528 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. In cases of distension the pain is severe, and of a neuralgic and intermittent character; but in the ordinary form of the disease, there is little more than an occasional sense of uneasiness and weight about the jaws, so indistinct as often to he no guide to the side on which the mischief exists. In the great majority of cases, empyema of the antrum depends upon inflam- mation of the lining membrane of the cavity, caused by the fangs of deca^’ed teeth, which, if not actually perforating the membrane, are in close proximity to it, either from unusual depth of the sockets or from absorption of the intervening, thiji portion of bone. It is possible, however, that the mischief may be set up by extension of catarrhal inflammation from the nose, by blows on the face, or even by the pressure during birth, in the case of an infant. A careful examination of the teeth will, in most cases, show which of them is in fault, and, though the first and second molars are those of which the fangs most frequently cause mischief of this kind, it must be remem- bered that the canine frequently, and the incisors more rarely, are connected with an unusually extensive antrum. The extraction of a decayed tooth or fang may he followed by an immediate discharge of pus, in which case an enlargement of the opening will probably be required; but frequently the tooth which has set up the mischief has been long extracted, and it then be- comes necessary to perforate the antrum above the alveolus. For this pur- pose a drill, a gimlet, or an ordinary trocar of medium size may he employed. If the bone happens to be thin, any instrument passes through readily, and the operator is aware that he has entered a cavity, and may, if he does not hold the perforator judiciously short, transfix it and come in contact with the orbital plate. But in many cases the bone is extremely dense, and the instrument is gripped so tightly that it is impossible, until it is withdrawn, to he sure that the cavity of the antrum has been reached. AVhether the perforation he made through or above the alveolus, an ordi- nary Eustachian catheter of silver or vulcanite will be found very convenient for washing out the antrum, and a simple India-rubber ear-syringe with a bullet-joint will be sufliciently powerful for the purpose. Ordinarily, fluid injected through the perforation flows readily from the nose, bringing away a quantity of more or less inspissated pus of offensive character; but occa- sionally the cavity of the abscess does not communicate with the nose, and the fluid must then be allowed to flow back by the perforation. The after-treatment of these cases consists in maintaining the aperture patent, which is often diflieult, until all purulent secretion has ceased; in washing out the cavity at least thrice daily with warm Condy’s fluid and water; and in throwing in a small quantity of stimnlating lotion, such as two grains of sulphate of zinc in a fluidounce of rose-water. When the opening is above the alveolus, there is little danger of particles of food entering the cavity, but when the opening is through the alveolus, food will readily pene- trate, unless an artificial denture be applied so as to cover the opening during mastication. AVhen a dental plate is employed, a silver tube should be fitted to the perforation so as to maintain its calibre, and thus the occasioijal intro- duction of a trocar, which would otherwise he necessary, may be dispensed with. Still, it must be allowed that the cure of empyema of the antrum is often very tedious, and that many months may elapse before a patient can dispense with daily ivashing out of the cavity. Since, as has already been said, distension of the antrum with facial deformity occurs only when the accumulating matter does not discharge into the nostril, it is easy to mistake a case of this kind for a solid tumor of the upper jaw, should the amount of distension not be sufficient to produce much thin- nino; and crackling of the bone. Again, it appeal’s possible that the fluid portion of the matter contained in the antrum may drain away, leaving be-