59 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. also be at once administered, and reiieated when necessary. If there have been no serious loss of blood, ivater alone should be given for the first forty- eight hours, or, at most, milk with lime-water. As has already been pointed out, even with no other lesion there is intense cerebral congestion, rendering the affected parts of the brain of an obviously darker hue in those cases where death from other causes permits post-mortem examination. This clearly indicates what is the chief danger of these cases—viz., a distinct predisposition to inflammation, and against this probable result all our efforts must be directed. My invariable rule has been to treat the slightest cases of cerebral concussion as serious, and though much complaint on the part of the patients has resvdted, I have never seen cause to regret the course pursued. Bleeding is never indicated in the stage of depression, and I have never had occasion to resort to it even in that of reaction. At a later period, rf there are marked delirium, fever, and flushed face, in a robust patient, bleeding from the arm or wet-cupping will prove beneficial. Some surgeons advise small doses of mercurials to afiect the system. I see no objection to their use. Bromide of potassium or the deodorized tincture of opium, in repeated small doses, is useful for excessive restlessness or wake- fulness. AVith the subsidence of the acute symptoms, or if exhaustion super- vene, a more generous diet must be prescribed, with a cautious resort to stimulants. During convalescence, tonics are sometimes useful. The recum- bent posture, gradually changed for the upright by pillows or a bed-rest, should lie enforced for at least ten days or two weeks after apparent convalescence has set in. II. Contusion of the Brain.—Bruising of the brain may be either circum- scribed—the more common variety—or disseminated. In the slighter forms of circumscribed contusion, the injured part is seen to be of a dark-purplish color, this coloration lieing dependent upon numerous, closely-set, minute s})ecks of extravasated blood no larger than pin-points. As the periphery of the eccliymosis is approached, the depth of coloration decreases, owing to the increasing dissemination of the minute extravasations. The cineri- tious portion of the brain is alone affected in this variety. The consistence of the brain seems but little, if at all, altered, as a gentle stream of water affects neither its color nor firmness. These remarks apply to an examina- tion made within a short time of the iiijury. Tdie more severe cases have the central portions of the eccliymosis infil- trated witli blood, so that they present a uniform, dark-purple color. Both the white and cineritious portions of the brain are involved. Instead of tlie pin-point exti'avasations, in the central portions, small clots of blood of varying size are found, while the periphery presents a series of smaller ex- travasations more and more widely separated. The cerebral structure is torn and disorganized, as shown by the eftects of the impact of even a gentle stream of water, which loosens and washes aivay the clots, “ leaving little pits with irregular and shaggy margins, and thickly studded throughout with pin-point extravasations.” (Hewett.) Examined a few days after the injury, the bruised part will be found to present an irregularlj^ depressed surface, with sharp, ragged borders. The surrounding brain-surface will be probably tinged yellow, with subordinate yellow circles surrounding the lesser extravasations. Either of these two forms of brain-contnsion may be found alone, but they much more commonly coexist in the same brain. In the slighter cases, the meslies of the pia mater contain more or less extravasated blood in tlie form of small clots. The visceral arachnoid, with the pia mater, are usually torn in the more severe cases, in which event the cavity of the arachnoid contains extravasated