40 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. cidently with a line of fracture pursuing the course which I have just descrihedd We thus see tliat free watery discharge from the ear may coincide with such a fracture as I have described, Avlien it is certainly cerebro-spinal fluid ; and that an ecpially free flow may take place with neither fracture nor injury to the internal ear. Of what value then in diagnosis are these watery ear dis- diarges? Although cases do occur where free watery discharge takes place Avith neither basal fracture nor injury to the internal ear, yet this symptom is uncpiestionably of great diagnostic value under certain circumstances. "When the flow is copious from the very outset, having commenced imme- diately after the accident, and not having been preceded by any hemorrhage from the ear, or Ijy hemorrhage in only very small amount, there is no doubt that it is an outpouring of cerebro-spinal fluid, escaping through a fractiu’e of the petrous bone, traversing the internal auditory meatus, and tearing the infundibular process of the meninges. Free and prolonged hemorrhage from the ear, succeeded by a ivatery dis- charge, is indicative of fracture of the petrous bone; but it does not necessa- rily follow that the fissure has traversed tlie internal auditory meatus. And it must be remembered, that, as Sir Prescott Ilewett has well said, “ it is not to the ivatory discharge that we can trust for our diagnosis, but to the copious and prolonged bleeding.”^ When, howevei', there is at first only a moderate flow of blood, Avhich persists for a short time and is folloAved by a watery discharge, variable as to time of ap})earance and amount, the value of the syni})tom is questionable. The watery flow may aiipear Avithin a feAV hours of tlie injury, and may then rapidly become profuse. As the floAV of blood is not enough in itself to be diagnostic, and as some of the facts Avhich I liaA^e mentioned go to sIioaa^ that a profuse Avatcry floAV may proceed from the ear Avithin a few hours of a head injury Avithout any fracture, Ave are not Avarranted in cases of this third class in diagnosing basal fracture merely from the aqueous floAV. The statement that free Avatery discharges after head-injuries belong to childhood and youth, is unquestionably an error. Prognosis.—Although often considered to be a fatal symptom, a number of recoveries haA'e been reported; and I luiA^e had one case under my own care, of undoubted basal fracture Avith Avatery discharge from the ear, where recovery took place. Nevertheless it is a very grave symptom. llVdery discharges from, the nose sometimes occur after head-injuries, but rarely as compared to similar floAvs from the ear. Blandin first reported a case of this kind in the year 1840, but the source of the flux Avas not satisfactoril}'^ made out. An examination of a case Avhich occurred five years later in the practice of M. llobert, revealed a tear of the dura mater about one inch in length over a fracture of the sella turcica. The visceral arachnoid covering the anterior lobes Avas also torn. As a proof of the source of the discharge, Avater dropt into the sella turcica soon tiltered through into the nasal cavity, cliieily emerging through the right nostril.^ Analysis of the fluid composing these nasal discharges proves it to be identical in composition Aviththe cerebro-spinal fluid, and a moment’s reflection Avill shoAV hoAV readily large quantities of this might be poured ' Robert (loc. cit.) records a second case of careful dissection of a fracture of the petrous bone— watery fluid having been discharged by the ear during life—where a tear of the infundibular pro- cess of the arachnoid at tire bottom of the internal auditory meatus was detected. 2 Erichsen reports a fracture of the external auditory meatus from a blow on the condyle of the jaw, where many ounces of blood flowed from the ear. This is however very unusual. 3 Loc. cit., p. 417. M. L. Brown reports in the Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Dec. 29, 1881, p. 610, an example of watery nasal discharge in a case where, after death, a fracture implicating the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone was detected.