G95 CHROXIC LARYNGITIS. the eoiuniissure between the vocal hands anteriorly. In a single instance—■ submitted for consultation by Dr. Smith, of Frederick, iMaryland—the fetid laryngo-tracheal disease was associated with fetid rhino-pharyngitis. Similar instances have been cited by Fraenkel,^ Moure,- and others. Chorditis tuberosa is the term applied by Tuerck^ to designate a chronic inhammation of the vocal bands, characterized by minute whitish tumors or nodules on their upper surface. It seems to he peculiar to singers. In many instances the lesion is unilateral, the left hand being affected most frequently. Its pathology is as yet conjectural. Local congestions, resulting from special vocal efforts during mild attacks of catarrhal laryngitis, may start local hyper- plasias, terminating in permanent nodulations. Chronic Hypertrophic Laryngitis.—Occasionally in cases of non-constitu- tional origin, but more frequently in those dependent on tuberculosis and on syphilis, the tissues undergo hypertrophy. The lower or muscular structure of the vocal bands is the most frequent seat of this process, which sometimes induces sufficient constriction to demand tracheotomy. Chronic tuberculous laryngitis, in most instances eventually an ulcerative lesion, and frequently productive of perichondritis and necrosis, especially of the arytenoid cartilages, is usually due to secondary tuberculous infiltration. As inspected laryngoscopically, the pathologic processs in individuals with rapidly caseating pidmonary lesions, begins in a congestive catarrhal laryngitis, leading within a few weeks to the development of minute, non-suppurative ulcerations, upon the posterior surface of tlie epiglottis and elsewhere. These multiple ulcerations extend both in depth and in periphery, two or moi’e coalescing when sufficiently close together, and then exciting contiguous sup- purative ulceration in the adjoining tissues. Great swelling of tlie epiglottis gradually supervenes in many instances, and is in its turn sometimes followed by intumescence in the ventricular and vocal bands, and in the inter-aryte- noid and aryteno-epiglottic folds. Ulceration, tuberculous and suppurative, takes place in some of these swollen tissues, particularly in the epiglottis, the arytenoidal extremities of the vocal hands, the internal face of the arytenoid cartilage, and the inter-arytenoidal fold ; but it may take place anywhere. In the more sluggish cases of pnlmonary tuberculosis, beginning in localized pneumonitis, the earliest pathological manifestation in the larynx is ]»allor of the mucous membrane. Following this, the sharp outlines of the individual features of the larynx gradually undergo characteristic thickening, especially at jioints where lymphoid tissues predominate. The most marked manifesta- tion is over the siqu’a-arytenoid cartilages, whose sharply-defined, prismoidal outlines undergo transformation into pyriform swellings (Fig. 1061); tlie base of the morbid tumefaction occupying the apex of the normal structure, and tapering forwards along the fold stretching from the arytenoid cartilage to the epiglottis. The epiglottis sometimes liecomes several times as thick as wlien normal. In the inter-arytenoid fold the tumefaction is sometimes ditfuse, sometimes circumscribed. When circumscribed, it may be in an unbroken, spheroidally curved mass, or in a mass with Fig. 1054. Pyriform swellings of tuberculous laryngitis. ' Ziemssen’s Cyclopiedia, vol. iv. p. 140. ® Revue Meiisuelle de Laryngologie, etc., Juiii, 1883, p. 102. ^ Up. cit., S. 164.