000 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. ridiculed this doctrine, and concluded: (1) that air could not really be thus admitted into the cavity of the abdomen, and (2) that even if freely admitted it was inca})able of producing the dreadful effects wliich had been ascribed to it. With the substitution of “ germs in the air,” for “ atmospheric air,” the old scare is still existing, and the antiseptic spray is the antidote thereof. But as, from the most recent statistics of abdominal operations, performed with and witliout tlie spray, there is scarcely a fraction of difference in the results, and one is at a loss to know on which side the advantage really is, there is good reason to think that Bell’s observations' respecting atmospheric air and its inffuence on these operations, ma}’ be applied with equal force to the modern theory. But though the admission of air has not the evil influence imputed to it, the inflammation of the peritoneum which it is supposed to excite, does too often occur from other causes, and that too whether there be injury to the viscera or not. It has been written that a discourse on wounds of the abdo- men must be a discourse on inflammation of that cavity, and on the various waj's in which it is produced. Though this happily is a great exaggera- tion, it yet must be acknowledged that the slightest scratch or wound of the ])ei’itoneum, may, under some circumstances and in certain constitutional states, excite general peritonitis. As a rule, however, the inflammation excited by wounds results from some injury to the viscera, and from the escape,, into the cavity of the peritoneum, of some fluid or foreign sulistance which even the active, absorbent power of that membrane cannot remove. A limited amount of inflammation, such as fortunately follows the majority of simple wounds of the peritoneum, terminates in union by adhesion ; and this purely local process rapidly heals the injury, without giving rise to any syiuptoms or causing any disturhance within the abdomen. But it sometimes happens that the inflammation, instead of being restricted to the lips of the wound, extends very widely over the surtace of the peritoneum. It is the tendency of inflammation when it attacks a shut sac, no matter how slight the cause, nor how small the area flrst affected, to run rapidly over the whole of its surface; and it is this tendency which gives the danger to peritonitis: (1) because of the lai’ge number of organs necessaiy to life, which are covered by the peritoneum and are thus affected by the inflammation of that membrane, and (2) because of the extent of this serous membrane and of the irritation excited by the pi’oducts of its inflammation. In a wound of the. abdomen, as in one of the pleura, pericardium, a large joint, or a large vein, the inflammation spreads widely over the lining mem- lirane, if its surfaces are not brought into contact, so that they can adhere; on the other hand, if the wounded surfaces touch each other, the inflammation is limited by its own adhesive tendency. Thus it is tliat inflammation of the peritoneum, though the chief cause of danger in simple penetrating wounds of the abdomen, is also the only means of cure, by causing adhesion of surfaces ami closure of the wound. Constitutional disposition and visceral degeneration influence the character of local inflammation, wherever situated ; and there is, probably, an essential difference between the circumscribed, salutary in- flammation which closes a wound, and the pernicious and too often fatal inflammation which spreads indeflnitely by continuity. The symptoms, diagnosis, pathology, and treatment of traumatic peritonitis liave been already fully described, so that there is no occasion to refer further to the subject hero. How severe a wound, even of the lacerated kind, and involving a large tract of peritoneum, may be entirely and quickly * Discourse.s on tlie Nature and Cure of Wounds, 3d ed., p. 347.