SURGERY OF THE TEETH AN!) ADJACENT PARTS. 652 an indication demanding tlie lancet.” Lancing in such cases, if properly per- formed, yields almost instantaneous and complete relief. The incision should be made with reference to the shape of the tooth ; thus, for any of the anterior teeth, either above or below, the cut should be made on a line with the cutting edge of the tooth, and deep enough to strike the enamel. For the canine teeth and those posterior to them, the crucial incision is better, making the lines diagonal to the jaw rather than parallel or at right angles witli it. Undue hemorrhage need not be apprehended. The loss of a little blood is ordinarily rather to be desired than otherwise. Extraction of Deciduous Teeth.—The mere removal of a temporary tooth when dentition is proceeding regularly, and the period has arrived for it to be shed, is an operation of minor character. In normal dentition, the waste of roots and surrounding processes goes on relatively and simultaneously with the advance of permanent successors, and, without interference, the temporary crown will literallj^ be shed from the gum ; but abnormal second dentition is of such frequent occurrence, together with diseases which attack the crowns and roots, that extraction in advance of shedding is often demanded. If there be no disease, such as a painful pulp exposed by caries, or an ulceration or abscess following such exposure, it is unwise to remove a tem- porary tooth, unless its permanent successor is emerging from the gum beyond the boundary line of the dental arch. The normal order is to follow and succeed to the exact position occupied by the temporary tooth. The abnor- mal is an emergence from the gum, either within or without the arch, while the temporary tooth is still in place. As soon as such abnormality is dis- covered, extraction of the deciduous tooth should be immediate. The extraction of deciduous teeth that have remained firm in the jaw after the period of shedding has been reached without any evidence of the emergence of their successors, is not indicated. Sometimes a permanent tooth never erupts, and the sacrifice of a deciduous tooth which has occupied its position is an irrecoverable loss. It is very common for there to be a want of development or increase in the size of the jaw, commensurate with the demand for more room which the growth of large permanent teeth, to occupy the place of their small predeces- sors, demands. The result is an apparent necessity for removing two tempo- rary teeth to make room for one jjerrnanent tooth. This is frequently the case as the six front teeth in either jaw are erupting, and whenever the difii- culty has been met by extracting two teeth to make room for one, it has almost inevitably created a crowding out of line, and an irregularity in the perma- nent dental arch. Only in very rare and exceptional cases should such a procedure be adopted, and it is especially desirable that each of the canine teeth should be retained unti the certainty of the eruption of its successor has been assured. When it becomes necessary to extract the deciduous molars long in ad- vance of their period of shedding, care should be taken that the alveolar pro- cess be not grasped in the forceps, lest the germ or partly-developed crown of the permanent tooth should be included and removed, which would be an irre- parable injury. The premature extraction of temporary teeth has been strenu- ously opposed by some, because it has been believed that contraction or shrink- age of the jaw would follow; but this view has been found to be fallacious, because the maxillae develop quite independently of the teeth. The teeth, it will be remembei’ed, grow upon, not out of, the jawbone, and the alveolar processes form and increase about the roots of the advancing teeth. Alveolar processes grow tq> with the teeth, and are absorbed and waste away when