STRICTURE OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 681 Letierts^ succeeded in closing a sypliilitic fistula of the larynx by perform- ing a tracheotomy for coexisting stenosis in such a manner so as to include the fistulous opening, scraping the edges clean, treating the disease which produced the lesion, and then removing the cauula. Agnew,^ in a case remaining after suicidal wound, cut a long rectangular flap of skin, turned it upon itself so as to be able to adapt the distal raw surface to the freshened edges of the gap, and thus plugged the orifice. Large fistulie do not appear to be amenable to obliterative treatment. They are to be covered Avith compresses or pads, concealed beneath the collar and neck-cloth. Stricture of the Larynx and Trachea. Stricture of the larynx and trachea, technically knoAvn as stenosis, is either extrinsic or intrinsic. Sometimes the tAVO conditions coexist.^ One organ or both may be implicated; and there may be more than one point of constric- tion, Avhether in the larynx or in the trachea. Extrinsic stricture is due to involution of the Avails by pressure outside of the aerial canal—compression- stenosis—Avhether produced by foreign body, by localized emphj'sema, by cer- vical abscess, by enlarged thyroid, thymus, or cervical or bronchial lymphatic Fig. 1045. Fig. 104G. Compression and deflection of trachea hy cervical Canula in position three months after operation : reces.. tumor : sterno-rnastoid retracted to show trachea 2^ siou of tumor and trachea towards median line. (Janney.) inches to left of median line, and 2*4 inches helow integument. (Janney.) glands, by cicatricial tissue, hy morbid groAvth—cervical, oesophageal, or mediastinal—by aneurism, or by disease of the A^ertelira^, sternum, or chiAdcle. In cases ot cervical tumor or aliscess, the trachea may l»e pushed far out of line, as in a remarkable case, as yet mii)ublished (Figs. 1045 and 1046), under the care of Dr. .Janney, of riiiladelphia. Intrinsic stricture—occlasion-stenosis—is due to congenital malformation or ' Lnc. cit., p. 5(J. 2 Med. and Surg. Rep., April, 1873, p. 316. 3 For example, see Aslihurst’s case of Fistula. Med. and Surg. Rep., August 14, 1880, p. 142.