89 CEREBRAL LOCALIZATION. prebend a certain extent of brain-tissue, neighboring centres to those chiefly injured will give rise to symptoms confusing the diagnosis. The paralysis is opposite to the side of lesion. The following combinations are those usually met with: Paralysis of face and aphasia. Aphasia and palsy of the Fig. 831. B 55mTrt R Diagram showing localization of cerebral nerve-centres and determination of line of Rolando. (Modified from Liicas-Championni6re.) arm. Paralysis of the arm and face. Paralysis of the upper and lower ex- tremities. The palsies are more apt to be limited than those of pathological origin. Thus oftentimes the upper extremity is alone affected. Again, in- complete motor paralysis may alone be detected. They often vary in their intensity, according to the greater or less degree of inflammatory compli- cation, or the amount of compression. Spontaneous cures of tx’aumatic paralysis are very rare, although it may inqxrove up to a certain point. More often it increases, and merges its phenomena with those of secondary paralysis. Secondary hemorrhage into inflamed or softened Ixrain-tissue, probably accounts for certain cases of paralysis of intermediary origin. After operation, the paralysis may either suddenly or gradually disap})ear, but the inflammatory phenomena pass away only gradually. In some rare instances the pai'alysis disappears or diminishes after operation, onl}^ to return at a later period, and to be followed by atrophy. Here the cerelxritis has gone on to secondary atropliy instead of to re]»air. Thus it is clear that iri’itation and compression of a centre not only suppress its function, but may lead to secondary degeneration, whence the advisability of active interference whenever the functions of a centre are distinctly involved. Ti’aumatic palsies are usually complete at the outset. They are often pre- ceded, followed by, or alternated with convulsions. The convulsions are not often general at first. They usually commence in one limb. When they become more extended, there is commonly an aggravation of the general con- dition. Sometimes the |)aralyzed member is afone affected; at other times it is uninvolved. Generalized convulsions closely resemble those of epilepsy, and