SIMPLE TUMORS. 839 and the “ cystoid-adenocele” of Birkett—but these may be more properly classilied in refei’euce to the special forms of growth which are contained in them. (1) Single Cysts.—Single cysts may occur at any part of the breast, but are most common in the region of the nipple, or in the snljstance of the gland near it. The contents of these cysts vary: they may consist of clear serum, of serum mixed with blood, or of a fluid, brown or yellow with scales of cholesterin. I have occasionally seen the fluid of a greenish color. The walls of the cyst are generally thin, and occasionally they undergo cal- cifleatioii. These cysts may occur in married or unmarried women, but they are more frequent in the former. Their size varies from that of a small marble to that of a large orange. One case is recorded, of a cyst from which nine pounds of serum were evacuated. A very common size is that of a small walnut. ■ Inflammation and suppuration of these cysts have been recorded, but they are rare. Diagnosis.—There is a circumscribed swelling, regular in shape, fluctuating, and unattended with any inflammatory signs or any marked hardness of the surrounding breast-structure. The feeling of fluctuation is not always dis- tinct, as the cyst may be tense, forming a Arm and somewhat elastic tumor. These cysts may be superficial, and in such cases the skin becomes gradually thinned over them, so that the swelling can be seen to be more or less traiis})a- rent. In some cases there is a discharge from the nipple in connection Avith this condition. As it is sometimes not easy to distinguish these cysts from solid growths, a fine trocar or aspirator-needle may be introduced in order to decide the question. The tendency of these cysts is to increase sloAvly in size if not interfered with ; occasionally, however, they increase rapidly. Treatment.—Puncture and evacuation of the contents of the cyst, and afterwards pressure over its cavity. If there should be any thickening (fl' the tissues round the cyst, the application of a blister over the SAvelling is usually beneficial. If simple puncture and counter-irritation fail to cure the cyst, it is best treated by means of a small incision with antiseptic precautions, and the introduction of a drainage-tube. In puncturing these cysts it is important to fix them with the fingers, because, when movable and tense, the trocar or needle may fail to enter the cavity if this precaution be not adopted. Exci- sion of a single cyst is rarely required. (2) Multiple Cysts.—Two varieties of these are met Avith; one in Avhicli numerous cysts varying in size are scattered through the sulistance of the gland, and the other in Avhich two, three, or more large cysts exist, and are grouped together. In the former, there is usually some thickening of the breast-structure in the neighborhood of the cysts; and in the latter, the glandular structure has usually partially or Avholly disappeared. The con- tents of multiple cysts vary, and are similar to those met Avith in single cysts. Dia.gnosis.—There is a nodulated, irregular condition of the lu’east—the nodules being felt as small, firm, elastic SAvellings, in Avhich, on careful manipu- lation, fluctuation can usually be detected—Avith some thickening and knot- ting of the breast structiu’e. Or there is a SAvelling, irregular in shape, Avith distinct and separate fluctuation at more than one point, and moi-e or less absence of the gland-snbstance. There is sometimes a discharge from the nipple, and in some cases the skin is thinned, and shoAvs transparency. As in the case of the single cyst, the tendency of the multiple cyst is to increase in size, and it occasionally becomes inflamed and sujipurates. Treatment.—In the case of a tumor composed of tAvo or three large cysts, and confined to one portion of the breast, an attempt should be maile to cause their obliteration by incision and careful drainage; but Avhen the cysts