318 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. counter-irritation behind the ear (tincture of iodine every night, or cantharidal collodion every tiftli or sixth day), and even sometimes local blood-letting (one or two leeches in front of the tragus).. If the ati'ection still remains stubborn, and if the patient can afford to take such a trip, I urge the advan- tages of a decided change in climate, scene, and diet, for a period of a few weeks. This pleasant ]^^)rescription has, in my experience, repeatedly accom- plished what my local measures have been powerless to effect. The dryness afforded by a decidedly sandy soil, and the protection from strong winds conferred by pine forests, are two important features to be sought after in the selection of such a temporary place of residence. But if these peculiarities of soil and surroundings can only be obtained at the cost of considerable personal discomfort, such as is caused by a poor diet, uncomfortable living quarters, and an uncongenial social atmosphere, I think that a mere pleasure trip, in which the exhilarating effects of travel constitute the chief curative factor, should be given the preference. This is the proper point at which to consider the question, how far our treatment should be modified when we find the middle ear filled with a serous or mucoid exudation. This state of things, which is commonly termed otitis media serosa^ or otitis media mucosa^ naturally suggests the propriety of incis- ing the membrana tympani, and evacuating the fluid contents of the middle ear through the artificial opening thus established. The operation is not usually a difficult one, and the immediate results of evacuating the fluid are often brilliant, but, unfortunately, they are very apt to be of only short duration. The fluid returns; a fresh impetus is given by the incision to the tympanic irritation; and we find, after the lapse of a few days, that the patient is in precisely tlie same condition as that in which he was at the time when the operation was jierformed. At tlie present time I very rarely resort to para- centesis of the membrana tympani for tlie relief of the condition now under consideration; and my impression is, that the best authorities, at least in the United States, hold very nearly the same views that I do witli regard to the efficacy of this procedure. The presence- of serum or mucus in the drum- cavity is one of the legitimate phenomena of an acute, catarrhal inflammation of tlie middle ear, and calls for no material modification of the treatment commonly adopted in cases of that affection. The ojieration of paracentesis of the membrana tympani will be described hereafter, under the head of Acute Purulent Inflammation of the Middle Ear. The term chronic catarrh of the middle ear is very commonly applied to a variety of conditions, which are probably quite distinct from each other in their mode of origin and nature, but which are characterized by the same train of symptoms, viz., progressive deafness, subjective noises in the ears, and an intact drum-membrane. Eor purposes of convenience, we may roughly divide these eases into three groups. In the first, we may place those cases which are cha- racterized by evidences of congestion and infiltration of the mucous membrane of the middle ear, associated with a similar condition of the naso-pharyngeal mucous membrane. Chronic^ hyioertrojduc, catarrhal inflammation of the middle ear would be a proper expression to employ in designating these cases. The characteristic features of the second group of cases are these; a very transparent membrana tympani, revealing quite clearly the lower end of the long process of the anvil, the dark niche of the fenestra rotunda, and the intervening whitish region of the promontory; an apparently unobstructed Eustachian tube; and,"finally, a perfectly smooth, or slightly ridged, pale, thin |)haryngeal mucous membrane, traversed perhaps by two or tliree dilated, superficial veins. A process of atrophy and sclerosis will explain all of these appearances, and we may therefore designate the cases belonging to this