772 INJURIES ANI) DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. l)loo(l into the air-passage. Being without personal exj)erience in tlie opera- tion, it is impossible for mo to do more than express a theoretical preference for the former plan. S[»litting the larynx before exsection has been occa- sionally practised, but does not ap})car to he in much favor. Another mooted point concerns the disposition to be made of the epiglottis. Inde- [tendent of any (piestion as to the likelihood of carcinoma recurring in this structure, its retention, according to some operators, does not appear requisite for any purpose. The larynx being removed, the ostensible functions of the epiglottis seem to he better performed hj- the root of the tongue. A retained e[)iglottis interferes, too, with the adjustment of an artificial lai’ynx. On the other hand, its retention is said to guard to a certain extent against the descent of food into the air-passage, whether natural or artificial. The weight of testimony seems to indicate the pi-opriety of sacrificing the epi- glottis in all cases of carcinoma, and in all others in which an artificial laiynx is to be used. Under special conditions even more tissue may be saved. Thus Gussen- bauer,’ in his fourth case, spared the mucous membrane at the top of the larynx, “in its connection with the ary-epiglottic ligament and the epiglottis,” thus limiting tlie exsection to the cartilages and their muscles. In this way he hoped to prevent descent of the top of the cesophagus. The patient was able to drink his coffee on the third morning Avithout any escape of the liquid externally, and to bear the introduction of an artificial larynx on the four- teenth day. In the absence of personal observation, the description of the operatiA’e procedure here gUen is only a deatl-house and library study, and lacks the precision and confidence of an operator. Yet it may he said that Avhile its principal features are common to all laryngectomies, individualities are presented so frequently as to necessitate departures which are undeterminable beforehand. Wlien at all practicable, a Ioav tracheotomy should he performed two Aveeks or longer before the extiiqiation. SeA^eral important objects are accomplished thereby. The patient Avill haA^e got accustomed to breathing through a mechanical appliance. Ilis general strength Avill have become invigorated by increased facility in respiration. lie can more conveniently and readily be anaesthetized through the artificial opening. The trachea Avill have become adherent to the integument, and Avill require no artificial support to prcA^ent its descent Avhen the larynx is severed from it. The lungs haAfing become accustomed to air received through an artificial opening, pneumonia from this source Avill he less likely to folloAv. Gussenhauer, lioAvever, does not deem it essential that tracheotomy should long precede the laryngectomy, and considers that a tracheal Avound, such as is made in a Ioav tracheotomy, when in the immediate vicinity of a laryngectomy AVOund, can only he regarded as a complication. Although admitting that this objection does not apply to the Avound of a high tracheotomy, Avhich eventually unites Avith the loAA^er end of the laryngectom}' Avound, he says that the tissues in the middle line become so infiltrated and so conglomerated that they are less readily recognized, and that their condition may complicate the detachment of the soft tissues and make hemorrhage more serious. lie believes that, as the rule, high tracheotomy Avith horizontal severance of the tracliea, as the initial ste}> in the actual laiyngectomy, fully suffices to facili- tate undisturbed completion of the o})eration, and to alloAV secure fixation of the trachea by sutures. Should the operation be performed Avithout a preliminary tracheotomy some • Lop. cit.