SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. 1079 are not agreed ; some, indeed, thiidv that both conditions may exist at once, hut that under such circumstances the tubercular take precedence of and excite the inflammatory changes. However this may be, much the same results follow. The body of the kidney is eidarged, and becomes lohulated by the extension of cheesy inflltration into the cortical parts of the organ; and, on section, conical masses of this cheesy material in diflerent stages of softening are found to correspond with the prominences of the lobules. The pelvis of the kidney, and its ureter, are contracted h}’ the thickening of their mucous and submucous membranes; and at a later period the mucous membrane ulcerates, and the lumen of the tube is choked by the softened, caseous or putty- like substance which escapes into it. Thus, often, both the mucous memljrane lining the pelvis and infundibulum, and the secreting and tubular substance of the kidney, are atfected; and the organ is converte<i into a huge abscess- cavity, or into a series of large irregular abscess-cavities with softened, caseous or puriform debris for contents. These contents readily wash away and leave exposed, white, shaggy, ulcerated Avails, in Avhich there is scarcely any, if any, renal structure traceable. In some cases, where only one organ is involved, the kidney becomes a mere shrunken, putty-like mass, in Avhich abundance of cholesterine or calcareous nodules are formed in tlie lobulated spaces. This affection often has a chronic course, and certainly has a much less tendency to spread along the ureter, or to affect simultaneously other organs, than has the disseminated tubercular disease. Strumous pyelitis attacks chiefly, that is, essentially, the calyces and pyramids ; Avhereas tuber- culosis begins in the cortex and tends to spread rapidly to the rest of the urinary and genito-urinary organs. Syniptoms.—Disseminated tuberculosis of the kidney jn’oduces no character- istic sym}itoms referable to the kidney. In the eai’ly stages of strumous IPjelitis the constitutional symptoms are not marked, and the local sym})toms are absent. As the disease adAuinces there is }iain in the loin, Avith tenderness on pressure in the lumbar region. The urine may not be altered in quantity or character; or it may be excessive in quantity, in the early stage, and albu- minous, alkaline, or acid, sometimes bloody or containing pus, minute cheesy masses, and debris of renal tissue, in tlie later stages. When it contains albu- men the urine is ahvays thick, cloudy, or opaque, and not clear as in Bright’s disease; moreover, it never contains casts of the renal tubes. Occasionally there is suppression of urine, more or less complete, and then urannic symp- toms usher in the fatal termination. Often a tumor can he felt, or there is a greatly increased area of renal dulness ; and if the disease be on the left side, the spleen may he so much pushed fonvaixl as at first sight to give the im- pression that the tumor is an enlargement of that orgaiu I have seen this mistake committed more than once ; and in one instance in Avhicli there AA'ere no marked urinary changes, and in Avhich the patient had suffered from ague, and a small ague-cake existed, the displaced spleen com^tletely masked the large scrofulous kidney from Avhich the Avoman ultimately died. Vesical irritation in some cases has been the most prominent, and a most distressing symptom. A man Avas under my care, Avho, for Aveeks before bis death, passed Avatcr Avith much pain and spasm, on an average IGO times in 24 hours. At the post-mortem exjunination, there Avas found scrofulous dis- ease of the kidneys and ureter, hut the liladder Avas quite unaffected. In the advanced stages, there are marked rigors and exhausting sAAmats, or hectic. The tenq»erature may be such as is seen in ague or hectic, or there may he intermittent peilods of high fever, lasting for tAvo, three, or four con- secutive days, and folloAved Ijy as many days o"f slightly elcAuited but not pyrexial teiii[)erature. tJnless a tumor exists,or the characteristic cheesy debris is found in the urine, it is ditlicult, if not impossible, l)y the synq)toms alone.