564 SURGERY OF THE TEETH AND ADJACENT PARTS. attachment to the plates. Teeth and gums are made of the same material, the ditierence in coloring being due to enamels. These moulded forms are subjected to a heat of more than 2000° F., to vitrity them and develop their coloi's. There are four chief varieties of artificial denture, according to the prin- ciple upon which they are inserted and sustained, viz : (1) Pivot-teeth ; (2) Plates with clasps; (3) Plates sustained by atmospheric pressure; and (4) Plates of simple adaptation. A PIVOT-TOOTH is a single artificial crown, secured by a pivot to a natural root, and only applicable where the crown of a tooth is gone, and where a sound and healthy root, to which the artificial crown can be attached, remains in the jaw. The use of pivot-teeth is of very ancient date, going back to classic times, and possibly earlier. A generation since they fell into disuse, but within a few years have been revived, and, under a score of ditferent names, but applying the same principle, are now extensively inserted. "Whei-e roots are sound and in a perfectly healthy condition, the adaptation of pivot-teeth is, when skilfully executed, without exception the most convenient and most useful for the patient. Formerly the tooth was simply fitted to the root, which was cut off close to the gum, and secured by a pivot of wood, gene- rally of condensed hickory. This plan fell into disuse, because the junction was never so perfect but that the fluids of the mouth would act upon the root, causing decay and loosening the pivot, when in a short time the crown would become useless. At the present day, there is one plan which is entitled aljove all others to a claim of superiority. It is to fit a thin, narrow band, or ferule, accurately around the stump, and to push it just under the edge of the gum, and to this ferule to attach the artificial crown by solder- ing. Tlie ferule protects the joint and prevents decay. Additional strength is also given to the crown by screwing it to the root. Another variation of much value is to make the entire crown of gold, hollow like a shell, and fitted to and over a stump. This method is not applicable to the front part of the mouth, because the crowns have the appearance of solid gold, but for the bicuspids and molars it is a very valuable form of restoration. Still another variation of this plan may be used sometimes with excellent results when two or three teeth are missing. In such cases two crowns are secured to the roots, as above described, but they are also connected with each other by a bridge or bar, to which are attached the other missing teeth. Thus two sound roots may be made to support the crowns of several others. The advan- tages of pivot-teeth arc cleanliness, security, utility, and the absence of any covering to the natural gums. Plates avith clasps are applicable to either jaw, when there are two or more remaining teetli separated from each other and firm in their sockets. This is the best plan (where plates, as a base upon Avhich to set the teeth, must be used) that can he devised, wherever admissible. The plate which bears the artificial teeth is sustained by clasj)ing to the natural ones. Objec- tions have been made against clasped plates, that the teeth are injured which sustain them, but this objection loses all its force when the work is skilfully executed. It is only bungling and ill-fitting clasps and plates that do the damage. The advantages are that greater security is given than with other forms of plates, and that a less surface of the gum is covered. Plates held by atmospheric pressure are the last resort for an upper denture when all the natural teeth are gone. There is then no other plan which can be resorted to which is not more objectionable, and therefore uune-