ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 1031 > Blit. Med. Journal, May 21, 1881, p. 793. adhesion behind the uterus. The left ovary liad been perceptible through the abdomi- nal wall during life. luliammation set up by puerperal causes, involves the entire ovary, thougli, perhaps, the stroma only is affected at first. When excited hy causes other than puerperal, it is frequently limited to the follicles of the gland. There are thus three conditions in which abscess is seen: (1) In puerperal cases, suppuration being set up equally throughout, tlie ovaty is quickly converted into a pus-cyst. Of the other two conditions, the one is in most cases possibly but the earlier stage of the other. (2) Sometimes, as in the case referred to above,^ the ovary suppurates at various points, several small collections of pus being seen on section. If one of these, not larger, it ma}^ he, than the rest, is near the surface of tlie ovary, periovaritis maj- he excited, purulent Ijmiph may be deposited Upon the organ, and ulceration or sloughing at some minute point may cause an explosion of fatal peritonitis. Here tlie suppuration has begun in the separate follicles of the ovary, and death has ensued before the several purulent depots have coalesced so as to form one considerable abscess. (3) In other cases, the fatal result does not take place until the various suppurating foci have united into a single abscess, and a large part of the organ has become a mere shell or cyst,^lilled with offensive pus. Either of the two latter conditions may he met with, whether the abscess has a tuberculous or a simple inflammatory origin. Sometimes the fatal termination is delayed until the abscess has expanded to such con- siderable dimensions as to he detected, on })alpation during life, through the abdominal walls. Sometimes the inflammation in the ovaiy leads to occlu- sion and dilatation of the Fallopian tube of the same side; and the two together give idse to a swelling still more marked on vaginal or rectal examination, if not through the parietes of the abdomen. It is a common thing for the affected ovary to become agglutinated to one or several (jf the pelvic organs, or to the small intestines, ap}>endix cteei, sigmoid flexure, or pelvic parietes. The adhesions thus formed often give rise to circumscribed sj>aces within the peritoneal cavity, and these, hy recurring inflammatory attacks, become abscess-cavities, into one of which the abscess may hurst. In other cases the ovarian abscess hursts into one of the adherent viscera, and thns may dis- charge itself externally through the vagina, rectum, or hladdei-. In otlier cases, again, it hursts into the general peritoneal cavity, hut the inflammatory thickening of the peritoneal coat of the ovary often prevents this luippening for a long time, if not altogether. The abscess may burrow beneath adhe- sions within the peritoneum, in addition to bursting throtigh a pelvic viseus ; and hy the agglutination of the structures iu the pelvis the ureter may he so conqu’essed, inflamed, and thickened, as to lead to the same consequences to tlie kidney as are so often caused hy stricture of the urethra, cancer of the uterus, etc. The following case is in point:— A married woman, aged 33, was admitted into the Middlesex Hospital, under the care of Dr. Powell, on November 3, 1882, for what was siqiposed to be strumous pye- litis. After two months of extreme illness she died ; and at the post-mortem examina- tion the left ovary was found adherent to the rectum and tissues around. It contained a dark, blackish tract of inflammation, and was in communication with the rectum by a small sinus which opened into an abscess within the gland. This abscess was also in communication with a sinus wdiich passed above the bladder, beneath some coils of intes- tine which were closely adlierent to that viseus, and on separating which the sinus was exposed. This sinus ended in a cul-de-sac, formed by the right ovary and some adlie- sions around it, and contained pus. The great omentum was adherent to the pei itoneum of the pelvis. Besides the communication between the ovarian abscess and the rectum,