STRABISMUS. 261 investigate tlie relative muscular strength in liyperopes, where convergent strabismus does not exist, Ulrich concludes that all patients with hv[»eropia, who do not squint, liave iiisuthciency of the internal recti muscles. Tills original difference in muscular balance would seem to account for the fact that a blind eye, in course of time, will sometimes converge, at others diverge, and at others remain straight. The same explanation applies to the occasional occurrence of either convergent or divergent squint in emmetropes. Even liyperopes sometimes become victims of divergent strabismus. I am treating a young man who, when he came to me, had a divergence of ten mm., and who habitually tixed with the right eye, for all distances. In that eye he was mjmpic three dioptrics (twelve inches). Of course his vision for distance Avas very imperfect, and he had never woiti glasses. AVith a correcting concave glass, the remote vision was perfect. To my surprise, wlien tlie right eye was covered, and the divergent, left eye brought to bear, his distant sight was found perfect, and the eye emmetropic. Yet he constantly tixed Avith the riglit eye and su]»pressed the image of the left, seeing very poorly at a distance, and reading Avell and exclusively Avith the myopic right eye. I have frequently seen patients Avitli one near-sighted and one long-range eye. But they fix distant objects Avith the one and read Avith the other. How shall avo account for the remarkable exception presented in this case? I can explain it by siq)posing that, Avhen the strabismus de\mlopcd ten years ago, both eyes Avere emmetropic and equal in A'ision. But the paUent learned to fix constantly Avith the right eye, and to suppress the image of the left. At last myopia developed in the eye constantly used, and the old habit of exclusively fixing Avitb it persisted, lie remembers that distant vision has Itecome veiw much impaired in the last three years. I have divided in succession both external recti, and haA^e thus greatly reduced the degree of divergence. Since the last operation he has learned to fix distant objects Avith the left eye, Avhile he still reads Avith the right, having gained very greatly in range of vision. By an adA^aneement of the internal rectus of one eye, I expect to correct the remaining divergence. A long experience has tauglit me that insufficiency of the interni is one of the most tronlfiesome complications in non-sqninting hypero})Cs. In them AA'C have to combat muscular and accommodative astheno})ia at the same time. Etiologif of Divergent Strabismus.—In the great majority of cases, diverg- ence of the eyes is seen in m^mpic subjects. In these, the increased size of the globe antero-pasteriorl}', is caused by bulging of the back part of the eye. The direction of this staphyloma posticum is such as to favor the power of the externi. Such persons have little use for their accommodation. Hence convergence is not dominated by the focusing impulse, as in other forms of refraction. Myopes of high degree must bring objects very near in order to see them sharply. The resulting, painful degree of convergence, unaided by impulses of accommodation, cannot lie maintained for })rotracted, close Avork. 80011 one or the otlier eye turns outAvards, and monocular vision is ado}ited. The amount of myopia, as Avell as the acuity of vision, often differs in the tAvo eyes, making prolonged binocular fixation still more difficult. The most myopic and defective soon yields to the pressing tendency, and diverges. But here again some other factor, besides the state of refraction, is required to explain the occasional presence of myopia Avithout divergent, or even Avith convergent, strabismus. The original, relative lengtli and strcngtli of the externus and of the internus, have something to do in bringing aliout stra- bismus. The chanter on the etioloary of strabismus, in all its details, is not yet Avritten. TreaTxAient of Strabismus.—It is Avell to remember that some cases of squint recover spontaneously. In my observation, hoAvever, such cases are very rare.