1042 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. daughter bladders are, for the most part, either metamorphosed or imper- fectly developed scolices,-which, in their turn, may give rise to true heads.'’ The fluid in -which these vesicles float is limpid and alkaline, of specific gravity 1007-1009, containing no urea, and l)ut a trace of, if any, albumen; the presence of a large quantity of common salt, causes it to throw down a copious white precipitate Avith a solution of nitrate of silver. It may con- tain echinococci, or the booklets of the echinococcus-heads, or shreds of the equally characteristic striated hydatid-membrane; but even Avithout these structures, the h^nlatid fluid is distinguished by its chemical composition from every other fluid Avhich forms in the body. Outside the ectocyst there is commonly an in\msting capsule of greater or less thickness, deriAmd from the inflammatory products found in the tissues in Avhich the hydatid has implanted itself. This adventitious capsule adheres intimately to the organ or structure in Avhich the tumor occurs, and is A^ery freely supplied Avith blood. Sometimes the hydatid cyst is barren,that is, there are no echinococcus-heads developed upon the endocyst, but fluid alone is contained Avithin it. These baiTen cysts are aptly called acejohalocysts. They are the form of hydatid cyst most readily cured by tapping. The various changes Avhich hydatids may undergo Avill be referred to Avhen speaking of hydatids of the liA’er. They may occur at any age, and in either sex, and are not limited to any particular organ, structure, or ]iart of the body, but haAm been occasionally found in each one of them. The most common situation is someAvhere Avithin the abdomen; and the organ b}- far the inost frequently invaded is the liver. In the large majority of cases AA'here they hawe infested other parts and organs, they have originally occurred in the liver. Hydatid cysts may exist for years without destroying life, and even Avithout being detected or suspected. Hydatid Cyst of the Liver.—Symptoms.—The origin, and, for a time, the progress, of a hydatid of the liA^er are insidious, and it is not even suspected to exist until a perceptible tumor occurs. The tumor, when first detected, may be not larger than an orange, but it may groAv to such a size as to fill the greater part of the abdomen. The natural outline of the liver is changed by it as it groAVS in an upAA^ard, doAvinvard, or lateral direction. The surface of the tumor is smooth and regular, unless, as occasionally happens, two or mo're distinct cysts project from the surface of the liver near together, and thus present a lobulated outline. The tumor is elastic, if not actually fluc- tuating. If there be none, or but a thin layer, of the liver-tissue OA^erlying the CA"st, fluctuation Avill be distinct, and a thrill or A’ibration indicative of fluid will be detected on palpation. The hydatid’s groAvth is sIoav, and Avhen fountl to be of large size, it has probably existed for years—perhaps for A'ery many years.* Except from its Aveiglit, and the effects of pressure on surrounding parts, or from the embarrassment it causes to the breathing, it gHes rise to no local inconvenience until it occasions inflammation of the peritoneum cover- ing it, Avhen attacks of aente pain and tenderness occur. Such attacks are not., hoAvever, common in hydatid disease. (Edema of the loAver limbs, hemorrhoids, enlargement of the superficial A^eins of the abdomen, and ascites, are exceptional symptoms, but they are met Avith ; and Avhen thej" exist their canse is the pressure of the tumor upon the vena crati and vena porfse. Jaun- dice is rarely caused by hydatid of the liver, and, Avhen present, it arises from one of three conditions, namely, pressure on the bile-duct, rupture of the cyst into the duct, or catarrh of the ducts. In rare cases the splenic vein may be engorged, or the ureter compressed,^ by the hepatic cyst; or either the * Briglit, Budd, Murchison. * Bright, Clinical Memoirs on Abdominal Tumors, etc.