504 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. In milder cases, the use of chlorate-of-potassium and borax gargles, and the free purgation of the patient, will give relief. Abscess op the Tongue.—Abscess is not unfrecpiently the result of glossitis, and should he opened as soon as the presence of matter can be detected. In all inflammatory attections in which the tongue is protruded beyond the jaws, the effects of the presence of the incisor teeth upon .the organ must be borne in mind, for a deep groove is apt to he cut in the under surface of the tongue by the teeth, and tlius the swelling and oedema are increased. The teeth may be conveniently guarded by a metal or gutta-percha shield, and, if necessary, a support for the tongue may be easily adapted to such a con- trivance. ‘ Gummata of the Tongue.—Closely resembling abscess, since in its later stages it breaks down and contains fluid, is the gumma due to tertiary syphilis. Situated near the base or in the centre of the tongue, gummata or muscular nodes slowly increase in size without pain, and then, when the patient has got out of health from the syphilitic poison in his system, they rapidly soften and discharge, leaving deep excavated ulcers.^ A very similar nodule occur- ring ill the tongue of a strumous child, and running much the same course as a gumma, would by some surgeons be considered tubercular in its origin, but it may be doubted whether most of the recorded examples are not cases of inherited syphilis. The occurrence of fibro-cellular or fibroid tumors, or of scirrhous or med,ullary cancer, in the substance of the tongue, is extremely rare, and as it is impossible to diagnose their nature in an early stage, it is safer to look upon all tumors of the substance of the tongue as gummatous, and to treat them with full doses of iodide of potassium. The great majority will be found to disappear rapidly under this treatment, and certainly no harm will be done by the drug in cases of other forms of growth, which are not amenable to its influences. Chronic glossitis, leading to serious alterations in the superficial struc- tures of the tongue, may be due simply to too stimulating food or drink, or, much more frequently, to the over-use of tobacco. It may also depend upon syphilis, or may be caused by prolonged mercurial treatment. In the early stage, the tongue is reddened and irritable, being much more sensitive than in health, and, possibly, patches of similarly affected mucous membrane may be found in the cheeks. If unchecked, patches of white, hypertrophied epithelium will be formed over the most irritable spots, and these may be thrown off* from time to time, constituting the so-called gsoriasis linguce. The treatment of this chronic form of glossitis consists in removing all sources of local irritation, and in attending to the general health. Frequent painting with a five-grain solution of chromic acid, in the non-syphilitic forms, and wdth a two-grain solution of bichloride of mercury in the syphi- litic forms of the disorder, seems to be useful, combined with the use of demulcent lozenges, slowly sucked. A more serious result of chronic glossitis is the formation of a permanent white patch (leuco'plakia,leucoma) in which destruction of the papillary struc- ture is brought about with more or less infiltration of granulation-cells. These patches may remain quiescent for years, and may then develop true epithelioma, and they are therefore always causes for anxiety and watching, with a view to early operative interference should any growth begin to de- velop. It is remarkable, as pointed out by Hutchinson, that we do occasion- Lancet, January 22, 1881. * Vide infra.