( 793 ) ^ ’ INJURIES OF THE CHEST. BY EDWAP.D H. BENNETT, M.D., F.B.C.S.T., PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS IN IRELAND ; PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN TRINITY COLLEGE, DUBLIN | SURGEON TO SIR PATRICK DUN’S HOSPITAL, ETC. Contusions of the Chest. The division commonly adopted in the classification of wounds of the chest, may be employed with advantage in considering the subject of its con- tusions without wound. In the first group may be placed the contusions which implicate the walls only of the chest; in the second, contusions of the thoracic viscera. Contusions Limited to the Thor.icic Parietes.—The elasticity of the chest-wall, and the free mobility of its integument and of many of the mus- cles which compose it, render the efiect of lilows less important here than in many other parts of the body, provided that their force is insufficient to break the bones or the costal cartilages. Such injuries give rise to ecchy- moses of moderate extent, and but seldom to circumscribed bloody tumors such as are commonly seen on the head and in the limlis, as the result of bruises of the tissues which cover firmly resisting bones. For the same reason, concus- sion rarely atiects the thoracic viscera in consecpience of blows on the chest- wall, if we exclude, as we must do in this article, the injuries of tlie spinal segment of the wall. Again, sloughing of tlie skin or of the areolar tissue of the chest-wall rarely occurs after contusions, because of their slight efiect on tissues which are backed by an elastic support, and which are freely mov- able on that sup[)ort. Aliscess of the chest-wall, following contusion, is also a rare phenomenon, exce}it in the form of symptomatic abscess aiusing indirectly, that is, from a limited caries or necrosis of a rib, or of the ster- num ; indeeil, although injury to these bones is frefjuently followed by caries or necrosis, still the relation of either, in point of time, to the injmy, is so remote that the history of contusion is commonly vague, or entirely lost. The injuries which determine these diseases are usually limited and often trivial bruises, which take an exaggerated efiect in subjects of weakly or of strumous habit, circumstances which still further remove these abscesses from association with ordinary contusions. Pa'/i, the chiet symptom attendant on the injuries of this group, is com- monly severe, and is aggravated by the movements of respiration, by cough- in<T or sneezing, and by pressure, but it falls short in its characters of the pain which attends a fractured rib. The diagnosis lies between simple con- tusion and contusion complicated by fracture. In ordinary cases, during the first few days which succeed the injury, the character of the pain alone serves to distinguish the simiile from the complicated contusion. In both, the pain is aggravated by motion and liy pressure, but the [tresence of a fracture renders it so acute and sudden that the patient cannot be induced to coimh