INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 878 of the Spleen, but here the spleen was enlarged and very soft; the rupture was caused hy a blow from a hoy who in stature scarcely reached the waist of the man he killed. M. Adgla* and 1\1. Colliid have published exhaustive papers on riqitures of the spleen, in diseased subjects, from muscular contrac- tion or very slight external violence. If death from liemorrhage is escaped, abscess, and, less frequently, peritonitis, may cause the fatal result. In a case i-eported h}’ INIr. I)avy,^ the portion of the spleen corresponding to the suspensory ligament was completely crushed otf from the rest, and an antero-posterior rent nearly severed the remaining tive-sixths of the organ at its middle. There were three short, linear rents in the splenic capsule, and the liver also was ruptured. Death occurred in two hours. There can he no doubt that in some instances riq)ture of the spleen, as of the liver, has Ijeen an after-result, and due to some movement of the patient whereby the broken end of a rib has been driven into the organ. Such a case was under the care of Mr. Campbell de Morgan,^ in the Middlesex Hospital, in 1872;— A man, aged thirty-two, fell 25 feet, broke several ribs, and received otlier slighter injuries; emphysema followed on the left side; and he was sick, thirsty, suffered much ])ain in the prajcordia, and could not [>ass his urijie, but quickly rallied, and on the following day was doing well; thus he continued until the following day, wlien he was seized with delirium tremens and struggled violently ; he then sank rapidly and died the next morning. The post-mortem examination showed that there had been a perfora- tion of the ileum, w hich had become glued to the diaphragm, and that the broken end of a rib had projected through the diaphi’agm into a large rent in the spleen, from wliich extensive hemorrhage had taken j)lace into the abdominal cavity. Both the clinical and post-mortem conditions of this case were opposed to tlie idea that the splenic lesion had been caused at the time of the accident. 'I'lie s}»leen, instead of being ruptured, may be displaced and reversed in position I)y an injury wliicb ruptures other tdidominal viscera. Thus, in a boy, aged nineteen, ivbo was lirought into the Middlesex Hospital, the stomach, diaphragm, and left kidney were ruptured; the stomach, with its contents, and the left lobe of the liver, were projected upwards through the rent in the diaphragm, and the lower end of the spleen was dragged upwards with the stomach into the chest. The symptoms of riqitnrcd spleen are collapse, pallor, and coldness from loss of blood ; pra'cordial pain, gasping and shortness of breath ; small, feeble pulse, sometimes very <piick,from 120 to 150 beats in the minute; vomiting, thirst, and retention of urine. In many cases it is not possible to sa}' what proportion of the symptoms is due to the rupture of the s])leen, as there is so frequently a complication with other injuries within the abdomen and chest. Slighter cases of rupture of the sjileen are likel}' to give rise to intra-perito- neal abscess, more especially in the left hypochondrium, between the dia- phragm, stomach, and spleen. . Itupture of the Kidney.—It may he stated at once that hrematnria following an injury to the loin, or lumbar region of the abdomen, is not necessarily symptomatic of ruptured kidney, and that on the other hand hrematuria is not always a symptom ivlien the kidney is ruptured; for the ureter may hecorne completely plugged by clot, so that neither blood nor urine can get down to the hladder from the injured organ, and therefore no hiematuria occur, and at the same time the kidney may be lost as an excreting organ.® 1 Recherches sur la Rupture Spontanee de la Rate (Arch. (I^n. de Medeciue, 1843 et 1844). * Des Ruj)tures Spoutanees de la Rate (Mem. de Chir. de Med. et de Rliarmacie Militaires, 1855). For these and numerous other references on the subject of ruptures of the abdominal vis- cera, see Dr. Otis’s exhaustive Surgical History of tlie War of the Rebellion, vol. ii. Trans. Rath. Soc. bond.,vol. xxi. x'- 395. < Ibid., vol. xxiv. p. 173. ® See Trans. Rath. Soc. bond., vol. xi. x>. 140.