985 FALSE ANUS. Wells’s artery forceps, lie introduced an India-rubber valve into the bowel in such a manner as to close the intestinal aperture, and fastened each end of the valve by means of a wire suture passed through the parietes of the abdo- men. The valve was thin and flexilile, and the pressure of the feces against its under surface was relied on to make it lit still more closely to the curves of the opening, llis patient made a complete recovery, but it is uncertain to what extent, if any, the valve contributed to the cure. (3) Another method of cure is to obliterate and close the external opening. This has been attempted in several ways; {a) Pressure by means of an elastic truss, or linen compress, wbich ought to extend considerably beyond the limits of the external opening, {h) The use of caustic, the actual cautery, or the thermo- cautery—a plan particularly recommended by Pietfenbacb, who cured a case by thus destroying the edge of the bowel at its junction with the skin, and a considerable portion of the mucous membrane within the orilice, liut Avithout acting on the skin itself, (c) Suture, after freshening the edges of the opening, (d) Autoplasty, which consists in covering in the opening by a piece of skin <letached from the neighborhood, and united by threads to the external aper- ture. Jobert, after failing with each of the above-named measures for closing the external opening, succeeded by the following manner: A portion of skin was dissected away at each side of, but at some little distance from, the arti- licial anus, and the raw surfaces were brought into contact in front of the -o[>ening, and secured by six twisted sutures. Thus Avas fonned a kind of bridge over, Avith an open angle aljove and beloAV, the false anus. After the escape of a little fecal matter from both loAver and u[>per angles, tlie parts united in front of the opening, and a cure Avas perfected after some months. (4) Resection and circular suture of the intestine has iccently been someAvhat largely practised both for gangrenous hernia and for false anus. From a criti- cal revieAv of this subject by MM. Bouilly and Gr. Assaky,^ Ave learn that in the ten years folloAving 1873 there Avere thirty-six cases of resection for gan- grenous rupture, viz.: 21 femoral, 11 inguinal, 1 umbilical, and 3 unstated. The mortality Avas 5U per cent.; there Avere IG complete recoveries, persistent fistula in 1, and a false anus in 1. There Avere 29 resections for false anus, 17 of Avhich Avere successful, 1 failed, and 11 terminated fatally. In 2(3 cases the false anus Avas consecutive to gangrenous hernia. Enterectomy folloAved by cnteror- raphy, if successful in gangrenous hernia, spares the patient the disgust and misery of ever having a false anus. The indications for practising it are, INI. Bouilly considers, the folloAving: 1, Avhen the general condition is such that the patient can stand tlie operation Avithout syncope, shock, Ammiting, or })ul- rnonary congestion ; 2, Avhen no general peritonitis and no fecal extravasation into the peritoneal cavity liave occurred ; 3, Avhen the gangrenous intestine and mesentery can l>e draAvn out, and resection practised m healthy parts of gut; 4, Avhen the calibres of the resected ends are not greatly different. As regards the operation for a false anus, M. Bouilly concludes tliat the operation is indicated: 1, in cases in AA’hich compression, the application of the entero- tome, sutui’es, autoplasty, and other methods of treatment luwe failed; 2, Avhen the precise condition of the boAvel involved cannot be made out, and also, Avhen there is crossing of the ends of the boAvel, great inef|uality in calibre, or several perforations near together; 3, Avben extensiA^e prolapse of mucous membrane exists, with or Avitbout invagination of the subjacent part of intestine; 4, Avhen there is consitlerable }>rolapse of one or both ends of the intestine; 5, Avben a false anus lias no spur-like projection betAveen the upper and loAver ends of the gut, and there is so large a loss of substance that ' Revue de Chirurgie, Mai et .Juillet, 1883. See also Am. Jourii. ol Medical Sciences, Octo- ber, 1883.