193 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ORBIT. lessly blind, I did not hesitate to enucleate it. This preliminary operation was ex- tremely easy. I then had free access to a very hard mass, that completely filled the socket. It was thoroughly dissected out, and was found to embrace the atrophied optic nerve. Recovery was prompt. In about two years a reproduction was detected, growing from the apex of the orbit. Its progress was very slow and not at all painful. At length a second operation, to empty the orbit, was executed. Recovery, as before, was rapid. Now she has, after several years, a renewal of the morbid growth, filling the cavity, but causing no special inconvenience. She is, and has always been, in excellent general health. The only known cause of the development of this tumor was the sting of a bee on the eyelid. The early history of a second case, I extract from the published Transac- tions of the International Medical Congress, held in Philadelphia in 1876 :— R. W., aged twenty-four, of stout figure, robust healtli, and sanguine temperament, was injured by the horn of a calf on Jan. 18, 1876. The point of the horn struck the lower lid, glancing inwards and backwards, and entering the orbit just above the tendo oculi, causing an ugly contused wound and a severe concussion. Tlie wound bled pro- fusely, but healed in the course of a week without surgical treatment. There was no bleeding from the nose; no ocular hemorrhage ; nor was the patient rendered uncon- scious by tlie shock. Sight was not affected, and there was no diplopia, headache, giddiness, or other sym[)tom of injury of the brain. There was no [H’otrusion noticed. About five weeks after the accident, while stooping and driving a cross-cut saw, a sharp pain was felt above tlie right eye, running back over the ear to tlie temple. This sharp, peculiar pain came on at intervals, several times during the day, but was always provoked by stooping or straining, and soon passed off when the patient straightened himself up, and rested from sawing. There was no giddiness, tlirobbing, or bruit. Late in April, it was first noticed that the sight of the eye was misty at times, but without pain or other symptom of disease. For this failure in sight, a physician was consulted, who first detected an undue prominence of the eye. From that period, about May 1, for about three months, the exophthalmus increased slowly, but varied very perceptibly between morning and evening, being always greater in the morning. After that time it remained stationary. When I first saw this patient, in August, there was a striking exophthalmus of over one-fourth of an inch, with slight injection of the sclerotic conjunctiva, and some serous, chemotic swelling within the external commis- sure. Corresponding to this were seen some large, dee[i-seated, inosculating vessels on the sclerotic. The pupil was larger than the other, and somewhat sluggish. The movements of the globe were limited by its prominence, and by the stretching of the muscles, but there was no paralysis. Tliere was a divergence when fixing with the other eye, and tlie motion upwards and inwards was less excursive, but there was no diplopia, which I attributed to the imperfect sight. Strongly marked features of swollen disk, and some neuritis ; boundaries of the disk obscured, and veins very large and tortuous to tlieir extreme branches; slight alteration of the macula lutea, blurring its distinctive featui'es. Vision very defective in consequence of a large central scotoma, whicli patient expressed as well defined, but not complete. Tension of the globe, natural. No pulsation whatever of the globe, nor bruit on^ auscultation. When the eye- ball was pressed directly backwards, it was arrested by a solid resistance. Diagnosis: Tumor of some kind at apex of orbit, probably of aneurismal character. In tlie complete absence of the three most characteristic symptoms of aneurism—pulsa- tion, bruit, and some degree of elasticity on [iressure—I relied, in coming to this opinion, upon the evidently traumatic origin of the affection, upon its peculiar history, upon the absence of inflammatory symptoms, and upon the exclusion of the symptoms of either benignant or malignant tumor at the apex of the orbit. The symptoms followed so soon after the injury, and in the beginning were so characteristic, as to make this opinion more probable than any other. The sudden, sharp, severe pain running liackwards over the temple, and caused by stooping and straining, coming on about four weeks after tlie blow, might be explained by the sudden rujiture of the ophthalmic artery, directly as it entered the orbit through the optic foramen. This patient was presented to the ophthalmological section of the congress for exami- nation ; but none of those present were willing to venture a positive diagnosis. VOL. V.—13