DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. I 007 by means of a moistened probe, and let down immediately on the cornea. A drop of the perchloride of iron may be used in the same way, allowing it to run over the cornea. The reaction following its application is intense for a few hours, but the benefit is often very prompt and great. In the same cases a solution of eserine may be used once a day. It seems at times to bring about a marked improvement in the pannus. Another remedy, Avhich is very soothing and safe for the patient in home use, is a salve of vaseline and boracic acid, tifteen grains to one-half ounce, to be put in the eyes twice a day. Mercurial salves of different kinds, used in the eyes for granulations and pannus, are of no value in most cases, and positively injurious in many. With one other practical remark, I end what I have to say upon this important subject. In the advanced stages of granulations, when the morl)id deposits are undergoing slow absorption, and cicatrization is setting in, we often find, when the upper lid is well everted, that the acino-tubular glands, along the back edge of the tarsus, are engorged by a sort of gelatinous sub- stance which keeps up the irritation of the cornea and delays the cure. For many years I have been in the habit of pressing this rudely out with the two thumb nails, one slid behind and the other in front, and moved along the whole length of the tarsus. This being well done two or three times, at intervals of a day or two, very much expedites the usual local treatment. This procedure is painful, but it must be adopted firmly and without hesi- tation. Diseases of the Cornea. Keratitis.—Inflammation of the cornea, in some form, is the starting point of most of its serious lesions. Tlic clinical symptoms by Avhich this process is diagnosed, are of easy recognition. Loss of the natural trans- parency is the first certain symptom. The degree of opacity may vary from the slightest haziness to the densest leucoma. With this physical change, is uniformly seen an alteration in the polish of the reflecting surface, giving it tlie appearance of ground glass, and causing images reflected from it to be blurred and indistinct. This depends on abrasions and irregularities of the corneal epithelium. AVith these objective alterations, there is associated the most characteristic subjective symptom, photophobia. The intolerance of light, in acute keratitis, is generally intense, particularly in scrofulous children. It is, however, by no means in proportion to the physical damage to the cornea and the degree of impairment of vision. The dread of light is often much more distressing than actual, severe pain. The latter may and often does occur, especially when there is infiltration and pressure on the nerve filaments of the cornea, or actual ulceration. In the latter case it is sliarp and severe, like the thrust of a needle, but usually coiitined to the eyeball. With the photophobia is always very troublesome epij>hora, and spasmodic closure of the lids. Of course the weeping is increased by ex])osure to light. When the eye is inspected, a more or less complete red zone of sclerotic injection will be seen around the cornea, fading out as it is followed toward the ecpiator, which it does not reach. This group of sym|)toms is so characteristic that a mistake is scarcely possible. Blurring of vision, necessarily present, is not easily estimated,because the patient can open the eye hut for a liricf moment, and it instantly fills with tears. As the cornea ])erforms a double function in the economy of vision, its lesions are all the more serious. AFith the sclera it constitutes the strong form-maintaining tunic, and, at the same time, it acts as a refracting medium. Faulty changes of curvature, giving rise to ill- defined images, and cloudiness leading to irregular and imperfect illumination, combine to make sight imperfect. Both changes are usual results of iullam-