00.') PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. Protrusion of the solid organs is a rare occurrence, but several cases are on record. In some instances, portions of the liver have l)een cut off, either witliout or after applying a ligature around the protruding part. Dr. Mac- pherson’s case,* and one (Quoted from I)ictfenbach's journal bj" Professor Dunglison, may be referred to. Recovery has followed the removal of a protruding spleen, of a kidney, and of a large part of the pancreas.- The treatment to adopt in such cases ought to depend ipion whether the protruded organ is wounded or not, and how long it has been protruded. If it be not wounded, and the case be seen directly, the proper practice is to return it, and to this end the wound in the parietes should be enlarged, if necessary; if wounded, or if the organ be damaged from long exposure, it is unsafe to return it; a ligature should be a])plied, and the protruded part K3ut away, if it be the liver which is involved. In the case of the kidney, mid perhaps also of the spleen, the whole organ must be excised. Dr. Dlun- delP states that Mr. Cline used to relate the case of a soldier whose side was laid open by a sabre-wound through which the spleen protruded, and lay -out in the dirt for some hours. It was removed by the surgeon, and the man recovered without any subsecpient inconvenience. A case is recorded* in which the spleen, after being protruded for twenty-four hours through a wound in the left liypochondrium, was found irreducible, cold and black; a strong, waxed thread was tied around it, above the unsound f»art, and 3| ounces of the spleen were cut away; another ligature was then rerpiired, to a large spurt- ing artery, and after the parts were well bathed with warm water, the rest of the spleen was returned, with the threads hanging out of the wound. On the tenth day the threads were removed, and ultimately the man got (piito well. In this case the i»atienthad difficulty in passing water for eight days ; and in another case referred to by Dr. Blundell, in which the whole spleen separated completely from the body on the twentieth day after the wound, and the eighteenth day after the application of the ligature, there was bloody urine till the tenth day ; but the man was well by the forty-fifth day. Protrusion of the uninjured bladder occasionally, thougli very rarely, occurs. -Fust as it has been observed as a rare occupant of a hernial sac, so in excep- tional cases the bladder has projected through a wound in the lower part of the abdominal parietes. Samuel Cooper saw three such cases at Brussels, after the battle of Waterloo. Before such a thing can occur, the capacity of the bladder must have been greatly increased by over-distension of its walls. Protrusion of the bladder through a wound in the abdominal walls may occur without penetration of the peritoneal cavity; and even when this is opened, tbe prolapsed part of the liladder is only partially covered by peritoneum, but the. greater the prolapse the more extensively is that membrane involved. When protruded, the bladder forms a soft, compressible swelling, which, as a rule, is easily reduced by pressure, the reduction being accompanied by an urgent desire to pass water. The treatment consists in reducing the protrusion, and in introducing a soft catheter, which should for a time be i-etained. The treatment of all wounds of the parietes, after the reduction of pro- truded viscera, is the same as that of simple, penetrating wounds. In pass- ing the sutures, care must be taken not to injure an}" of the viscera, and not to allow blood to trickle from the punctures back into tlie peritoneal cavity; both these olijects are attained liy introducing a flat sjionge, if the wound he a large one, and spreading it out upon the viscera until all the stitches are ’ M(!(1. Gaz., .lamiary, 184G. ^ See section on Penetrating Wounds of Pancreas. ’ Blundell’s ]>ai)ers in Dr. Ashweli’s Practical Treatise ou Parturition. Loudon, 1828. * Philosophical Transactions, vol. xl. p. 425.