SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. 611 injection, the seton, etc., have all been tried with the object of l)rino-ing about absorption. The biniodide ointrneiit, used as already descril)ed, has also been employed for tliis form of the affection. When other means fail, excision may be thought of in favoralde cases, hut is a proceeding so formidable that few surgeons have had the courage to attempt it. In the words of Dr. Greene, “ accurate anatomical knowledge and a perfect self- control under the most trying ordeals through winch a surgeon can pass, are indispensable to its performance.” Yet it lias been done, and that success- fully, in very formidable eases. The ligature was used by ISIoreau, Desault, Mayor, and others, hut with very indifferent success. The knife has been preferred by some, and while in not a few cases the bleeding has been very great—so profuse as to cause the arrest of tlie operation—it has been success- fully commanded in others without much difficulty. Some patients, how- ever, have died of hemorrhage, either at the time of the operation or shortly afterwards; and that excision is not an operation to he undertaken by surgeons without experience in perilous undertakings, or in other than exceptional circumstances, must he admitted. It appears to liave Iieen first performed by Desault, and since then has frequently lieen executed both in Europe and America, and the successful cases have been about two-thirds of those operated on.i Greene, in 1871, described the method which, as subsequently improved by Dr. Heron Watson, of Edinburgh,^ ITof. Billroth, and others, is that now generally followed. An incision is made in the middle line down to the capsule of the gland. This incision must be free, and may extend from the chin to the sternum. In this tliere is little bleeding. The tumor is then enucleated without opening the capsule. This is done rapidly with the finger. Tlie lateral and anterior connections having been broken up, and the sterno-rnastoid muscles held aside, the superior and inferior thyroid arteries are secured by double ligatures, where they enter the tumoi’ at its upper and lower angles. The various veins are also tied as they are encountered round the circumference of the growtli, till the whole vascular circle has lieen made secure. The vessels are then divided between the ligatures by Avhich they have been tied, and the mass removed. Greene did not stop to secure the lesser vessels, luit sought rapidly for the pedicle and tied it. Wliere the }>edicle is large, or when some }iart of the growth cannot be isolated, tlie tcraseur may be employed. The galvano-cautery has also been suggested, but the careful and systematic deligation of each vessel is the most reliable plan to folloAV. Primary and secondaiy liemorrhage are beyond doubt the most serious dangers, and these have occasioned the most appalling catastrophes when the capsule has been opened and Avhen the A-essels luwe not been systematically and completely secured. Shock, septiciemia, and diffuse cellulitis have also proA^ed fatal after this operation. Ligature of the thyroid arteries, and also of the carotid, has been employed in tlie treatment of goitre, Avhen highly vascular, Avithout the tumor being otherwise interfered with ; hut, as lias been already said, these operations are not only difficult, but have not been attended Avith such success as to encourage their repetition. When suffocation tlireatens a patient suffering from goitre, Ave have to consider Avhether it is due to temporary congestion Avhicli can be relieved by local depletion and the a})plication of ice, etc., or Avbether, as is more usual, it arises from the permanent pressure of the groAvtli. If there lie a distended cyst, then tapping may giAm rapid relief; liut if the tumor be solid, no aid can be tlius got. Tracheotomy may lie impossilile from the position and size of the growth, from the dis})lacement of the Avindpipe (avIucIi is so apt to occur), ' Koclier. CnrrfspoiirteiizLlatt.; A\’’elch, Trails. Am. Med, Assoc., 1878. 2 Ediii. Med. .Toiiriial, Sept. 1873.