88 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Cerebral Localization. Whatever may be urged by the opponents of cerebral localization, I think that there ivill be few who will deny that the situation of the cortical motor area of the brain is now definitely known, and that by the aid of certain measurements we can locate, with suflicient accuracy for operative purposes, the fissure of Rolando, and, in consequence, the ascending parietal, frontal, and other convolutions. The latest authoritative expression of opinion is to the effect that, “ there does not yet exist a single accurate observation of a destructive lesion outside the motor area, having produced permanent paralysis, nor does there exist a single accurate observation of a destructive lesion of any extent of the ascending convolutions, which has not given rise to permanent paralysis of the opposite side of the body.”^ Owing to the commissural connections of the various portions of the brain, to the surround- ing areas of softening, or to the mdema which accompanies inflammatory lesions, secondary })henomena attendant upon brain-injuries apparently con- tradict these statements, but primary circumscribed lesions produce symptoms which are neither uncertain nor misleading. For surgical puiqioses, it must never be lost sight of, that in proportion as the symptoms indicate circum- scription of the lesion, so is their value; and that evident implication of many centres, and inconstant symptoms, should make the surgeon review his diagnosis, so that no unnecessary or useless operation may be performed. There are already on record at least five cases in which success, as regards the discovery of the lesions, has attended an operation guided by cerebral localization, and in three of these cases the patients have recovered or been relieved. Let no one think that I am contending that cerebral localization can be frequently available for surgical purposes as indicating an operation. This must be comparatively rare, although I believe that confidence I’esulting from more extended experience will in the future lead to more frequent interference. The chief advantage to be gained at ])resent from our improved knowledge of cerebral topogi’aphy, is that it will direct in many cases when to with- hold operative interference, as has been pointed out under the head of intra- cranial extravasations of blood. For surgical purposes, we may consider that the various cerebral centres are located as taught by Lucas-Championniere:— Loiver extremity, summit of the ascending parietal convolution. Upper and lower extremity, summit of the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions. Upper extremity, middle portion of the ascending frontal convolution. Upper extremity and aphasia, inferior third of the ,ascending frontal, and foot of the third convolution. Facial paralysis, inferior third of the ascending frontal, and foot of the second frontal. Aphasia, foot of the third frontal. These differ slightly from Ferrier’s points, but less so than would appear at first sight, and I am disposed to agree with Lucas-Champion- niere, that, sui-gically, they are more practically useful. ISTature and Forms of the Palsies and Convulsions observed in Wounds OF THE Head.—These palsies result from superficial lesions of those portions of the brain which lie almost without exception beneath the anterior half of the parietal bone (see Fig. 831), and they correspond closely to those experi- mentally produced upon animals. As traumatic cerebral lesions are almost never limited to a point, but com- 1 Charcot, Revue de M6decine; Med. Times and Gazette, 1883, vol. i. p. 616, and vol. ii. p. 491; Ibid., 1884, vol. i. p. 270.