174 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. canal or canals, the opaque sclei’a is suddenly transformed into the clear cornea, the line of union being called the lirnhus corneie, or the sclero-corneal junction. The horizontal diameter of the cornea, in front, measures 11.6 mm., while the vertical is 11 mm. The anterior surface of the cornea is an ellip- soid, the curvature in the vertical being slightly greater than in the horizontal meridian. This gives rise to a slight degree of normal astigmatism. In the central region, through which direct vision takes place, the anterior and posterior surfaces of the cornea are parallel, the thickness measuring 0.9 mm., Avhile in the periphery it is 1.1 mm. thick. The most important physical properties of the cornea are its great transparency and firmness of texture. It is seldom ruptured by blunt force, the sclera yielding in preference, in a line parallel to and close behind the base of the cornea. In virtue of its epithelial covering, the free surface of the cornea is very polished, reflecting sharp but diminutive images. The conjunctival epithelium is continuous with that of the cornea. As on a basement, this smooth epithelial layer rests on the condensed corneal tissue, called usually Bowman’s membrane. Poste- riorly the cornea is lined by a “ glass” lamella, the membrane of Descemet. Its free surface, washed by aqueous humor, is covered by a single layer of endothelial cells, which have an important bearing on the filtration of fluids through the cornea. The proper tissue making up the main thickness of the cornea, is contained between these two surface membranes, and is of a lamellated character, capable of being resolved into a greater or less number of layers, according to the delicacy of the manipulation. Each lamina is composed of vast numbers of fine elastic fibres, miming parallel with each other. The layers are placed upon each other so that the fibres of one lamina will lie at right angles to those of the next. The numerous lamime are knit together by fibres passing more or less perpendicularly through them. The interspaces between the superimposed layers and their elements are filled with a transparent, gluey substance, in Avhich are lodged the cor- neal cells, and through which pass the irregular canals that circulate trans- parent, nutritive fluid. The cornea, as a necessary condition of its great clearness, is non-vascular, only becoming visibly vascular in consequence of inflammation. The cornea, in the deeper layers of its epithelium and in its superficial laminee, is very freely supplied by a fine, lieantiful network of sensory nerve filaments. Its common sensibility is due to this liberal supplj' from the fifth nerve. The arcus senilis of the cornea, which is seen in many old persons, and rarely in the young, is a fatty degeneration of its elements, in a narrow strip just within its base. The sclera gives solid attachment to the rotatory muscles which reach it by piercing obliquely the capsule of Tenon. The four straiglit muscles are fixed to the anterior, and the tAVO oblique to the posterior hemisphere of the sclerotic. A'ithin, the sclera is lined by tlie choroid for about two-thirds of its extent. The tAvo are loosely connected by elastic fibrillar tissue, covered with endothelium, and forming lymph spaces. Tlie choroid is excessively vascular, formino- a reservoir of nutritive material for all the inner oro-ans of the srlobe. It contains, in addition to its exquisite A^ascularity, fine fibres of connectiA’e tissue, numerous cells filled Avith pigment grannies, and many nerve fibres. The amount of pigment in the cells of the stroma A^aries from great abund- ance in dark races, to little in fair persons, and none in albinos. Posteriorly, the choroid is pierced by the optic nerve, the opening corres- ponding Avith the optic papilla and the blind spot. The choroid AA'as once con- sidered the seat of visual impressions, and the hole in it Avas, of course, a suffi- cient explanation for the blind spot! If divided into tAvo layers, the outer contains the large choroidal vessels (vasa Amrticosa, etc.) and the inner, the beau- tiful chorio-capillaris. It is undoubtedly to this rich iietAAmrk of capillaries.