DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 848 be lost ill making an exploratory, antiseptic incision, so as to determine tlie true character of the swelling. If scirrhiis of the hreast he not interfered with hy operation, it progresses more or less rapidly. In the acute form of the disease its progress may he veiy quick, and it may run its course and cause death in a few months, more especially when it attacks a patient who is pregnant or nursing at the time. Billroth relates a case in which death took place six weeks after the first appearance of the disease, and in which the liver, kidneys, omentum, pericardium, and tliyroid gland contained secondary deposits. This however must he considered an exceptional case. It has also been noted by Paget that, although exceptions occur, “ On the whole, the earlier the disease begins the quicker is its course. Thus, among those who lived not more than 18 months, I find that the average age at which the disease was first observed was 43 years. Among those who lived between 18 and 36 months, it was 51 years ; and among those who lived between 3 and 8 years, the ave- rage at the commencement of the disease was 56.7 years.” These statistics are taken from cases which had not been interfered with by operation. From six months to fifteen or twenty years may be considered to be the duration of cases of cancer of the breast, but a very large proportion die at some period between six months and three years. Involvement of I/ijm-phatie Glands.-—As has already been mentioned, the time of such involvement varies; one, two, or many glands may become atiected in the axilla, and for some time such glands may be movable and circum- scribed ; but as the case progresses, more glands become affected, and the result otten is a hard, irregular mass in the axilla, pressing upon the veins and nerves, giving rise to oedema of the Avbole arm, and to pain more or less aggravated. The infection of the glands would appear to take place not directly through the lymphatic vessels themselves, but by means of cells forming in the lymph-spaces of the breast, and then being carried along the radicles of the lymphatic vessels which are continuous with these spaces. The glands having once become involved, act as centres for the spreading of the cancer, for the infection of the blood through the thoracic ducts, and for the implication of internal organs. Lymphatic glands in the axilla are occasionally enlarged from inflammatory irritation in connection with cancerous disease of the breast, especially if ulceration or sloughing be present. The cancerous gland is hard and firm; the inflammatory enlargement is not so hard, and is relieved by soothing applications. Less frequently the glands under the clavicle and in the cer- vical region become atiected, and bal’d cords are sometimes felt passing from the breast to lymphatic glands'in both axilla and neck. I have occasionally seen such cords, resembling inflamed lynqibatics or veins passing down into the abdominal wall. It may be here noted that the situation of the cancer does not appear to influence glandular affection, and further, that when there is early glandular affection, the disease is more acute and runs its course more rapidly. Involvement of the Skin, Deeper Textures, and Internal Organs.—The skin may at any time become involved in the disease. At first this may be in the forin of an adhesion or infiltration which confines itself to one point, and gradually becomes more marked, or discoloration with thinning of the skin may take place early, and soon be followed by suppuration and ulceration. In one form of the disease, which is not very common, the Avbole skin and subcutaneous tissue over the breast, become thickened and infiltrated, and this condition may spread and affect the whole skin of the thorax, portions