TUMORS OF THE BREAST. 837 note that if the breast is being used for nursing, all applications of a poison- ous nature must be carefully washed off before the child is put to the nipple. Ketracted UTipples.—The nipples may he small and retracted congenitally, or owing to the pressure of stays or other portions of dress, or to contractions of the breast-structure from inflammatory causes or the presence of tumors. Such a condition may cause much trouble in connection with suckling, and by leading to obstruction of the lacteal ducts. AVheu due to the first two causes mentioned, it may sometimes he relieved by regularly drawing out the nipple with the fingers or sucking-glasses. The application of a shield, with tube attached, will occasionally assist in allowing the child to be nursed. Tumors of the Breast. All practical surgeons are aware of the difiiculty, in the present state of patliological knowledge, of making a correct classification of tumors. In the case of the breast, as in the case of other organs, tumors afiecting it, which wei’e once considered to be simple or benign in their characters, are now known to be as malignant in their tendencies as are the true cancers. It is unfortunate, too, that, owing to defective patliological study, different terms have been applied to tlie same kind of growth, while on the other hand growths of an entirely different structure have been classed under the same term, owing to their having some resemblance to one another in their exter- nal characteristics. The case api')ears to stand thus: Bathologists have, by impi’oved micro- scopic study and other research, determined that tumors formerly supposed to be identical, vary much in their development, structure, and tendencies ; but practical experience is not yet sufiicient to enable the diagnostic symptoms and behavior of all these varieties to he accurately described by mere clinical study and external examination. Undei’ tliese circumstances, an attempt can only be made to study the subject of tumors of the breast in their pathological and clinical aspects, as far as present experience exists. In order to do this as practically as possible, it is proposed to employ the terms mnpleixnil vialujnant^ and to classify under tliese heads the tumors that affect the breasts. I am awai’e that this classification is imperfect, and that tumors which may be considered of a douhtfid nature must be included under one or other of these heads; but the term “semi-malignant,” which is sometimes used, scarcely ex])resses the true behavior of such growths. Professor S. W. Gross, in his recent and valuable work, a study of whieli has been most interesting and useful to me, suggests the following comliined genetic and anatomical classification of tumors of the breast;— (A) 1. Neoplasms derived from the jieriglamlular connective, and constituted Ity con- nective tissue or its eijuivalent, of wliicli two divisions may be made, namely:— («) Those which represent perfected or matured connective tissues, and may, there- fore, be called typical. These coni[)rise fibroma, or fibrous tumor ; myxoma, or mucous tumor ; lipoma, or fatty tumor; and chondroma, or cartilaginous tumor. {h) The second division includes those neo[)lasms which represent embryonic, unripe, or transitional connective tissue, and may be termed atypical. It is limited to the genus sarcoma. 2. Neoplasms which proceed from the secreting elements, and are composed of ej)i- thelium. Of these, adenoma, or glandular tumor, is a typical epithelial growth, while carcinf)ma is an atypical epithelial formation. 3. Neo[ilasms which are derived from and are constituted by higher structures.