PKOTllETIC DENTISTRY. 6G5 cessary to notice. With atmosplieric-pressure ];>lates the whole of the roof of the mouth must be covered, even to the posterior border of the palatine bone. The application of the plate is secured by raising its central part from contact with the roof, and creating a defined chamber of from one-half to three-fourths of a sfj[uare inch of surface. If the plate were accurately adapted, and if all the air could he exhausted from such a chamber, thus creating a perfect vacuum, a pressure of from eight to ten pounds would be obtained, and the plate would sustain such a weight before it would drop ; but practically no such security is ever reached. The adaptation is faulty, and, consequently, the most that is ever attempted or expected, is to get stability sufficient to bear the tipping strain of mastication. In practice this can usually be obtained, and in moutlis where the mucous membrane is thin and hard over the bones and processes, such an amount of adhesion can lie secured without difficulty; but where the gums are thick and spongy, exuding more or less viscid, mucous fluid, real suction is almost impossible. The retention of plates under such conditions is due not as much to atmos- pheric pressure as to sim[)le adhesion. Full dentures for the lower jaw are retained only by the accuracy of their adaptation, and by their own weight. Ordinarily tliey are tar more troublesome for a patient to manage than those for the up})er jaw. The mus- cles of the tongue and cheeks are continually lifting them out of place, and sometimes no amount of weiglit will keep them quiet. As a general rule, it will be found that the older patients are, the more intolerant they ai’e of weight. So that while younger patients will tolerate and be benefited by all the weight that can be obtained, old patients must have as little weight as possible. It is because of the want of stability of all full lower dentures, that it is particularly ill-advised to remove all the teeth from the lower jaw, even when only one remains, if it is firm enough to give steadiness to the artificial denture. The retention of one tooth, anywhere upon the lower jaw, is of untold value in adding to the comfort of the patient. The requirements of dental pi’othesis are frequently more than a mere restoration of masticating a[)paratus. With the loss of the alveolar processes, comes an entire change in the external form of the face and in its expression. A restoration of expression involves artistic study and ability, and the bases upon which the teeth are set often have to be built into peculiar shapes to produce such results. In some cases, plumpers as large as filberts are needed to fill out the sunken cheeks. There is no loss of alveolar processes or ad- joining maxillm, however extensive, consistent with the life of the patient, that may not now be measurably restored by mechanical skill. Large por- tions of either or both jaws have been carried away by gunshot, and the com- fort of the patient and his masticating ability restored by nicely adjusted prothetic appliances. The bases upon which artificial teeth are set are of two sorts—metallic and plastic—each with its advantages and disadvantages. Platinum, gold, sil- ver, tin, aluminum, and some compositions, of which tin forms the main part, have been found useful. Vulcanized rubber and celluloid are the two chief plastic substances which have been used for the same purpose. Each one of these materials finds its place and its advocates, Imt they are not all equally desirable, in regard to either durability, comfort, cleanliness, or health. Gold and platinum rank first, l)ecause of their strength and purity. They are not acted upon by the fluids of the mouth, and a strong, delicate, and artistic piece of workmanslii[> can be made from them. With very little care, a set of teeth thus made can be kept clean, sweet, and free from odor. The objections to gold