CONTUSIONS or THE ABDOMINAL PARIETES. 855 and every abdominal injury should be treated as if it were serious, until its true nature lias been developed by time. Hospital records are suggestive of the probabilities of diagnosis and prognosis, and give an idea of the average risks in contusions of the abdomen. Speaking roughly, it is found that about tliree-tifths of the patients recover without more than slight and passing symptoms ; in considerably less than one-tifth of the cases, symptoms of }ieri- tonitis Avill set in; and in considerably more than one-tiftli, rupture of the viscera complicates the contusion, or occurs without any apparent injuiy of the parietes. Treatment.—There is no injury of the abdomen, as there is none of the head, which ought not to receive immediate and careful attention. Early precautions may prevent future serious consequences ; and even if time shows the results to be slight, the rest and quiet will have conduced to the avoidance of mishap. In all cases, then, after contusion—whether the sym}»toms be grave or slight—rest in bed, and muscular relaxation, by elevating the head and shoulders and flexing the thighs on the abdomen, must be insisted on for a few days; and if pain be felt, warm fomentations sliould be applied to the belly. Collapse must be met by warmth to the extremities aial to the spine ; and, if requisite, by the administration of ammonia or other stimulant. If a blood-tumor exist, it may be tapped with the aspirator ; or cold, and pres- sure by means of strips of adhesive plaster, may suflice to reduce it. If jieri- tonitis supervene, 0})ium should be given, to an adult, in doses of a grain every four or six hours; warm fomentations should be constantly applied; and twenty or thirty leeches should draw blood from the surface of the aflected part. In young subjects, the same remedies, but in milder measure, are required. Contusions complicated by extravasation or blood may involve the rupture of either of two important sets of vessels: the superficial and the deep. Rupture of the superficial vessels, more especially of the superficial epigastric, may give rise to such considerable extnivasatioii that the skin of the iliac, hypogastric, and umbilical regions, may be of a black color. The blood may pass downwards to the scrotum and thighs, or, owing to rupture of the deep fascia, the extravasation may go on beneath it, and the discolora- tion will then extend beyond Poupart’s ligament, to Avhich the deep fascia is attached. After rupture of the deep vessels, the extravasation will occur beneath the muscles, and between them and the peritoneum, or it may be into the sheath of the rectus. When into the sheath of the rectus, the swelling will be quite circumscribed. When beneath the muscles in the iliac and hy}>o- gastric regions, the effusion is in the cellular tissue over the external surface of the peritoneum, above, on each side of, and below, the pubis. Henneid records a fatal case of this sort in a man aged (JO years, who was run over l>y a carriage. The enforcement of absolute rest, with the constant application of cold, or of evaporating lotions, is the proper treatment in these cases ; rarely will the aspirator be necessary, but if the effision be great and the a1)sorbent powers small, it should be used. Should there be signs of continuing hemor- rhage, and if the source of the bleeding is known or can be shrewdly guessed at, an exploratory incision may allow of the ruptured vessel l.teing ligatured above and below the rent. It must be acknowledged, bowevei’, that cases of the kind are very rare, and, for the most part, have been recognized only on post-mortem examination. There are no symptoms upon which absolute reliance can be })laced; even fainting to syncope cannot do more than lead us to suspect the persistence of bleeding, and this symptom is frequently an attendant upon intra-abdominal injuries in Avhich an exploratory incision would be of no avail. 1 I'rinciples of Military Surgery, p. 102.