515 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE PALATE. and being perfectly well in 1880. In tlie other patient, aged fifty-four, he removed one-half of the tongue, half the soft palate, the side of the pharynx, the submaxillary glands, and part of the lower jaw, for epithelioma, but un- fortunately a recurrence of the disease took place in the neck. Malformations and Diseases of the Palate. Cleft Palate.—Cleft palate occurs in infants otherwise well formed, or in eombinatioii with harelip, and in either case may affect the soft palate only, or both the hard and the soft palates. When harelip is present, the fissure usually extends from the lip through the alveolus and the entire palate; but there are many exceptions, a fissure of the soft palate alone frccpiently accom- panying a single harelip. That both affections are the result of arrest of development in the early weeks of foetal life, cannot be doubted, and that they are hereditary cannot be denied. Still, cases of cleft palate occur in families not known to inherit the malformation, and in the great majority of cases it will be found that the mother has been much out of health iu the early weeks of pregnancy, or that the pregnancy has followed very closely upon a previous one, or has occurred during lactation. The experience of Professor Haughton, of Dublin, first showed, in the case of the larger carnivora, the effect of diet upon the production of cleft palate; and it is very desirable in the case of a parent the subject of the deformity her- self, or having already given birth to a child Avitb cleft palate, that in subse- quent pregnancies every care should be taken to improve her health, and to administer food and medicines calculated to promote the formation of bone. When a harelip and cleft palate are continuous, the latter deformity is sufficiently obvious; but when a cleft palate occurs alone, it may be easily overlooked for the first few hours of life, and the earliest intimation of the malformation may be given by the inability of the infant to suck, and by the fact that milk introduced into its mouth with a spoon returns through the nostrils. Under these circumstances, infants are often allowed to pine away through insufficient feeding, but with proper care this may generally be obviated. A large-sized. India-rubber teat, or an ordinary covered spoon, such as is used for the administration of nauseous medicines, may be used to convey the milk to the gullet; but a much less troublesome and more effectual method is that adopted by Mr. Oakley Coles,^ who attaches a flap of elastic India- rubber to the nipple of an ordinary feeding-bottle. This overlies the nipple, and is introduced into the mouth with it, and, when the infant is suckled, rises up against the cleft and enables the child to swallow. The India-rubber is undoubtedly the cleanest and most effectual flap which can be employed, but I have often directed the use of a leaf-sha})ed piece of kid leather with advantage, when the India-rubber could not be readily procured. Mr. Francis MasoiF has employed a very thin plate of soft metal, moulded to the patient’s moutli, but acknowledges that the instrument is not available in all cases. If no other plan is adopted, the mere closing of the nostrils by the nurse’s finger and thumb, at each efibrt of deglutition, will give material assistance to successful swallowing. The question of surgical interference in cases of cleft palate is one which must be considered as still sub JaiUce. That it is possible to close the entire ' Deformities of tlie Mouth, Congenital and Acquired, with their Mechanical Treatment. Lon- don, 1881. ^ On Harelip and Cleft Palate. London, 1877.