713 bronchotomy; laryygotomy, tracheotomy, etc. incoi’Tectly called sub-hyoid laryngotomy—exposes the upper aperture of the lai-ynx, especially if the epiglottis be drawn out through the wound. It is occasionally performed to extirpate a morbid growth, or to remove a foreign body. Sometimes it is performed in desperation in an emergency, when suf- focation is imminent from inflammatory tumefaction or other obstruction at the top of the air-passage. It is the usual cut of the suicide. It accomplishes the main object of giving air to the lungs, but is not an operation of election. Tracheotomy, the chief operation of the series, is practised for the re- moval of foreign bodies from the air-passages ; for giving air in inflammatory occlusions, acute or chronic, above the points of election; for croup and diphtheria; and as a prophylactic measure permitting temporaiy tamponning of the trachea during bloody operations upon the mouth and face. There are two points of election in tracheotomy, the one above the thyroid gland and the other Ijelow it. The choice is governed by the purpose for which the operation is to Ije performed. Incisions at these localities are known respectively as the high and the low operation. Sometimes the election cannot be made, and the incision must be made right through the gland. Although direct section of the gland is often done with impunity, tlie well-known vas- cularity of its structure naturally indicates the propriety of securing it between two ligatures before it is divided. The Iiigh operation is performed by most surgeons in cases of croup and diphtheria, as being the easier of execution, and the less liable to complication by hemorrliage. Aevcrtheless, from choice or habit, some operators, myself among them, almost invarial:>ly perform the low operation. The low operation, which permits the use of a tube of large calibi’e, is to Ije preferred in all instances of irremcdialfle and otlier serious disease of the larynx, in whidi the artifleial opening has to be kept patent pei’manently or for a long time; because the resulting wound is less liable to implication by extension of morbid jirocesses. The same argu- ment holds gootl, to a certain extent, even in diphtheria. The low incision is also to be preferred in case of impaction of a foreign body in a Ijronchus. Tracheotomy is to be pi-eferred to the meso-chondric operation, or to hiryn- gotomy, in all cases in which a tube has to be worn for a long time; as it avoids interference with the functional exercise of the vocal bands on the one hand, and impairment of tlie solidity of the larynx on the other. So suddenly and urgently does the need for immediate tracheotomy occasionall}' present itself, that every practitioner should become sufliciently familiar with the details of the operation to be able to perform it in an emergency. Being the most important operation of the series of incisions into the air-passage, its description will embrace many features common to all. The special points of the remainder can be mentioned afterwards. I’receding this description, several considerations demand attention. AV^hen, after prolonged dyspnma from obstruction of the air-passage, that passage is opened by an incision, the sudden entrance of a larg'e volume of air seems to surprise the lungs, as it were, and tliere ensues a momentary arrest of respiration, which may be mistaken for its cessation. Familiar as this becomes to the experienced operator, it is a sui-prise to the novice, and may till him with dread lest he should lose his patient at tlie veiy moment of saving life. The question of aneesthesui in these operations is an important one. JMuch as it facilitates the execution of the operation, my o-svn opinion is that it should be avoided whenever jiracticable, epecially in the presence of great obstruction to breathing. AVithafew exceptions, it has not been used Ipy myself for many years, even in childi’cu. Kccovery is better when it has not been used, and imminent immediate dangers are avoided. It is often im-