644 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. through the 'wound, which was just below the vocal hands, up into the mouth, and by see-sawing them forcibly for a few moments at a time. In a case of extensive adhesion of the vocal bands in a case of cut-throat, l)r. Eysell, of Halle, succeeded in etfecting the division with a narrow tenotome passed through the cicatrix.* ** Treatment of ^Votmds of Internal Origin.—If respiration be very much impeded, prophylactic tracheotomy is indicated in this class of wounds, as in those of external origin, and for like reasons. Foreign bodies must be removed; whether by the aid of laryngoscopic manipulation, or by gaining direct access externally, will depend upon conditions which will be discussed hereafter. If there be great tendency to hemorrhage, the tampon-canula instead of the naked instrument, should be inserted into the tracheotomy wound. Locally, cold externally, ice-pellets in tlie mouth, and sedative inha- lations in spray, are indicated to repress inflammation and allay pain. To- pical applications of solutions of morphia or of aconite are useful when the pain is severe. II. Burns and Scalds of the Larynx and Trachea. Burns and scalds of the larynx and trachea are usually associated with similar injuries to the mouth, tongue, palate, nasal passages, pharynx, or oesophagus. Bimis are most frequently produced by the inhalation of flame, hot steam, or the heated air and smoke of burning houses or ships. They are often associated with burns of the head, neck, arms, and chest, and sometimes with burns over large portions of the body. Scalds are usually due to the voluntary or involuntary deglutition of hot and caustic fluids. Some scalds from caustic substances in adults are suicidal. Scalds were formerly quite prevalent in England among the children of the poor, who, having been accustomed to drink cold water from the spout of a tea-kettle, endeavored to ([uench their thirst while the vessel contained boiling water.^ When flame or hot air is inhaled, and when hot or caustic fluid is swal- lowed unknowingly, the larynx is much more likely to lie involved than when the drink is taken designedly. In the latter case, the epiglottis pro- tects the larynx as usual from ingress of lluid, and the injury is sustained chiefly in the mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus—sometimes even in the sto- mach—the act of deglutition having been completed despite any pain or spasm. In unwitting deglutition, however, the epiglottis is surprised, as it were, and fails to occlude the larynx efficiently, so that that organ sustains the brunt of the injury. It is contended, too, that an involuntary inspiration draws the caustic fluid into the larynx. Spasm of the glottis takes place, as a rule, protecting the subglottic portion of the larynx; for the portion beloAv the vocal bands is often found normal in post-mortem examination after these accidents,^ the injury having been confined to the upper part. Swallowing is rarely completed under the circumstances just indicated, and regurgitation takes place in part through the nasal ])assages, thus injuring the mucous membrane of that region and of the adjoining retro-nasal portion of file pharynx. In su])port of the statement that hot and caustic fluids taken accidentally are rarely swallowed, it may be mentioned that, on consulting the records of * Med. Times and Gaz., October 17, 1874; Am. Joiirn. Med. Sci., January, 1875, p. 275. ** Marshall Hall, Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xii. London, 1822 ; and others. “ For recent examples, see Davies-Colley, Med. Times and Gaz., February 18, 1882.