85 INJURIES OP THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. Mr. Hiilke reports the following cases:— A boy aged 13, whose forehead had been grazed by a push against an iron fence, was trephined by me seven weeks after the accident, incomplete hemiplegia having supervened. The graze had festered, healed slowly, and left a tender scar. From the time of the injury there had been more or less severe lieadache ; and latterly nausea and retching. The pulse was unnaturally slow and the temperature subnormal. The trephine was put on at the site of the injury on the right of the middle line of the foi-e- head. The outer table was found slightly starred, but the cracks did not reach the inner surface of the bone. The dura mater, whicli appeared to be healthy, bulged up tensely into the bone-hole An aspirator-trocar, connected with an exhausted syringe, was pushed through it, and when this had reached the depth of about one inch, greenish pus was drawn up. The abscess was then freely opened with a narrow scalpel, and a quantity of pus, estimated at from three to four duidounces, escaped. The hemiplegia soon disappeared ; the other symptoms less quickly. Optic neuritis supervened and ended in blindness. Several months afterwards, whilst in the blind school, the patient had epileptiform tits. He was kept in view during several years, and, when last seen, was a very intelligent, well grown youth.* A laborer, aged about 60 years, was recently admitted into the Middlesex Hospital, under my care, a fortnight after being struck a glancing blow on the right temple by a falling ladder, which stunned him for a few minutes and caused a considerable bruise. He continued, nevertheless, to work as usual until the middle of the third day, when the headache which he had had from the time of the accident became very severe—so severe that his wife feared he would go out of his mind. When taken into hospital he described the pain as darting from the seat of the blow (marked by a slight discoloration) through his head. The pulse was 56, and the tempera ture slightly below the normal average. His mind was unclouded. About one week afterwards, he became insensible in the night, and in the morning the right up[)er and lower limbs were found absolutely palsied as regarded motion, and neaidy so as regarded sensation. When the right arm or thigh was severely pinched, he gave scarcely any sign of consciousness of it, but shrank slightly when the left arm or leg was pinched similarly. Two days subsequently, spastic rigidity of the left arm supervened. His wife, who had till now obstinately refused any surgical interference, permitted trephining. A small disk of bone beneath the bruised S[)ot in the right temple was cut out. It appeared uninjured and healthy. The dura mater bulged up so tensely into the bone-hole that [udsation could neither be seen nor felt. The exposed surface of the membrane appeared healthy. An aspirator-needle, connected with an exhausting syringe, was pushed through it to a depth of about one and a quarter inches. A brownish, turbid fluid rose up into the receiver, and continued to flow through the prick-hole after tlie needle was withdrawn. The minute o[)ening was enlarged with the scal})el, and a considerable quantity of fluid escaped. The fla[)S which had been reflected were replaced, and the wound was very lightly dressed with a little boric charpie. An hour afterwards he asked for food. Next morning the spastic rigidity of the left arm had gone. On the second day slight return of [)Ower was noticed in tlie right limbs, and before the end of a week their palsy had disappeared. For a very few days after the operation, the charpie was wetted and discolored by the fluid which continued to ooze ; but this oozing soon ceased, the wound soon healed, and two months from the date of the opei’ation the patient appeared quite well.'* Ill some cases, even less operative interference may be necessary, owing to the slongliy condition of the dura mater and of the superjacent brain-sub‘ stance. Thus Mr. ITulke gives the following account of a case undei’ his charge;—• A midille-aged woman, having fallen down in a fit in a neighboring street, if'as brought to the Middlesex Hos()ital. She was unconscious, and her left arm and leg were rigidly flexed. On the right temple was a small festering wound, leading to 1 Medico-Cliirnrg. Trans., vol. Ixii. p. 367. ® Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol i. p. 628.