INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 264 possible rotation, noted before, has been positively I’educed, tbe muscle has been completely severed. Otlierwdse, perhaps not, and the wound must be explored further, and the eye then tested again. As a rule, I desire to see enough power left in the internus to bring tlie edge of the cornea to, or even a tride beyond, the punctum. Should the movement inwards be more limited, the judicious use of a suture will be recpiired, but in most cases this will not be needed. The instruments necessary for this operation are a stop-speculum (Fig. 860), a pair of toothed forceps for picking up the conjunctiva, two stra- bismus hooks, a large and a small (Fig. 874), and blunt but very sharp scissors (Fig. 875). The scissors may be straight, or bent on the edge. I prefer them straight. A very soft, clean sponge is likewise to be provided. Then comes the question of ether. For a great many years, I have very rarely used chloroform, and only when there was peculiar trouble in securing complete angesthesia. Ether must be pushed rapidly, and the air excluded, else thorough insensibility cannot be produced. This is the only way to secure the needed quiet, at the least risk to life ; and if the first moment of sudden unconscious- ness be seized for the operation, the patient need not take much ether, nor be kept long under its influence. In all cases in adults, I urge that anaesthesia be not employed. The operation is quickly over, not very painful, and free from danger, and we can then at once test the effect secured by the tenotomy. "With timid people, who have no self-control or confidence, and with children, we cannot do without an ansesthetic. The patient should lie on his back, on a lounge or operating chair, with the head tlirown slightly backwards. When the stop-speculum is adjusted, the first steps of the operation are facilitated by forced rotation of the eye directly outwards. This is effected by an assistant, who fixes the eye near the outer margin of tiie cornea, in the horizontal meridian. Great care must be taken not to rotate the globe on its antero-posterior diameter, else the relation of the incision to the tendon will be altered. I generally employ the subconjunc- tival operation. The conjunctiva is seized with the small toothed forceps, about three or four mm. from the inner edge of the cornea, and as nearly as pos- sible over the lower edge of the expanded tendon to be detached; and it is then divided with the scissors, horizontally backwards, far enough to afford room for the further steps of the operation. It is next detached by a few movements of the points of the scissors over the seat of the tendon. Then letting go tlie conjunctiva, the capsule of Tenon is seized through the con- juncttval opening, the forceps being pressed with a little firmness on the sclera, and is opened and detached to the same extent. The forceps still holding and raising the detached conjunctiva and cajisule, the large hook is next passed in,.pushed backwards, and the point swept from below up- wards under the tendon, being pressed firmly on the sclera in this movement. This is the most difficult and important manoeuvre, next to detaching the tendon, and its successful execution greatly simplifies the rest of the proce- dure. The firm resistance felt, when the expanded tendon is thus gathered in the concavity of the hook, is the assurance that it has been secured. Fig. 874, Fig. 875, Strabismus books. Strabismus scissors.