60 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. blood in varying quantity, besides that poured out into the meshes of the pia mater. Sir P. Hewett reports that in sixty-nine autopsies of more or less severe brain contusions, “ independent of compound fractures,” intra- arachnoid blood-extravasations were found in fifty-two, thirty-one of these being very extensive. In eleven cases, blood was found infiltrating the pia mater for'some distance beyond the actual brain lesion, and in six instances “■ the extravasation was widespread.” In the remaining six cases only, was the extravasation in the pia mater insignificant in amount, and limited solely to the site of the brain-injury. The whole cerebral mass is not equally liable to contusion, some portions being almost constantly bruised in severe head-injuries, while others ai’e so rarely afiected as to be almost exempt. This statement is true as autop- sies are usually conducted, hut it is of importance to note that those por- tions of the encephalon said to be most rarely injured, such as the pons, crura, and medulla oblongata, may present at the autopsy no external evidences of injuiy, while careful sections will demonstrate well-marked spots of extra- vasation. From this fact I am inclined to think that many extravasations are overlooked, especially as Duret has experimentally shown that the floor of the fourth ventricle is peculiarly apt to be injured when severe blows are inflicted upon the head.^ The medulla oblongata and the crura of the cere- bellum and cerebrum are but rarely the seat of extravasations, and when so injured, intra-arachnoid extravasations are apt to coexist. The pons Varolii is an occasional but rare site of bruising. The cerebellum is quite commonly contused, its under-surface being that portion which is usually injured. The ecchymotic spots are usually small, superficial, and confined to one lobe, although larger extravasations into the deeper parts have been observed, as in a case mentioned by Ilewett, or as in one of Blandin’s, where multiple minute spots were found scattered through- out the organ. These injuries are a})t to accompany lacerations and contu- sions of other portions of the brain, although they may be occasioned by slight injuries, such as a drunkard’s fall in the street. The cerebrum is more commonly bruised upon its under surface than elsewhere. The extent of injury varies from a few ])atches of contusion to an extensive bruising of the entire surface of one, or even of two lobes at the same time.^ Both the cortical and medullary structures may be extensively involved, to such an extent as even to lay open one of the lateral ventricles. The extent of injury done to the cerebral substance is not always commen- surate with the degree of force applied. Thus, a case is reported, where, after a fall from a height of only about eight feet, extensive bruising and laceration of the anterior lobes of botli hemispheres occurred, and produced a tear into the right lateral ventricle large enough to readily admit the finger. In addition, the deeper portions of the cerebrum may be bruised; and this, too, in some instances, without any injury to the exterior of the organ, or at least without injury corresponding in position to tliat of the deeper parts. Any portion of the brain is liable to injury, which may be so limited in extent as to escape anything but the closest scrutiny. The septum lucidum was in one case found bruised and torn for nearly its whole length, with spots ■ A case is reported in the Lancet for Nov. 30, 1878 (page 769), from the practice of Verneuil, in which sudden death followed a severe head-injury, and in which the autopsy revealed sub- arachnoid hemorrhage at the “bulb and protuberance.” On opening the fourth ventricle, a small central focus of hemorrhage was found in its floor, with two others, one on either side of the median line. These appearances are precisely those observed in Duret’s experiments on concussion. ^ The term lobe here is used in the sense of the older anatomists, where each hemisphere is divided into an anterior, middle, and posterior lobe.