64 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. The cerebral tissue, in the neighborhood of these cavities, and forming their walls, had a perfectly healthy appearance. There were no remains of blood extravasated in the cavity of the arachnoid ; the other parts of the brain were perfectly healthy, and so, too, was the brain-case ; no traces of fracture ; no sign of injury to the bones. The patient died of aneurism of the subclavian artery, at the age of forty-eight, but twenty years before his death, when I was house-surgeon, he had been admitted into St. George’s Hospital with several other men, all of whom had fallen a great height in con- sequence of the giving way of some scatFolding. At the time of his admission he was suffering from several severe injuries ; and especially of the head, marked by the symp- toms of so-called concussion of the brain, but there was no sign of fracture of any part of the skull. For several days he struggled between life and death, in a state of per- fect unconsciousness, followed by violent delirium, which ultimately, however, subsided, and in a few weeks he was so far well that he was able to leave the hospital. After a while he resumed his occupation, that of a house decorator, and for years he worked for one of the best firms in London, and was known as one of their ablest workmen. His intellect was as clear as it had ever been, and whesi I accidentally met him, from time to time, he always said that he did not suiFer more from headaches than other people. Treatment.—The chief danger is that of encephalitis, against which all our efforts are to be directed. As inffamniation of the brain and its mem- branes, after such injuries, is apt to pursue an insidious course, every head injury Avhich presents indications that the intracranial contents have suffered even in a minor degree, should he most assiduously watched, as traumatic inti’acranial inflammation often suddenly declares itself, after a number of days of deceptive calm. Usually the incipient indications show themselves not later than the fifth day, hut their advent is sometimes much longer de- layed.^ The therapeutic measures to be adopted ai-e those recommended for warding off encephalitis, and when these efforts fail, those advised for intra- cranial inflammation should he instituted. III. Compression of the Brain.—Any diminution in the capacity of the cranium must, from the presence of the cereln’o-spinal fluid, exert an effect at all points occupied h}^ that fluid. This increased tension compresses the vessels, and, by the consequent aiuemia, causes disturbances of the functions of the encephalon. Theoreticall}", when this tension equals that of the blood in the vessels, death results. This point, probably, can never l)e reached except 111 experiments, as Buret has shown that the ^^ascular spasm produced h}^ irritation of the sensory nerves, or their centres, at once enormously increases the intra-vascular tension. He has shown that a clot amounting to one-twelfth of the cranial capacity, between the dura mater and the bone, will produce coma and death in a few hours. In the arachnoid cavity, liow- ever, a clot of one-sixth or even one-fifth the bulk of the cranial cavity is requisite for a lethal effect. These results are only true when no lesion of the nerve-centres coexists. Although not by any means scientifically accurate, “ compression of the brain” is a term so commonly used as to need no apolog}’. Its causes are exceedingly various. Thus a foreign body, such as a bullet lodged in the brain, depressed bone, extravasation upon the surface or into the substance of tlie brain, and frequently all the last three, coexisting, may produce symp- toms of compression which are then usually primaiy. Inflammatory pro- ducts, viz., serum, lymph, and juis, are causes of secondary compression. Syraytoms.—Due as these are to such varied and often combined conditions, there are only a few symptoms which are always present. Before insensi- bility comes on, pain in the head is complained of, doubtless the result of pres- 1 See section on Pacliymengitis, Arachnitis, etc., p. 74, infra.