856 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. Rupture of some of the abdominal muscles may complicate contusion. The rectus is more prone to rupture than the Hat muscles of the abdominal Avails. This accident may occur from direct or indirect violence; a Auolent and abrupt bloAv upon a healthy muscle in a state of extreme tension, or a slight bloAA^ upon a muscle enfeebled by typhoid or other tWer, or an}" debili- tating illness, may cause it; so, also, may some \dolent, A’oluntary muscular etfort, made to escape the force of some contusing body. As soon as the fibres are ruptured they retract, leaving a gap or interspace Avhich is soon filled up with blood. After a varying period this blood becomes absorbed, and the gap becomes again apparent. If adhesive inflammation does not repair the breach, the parietes are here permanently Aveakened, and a ventral hernia Avill in all probability result. Guthrie Avas of opinion that a severe bloAV on tlie abdomen might lead to absorption of the muscle at the spot injured, and this in turn conduce to hernia, Avithout any actual rupture of the muscular fibres; and lie has given cases Avhich he believed to support this vieAv. It is possible, hoAvever, that in these and other cases actual rupture did really occur, but A\"as not detected oAving to the rapid effusion of blood into the rent in the muscle. I might refer in detail to cases of ruptured rectus associated (1) with contusion of the parietes alone, and (2) with contusion of the parietes and rupture of abdominal viscera, but this is unnecessary for the sake of illustra- tion. Ruptures of abdominal muscles, especially of the rectus, during slight or moderate muscular effort in feA^ers, and in the Adolent contractions of deli- rium, have also been observed. Other cases of ruptured abdominal muscle occur from contusion Avithout any lesion of the integuments, but Avith lace- ration, detachment, or contusion of the peritoneum. The treatment in all such cases is the same; namely, to relax the muscles so as to approximate the separated edges, and to maintain them in contact, if possible, during repair. Should a ventral hernia occur, a Avell-adjusted, flat or slightly concave truss, Avell padded, and retained by means of a suitable belt and buckle, AAdth brace-straps if necessary, should be Avorn. Contusion avith Pulpefaction of Injured Parts.—Contusion may be so excessive that entire pulping or disorganization of the contused parts may occur, and gangrene be the absolute result. In this complication repair can only take place after the destroyed tissues have been cast off' by the process of sloughing. If the injury be superficial, and if the process iiiA’olve only the skin, a superficial, cellular-tissue cicatrization Avill soon commence; but if the disorganized tissues l)e deep, and the skin but little or not at all affected, inflammation and suppuration occur, loosening the gangrenous parts and also attacking the overlying structures, until abscesses are opened and sloughs removed througli the incisions made. The abdominal Avails are left Aveak; and hernial protrusions folloAV the tardy completion of the heal- ing process. The treatment of this complication is the same as that required for the separation of gangrenous tissues in other parts of the body: the strength of the patient must be kept up, opium must be giA’en to allay pain and irritaliility, the appetite must be improved by the use of cpiinine or ammonia and bark, and Avarm fomentations and antiseptic applications must be liberally sup^tlied to the parts involved. Inflammation by no means seldom folloAvs contusions of the abdomen, and it may be either superficial or deep, according to the position of the contused tissues; or it may extend from one stratum to another of the ab- dominal Avails. It is attended Avitb all the common phenomena of inflamma- tion in similar tissues in other parts of the body.