35 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. Hemorrhage from the pharynx is often from the vessels of the mucous membrane; but in one case, mentioned by Aran, the internal jugular was torn, producing almost instant death. Pharyngeal hemorrhage, or vomiting of piood—this fluid, when retained in the stomach for any time, presenting, when ejected, the appearance of coffee-grounds—is of much less value than either orbital or aural hemorrhage. ^V^hen profuse, persistent, and the result of violent, diffused force, with accompanying cerebral symptoms, it may prove useful in determining the nature of a doubtful case. Bleeding from the phar- ynx, or vomiting of blood, may proceed not from fracture of the vault of the pharynx or roof of the nose, but from a fracture of the petrous bone without rupture of the membrana tympani, so that blood entering the tympanic cavity escapes into the pharynx by the Eustachian tube. iJolbeau has pointed out a rarely-observed sym})tom of fractured base, viz., ecchymosis extending over the posterior pharyngeal wall from the occipital bone to the upper cer- vical vertebne. It is most ditiicult of detection, being generally concealed by the palate. Bleeding from the ears is the most valuable of the symptoms of fractured base, provided that it be profuse and prolonged, and that a recent rupture of the membrana tympani can be detected. With such conditions after a severe head injury, accompanied by cerebral symptoms, a diagnosis of basal fracture can be safely made ; for copious and prolonged hemorrhage indicates a fracture traversing the petrous bone, which has opened oneof the largervascular trunks, as bleeding from those of tire mucous membrane would soon spontaneously cease.* In one case, already mentioned, from fifty to sixty ounces escaped by the ear in the course of a few hours.^ Aran refers to two cases where post-mortem examination demonstrated a tear of the lateral sinus, and other such cases are on record. *The flow of blood may continue from two to three or more days. Ilewett reports dissections of thirty-two cases of fracture involving tlie middle fossa, in fifteen of wliich there had been a free, steady hemorrhage from the ear. In these the tympanum was traversed by tlie fracture, and tlie membrana tympani ruptured. In twelve cases, however, the fracture did not involve the tympanum, and in the remaining five the tympanum was fractured, but the membrana tympani was unruptured. If, therefore, in a suspected case the membrana tympani be found upon examination, to be sound and non-bulging, and to present none of the appearances of blood being effused into the tympaiuc cavity—that is, change of color of the rlrundiead by tlie blood showing through—the fracture, if any exists, can be said not to have involved that portion of the petrous bone in which lie the internal and middle ear, and must involve the apex alone. Wliere a fracture of the petrous bone opens one of the large venous sinuses and into the tympanum, as before said, hemorrhage may take place from the nose or mouth, or blood may lie vomited. Indeed, this sometimes may occur even with a ruptured membrana tympani. The pf)ssibility of this double hemorrhage arising from a fracture of the petrous bone alone, and not from one of the bones forming the roof of the- nose or pharynx, must not be for- gotten in making the diagnosis, lest greater cranial injury lie supposed to exist than in reality has occui-red. Filtration of blood into the cellular tissue of the occipiUd, region^ or into the subcutaneous tissue of the lateral parts of the neck, may take place in basal fracture, [iroducing an appearance as il' liruisiug had there occurred. If ' Tlie very exceptional case mentioned liy Erichsen, where a hlow upon the jaw broke the external auditory ineatns, and produced’a free flow of blood from the ear, is so unlikely to occur again as not to invalidate the statements which 1 have made. ^ Lockwood, Am. Jour. Med. Sc., April, 181)11, j). 354.