1112 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. had also had daily evacuations of the hoAveis, the stools being firm and brown. Billroth’s case was also one of cancer of the pylorus, too far advanced for removal. The operation was apparently carried out in the same Avay; it Avas easy of performance, and lasted only an hour. The patient, lioAvever, Avas seized Avith biliary vomiting, Avhich continued till he died on the tenth da}'. An explanation of the vomiting Avas found aftei’ death: there Avas no peritonitis ; hut the result of draAving the intestine tOAvards the stomach had been to form a spur Avhich divided the opening between the tAvo A’iscera into tAvo unequal }>arts, the larger of Avhich communicated Avith the proximal portion of the intestine. The result of this Avas that the bile and pancreatic secretion, instead of passing into the intestine, were ])Oured into the stomach, and the consequence Avas that Avhicli has been described. The author points out the necessity of making sure, to begin Avith, AAdiich is the proximal, and Avhich the distal portion of the coil of intestine selected, and then of taking care that a thorouglily free communication shall exist hetAveen the latter and the stomach, Avhile the former shall be, in a Avay, valved by making the stomach-Avall overlap it. He also suggests that this method of procedure may possibly prove of value in cases of malignant groAvth in connection with the intestine.’ Digital Dilatation or the Bylorus.—Professor Loreta, of Bologna, has projtosed and performed forcible dilatation of the i)ylorie orifice in [four] cases of simple stricture. A longitudinal incision through the abdominal parietes on the riglit of the linea alba, enabled the surgeon to reach and draw IbrAvard the stomach, Avhich Avas then incised neai- to the pylorus. Through the gastric Avound, the right index linger aatis jiassed on through the pylorus, after forcibly dilating it. The Avounds Avere then closed in the usual manner. Complete relief folloAved the operation in [three] cases, and the first patient is known to have lieen alive and in good health five months after the operation, hut hoAv long the improvement Avas maintained is not knoAvn. [Death fol- loAved in one case, as it did in another in AAdiich Giomini Avas the operator.] It is a measure Avhich, for simple strictures, seems to offer a fair prospect of success. The folloAving is the report of I’rof. Loreta’s first case, as given in the Lancet of August 18, 1883, p. 289. Nicola C., aged 47, bad suffered for the greater part of twenty years from imperfect digestion, distension of the stomach, sense of weight, and occasional vomiting. In 1878 he had been admitted into the Bologna Medical Clinique, and treated for ulcer of the stomach. Relief had ensued, but oidy for a short time. Eructation, a burning feeling in the throat, vomiting of undigested food, sometimes mixed Avith blood, increasing emaciation, and pallor of the skin and mucous membranes were noted. The man subsisted on a little milk. The distended stomach gave a clear note on percussion, from the fifth rib to the umbilicus. IMicroscopic examination of tlie fluid drawn by j)ump from the stomach yielded no evidence of organic lesion. On palpating the emptied stomach, a tumor could be felt in the pyloric region, Avith smooth and elastic surface, but not A'ery Avell defiiud limits. As the patient Avas steadily sinking, Professor Loreta, on September 14, 1882, operated in tlie presence of numerous colleagues. Dr. Alfonso Poggi administered chloroform; the stomach Avas Avashed out Avith an alkaline solution ; the incision into the abdominal AA’all Avas commenced a little to the riglit of the linea alba, and extended out- Avards and doAViiAAards for six inches ; the loAver angle Avas an inch and a quarter from the ninth right costal cartilage. In the incision Avere included the oblique and transverse muscles, and also a part of the rectus. On reaching the peritoneum the Professor stopped to tie some arteries and to arvait the complete arrest of bleeding from the edges of the ' The foregoing account of the operation is taken from the Medical Times and Gazette, Decem- ber 3, 1881.