096 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. anatomy, tlmt it is to a great extent impossible to group tliem, and each seems to stand aloof from the others, as an isolated, or at anj' rate as an excep- tional condition. On this account, and because too, as Dr. Fagge* has re- marked, they do not yield specimens which can be shown to advantage at a ]Pathological Society, they have not succeeded in gaining for themselves a place in systematic ivorks on medicine or surgery. It is well, therefore, to reter to them, since, doing so “must necessarily suggest to the mind of eveiy reader, the im])ortant fact that in practice the abdomen may be found atfected with other diseases besides those which are ordinarily enumerated under the heading of diagnosis in a treatise on medicine.” (Fagge.) Causes.—Peritonitis, which may even have been general, leads in some part of the abdominal cavity to a circumscribed collection of pus, and it is not always easy to say whether the peritonitis has been idiopathic, or due to some local cause, even though search be made after death. Often, however, there is a definite history of a blow, kick, sprain, or other injury having excited the peritonitis, and in some cases it has been ascer- tained that the injuiy had ruptured some part of the abdominal oi’gans.^ In other eases, the peritonitis has followed some accident of parturition, and has loft behind an abscess in some distant part of the abdomen; or an abscess in the left hypochondrium has resulted from a general p)uerperal peritonitis. (Fagge, Case II.) Other causes have been cancer of the stomach or intes- tines, simple and dysenteric ulcers of the gastro-intestinal tube, gall-stones, and various other conditions which have led to inflammation with adhesions, and then to su]ipuration of the surrounding or adjacent peritoneum. Some- times a visceral abscess situated near the surface of the organ will give rise to a circumscribed peritoneal abscess. I have before me now the post-mortem record of a case in the ^Middlesex Hospital, in which dysenteric ulceration of the colon had given rise to multiple hepatic abscesses, mostlj’ near the surface of the liver, these in turn liaving caused a large circumscribed peri-hepatic abscess between the diaphragm and liver, the convex surface of which organ had been so pressed upon by the outside abscess as to have become concave. 1 )iseases connected with the appendix cceci,^ the ovaries, uterus, bladder, or kidneys, are other exciting causes, and the abscesses thus excited may or may not open into the colon, rectum, sigmoid flexure, caecum, vagina, or bladder. I have repeatedly had under my care patients with uterine cancer, Avho, in the' later stages of their illness, have suffered from peritonitic pain and tenderness, and from the formation of a prominent and hard tumor in the hypogastrium ; at the post-mortem examination the uterus is found to have been more or less—sometimes entirely—removed by ulceration, ivhen a large abscess-cavity, with stiidcing, ill-colored, turbid, fluid contents occupies its place. This offensive cavity is shut off from the general peritoneal cavity by coils of small intestine matted together, so as to form its roof. There is beside, in these cases, general peritonitis, and thougb, from the character of the matter, fecal extravasation is suggested, this is commonly demonstrated not to have been present. I am now quite alive to this condition, and should always suspect it in cases of uterine cancer where there has been much discharge, and where a hypogastric tumor, developing in the late stage, is attended l)y ' Cases of Abscess witliiu the upper part of the Abdomen. Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d series, vol. xix. p. 213. 2 See a case recorded by Mr. Cresar Hawkins (Trans. Path. Soc. bond., vol. i. p. 150), in which there were tw'o circumscribed peritoneal abscesses, one fecal, and the other, in the left hypochoii- drium, communicating with an abscess in the left pleural cavity through a traumatic rupture of the diaphragm. 3 See a case by Dr. F. Taylor, in Guy’s Hosp. Reports, vol. xix. p. 2(i6. Several circumscribed collections of pus were found within the peritoneal cavity, and due to this cause.