465 HARELIP. Demarquay reports the case of a family in which, in three generations, eleven persons had either harelip or malformation of the lower lip.^ The treatment of harelip consists in paring the margins of the fissure, bringing the two raw surfaces into close contact with each other, and holding them together by sutures until the two sides of the lip have become firmly united. This is a comparatively easy matter Avhen the fissure is both single and simple, when the two sides of the lip are nearly symmetrical, Avhen they are nearly parallel, and when they are not Avidely separated from each other. But under less favorable conditions, it is often a matter of great difficulty to secure union of the tAvo sides of the lip Avithout some remaining deformity. Without great care on the part of the surgeon, there is apt to be a Avant of conformity in the line of the vermilion border on the tAvo sides of the lip, and there is often a more or less conspicuous notch in its free border. It is very important, in order to insure the complete success of the ope- ration, that the tAvo sides of the lip should be l)rought together Avithout tension, and that they should he maintained in close contact Avhile, at the same time, the sutures are so applied as not to make injurious pressure. In the simplest and most favorable cases, the folloAving are the steps of the operation. A broad bandage is applied around the child’s trunk and upper extremities, so as to prevent him from moving his hands during the ope- ration. lie is then placed upon a table or on the lap of an assistant, brought under the full infiuence of an anaisthetic, and ke}>t in a su})ine }iosi- tion. A needle armed Avith a strong thread is next passed through the lip near the junction of one side of the fissure Avith the A^erniilion border, and the tAvo ends of the thread are tied so as to form a loop about six inches in length. Another thread in like manner is passed on the other side of tlie fissure, and its ends secured in the same Avay. These loops facilitate the suhserpient steps of the operation, Ijy enabling the surgeon or his assistant to make traction in any required direction. The tAVO sides of the lip are then draAvn together, and if any resistance is ottered to their close a}qiroximation, a free division of the mucous membrane and of the sulnnucous cellular tissue is made on either side with scissors curved on the fiat, until the resistance is completely overcome. The sides of the fissure are uoav to be pared so as to present broad surfaces denuded of integument. This is l»est accomplished l>y making down\yard traction by means of the loop of thread on one side of the fissure, and then inserting a Beer’s cataract knife through the lip just above the loop, Avith its cutting edge looking upward, and cutting up toAvards the nose. The knife is then inserted on the other side of the fissure, and the incision completed in the same manner. It is not usually necessary to tie any vessels, as the lip can be compressed betAveen the thumb and finger of an assistant until the surgeon is ready to apply the sutures. The edges of the Avound are to be brought together by a pin ]>assei[ throug;h the tAA'o divisions of the lip, midway between its free border and the nose. The pin sliould enter on one side and emerge on the other aliout seven or eight mm. from the margin of the fissure, and should }ienetrate the Avhole thickness of the lip, except the mucous membrane. A numlier of turns of darning cotton should then be passed around the ends of the pin in the form of the figure 8. Tbe sides of the lip should be brought together so that the tAvo lateral portions of the vernnlion border should e.xactly correspond. A second pin should he applied in the same man- ner at the junction of the skin Avith the vermilion border on each side. A third suture, of fine silk, should be a[)plied neai’ the junction of the lip Avith the nose. A fourtli suture, also of fine silk, may be a})plied through the Amr- milion border, and a fifth through tlie mucous menfijrane. The two last VOL. V.—30 See Med. Record, Oct.l, 1808, p. 348.