421 TUMORS OF THE NOSE. nature ; exceptions exist, it is true, especially in the case of multiple groMhlis, and those of great size, Avhich involve neighboring cavities; here much care and repeated examinations are necessary to establish a correct diagnosis. Certain facts, if borne in mind, will serve to elucidate the problem, and these are so clearly stated in the valuable essay of Mackenzie,* that I here take the liberty of presenting them in part, in a condensed form, and Avith certain additions. The softness, elasticity, mobility, and pale translucent appearance of mu- cous polypi contrast strongly A\dth the liardness, opacity, fixedness, and deeper red color of other tumoi’s. Fibroid, sarcomatous and malignant for- mations usually bleed, even when gently touched. Cartilaginous and osseous groAvths are heavy and dense, and offer such a sense of resistance to the probe that their real nature is at once apparent. The probe Avill also enable the surgeon to distinguish the chronic thickening of the mucous membrane covering the inferior turbinated hone, met Avith in hypertrophic nasal catarrh, from polypus. In the former case, the absence of a pedicle, the consistence, and the gradual blending of the outgroAvth Avith the structures around the base, assist the difierential diagnosis. The possibility of the existence of a deflected septum, and of the blood tumors and abscess of the latter, elscAvliere described, must not be forgotten, as they are perhaps calculated to deceive the inexperienced observer. Mucous distension of the ethmoidal cells is mentioned likewise by Watson^ as a possiI)le source of diagnostic error. Fibromata may he distinguished from mucous polypi, not #nly by the cha- racteristics of both, mentioned above, hut also by their lack of the hygro- metric cpiality. They are generally harder, sloAver in groAvth, and more distinctly pedunculated than sarcomatous and cancerous groAvths. The absence of cachexia, and of involvement of the lymphatic glands, sei’ves also to diflerentiate them from the last. Cartilaginous groAvths are never pedunculated, seldom ulcerated, and present more smoothness of surface, Avith symmetrical, globular outline, than otlier forms of tumor. The touch alone is suflicient to establish the nature of an osseous tumor; Avhile sarcoma can only be contounded Avith carcinoma. Mackenzie says that in the nose it is much more frerpieut than the latter, and can generally he recognized by its occurring at an earlier age, and by its displaying a much milder type of malignancy. Finally, in regard to cancer—for the other groAvths alluded to as occurring in the nose, but not here mentioned, occur so vei’y rarely that, practically, they are of hut little importance in relation to ditferential diagnosis—there is, unfortunately, no room for doubt Avhen the disease has once commenced to progress ; its rapid growth and ecpially rapid ulceration, and the Avidespread destruction Avhich it causes, tell the true story of the distinctive malignancy of this form of neoplasm. Mucous Polypus or Myxoaia.—The gelatinoid or mucous polypus is by far the most frerpieut variety of tumor encountered in the nasal passages, occur- ring more frerpiently than all of the other forms combined. VieAVS as to its causation vary. An enlargement of the acinous glands, Avith attendant hy- pertrophy of the submucous tissues and covering mucous membrane, Avith serous infiltration, so that the membrane is pushed or draAvn out by the gradual increase of the growth into a narroAv jicdicle, and this as the result of rc[)eated inflammatory attacks, or chronic nasal catarrh, is pi-oliably the common cause; in other avoiaIs, it may be regarded as a localized hypertro- phy. An adenomatous variety is not unusual. Gruner and I’ott attribute ’ Lectures on Diseases of the Nose. Lancet, July 28, Aug. 25, Nov. 10, 1877. ^ Diseases of the Nose, j). 72. London, 1875.