617 SURGICAL AFFECTIOXS OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Parotid Fistula.—Steno’s duct may become occluded either by adhesions following acute inflammation—as in violent salivation, or during the healing of wounds—or bj" calculi (phosphatic) which sometimes form within it. A more or less complete arrest of the flow of saliva will result, and an oval fluc- tuating tumor Avill form in the line of the duct. The size of this cyst-like tumor Avill probably be seen to increase during mastication, and, if it burst externally, a salivary fistula may be established. Fistnhe may either be con- nectetl with the parotid itself, and be placed over some part of its surface, or in its neighborhood though beyond its limits ; or they may open into Steno’s duct.* The orifice of the fistula may be so small as to be difficult of detection unless it be elevated, as it sometimes is, on a small papilla, or sunk into a little pit, or unless it be red and irritated by the discliarge, so as to mark its presence. The floAV of the saliva may be readily increased by the patient cheAving some pungent substance, or placing a bit of lemon on tlie tongue, and then the distillation of the sali\"a liy the orifice may be seen, and the nature of the secretion exactly determined by chemical tests. If the external orifice is large enough to alloAV of a colored injection (milk, or a solution of iodine) being throAvn along the duct info the mouth, or in the reverse Avay, or of a probe being passed through it, then all doubt Avill be removed. Small fistulfe connected Avith the gland are usually cured easily, if seen early. In truth, they not unfrerpiently close spontaneously, if any olistruction Avhich Avas present is removed, but fistulous orifices connected Avith Steno’s duct, especially if long open, are very difficult to rectify. The ap|flication of A’arious caustics, especially a pointed piece of lunar caustic, is a favorite and simple remedy Avhicli in slight cases may succeed, especially if combined with well-adjusted pressure and rest to the part. The galvanic cautery at a Ioav heat, or a hot needle, is hoAvever more reliable. All sorts of injections have also been used—^Avine, alcohol, caustic solutions, iron, iodine, etc.—l)ut little advantage folloAvs their employment. In fistula of the duct an infinite nundjer of remedies have been suggested. Some aim at re-establishing the duct, if partially or Avholly closed; some aim at forming a ncAv orifice for the duct within the mouth ; some try to arrest the secretion of the saliva by destroy- ing the parotid gland ; and others employ various methods for merely closing the 0[iening on the cheek by plastic or other operations. If the duct is obstructed betAveen the fistulous opening and the mouth, a fine leaden probe, or a firm piece of catgut, may possibly be passed from the mouth along the duct and beyond the fistula, so as to act as a conductor for file saliva, and thus alloAV the abnormal aperture to close or be dealt Avith by the surgeon. Setons of Avire, silk, etc., have been used in the same Avay. A iieAV orifice Avithin the cheek has been secured in various Avays. A seton of Avire, catgut, cotton, lead, or other material; a trocar and canula (the latter being left in place); the bistoury, followed by a tent, ha\^e all been used for this purpose. Ifeguise’s ]flan has secured considerable favor. lie passed a small trocar from the fistulous orifice iiiAvai’ds and baclcAvards, and passed the end of a leaden Avire. The trocar Avas then passed a second time from the original point of introduction, but tliis time it Avas carried in the direc- tion of the duct, and the other end of the Avire Avas passed into the mouth. The two free ends of the leaden Avire, Avliich noAV projected into the mouth, Avere then tAvisted together Avifhin the cheek, thus constricting some of its substance. The external orifice Avas next closed by the ordinary tAA'isted suture, and its edges became adherent in a fcAV days as the saliva escaped into the mouth along the Avires, Avhich Avere finally removed as the ' Dupareque, Revue Mfidioale, 1842; aud Mem. de la Soc. de Cliir., tome ii. ; Jarjavay, Ibid., tome iii.