DISEASES OE THE JAWS. 533 contents of these cysts have suppurated before being opened, and in all cases care should be taken to use antiseptic lotions, and to insure cleanliness by syringing. Cysts in connection with fully developed teeth undoubtedly occur, although possibly some of the so-called cysts are nothing more than abscess-sacs, which follow the fangs to which they are attached when these are extracted. The only post-mortem examination of such a case is one recorded by Fischer, of Ulm, who, after removing the facial wall of the antrum, found a cyst connected with the apex of the last molar tooth, whicli filled the whole cavity. But cysts of the upper jaw are by no means uncommon in which no connection with the teetli can be made out, and winch certainly do not fill or in any way occupy the antrum. In fact, it may be doubted whether the old term hydrops antri is not altogether a misnomer, the cases which have hitherto been grouped togetlier under that name being either cj^sts of the wall of the antrum, or cysts altogether outside the antrum, which push in its wall as they develop. The history of these cases is one of gradual, painless dilatation of some part of the upper jaw, usually close above the alveolus, the bony Avail becoming so thin as to crackle like parchment, or eventually becoming simply membranous, in which case a characteristic, bluish appear- ance is seen on lifting the lip, and fiuctuation can be readily perceived. On incising such a cyst, a quantity of dark-colored fluid of varying consistency escapes, and the finger passes into a smooth cavity not perforated by the fangst of teeth, and quite outside the antrum. By cutting away a portion of the cyst-wall, so as to insure free drainage, the cure of the cyst is gradually brought about, but very slowly. The same form of cyst occurs, but less frequently, I think, in the lower jaiv. In the earlier stage of the complaint, when the jaw is distended, but when absorption is not so far advanced as to make the nature of the case clear, a puncture with a trocar Avill proliably evacuate cystic fluid, often containing cholesterine, and differing entirely from the mucous secretion of the lining membrane of the antrum. A remarkable specimen in the King’s College Museum, figured in Fergusson’s 1‘ractical Surgery, shows complete absorption of the front wall of the antrum, with great distension of the cavity, which does not communicate ivith the nose; but it is impossilfie to tell whether this was originally a case of empyema, or one of so-called hjulrops antri. Adams, Giialdes, and Luschka have shown that botli single and multiple cysts develop occasionally from the Avail of the antrum and'project into tlie cavity, and that polypoid groAvths form in the same situation. A recent case recorded by Sir James Paget,' supplies a symptom of such polypoid groAvths hitherto unnoticed, viz., the constant fioAV, from the nostril of the affected side, of clear Avatery fluid in considerable quantity. The patient, a lady, aged forty-nine, suffered for nearly tAvo years from this inconvenience, and Avas then relieved, and ultimately cured, by the use of sulphate of zinc, locally and internally, as recommended by Brodie in a similar case. The patient dying from causes unconnected Avith the antrum, its “floor Avas found to he covered Avith tAvo broad-based, convex, y)olypoid groAvths, deep, clear, yellow, Avith the fluid infiltrated in their tender tissue" They looked like very thin-walled cysts, but Avere formed of veiy fine membranous or filamentous tissue infiltrated Avith serum.” Cysts occur in the loAver as in the upy)er jaAV, and may be single or mul- tiple. These cysts yiroliably originate in the cancelli of the bone, and are in many cases due to the irritation caused liy neighboring teeth; a cancel- lus, being filled with fluid, exyiauds, and produces gradual absorption and ' Clinical Society’s Transactions. 1879.