INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 012 of the parietal peritoneum. If effusion of bile, urine, or fecal matter has taken place to any extent, the immediate symptoms ivill be distressing vom- iting and nausea, acute pain, and restlessness, and some or all of the other syni])toms cliaracteristic of traumatic peritonitis ; hut this is all that can be said to he the invariable result of these effusions. We know that many wounds which have positively involved the viscera are not followed by effu- sion, l)ut rapidly heal by adhesive inffammation; we know further that a small quantity of bile or feces, especially if very gradually effused, may he shut away from the general peritoneal cavity and become encysted, and that recovery after abscess ma}" follow. Such cases should make us cautious in our treatment, and forbid unnecessary surgical interference. Further, we know that even large cpiantities of healthy urine may be for a time in con- tact with the peritoneum without causing fatal peritonitis, or may be shut u}i in a circumscribed space formed bj^ adhesive inflammation and effusion of plastic lymph from the surrounding parts. But, lastly, we know that the common consefpience of visceral effusion is death; though from the post- mortem conditions of cases, we are encouraged to believe that in niany, had the diagnosis of extravasation been made and the abdomen explored, the effused matter might have been completely removed, the wound in the viscus closed by sntures, and thus a chance of recoveiy afforded. It is to be regretted^ therefore, that our means of diagnosis of fecal or other extravasation are not more perfect; and the attention of surgeons should be directed to every cir- cumstance which will tend to make them more so. l^roijnosis.-—There are two sources of apprehension special to these wounds, viz., lest extravasated blood should conduce to the effusion of the contents of the viscera into the abdominal cavity ; and lest the contents, when effused, should lead to fatal peritonitis. That effusion is a necessary, or even the ordinary, result of visceral wounds, both theory and experience disprove; and that reparation may be looked for in such wounds, the records of the ])rofession iudubitahly show. These records further show tliat, whereas some eases liave recovered so well and rapidly as to lead such men as Wiseman and others to believe that the viscera had altogether escaped injury; in others the inflammation has been so general and severe as to render the patients’ recovery a sur])rise to their attendants. If the contents of the Avonnded viscus escape through the external wound, the prognosis is less unfavorable than when they escape internally; recovery with a fecal fistula, or a false anus, may follow ; but the opening will, most probably, ultimately close. Treatment—If there be no evidence or suspicion of effusion from an}^ of the organs, the external wound should be closed and treated in the manner recom- mended for “ simple penetrating wounds.” If there is escape of some of the contents through the external wound, this should be cleaned and lightly dressed with some warm, iveak, carbolic-acid fomentation; bnt its edges should not be brought together, and the discharge should be permitted to flow freely into the dressings, or, through an opening in them, into some carded oakum, or a pad of peat-moss. If the case is seen within an hour or two, and through the external wound the stomach or intestine, or other hollow viscus, is seen to he wounded, the external opening should he enlarged sufficiently to allow of tlie visceral wound being closed by suture; and at the same time, if effu- sion into the abdominal cavity has taken place, scrupulous care should be given to the “ toilette” of the peritoneum before closing the external wound. Again, if severe hemorrhage into the peritoneum occurs from wounded mes- entery, omentum, or bowel, abdominal section for the purpose of removing the hlood-clot, ligaturing the bleeding vessel, and suturing the visceral wound, will in some eases be followed by a successful result; though, of course, if