RHINOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. 453 Undue shortness of the nose is sometimes the source of much annoyance, and may be remedied by the plan adopted by Prof. Weir, of blew York, which consists in cutting across the nose in a transverse direction, drawing down the tip to the desired position, and filling the wedge-shaped gap which results by transplanting flaps from the cheeks. Should the patient seek relief on account of the opposite condition—too great length of nose—it would prol>ably be suflicieut to remove a transverse wedge from the elongated tip of the organ, and close the wound with sutures. Operation for Depressed Yose.—Disease of the nasal hones and cartilages may cause the organ to have a flat and sunken appearance, Avithout there being any external ulceration. The late Sir William Fergusson, in a case of this kiiul, succeeded in remedying the deformity by a modification of the procedure originally suggested by Diefl’enbacli. Introducing a narrow knife within the nostrils, he separated tlie soft tissues from the underlying bones, anil then brought the Avhole nose fonvard by passing long, steel-pointed, silver needles through its liase from cheek to cheek, and then tAvistiiig them over strijis of perforated leather. A neAV columna Avas aftenvards formed in the ordinary manner. Fistulous openinus through the bones of the nose are occasionally met Avith, as the result of necrosis folloAving scarlet fever, etc. The treatment consists in freshening tlie edges of the orifice, and adapting a flap taken from either cheek or forehead as may be found most convenient. II. Operations for Restoration of the Whole Xose. Several metliods are emidoyed for restoring the entire nose, Avhen this is necessary, those Avhich are best knoAvn being respectively called the Talia- cotian and tlie Indian operation. The Taliacotian method has receiv^ed its name from Tagliacozzi, or Talia- eotius, an eminent Italian surgeon of the sixteenth century, avIio published an account of his operation, Avith numerous illustrations, in 1597.^ It is perhaps hardly necessary to say that the popular notion that Taliacotius fashioned noses for his ])atients from the nates of jiersons hired for the purpose, is unfounded, and appears to have originated in the fertile imagi- nation of the Author of Iludiln-as. The part from Avhich the Taliacotian nose Avas really derived, Avas the upper, and usually the left, arm of the jiatient himself. A flap of skin and connective tissue of sufficient size is, in this o[ieration, first marked out on the up^ier arm and partially de- tached, and is left in tliis condition for about tAvo Aveeks, in order that it may become Avascular and thickened liy the process of granulation. At the end of this time the stuni[> of the original nose is pared, and the flap then reduced to proper shape, and attached by numerous stitches in its intended liosition, the arm being brought up to the head and fixed by a complicated arrangement of slings and bandages. After about ten days more, Avhen the new nose is supposed to be firmly adherent, its connections Avith tlie arm are severed, and any needful trimming of the new organ is effected. Finally a columna is made from the up}ier li]). This operation has been varied by Warren and others, by taking the flap ' De Curtoram Chirurgia per Ivisitioiiem Libri Duo. Veuetiis, 1597.