735 MORBID GROWTHS OF THE LARYNX. few days in advance. It can often be undertaken with perfect safety, how- ever, without such precaution. Section of tlie trachea, tracheotomi/, is sometimes practised for the purpose of 0})eratiug upon subglottic growths, directly through the tracheal wound. In a few tracheotomies by myself, preliminary to intradaryngeal operations, I have failed to make immediate use of the incisions in removing the growths, because the entrance of blood into the trachea, and the cough excited, have so obscured the field and disturbed the illumination that the practice has not appeared safe ; but I have made successful use of the wound a few days after the tracheotomy. Lateral Lar^ngotomi/.—Luschka has described^ a lateral thyroidal laryn- gotomy suitable for gaining access to morbid growths in the ventricle without doing injury to the vocal bands. A longitudinal incision is made down to the thyroid cartilage, starting at the junction between the first and second fourths of the horizontal interval between the superior incisure of the thyroid carti- lage and its posterior border. The thyroid cartilage is then split from top to bottom, and its edges lield asunder with blunt books, when the upper end of the laryngeal sac comes in view, so that no difficulty is presented in dividing its lateral wall as tar as the level of the upper surface of the vocal band. I am unaware that this operation has ever been performed on the living subject. Section of the tliju’o-hyoid memljrane, svh-hijoid pharynyotomy^ sometimes called supra-thyroid laryngofomy^ rarel}^ affords sufficient access for the efficient use of instruments, even in the adult, and its usefulness is therefore restricted. The operation is comparatively easy, and does not subject any important struc- ture to injury, either at the time or sulisequently. It is sometimes practised to excise the epiglottis, or to remove a growth from the upper portion of the larynx, or to extract impacted foreign bodies, otherwise inaccessible. It is an operation imitating the wound sometimes made by the suicide. First practised by Bicliat in physiological investigations u}ion animals,^ its per- formance on the human sulject for surgical purposes was suggested by Mal- gaigne^ and by Vidal (de Cassis), and it was first executed by Dr. FraC for removal of a tumor of the epiglottis. Of six cases of this operation for removal of tumors, collated by me in 1878,® three terminated fatally within a few days after the operation. The operation itself, however, is not a serious one under ordinary circumstances, as no important structures, vessels, or nerves, are subjected to injury; but its limited availability rarely justifies its employment for the removal of morbid growths, especially because, as inti- mated by ^Mackenzie, cases favorable for its performance are just those most easily treated through the mouth. To perform this operation, a transverse incision is made parallel Avith the loAver border of the hyoid bone, dividing skin, fascia, sterno-hyoid muscles, hyo-thyroid membrane, and pbarynx—button-holeing the tissues lietween the tongue and the epiglottis. The epiglottis is then ilrawn out through the Avoimd, and the pharyngeal outlet of the larynx is exposed. The advantage over splitting the larynx is the avoidance of injuiy to the cartilage and to the vocal bands. The removal of tumors exposed by direct access is effected liy holding the etlges of the severed tissues a[>art, illuminating the interior by direct or reflex light, as may be most effective, and then removing the growth with knife, scissors, wire or chain loop, or electric cautery, as may seem most feasible and ’ I)er Kehlkopf rtes MenscRen, S. 18. Tubingen, 1871. 2 Traite cl’Anatoniie l>escrij)tif, t. ii. p. 4(l2. I’aT’is, 1819. ^ Manuel de Medecine Operatoire. Paris, 1835. (4ai!. des Hup., No. 103, j). 849. 1859. * Op. cit., p. 575.