594 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. consideration of them need not detain us, but others are common enough, and demand detailed description. The various glandular structures here present are frequent starting points of tumors, and especially of the more formidable sorts which in this position occasionally attain a veiy great size. Pneumatocele arid emq)hysema of the cellular tissue may be passed lightly by. A pneumatocele is capable of being emptied by pressure, but reappears on forced expiration. It forms a circumscribed tumor, increasing and diminish- ing with the respiration. It is resonant on percussion, and soft on palpa- tion. The lung may also be projected into the lower part of the neck so as to form a hernia. This is a very rai’e condition, and is irremediable. In examining a growth of the neck, it is most desirable to determine its relationship to the deep fascia. The information thus secured will help mate- rially to distinguish the nature of the tumor, its future effects, and the hope of removing it When placed below that strong and fii’mly bound down mem- brane, it will as it grows induce symptoms which are very manifest and import- ant. The consistence of such deeply placed tumors is augmented, their outline is less clear, the lingers cannot be passed under them, nor can they be raised up and isolated. The pressure which they occasion will early begin to tell, and the pressure-effects will be out of proportion to their apparent size. The in- fluence too of the fascia will be observed in the fixed character of the growths. Any or all tlie organs in the neck may suffer from the pressure of a deep growth. The air-passages, the pharynx and oesophagus, the great bloodvessels, and the nerves—including the sympathetic, the recurrent, and the pneumo- gastric—may be thus affected. The well-known effects on the temperature and cutaneous sensibility of the face and ear, and the changes in the conjunc- tiva and pupil, which indicate compression of the sympathetic,^ may be ob- served. The circulation through the brain too may suffer, and, in short, most serious and wide-spread effects may folloAV from the pressure exercised on important organs. The observation of Vidal, that the violence of the pressure in deep tumors may subside as the growth progresses, has not been verified in my own experience, though the fact that it is only in the later stages of superficial tumors—that is, when they have reached considerable dimen- sions—that the evidence of pressure may appear, is in keeping Avith Avhat Avould naturally be expected. Aneurism, spina bifida, and ranula do not lie Avithin the range of this article, but adenitis, lymphoma, cystoma, lipoma, fibroma, enchondroma, and carcinoma Avill be considered, Avhile A^arious groAvths of less frequency or importance Avill be very shortly alluded to. Adenitis and Adenoma.—Acute inflammation of the glands has been already described. The chronic form is both common and difficult to deal Avith, and that chiefly from the circumstance that it may be dependent on either a local or a constitutional cause, or on both, acting in varying degrees. The subacute form of the affection is also frequently met Avith after depress- ing ailments. Irritation in some part of that enormous surface Avhose h’m- phatic vessels end in the cervical glands, is the usual, if not (as some believe) the sole cause of that enlargement Avhich characterizes chronic adenitis. Upon the violence or acuteness of that irritation Avill of course greatly depend Avhat the effect on the gland Avill be, Avbether it shall be excited to acute action, or shall sloAvly and painlessly increase bj^ hjqiertrophy. The surfaces of the head, outside and Avithin its A'arious cavities, are frequently the scat of such lesions as Avould create the irritation required, but behind this, and giving it emphasis and force, Ave too often liaA’e a constitutional or general ' Porteau, Des l§sions de la portion cervicale du grand sympathetique. Paris, 1869.