INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR, 328 has been referred. The value of the previous history of the case will be appreciated when we come to weigh the sigiiiticauce of certain lesions that may be discovered in the course of an actual inspection of the parts. We must also not forget to test the hearing of the affected ear. Then, if the case under consideration be one of a somewhat acute nature, our next step should be to ascertain the body tem[)erature. Otlierwise, we may proceed at once to an examination of the ear and neighboring parts. Pressure should be made with the finger upon the soft parts immediately surrounding the ear, and particularly upon those covering the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. An unnatural redness of the skin in this region is a valuable indica- tion, and its presence should be noted. With all these facts in our possession —the previous history, the degree of diminution in the hearing, the body- temperature, and the condition of the skin in the immediate neighborhood of the ear—we shall lie able to interpret correctly the iiathological changes which we may see in the deeper parts of the organ. If the meatus is filled with pus, we must take steps to remove it, not simply in a general way, but in the most thorough manner, so as to expose to view every nook and cranny. The question of syringing presents itself at this point. Is it best to remove the pus and other debris by syringing, or not ? The answer to this question may be either yes or no, I never use the syringe under these circumstances: I much prefer to soak up the pus little by little, with a mop of absorbent cotton ivound around the end of a slender, malleable, steel cotton- holder, and, in performing this operation, I keep the canal well illuminated and watch each step as I carry my mop deeper and deeper into the canal. If I wei’e to syringe the meatus, I should still be obliged, afterward, to resort to the use of the mop ; for the water that clings to the deeper parts of the ear and to all the irregular places, will be found to mask the true condi- tion of the parts almost as effectively as if pus and not water covered them. It is therefore easier and better to omit the syringing, and to trust entirely to the mop. On the other hand, an unskilled person will liave to employ the syringe, and he will have to interpret, as best he may, the ill-defined picture which he finds spread out before him. As an imperfect or an erroneous diagnosis leads, in very many of these cases, to equally imperfect treatment, it will be seen that I have a right to warn the reader against trusting to such an imperfect procedure as that of cleansing the car by means of a syringe. Oftentimes we shall find it also necessary to use the slender middle-ear probe, the curette, and the angular forceps, in our efforts to clear away the obstacles that obstruct the view. These usually consist of scab-like foi’mations, conglomerations of cheesy pus, and masses of epithelium. The latter often cling quite firmly to the underlying inflamed tissues, and require to be dis- sected off by means of the curette. When the mass has been detached, we can readily extract it by means of the slender, angular forceps. Irregularities of the surface must be touched and handled, if I may use the expression, with the probe or curette. In this way ive often discover ulcerated areas or spots of granulation-tissue, which, under simple inspection, had seemed to be simple unevennesses of the surface. Sometimes the orifice of a sinus gefs filled with cheesy pus or epithelial deb?'is, and then presents the appearance of a mere white spot. Careful pressure with the end of the probe will at once reveal to us the existence of such a sinus, and by further manipulations with the same instrument we may ascertain its depth, the direction which it takes, and the pi'esence, at some point in its course, of an exposed, bony sur- face, or of a loose fragment of bone. If the sinus is of suflicient size, we may gain a more accurate knowledge of its relations to neighboring cavities by the emplo}unent of a slender caiiula, of either metal or glass, through which, by the aid of an attached soft-rubber bulb-syringe, we may inject a