INJURIES OF THE HEAD. so the thicker, the latter, besides being better conductors of vibration, are actually umplifiers of the same. The base must be massive, at least in parts, in order to support the super- incumbent weight of the skull and brain, and to afford a firm basis for tbe movements of tiie lower jaw, and of the head on the spine, as well as to protect the important nervous structures in relation with it. While this arrangement is advantageous in health, there are compensating disadvantages when man is subjected to violence; indeed, in his ordinary movements this massiveness of portions of his cranial base would be disadvantageous, were it not for certain wise provisions to be presently mentioned. The pericranium ■\tithout, and tlie dura mater Avithin, act precisely as a Avet Avash-leather covering and lining u onld to a bell, damping Aubrations. To the OAmid form of the skull, a large part of the security of the brain is attributed, and to a considerable extent this is true; but one important point is almost universally ignored by Avriters upon this subject. Endless demonstrations exist, going to proA’e that any segment of the brain-case is a section of a spheroid, and to this fact the immunity from fracture enjo^^ed by the skull is attributed. If fractures Avei’e produced only by crushing forces, tlie proposition Avonld be incontrovertible. If hoAvever a large i>art of the damage is done by setting up Aubrations in tbe bones themselves, then the form of the skull only conduces in a slight degree to its immunity from fracture. An arch that Avill sustain hundreds of tons of ^iressure, if vibra- tions are set up in it may readily be fissured, althougb its form may remain unchanged.' The arched form of tlie skull then merely resists the tendency of the bones to be pressed iinvard Avhen a blow is struck, and, the A^ault not breaking, the force expends itself in producing A’ibrations Avhich cause a basal fracture. Any lirittle body Avill thus be injured Avhenever the vibrations becomb violent enough to OA^ercome the cohesion between the particles com- posing that body. Examining the anatomy of a child’s skull Avill give some useful hints. Probably no young child’s skull has ever been'fractured by a diffused bloAv ipion tlie A-ertex, nor lias more than one bone of the A^ault been broken, unless the force has been actually applied to it. Why is this? In an infant’s skull eA^ery bone is isolated from every other by membrane, than Avhicli there is no better arrester of vibrations. An attentive examination of a parietal or frontal bone,^ Avill shoAV that the most projecting portions (those most liable to first strike the ground in falling) are the thickest, Avhile extend- ing from these centres are radii of bone becoming more and more delicate. Each of the fine terminal points of these radii is enveloped by membrane. The vibrations initiated by a IiIoav ujion the thicker, central part of the bone are conducted on, or rather have to be propagated, by a gradually thinning structure, that is, one less and less capable of Aubrating strongly, until tliey finally reach the terminal radii of bone Avhich are completely enveloped in rnembi’ane, Avhen they are totally arrested. Hence it is that the lines of fracture of an infant’s skull never pass beyond the one bone struck. Certain Avell-knoAvn clinical facts are thus explained bj^ the anatomy of the child’s skull. As the bones come to be more and more in bony contact, Avith ad- vancing years, this immunity from radiation of lines of fracture from the point struck is gradually lost. In the adult skull, the parietal bones and the frontal eminences, instead of being the thickest, are often the thinnest portions of the vault, and the eight component bones of the brain-case are more or less co-ossified, or at • Basal fractures are practically always fissured, the form of the base remaining unaltered. 2 The arrangement mentioned can best be seen in a foetal bone, but exists, although not .so easily detected, long after birth.