382 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF TUE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. seriously encroaches uiion the nasal cavities, associated with a chronic inflam- mation involving the greater part of the naso-pharyngeal mucous membrane, the best that can be gained by the above plan of treatment will be the alleviation of some only of the more prominent symptoms, and more heroic measures will be required, chiefly the use of some means by which the hyper- trophied membrane can be destroyed. Attempts to effect absorption of the neoplastic tissue, through the introduction of hollow bougies into the nasal passages, where they are left for a time in situ (Hoppe), or the use of sponge tents, metallic bougies CWagner), and the like, fail to give more than tempo- rary relief, and the surgeon is obliged to turn to one of the following de- structive agents, viz., the forceps, nitric acid, chromic acid, glacial acetic acid, nitrate of silver, the actual or galvano-cautery, or the ecraseur} Forceps^ formerly commonly used in the nares for this purpose, have been justly supplanted by some one of the other means. The operation of tearing away portions of the hypertrophied tissue, over the turbinated bones, is harsh and attended by profuse hemorrhage. Nitric acid has often served a good purpose in my hands. It is a powerful destructive agent, and with some care its action can be limited directly to the part to be treated. The guarded canula of Smith will perhaps here be of Fig. 930, - '1— Smith’s guarded canula for applying nitric acid to the nasal passages. service. A small probe, its end wrapped in absorbent cotton and saturated with the acid, is passed through a suitable nasal speculum into the naris to be operated upon, and drawn along, or firmly pressed upon, the turbinated bone at the point of its greatest convexity, contact being kept up for a few seconds; the pain quickly passes away, and on withdrawing the probe the parts are seen to have become well whitened or blanched ; moderate inflam- matory reaction, with a slough of varying depth, follows, while the consolidation of the submucous structures by the hyperplastic results of the inflammatory process and the contraction of the cicatricial tissue, occupying the site of the destroyed parts, serves to reduce the hypertrojihy and its resultant nasal ob- struction in a most satisfactory manner. Frequently, one application answers all purposes in freeing the nasal passage to the extent of allowing of uninter- rupted respiration. The process, however, may require repetition. This little operation is one that I very frequently employ, and one in which I have much confidence. Owing to the danger of an excess of acid flowing over the healthy parts, and the difficulty of controlling this in a locality hard of access, this caustic is not adapted for use in the destruction of the ' adenoid hypertrophies met with at the vault of the pharynx. Its use should be limited to the parts reached through the anterior nares. Chromic acid is less painful in its use than nitric acid, hut possesses no other special advantage over it. It is well adapted for treating the glandular * Gelatine bougies, moulded to a suitable form and medicated with various astringents, are advised by Guttman.