MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OP THE HEAD. 124 to occur in the scalp of women and young girls, and to be associated with retarded menstruation. Blood-Tumors op the Scalp in Communication with the Intracranial Venous Pirculation.^—These tumors are very rare, and consist essentially of a collection of venous blood beneath the pericranium, communicating by an aperture in the bone with the superior longitudinal sinus. Communications with no other intracranial veins have been actually made out, although Du- pont has endeavored to prove that in some cases the commnnication is with the diploic veins. The communication 'with the sinus may be either effected by an injury or spontaneous. Pott^ gives an excellent example of the former mode ot causation. A splinter of bone having been driven into the superior longitudinal sinus without laceration of the skin, a typical blood-tumor \vas the result. As to how the spontaneous perforation of the hone is effected, nothing certain is known. Many theories have been advanced, some urging that the perforation is the result of atrophy in a Pacchionian depression, others that it is due to hone-disease, and others that it is brought about by means of a varicose emissary vein. The blood is, in the first instance at least, beneath the pericranium ; but in some cases it may come through that membrane and appear lieneath the skin. If the case be due to injury, one crack or fissure in the bone will be found to maintain the abnormal com- mnnication ; bnt in cases of spontaneous perforation many holes are gen- erally found, some of them very minute. Apart from these apertures the bone as a rule presents a normal aspect. In some cases a slight peripheral ring of bone exists like that found in cephallHematoma. Symptoms.—Most of the cases are met with in the frontal region, a few in the parietal, and very few, indeed, in the occipital region.^ In all instances they are about the line of the sinus. So little trouble do these tumors occa- sion, that they are generally discovered by accident. They are never large, being, as a rule, about the size of a chestnut; are round and soft; possess dis- tinctly ffuid contents; and are covered either by normal skin or by a thinned and purple integument. They are reducible by pressure, either wholly or in part, and, when reduced, the perforation in the skull may sometimes be detected, and a return of the mass prevented for a time by applying the finger to the bone. They can be increased in size by coughing, by stooping the head, and by compressing the internal jugular veins in the neck. In certain rare cases “ a dull kind of pulsation” (as Pott expresses it) can be felt. A bruit is never present. These blood tumors show little tendency to in- crease, and less to undergo spontaneous cure. In a few instances they cause some pain and vertigo (increased by pressure), but as a rule they give no trouble. The prognosis., therefore, is perfectly favorable as long as these tumors escape injury. Diagnosis.—To diagnose these tumors from varices of the superficial veins, a ring of ivory or lead is made use of. This is placed on the head so as to encircle the tumor, and is pressed firndy down against the scalp. A simple varicose vein cannot he reduced in size while the ring is on, wdiereas its J An excellent account is given of these tumoi-s by Dupont (These de Paris, 1858, No. 78), and also by Hermann Demme (Virchow’s Archiv, Band xxii. H. 1, 2. 1861.) ; the latter author at- tempts to divide these tumors into tluee distinct categories. See also article “Crane” by Dr. Gayraud, in the Diet. Encyclop. des Sc. Med., p. 544. 1879. Dnfour (Comptes Rend, de la Soc. de Biologie, le serie, tome iii. p. 155. Paris, 1851), and Hutin (Memoires de M<id. de Chir. et de Phar. Militaires, 2e serie, tome xiv. Paris, 1854), record post-mortem examinations. 2 The Chirurgical Works of Percival Pott, vol. i. p. 156. London, 1808. ® See, however, cases by Flint (New England Journ. of Med., vol. ix. p. 112), and by J. W. Ogle (British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Review, vol. xxxvi. p. 212. 1865).