ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. lUOl Illation of the bowels.” She was sent into liospital for supposed retention of urine; the abdomen was bulged “ like the abdomen of pregnancy in minia- ture.” An exploratory syringe, introduced two inches below the umbilicus, withdrew some thick, dirty-looking and fetid pus ; two days afterwards a free incision was made antiseptically in the median line, and ten ounces of pus and very fetid gas were let out. A drainagc-tulie was retained for a few days ; in a short time the discharge ceased ; and l>y the end of six weeks the wound had cpiite healed. The third and only fatal case occurred in a boy, aged eleven; the pus was evacuated at the end of a month through a very small incision, which was afterwards enlarged, but death from double em- pyema and cheesy pneumonia followed three and a half months from the onset of his illness. At the post-mortem examination there was found general suppurative peritonitis ; the coils of intestine Avere matted together, and there were three localized abscesses in the peritoneum: one led from the brim of the pelvis downwards between the rectum and bladder, into the ischio-rcctal fossa; another lay between the liver and diaphragm, and had duVing life been opened through the latter by an incision in the eighth right costal inter- space ; and the third Avas betAveeu the spleen and diaphragm, and opened into the left pleura and lung. Such cases as the aboA'c ai’e liy no means pecu- liar to children, but occur in adults Avith perhaps equal frequency. The treatment consists, in the earl}^ stage, in allaying abdominal pain and tenderness by opium and hot fomentations, and in keeping up the strength of the patient by mild nutritive food, such as milk, light puddings, beef- tea, etc. As soon as the presence of pus is ascertained, a free incision should lie cautiously made into the abdomen along the median line, unless there is any indication for selecting some other part, such as marked tluctuation oi' promi- nence. A drainage-tube should be left in the Avound, and if })us is found to bag in places, it should be removed at the time of operation by means of well- prepared carbolized sponges. Indeed the “ toilette” of the peritoneum should be carefully attended to in these as in all other cases, but officious inter- ference Avitli adherent purulent lymph must be avoided, as likely to lead to troublesome capillary bleeding. Schmidt performed laparotomy for puru- lent peritonitis, on a patient aged tAventy-one, in the Moscoav Militar}- Hospital, and Avith a good result. The abdomen Avas opened by an incision from the umbilicus to the symphysis, and on division of the tbickened peiu- toneum a large quantity of healthy pus gushed out. Drainage-tubes Avere inserted, and the Avound healed, recovery being complete in two months.^ Visceral Abscesses.—I. Hepatic Abscess.—Caitscs ami 3Iode of Orujin.— Amongst the most important causes of liver-abscess, as far as the surgeon is concerned, are surgical operations and other injuries. A contusion of the substance, unattended by laceration of the capsule of the gland, is a recovei'able injury, but one prone to be folloAved by abscess.^ Kuptures and penetrating AAmunds of the liver, if not fatal from hemorrhage, may excite abscess. A case in Avhich a sabre-Avound of the liver Avas followed l)y an abscess of that organ, Avith ultimate recovery, is recorded by Dr. Otis and Dr. Harley has published a case of recovery from hepatic abscess caused by a fall from a horse.'* Dr. Maclean mentions a fatal case of hepatic abscess ' Lond. Med. Record, .Tune, 1882. ® Dapuytren, Le?ons Orales de CTiniciue Cliirurgicale, t. vi. p. 443; Lidcll, Am. Jonni. Med. Sciences, Ji. s. vol. liii. p. 340 , Pollock, Article on Injuries of tlie Abdomen in Holmes’s Sy.stem of Surgery. * Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Part 11., Snrg. Vol_, p. 129. ‘ Trans. Clin. Society, vol. iv. p. 13. 1871.