LARYNGECTOMY. 775 ' Berliner klin. Wocli., IG .Tuni, 1884, S. 383. * Haliii, loc. cit. to accoraplisli this result, Gussenbauer deems it desiralile to remove, in part or in whole, any projecting anterior portion of a tracheal cartilage in the domain of the line of union. Exact approximation, he contends, insures union by first intention; while secure union of the trachea to the lower corner of the wound in the neck is of considerable importance in the subse- quent course of the case. Should it be deemed preferable, after separating the soft parts from their connection with the larynx, to remove the latter from below upward, the trachea, if not adherent to the integument, is secured by two ligatures, and is then sevei’ed from the larynx above the first ring, after which it is stitched to the integument, and securely tamponned. Care must be taken not to “buttonhole the oesophagus.” Gussenbauer recommends severance of the trachea with the thei’ino-cautery. The trachea having been rendered secure, the larynx is to be pulled forward and upward with a sharp double hook inserteol into the cricoid cartilage, and the organ is then to he loosened from its connections from below upwards, the final step of the procedure being its separation from the hyoid bone. In several instances in which this method of excision has been employed, its steps have been disturbed by failure in tlie air-tight occlusion of the trachea. In the more extensive operations necessary for the removal of other struc- tures in addition to the larynx, the details of the operation will vary with the conditions of the integument and of the soft parts, the relations of which will have undergone some change. In operating upon these complicated cases, care to cut no vessel before it has been secured between double liga- tures will reduce hemorrhage to a minimum, and care to retain as much healthy tissue as practicable will favor the after-treatment. Every source of visible hemorrhage should be controlled by temporary compression, and by subsequent torsion or ligature if necessary. Unilateral Tjar]riigectoimj.~-l\\ performing this operation, as <lescribed by Hahn,' the operator carries an incision towards the diseased side at about the level of the hyoid bone, and makes a second incision in the median line down to the cricoid cartilage. The soft parts are next separated from the thyroid cartilage, which is then split, after which the laiynx is earefull)' inspected. If one half 'only is diseased, every affected portion is removed— thyroid cartilage, soft parts, arytenoid cartilage, and a portion of the cricoid cartilage. If unilateral exsection is impossible, the cricoid cartilage is not split. The cricoid cartilage is severed from the trachea and the se[)aration effected from below upwards. The (jesophagus and the thyro-hyoid mem- brane are united by sutures. A long canula is introduced, surrounded with Michael’s tampon, and is retained in jwsition for some twelve hours. At each dressing the trachea is tamj)onned from above with iodoformed sponge.^ After-treatment of Laryngectomy.—The operation being practically over, both larynx and wound should be rigidly scrutinized as to the thoroughness of the removal of diseased tissue. Any suspected remnants should be imme- diately excised. Whetlier the edges of the wound or gap in the anterior pharyngo-oesophageal wall should be united by suture, is a question to be answered, as a rule, in the negative. There is considerable diversity of opinion as to tlie utility of sutures here. They arc often in the way of after-treatment, and they often tear out. Hence they seem advisable only as temporary sup-