83 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. Finally, let me illustrate by my own practice and that of others, what I believe to be the proper treatment in cerebral abscess:— On the morning of March 6, 1884, J. Y., aged nineteen years, walked into the Epis- copal Hospital, complaining of a sore on the top of his head. He said that it was the result of a blow which he had received two months previously at Chicago. On ex- amining the wound, an ulcer was found located about the position of the left middle parietal lobe. In the centre of this ulcer was the broken edge of a knife-blade. Upon being told of this, he seemed thoroughly surprised that such was the case. But little could be made out by closely questioning him as regarded the incidents of the attack, except that a man had struck him on the top of the head so forcibly that he had fallen on his hands and knees, but had recovered himself almost immediately. He said that he did not at that time, nor afterwards, lose consciousness, nor had he had even a headache. All symptoms of brain-injury were absent. He did not complain of any pain or uncomfortable sensation when the knife-blade was removed by the gentleman who first saw him; but in the afternoon of the same day he had slight pain in the head. His appetite was good, and his bowels constipated. March 7, patient had rested well through the night; did not complain of headaclie. Temp. 100° F.; pulse 80. An examination of the eyes was made by Dr. Ileyl, five hours after the withdrawal of the knife-blade, with the following result:— Pupils reacted normally to incident light. Media and optic papilla normal. Re- tinal arteries of full size in the left eye, probably also in tlie right eye. It was difficult to pronounce positively on this point, owing to the peculiar distribution of the vessels. Veins in both retinae enlarged and of a black color. Arteries and veins in each eye tortuous. Vei’y many fine, thread-like reflections of light, doubtless from very fine vessels. Diagnosis was retinal hyperajmia, arising from intracranial circulatory disturbance. March 8, temp. 100° F.; pulse 80. This afternoon, at one P. M., after the wound had been examined, he was seized with an epileptiform convulsion which lasted about two minutes; no particular movements were made whicli could lead to the localization of the source of irritation. At four P. M. he had another attack, but not as severe as the first, being conscious during the paroxysm. At ten P. M. a very violent convulsion occnn-ed, the patient remaining unconscious five minutes. The attack began with a twitching of the right arm, but soon became general. Having been sent for, I tre- phined the skull over the seat of injury, removing a button of bone which showed a slight de[)ression of the inner table. The position which the blade had occupied could be seen in the dura mater, there being an opening surrounded with dense cicatricial tissue. The dura mater did not seem to be congested, and tliere was evidently no [uis or fluid beneatli it. 'I'lie wound was washed out with a solution of corrosive subli- mate, one part to two thousand, and then dressed with sublimateil gauze. March 9, temp. 100° F. ; pulse 8.3. The patient seemed easy this morning, except for sliglit pain about the wound. At 11 A. M. he was seized with a muscidar tremor of the lower extremities. He was conscious during tlie attack, but could not control the movements, which lasted about tliree minutes. March 10, temp. 100° F. ; pulse 80. Doing well this morning, no headache. March 14, tem[>. 98° F.; [julse 62. The wound is looking well ; modei’ate, healthy suppuration. Patient’s general condition is worse. Marked liebetude and slow pulse. * He sleeps the greater part of the time. Brain-abscess suspected. March 17, temp. 102° F.; pulse 67. This morning an erysipelatous blush is noticed over the forehead, but not about tlie wound. The attack lasted until the 21st, being limited to the face and yielding easily to treatment. March 22, temp. 98^° F.; pulse 76. Patient’s condition is still worse. The tongue is coated, dry, and fissured. Pulse slower, and memory failing. March 2.5, morning and evening temp. 98° F. ; pulse 60. March 26, temp. 97|° F.; pulse 53. March 27, morning temp. 97-y° F.; evening temp. 98-^° F. ; pulse 70. M.ai’ch 29, the [latient’s condition is about the same ; incontinence of urine ; hebetude more marked. Pulse 52 ; morning temperature 99° F. March 30, temperature 99° F.; pulse. 70. This morning I found the patient uiicon- ecious, and with right-sided hemi[)legia; he was rapidly sinking.