INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1004 cliarge of between 80 and 90 ounces of thick, dirty, brownish-green, but not offensive pus. On post-mortem examination, the lower lobe of the right lung was found adherent by recent lymph to the upper surface of the diaphragm. Fully three-quarters of the liver- substance was replaced by the abscess sac, which was bounded by liver-substance below and posteriorly, but above and in front, and also at the sides, by little else than the diaphragm and thickened liver-capsule. In front, the sac wall was particularly thin. After the evacuation of its fluid contents, the abscess-cavity still held some tenacious, solid masses, which adhered to the lining membrane, were greenish in color, and tloated out in long slireds, like muco-pus, but were not of the nature of sloughs. There was great compensating enlargement of the left lobe of the liver ; the spleen was enlarged and indurated, the kidneys were granular, and a quantity of ascitic fluid occupied the abdominal cavity. Si/m'ptoms.—Liver-abscess is a disease of adult life, and is more especially common in tropical and malarial districts. Very extensive suppuration may be going on in the liver witbout giving any sign of its existence, either to the patient or to his medical attendant. The reason of this is, that the liver is not a sensitive organ, and that if the abscess is deep seated it ma}" attain to seiuous dimensions before exciting peritoneal inhainination and pain. If the abscess is stoutly encysted, it may remain, perhaps, for years, and produce little or no constitutional disturbance. All writers with experience in tropical dis- eases, record cases in which persons, apparently in average health, have died suddenly from the bursting of an old and “ silent” abscess. In malarial dis- tricts, and in Europeans debilitated from long residence in a tropical climate, the symptoms are obscure and insidious. On the other hand, a small abscess near the surfiice will cause severe pain in the region of the liver, immediate elevation of temperature by two or three degrees, and a rise in frequenc}’' with increased sharpness of the pulse. If the abscess is situated near the upper surface, there will be a short, dry cough, often preceded, and for a while attended, bj^ a friction-murmur at the base of the lung; whereas, if it be on the under surface, there will frequently be vomiting and other evidence of gastric or duodenal disturbance, or irritating diarrbcea, if the abscess is tending towards the colon, whilst if towards the outer aspect of the liver, there will be fulness, and perliaps fluctuation detected on careful manipulation. Aon-encysted abscesses, even when deep-seated and of small size, are apt to excite fatal constitutional symptoms. In young persons not long resident in a liot climate, and especially if they have been living freely or intemperately, the constitutional sjunptoms are likely to be very severe. The local symptoms are a sense of weight and fulness in the right hypo- chondrinm, wdth inability to lie upon the right side; frequent spasmodic contraction of the rectus abdominis; and tenderness on pressure over the upper and right parts of the belly ; occasionalh" fluctuation can be detected. The complexion is muddy and the countenance anxious; the tongue is thickly coated with a gray or yellow fur; and when suppuration commences, Avbich in acute cases it does in from seven to twelve days, the patient emaciates, grows hectic, and has night-sweats. Rigors are of great significance when they occur, but are by no means constant; and both rigors and night-sweats are less marked in tropical than in infective abscesses. Slight jaundice often exists in the infective or pyremic cases, and is due to the morbid condition of the blood from septic infection; but marked jaundice, excepting when the abscess arises from obstruction and ulceration of the bile-ducts, is very rare indeed. It seems to be an accepted dogma that when dysentery is compli- cated with hepatic abscess, ipecacuanha, so frequently prescribed for the dysentery, cannot be tolerated by the system.