AFFECTIONS OF THE SEPTUM. 405 and attached to the upper lip; a continuation of the normal integument has covered in the nostril or nostrils, or the latter have been blocked up by a firm membrane. The etfects of such occlusion are apparent. Fortunately, treat- ment is usually a simple matter, and the earlier it is undertaken the better. A simple, direct incision is often all that is needed, the 0}>ening thus made into the nasal passage lieing kept open and dilated by means of a strip of lint, until the healing process is completed. Where some deformity of the parts coexists with the occlusion, a more extensive dissection of tissue may be necessary. A like condition, the result of accident or disease, is more fre- quent ; a common cause, of which I have seen and successfully treated two instances, is the loss of tissue and sulisequent cicatricial contraction about the nasal openings following smallpox. Deep burns of the face produce the same result, zaul fractures of the nose, with laceration of tlie soft parts, and subsequent contraction during the healing process, are a like efiicfient cause. As a rule, in such instances, a small opening througli the adventitious tissue will be found to exist, and may be simply dilated by means of compressed sponge, laminaria, or metallic bougies. In certain cases this treatment must be supplemented by incisions, the nature and direction of which depend upon the deformity in the particular instance in which they are undertaken. Constant repetition of the dilating process will always be found necessary to prevent recontraction. Affections of the Septum. The septum itself is liable to various affections, which play an important part in producing either temporary or permanent stenosis. Extravasations of blood* occur, as the direct result of injury, lieneath the mucous membrane on one or both sides of the cartilaginous portion of the septum. The resulting tumor is frequently lai’gc, with a liroad base, and of a dark, congested color ; the surrounding induration and the tension are marked, and often mask any sense of fiuctuation. The rapidity with which the tumor forms after the accident, and the history of the case, with direct inspection of the parts, render the diagnosis easy. Inllammation and suppuration may generally be prevented, and resorption facilitated, by the adoption of strict antiphlogistic measures. Incisions are not often required—never unless the amount of extravasated blood be large and the obstruction to nasal respiration great. Abscess of Septum.—Should these measures fail, acute abscess of the septum may result. Although this condition is usually the direct result of injury, and is not preceded by any marked extravasation of blood—I have never seen it arise spontaneously, in connection, for instance, with scrofula, or sub- sequently to the exanthemata, smallpox, measles, or scarlatina—the atten- dant tumefaction and inllammation ai’c not always confined to the nasal cav- ities, the whole nose, cheeks and neighboilng jiarts being not infrequently involved, especially at an early stage of the i)rocess. Tlie tumor in the nose, which is always—apparently, at least—Inlateral, presents a smooth, reddish appearance, is tender on jiressure, and is seen at the lower part of the septum, shading off above and liehind into the contiguous mucous membrane. Fluc- tuation is distinct, and is often felt on both sides of tlie septum, and through it; the latter is always the case if there is perforation of the carti- Fleming, Dublin Quart. Jour. Med. Science, vol. iv. pp. 16-28.