860 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. occur in the several regions. Thus, in the hjqiochondria, parietal abscess may simulate hydatid or abscess of the liver, enlarged gall-bladder, diseased spleen, a circumscribed collection of pus beneath the diaphragm, or empyema. A further difficulty exists if the parietal abscess is combined with jaundice. In the umbilical region, strumous disease of the mesentery, malignant affec- tions of the stomach, pancreas, and peritoneum, and fecal accumulations in the transverse colon; in the loins, affections of the kidney, colon, and spine; in the iliac regions, disease of the caecum or sigmoid flexure, of the kidney, or of the pelvic organs, and enlarged l^’mphatic glands; and in the hypogastrium, pelvic cellulitis, and ovarian and uterine disease, have been known to simulate or be simulated by parietal abscess. Difficulty of diagnosis may arise, too, from an abscess forming whilst a patient is undergoing treatment for some other ailment. I was once greatly concerned about a brawny, tender swelling, accompanied with much constitutional irritation, whicli formed in the hypo- gastric region of a very stout young Dutchman, upon whom several days before I had used Holt’s dilator for uretliral stricture. There was no trouble about the bladder or urethra, and no sign whatever of extravasation, but the inffammatory condition of the abdominal parietes was enough for a time to cause some alarm. After several daj’s an abscess pointed and was evacuated, and the patient made a rapid recovery ; the suppuration was entirely super- ficial to the muscles, and in the loose, thick, subcutaneous fatty tissue. Fibrous, fibro-cellular, and malignant tumors have been mistaken for chronic or subacute abscesses; and “ phantom tumors” may also lead to error. These “ tumors” are due to tonic contractions of portions of muscles, and may occur in almost any part of the abdominal walls. Most frequently they are found in the course of the rectus, but sometimes in the transver- salis, one of the oblique muscles, or the (piadratus himborum. They are more or less circumscribed and hard, and can be recognized by their being fairly reso- nant, not painful or tender on pressure, and by generally disappearing under continued manipulation, and during the withdrawal of the patient’s attention. It will be only after a careful investigation of the symptoms and clinical history, and repeated examination of the indurated or tender area of the abdominal walls, tliat a correct opinion can lie arrived at in a large number of cases. Assistance in some instances will be gained by a rectal or vaginal exploration, and the excretions from the bowels and kidneys should always be examined. Sometimes an exploratory incision or puncture will be required to make the diagnosis quite clear. When the abscess, or inflammatory de- qiosit which precedes abscess, is chronic, it constitutes one of the many causes of the “ fixed abdominal pain,” and then has to be distinguished specially from inflammatory adhesions within the abdomen, and from the dragging of displaced omentum, colon, or sigmoid flexure. TreaUnent.—This is the same as for local inflammation and abscess in other parts of the body. Rest, the use of warmth and fomentations, the ap]ilieation of from 12 to 20 leeches, and the administration of coolhig salines, will sub- due the intensity of inflammatory action; and anodynes will be re<piired to allay pain. As soon as the presence of matter is suspected, an exploratoiy ]inncture should be made, and the sooner the abscess is freely evacuated the better. There is danger in leaving deep abscesses unopened, as they are liable to set up peritonitis and terminate in fecal fistula; nerves, too, ma}" be dis- sected out and lie bare in the cavity, and bloodvessels may be ulcerated into. The iliac veins have been thus laid open by abscesses spreading from the loins ; the kidney has become disorganized, and the vena cava obliterated, by the pressure of an unrelieved abscess commencing within the sheath of the quadratus, or in the peri-renal fatty and areolar tissue.