MORBID GROWTHS OF THE LARYNX. 731 forceps. Either may be employed to destroy remnants of growths removed by other procedures. Either is applicable in case of small growths, too small to be caught in the grasp of forceps. The caus- tic must be retained in contact with the growth for at least two seconds. Alomentary contact merely scorches the mucous membrane, and is liable to excite additional liyperplasia. The cauterizations are to be repeated at intervals of two days or more, according to the results. Im- mediate inflammatory effects may be moderated by sucking ice for a time. Suffocative spasm fol- lows the flrst manipulations, but becomes more and more controllable thereafter. Voluntary, prolonged expiration is the best controller of such spasm, which usually relaxes with the deep inspiration succeeding. Intense spasm usually yields readily to the inhalation of amyl-nitrite. The posterior portion of the larynx is far more susceptible than the anterior. Eortunately, the growths under consideration usually occupy the anterior portion. Fortunately, too, the growth is rarely sensitive, how- ever sensitive the surrounding structures. The tissues must be gradually inured to bear caustic applications. Life has been sacrificed by neglect of this precaution. The procedure may be regarded as safe, however, in discreet hands. Various methods have been recommended for producing local anres- thesia to avoid spasm, systemic anaesthesia being unsuitable to intra-lalyn- geal surgery. Vone are wholly satisfactory, and some are actually dangerous. It is far preferable to accustom the parts to the contact of probes and forceps, and thus induce a tolerance to more active measures. Incision is performed with knife blades, attached to properly curved rods. To meet the various indications, the blades must present their cutting edges in the proper directions (Eig. 1084). In skilled hands, naked instruments are better than concealed ones; Init the method of incision is so little in use and so generally superseded, that more than its mere mention is hardly necessary. Abscission is performed witli knives sucli as those mentioned, witli scissors, with cutting forceps, and with guillotines similar to those used for abscission Fig. 1083. Cautery terminals. (Bruns.) Fig. 1084, Laryngeal knives. (Toboltl.) of tonsils. Knives are open to the ol)jection of inflicting injury on the eju- glottis, the tongue, or some other structure, in tlieir withdrawal. Scissors (Eig. 1086) are rarely used, Intt are more effective than knives. Guillotines arc much the safest instruments, especially the guarded guillotine of Stoerk