OPERATIONS ON THE KIDNEYS. 1101 Causes of Death Suppuration Peritonitis Hemorrhage Urajmia Shock Infarction Pyajinia Vomiting Ahdomiiial Nephrectomy. Lumbar Nephrectomy. 1 0 . 10 (4 being septic) 2 . 4 1 . 1 0 . 4 7 . 2 0 . 1 2 0 2 Total 23 19 As the whole number of abdominal operations was 46, and that of lumbar operations 50—the ntiture of the openition in 4 cases being uncertain—it appears that peritonitis, hemorrhage, pulmonary embolism, pyaemia, and exhaustion from suppuration, are more fretpient causes of death after abdomi- nal nephrectomy than after lumbar, in the proportion of nearly four to one; whilst the number of deaths from “ urfemia,” “ vomiting,” and “ shock,” after lumbar nephrectomy as compared with abdominal, is fourteen to live. The greater mortality of the lumbar operation from urmniia and shock, is due to the tact that in several of the lumbar cases both kidneys were diseased at the time of the operation, tliat in one case the last rib had been removed and the pleural cavity laid open, that in another the patient was reduced by cancer of the uterus, and that others of the patients were in an unfit state for any surgical operation of importance. The abdominal operation, tlierefore, seems to be a much more fonnidable atfair for the patient; and the fatality from causes directly traceable to the operation, and apart from the state of health of the })atient, much higher. Looked at from the point of view of the totals, the same conclusion is arrived at, but the ditference is not as striking. Thus, out of 100 cases, the nature and result of the operation were recorded in 96. Of the 96 patients, 46 sub- mitted to abdominal nephrectomy, and, of these, 23 recovered and 23 died; 50 were operated on liy lumljar ne[ilirectomy, and of these, 27 recovered and 19 died. A good deal as to result depends upon the nature of the disease for which the operation is performed, but less than might a prioii be expected. Of 18 operations for malignant disease, 9 were fatal; and of 16 for fioating kidney, 6 were fatal. Of the 16 })atients Avitli fioating kidney, 14 were sub- mitted to abdominal operation, and 6 died ; two were ti-eated by the lumbar method and both recovered. Of 7 lumbar operations for ureteral fistula, 6 ended in recovery and 1 in deatli. I think that tlie conclusion pointed out by these figures, is that, though in many cases, from the size of the tumors, the abilominal opei’ation is easier, and therefore better, yet that the lumbar method is as a rule much safer, and should be preferred in all cases in which the kidne}-’ is not much enlarged, in which the tumor can be reduced by puncture, mid in which the loin space is not too much contracted. Kroner^ has collected and analyzed 41 cases of nephrectomy. In 21 the ab- dominal operation was performed, with 14 deaths; and in 20 tlie lumbar operation, with 5 deaths, but in 3 others the result is unstated. From these cases Kroner concludes that the higher mortality of the abdominal o])ei’ation is not owing to its greater dangew, but that it is due to the fact that these cases include those in which the diagnosis was uncertain, and in which the o])eration was theretore commenced tentatively.^ [The whole number of cases ' Arcliiv fur rtyiiakologie. 2 Kroner’s cases are included in Harris’s list, Lut for a good abstract of Kroner’s conclusions, the reader may refer to the Medical Times and Gazette for October 22, 1881.