432 DISEASES AXD INJURIES OF THE KOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. Partial excision of tlie jaw, according to the plan of Maisonneuve, will in most cases fulfil all the indications presented. Partial excision afibrds an excellent view of the pharynx, and leaves the patient with very slight external disfigurement. Tlje orbital plate and malar tuberosity being left intact, the eyeball does not descend from its normal position, and the prominence of the cheek remains—which is not the case after complete excision. The skill of the dentist can readily imitate the lost portion of bone, and the gap in the palate can be closed, partly by staphyloraphy, and parti}’ by an obturator made of hard rubber. Of all the operations mentioned, then, which are applicable to grave cases. Dr. Sands gives the preference to partial excision of the upper jaw, as the one which is adapted to favor the most complete removal of the tumor with the least practical disfigurement. In this view he is in accord with the majority of surgeons of the day. Cartilaginous growths have elsewhere been alluded to (page 409) as occurring not infrequently upon the septum, more in the form of general thickening of its cartilaginous portion than as distinct tumors, and often asso- ciated with deviation of the cartilage. Large cartilaginous tumors springing from either the ethmoidal cells or frontal sinuses are very uncommon, and but few instances are upon record.' ^diey usually aftect young persons, cause frightful deformity, and lead to the early death of the patient. When small, they may perhaps be removed by means of the knife, gouge, or chisel, through the nasal opening ; but if large, with deep attachments to the base of the cranium, or, perhaps, lying in contact with the under surface of the brain, as is usually the case, operative interference is out of the question. Osseous Growths.—Bony formations of various classes are found -within the nasal ^lassages. First, exostoses, developed from the bony portion of the nasal septum or floor of the nostril, which are common; likewise tumors springing from some neighboring bone and invading secondarily the nose ; or growths which may be the result of strumous or syphilitic disease of the osseous fi’amework of the nasal cavity, and into the formation of which car- tilage may enter in variable proportion and disposition.^ Second, ossified cartilaginous or sarcomatous growths. (Mackenzie.) And third, a remarkable form which is to be carefully distinguished from the true exostoses, whether cancellated, compact, or eburnated, and from the mixed bony and cartilagi- nous groivtlis just alluded to ; instances of this form are reported by Legouest, Duka,^ Michon,' and Dolbeau,® and the whole subject is elaborately treated of by Ollivier.® In all such cases the bony growth is developed from between the layers of the nasal mucous membrane or periosteum which lines the cavities, independently of any apparent disease of the parts which envelop it, and always remains free and movable; it may take its origin in the frontal sinuses or in the nasal fossae, and by slow growth may attain a consider- able size. It has been suggested that these growths may be analogous in their mode of development and subsequent separation to the antlers of the Cervidce. (Durham.) Thudichum^ adds that exostosis of the turbinated bones is an occasional complication of nasal polypus. 1 See Ure, etanley, and Prochaska (Disquisit. Anat.-pliysiol. Orgauismi. Corp. Human., p. 172. Vienna, 1812) ; also, Cooper’s Surgical Dictionary. 2 Trelat and Dolbeau, Bull, de la Soc. de Cliir., 1862, p. 261; and Morgan, Guy’s IIosp. Reports, series i., vol. i. p. 403 ; sequel, series i., vol. vii. p. 491. 'J Path. Trans., vol. xviii. p. 256; vol. xix. p. 311, another case. ^ Mem. de la Soc. de Chir. de Paris, tome ii. 6 Bull, de I’Acad. de Med., tome xxxi. p. 107. ® Sur les Tumeurs osseuses des Posses uasales. Paris, 1869. ’ Lancet, Sept. 1868.