1011 ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. swelling, with tenderness and pain in the left side, and at a later stage possibly ascites or even general dropsy. Splenitis may however go on to suppuration without giving rise to any definite local symptom. In the later stashes there may be hemorrhage from the intestine or stomach, as in other splenic atfections.* The diagnosis must lie made from lardaceous disease and from Hodgkin’s disease of the spleen, from malignant disease of the stomach and pancreas, from renal, supra-renal, omental, and left-side hepatic disease,^ and from ovarian tumor. IVheii the sharp anterior edge of the spleen, and especially when the notches in this edge, can be felt, any abdominal enlargement springing from the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions, and below, will point to splenic en- largement, even though it extend beyond the linea alha on the right, and down to the pelvis. If the enlargement of the s})leen have been preceded by pain and fever, and have been subserpiently attended by rigors, night-sweats, and tluctuation, the presence of abscess may with some conlidence be predicted. Prognosis.—This is most unfavorable if the abscess arises from any infec- tive cause. If the result of injury, recovery may follow the opening and drainage of the cavity. The treatment of abscess of the spleen resemliles that of abscess of the liver. When possible, the abscess should be laid o])en by an incision through the abdominal wall, and the cavity drained. Tliis i)rocedure shoidd be con- ducted ill the way that lias been already described at page 1007. AVhen the abscess is situated near to, or reaches as far as, the surface of the spleen, the symptoms will with more certainty point to the nature of the disease, and operative treatment, unless the abscess he due to septic infection, will be more hojieful. When the aliscess is in the centre of the spleen, the symptoms may be cpiite insufficient to arouse the faintest suspicion of its })rcsence, as in the case of the gentleman described by Dr. Abercrombie ; and in these cases operative measures would lie complicated by uncertainty as to the situation, and even as to the ])resence of pus. If, however, a deep-seated aliscess l)e detected, it should be emptied by a trocar and canula, after exposing the spleen through an abdominal opening; and the cannla should be retained, or its place taken by a full-sized tube, such as a catheter, passed through the canula before its withdrawal. IV. Abscess op the Pancreas.—Inflammation of the pancreas is not common, and abscess is but rarely met with. Various authors have however recoi’iled cases. In some, only a }iortion, in others the whole of the gland- tissue has been found destroyed, and in tlio latter case the gland-ca|isule has become a mere membranous bag tilled with pus. Portal saw two [)Ounds of pus esca[>e from such a sac. In some instances unchanged pancreatic tissue has been found floating in pus. Sometimes the |ius is mixed with pancreatic juice, and is a clear, inodorous, yellowish fluid containing small curds. Sometimes it is grayish-white or greenish, and of a lixint, mawkish smell. Occasionally it is very fetid. The caj>sule partakes in the inflammation, and becomes a good deal thickened. Or the sup].)urative process may involve the pancreas by invasion from without, and be but part of a circumscribed ]»eritoneal abscess. The su}>purative process commences in the interlobular cellular tissue, and a nundier of small punctiform abscesses form, which may ijicrease and gradually coalesce. ' Aitken, Practice of Medicine, vol. ii. 2 See Dr. llaBerslion’s case in (luy’s Hospital lieports, 3d ser., vol. xviii. p. 383. Tlie diag- no.sis of tliis case was olisciire, and it was doubtful whether the abscess was in the kidney or In tire si)leen, or in the left lobe of tlie liver.