352 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. the membrane simply appears to be more bollowed out or sunken than it should be, and, according to the degree of congestion of the mucous mem- brane of the middle ear, and to the presence or absence of fluid exudation in the drum-cavity, its color may be either of a reddish or purplish tone, or simply of a dark, greenish hue. Such a membrane, when inflated by Polit- zer’s or Valsalva’s method, will instantly change its entire appearance; becoming as convex, on the side towards the observer, as it before was con- cave. As the air encaged in the middle ear escapes by way of the Eustachian tube, we can see the membrane recede to or beyond its natural position. Another change will also attract our attention ; the surface of the membrane, perfectly smooth and polished while in its sunken condition, becomes dull and s(unetimes even creased after it has been inflated. Sometimes, under too forcible an inflation, the membrane ruptures. Enlarged tonsils and a well-marked naso-pharyngeal catarrh are probably always associated with this condition of the membrana tympani. If we fail to And them, we may well doubt the correctness of our diagnosis. Such an ati’ophied drum-mem- brane is precisely like a newly-produced or “ cicatricial” drum-membrane. It is now a well-established fact that the membrana tympani may, through the ulcerative action of disease, be totally destroyed, and then, afterward, upon the return of the region to a healthy condition, an entirely new mem- brane may be re-created. The latter, however, lacks the unyielding charac- ter of tlie normal drum-menil)rane, by reason of the fact that the inextensible radial fibres are not reproduced, except perhaps to a very limited degree. A careful incpiiry into the previous history of tlie case can alone enable us to decide Avhich of the two conditions is the one under observation. In the second form of atrophy of tlie membrana tympani, the picture pre- sented is markedly diflerent from that observed in the form just described. The membrane occupies a perfectly natural position, or at all events it is not sunken sufliciently to attract our attention. It is remarkably transparent, however, and looks like very tightly-stretched parchment. Through its posterior superior cpiadrant, we can see distinctly the whitish mass of the end of the long process of the anvil. Below, a shadowy area, corresponding to the niche of the fenestra rotunda, attracts our attention. Anterior to these regions lies the apparently white and perfectly smooth promontory, or inner bony wall, of the tympanum. This whitish appearance is due to the fact tliat the mucous membrane, which should naturally conceal the whiteness of the underlying bone, has been reduced to such a state of thinness and non- vascularity that, to all intents and purposes, the hone lies exposed to view. The same w^asting awaj^ of the mucous membrane takes place on the inner side of the drum-membrane, and thus renders it unusually transparent. The radial fibres do not participate to any marked degree in this atro]Iiy, and consequently the drum-membrane retains its firm, unyielding character. In the first form, our treatment should be directed to the naso-pharyngeal catarrh, upon which the atrophy of the drum-membrane depends. Until recently, I had always believed that a drnm-membrane, winch had once been allowed to undergo atrophy of its substantia propria through prolonged, undue atmospheric pressure upon its outer surface, would never afterward recover any material part of its inextensibility. I am quite sure now that under proper treatment, the eftect of which shall he to remove undue atmo- spheric pressure upon the outer side of the membrane, it will slowly regain at least some of this valuable acoustic property. As far as the second form of atrophy is concerned, I know of no treatment that is likely to prove of any service whatever. Rupture op the drum-membrane, from a blow upon the side of the head, or from a violent concussion of the air in the immediate neighborhood of the