INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 908 1 Inquiry into the Process of Nature in repairing Injuries of the Intestines, etc., p. 131. cure may be quite complete, iii some cases after, in others -svitliout, sutures having been used; that the cure may be effected without an abnormal opening, though the wounded viscus become fixed to the parietal peritoneum beneath the external wound ; that the cure may be attended with a false anus or fecal fistula, which may or may not close after a longer or shorter time; that recovery may take place after the dangerous and somewhat complicated i>ro- ceeding of enterectomy; or, finally, that deatli from peritonitis or collapse may occur in consequence of primary or secondary effusion of the contents into the peritoneal cavity, or even without such effusion taking }»lace. The mode of union of wounds of the intestine, whether by means of the suture or through the agency of unassisted nature, is precisely the same. Travers says “ it commences Avith the agglutination of the contiguous mucous surfaces, probably by the exudation of a fluid similar to tliat which glues together the sides of a recent flesh-wound when siqqiorted in contact. Tlie adhesive inflammation supervenes and binds ilown the reverted edges of the peritoneal coat, from the whole circnniference of which a layer of coagulable lymph is effused, so as to envelop the Avounded boAvel. The action of the longitudinal fibres being o]>posed to the artificial connection, the sections mutually recede as the sutures loosen by the process of ulcerative absorption. During this time the lymph deposited becomes organized, b}- Avhich further retraction is prevented and the original cylinder Avith the threads attached to it are encompassed by the neAv tunic. The gut ideerates at the points of the sutures, and these fall into its canal. The fissures left by tbe sutures are gradually healed up ; but the opjiosed villous surfaces, so far as my observation goes, neither adhere nor become consolidated liy the granulation, so that the insterstice marking the division internally, is proba- !)ly never obliterated.” An inspection of the external surface of the intestine Avould not, hoAvever, discover even at a recent period after the injury the spot at Avhich the division had taken place. Travers (and from his earlier experi- ments, Reybard also) was of opinion that the edges of the divided mucous membrane never united Avith each other, but that the intersi)ace betAveen them Avas occupied by organized lymph, and that this formed a complete cicatrix adhering to both the serous and muscular coats. Travers remarks that “ the adhesion Avhich takes place betAveen the mucous surfaces in a fcAv hours after their connection by suture, is in no instance permanent, being destroyed by the retraction of the divided parts Avhen the sutures loosen. But if this retraction could be prevented and the mucous surfaces Avere retained in con- tact, it is probable that no organized and no permanent union could take place betwixt them, for the internal coat of the bowel is indisposed to the adhesive inflammation.’'^ It is on this account that the sutures, Avhen cut short and not left projecting from the external Avound, ahvays pass into the canal; Avhen left long and projecting from the external Avound, they ulcerate} toAvards the serous surface and escape through the .peritoneal cavity. This is one of the great dangers of the practice of leaving the sutures long and communicating with the outer AA’ound. Other Avriters, sucli as Betrequin, Jobert, and Gross—and Reybard also, from his later experiments—conclude that the mucous coat can cicatrize completely like the other tunics. Gross remarks that the adhesion of the mucous membrane, tbough achieved moi-e sloAvly than that of the other tunics, is ultimately complete and nuiy occur in one of two Avays; (1) either the edges come into contact by the gradual absoiq)tion of the effused lymph, and then coalesce after a period varying from a fcAV Aveeks to as many months; or (2) sometimes, but not often, tbe breach in the mucous membrane is bealed by granulations. Betrequin