INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. 600 3 Loc. cit. * Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, August 1, 1S78. tiDguisli its nature. Removal of portions of tlie grow’tli by the knife, wire- snare, and ecraseur^ have given unsatisfactory results in the hands of several surgeons, and, if any operation is resorted to, total extirpation of the tonsil should be performed. This operation, though said to have been employed by Langenbeck and Ilueter, in 1865, Avas first described bj" Dr. Cheever,’ of Boston, who performed it successfully in 1869, and again in 1878.^ In both cases, the operation w'as done through an external incision beloAv the angle of the jaw; and in the second case, the jaw Avas divided and turned up so as to gain sufficient room Avithout dividing the digastric, stylodiyoid and stylo- glossus muscles, as had been done in the first case. In both instances the tonsil, Avhen reached by dividing tlie superior constrictor of the pharynx, Avas enucleated Avith less trouble and hemorrhage than might have been anticipated. Dr. Cheever’s first patient Avas lost sight of; in the second case the history may thus be summarized. The primary groAvth began in the tonsil in August. Lymphatic poisoning occurred, and a bubo formed, in November. The tumor and the bubo Avere removed by the knife, early in January. Early in February, a second bubo had formed and Avas removed. In March, the origi- nal groAvth Avas sprouting again, and Avas tAvice burnt aAvay, the bubo not recurring. In May, the pharyngeal tumor Avas larger than ever, and the bubo was recurrent in an enormous groAvth. As Dr. CheeA^er remarks, “ the ques- tion remains Avhether, in aucav of such rapid and persistent recurrence as in the second case, it is Avorth Avhile to interfere Avith cancer of the tonsil at all by operation.” In Dr. Cheever’s second case, Rnd also in Mr. Fitzgerald’s case of fibro-cel- lular tumor, already described, tracheotomy AAms done, and the upper aper- ture of the larynx Avas plugged to prevent the entrance of blood into the lungs; and it AAmuld appear that if this Avere effectually done, enucleation of the entire groAvth from Avithin the mouth might be fairly attempted, the dis- eased lymphatic gland being dissected out separately. Mi’. Fitzgerald,^ in- deed, says that, had he knoAvn as much as he did afterwards, he Avould not have made an incision through the cheek, for after free division of the muscles that bind the lips to the I)one, the mouth can be opened to almost any extent that may be required.” In October, 1882, Mr. Golding-Bird and Mr. Clement Lucas, of Guy’s Hospital, communicated to the Clinical Society of London cases of epithe- lioma of the tonsil, removed by the former gentleman from the outside, by Cheever’s operation, and by the latter from Avithin the mouth, portions of the soft palate and tongue being at the same time taken aAvaju The results, though not leading to a permanent cure, Avere encouraging. Follicular disease of the pharynx is commonly met Avith as an accompani- nent of chronic glandular laryngitis, or dysphonia clcricorum. The pharynx and fauces are seen to be injected and roughened, OAving to hypertrophy of the glandular structures of the mucous membrane. The patient complains of dryness of the throat, and is constantly clearing it, and haAA'king up small quantities of viscid mucus. The hoarseness of the voice after use for a short time is a marked feature of the disease, and depends upon a similarly congested condition of the laryngeal mucous membrane. In slight cases, much good may be done by proper elocutional instruction, and particularly by teaching the patient to use his lips and tongue rather than his tln’oat in vocalizing. The use of soft astringent lozenges (catechu or rhatany), which are to be sloAvly sucked at intervals, and the use of a spray Avith a solution 1 Sm-gical Cases, Boston, 1869.