834 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. Counter-irritation, gentle pressure by means of a belladonna or other plaster, support to the gland, and attention to the health, will generally relieve such swellings. If there be aii}'^ doulit as to the existence of fluctuation, aspiration will decide the point, and if an abscess be present, it should be opened anti- septically at a convenient point. Lymphatic Inflammation.—Velpeau, in his treatise on the diseases of the breast, describes a special form of lymphatic inflammation, and gives the following symptoms as characteristic:— 1. Irregular chills, sometimes a downright shivering fit; a rapid and tumultuous pulse, which is unequal rather than sti’ong; heat of the skin ; restlessness ; loss of sleep and appetite ; and sometimes nausea. 2. In the breast there are pain, great heat, swelling, and red patches irregularly scattered about, coming to a focus in painful spots, more or less raised from the surface. 3. Generally there is a painful state of the axillary glands, and sometimes reddish striae lead from the breast to the armpits. Chaps, excoriations, eczematous eruptions, abrasions of the skin, and all affections of the nipple and areola, are the ordinary causes of lymphatic inflammation of the breast. The treatment of this condition is that of the other forms of acute inflam- mation of the breast. Irritable Mamma, or Irritable Tumor of the Mamma. In this afleetion the whole breast, or a portion of it—most frequently tbe latter—becomes hard and tender to the touch. In some cases the principal symptom is tenderness, without much app)arent hardness. The condition is most common in unmarried women, or in married women who have no children, and is often troulflesome in regard to its satisfactory treatment. AVhen thickening of the breast-structure exists, the affection may be aggra- vated by constant examination and handling on the part of the patient, often caused by fhe fear that the disease is something of a more serious nature. All varieties of the irritable breast are not infrequently attended with some irritation or disorder of the ovarian, uterine, or digestive functions. Some mental excitement or depression is also a common accompaniment of this affec- tion. It is important that cases in which there is induration of the breast- structures should be accurately diagnosed from cases of morbid growth, and ex])erienced surgeons know that the diagnosis between the two is sometimes difficult. The following are the best means of distinguishing these simple indurations;— 1. Inquiry into the history of the case will show that there is no steady increase in size, such as occurs in the case of morlfld growths. 2. There is usually much more pain and tenderness than is common in morbid growths. 3. They are not circumscribed, as in the case of simple growths, and their hardness is not as marked as in the case of scirrhus. A special means of distino-uishing between the hardness of simple induration and that of scirrhus, is to press the swelling steadily against the ribs, when, in the case of the former, the hardness will "be very slight, but in the case of the latter it will be well-marked. Both forms of swelling, when grasped laterally, often feel equally hard ; but when pressed backwards, as has been described, a decided difference is recognized. Mr. Birkett gives as a diagnosfic sign in these cases the fact that “ pain usually follows "the course and distribution of one or more nerves, and that