TUMOKS OF THE JAAVS. 541 in October of the same year. Shortly after, the disease reappeared on the central portion of the jaw, and I removed a further portion, going bej’ond the median line, in January, 1882, but was unable to remove the whole of tbe disease, Avhich had by tins time extensively involved tbe soft tissues of the cheek. Tbe patient died exhausted in April, 1882. In this case the specimens showed ossification taking place in the sarcomatous tissue, and the fungating mass Avhich formed before death would doubtless have developed ^ a complete skeleton sinnlar to that in llowsbip’s case, had the patient’s strength held out sufliciently long. Carcinoma.—The only form of carcinoma atfecting tbe jaws is epithelioma, Avhich is found in at least tivo varieties, the spuamous and the tubular. Tbe ]»osition of these depends upon the nature of the normal epitbelium of tlie part: thus tbe scpiamous epithelioma is developed primarily in the mucous membrane of the palate and gums, tlie iiormal epitbelium of whicli is srpia- mous; Avhilst the tubular form, with cylindrical epithelium, begins in the antrum or nose, the epithelium of both of which is columnar. Both forms of epithelioma have a great tendency to invade surrounding parts, especially the bones, and hence the difiiculty of conp)letely extirpating the disease, except by proceedings of a magnitude wliich m;iy not be justifiable in the weak condition of the patient. Squumoas e\)ithclloma of the jialate and gums begins A^cry insidiously, and its nature is therefore often mistaken at first. Commencing as a small, rag- ged ulcer on tbe mucous membrane of tbe gum, it is often, and proljably correctly, attributed to the irritation of decayed teeth or fangs, or to second- ary syphilis, Imt is regarded as of little importance, or is, perhaps, aggi’avatcd by tbe application of nitrate of silver or other irritants. Ulceration of the })alate of an epitheliornatous character is more frequently attributed to ter- tiary syphilis, and even large gaps in tbe bard palate, cause<l Ip' epithelioma, are supposed to be the result of a broken-doAvn gumma. But epitlielioma of tbe gums or palate never, 1 believe, occurs before tbe age of forty, and moi-e often nearer sixty than fifty, Avbereas the secondary manifestations of syphilis take jilace, as a rule, earlier in life, and the tertiary s^unptoms are much less urgent than those of epithelioma. By involving the subjacent bone, necrosis is induced in tbe course of an epithelioma, and here again error may arise if tbe presence of bare bone be regarded as })athognomonie of necrosis, Avithout considering the cause. Loosening of the teeth is a natural consequence of tbe invasion of the alveolus, and atfords a fair criterion as to the extent of the mischief in the deeper parts. Creeping up the sockets of the teeth of the upper jaAV, squamous ejii- thelioma tends to invade tbe antrum secondarily, and Avithout giA’ing rise to any marked symptoms of antral disease. This form has been described by Reclus^ under tbe title of cijitheliome (vrehrant (boring or burroAving epitlie- lioma), and (Mr. Butliid lias described a case of the kind in a man, aged sixty- tAvo. 1 do not agree Avith that gentleman, boAvever, in regarding tbe disease as extremely rare, tor I have bad at least tliree eases recently under my care, in Avbich the gums and palate Avere primarily affected, but in Avbich tbe antrum Avas fountl to lie extensively involved Avheu it Avas opened up. Tlie treatment of squamous epitlielioma of the jaAvs, as of tliat in other ]>arts of the body, consists in prompt and free removal of the atfected part. When the disease is confined to the gum and margin of the alveolus, com- paratively mild proceedings may be justifiable in the first instance; but if the disease has gone at all deeply, removal of the up})ej’, or of a large por- ' I’rogres Medical. 187(1. 2 I’atliulogical Transactions. 1881.