408 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. which the curvature was so great as to cause the septum to lie in contact with the superior and middle turbinated bones; and Senieleder, in an exami- nation of 49 skulls, found that the septum was straight in only 10, bent towards the left in 20, towards the right in 15, and in 4 was so twisted that it resembled the letter S in shape. As a rule, the deflected part will he found to affect principally the cartila- ginous septum, and to exist at the anterior portion of the latter. Such deviations, however great they may be, but rarely deform the external contour of the nose. When excessive, as the patient develops, the abnormal- ity in the position of the septum turns the nose to one side, and narrows or occludes one or both nostrils. Although probably, in the majority of instances, the conditions here described are congenital, there can be no question but that, in certain cases, deflection or deformity is produced by the common practice of pressing more firmly on one side than the other in Idowing the nose. Bedard explains it by the habit of wiping the nose with the right hand, the deflection being more often to the left than to the right. Be the cause as it may, the condition is an exceedingly common one, and if excessive, it produces such an amount of nasal obstruction, and gives rise to such distressing symptoms, that surgical treatment for its relief is always indicated. Diagnosis is not difficult; the appearance of the occluding mass and its feeling to the touch establish its nature, and this is further shown by an inspection of the unaffected cavity of the nose, which will show a concavity corresponding to the convexity upon the narrowed side. The cure of the condition is attained by various means, all having however for their object the replacement of the cartilaginous septum in the median line, and its reten- tion there, or the removal of the offending portion. Chassaignac^ resorted to subperiosteal resection of the deviated portion. An incision w^as made through the mucous membrane in an antero-posterior direction, low down towards the floor of the nostril on the affected side; the membrane was raised from the cartilage by means of a small spatula, and the convexity of the cartilage then cut away in slices until sufficiently thinned to allow of its being pushed back into its normal position; the mucous mem- brane was then replaced, and the cartilage held in its new position by a sponge inserted in the nostril. Ruppreeht,^ when the deviation is caused by an abrupt curve or bulging, uses a sharp pair of forceps with blades so arranged as to cut out the affected portion of the septum; a communication is thus established between the two sides of the nasal cavity, and, according to the inventor, the permeability of the closed side is also restored. Blandin^ per- forates the septum in the deflected portion with a like punch. Steele^ makes a stellated division of the mucous membrane and cartilage, then forcibly replaces the divided septum, and retains it in position by ivory or wooden plugs introduced into the nostrils. The division of the cartilage destroys in a great measure its resiliency, and the plugs are more to give support than to eimrt pressure. The instrument by means of which this is effected is a stout forceps, shod on one blade with knives set in stellar form; the two blades are united after the manner of obstetrical forceps, to facilitate introduction and withdrawal. The great advantage of the latter operation is, that it takes no portion of the septum avmy, as is the case in both of the former; and though deformity of the nose never follows the removal in these instances of a small portion of the septum, the effects of the resulting arti- ficial perforation are disagreeable in numerous ways (whistling noise during > (laz. HeMom., II Jnin, 1869. ^ wieii. med. Wochensch., S. 1157. 1868. 3 Diet. Encyclop6d. des Sciences Med., art. Nez. ■* Archives of Laryngology, vol. iii. No. 1.