INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 802 was found, lying dead, that same night, by those v/ho went to seek him immediately on the wagon entering Charlottenburg without a driver. With the most important internal injuries here, there was externally visible nothing save a trifling abrasion of the cuticle over the right cheek bone, and a similar one on the left arm. Who could have suspected what was found internally ? On and in the head there was nothing remarkable, only that the sinus transversalis was more than usually full of blood. On opening the spi- nal canal in the neck, about a quart of dark, fluid blood escaped. The spinous process of the first thoracic vertebra was broken off, and lay loose in tlie soft parts. The deep muscles of the back were ecchymosed down its whole length ; the spinal marrow was uninjured. On opening the left thorax, about thirty ounces of dark fluid were found, but there was no heart in the usual position ; on the contrary, it was lying loose on the bottom of the thoracic cavity, for the pericardium had been completely torn across, and the heart torn from the large bloodvessels. The terminations of the aorta and pulmonary artery could be clearly made out; the substance of the heart was tense and firm, and both sides, particularly the ventricles, contained much dark, coagulated blood. The left lung was also torn almost across at its middle division, and, finally, there was a laceration in the right lobe of the liver two inches long and half an inch deep, and yet nothing was perceptible on the body externally. This is perhaps the most extreme case of rupture of the pericardium and of the heart on record, and no fracture of the chest-wall existed, bejmnd a detachment of the spinous process of a dorsal vertehra, caused by the resist- ance of the structure against which the body was pressed. We have already referred to its importance as bearing on Gosselin’s theory of rupture of the lung. The commonest cause of rupture of the pericardium and heart, as one would a priori conclude, is contusion of the chest with fracture of the bones, hut a large number of the cases collected by Fischer* are examples of rupture without fracture of the bone, 32 to 44 being the proportion. While rupture of the heart and pericardium occur commonly together, in either of these injuries, the heart alone may he the seat of lesion, or the pericardium; among the seventy-six cases referred to, the separate lesions were observed each in five instances. “ In all the cases of rupture of the pericardium without lesion of the heart, the rent has been of large size, and has been accompanied by fractures of the ribs and sternum.” Such is the assertion of Follin, based on the reports of Fischer and others. I have myself observed an excep- tion to the latter portion of his statement:— A man, aged 22, a painter, fell on bis left shoulder and head, from a height of thirty feet; he died in less than two hours, from the head-injury. Tliere existed a blood- extravasation upon the sternum, and in the middle line of the neck at its lower part. Tlie right lung, otherwise healtliy, was deeply bruised, and the pericardium on the right side, where the pleura covers it in front of the root of the lung, was torn vertically, the rent being large enough to admit the hand, which passed into the pericardial cavity behind the phrenic nerve. The heart had a considerable superficial bruise at its base, but no rupture.* A similar case, though from a different cause—the blow of the wadding of a small cannon—wliere in a healthy young man the heart completely hurst the pericardium, without injury to the chest-wall, is I’ecorded by Bonetus.® The facts establishing the possibility of recovery after these injuries, arc too few and far between to admit of any general conclusion being drawn from them. There exist the records of su})posed dislocation of the heart, of Stokes, and a few others, where life has been prolonged, but the published observations of such cases are too imperfect to prevent the general conclu- ' Ueber die Wunden des Herzens und des Ilerzbeutels. Arcliiv f. klin. Cbir. 1868. * Bennett, Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. Ixviii. 1879. * Sepulcbret. lib. iv. sect. 3, obs. 27.