INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 98 sliould now be exercised, and each turn must be made cautiously and with A"ery light pressure. By a slight rocking movement of the trephine, the looseness of the piece can be ascertained; but it is better to lay the instru- ment aside, and seizing the edge of the disk in the grasp of a pair of stout forceps, gently move it from side to side. If loosened at one edge, the trephine teeth must be made to cut upon the opposite, attached part, for a turn or two, when the forceps should again test the stability of the disk. When loosened, the bone may come away in the crown of the trephine, but I think it safer to remove it bj" tilting the piece out with the forceps, using a rocking move- ment, and ahvays drawdng it out tow^ards that side wdiere any portion of the inner table remains unsawui, as’ then tlie dura mater escapes the slightest injury from the other thoroughly sawui and perhaps splintered edge of bone. Any portions of the inner table that are left behind, can be removed wdth the forceps, elevator, or lenticular. If the case be one of punctured fracture, a trephine large enough to include the starring of the outer table should be used, wlien most of the fragments will come away at once. Great care must be exercised in removing splinters of the inner table, lest the dmu mater or venous sinuses he w^ounded. In the case of an ordinary depressed fracture, the treidiine should be applied so that only about two-thirds of the circumference of the cut will be located upon the sound bone. A trephine of only sufficient size to enable an easy introduction of the elevator should be used. If after the removal of a disk of bone sufficient room have not been obtained, fi-ee use of the gouge-forceps or Iley’s saw will usually suffice to eidarge the opening; otherwise, a new segment of bone must be removed wdth the trephine. If the fracture is near a sinus wdiich w'e sus- pect may have been wounded by the depressed fragments, the trephine-cut should be so planned as to give free access, if necessary, to any bleeding point. When operating for blood or pus w'ithin the cranium, a trephine with a large crowui is preferable. Abeniethy suggested, that at the very outset of suppu- rative osteomyelitis a disk of the outer table only of the skull should be re- moved wdth the trephine, so as to give free vent to the unhealthy pus. The advice is theoretically good, and has been approved by Lidell, but I am not aware that it has ever been put in practice. I‘erformed for whatever purpose, all loose fragments of bone should be removed, depressed lueces elevated, but allow'^ed to remain in situ, unless evi- dently so much denuded of pericranium and dura mater as to be likely to become necrosed, and the edges of the opening in the skull smoothed as far as practicable, wdth the gouge-forceps, or file-surface of the elevator, so as to lessen the risk of ulceration of the dura mater. If the sinus-like veins of the diploe bleed, a pellet of softened wax will readily arrest the flow', if the point be accessible. I was once compelled, on account of the very free hemorrhage, to pass a pledget of lint beneath the margins of an irregular opening of the frontal bone, wdien the inner table and diploe w'ere broken for a considerable distance beyond the outer table, and to leave it there betw'een the dura mater and bone for tw^enty-four hours. The bleeding in this case was so free that I had not time to remove the bony edge to reach tlie source of hemorrhage, wdiich burst out as soon as I had elevated a large fragment. The patient recovered. In another instance, wdiere I successfully removed nearly the w'hole of the left temporal fossa, for a terrible crush of this part, after taking up and tying w'ith fine catgut one or more branches of the middle meningeal artery, which lay in the dura mater, I w'as finally compelled to fill the wdiole wound wdth corrosive-sublimate cotton, and lay dowui the flaps to arrest the free oozing; this case also ended in recovery. After arresting hemorrhage, the W'ound should be freely and repeatedly