INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 822 gives no instance of a wound which gave rise to eflusion, relieved, or which should have been relieved, by puncture of the pericardium. Indeed, silence in this matter is perhaps best, for but few have had opportunities for treat- ment of pericardial eflusion by puncture. -All are ready to diagnose with j)recision, in idiopathic cases, the existence of effusion, but none have ad- vanced much further in exactness than Larrey, even though he was ignorant of the use of the stethoscope. I have known the errors of Desault in diagnosis repeated—not indeed to the extent of opening the chest for pericardial effu- sion—but little short of this; the diagnosis made by the physician, and the case remitted to the surgeon for operation, where no fluid whatever existed in the pericardium. Caution, then, in this matter must lead me to advise, if an operation is to be undertaken, that the surgeon should follow the mode of Desault or Larrey, rather than adopt the puncture with a capillary trocar, as practised by Aran. I freely admit that the modern successes of Allbutt and others in puncturing Avith the trocar are against this view; but in the uncer- tainty that must attend the diagnosis of a traumatic pericarditis as compared with the idiopathic form, Avhich is usually the subject of this mode of treat- ment, I incline to the more cautious practice. [The operation by incision is said to have been first practised by Romero, in 1801. It has recently been revived by Rosenstein, Kummell, Partzevsky, and S. AVest. The literature of pericardial paracentesis, which may be conveniently performed with the aspirator in either the fourth or the fifth intercostal space, has been particu- larly studied by Dr. J. B. Roberts, of Philadelphia, Avho has collected 41 cases of which 22 were fatal, but in most instances from causes independent of the oj^eration.] The oldest method proposed for the puncture of the pericardium—the per- foration of the sternum by the trephine, proposed by Riolan—leads us to the complication of chest-wounds for which this operation has been practised suc- cessfully, namely the development of abscess in the anterior division of the mediastinum, as the result of fracture or gunshot contusion of the sternum. Mediastinal Abscess. Probably the opportunities for the stud}’ of this affection as the result of gunshot injury of the sternum are })ast, for the conical rifle-bullet of the present day will be larely found to strike and fracture the bone, and fall out of the wound, as in the early cases of mediastinal abscess recorded by Petit. Tlie symptoms which such an abscess give rise to are the development of fever in the early stage of the wound—aljout the fifth day—or at some more remote period, Avith rigors; a sense of Aveight and oppression in the front of the chest, Avith pain in coughing, drinking, etc.; after the occurrence of cough, breathlessness “ as if one had been running and more or less oedema over the sternum. AVith these indications. Petit applied the trephine at the site of the Avound Avith success, giving issue to pus pent up behind the bone. There is no doubt that this treatment Avas correct, but Ave may doubt the statement of Petit,^ that, had it not been adopted, the result Avould have been fatal; for the area of the sternum is so limited that, in all probability, matter, forming behind it as the result of injury to its tissue, Avould speedily make its way to the surface at one or other of its borders. Arising in circumstances other than those of injury—as the result of caries, either scrofulous or syph- ilitic—the matter Avhich forms behind the sternum escapes either laterally or ' II n’y a pas lieu de douter que le malade fiit mort si on ne lui avoit pas fait cette operation. Petit, Traits des Maladies Cliirurgicales, tome i. p. 143.