951 RETRO-PERITONEAL EXTRAVASATION AND SUPPURATION. Lastly, puerperal inflammations are frecpient causes of widespread suppura- tion in the cellular tissue of the abdomen, as Avell as of the pelvis. Symptoms.—These vary according to the cause and situation of the suppu- ration, and as to whether it is acute or chronic in character. They closely resemble the symptoms which are caused by the localized suppurations within the peritoneal cavity. The acute form begins with febrile symptoms—-rigors, high temperature, quick pulse, loss of appetite, intense thirst, frequent sick- ness, headache, and constipation; followed by night sweats, great weakness, and pain and tenderness in the aftected region, Avhich any movement and some positions of the body aggravate; the countenance assumes a pinched, anxious, sallow, and sometimes a cadaveric expression; emaciation becomes extreme; and the abdomen gets hard, swollen, painful, and tympanitic. Local perito- nitis is apt to arise, and septicfemia or pytemia to set in. Chronic or subacute suppuration commences very insidiously ; the abscess may take years to form, and it often proceeds far before the symptoms are sufficiently pronounced to lead to an accurate diagnosis. There are a feeling of malaise, with more or less dyspeptic troubles ; obscure rheumatic pains ; a sensation of fulness, or aching, Avith, perhaps, an ill-defined tumor in the aflected region; and some tenderness on deep pressure. Possibly the most marked s^miptoms, for a time, may be the ordinary indications of spinal dis- ease; or simply some oedema of one leg or foot, of some part of the abdominal Avail, or of the scrotum or vulva; or a pain felt along the course of one of the nerves Avhich traverse the abdominal or pelvic Avail, such as the ilio-inguinal, ilio-hypogastric, external cutaneous, or obturator, or a feeling of numbness along the course of one of these nerves. If the suppuration be in tbe pelvis, and especially if connected Avith tiie left broad ligament, a tense con- striction may form about the rectum, and give ilse to the symptoms of stricture of that part; or the only marked symptom may for a time be an abundant discharge of mucus, suggestive of dysenteiy or obstinate diarrlura. As suppuration becomes more established, the evening temperature keeps high, night-SAveats occur, and the symptoms generally are more like those of the acute form. Pain and irritative fever may be severe, redness and oedema of the overlying skin are noticed, and gaseous crepitation in the underlying tissues may lie detected—as in a case lately under my oAvn care, in Avhich an abscess pointed above Poupart’s ligament, Avas very crepitant, and Avhen opened gave exit to most stinking pus, and in Avhich a drainage tube could be passed far imvards to the pelvis ; oedema of the scrotum Avas also a very noticealfle feature in this case. There is often more or less disturbance of the viscera in the immediate Adcinity of the disease; so that retro-peritoneal inflammation resembles dis- ease of the organs Avithin the jieritoneal cavity Avhich sympathize in the external inflammation. Thus Ave find that suppuration around the creeuni, or the sigmoid flexure, simulates inflammation of those parts; constipation and distension arise from suppuration around the ascending or descending colon; indigestion, flatulence, or gastrorrhma and acute dilatatioid of the stomach, may be caused by an abscess behind the duodenum; pleurisy or }ileuro-pneumonia may be caused by an abscess beloAV the diaphragm, or about the up[)er part of the kidney, liver, or spleen ; jaundice may appear, and abscess of the liver be suspected, from sup[)uration behind the liver; and empyema, hydatids, disease of the spleen or gall-bladder, renal or spinal aflections, ovarian or uterine disease, may, according to the part of the retro- peritoneal connective tissue most involved, be simulated by or mistaken for suppuration outside the peritoneum. Occasionally, a large abscess cavity is ' C. Hilton Fagge, Guy’s llosp. Reports, 3d series, vol. xviii. p. 4.