INJURIES OE THE EYEBALL. 201 1 once treated a woman whose eye was put out by a pin. She was beating carpet, and the pin struck the eye with such force as to penetrate deeply through the cornea, iris, and lens. She suffered for many months, but recovered with a blind eye, the good eye never having seriously sympathized with it. On December 31, 1881, a man was struck in the face by a bramble bush. He suf- fered repeated attacks of inflammation, the sight growing more and more cloudy, till July, 1882, when I saw him. There was a scar near the upper edge of the cornea, and a slight synechia anterior. I saw a piece of brier in the iris, and removed it by iridectomy with the portion of iris in which it rested. The other eye was hopelessly blind from previous disease, but the eye which was operated on recovered. Tliorns of black locust, honey locust, etc., often destroy the eye, especially when a piece breaks off and remains. AV^ounds of a contused and lacerated character are nearly always disastrous to sight, and often lead to grave complications, involving tlie sight of the remaining eye, and even danger to life. Of course, the risks are greatly en- hanced h"y the penetration and lodgment of the wounding body, or of some- thing else that may l)e carried in with it. Intra-ocular hemorrhage and inffammatory disoi-ganization from panophthalmitis, with its violent and pro- tracted sutfei'ings, are almost sure to follow, in any event. In all such fatal accidents to sjght, if the eye would eventually heal and remain inoffensive, it would he a happy issue; hut prolonged suffering and syippathetic danger to the fellow-eye are always to he apprehended. Ruptures of the eyehall from blunt force take p)lace in the sclera, a short dis- tance hack of and parallel to the base of tlie cornea. Simjde rupture of the cornea is extremely rare. In ruptures of the sclera, the jdelding conjunctiva generally escapes, while the lens is often didven through the rent and lodged under the mucous membrane. In that case, a large, round elevation, formed by the lens, whose color, perliaps, may p»artly l)e seen through the distended and semi-trans})arent conjunctiva, will indicate what has happened. I have repeatedly incised the conjunctiva and renioved the lens after this accident, with preservation of even useful vision. Patients recover Avith vciy little suffering in these cases, aiul the rupture is not often the cause of sympatlietic loss of the sound eye. Penetrating A¥ounhs of the Eye.—A rpiestion of great importance, in all cases of eye-wound, is whether or not the offending body has entered the eye- hall. To determine this, is by no means easy in very many cases. If the wound is large and deep, the immediate, partial or complete collapse of the globe, and the escape of a portion of its peculiar contents, reveal at once to the most ignorant, or even careless, the nature of the injury. But if the injuring body is small and propelled with great force, it may penetrate tleeply into the eye with a scarcely perceptible wound, and almost Avithoi;t pain. The patient himself feels sure that it could not have gone into his eye, for he hardly felt it, and he often misleads his pliysician. It is well known to surgeons of experience that a small particle dying with great force, and lodging deeply in the eye, hurts much less than one moving slowly and lodging on the eye or under the lid. Besides, the pain is much greater for hoiu’s, and even days and weeks, afterwards, in the latter ease than in the former. It frequently happens that a foreign body of minute size penetrates the eye, producing, sooner or later, cataract, or other serious trouble, and that the patient cannot remember when, where, or how the accident occurred, so little did it attra’ct his attention at the fatal moment. This should warn us always to make a most minute and critical examination of the eye when the circumstances prove such an occurrence possible. For instance, a slight sting is felt in the