CONTUSIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL PARIETES. 859 and firmly bound down, they may give the sensation of a hard, rounded tumor. The pain in these cases often takes the course of some one of the abdominal nerves, and may be quite superficial, and of a constant, fixed, aching character, rather than severe. The patient will probably continue to go about his business, the febrile and constitutional disturbance will be slight, the cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues will be unatfected, and the introduc- tion of a grooved or aspiratory needle, even three or four weeks after the detection of the “ lump,” may not be followed by the escape of anything but a drop or two of blood. By degrees, however, the pain becomes more severe as the softening of the infiammatory products progresses, and an obscure sense of deep fluctuation may Ije felt; an exploratory incision Avill now reveal the existence of pus, perhaps of a very fetid odor from proximity to the bmvel. Immediate relief will follow the evacuation of the pus, and convalescence, as a rule, becomes quite established; but in some cases an exhaustive discharge continues, the appetite fails, the strength completely gives ivay, bed-sores form, hectic supervenes, and the patient dies at some period from a few v^eeks to a few months from the onset. Beep-seated abscesses, whether idiopathic or the result of contusion or Avound of the abdominal Avails, are liable to be followed in the course of time by hernial protrusion at the seat atfected. The accompanying Fig- 1H3. wood-cut (Fig. 1113) shoAvs a hernial tumor folloAving an ilio- psoas abscess, Avhich had bur- roAved up and opened at the in- guinal region, ilearly the Avhole of the liolloAV viscera Avere con- tained in the hernia, and reduc- tion of any part of it some years after its first formation was quite impossible. In another case, that of a retired soldier, a large, fiat, tympanitic, doughy swelling in the epigastric and right liypo- chondriac regions folloAved an ab- scess, the result of a wound of the abdominal Avail. In this case the hernia, though large, Avas not pendulous, and could be retained Avithin the abdomen by a Avell- fitting lielt. Diagnosis.—-It is often diffi- cult, indeed impossible, to diag- nose abscess of the alidominal parietes in its early stage. This arises in part from tbe fact that, in every region of the abdomen, inflammation and suppuration of the walls are apt to simulate the same affections of tlie subjacent viscera. It is tliercfore necessary to bear in mind the normal posi- tion of the abdominal viscera, and to have a knoAvledge of the various soi-ts of SAvellings Avhich Irreducible, ilio-inguinal hernia, following ilio-psoas abscess in a ■woman. Band.? of linn, fibrous adhesions could be clearly seen and plainly felt through the very thin and overstretched integuments.