INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 342 area of dead bone to increase. In cases belonging to this second group of mastoid affections, this progressive death and ulceration of the bone are for- tunately somewhat more likely to follow an outward course toward the skin than an upward direction toward the brain, or a backAvard one toAvard the lateral sinus. In this Avay a spontaneous cure has often taken place, the pus finding an outlet through a carious channel in the outer part of the mas- toid bone. I have said that such a favorable issue is someAvhat more likely to take place than the fatal one Avhich is sure to folloAv ulceration either toAvard the lateral sinus or toAvard the brain, but I base my statement simply on an impression, and consequently I may easily be in error Avith regard to this point; and it is at least certain that the fatal cases belonging to this second group are numerous enough to Avarn us against trusting very much to the chances of spontaneous cure. The symptomatology of this form of mastoid disease is at first precisely the same as that of an ordinary, acute, purulent inflammation of the middle ear. The pain, however, shows a marked tendency to persist, even Avhen active meas- ures are adopted for the purpose of alleviating it, and is apt gradually to in- voIa'c thd entire side of the head. Usually there is a moderate elevation of the body-ternperature, though I have knoAvn even this symptom to be lacking. In a boy of eighteen, I once noted, just before establishing an artificial open- ing in the mastoid bone, a temperature of 105° Fahr. This is the highest temperature that I have e\'er observed in a case of acute inflammation of the ear. It fell to 99° F. soon after the operation. Redness, tenderness, and Fig. 902. Henle’s diagram showing relations of all parts of the temporal bone to each other. 1, Various cavities consti- tuting the labyrinth ; 2, External auditory canal; 2', Tympanum ; 2", Pharyngeal mouth of the Eustachian tube. 3 A’ault of pharynx. 4, Cartilaginous framework of auricle. 5, Inner cartilaginous lip of orifice of Eustachian tube; 5'Cartilaginous plate at tympanic orifice of Eustachian tube. 6, Pterygoid process of sphenoid bone. 7, Mastoid cells. 8, Glenoid fossa of temporal hone. * Memhrana tympani. Am a, Mastoid antrum. Cc a, Carotid canal. M a i, Meatus auditorius internus. 0, Basilar process of occipital bone. S, Sphenoid hone. T, Temporal hone. Z, Zygoma. SAvelliug of the skin covering the mastoid process, indicate the existence of a mastoid periostitis; and the development of a mastoid periostitis, in the progress of an undoubted acute inflammation of the middle ear, admits of only one interpretation, viz., it indicates the existence of an infiammation of