DISEASES OF THE MASTOID PROCESS. 339 bony septa are sometimes found in recent abscesses of the mastoid process. In favorable cases, the pus may burrow a way for itself along one of the emissary canals, and pour its contents into the space between the outer surface of the bone and the periosteum, and through the latter into the cellular tissues behind the ear; or it may travel dowmvard and develop an abscess in the soft parts below the mastoid process, between the skin and the muscles of the neck. In a third series of cases, the pus may work for itself a channel through the mass of bone which separates the floor and anterior jiart of the antrum from the upper and posterior wall of the auditory canal. Finally, it the resistance in these directions be too great, or if the channels of communication between the antrum and the intra-cranial cavity be unusu- ally free, pus will And its way to the latter region, and will induce either a diffuse meningitis or an abscess in the very substance of the brain. It is possible, also, that in recent cases a carious process may be set up in that part of the bone which lies next to the groove for the lateral sinus, and that ulceration of this vein, with accompanying phlebitis, pyfemia, etc., may result therefrom. This issue, however, is to be looked for rather in olironic cases, in which the main portion of the pneumatic cells has been obliterated by sclerosis. If a severe inflammation of the middle ear goes on unchecked, in an indi- vidual whose previous aural history points to the frec|uent occurrence or prolonged continuance of a discharge from this region, we may assume, with considerable confidence, that the majority of the pneumatic cells have become obliterated through a pi-ocess of sclerosis. It will be seen at once that in such an ear the chances of a spontaneous cure are seriously diminished. When the antrum, in such a case, takes on a more acute type of inflammation, and when at the same time its natural outlet becomes obstructed or closed, the confined pus can no longer burrow a way for itself outward through the thick mass of ivory-like bone. The bony roof of the antrum is then likely to become carious, and the pus finds an outlet in this dangerous direction. Or the mass of bone which separates the antrum from the lateral sinus, and which, I believe, is largely composed of diploetic spaces, breaks down under the effects of caries, and then the fatal issue is not long delayed. In addition to these destructive forms of inflammation of the mastoid process, there is one which partakes rather of the nature of hypernutrition of the bone. To this form, which leads to the condition known as sclerosis of the mastoid cells^ we shall give the name of coiuknsivg osteitis of the mastoid process. This ty[)e of mastoid inflammation lias now been accepted, thanks chiefly to the writings of Dr. J. Orne Green, of Boston, as a fairly distinct disease, characterized by certain well-marked symptoms, and requiring, for the relief of the most prominent of these, a particular therapeutic procedure. A chronic hypertemia of the mucous membrane lining the jineuraatic cells, and also of the vascular connective tissue that fills tlie diploetic spaces, un- doubtedly constitutes the essence of this osteitis. A chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the tympanum proper, and of the antrum, furnishes the provocation for this hy])eriemia. Increase in the amount of bone follows this chronic hyperiernia, and in the course of time this increase may ev.en go so far as to obliterate the [meumatic spaces entirely. The constantly increas- ing pressure exerted upon the mucous membrane lining these sjiaces, explains the severe pain experienced by patients who are affected with this disease. A periostitis of the mastoid process is always, I lielicve, to lie interpreted as the result of direct violence (a blow or a fall), or as an extension of an inflammation, located either in the external auditory canal or in the mastoid cells. I have never seen anything that I could consider as a primary, idio-