INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1108 A man under my care in tlie Middlesex Hospital, with a movable cancerous mass in the pyloric region, consented to the operation of pylorectomy ; his strength and general as well as local condition seemed favorable, and all the final preparations for tlie opera- tion had been made, when some increased distinctness of the superficial veins of the abdomen, and some slight tumidity in the lumbar regions of the abdominal cavity, as he lay on his back, suggested the advisability of watching and waiting for a day or two. Within a week the whole abdomen was distended with ascitic fluid, the surface veins were greatly enlarged, and the lower limbs oedematous. The patient lingered on several weeks, and died with abundant secondary cancer. It is needless to speculate upon wdiat might have been the result of the operation had it been attempted in this case. When it has been decided that tlie case is one fitted for interference, the patient is to he prepared by liaving the stoinacli well washed out, and, if the stomach has become much dilated, the -washing out ought also to be repeated on the day preceding the operation. The abdominal parietes should be divided, and the peritoneal cavity opened, by an incision four or five inches in length. This may be made in one of three ways: (1) Parallel to the right costal margin (Wblfier); (2) transversely over the most prominent part of the tumor (Billroth and Wblfier), though if this have sunk down very low in the abdomen—as when the pylorus is non-adherent and weighty it will do, even reaching the level of the symphysis puliis—the tumor must be raised before the incision is made over it; (3) longitudinally^ in the linea alba (Pean), ora little to the right of it (Rydygier). Sometimes the transverse and longitu- dinal incisions have been combined before the growth has become accessible, as in Dr. C. Max Richter’s case,* in which nearly the whole of the lesser cur- vature was infiltrated ; the transverse incision was five inches long, and about one inch above tlie umbilicus, while the longitudinal incision was made upwards fi’om tlie transverse, along the median line to the xiphoid cartilage. Before the peritoneum is incised, all bleeding points should be secured by torsion or ligature. In the transverse and oblicpie incisions the hemorrhage from the parietes may be somewdiat excessive, and eight or twelve vessels may require to be controlled. Billroth, however, says that Mickulicz considers the transverse incision the best, as it gives more room than an incision along the linea allia, and heals equally as well. The relation of the disease to the surrounding parts is to be made out as soon as the peritoneum is opened, and this is to be done either by introducing tbe fingers and feeling round the mass, or by withdrawing the mass, when possible, through the external ivound. If the growth has invaded, or is adherent to, tlie pancreas, liver, or transverse colon; if the lymphatic glands in the neighboi’hood are widely involved ; or if the cancer extends to the second portion of the duodenum, or over the whole or greater part of one of tlie curvatures of the stomach, the operation should be abandoned, and the pailetal wound should bo closed. If tlie abdominal walls are invaded by the disease, the operation may be com- pleted, though with difficulty. If the operation is proceeded with, the next step is to detach the stomach from the greater and lesser omenta, and for this purpose the stomach is drawn up^into the wound, and its walls carefully examined to ascertain at what point they should be cut through. The division of the omenta should then be made step by step, between two pairs of pressure-forceps, ligaturing the cut ends before removing the forceps ; or double ligatures maybe passed with an aneurism-needle at short intervals through the portions of the omenta to be divided, and tbe section made after the ligatures are tightened. Some- times the thenno-cautery has been employed to divide these structures, but there is no advantage in its use. If any glands are infiltrated, they should be ' Am. Jour. Med. Sciences, 1882.