BRONCnOTOMY; LARYNGOTOMY, TRACHEOTOMY, ETC. 721 of the tube it is well to run a catheter into it, so that the blunt end shall serve as a pilot. The tubes used bj myself, an improvement upon those of Ivrishaber,^ are provided with a metallic catheter-conductor, the external extremity of which—the handle—curves downward, and gives exit in that direction to any blood or mucus whicli may be ejected by cough on its intro- duction. (Fig. 1066.) When the tube is in position, the pilot is withdrawn and replaced by the ordinary inner canula. A silver tube is preferable to one of hard rubber, because it encroaches less upon the space for air, and because by tarnishing it will indicate at what point, if at any, mortification has taken place. Tubes should not be used for long periods without occasional careful inspection, as they are liable to corrosion, and may then drop into the air-passage. The tube should be of erpial calibre throughout. When smaller at the inner extremity, as are most of the tubes in use, the patient will get much less air than he is supposed to do, judging from the size of the external orifice. The tube in general use has the form of the quadrant of a circle, which admits of the easy introduction of an inner tube ; and the distal extremity is bevelled otf so that it shall look downward instead of forward, and thus l^e much less likely to strike upon the anterior wall of the trachea. Much has been written about the shape of the tube. In the tracheotomies performed l)y myself, the quarter-circle tubes have been used almost invariabljq and there has been no case of ulceration of the trachea to dejilore. When evidences of abrasion have occurred, as noted by bloody stains upon the tube, the position of this can be altered by placing a compress underneath the neck-plate, tlius relieving the tracheal wall from attrition. It is well to provi<le the patient with an additional tube, considerably shorter than the other, and to use the two on alternate days, so as to give the points of pressure alternate days of freedom. It has been a matter of observation that the track of the artificial passage through the soft tissues often becomes oblique in such a direction as to maintain the terminal extremity of a quarter-circle tul>e in the centre of the trachea. The calibre of the tube should be as great as is consistent with Fig. 1067. Fig. 1068. Durham’s trachootomy tube and inner canula, its easy introduction without touching the walls of the windpipe: six, eight, ten, and twelve millimetres in diameter, respectively, will, save in rare, exceptiotial instances, meet the requirements from infancy to maturity. Its length should be sufficient to insure it from being coughed out of the aperture ' Amiales des Maladies de I’Oreille, du Larynx, etc., Juillet, 1878, p. 142. VOL. V.—46