631 WOUNDS OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. some instances the hyoid bone and the tongue are severed from the larynx ; and the upper fragment of a still attached epiglottis may be seen in the upper segment of the wound, and its intra-thyroidal portion in the lower. The gap- ing in these wounds is very great. The extent to which the pharynx is severed may comprise its entire circumference, the knife penetrating a verte- bra.' In a case seen by myself in the hospital practice of Dr. R. J. Levis, of Philadelphia, less than half an inch of the posterior pharyngeal wall had escaped division. Cuts tlirough the thyroid cartilage may wound the vocal bands. They seldom penetrate the entire cartilage. Sometimes they fail to reach the mucous membrane, so that the air-passage is not opened at all. Cuts through tlie crico-thyroid membrane may sever the larynx completelyCricoid car- tilage^ and pharynx may be injured likewise. Sometimes one or both supra- arytenoid cartilages, or even the arytenoid cartilages, are severed or wounded. Tlie crico-tracheal membrane is very rarely the seat of the wound. The resistance being slight, wounds here generally sever the trachea from the larynx. That the larynx is wounded more frequently than the trachea, seems to be the individual opinion of surgeons as drawn from personal observations, nevertheless, a systematic compilation by SabatieP gives the trachea as the seat of injury in 22 instances out of 45, or practically in one-half the cases, the crico-thyroid membrane having been sevei’ed in 13 and the thyroid car- tilage in 10. Durham® gives the trachea as the seat in 41 out of 158 unse- lected cases of penetration of the air-passages, the situation of the wound hav- ing been above the hyoid bone in 11 cases, through the hyo-thyroid membrane in 45, through the thyroid cartilage m 35, and through the crico-thyroid membrane in the remaining 26. According to Malgaigne,® the larynx is severed in young subjects only, and for the reason that they can throw their heads further hack than old persons, in whom the suicidal injury is consequently more frequent in the trachea. If this he the rule, it is not without many exceptions ; for wounds through the thyro-hyoid membrane at least are not uncommon in aged subjects. When the epiglottis, or a portion of the arytenoid or su[»ra-arytenoid cartilage, has been severed, there is liability to impaction of the fragment between the vocal bands or above them; an accident that may take place within a brief interval,^ or not until after some hours or a few days. Suifo- cation may ensue in such instances.® Hence any movable fragment which might induce such an accident should be promptly excised, for "it can rarely be safely secured for any length of time by stitching. If the suicide has made several cuts in his neck, as showui by a jagged wound of the integument, portions of the cartilages may have been liacked into a number of pieces, some of which may hang "loosely. Under such circum- stances it becomes still more imperative to remove all fragments. The immediate danger of death by sutfocation from hemorrhage into the air- passage, or from occlusion by blood-clots, is much greater in mvdtiple Avounds of this sort, than in wounds by a single stroke. The like danger is greater in wounds of the trachea than in wounds of the larynx, because of simul- taneous severance of thyroidal vessels or of the thyroid body. * Fischer, Pitha uiid Billroth’s Handbuch, Bd. ill. 1 Ahth. 3 Lief. S. 101. 2 Ilemien, Principles of Military Surgery, 3d ed. p. 3G8. Loudon, 1829; Gross’s System of Surgery, 6th ed. vol. ii. pp. 31.5 and 316. Philadelphia, 1883. 3 Stokes, cpioted by Gross (op. cit., vol. ii. p. 315). Horteloup, op. cit., p. 16. 5 Holmes, op. cit., vol. i. p. 687. s lInrtelou]>, op. cit., j). 17. ’ Houston, Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. v. page 315 ; cited by Ryland, Durliam, and others. ** See cases narrated by Sir Chas. Bell (Surgical Observations, vo'l. i. p. 44). Dr. Win. Stokes, and Prof. S. D. Gross (op. cit., vol. ii. p. 315).