200 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. naturally fall to tlie bottom of the chamber and soon create violent reaction. The difficulties and dangers of removal would be then greatly increased. In every case where such an accident is imminent, thorough anaesthesia is neces- sary. The spring speculum and fixation forceps must be applied so as to secure the greatest accuracy in the use of instruments. A narrow, very sharp, spear knife, bent on the fiat, must be passed through the cornea a little to one side of the ottending body, and pushed carefully through the chamber till well behind it. Then by depressing the handle, the blade, with its flat surface, is brought firmly against the cornea, and the possible entrance of the foreign body into the chamber is blocked. While one hand thus carefully holds the foreign body, the other picks or prizes it out with a broad needle. The fixation forceps, at this stage at least, must be held by an assistant. IsTo operation on the eye demands greater coolness and skill than the manoeuvre described. Should the acpieous humor escape before the object is attained, the surgeon must desist and wait for its reaccumulation. The length of time that a foreign body may remain buried in the cornea, undiscovered, is illustrated by a case in which a piece of wheat-beard was removed after two and a half years:— A farmer, in September, 1866, while feeding a threshing machine, felt something strike the left eye. Severe inflammation followed, and he was kept in a dark room for two months. The eye then grew gradually more comfortable, so that he could work, but remained delicate, till in March, 1869, when severe suffering again set in. I saw him on April 29. There was vivid ciliary injection, and intense intolerance to light. A dark, grayish speck was seen in the centre of the cornea. By oblique illumi- nation, a distinct projection from the corneal surface w'as detected. This was readily removed by a spud, and at the same instant the aqueous humor escaped. On exami-. nation, the substance removed proved to be a short piece of wheat-beard which had punctured the cornea, and which after that long period had worked to the free surface. Accidental Wounds of the Eyeball.—These may be, (1) Incised, when inflicted l)y the blade of a knife, scissors, piece of glass, or any other sharp substance; (2) Punctured, as when caused by a pin, needle, thorn, or sharp, round instrument, such as the tine of a fork; (3) Mixed wounds, of a contused and lacerated character; and (4) Ruptures of the strong supporting tunic, generally of the sclera, by blunt force, such as the blow inflicted by a wind- lass, the horn of a cow, the fist, a ball, or a small stone. Incised wounds^ if clean, sharp, and not deep enough to open the eyeball, are not serious, and soon heal by simple rest with the eyes closed. Even when passing through the cornea or sclera, and of considei’able length, if no prolapsus of the iris or ciliary body occurs, and if no deep-seated organ, such as the lens, is injured, they soon recover with the same treatment. If, however, the anterior chamber is opened, even by a small wound, the sudden loss of aqueous is very apt to wash the iris into the open cut, producing prolapsus. This is easily recognized by the little, round, dark prominence at the seat of the cut, looking something like the head of a house-fly. With that, the pupil will be more or less eccentric and altered in shape. It will be pear-shaped, with the small end at or towards the wound in the cornea or the selero-cor- neal junction. If the vitreous cavity is opened, prolapsus of more or less of that fluid will be likely to show itself. Even here, if the cutting body has not pene- trated very deeply, and if no great loss of vitreous has taken place, with intra-ocnlar hemorrhage, the wound may heal with little injuiy to sight. Panctured Wounds.—Wounds by a pin, needle, thorn, or sting of a bee, if deep, are extremely dangerous to sight, and are liable to be followed by dis- astrous inflammation, even of the uninjured eye.