INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE EAR. 292 centimetres is that which is hest adapted to all the ordinary purposes of the aural surgeon. If the mirror be held in the hand, it is probably better to [)lace the eye in the focal line, that is, to look through the small central aperture with which these mirrors are usually provided. If the instrument, however, be worn on the head, the mirror should be brought down so as to rest on the bridge of the nose, or in close proximity to it, and the physician should look into the ear over the u})per edge of the mirror. Here, again, it will be found that the forehead-mirrors kept for sale in the instrument makers’ shops, are not constructed with a view to their being employed in this fashion, the space left between the upper edge of the mirror and the forehead-plate being almost invariably too narrow. They are also, as a rule, defective in another respect, viz., that the ball-and-socket joint, by which the mirror is attached to the forehead-plate, allows the former to be rotated to such a limited extent, both from side to side and from before backward, that the observer will often find himself unable to use the source of light which may happen to be available, unless he changes its position, or that of the patient, or both. This joint should have the greatest freedom of motion possible, for then oidy Avill the physician readily be able to utilize almost any source of light that hemay find at hand. The accompanying cuts (Figs. 883, 884) show the details of construction so well, that I may omit any further S'ig. 883, Fig. 884. Forehead-mirror. (Half the natural size.) Forehead-mirror. Profile view. description of this instrument, which I consider to be a thoroughly service- able type of forehead mirror. As represented in the cuts, this mirror is essentially the same as that first devised by I)r. Robert F. ’Weir, of this city, in 1869 or 1870. At that time the forehead-plates were usually made of hard rubbei', but now the best are made of metal, with an outer plating of nickel. There should be no padding, and the flexible band attached to the plate should not be made of any dyed material, as the moisture of the temples is apt to make the dye run. As far as the actual examination of the auditory canal and drum-membrane is concerned, I shall mention only the points which are of the most import- ance. Among the readily available sources of light for illuminating the deeper parts "of the ear, the best is the broad flame of a burning gas-jet