RETRO-PERITONEAL EXTRAVASATION AND SUPPURATION. 953 discharged or evacuated through an incision, recovery ensues, unless hlood- poisonins:, hectic, or exliaustion carries otf the patient. Sometimes the mat- ter burrows tar and wide between the muscles of the abdominal wall, or along the psoas and iliacus to the groin, or out through one of the fora- mina of the pelvis ; or it may spread upwards to the diaphragm, or above it to the pleural or pericardial cavity; or between the great vessels in front of the spine and the prevertebral plexuses and cords of tlie sympathetic; or inwards to one or other of the hollow viscera; or through the peritoneum into the cavity of the abdomen or pelvis. An abscess in the pelvis may discharge into the rectum, vagina, or bladder, and be tollowed by recovery; or death may ensue from extensive and complicated burrowing and its con- sequences. A case was under the care of Dr. Coupland, in the ^Middlesex Hos- pital, in winch, at the post-mortem examination, extensive suppuration was found in the pelvis, having been started by indammation of the ovary; and the matter having burrowed beneath the peritoneum, ulcerated into the rectum and also into the bladder; it had also spread along the psoas, and discharged in the groin, and again had burst into tiie bowel at a iiigher point. Sup- puration about the kidney may burst into the colon, pelvis of kidney, or peri- toneum, or may take one of many directions. Thiersch had a case of perine- phric suppuration, which by extension in one direction had caused empyema, and in the other a sinus on the front of the thigh. When the iliac region is chiefly affected, recoveiy may ensue after rupture into the ca?cum or sigmoid tiexure, or death after the matter has burst into the peritoneum. In cases in which suppuration has originated in disease of the vertebral column, the pus may open into both the colon and lung, so that it is both ex[)ectorated and voided with the feces. Even such cases are not always fatal, but recovery may ensue after a tedious convalescence, either with or without the establish- ment of a fistula. Treatment.—When infiammation or suppuration is known to exist, the treatment is, fortunately, quite clear, even though for a time a precise diag- nosis as to the exact structures affected is impossible. Rest, leeches, warm sedative applications, attention to the digestive organs, the avoidance of sources of irritation to the bowels and kidneys, and of all unnecessary action or straining of the abdominal muscles, are necessary in the early inflammatory stages, whether the disease be external or internal to the peritoneum. When suppuration has taken place*, the sooner a free vent is made for the discharge the better. There should be no delay in evacuating and freely draining a retro-peritoneal abscess, from whatever cause it has originated, or wherever it may lie situated, more especially if the constitution is suffering from the pent-up matter. In all eases the pus should be let out through an external opening, if possilde; but wlien it is distinctly pointing towards the rectum or vagina, no hesitation should be felt in making an opening through their walls. In very many cases the pus can be withdrawn through an asi>irator. This instrument may have to be used again and again, at inten'als of days or weeks, and ultimately a cure may result; or it may fail, and a cure will only be obtained by a free opening. I have had successful results with the aspi- rator in psoas abscess, after three and four aspirations, and I know of one case which was permanently cured after seventeen aspirations, lasting over a period of eighteen months. If the aspirating needle gets blocked with flakes of lym|)h or pus, it has been recommended to inject through it a drachm or two of tincture of eucalyptus, which is to lie left in the abscess for a few days. It is stated that the flaky matter, by the solvent action of the eucalyptus, be- comes fluid, and can then be easily withdrawn through the needle. In a large number of pelvic and iliac abscesses, an incision above Roupart’s ligament, followed by free drainage, will bring about a cure ; and lumbar abscess heals