INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 884 Mr. John Freeland' (Government Medical Officer Antigua, West Indies) records the case of a black woman, aged sixty-five, who tor many years had been troubled with intermittent fever, followed by a regular train of symptoms commencing with vomiting, colicky pains, and tenderness of the abdomen, and ending with jaundice, more or less severe. In one attack, in addition to the above symptoms, she was seized with excru- ciating pain in the stomach and chest, inability to retain anything swallowed, hot and dry skin, hurried pulse, tender abdomen, and death from collapse in about five days—after increased abdominal pain, tenderness and vomiting, and rapidity and failure of pulse. At the autopsy, the abdomen was found literally filled with blood and bile ; the intestines were gangrenous in spots; the peritoneum everywhere inflamed, and with adhesions ; the liver and gall-bladder healthy, the latter empty and smaller than normal; the spleen stained indelibly throughout with bile ; the hepatic duct recently ruptured ; the calibre of the duct much smaller, and its length greater than usual. In some j)laces the duct was pouched, and the pouches contained gall-stones of size varying from that of a pea to that of a strawberry. In one of these pouches was a large slit, with firm edges, and com- pletely plugged by the accurately-fitting end of a biliary calculus, which by pressure had caused the ulceration. The second or recent rupture was the cause of death ; the older one had existed for years, and had always been occupied and closed by the gall- stone, except occasionally when some exertion displaced it temporarily and allowed the bile to escape. These occasional extravasations led to the intermittent attacks; the final and most severe one was set up by the recent rupture. Rupture of the smaller biliary canals, followed by extravasation of bile into the liver, repeatedly occurs in cases of retention of bile; and extravasa- tion of bile from the same canals follows laceration of the liver, whether the ])eritoneal coat be torn or not; but the signiticance of the extravasation of l)ile in these cases is submerged in that of the general injury of the liver. Rupture of the gall-bladder, or of the biliary ducts beyond the liver-sub- stance, is apt to be followed by speedy death from peritonitis, owing to the escape of large cpiantities of bile into the cavity of the ])eritoneum. From ex})eriments on animals, as Avell as from what is occasionally seen after acci- dent or ojieration in man, the fatal termination is probably brought about, not so much by the sudden escape of bile into the peritoneum, as by the continual pouring out of fresh quantities into the peritoneal sac. There are a few cases on record which prove that, if the continued escape of bile into the general cavity of the peritoneum be ju’evented, recovery from rupture of tbe gall-bladder or of a large bile-duct may take place. l*rovided that the etfusion of bile is at first slow, so that there is time for adhesions to form a cyst-like chandler, shut otf from the general })eritoneal cavity, large quan- tities, even two or three gallons, of bilious fluid may accumulate outside tbe biliary passages and form a large tumor in the right hypochondrium, ]tushing upthe diaphragm and lung,and causing a })rominence of the anterior abdominal ])arietes, over the region of the liver. Such was the condition in Skeete’s,^ Fryer’s,^ and Barlow’s^ cases, the latter two of which ended in recovery. In each of these cases repeated tappings, at intervals of about ten days, led to the withdrawal of as many as six or seven quails of fluid. The fluid removed in Mr. Barlow’s case Avas examined by Dr. Owen Rees and Mr.Tbonias Taylor, and Avas found to be “full of bile.” Dr. Rees estimated that it contained eight-tenths of bile and tAVO-tenths of foreign matter. For a time after the accident, the feces in Fryer’s and BarloAv’s cases Avere Avhite, but as soon as bile began again to pass by tbe boAvel tbe cysts ceased to refill, and the patients returned to a state of perfect health. ' Lancet, May 6, 1882, p. 731. 2 London Medical Journal, vol. vi. p. 274. 178.7. 3 A Case of Extravasation of Bile into tire Cavity of the Abdomen. Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. iv. p. 330. Ibid., vol. xxvii. p. 378.