CHRONIC HYDROCEPHALUS. 165 or coma, or convulsions, or even acute cerebral mischief. Some cliilclren survive a few years, and some may even attain adult age, but such cases are very rare. In these instances the skull becomes in time solidified by the growth of new centres of ossification in the membranous parts, and liy the increase also of the existing bones of the vault. The fluid ceases to increase, but it is doubtful if is ever reabsorbed except under most unusual circum- stances. External Hydrocephalus.—This condition is referred to three causes d (1) to escape of fluid from ventricular dropsy; (2) to congenital atrophy of the brain ; (3) to hemorrhage into the arachnoid sac. Apart from the absence of alteration in the base of the skull, it is doubtful if there are any absolute signs_ whereby an independent, external hydrocephalus may be diagnosed from the more common form of the disease. All the remarks, moreover, made upon this latter affection may be considered as also applicable to the form now under notice. Legendre^ distinguishes the form due to hemorrhage by the facts that it is never congenital, that the head does not attain the size com- monly seen in internal hydrocephalus, and that it is always preceded by con- vulsions, or other evidences of cerebral disturbance. Treatment of Hydrocephalus.—With the general treatment of hydroceph- alus the present aidicle has no concern. The local treatment that has been proposed in certain cases consists (1) in the application of pressure, and (2) in pai’acentesis. Pressure to the skull is maintained by means of strapping, or by an elas- tic bandage, the latter being the most suitable appliance. This treatment is applicable to nearly all those cases that are not absolutely hopeless, and that do not show evidence of a rapidly fatal termination. It can be regarded merely a-s a palliative measure, and may no doubt restrain the increase of the dropsy, at least for a while. The results of the treatment have been unsatisfactory, and for the most part negative. If it has done no good, it has at least done no harm, if exception be made of a few cases in which too vigorous pressure has induced symptoms of compression of the brain, and, in a case of Trousseau’s, even death. The best mode of applying compression by means of plaster, is that advised by Trousseau, who gives the following directions. The plaster should be in strips one-third of an incli broad, and sliould be applied “ 1st, from each mastoid process to the outer part of the orbit of the opposite side; 2d, from the hair at the back of the neck, along the longitudinal suture, to the root of the nose; 3d, across the whole head, in such a manner that the difier- ent strips shall cross each other at the vertex ; 4th, a strip is cut long enough to go thrice around the head. Its first turn passes over the eyebrows, along the ears, and a little below the occipital protuberance, so that the ends of all the other strips shall project about oue-rpiarter incli below the circular strip. These ends are next to be doubled up on the circular strip, and its remaining two turns are then to be passed over them just in the same direction as the first turn.’'^ Paracentesis.—Much difference of opinion exists as to the value of this operation for the relief of chronic hydroceplialus, and it must be confessed that the results of paracentesis have so fai’ not been very satisfactory. Wcst^ collected fifty-six cases in which tapping had lieen performed, and out of this number he considered that cure had followed in only four instances. It ' West, Diseases of Infancy and Childhood, 8th ed., page 130. 1874. 2 Legendre, Recherclies Anat. Path., p. 135. Quoted hy West. 2 West, op. cit., page 133. * Medical Gazette, April, 1842.