1063 CYSTS OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA, should he adopted as has been recommended for other abdominal cysts. Splenectomy, unless obstinate suppuration occur, or hypertrophy of the organ complicate the cyst, as in Pean’s case, can seldom, if ever, be requisite or justiliable. Cysts of the Pancreas.—Though the pancreas is, rarely, the seat of a h^ulatid cyst, the common cause of,cysts in this organ are such as give rise to obstruction of the pancreatic duct. Calculous concretion in the duct, is by far the most frequent cause of cystic dilatation ; but any other obstacle to the free escape of the pancreatic secretion will produce the same result. Thus cancer of the duodenum, a gall-stone impacted at the lower end of the common bile- duct and pressing upon the orilice of the pancreatic duct, marked indu- ration of the pancreatic tissue, or peri-})ancreatic adhesions, especially those which tend to displace the pancreas, are possible causes of cystic formations. Pilatation of the ducts of the pancreas, whether sufficient to constitute a large cyst or not, is a very frequent result of the impaction of pancreatic calculi. Prom the analogy of these distension-cysts with the cysts of the salivary glands, Virchow has given them the name of “Ranula pancreatica,” Mr. Joshua Parsons made the same comparison in 1857, in his report of a case of pancreatic cyst which will be mentioned hereafter. As in the case of the ureter, the pancreatic duct, if the obstruction is complete and near its bowel-end, may become dilated throughout; and the accessory or branch ducts may present tlie appearance of diverticula opening into the duct of Wirsung, Prom local interstitial inllammation, or eatari'li of the lining membrane, or from a plug of mucus, one of the smaller ducts alone may be atfected, while the main duct remains pervious. The cysts of the pancreas vary much in size and form. In some cases, the cyst-wall is thick, tough, tibrous, cartilaginous, or even osseous: the inner surface may be smooth, or may present fatty, chalky, or albuminous changes like those seen in diseased arteries. In very large or old cysts the walls some- times suppurate. Py the pressure exercised by the cyst, the gland-tissue atrophies, or undergoes adipose transformation ; and the effects of pressure upon the surrounding structures are very various. “The portal vein, inferior cava, and splenic vein; the pylorus, duodenum, colon, gall-bladder, and biliary })assages; the stomach, liver, spleen, and right kidney; and, lastly, the solar plexus of nerves may be structurally involved or locally displaced, rendering diagnosis most difficult, and post-mortem examination most un- satisfactory.” So writes Dr. Jolmston, in an admirable article on Calculous Affections of the Pancreatic Ducts.* The contents of the cysts may be either altered pancreatic secretion, or nearly pure mucus, or a serous liuid; cholesterine, broken-down cells, pus, blood, and crystals of ha'matine have been found in a large number of cases. In Bozeman’s case, which will be again referred to, the fluid was of a light- brown color, specific gravity 1020, and of acid reaction, thus differing from the fluid of ordinary ovarian cysts, which is alkaline. Calculous concretions are sometimes formed in the cysts. Dr. Johnston lias forcibly pointed out that not only do calculi, by occluding the pancreatic duct, cause the forma- tion of retention-cysts, but that pancreatic cysts, however caused or formed, favor the occurrence of calculi. The capacity of the cysts varies from several drachms to ten or twenty ounces; in exceptional cases, very mucli more has been found. Bozeman sjieaks of two and a half gallons of fluid having been drawn off, in the case of his patient, and adds that the tumor, with the fluid, weighed twenfy and a half pounds. ' Amer. .Journal of the Medical Sciences, Oct. 1883, p. 418.