181 A>TATOMY OF THE EYE. by diplopia, or double vision. This is present no doul)t in the beginning of all cases of strabismus, and is the most harassing and persistent symptom of muscular paralysis. Eyelids and Lachrymal Apparatus.—That the movements of the eye may meet with the least possible resistance from friction, the anterior half of the globe and the inner surtace of the lids are lined by a smooth mucous mem- brane, constantly lubricated by its own secretions. To provide additional moisture, and keep the cornea constantly free from accumulations of the waste epithelium, the secretions of the lachrtjnud gland come into play. Tins gland lies in the pit near the upper and outer margin of the orbit, and pours its tluid through the excretory ducts on the eyeliall. The surplus tears find their way over the globe, and are finally carried into the nose by the tear passages, the canalicuir, the lachrymal sac, and the nasal duct. The conjunctiva extends from the free edges of the lids, where it is continuous with the skin, back througli the fornix to the globe, and thence forwards, over the sclera, to the margin of the cornea, the latter being covered by the continuous epithelium. It is divided, according to its distribution, into the tarsal portion; the reflected portion, or fornix; and the ocular portion that covers the sclera. The tarsal division is firmly united to the inner surfaces of the tarsi, above and below, and is dissected off with ditficulty. The reflected portion is more looscl}" united to the structures below, and readily becomes infiltrated by infiamniatory products collecting in, and especially underneath it. The ocular covering is very thin and transparent, and is also connected to the sclera very loosely. Inflamma- tory collections under it, so common and so alarming, are called cbemosis. At the margin of the cornea, the conjunctiva, blended with the capsule of Tenon, is firmly united to the sclera. Hence, to effectually fix the eye for surgical operations, it must be seized as close to the cornea as possible. The free, smooth, epitlielial covering of the conjunctiva, forms the surfaces that glide so easily and comfortably over each other in the movements of the eyes, and in winking. The conjunctiva, especially the strip lining the back portion of the tamus, next the fornix, is traversed l>y many deep fissures which communicate freely, and into which the epithelium dips, giving it an uneven ay)pearance. These fissures were formerly descrihed as papilla?. The con- junctiva is supplied with bloodvessels, and parts are infiltrated with lymph cells, capable of enormous increase, and causing great swelling and hyper- trophy in inflammation. It is likewise freely endowed witli sensibility by distributions of the fifth [lair. The diffei-ent kinds of glands that open on the conjunctiva, along the free margin of the lids, on the limbus conjunctivie, and in the fornix, properly belong to other structures of the lid. The eyduls are movable, complicated structures, opening and closing in re- sponse to muscles, like shutters. Into the framework of each, to give it stiff- ness, enters a condensed fibrous structure of semilunar sluqie, called the tarsus. The tarsus of tlie ujiper lid is longer and broader than that of the lower. The thick, sharp-cut edges of the lid, along the anterior lip of which the e^’e-lashes are implanted, and on the ])Osterior lip of which the. IMeibomian ducts are seen, is formed chiefly by the thick tarsus. Toward the ipiper edge, into which the levator palpebra? superioris is fastened, it grows (piite thin. Iml»edded in the thickness of the tarsus, perpendicular to its free margin, and belonging histo- logically to the skin, are tbe Meibomian glands, long tubes with acinous attach- ments, and opening in visible points along the inner li]> next the conjunc- tiva. (Fig. 855.) The ])oints in which the two lids unite are called commis- sures. The outer commissure is sharp, and the inner rounded out to receive the earuncula lachryrnalis of the conjunctiva, behind which is a vertical, thickened fold of conjunctiva called the plica semilunaris. At the inner com-