INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 330 An irritating discharge from the ear is very apt to induce furuncular inflam- mation. The condition may easily be recognized upon an examination vith the speculum and reflected light. The escape of pus from the middle ear under pressure, such as exists vdien a small perforation in the membrana tym})ani becomes blocked in any way, is a very common source of pain. After we have once verifled the existence of such an insuflicient or obstructed outlet, we can, bj" the aid of other symptoms and lesions, measure the extent of the harm that is being caused by the obstruction. Finally, decided pain of an obstinate character may be a very prominent symptom in chronic puru- lent inflammation of the middle ear, without the slightest trace of a condition of obstruction, or of active inflammation, of the visible portions of the middle ear. The pain, under these circumstances, is probably due to a chronic hypertrophic osteitis of the mastoid process. Farther on, I shall consider both of these classes of cases more fully. Tenderness on ■pressure may exist in the auditory canal, or at any point in the immediate vicinity of the ear. Tenderness in the meatus signifies either a localized, furuncular inflammation, or a diffuse periostitis of the canal. In the case of this latter condition, we must endeavor to distinguish between a mere superficial inflammation, due to the exposure of the parts to a constant flow over them of an irritating pus, and one that represents a direct extension of a more or less serious inflammation of the middle ear. Tenderness behind and above the ear, if developed in the course of a chronic purulent discharge from tlie meatus, always means one of two pathological processes; either an inflammation of the soft parts of the auditory canal has travelled outward along the canal to the parts behind and above the ear, or an inflammation involving the antrum and cellular structures of the mastoid process has spread along the mastoid emissary veins to the outer periosteum. A study of tlm condition of the auditory canal will usually enable us to determine correctly which of these two processes is the one at work in the case under considera- tion. In a large proportion of cases of chronic discharge from the ear, we may safely take it for granted that the discharge is kept up by a limited patch of hone-caries^ usually superficial in character, or by a mass or masses of granu- lation-tissue. The latter condition is by far the more common of the two, though the former is by no means rare. There is undoubtedly such a thing as a persistent and fairly active discharge without either of the above-named conditions, but I am convinced that such a state of tilings is comparatively un- common. Hence the necessity, if we desire to arrest the discharge, of making a most thorough and minute search for some hidden granulation-growth. In more than one case of obstinate discharge I have tried in vain to effect a cure. The perforation in the membrana tym})ani being small (a millimetre or a millimetre and a half in diameter), I have not been able to learn much, from actual exploration, about the condition of the middle ear. In a few of these cases I have had the good fortune, after the lapse of weeks or months, to‘dis- cover the existence of a small polypoid growth in the tympanic cavity. At first it was too small to come within my limited range of vision, but as the mass increased in size it Anally encroached upon tlie small field bordered by the edges of the perforation. The case then became quite clear, and the removal of the growth with the wire snare promptly put an end to the dis- charge. In some cases I have succeeded, by aid of the slender middle-ear probe, bent at a right angle near the tip, in bringing into a view a small polypoid growth, Avhich the moment before had been completely concealed from view. AYitli regard to bone-caries, I have veiy little to say that will be of practical value. My impression is, that I have found these patches or areas of bone-caries more often at the posterior end of the tympanum, just at