1059 CYSTS OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. * System of Surgery, 6th ed., vol. ii. p. 634. 1882. * Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xviii. Hawkins,* one is driven to the conclusion that most if not all those which were grouped by him as “ aqueous encysted tumors” of the liver, were in reality simple hydatid c^’sts, that is, hydatid cysts with aqueous contents, and no daughter-vesicles. It must be remembered that in 1833, when this paper was published, the exact anatomy of a hydatid cyst, and the chemical and microscopical characters of hydatid fluid, were not as well known as they are now. Prof. Gross^ removed from a delicate woman, aged twenty-three, nearly a gallon and a half of fluid as clear as spring water. ISlo recurrence followed. When an aqueous or simple serous cyst is not wholly inclosed by liver substance, but is projecting from its edge, or more or less pedunculated and hanging from its under surface,^ the distension of its walls may in time become so great as to lead to its rupture and to the discharge of its contents into the peritoneum ; or after the formation of adhesions the cyst may spon- taneously burst on the surface, or into a hollow viscus. Under certain cir- cumstances the lining membrane of these cysts is apt to inflame and suppu- rate, so that they become converted into abscesses. Treatment.—As soon as the cyst has attained to any uncomfortable size, or if there is any danger of its bursting into the jieritoneum, it should be punctured in the same way as a hydatid cyst; and if it quickly refllls it should he opened, and its edges should be stitched to the edges of the wound in the abdominal parietes. Wlien a serous cyst attains a large size, it is prone to form anterior adhesions which may he ditiicult to break down, or which may bleed or ooze freely after separation ; moreover, it cannot lie determined in advance whether the cyst is pedunculated or in large part imbedded in the liver. These are reasons for not attempting complete extirpation. If, however, laparotomy has been performed on a mistaken diagnosis, and the cyst is easily separable from its adhesions, and fairly well protruded from the liver, there is no reason why, after it has been evacuated, the hulk of the cyst should not lie cut away, and the remaining part stitched to the upper end of the abdominal wound. My colleague, IMr. Ilulke, has recorded a case of multiple dermoid cyst attached to the surface of the liver. It occurred in a woman who died of cancer of the uterus. Similar dermoid cysts were found connected with the True cystic disease of the liver, in which the whole organ is more or less studded with small, if not minute, cysts, is generally found associated with similar disease (cystic degeneration) of the kidney. This form of cystic dis- ease of tlie liver has no special surgical importance. Simple or Serous Cysts of the Kidney.—Distinct from that form of cystic distension of the whole organ which results from obstruction in the ureter, and which is commonly known as hydroneplirosis; distinct also from that rare form of disease in which the whole kidney is converted into a mass of con- glomerate cysts—some of which hold several ounces of fluid, the septa between which are mere relics of granular renal substance, and in which the cystic masses are eight or ten times the normal size of a kidney—and Avhich always proves fatal; and distinct, too, from the cysts of small or microscopic size met with in great nnmliers in the “■granular kidney,” there are simple cysts frequently seen in the kidneys of elderly people, one or more of which may attain considerable size, and so constitute a disease of great importance. In our museum at the Middlesex Hospital, are some beautiful specimens of this form of cyst, though none of them are, perhaps, of a size to have formed ® See Dr. Cousins’s case, loc. cit.