DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND FAUCES. 499 at the points. The uvula should be caught with a pair of hooked forceps to prevent its being swallowed, and will be found thicker on section than rniWit have been anticipated. [A convenient form of uvula scissors is repre- sented in Fig. 1008.1 Ulceration of the tonsils of a superficial character is common in infiam- matory alfections of the throat, and the ulcers are often covered with aph- thous patches in patients whose vitality is low. The deep, excavated ulcer of the tonsils, nearly circular in shape and covered with a thin gray slough, is symptomatic of secondary syphilis, and will only yield to constitutional treatment. Irregular, excavated ulcers presenting a yellow slough, seen upon the uvula and soft palate, or on the posterior wall of the pharynx, are almost always due to tertiary or inherited syphilis, and will heal rapidly under the administra- tion of iodide of potassium in full doses. As the result of this form of ulceration, adliesions of the soft palate to the pharynx, with narrowing of the pharynx and nasal intonation, owing to the shutting otf of the nose, are occasionally met with. Interference with the cicatrices is ordinarily to be avoided, as no good result is likely to follow the division of the adhesions between the palate and pharynx ; but where tlie cicatrization leads to narrowing of the pharynx, division, and subsecpient ^ dilatation with bougies, may be advantageously undertaken.^ Tumors of the tonsils, as distinguished from glandular hypertrophy, are rare. In general hjmpliadenoma of the neck, the tonsils may be similarly attected, and may in the later stages ulcerate, as in a lad of seventeen under the author’s care. A few instances (Wat'mct fbro-cellular tumor of the ton- sil have been met with, one of the most recent being that recorded by Mr. Fitzgerald,^ Surgeon to the Melbourne Hospital, which occurred in a bo}" of fifteen, and had been present four yeai's, gradually blocking up the fauces. It was successfully removed, and was of irregular, ovoid form, distinctly en- capsulcd and lobulated. “ Its measurements were : Length 21 inches ; lu-eadth 1|- inches ; thickness 14 inches. Under the microscope, sections were found, unless very thin, to have a confused fibro-cellular appearance, not cleared up at all by acetic acid. IVheii traced out, tlie growth was found to consist of small cells, rounded, oval, or spindle-shaped ; the spindles, as a rule, were nucleated, and the round cells destitute of nuclei.” According to Butlin, round-celled sarcoma is the most common of all malignant tumors of the tonsil. Cancer of the tonsil is rare; it may be primary, in which case it is cucepha- loid, or more rarely scirrhous; or secondary, from extension of epithelioma from the tongue and [lillai's of the fauces. Cases of encephaloid cancer of the tonsils in connection witli development of cancer in the lympliatic glands of the neclc and in the spleen, have been recorded l>y Carswell, Sydney Jones, and Moxon; such cases are clearly be- yond surgical treatment, but when the disease is confined to tlie tonsil it has been successfully removed. Mr. Poland,® in an exhaustive article upon “ Cancer of the Tonsil Glands,” shows that the diagnosis of cancer in tlie early stage is very difficult, it being confounded with chronic hypertrophy or sypliilitic gumma. Its rapidity of growth and tendency to involve surrounding structures, including particu- larly the lymphatic gland at the angle of the jaw, will afterwards serve to dis- ' See .a Case of Extreme Pharyngeal Stenosis, with rt'sumi' of subject, by Smith and Walsham. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. Ixiii. 1880. ^ Australian Medical .Journal, September 15, 1880. ® British and Foreigji Medico-CJiirurgical Review, April, 1872.