PYLORECTOMY OR PARTIAL UASTRECTO.MY. IIO'J 3 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed. vol. ii. j>. 742. removed at tliis stage. As soon as the diseased parts have lieeii isolated, a large and properly anti-septicized Hat s[»onge should he placed beneath them, so as to protect the peritoneal cavity, and form a bed upon which these parts may lie whilst they are being cut away. The Avails of the stomach are noAv to be cut through Avith scissors, commencing at the lesser curvature and making the division ohli(juely across its surfaces. All bleeding is to he arrested after each stroke of the scissors, and for this juirpose many ligatures have been found requisite for the cut edges of duodenum and stomach. If the stomach is not quite empty, its contents should be soaked u]) Avith a sponge specially reserved for the puiqiose. Alickuliez,^ folloAving Ilillroth, says that it is not necessary, after section of the stomach, to close it Avith AVAhr’s compressor, because, if care has been taken to Avash out the stomach Avell before the operation, no escape of contents need be feared. Eydygier places his compressors on the stomach and duodenum, and then removes the tumor by dividing the intestinal Avails near to the conqtressors. The pylorus, uoav held by volsella-forceps, is next to be scq)arated i'rom the duodenum, Avhich should he snipped through stage l>y stage, in the same careful and gradual manner as the stomach, arresting the bleeding as it occurs. Lest the gut should slip back into the abdomen, a loo]) of silk shoidd he i)assed through its serous and muscular coats, beloAV the point of section, and it should he thus geutl}' field by an assistant. A iilug of carholized cotton-wool, or a small sponge, may be temporarily inserted into the open orifice of the duodenum. With the view of diminishing as far as possil»le the inequality in the size of the openings in the stomach and duodenum, AVehr adA’ises the enlargement of the duodenal orifice by making an olilupie instead of a transverse incision across it. Eydygier, on the other hand, diminishes the size of the gastric orifice by cutting out a triangular piece in the greater curvature, and sewing together the edges of the notch thus made. Eillroth closes the gastric open- ing until it is of the same size as the duodenal. In a case of successful pylo- rectomy for gastric ulcer, reported liy Dr. A^an Kleef,'^ of Alaastricht, the opening into the stomach Avas so small that only one finger could he inserted, and it had to be actually enlarged to make it fit the duodenal opening. This is a condition Avorth remembering Avhen operating for simple ulcer or cicatrix. The diseased mass having been excised—or, it may be, even before its separation from the stomach is completed—the cut edges of tlie stomach in part of the length of the Avound should he brought together by sutures, care being taken that the serous coats are apilied to one another. In attaching the duodenum to the rest of the edges of the wound in the stomach, it is best to begin at their posterior Avails. After permant-Uitly adjusting the posterior jiortions, the anterior parts of the stomach and duodenum are to he united. Throughout, the serous surface of the stomach must he retained against the serous coat of the duodenum. Eillroth recommends inserting the jiosterior sutures from the inner surface before the duodenum is completely divided ; or several threads may he carried through the Avails of the stomach and duo- denum to form the posterior “ ring suture,” and shouhl be held by an assistant Avhilst the separation of the growth is conqileted and the occlusion-sutures arc adjusted. Either Lemhei't’s or the continuous suture, iuterrupted and finished off after every four or five stitches, as suggested by Pollock,^ should he employed. AVehr and Eillroth attach great imjiortance to the manner of placing the sutures; and Billroth, before closing the abdomen, examines each suture to see that it is fast. Fine silk, such as the Chinese tAvist, is a good ' Journal (1(3 Med de Paris, .1 Aout, 1882. 2 American Journ. Med. Sciences, A]iril, 1883, j). .182.