276 ' INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. same in old people witli clironic conjunctivitis, are important factors in the production of this disease. treatment of ectropium is palliative, and if possible curative. The first point to be made out, with a view to treatment, is the etiology. If cicatricial contraction of the skin is the cause, that must be relieved in a way best adapted to each case. General rules only can be given: the special modifi- cations must be suggested by the genius of the surgeon. Extensive dissections, torsion and sliding of flaps, and especially great tension after the use of sutures of whatever kind, are veiy liable to result in failure to heal by first intention, sloughing, and serious aggravation of the original deformiG. It is for this reason that skin-grafting and transplantation, after removal of scars and proper preparation, have of late years been so extensively tested. There is no other region of the body where a skilful resort to this safe pro- cess is crowned with such brilliant results. If the patient is not completely relieved, he is probably somewhat benefited, with a chance of further im- provement in the future. At all events, the case is not made worse by the operation. The great advantage of skin-grafting is that it can be properly employed in the early cicatrizing stages, to prevent as well as to relieve; while plastic operations by sliding, etc., must be deferred a-very long time, to diminish the risks of sloughing. In ectroinum imralyticimi^ canthoplasty, as already described, is always applicable, safe, and beneficial. As a rule, entropium following trachoma witli contraction, or chronic marginal blepha- ritis, is aggravated by blepharophimosis. To overcome this by dividing the external commissure, and stitching the skin and conjunctiva so as to prevent closure, thus enlarging the palpebral opening, helps very much to relieve the inversion. On the contrary, in treating ectropium, the outer commissure should be pared and united in many cases, as one of the means of affording relief to the deformity. In some cases, with great thickening of the everted conjunctiva and hyper- trophy of the tarsus, an excision of a longitudinal portion of the diseased structures, the wound being closed by loops brought out through the skin below and tied over a small tent, gives excellent results. The wise choice, in ead) case, of the best method or combination of methods, to suit the pecu- liarities present, will distinguish the surgeon of tact and experience from the mere cutter. Of all the regions of the body, the face divine calls for the most thoughtful and skilful surgery. A bad job, anywhere else, may be covered up, and in a measure concealed from the gaze of the curious and the critical; but a marred visage is an open reproach to the surgeon, and a source of extreme mortification to the patient. The treatment of the ectropium which results from deep burns of the face, from caries of the orliit or injuries with depressed cicatrices adherent to the bone, and from mutilations of various kinds, is a department of plastic sur- gery too important to be dealt with briefly. For the various methods by which these conditions are to be ameliorated, I can only refer the reader to more elaborate works on oplithalmic surgery. Suffice it to say that, with few exceptions, the results are uncertain, and failures often disastrous. In my opinion, eflbrts to eflect a cure by skin-grafting, combined with careful plastic operations, give the most promise for the future. Merely cosmetic surgery, if not brilliantly successful, is not appreciated; and failures may likewise be hrilliant! Symblepharon.—To avoid nice distinctions and long names, I include under this head all unnatural adhesions of the lids with one another and with the globe of the eye. To allow' the utmost freedom of rotation and easy movement of the lids, a well-lubricated surface and exuberant folds are sup-