794 INJUKIES OF THE CHEST. and shrinks with so sudden and characteristic an expression of suffering when the seat of fracture is pressed, or any movement of the trunk attempted, that the surgeon familiar with these injuries hardly needs to search for the physical signs of fracture. The pain of simple contusion of tlie chestwvall, and that which accompanies fracture of the ribs, though different in char- acter in these injuries, is in both superficial, a feature which luay serve to distinguish it from the deep-seated pain of lacerated or contused lungs. In both contusion of the cliest-wall and contusion complicated by fracture, the progress is, as far as this symptom is concerned, similar, provided that no intra-thoracic inffammation or other accident occurs to alter the usual course of such cases toward recovery. The pain gradually loses its acuteness, more rapidly in simple contusion than where fracture is present, and about the tenth day ceases to attract attention. These characters of pain are necessarily ill defined in incomplete fracture of the ribs, a lesion which, in the living, can hardly be distinguished from simple contusion ; again, in fractures of the costal cartilages the pain is less marked and less characteristic than that which attends fractures of the bones. The attitude of 2)atients suffering from either of these injuries, as they lie in bed, is, in the earlier days of their progress, most characteristic, and is the direct result of the effort to avoid pain ; such patients lie commonly on the back, inclined to the injured side just so far as to set the sound side free without bringing the weight of the body to press on the seat of injury. This attitude is most marked in cases of fracture. The treatment of simple contusion, and of contusion complicated by fracture of the rib or costal cartilage, without injury of the pleura or thoracic viscera, is to he conducted on the same principle—the enforcement of rest, and, if need he, compression of the chest-wall, such as shall limit its motions, either liy bandages embracing the entire circumference, or by straps of adhesive plaster drawn tightly over the seat of injury. In simple contusion, compli- cated oidy by ecchymosis, pressure may be replaced by lotions compounded with drugs such as are accredited with the power of promoting absorption of effused blood. The guide in selecting the kind of remedy is the expres- sion of the patient’s feeling; if pressure be agreeable, it is to he adopted, to be abandoned again if disagreeable; only in contusion complicated by frac- ture of the costal cartilages, as seen in limited injuries of the chest, does pressure require to he applied with exceptional care and exactness; for \-ery visible and palpable deformity usually attends these fractures, in consequence of the overlapping of the fragments of the broken cartilages—a deformity difficult to overcome, and, if suffered to become permanent, likely to he an opiu’obrium to surgical skill; beyond this it does not appear to entail any disadvantage.^ Contusions Involvino the Thoracic Viscera.—The second group, con- tusions of the viscera without wound of the walls of the chest, contains a series of injuries of the highest importance, both in consequence of the risks to life which the}^ entail, and on account of the difficulties which they pre- sent in the way of exact diagnosis. In the cases of this group which occur most frequently, a direct blow breaks one or two ribs, or more, where it strikes; the force reaching further, drives the fragments of the broken bones inwards, causing, in the least degree, laceration of the parietal layer only of the pleural membrane, with probably slight bruising of the surface of the lung, hut falling short of any laceration of tlie visceral layer of the pleura. 1 The detailed examination of fractures of the bones and cartilages of the chest, will be found in the article on fractures.