EPISTAXIS. 397 nostrils, or because the operation was not performed until the patient was exhausted by hemorrhage. Edwards reports likewise a fatal case of bleed- ing from the nose,' and Parker Smitld lost twelve out of nearly thirty cases of diphtheria, in which, on account of the age of the patient, it Avas impos- sible to tampon the posterior nares. Epistaxis, which it should be borne in mind is but a symptom, may be either immary^ in other Avords, dependent upon some intra-nasal lesion, or secondary^ the sequel of some general con- stitutional condition or diathesis. Primary Epistaxis.—The common variety usually occurs from one nostril only, and is dependent upon direct violence or irritation. BIoavs, ulceration of the mucous membrane, and the presence of groAvths, especially Avhen of a malignant character,^ constitute efficient causes. Cloquet' mentions irritant gases and powders as giving rise to epistaxis, and finally idiosyncrasy, as shoAvn in the peculiar results developed by the inhalation of certain odors, must not be forgotten. A very common, but not generally appreciated cause, lies in the existence of a small, seldom extensive erosion of the mucous mem- brane of the cartilaginous septum, just above the point of the former’s junction Avith the skin. The term ulcer cannot be correctly applied to this lesion— certainly not in its earlier stages, and as commonly seen—for although there is of necessity some loss of substance, no marked excaARition exists except in extreme cases. Catarrhal conditions may or may not coexist; they probably Avill, but it must be borne in mind that neither erosion noi- ulceration is a feature of simple nasal catarrh. On the contraiy, I believe that these erosions are ahvays the result, primarily, of the direct mechanical irritation or injury caused by the forcible and repeated removal of the slight crusts of inspissated mucus Avhich are formed in the first instance liy A’arious accidental circum- stances at this point (a slight concavity here is not infrequent), the huger being the common instrument. The epithelial covering of the parts being thus once disturbed, the subsequent steps of the process—constant crust- reneAval and gradually deepening ulceration—folloAv, until perforation of the septum, no infrequent accident, is the result.® Secondary Epistaxis.—This variety may be either active or ixissive. Under the former head may be enumerated those bleedings Avhich occur Avhen for any reason there is a sudden determination of blood to the head. Mackenzie® discredits the old-time view, that the accident may be produced by Ioav atmospheric tension at great heights, and CloqueE says tliat it is possible to ascend passively to a considerable height, as in a balloon, Avithout its occurrence. Passive epistaxis is met Avitii in an inveterate and dangerous form in the subjects of the hemorrhagic diathesis; it also occurs in purpura hemorrha- gica, scurvy, and variola hemorrhagica. Mosler,® in eighty-one cases of leuk- pemia, records sixty-four examples of hemorrhage, and in thirty-tive of tliese the Ideeding Avas from the nose. In influenza, variola, measles, and scarlatina, and in remittent, typhoid, and rela})sing fever, it may occur at the inception of the disease, during its course, or as introducing a crisis; more rarely it is seen in acute tuberculosis, trichinosis, and some other similar conditions. In sim- ' Transactions of tlie Mississippi Medical Journal Association, 1881. ^ Watson, Diseases of the Nose, page 51. London, 1875. Virchow, Krankhaften Geschwiilste, Bd. iii. S. 4G3. * Osphresiologie, p. 550. 1821. ® LelfertSj Medical News, January 28,1882 ; Little, New York Hospital Gazette, March 8, 1879. •> Lancet, November 10, 1877. ^ Op. cit., p. 500. ® Die Pathologie und Therapie der Leiikainie. Berlin, 1872.