222 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. are scarcely known. The disease has made serious ravages in Belgium, Italy, and other countries of Europe, since its general introduction by the return of the French army from Egypt. Still, it has prevailed more or less extensively in most countries, before and since that event. It is much more likely to spread among the poor, and those whose habits are not cleanly, especially if they work hard and indulge in all sorts of irregularities and dissipations. The crowding together of large numbers of people in badly ventilated quarters, favors the grave character and spread of this dread disease. It prevails very largely among the farmers and laboring classes of all the "Western States and territories, and, when it enters a family, is very apt to attack all its members and persist indefinitely. The diagnosis is usually very easy, although many cases of simple hyper- 8emia of the conjunctiva, or chronic cases of conjunctivitis, are treated severely and during long months for supposed granulations. The rough, rugous, and often “ cockscomb” appearance of the everted lids, and of the retro-bulhar folds, is recognized at once. In more recent and milder cases, where the in- flammatory deposits are not so large, the surface is less rough and character- istic, hut still a very little experience will prevent its being mistaken. In the reflected folds, the deposits are often more sharply isolated, roundish, and somewliat elevated, in rows with the folds, semi-transparent, like frogs’ eggs, and but slightly vascular. With more violent inflammation, swelling, and redness, their individual peculiarities cannot be recognized. Granulations are confined mainly to the tai’sal and reflected parts of the conjunctiva, hnt sometimes extend to the sclerotic portion, and even to the cornea. In some instances the hypertrophied structures and infiltrations, although seemingly enoi'mous, are superficial, and disappear with little or no trace of cicatricial lesion. In others, apparently not as had, the new deposits are deep and de- structive to the conjunctiva and tarsus, and are followed by serious lesions, distortions of the lids, and such impaired functions as to make the eyes almost useless and a life-long trouble. Deep or untimely cauterizations in- crease the danger of serious organic lesions, and their disastrous effects upon vision. There is always, preceding and accompanying granulations, inflam- mation with its symptoms, perverted and increased secretion, and more or less suffering and functional disturbance of vision. The droopy and sleepy apiiearance of the eyelids in these cases is pathognomonic, and yet the diag- nosis must he made sure direct objective inspection of the entire conjunc- tiva. To this end it is necessary to evert the lids. If the patient does not shrink back from the surgeon, and will look firndy to the floor, it will be easy to turn the upper lid in the way already described (page 198). The lower conjunctival folds are readily exposed by drawing the lower lid down while the patient turns the eye upwards. Inspection of the cornea is secured by sliding the lids apart while the patient turns the eye down, avoiding eversion. Treatment of Granular Conjunctivitis.—In a long and large experience with this disease, I find fhe main difficulty to he in keeping the inflammatory ele- ment under safe control. The proneness to acute relapses, each setting the patient hack and retarding recovery, must never he lost sight of. By wise circumspection these may be prevented or cut short, so that at last they will cease to occur, and the patient will get well. Just here lies the difiiculty of treating these patients at long range. They need to he seen daily, and kept under the closest supervision, for weeks, and months, and even years. If, after proper treatment for a few days or weeks, they feel better, they insist upon going home, promising to “ carry out fhe same treatment.” If no better, or Avorse, they despair and change doctors. So they go tlie rounds, and come hack, if at all, always worse. If frankly told at the start that the