INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 926 kidney is associated with wounds of the stomach, liver, s])leen, or other im- portant part, such as the intestines, diaphragm, or spine, a speedy death from shock, or shock and hemorrhage combined, is very prohahle. If tlie wound is outside the peritoneum, there may form, after several days, a dull swelling in the renal region, due to retro-peritoneal accumulation of urine, or of urine and blood. Ditfused urinous intiltration into the cellular tissue of the loin is not a common occurrence. When hrematuria occurs, it ina^' come on at anj' time from a few minutes to a few days, though it usually sets in after a few hours ; it may last for only a day or two, or extend over several days ; it may be slight and merely sufficient to stain the urine, or it may be }n’ofuse and even fatal. Retention of urine, which has been known to last for four, live, or six days, and then to be followed by the passage of bloody urine and clots., has in some cases of punctured wound been a striking featui'e. In two gunshot cases, pieces of cloth from the soldiers’ nniforms—in one instance accompanied by epithelial detritus, and in the other coated with phosphates—were passed by the urethra. Probably the most singular case on record, as illustrating nearly the whole series of s3Mnptoms of injuries of the kidney, is that recorded bj" Ilennen:—^ All officer was wounded by a iiiusket-ball wbicb entered close to the interval of the ninth and tenth ribs, about midway between the sternum and s})ine, and was cut out from near to the point of the transverse process of the lowermost dorsal vertebra, on the day after the receipt of the wound. Within an hour he voided a quantity of bloody urine. He was in extreme pain, wbicb was aggravated by his being moved a distance of three leagues the same night. Soon the pain spread from his wound over his bowels, and delirium set in ; he was then bled several times, and blisters were applied to bis abdomen. Then followed intense pain in his right shoulder, and the wound in his back nearly mortified from his lying so long, but in seven weeks he was well enough to be sent to England. The journey excited fever, and peritonitis again set in ; and a tumor formed in the site of the posterior wound, which was punctured at the end of a fortnight, and six ounces of pus having an urinous smell were discharged. The discharge con- tinued for some time, and another abscess formed lower down, which was punctured in about three weeks, and a large quantity of jais of the same kind escaped. The abscess healed, and burst again and again ; pain, emaciation, and fre(pient micturition, with actual lessening of the (piantity of urine voided, together with the synq)toms of renal colic, followed, and then at the expiration of seven months from the infliction of the wound, he passed per urethram something liaving the shape of a sliort, thick shrimp, which, upon examination proved to be a piece of cloth, covered with black grit. After this, he rapidly convalesced. diagnosis.—The sitnatiou aiul nature of the tvournl, ami the presence of liiematuria, or the escape of urine h}' the external wound, or some form of dysuria, accompanied by lumbar pains, are tlie most certain signs. Iltema- turia has lieen noted in the larger proportion of cases, and is so faiil}’ constant a sympdom that it ought to cause susp)icion in cases in which there is neither dysuria, nor escape of urine by the wound, nor any' evidence of urinaiy extra- vasation. If the luematuria is associated with, or followed by*, traumatic ])critonitis, the evidence becomes stronger. It must be borne in mind, how- ever, that the kidneys wounded without haunaturia occurring, whilst haunaturia may follow a Idow without the kidneys being wounded. Prognosis.—Though dangerous, wounds of the kidney are liy no means necessarily mortal. Ilenneji says :— The slightest reflection on the situation and structure of tlie kidney, and on its various sympathies, will at once show the desperate natui-e of wounds inflicted on it, even with all the caution of a curative intention. The instances tliat I have observed where Op. cit., pp. 422 et seq.