INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TEE AIR-PASSAGES. 670 in which, with the aid of the laryngoscope, he removed a pin which for thir- teen months had transfixed the left arytenoid cartila2:e and aryteno-epi- glottic fold. Symptoms of Foreign Bodies in the Air-Passages.—The usual symptoms are a sudden paroxysm of pain, cough, sense of sufibcation, and spasm of the larynx. The graphic description of a severe initial paroxysm given by Prof. Gross,* includes all the phenomena of impending suftbcative apnoea: that is, surprise, gasping respiration, violent coughing, distressing cries, partial loss of consciousness, lividity of countenance, projection of the eyeballs, contortion of the body, external manipulation of the throat, exit of frothy mucus and even of blood from the mouth and nose, emesis, and involuntary discharge of feces and urine. The initial paroxysm may terminate fatally, or may pass oft' after lasting from a few seconds to several minutes, or even several hours, should the foreign body be arrested in the larynx. Subsequent paroxysms occur at intervals of minutes, hours, or days, varying with the nature of the foreign body, its location, and the constitutional proclivities of the individual. The same circumstances determine whether, during the intervals, respiration shall remain tranquil or he disturbed, cough be slight or severe, and the voice be natural or changed. In many instances the symptoms are slight from the beginning. After the violent, initial paroxysm has subsided, they may be so slight as to furnish no special subjective manifestation whatever, even though the foreign body be deeply impacted in the lai'ynx.^ False security may be induced in this way, and a sudden change of the intruder’s locality may suddenly threaten suftbca- tion.^ '^Iraumatism may ensue from angular and irregular bodies, and thus pro- gressive inftammatory symptoms—cough, hoarseness and dyspnoea, with in- somnia and anxiety—may become superadded to those already existing. These secondary symptoms are sometimes prolonged after the removal of the foi’eign body, continuing until the fnftammatory complications and sequelae have sub- sided. Should the position of the foreign body occlude the oesophagus, dys- phagia may become added to the eai’lier symptoms, and marasmus to the later ones. Long-continued symptoms of obscure broncbial and pulmonary dis- ease are sometimes indicative of the prolonged sojourn of an unsuspected or forgotten foreign body.* Hfemoptysis, dyspnoea, pyrexia, cough and expec- toration, attributed to pulmonary tuberculosis, sometimes cease at once on expulsion of a foreign body from the air-passages.® Diagnosis.—^There is usually some history indicative of the lesion. In its absence, the suddenness of the symptoms may establish the diagnosis. As noted by Delasiauve,® the diagnosis is difficult in the cases of epileptics. When tbe symptoms are slight and the history concealed, the case may be mistaken for one of laryngitis. A foreign body in the pharynx or oesopha- gus, if it occlude the aii’-passage or compress it, will give rise to most of the subjective and objective phenomena of a foreign body in that part. Dis- crimination is eft'ected by digital exploration, and by the use of the bougie ' Op. cit., p. 71. 2 Whistler, Lancet, December 2, 1876, p. 779 (illustrated)—a bone impacted in the larynx for five weeks. 3 Porter, Dublin Med. Press, February 9, 18,'19 ; cited by Mackenzie. * Moore, Goodhart, Maclagan, Begbie, and Sharkey (Lancet, New York ed., February, 1883, p. 147) ; Coupland, Lancet, May 31, 1884, p. 984.—In this case a diagnosis had been made of pleurisy at the left base. 5 Laborde, Gaz. Med., No. 48, 1868, p. 701 ; Cohen, Trans. Path. Soc. Phila., vol. iv. p. 148. •> Poulet, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 17.