886 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. case of an old man who fell on the floor in getting out of bed, and died in forty-eight hours from peritonitis. The gall-bladder was ruptured, and a large stone was found impacted in the cystic duct. The symptoms of rupture of these organs, if uncomplicated by injury to other viscera, depend on whether the extravasation takes place into the peri- toneal cavity, or into a space surrounded by adhesions. If no extravasation occurs, the only sjuiiptoms may he more or less collapse, with some abdo- minal pain, vomiting, and dyspnoea ; and these may soon pass off. If the bile escapes into the general peritoneal cavity, the symptoms of acute peritonitis will set in. John Bell says, “ I saw a man die in a veiy miserable condition, who had, by a fall, torn the gall-ducts, so that the abdomen swelled with dreadful pain ; the most thorough jaundice I ever saw; and the abdomen, when opened, was full of bile, serum, and coagulated lymph, the intestines universally tinged of a yellow color, universally inflamed, adhering at some points and gangrened in others.”’ If the bile escape into a space circum- scribed by adhesions, there will be the symptoms of acute, localized peritonitis, and jaundice ; at a later period a tumor will he formed in the hypochondrium, as in the cases above referred to ; and if the whole of the bile be exti-avasated into this cyst-like space, the stools will be white. The time at which the bile escapes varies; in I)r. Fergus’s case this occurred on the seventh day; in Ogston’s, in fifteen hours; whilst in others it was at the moment of the acci- dent. If the gall-bladder itself gives way, the bile is generally poured out in lai-ge quantity, and death follows immediately. Leseure^ mentions five cases, in four of which death was instant; the fifth case was that of a child, aged twelve years, who lived fill the fourth day. In Sutton’s case of rupture of the hepatic duct, the abdominal pain appears to have slowly increased from the time of injury ; jaundice and great abdominal distension supervened after some days, and death occurred on the thirty-eighth day. Jaundice is, prob- bly, the eflect of shock, though it may be the result of obstruction at the seat of injury. Treatment.—In any case where there is reason to suspect that the gall-blad- der is injured, or the bile-ducts torn, the greatest quietude should be observed, so as to prevent, if possible, the extravasation of bile, and to give time for the surrounding of the wounded part by organizable lymph. The cases quoted prove that the bile is not always poured out at once ; and if straining by vomiting, the use of purgatives, and active movements of every part and organ of the body be avoided for a few iveeks, there will be plausible grounds for hoping that recovery may take place. Absolute rest in bed, warm fomen- tations to allay pain, and the application of leeches over the seat of injury, should be resorted to; a little ice may be sucked from time to time to check sickness and allay thirst; and as little food as jiossihle, and that only of a liquid nature, should be given. If after several days it should become neces- sary to relieve the bowels, enemata, not purgatives, should he employed. If a tumor forms, the extravasated bile should be evacuated as often as need be by the trocar and canula. Fryer’s and Barlow's eases show that success sometimes attends this practice. Laparotom^q followed U]) by suture or removal of the gall-bladder, ought, in certain cases, to be ado})ted. Rupture of the Thoracic Duct.—FText to nothing is known of this occurrence, either as a distinct injury or as a com[)lication of other abdomi- nal ruptures. It is ditiicult to suppose that such an accident as sinq)le ' Discourses on the Nature and Cure of Wounds, 3d ed., p. 358. ^ Sur les Ruptures et les Perforations de la Vesicule Biliaire. Paris, 1824. (An inaugural dissertation.)