INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 962 of military surgery contain many examples of tistulse caused directly by gunshot wounds of the kidney, or indirectly by the kidne}’ becoming involved in the suppuration which follows gunshot •wounds of the loins. Stabs, and incised and lacerated wounds in the back and loins, are sometimes followed immediately, or after an interval, by discharge of urine. ISTeplirotomy for hydroneplirosis and pyonephrosis is likely to be followed by a permanent hstula, if the remnant of the kidney be not removed by nephrectoni}’. All traumatic renal fistula3 may be expected to close sooner or later. Abscess of the kidney, whether due to the irritation of a renal calculus or to tubercular or other form of renal disease, is a cause of urinai’y fistula in the loin, either by spontaneously bursting, or through the non-healing of the wound if the abscess have been opened by the surgeon. The discharge of pus and urine in such cases is often very obstinate, the wound contracting to a certain extent, and then I'emaining as a chronic, and sometimes even as a permanent fistula. A renal abscess may open into the colon, and has been known even to open into the stomach. In not a few cases in which the ureter has become blocked, the kidney or its pelvis, as well as the iieri-renal tissue, have suppurated, an abscess has opened on the surface, and a urinary fistula has subsequently formed. JMcClelland, of rittsburgh, records a case in which two fistulre formed as the result of obstruction of the ureter by calculi: the first ojiened in the loin, and gave exit to a calculus, and a sinus continued ; four years afterwards a second abscess formed, and was opened in the groin, giving exit to pus and urine. As the exci’etory function of tlie kidney remained, the woman’s state became very offensive, and she was relieved by, and recovered from, lumbar nephrectomy. This operation has been perfonned no less than seven times for the relief of lumbar, abdominal, uterine, and vaginal urethral fistulfe, and in six cases with recovery. Treatment.—The parts around the fistulous orifice must be ke^it clean and free from irritation and the contact of the discharges. Time should be allowed for the spontaueous closure of the fistula, and in many instances the surgeon will not be disappointed. If, however, the fistula persist, caustics, the hot iron, or an incision—so as to lay open any sinuous track, vivify callous surfaces, or remove spongy granulations or calculous deposit—must be tried. The injection of iodine solution, besides acting as a disinfectant, will sometimes stiimdate the sinus to healthy action ; dilute nitric and nitro- hydrochloric acid in solution have been tried, but without any marked effect. If a foreign body, such as a bullet, piece of bone, particle of clothing, or calculus, is kee})ing up irritation and preventing healing, it should be removed. If the other kidney be sound, and the fistula permanent, the best treatment is neplirectomy, and this operation should be practised in any case in A\Iiieh, other treatment having failed, the life of the patient is threatened, or his comfort sacrificed. It should, however, be borne in mind, that ]>er- sons may live long and comfortably, and even in good general health, with a lumbar fistula; and that though for a long time urine nuw have flowed freely from it, the quantity of urine discharged may at length be greatly reduced, or the fioiv may even cease altogether. FiSTiiLiE WHICH COMMUNICATE WITH THE Ureter.—These are generally, if not always, the result of operation wounds. Excepting those cases in which the pelvis of the kidney has been the seat of rupture, I do not know of any instance of traumatic ureteral fistula other than as a result of surgical wound. The doubtful case recorded by i\Ir. Holmes,’ subsequently received from the author another inteiq)rctation, namely, that it was a wound of the theca ver- 1 Med.-Cliir. Trans., vols. lx. and Ixv.