422 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. the origin of mucous poljqii to such influences as heredity, struma, sj’philis, miasma, suppressed menstruation, and the like (^lackenzie), while instances exist in which the local irritation of a foreign body has determined their development. The polypus, of a dingy, bluish-white color, with a smooth, shining, elastic surface covered by ciliated epithelium, devoid of sensibility and breaking easily under pressure, almost bloodless, of variable size and con- figuration^—the latter being determined by the gravitation of the contents of the polypus downwards, and by the shape of the nasal fossae—is single or multiple, and attached, as a rule, to the superior turbinated bone, more rarely to the middle, and only very occasionally to the septum f it may spring from the roof of the nose, or may extend into that organ from the frontal or ethmoi- dal cells, though this occurs but rarely. A single polypus may even be attached at several points to the surrounding nasal parts,^ but such roots are always to he regarded as the result, in the first instance, of pressure and friction, with subsequent ulceration and cicatricial adhesion, and not as true points of origin. Occasionally polypi contain fibro-cartilaginous concretions, or have small osseous formations upon their surface. Polypi are more frequent in adults than in children, and are found rather in males than in females. Once carefully removed, close to their attachment, the prognosis as regards their re-formation is favoi’able. Mackenzie^ says that only one in seven recurs, but he calls attention also to the iinj)ortant fact that, as in the case of recur- rent growths, tliere is always a possiliility of malignancy, proportionate to the rapidity with which they increase in size. The prognosis must be a guarded one, until lapse of time has established facts in respect to the question of recurrence or non-recurrence. Treatment.—The surgeon called upon to undertake the removal of nasal polypi has a wide choice as to means. The inventive ingenuity of the pi’o- fession has for years expended itself upon this subject, if I may judge from its literature. But here, as in other like conditions, the simplest surgical means consistent with the indications have proved the best. Jlie application of various drugs has been, and is to-day, extolled by observers whose ranks from time to time receive additions. Unquestionably, a gelatinoid polypus is occa- sionally amenable to local remedies, but cures thus obtained are not the rule ; these means may be summarized as follows: Primus,® the repeated local appli- cation of saffronized tincture of opium (Pr. Phar.); Bryant,® that of iodine ; Mackenzie,^ perchloride of iron, mixed with sufficient water to form a thick paste (also Reeder); other authorities, oxysulphate of antimony with sugar, gallic acid, tannin alone or in combination with burnt alum, borax, sugar, or camphor (Cohen), alcohol, strong astringent solutions, sulphate or chloride of zinc (Erichsen), or copper, and the like, lime-water, calomel, bichromate of potassium, nitrate of silver (Relaton), and pulverized blood-root (Gi’oss) as a snulf. Injections.—Reynolds® and others recommend the injection of the polypus by means of a hypodermic syiunge with various solutions ; among the remedies used, carbolic acid, glacial acetic acid, Lugol’s solution, and tincture of the chloride of iron (Reeder), occupy a prominent place. Evulsion is probably the method most widely emplo}'ed, and, though condemned in unmeasured terms by Voltolini, Michel, and Zaufal, when forceps are used, in good surgical hands, they can be productive of no harm, • Billroth, Ueber clen Bau der Schleimpolypen. Berlin, 1855. 2 Davies Colley, Brit. Med. Jour., June 30, 1877, p. 810. * Meckel, Path. Anat., pp. 304, 311, 313. Lectures on Diseases of the Nose. Lancet, July 28, Aug. 25, Nov. 10, 1877. ® Am. Jour. Med. Sci., vol. ii. p. 219. ® Lancet, Feb. 23 and Aug. 24, 1867. Lancet, July 28, 1877. ® Med. Record, Oct. 1, 1881.