1016 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. tlie pleura, the other forms of spontaneous opening are rare. Prohablj in 5 out of every 12 cases which pursue their own course, the abscess opens into the pleural sac or lung. Quaiu and Pickinsoid each record a case in which it opened into the groin. Duffin gives 6 cases (out of 26) in which the abscess opened into tlie colon, 1 in which it opened into the peritoneum, and 1 in which it opened externally at the loin. Diagnosis.—The history of the case, inipury as to the probable or possible cause of the symptoms, the existence of some or all of the constitutional signs of suppuration, the lameness and position of the lower limb, the situa- tion of the tumor, and the result of aspiration or of an exploratory incision in the loin, will serve to indicate the nature of the disease. Ilydro-nephrosis and pyo-nephrosis, new growths of the kidney, spleen, or liver, enlargement of the mesenteric glands, and cancerous thickening of the ascending or descend- ing colon, will in this way in all probability be excluded. The fever, the one-sidedness of the pain, and the attitude in standing or sitting, exclude lumbago. The absence of spinal deformity, and of other usual spinal symp- toms exclude caries of the vertebrre. But the diagnosis is sometimes by no means simple. Treatment—In perinephritis, dry or wet cupping, early blistering, or the application of some other form of counter-irritation, may prevent suppuration. As soon as the presence of pus is suspected, it should be searched for with the aspirator, or by an exploratory incision in the loin. When matter is detected, it should be discharged through a free opening made like the incision in colotomy; the abscess-cavity should be washed out with a solution of iodine or carbolic solution, and a drainage-tube should be inserted. The loin should then be enveloped in a large hot fomentation of equal parts of water and car- bolic-acid solution (1 in 40) applied on cotton-wool; or the carbolized gauze dressing may be applied. It is well to introduce the finger immediately after evacuating the abscess, so as to examine the condition of the kidney, and to detach any loose sloughs or remove any calculi which may be detected either within or outside the renal capsule. Absolute rest in bed should be enforced throughout. In 20 of the cases collected by Dr. Duffin^ early puncture had been made—in 12 of these with complete success, and in 6 others “ with a fair modicum of success.” The patient’s strength is to be maintained by nutritious food and tonics; and stimulants should be administered at such times and in such quantities as the case requires. Even when no pus exists, if the signs of acute or subacute perinephritis are followed by pain, tenderness, and swelling in the loin, much benefit will accrue from the relief of tension by the nephrotomy incision; and the wound should be prevented from healing by the introduction of a drainage- tube. In one case which has come to my knowledge, pus followed after a while the healing of the incision, though none escaped at the time of the operation. All pain, however, ceased at once, and the wound quickly healed; but shortly afterwards the cicatrix opened up, and pus escaped from the deep parts of the incision-track. The patient is now quite well, and able to get about. While writing these pages my attention has happily been directed to an able article, with a series of 10 cases, by Dr. II. I. Bowditch.^ In two of these cases early operations were performed, but no pus was observed at the time, and the operators considered that their operations had been in vain; but in both instances suppuration followed, and the tumors in the loin melted away. 1 Trans. Path. Soo. Lond., vols. v. and xvi. 2 Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. I(i, 1872, p. 556. ^ Perinephritio Abscess, its Complications and its Treatment. First Medical and Surgical Report of the Boston City Hospital. 1870.