DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 830 that of fifteen such cases, twelve occurred from ten days to seven months after parturition, one sixteen months before childbirth, one during preg- nancy, and one twenty-four years after the last pregnancy.^ They appear to he produced by the dilatation of ducts or sinuses which have been obstructed, or they may be the result of rupture of the canals. Such cysts form tumors, fluctuating or not according to the condition of their contents, which may be fluid or more or less solid. Gross mentions that out of seventeen cases, the contents in seven were pure milk, in two of the nature of cream, in one oil, in one a substance partly curdy and partly fluid, in five a semi-solid caseous matter composed of broken-down epithelium, globules of oil, and acicular crys- tals of palmitine and stearine, and in one a substance of the nature of butter. They are not usually attended with pain, but occasionally become inflamed. These cysts usually diminish in size when lactation has for the time ceased, but slowly increase during future pregnancies, until removed by operation. The treatment of these cases will depend upon the condition and contents of the cysts. If not causing inconvenience, the}’ may be let alone until lactation is over; if they do not then disappear, and if the contents are fluid, tapping the cyst should first be tried, and if this does not cure, an incision should be made and a drainage tube inserted ; when the contents are semi-solid, the cysts should be incised and a drainage tube introduced ; when inflamed, they are best treated by free incision. When menstruation has ceased—and the time for this varies between the ages of 40 and 51, exceptional cases having, however, been recorded, in which it has ended at the age of 30, or not until 55, or even older—the glandular structure of the breasts shrinks or becomes infiltrated with fat, and although the ducts may remain pervious, many of them are mere tubes, having no connection with cavities or acini, which have become obliterated. The per- vious ducts are often distended with fluid or semi-solid contents, which, in some instances, can be pressed out through the nipple. Atrophy and Hypertrophy of the Breasts. Atrophy of the breasts occasionally occurs in both married and unmar- ried women, and in such cases the glandular structure is either from the first feebly developed, or becomes atrophied, as in the case of old persons, or persons suflering from ovarian or uterine disease. Such a condition does not admit of treatment. Hypertrophy of the breasts depends upon an abnormal growth of the glandular structures, and usually commences soon after puberty. It has been met with in single and married women, and generally occurs in both breasts, although one alone has been known to be affected, llreasts attacked by this affection may attain a large size, and so cause both inconvenience and defor- mity. In some of these eases the breast is pendulous. The elder Gross met with a case in which the breast weighed 15 pounds, and he refei’s to an- other case in which the breast weighed 64 pounds.^ This enlargement of the breast may be simulated by the growth of tumors having some resemblance to the ordinary glandular structure of the part; but in these cases the con- dition is not one of true hypertrophy. The diagnosis of this disease is deter- mined by the uniform and permanent increase of the glands, ocourring in a young adult, and progressing until the size of the organs is beyond that met with during any of their active functional conditions. Birkett^ describes * S. W. Gross, Tumors of the Mammary Gland. * System of Surgery, vol. ii. * Holmes’s System of Surgery.