428 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. in one ease tore the tumor from its attachments by the fingers alone. The ligature has also, it is true, been successfully employed in a few cases. It is, however, impracticable when the tumor is large, has numerous attachments, or is wide spread. The method of applying the ligature has elsewhere been described.^ Michanx^ reports an apparently successful case of its use. Guntlier^ lost a patient by the tumor having fallen, after separation from its attachment, upon the laryngeal aperture, thus causing sutfocation. Other deaths are reported from pyeemia—a result to he anticipated from the presence of the large, sloughing mass in the pharynx—and from laryngeal complications. But passing mention need be made, and that in condemnation, in the present state of our surgical knowledge, of the chain-saw (Berouhaix), and of the kraseur (Chassaignac), although Durham and Bryant report successful cases of the use of the latter. Caustics, sucli as the actual cautery, caustic potassa, chloride of zinc, and the like, are, in the great majority of cases, not only absolutely inapplicable, but seem in all instances to stimulate increased growth. The increase of the tumor thus defies the energetic attempts made for its destruction. The galvano-caustic ligature, first employed by Middel- dorpf in 1853, has a number of successful eases to be placed to its credit— notably, three reported by Lincohd—but is open to many of the objections already alluded to. As in Dr. Lincoln’s cases, it may be I’adical and complete in its work of extirpation, but on the other hand it often fails, and cpiick re- production from the undestroyed base of the tumor is the result. The size, location, method of attachment, prolongations, and involvement of neighbor- ing parts by the tumor, must determine the indications for its use over more severe surgical procedures. It is certainly less open to objection than the means thus far alluded to. Electrolysis has answered its destructive purpose in a few reported cases,® and though the process is slow, may prove satisfac- tory in the removal of small tumors, especially those of an erectile nature. That it is a means of anything like general application, is out of the question.® Xothing in the above remarks is to be construed as against the use of the actual or galvano-cautery, as a means of destruction of the base of a growth after the more radical procedures for its extirpation that are now to be con- sidered ; nor as a method of reaching parts inaccessible to the knife, even after the cavity of the pharynx has been opened from without. In both such instances they serve a useful purpose, and indeed are indicated, to destroy all possible remains of the tumor. The methods of operating for the purpose of first rendering these tumors directly accessible, and, this being accomplished, of extirpating them, remain now to be considered. I shall merely allude to the methods of procedure, which are many and varied, and to tlieir originators. A special description of the operative steps requisite in each method, is not necessary here, and is impossible in the space allotted for this article. The subject is treated of in the majority of works on general surgery, and in other portions of this work.'^ In preparing the following summary, I have received much assistance from the valuable brochure of Sands already quoted, and to it I can confidently refer the reader for a succinct description of the opei’ative procedures, illustrated with wood-cuts showing the lines of the various incisions through either mouth or face, by means of which direct access is gained to the pharynx. ■ See section on nasal polypi. ^ Schmidt’s Jahrbuclier, Bd. cxxsiv. S. 311. * Operationen am Halse, S. 313. ' This paper contains a record of 74 operations for naso-pharyngeal polypi in 58 patients, tabulated with the result of the oj^erative treatment. Tlie series embraces all cases published from 1867 to date of publication. Archives of Laryngotoiny, vol. iv. No. iv. 1883. ® Nelaton, Med. Times and Gaz., March 16, 1867. ® See Althaus on the Electrolytic Treatment of Tumors. ^ See Vol. IV. pp. 455-459, and 543. 544, infra.