INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 87G from some other cause. Such was the case reported in a paper by Atliol John- son,* of a man aged38,Avho ruptured his liver and right kidney, and fractured his seventh cervical vertebra, lie died from the etfects of the injury to the spine three weeks after the accident, and at the post-mortem examination it was seen that an extensive rupture of the upper surface of the right lobe of the liver, live inches in length, “Avas perfectly united, AA'ith the exception of some fcAv ])oints Avhere the peritoneal coat still remained broken; but no lymph Avas found on the serous membrane, Avhich retained its polished appearance. The rupture did not extend very deeply into the organ. Several ruptures beauti- fully united, but not extending more than tAvo lines in depth, Avere found on the anterior siu’face of the right kidney ; no intlammation existe(l about this organ.” In a case reported by l)r. AA^^alter Fergus, there Avas also fair evi- dence of repair.^ Jiapture of the I/iver.—The liver may Ije completely broken through, or the rupture may be limited to either its upper or loAver sui-face. Out of tAventy- tAvo fatal cases of injury to the liver Avhich occurred at Guy’s Hospital, betAveen 1867 and 1872, the damage in the greater number (fourteen) Avas extensiA’c. In six cases the liver Avas partially or entirely divided in an antero-posterior direction; in eight it Avas severely lacerated in various directions ; ancl slighter injuries of the upper surface occurred in only tAvo, and of the under surface in only three of the number.* The liA^er, as I have seen, may he divided from before backAvards through its Avhole thickness ; or an irregularly shaped mass may he broken aAvay from the rest and found l}’ing loose in the abdomen ; or the gall-bladder, with the adjacent part of the liver-substance, may he rent otf from the surrounding parts. Dr. Alexander Ivilgour* has recorded the case of a man Avho AA^as said to haA’e had his belly jumped upon, and aaJio died in great pain on the second day after. At the autops}’, the gall-bladder, half distended Avith bile and blood, Avas found loose and cpiite separated from its connections. Some coagula, and one hundred and tAventy ounces of fluid blood, Avere found in the peritoneal cavity, and upon the rough, under surface of the liver from which the gall-bladder liad been torn aAvay.® A A^ery frecpient situation of rupture from external conpiression, Avhen the ribs are not broken, is the u[)per surface of the right lobe near its posterior border; the laceration in tliese cases may he transverse, or stellate, and of several inclies in length, Avitli ragged edges, and it may extend deeply into or through the liver-substance. It Avould seem that in these cases the injury aftects, not as might he expected the part compressed, but the most protected part, OAving to the forcible doubling up of the liver upon itself. Sometimes it is the hack part of the under surface of the right lobe Avhich yields, and then large quantities of blood ai-e poured into the cavity of the peritoneum, in front of and behind the stomach. AVhen the upper and hack part of the right lobe is torn, the effused blood may push up the dia})hragm so as to make it encroach considerably upon the pleural cavity, as in Mackmurdo’s case already referred to. When injured by the broken ends of ribs, there Avill he tAvo or more super- ficial rents or punctured Avounds, Avhich at the post-mortem examination Avill be found covered Avith blood-clot. In a case recently in the post-mortem room at the Middlesex Ilosjiital, the liver of a man Avho had been found dead in the street, Avas marked h}'^ one oblong, sub-peritoneal contusion, ' Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiv. p. y.'j. ^ Ibid., vol. xxxi. p. 45. s ])r. Frederick Taylor, (Tiiy’s Hosj). Rep., 3d ser., vol. xix. p. 2(J1. * Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, p. 352. 1841. ® A similar case, recorded by Ogston, is referred to in the section on Rupture of the Gall- bladder.