1038 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. ' Ediiib. Med. Journal, February, 1875, p. (186. To Mr. Lawson Tait belongs, I believe, the credit of Laving first shown that complete core Avill follow the removal of the uterine appendages ; at an}’ rate he has enforced this treatment both by argument and practice, and has thus made himself the advocate of a line of abdominal surgery which is almost certain soon to gain many supporters. i\lr. Tait has now removed the uterine appendages for liydro-salpinx no less than twenty-four times, without a single deatli, and has done the same operation for pyo-salpinx twenty times with uniform success, lie, however, warns surgeons that, owing to the adhesions and matting together of the appendages, these operations are the most difficult that he has ever performed—far more difficult than removal of an ovarian cyst with numerous adhesions. The operation is done by making an abdominal section as for ovariotomy, and then removing the ovaiies along with the tubes. Ligatures are used to con- trol hemorrhage, and for the pedicles; the “ toilette” of the peritoneum is care- fully attended to, as in ovariotomy; and when hemorrhage is severe, or the tube ruptures during the manipulations, or many adhesions have to be sepa- rated, the pelvis should be drained for the first few days after the operation. When owing to the firmness of the adhesions the appendages cannot be removed, the cystic swellings should be exposed by laparotomy and tapped witli an aspirator. Then the puncture should be enlarged, and its edges stitched liy continuous suture to the edges of the parietal wound, so as com- pletely to close the peritoneal cavity. Mr. Lawson Tait has done this in six or seven cases with ultimate good results; but the jtrocess is neither as satis- factory, nor as rapid in its effects, nor as complete in its cure, as the entire aljlation of the appendages. XI. 15UPPURATING OvARiAN Cysts.—Sup]>uration of ovarian cysts, whetlier as the result of spontaneous or traumatic inflammation, is an infrecpient oc- ciu’rence. Complex multilocular cysts, and those with more or less solid material, are the most prone to suppurate. The size of the cyst has little or nothing to do with the tendency to inflame; for in some cases the patients have been ignorant of the presence of a tumor, until the onset of the acute symptoms, which precede and accompany suppuration, has drawn attention to its existence. Causes.—It occurs sometimes without any known or traceable cause; but in most instances there is something which has definitely excited suppuration. Failing health, acute intercurrent disease, some neighboring inflammatory affection, the jolting and shaking of a long journey, and blows, falls, or other injuries, are exciting causes. It has been a common oi)inion that suppuration in an ovarian cyst is almost invariably the result of tapping or some other surgical interference, but this is by no means correct. Keith' records five cases in which tapping had not been performed, and in his other cases no symptoms came on in less than five weeks after tapping. Syuipioms.—Suppuration may be acute or chronic. In acute cases the symptoms are abdominal }>ain and tenderness, often most severe ; dry and red tongue, with anorexia; pulse rapid and feeble, from 120-160; rigors and elevation of temperature, varying from 103° to 105° F. at night, and from 100° to 102° F. in the morning; exhaustion,loss of flesh, and profuse perspirations; vomiting and diarrhoea; sallow,shrivelled, and unhealthy countenance,and per- haps putrid discharge from the umbilicus, or elsewhere—all forming a group of symptoms sufficiently characteristic. Often the brain remains clear through- out a long and miserable illness; but in other cases the eyes become dull and vacant, the senses are deadened, and delirium occurs. As regai’ds temjiera-