239 CATARACT. vision. Had I made a critical examination of tins patient’s eye, the mistake could have been avoided; but the operation would have been essentially the same, and with the same result. The eye was inllamed and painful, and the history and strojig resemblance to a luxated lens led me to operate at once. Cataract. The most striking physical property of the refracting media of the e^-e, is their great clearness. ^V’^ithout this, neither the cornea, the crystalline lens, nor tiie vitreous could act as image-producing structures. The absence of bloodvessels in them, and the transparency of their elementary textures, secure their periect functional action. And yet thej’ are vital, animal mem- branes, moulded and arranged as a system of lenses. Xutritive changes are constantly going on in them, as in other parts of the body, but their nutrition is ]U'ecarious in proportion to the distance of their source of supplies, and the dilliculties of transportation. The wonder is that their lesions are so rare. The lenticular system is com])Osed of the lens proper, the inclosing capsule, and the suspensory ligament by Avhich it is held in place. The trans})arent capsule closely embraces the lens, and is united with it 1)}^ means of a la}mr of intracapsular cells, through which the nutritive changes are effected by a system of endosmosis and exostnosis. Of course, the influx and efflux of tiie nutritive fluids must be through the capsule. The supplies are second- hand, from the vitreous and the arpmous humors. Hence morbid changes in the chemical composition of either or both these humors may atfect the nu- trition of the lens, and produce cataract. Tlieir supplies also come from without, the aqueous probably being secreted by the bloodvessels of the ciliary ]>rocesses, and the vitreous maiidy from the choroidal circulation. Hence <listurbances in the free circuit of fluids through the capillaries of these tissues may indirectly affect the lens and cause cataract. Then again, as all the tissues are fed from the blood, an abnormal change in the healthy constituents of this pal)ukira may lead to disease in any organ, especiall_y in the trans- ])arent and bloodless structures, like the lens. Finally, the daily dying of the living bod}’', that begins in utero and ends in death, results from the increasing stagnation of the vital currents, with the prrigross of years. In the crystalline lens, the gradual changes of consistency, from hardening and drying of its textures, are indicated by the pi’Ogressive failure of the accommodation with increasing years. This ])repares the way for senile cat- aract. In childhood, the lens is soft and elastic,yielding in form to the deli- cate action of the ciliary muscle in focusing for very near objects; but this elasticity is slowly lost, till, at sixty or sixty-five years of age, no power of accommodation is left. Presbyopia then is due to physical clianges in the lens, an<l comes to all as age a<lvances. Hut its inconveniences differ according to the refraction of the eye. Suppose the subject is rm/opic in a rather high degree, say one-eighth, which means that his farthest point of distinct vision is eiglit inches from the eye. In boyhood, by voluntary action of the ciliary muscle, he can I’ead, and ])refers to read, at three or four inches, his nearest ])oint of easy accommo<lation. As he grows older and the lens hardens, he prefers to read a little farther away. The near })oint thus gradually recedes towards his far point, which it reaches when he is fifty or sixty years of age. Then he reads at his tiir jioiut (which is not/ur), eight inches, and reads well without the aid of glasses. IIis range or power of accommodation is gone, and his myopia remaining the same, all these years, with the same inq»eiTect sight for distance, the failure of focusing for near objects is not felt. The patient even imagines that his