DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 001 0 91 tlie edge of tlie entrance to the antrum, than at any other part of that cavity. The tioor of the tympanum, and the lower part of tlie inner wall, just above the tioor, are also localities in which such an area of bone-caries is apt to be found. Fistulous tracks in the region immediately above the rnembrana tympani are not uncommon. The prognosis, in all cases of chronic purulent inflammation of the middle ear, must be guarded. Our knowledge of the exact nature, location, and extent of the disease, is never sulhciently. exact to justify us in giving a posi- tively favorable prognosis. We are justified, however, in making the state- ment that judicious treatment succeeds, iu the inajoidty of cases, in either arresting tlie discharge entirely, or in rendering it so scanty that no outward evidence of its existence can be discovered by the ordinary observer. As far as danger to life is concerned, ive may give a decidedly favorable prognosis in all cases in which the perforation in the rnembrana tympani is of good size, and the external auditory canal not materially narrowed by exostoses. The cases tliat are likel}' to assume a grave as[>ect, are those in which pus stagnates iu tlie deeper recesses of the middle ear. In a few instances, tlie removal of mechanical obstacles (pus, masses of epidermis, granulation- growths, and undue swelling of the mucous membrane in the neighborhood of the labyrinthine ivindows and around the joints of the ossicula) decidedly inijiroves the hearing, but in a large proportion of cases treatment fails to niaterially benefit the })atient’s condition in this respect. In fact, the hear- ing is sometimes rcndere<l less acute; for, upon the arrest of the discharge, tlie chronically inflanied tissues become contracted, dry, and rigid, and the mobility of the ossicular apparatus is therelij' ini})aircd. In ]irinciple, the treatnicnt of these cases of chronic purulent inflammation of the middle ear is very simple. As stagnation and decomposition of the secre- tions are the chief source of all the inflammation, ulceration, and growth of granulation-tissue in the middle ear and external auditory canal, so our thera- peutic efforts must be directed chiefly to the fre(pient and thorough removal of tliese secretions. In very many cases, this part of the treatment can be carried out perfectly well by the ])atient at home. According to the activity and the degi’ce of foulness of the discharge, the ear should be douched or syringed from one to four or five times daily, either with simple, te])id Avater or, iireferably, with a Avarm, saturated solution of boracic acid (about tAvo drachms to the pint). If a sinus in tlie bone exists, or if there is a tendency to the accumulation of secretions in the mastoid antrum, or in the upper half of the tympanic cavity, the surgeon Avill have to Avash out these regions, at least tAvo or three times a Aveek, by the aid of a suitable canula attacbed to a gravity-douche, or to a bulb-s^udnge. If the skiu of the auditory canal, or the mucous membrane of the middle ear, be ulcei-ated, or in a granulatiiig conilition, at any point, Ave must apply pure nitrate of silver to the atfected spot. A Ijead of the caustic can rtvidily lie fused upon the end of a prolie or cotton-holder, and by means of such an instrument Ave may readily cauterize oidy the limited area that retpiires such treatment. A separate mass of granulation-tissue, no matter how small, can best be gotten rid of by means of a Avire snare or loo}», such as can be prepared in a few moments iu the admirable instrument known as “ lUake’s snare.” This instrument, Avbich Avas first described as “ Blake’s modifleation of Wilde’s snare,” is so ditfereut from, and so decidedly sipierior to, tbe latter instrument, that I have no hesitation in sjieaking of it as simply Blake’s snare. (Fig. 896.) In the case of the smaller polypoid groAvths of granulation-tissue, the ope- ration of passing the loop of Avire oA’cr the groAvth is so comparatively simple that no particular description of it need be giAmn. In the case of the larger growths, of Avliich only the outer portion can be seen, there may be some