ABDOxMINAL ABSCESSES. 10>]3 Brit. Med. Journal, May 21, 1881. Up. cit., p. 332. symptoms are attributed to pelvic peritonitis, pelvic cellulitis, or “ intiamma- tion of the bowels.” Yet a vaginal or rectal examination would clear the way to a right diagnosis by disclosing an enlarged, elastic, and tender swell- ing, of the size and in the situation of the ovary. Prognosis.—The abscess may remain a long while without rupturing. Occasionally there are observed in the post-mortem room such changes in the pelvic peritoneum and cellular tissue, and in the ovary, as to lead to the impression that the ovary lias at some former time been the seat of suppu- ration, and that recovery has followed the rupture of tlie abscess. It must, however, be admitted that other lesions may produce the same appearances, and further, that the more probable effect of the bursting of an ovarian abscess inwardly is death, either I'rom shock or acute peritonitis, or from the burrowing or extension of a pelvic abscess which has been circumscribed for a while by inflammatory adhesions formed before the rupture has occurred. Should the abscess burst into the bowel, vagina, or bladder, temporary relief or peiananent cure may result, but not unfrequently the opening closes and the abscess cavity refills again and again, until the [latient is worn out by suppuration or killetl bj^ blood-poisoning. The extent to wliich suppu- ration within and hehind the pelvic peritoneum may occur, and the multiple fistulous communications which may be formed with the intestines, bladder, and extei-nal surface, as the result of ovarian suppuration, have already been alluded to in previous sectioiis of this article. It is sufficient to say here that general peritonitis, pelvic peritonitis, pyelo-nejihritis and renal abscess, cellulitis, iliac abscess, and diffused abscess in tiie abdominal parietes (see one of Mr. Cullingworth’s cases especially), arc some of the various complications to which abscess of the ovary may give rise, and that either of them may have a rapidly fatal result. Ti'catiiient.—Prior to suppuration, treatment should he directed to over- come the ovaritis, or, wlien possible, to remove tlie cause which lias set u}> the ovarian irritation. When suppuration lias occurred, the (question of relief by oqieration must be considered. If the abscess is pointing towards the vagina or rectum, it should be oqicncd with a trocar or histoury, and when }>ossible drained. If it docs not point in any accessible direction, abdominal section followed I13’ the removal of the diseased ovary ought to be performed. I should u(ff hesitate in future in following the teaching of Mr. Lawson Taif, in fhis class of cases, namely that, when the health is destroyed or life tlircatened, and when the condition is not evidently due to malignant dis- ease, an exqiloratory ojieration should be performed, and the diseased uterine ap[>endage removed. If the cause of the ovarian disease were a uterine myoma, such an o]»eration, besides removing the diseased ovary, would also have a beneficial effect ipion the uterine growth, and there woubl therefore be a doulile reason for qierforming it, unless, as in my case above referred to,' tlie tumor liy its pressure had already comjiletely disorganized the kidneys and ureters. Mr. Tait records, in the last edition of his work on Diseases of the Ovaries,^ two successful cases in which this oqieration was performed. XI. IIjEMato-salpinx, IIydro-salpinx, and I’yo-salpinx : Abscess of Lallopian Tube.—ITmmto-scdpinx., or distension of the closed Fallojiian tube with blood; ITydro-salpivx, or dropsy of the Falloq)ian tube; and Pgo- salpinx., or distension of the closed Fallo]»ian tube with pus, are conditions of ^reat clinical importance, and likelq' to become still more so now that it is clearly proved that they can lie very successfully remedied by surgical o}ie-