INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 13 What, then, are the indications for or against the use of the trephine, when the diagnosis of intracranial suppuration from hone contusion has been arrived at ? In the present state of our knowledge, I think that all we are warranted in saying is that the operation is both justifiable and, when performed early, likely to prove a valuable resource in several conditions:— 1. If, with a wound over the parietal hone, particularly when involving its anterior half, there are the local symptoms,* with hemiplegia, hemispasm, etc., of the opposite side, especially if only the upper or lower extremity is involved, trephining is clearly indicated. 2. If, with wounds over other portions of the skull, symptoms of intra- cranial suppuration supervene, with neither distinct paralysis nor muscular spasms restricted to one-half of the body, but with general convulsions, or convulsions upon one side and paralysis upon the other, the local symptoms being well marked, trephining may be tried, and in some instances, when done early and freely, may save life.^ 3. When there are sym[»toms clearly referable to tlie neighhoi’hood of the fissure of Kolando, whether there be local signs of bone trouble or not, I think that, in otherwise desperate cases, we may properly trephine at the points which will be indicated when treating of cerebral localization, with a fair prospect of finding pus, either between the dura mater and bone, or subdural, or cerebral. The prospects of success are in direct proportion to the limitation of the motor disturbances. I consider that the operation, at the point of injury, is positively contra- indicated in the two following conditions;— 1. When the so-called local symptoms of intracranial suppuration, or the wound, is situated either over tlie frontal or the occipital region, with hemi- plegia, hemispasm, or partial paralysis or spasm of the limbs, upon eitlier the side of injury or tlie oi>posite half of the body. 2. When, with a wound over the parietal region, either with or Avithout tlie local symptoms, the motor disturbances are on the side of the injury. In either of these cases it is useless to trephine at the site of the wound. If pus wells up from the diploe while trephining, the prognosis is bad, as the case will probably prove pyiemic. If trephining were a dangerous operation 'per se, I should be more chary in recommending it; but I hope to show hereafter that in itself, when skil- fully performed, it adds little to the danger of the case. W"hen dealing with cases whicli are almost inevitably fatal if unrelieved, I feel that even temerity is justifiable; inucb moi’e a com[>aratively safe operation, which, even if it do no good, can result in no great harm. In a general way, the following points may prove useful in forming an opinion;— As a rule, the symptoms produced by the formation of pus between the dura mater and skull do not begin to appear before the sixth day, nor later than the beginning of the third week; those of suppurative meningitis usu- ally appear about the eightli day, and are rarely delayed beyond the twenty- first; while those of cerebral abscess, except in rare instances, ai'e not noted before the end of two weeks, and most commonly set in about the twenty- fifth day. If [)urulent infection supervene upon bone contusion, nothing more can be done surgically than to evacuate pus wherever it is accessible, whethei’ in the joints, the cellular tissue, the serous sacs, or the skull. Medically, a vigorous. ’ “ Pnfly tumor or secession of the j)eriosteum, if there is a wound. Chirurgical Works of Percival Pott, P.R.S., ed. hy Sir Jas. Earle, F.R.S., Tol. i. p. 82. Phila., 1819.