1028 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. > Bermitz and Goupil, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 150. Symptoms.—The tumors to which ilio-pelvic abscesses give rise, are often appreciable to the eye and touch in tlie inguinal and hypogastric regions, and are scarcely within reach of the finger in the vagina. There is an absence, at any rate for some time, of the general symptoms of peritonitis; whereas in purulent or sero-adhesive pelvic peritonitis with swelling similar to that of ilio-pelvic abscess, the diagnosis will rest upon the existence of the general symptoms of peritonitis in the one case, as compared with those of inflammation of the cellular tissue on the other. (Bernutz.) Fatal acute peritonitis may, Ijmvever, be excited by extension of inflammation from an iliac abscess, as the following case proves:— Mary S—, aged 17, a domestic servant, unmarried, was admitted into the Middlesex Hospital, under Dr. Coupland’s care, on December 4, 1882, complaining of a severe and constant cutting pain in the lower part of the belly; the pain was much aggravated by micturition. Three weeks before this date she had miscarried (about the third month of pregnancy), after lifting a heavy coal-scuttle. She did not feel very ill at the time, and, after lying down for a while, resumed her usual duties. At the end of a week she commenced to experience more abdominal pain, and took to her bed for a few days. Then feeling better she resumed her work, but the pain returned with increased severity, and she sought admission into the hospital. She was a I'airly nourished, but anaemic blonde, and w'as evidently suffering extremely. The pulse was small and rapid (140) ; tem})erature 99.8° F. On examination the abdomen appeared much distended, and in the hypogastric region (where marks of recent leech-bites were seen) there was an area of resistance and tenderness, reaching from the puhes to midway between this point and tlie umbilicus, and extending laterally for two inches on each side of the median line. There was dulness on percussion over the central part of this area; but elsewhere the abdomen was tympanitic. There was also general tenderness, although this was not marked in tlie region indicated. Belladonna was prescribed, and hot fomentations were applied. An enema was administered, and this was followed by a copious evacuation. The patient’s condition on the following day was not improved, and she vomited once in the evening. On Dec. 6, the temperature rose to 103.4°; the pain increased ; the tongue was dry, and about 7 P. M. vomiting again set in, accompanied by collapse. Death oc- curred at 10 P. M. The post-mortem examination was made by Dr. Fowler. On incising the abdominal wall, the sac of an abscess was discovered just above the symphysis pubis; it was triangular in shape, the apex pointing upwards, and it was situated behind the tendons of the recti muscles. It measured about two and a half inches on each side. The peritoneum was everywhere intensely inflamed, covered with recent lymph, and injected ; and on the right side of the pelvic brim there was a sac about the size of an orange, with thickened and pigmented walls, communicating by a pin-hole perforation with the above-mentioned abscess. This sac was formed in tlie sub-jieritoneal tissue covering the psoas and illiacus muscles, and the peritonitis was apparently due to ex- tension of inflammation, and not to rupture of the sac. The uterus was rather larger than usual, and contained some extravasated blood. The bladder, rectum, vagina, and ovaries were normal. The spleen was small, but normal; the liver pale and soft; the kidneys sliglitly congested ; the heart natural ; the lungs somewhat engorged. Ill ilio-pelvic abscess retraction of the thigh may exist, as it does in ilio- psoas, and occasionally in perinephric aliscess. I’hlegmons of the iliac fossa, when they occur, as they most frecpiently do, in the puerperal state, begin Avith abdominal pain and febrile reaction about eighteen or twenty days after labor. The pain is not sharp, like tliat of pleuris}^, but dull and throb- bing, like that of boil or abscess elseAvbere. “True phlegmons of the broad ligaments,” says Bernutz,' “ seem to be frequently a kind of early manifesta- tion of puerperal fever itself—a sort of critical abscess; and like the phleg- mons of the superficial iliac fossse, they have many points both of resemblance and of difference with pelvi-peritonitis. The liypogastric sAvellings, charac-