TRUSSES. 1177 pressure cannot be borne. Frecpiently they are made of an India-rubber, air or water cushion, supported by a thin steel plate of the recpiired sliape; or they may be stuffed with horse-hair, or with the material of the “ rnoc-main” pad. Trusses for Crural Hernia.—The conditions of effective truss-pressure in crural hernia are somewhat different from those in the inguinal variety. The hernial canal is a section of a tube placed nearly vertically (Fig. 1158 H), with its deeper (d) longer tlian its superficial wall (e), while its lower opening— the saphenous opening—presents a sloping surface like the oblique section at h. The pressure of the truss should he so placed as to close up the upper end of the tube, at «, by pressure upon Poupart’s ligament, while at the same time the lower opening, at 5, should be also }»rotected to prevent the rupture fi’om emei’ging through it as in figure B. These olijects are best effected by Fig. 1159. Diagram of crural canal. TrnsS'pad for crural hernia. a truss-pad of an egg-shaped outline, with the broad end placed upward, and resting upon the groove of the groin ivluch marks the position of Pou])art's ligament. The lower or smaller end rests on the saphenous opening, and is sloped off more obliquely than the upper (Fig. 1159 if), as seen in the section of the figure. The spring is fastened on by a screw in the centre of the pad, exerting its pressure equally over its surface. From the outside of the thigh, where the side-spring rests, lielow the iliac crest, tlie direction of the pad-end of the spring should be more depressed than in the truss for inguinal hernia; the pressure of the side-spring falls in the centre of the hernial canal, and protects eipially the crural ring, or entrance of the rupture above, and tlie saplienous opening, its point of exit lielow. The saphena vein and the femoral vessels also escape pressure, which is always more or less injurious. The former vessel lies under the sloiiing lower border of the truss-Yiad. In several instances a radical cure has followed the persistent use of a pad of this kind made of vulcanite, hut ordinarily an air or water cushion is preferred. Trusses for Umbilical Hernia.—For congenital umbilical liernia, the first application should be a [>iece of lint wrapped arouiul a penni^-piece, and kept on with a light flannel bandage, lightly swathing the infant’s body, and kept from galling by a lilieral use of powdered starch. When the child cries, or coughs, the pad should l)e kept in place h_y the additional pressure of the nurse’s finger, ^\^hen the.tender skin is a little less ii-ritahle, the coin should be wra[)ped up in a, j»iece of adhesive or soap plaster, ivith the sticky si<le out- wards, and held lirndy on the protrusion l)y straps of the same plaster, one