787 MOTOR DISTURBANCES OF THE INTRINSIC LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. sources of lesion w hich, from the nerve-centre to its laryngeal filaments, might be productive of the paralytic condition detected. Paralysis of a vocal band sometimes furnishes the first intimation of the existence of an aneurism of the arch of the aorta; and an autopsy sometimes verifies the accuracy of the diag- nosis, even when the ordinary physical signs have eluded detection,^ as in aneurisms located posteriorly. So too with other afiections. Paralysis of the recurrent in laborers accustomed to lift heavy weights, should always suggest the possibility of aneurism. In individuals who do not work hard, it may be one of the precursory manifestations of carcinoma. Prognosis.—The prognosis depends upon the causal lesion. If this can be cured or removed, tlie paralysis may he remedied, if nerve and muscle have not sutfered irreparable injury. Thus the prognosis is unfavorable in paraly- sis due to carcinoma of the oesophagus, to intra-thoracic tumor, to aneu- rism of the aorta, and so on. In paralysis of central origin, the prognosis is presumptively favorable only when that origin is syphilitic. It is much less favorable in systemic poisoning, whether diphtheritic or toxic, although recovery usually ensues in slight cases of diphtheritic paralysis, and often without treatment. In paralysis of functional origin, and in paralysis due to recent inflamma- tion, the prognosis is exceedingly favorable; yet results do not invariably sustain the prognosis. TreMimrit.—Treatment of the underlying lesion is the best method of at- tacking the paralysis. It often fails, especially when degenerations have taken place in the paralyzed nerve or in the }»alsied muscles. In bilateral paralysis of the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles, organic in origin, prophy- lactic tracheotomy should precede other treatment, so that life may be secured from sudden cessation by suffocation. Oidy in exceptional instances can this important step be justifiably postponed. Ilarely can it be ignored. Without it, topical manipulations of any kind are hazardous in the extreme. Strychnine by the mouth, or by hypodermic injection, is the drug of greatest value in most instances of laryngeal paralysis, especially those following diph- theria. Specific treatment is to be instituted in cases which are syphilitic in origin ; and antidotal treatment in cases of drug-poisoning. AVhen nerve and muscle have undergone little organic change, direct electrization to the affected muscle, or to the most superficial portion of the nerve-tract which is accessible, will often produce in time a happy response—sometimes an immediate re- sponse—especially in cases of functional character, even when of several years’ Mackenzie’s laryngeal electrode, and electrode for the neck. duration. Sudden restoration of voice in this manner sometimes impresses the unsophisticated patient like the mystic })araphernalia of a wizai’d. Tlie source of the electricity, whether battery-current or induction-coil, seems to 1 Coheu, Am. Journ. Med. Sci., July, 1883, p. 89.