OPERATIONS ON THE PANCREAS AND LIVER. Ilia wound. The peritoneum was then opened. The omentum was extensively adlierent by old inflammatory exudations. These were separated very slowly and caret'ully from the abdominal wall and from the surface of the stomach. This viscus was then drawn out through the wound, and the operator felt the pylorus much enlarged and of fibrous hardness. In the space between the two curves of the stomach, and at a distance of an inch and a quarter from the pylorus, an opening was made into the viscus with a stout pair of scissors, through a transverse fold previously raised. The opening into the stomach was extended two inches and a half, and T-sluq)ed forceps were used to arrest bleeding from the edges. The right index-finger was then passed into the stomach towards the pylorus, which was completely closed. The finger failed to pass into the duodenum in spite of considerable pressure and combined lateral and rotatory movements. The left index-finger was then introduced into the stomach, and used to fix the pylorus, while strong and renewed pressure was exerted to push the first phalanx of tlie riglit index into the narrow and contracted pylorus, which was then drawn forwards to the external wound. Along the right index-finger the left one was also introduced into the pylorus, but these attempts failed to pull one finger from the other, in spite of much force, sus- tained as long as possible (“ moltissima forza, nel sostenerla quanto piu a lungo potessi”). After resting, the operator resumed his efforts and dilated the pylorus, though he only succeeded in doing so very slowly, and by employing very great force. The dilatation was continued to about three inches (eight centimetres). The stomach wound was then sutured with carbolized silk, the viscus replaced in the abdominal cavity, and the external wound closed with seven silver sutures. The patient was returned to bed thirty-three minutes after the commencement of the operation. On regaining con- sciousness the patient complained only of thirst, and of a slight burning sensation at the wound. Small pieces of ice were given from time to time. In the afternoon the patient complained of weakness and hunger, and relished the yelk of an egg beaten up with Marsala wine, given in teaspoonfuls every half hour. The tenq)erature throughout the day was 98° F., pulse 72, res[)iration 2G. Tlie same kind of diet was continued. The third day after the operation the bowels acted after an enema; the fourth day, some broth and light paste were allowed; the fifth day, some chicken ; the sixth day, bread was added to the diet. On that day the bowels acted sfiontaneously. The wound was first dressed on the eighth day, and five sutures removed. The incision had healed by the first intention. The two remaining sutures were removed on the eleventh day. The thirteenth day after tlie opei’ation the patient’s diet consisted of coffee and milk, bread, roast chicken, roast beef, eggs, and wine. He was out of bed for two hours and a half on the sixteenth day, and rapidly gained flesh and strength. Two days before the operation the man had weighed 122 pounds, and he gained about 33 pounds in six weeks. He continued to en joy perfect health when presented to the Bolognese Academy, after the lapse of five montlis. I ItiLATATION OF TDE CARDIAC ORIFICE of tllC* stomucli luiS sllice llCOU pcl- forrned ]>y Professor Jjoreta, and Avitli equal success.! Operations on the 1’ancreas and I.iver. Extirpation and excision of tlie pancreas and of the liver have not yet heen hroiiglit tvithiu the category of surgical operations, except in cases such as have lieen referred to in other jiarts of this article, in which parts of the liver protruding through a wound of the ahdoiiiiual walls have been ligatured and cut away, or more or less of the pancreas has heen excised, with large ]ian- creatic cysts or cancers of the pylorus. Some exjieriments, made on animals, of I’emoval of parts of the liver hy means of elastic ligatures, have been recorded, hut they give little if any jiromise of success. Indeed, for the most }iart, the experiments have resulted in complete failure.