TUMORS OF THE JAWS. 539 This tumor has recently undergone a fresh examination by Mr. Eve, who believes it to be an example of a combination of sarcoma with epithelioma, of which, as far as is known, it is a unipue specimen. 2. Hound-celled sarcoma (the encephaloid sarcoma of Cornil and Ranvier, and others) is a more vascular and softer growth, and hence has more of the characters of a “ malignant” tumor. It grows very rapidly, invading the skin and forming fungous protrusions, and leads to deposits in internal organs. Many of the recorded cases of “ medullary” cancer of tlie jaw belong to tliis class. In the Museum of University College, London, is tlie head of a woman, aged twenty-four, who came under my care in 1808 with an enormous development of round-celled sarcoma in the bones of the face, invading the orbits and cranium. This originated in a growth on the mar- gin of the orbit, which had twice been removed by Sir W. Eergusson, and had again recurred. In a child of live, who was also under my care, a large tumor of the lower jaw had grown in seven weeks, when I removed it with the right side of the lower jaw. Recurrence took place in six weeks, when I again operated, removing a further portion of jaw, with a fungous growth on the skin. AUithin three months the disease again recurred, and destroyed the patient in less than six months after its first appearance. 3. Myeloid sarcoma lias long lieen recognized in relation with the jaws, in which situation it was originally described by Paget. It is found in connec- tion with the alveolus, forming the so-called myeloid epulis, and also in the interior of the lower jaw. Occurring in children or }mung adults, the mye- loid growth sjirings from the interior of the alveolus, and protrudes between the teeth, which may be displaced. The growth is softer than the fibrous e}iulis, and more vascidar, and occasionally presents characteristic dark spots beneath the mucous membrane. Or, when developed deeply in tlie interior of the lower jaw, it expands the bone without forming an external protrusion. The development of cysts is not infrequent in the interior of the growth, which may pulsate. A section of the tumor shows the maroon color result- ing from heniorrhago within the tissue, so common in myeloid growths. The question of recurrence in connection with myeloid growths is a very important one; and it may be considered that after complete removal, recur- rence does not take place. In 1875, I removed a myeloid tumor from the intei-ior of the lower jaw of a gentleman, aged nineteen, by free gouging, but without dividing the jaw. Recurrence took place, when I again operated very freely, leaving notliing but the thick lower border of the bone, and since then tlie patient has remained well. A remarkable case in wliicli myeloid tumors of both angles of the lower jaw were }iresent in a lioy of seven, was successfully operated on by me some years ago, and I believe that the patient has remained Avell since. 4. Alveolar sarcoma occasionally atfects the jaAvs, and in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, will lie found a s}iecimen of the kind. This form of sarcoma was called by Wedl “ a fibrous form of cancer arising from bone,” and should undoulitedly include the cases hitherto de- scribed as examples of scirrhus of lione. Mr. Wilkes, of Salisbury, has recorded a case of the kind in a man of fifty, who had a gloliular mass beloAv the middle of the horizontal ramus of the jaw, adherent to tlie bone, but movable, and after removal of one-half of the jaw the tumor Avas found to lie inclosed in a thick fibrous capsule connected Avith the periosteum. A simi- lar groAvth of the size of a chestnut, Avith a caAuty in the centre, Avas removed by Mr. Coates from a man of sixty-seven, and both specimens are noAV in the 11 unterian Museum. 5. Fihro-sarcomn, closely resemliles fibroma in external ap})earance, and generally groAVS beneath the periosteum. A tumor of the upper jaAV in the