854 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. Tenderness over the seat of injury is probably the most constant symp- tom, and it may exist witliont any other sign. It may be very slight, or very extreme in degree. When experienced immediately or veiy shortly after the injury, it does not indicate internal mischief; but when coming on only after many hours, or a day or two, it points to the onset of peritonitis. Swelling depends on the amount of blood, or blood}" serum, which is effused, and upon the texture of the region contused. In the loose tissue of the loin it is sometimes very considerable. There is nearly always some slight degree of tumefaction after a blow, even too gentle to rupture the cutaneous capil- laries ; in these cases there is no ecchj-mosis, but the part struck is tender and painful, becomes slightly tumefied, then turns red, and in twelve or twenty hours presents no trace of having been hurt. Pain either is caused by the contusion or actual laceration of the nerves, or is due to pressure of tlie effused fluid upon them. It is not often severe in uncomplicated contusions, as long as rest is observed, and the abdominal walls are not disturbed by coughing or vomiting; such, or indeed any move- ments, aggravate the pain. Shock, in simple contusions, is an uncertain symptom both as to frecpiency and degree. Sometimes there is none at all; for the suspension of the func- tions of the part injured, as evinced by the benumbing of the surface, and the temporary suspension of muscular action, are merely the direct local effects of the blow. In other instances the shock is suflicient to kill outright. Pol- lock and Bryant consider the evidence of the truth of the old doctrine—of sudden death caused by a blow on the abdomen, ivithout visible intra- abdominal lesion—to be unsatisfactory. Le Gros Clark, without denying its occurrence, says that he has never seen a case ; and Holmes remarks that, if the doctrine be true, tbe event is uncpiestionably rare. Sir A. Cooper, however, quotes the case of a man who was struck on the epigastrium and fell dead on the spot; and Dr. Hunter McGuire, in the second volume of this Encyclo- piedia, states that he saw a man, struck on the buckle of his sword-belt by a minie ball, fall dead in a few minutes, a contusion of the abdominal parietes being tbe only post-mortem evidence of injury. This case seems to cany conviction witli it of the truth of the old doctrine. Vomiting is an occasional and early symptom, especially if the injury happen shortly after taking food. It should be borne in mind that a contusion of the abdominal parietes may be followed by no immediate synq)tom, and yet that, after seven or eight days, uncomplicated traumatic peritonitis may set in; just as a blow or fall on the head may cause no appreciable symptom at the time, though coma or delirium may supervene after a week or two. The causes of contusion are either direct blows, kicks, falls, violent pinch- ing force, the rough pressure of a nurse’s hand, or the forcible compression between two opposing bodies, as in many railway accidents. Diagnosis and Prognosis.—It is sometimes impossible to say, for a time, whether an injury is simply a contusion of the abdominal parietes, or whetber the abdominal contents are injured as well. Xeither the degree of shock, nor the kind and amount of pain, nor the presence or absence of tenderness or ecchymosis, enables us to form an immediate diagnosis. Time, and close atten- tion to the development of symptoms—to the character of the vomit, if any ; inspection of wbat passes per rectum; and an examination of the urine—will alone suflice. If, however, extreme collapse, with pallor, rapidly or steadily increasing, follow directly after the injury, it will almost certainly point to laceration of, attended with hemorrhage amongst or beneath, the muscles; or to rupture of one of the abdominal organs. Kesults alone determine what injuries are superfleial and what are associated with gi-ave internal lesions,