INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. 57 and the other contracted, and, in any event, responding slowly, if at all, to light. Hemorrhage from the nose is said by Gross not to be an uncommon symptom, and'eveii bleeding from the ears may occur in rare cases, without fracture. If recovery is to ensue, the respiration becomes re-established, at first feeble and intermittent, interrupted by sighing,and then, perhaps—accord- ing to the cerebral lesions—noisy or labored. Idie circulation is feeble and irregular. The urine is usually retainecl, although there may be inconti- nence both of urine and feces. The skin is bedewed with a clammy sweat, and the temperature is subnormal, from 94° to 97° F. The special senses are obtuse, the patient usually lying with wholly or partially closed lids, or, when the eyes are opened, apparently not noting visual impressions. By loud shouting and shaking, the patient may be aroused enough to open his eyes and answer in a few short words. This condition, usually described as that of shock or collapse, may last only a few minutes, or hours, or even days. Indeed, the patient may only partially react, to finally die of collapse, apparently, although post-mortem examination will usually reveal extensive brain lesions. If reaction takes place, vomiting is apt to occur, the pulse regains its tone and is less frequent and irregular, the skin becomes warmer and drier, the pallor of the face disappears—giving place perhaps to a flushed countenance—while the mental hebetude is succeeded by the normal condi- tion, or by vertigo, headache, or delirium—in rare instances so violent as to require restraint.^ Reaction may be succeeded by convulsions in children, and even in adults, or either a partial or general muscular tremor is observed.^ The moment that reaction transcends a mere return to the normal state, the symptoms cease to be those of concussion—that is, the immediate effects of vibration of the intracranial contents—and at once become the expression of some damage inflicted upon the encephalon by the vibratory waves. I might proceed to describe a variety of time-honored symptoms said by authors to be due to cerebral concussion, but the reader will see that I have already detailed symptoms which are indicative of extravasation of blood, either into the substance of the brain, or upon its surface. In conclu- sion, there is no symptom, or set of symptoms, invariably present in concus- sion of the brain. The pulse may be normal, slow, or frequent, and tlie respirations may be feeble, noisy, or stertorous, although the general account wliich I have given will apply to the majority of cases. The explanation of these variable phenomena lies in tlie fact that the cerebral centres of respira- tion, or of the heart, may be compressed, irritated, or partially destroyed.^ I believe with Sir P. Ilewett, that many of the cases of concussion which have a prolonged convalescence, are in truth cases of extravasation witliiii the arachnoid sac.* I must again insist, at the risk of tediousness, that tran- sient or persistent partial paralysis, loss of memory, etc., are not due to con- cussion—-that is, to vibration of the brain-substance—but are the expression of some physical lesion of tlie cerebrum produced by that vibration. The surgeon should be aware that, after reaction from concussion, con- vulsions and various brain maladies may set in, which, although appa- rently due to the injury, are, in many cases, merely a rekindling of old disease. Thus Callender relates a number of cases where old epilepsies 1 Callender, St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. iii. pp. 416-418. * In one case of Callender’s, what were supposed to he convulsive movements of the right arm were observed. One of tlie man’s companions explained that he was only “ steering his boat such facts must he kept in mind as explaining certain peculi?,' ities of the delirium of concussion. 3 See Agnew, op. cit., vol. i. p. 278 ; also Callender, Anatomy of Brain Shocks (St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital Reports, vol. iii. p. 415, 1867) ; and Remarks on the Principal Injuries of the Head, etc., in the Hull General Infirmary (ibid. p. 234). ■* See Ilewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 602, for two conclusive cases.