142 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. Caries due to syphilis may assume one of two aspects—dry caries (so called) and ulcerating caries. The former variety has already been alluded to in speaking of osteo-periostitis. A skull, the subject of this affection, usually exhibits over a more or less extensive surface a number of holes in the outer plate. These holes are clean cut and irregular, and vary in size from that of a mere pin’s-point to that of a three-penny piece, or larger. The edges of these holes are, as a rule, very thin, and much undermined by a more extensive loss of tissue in the diploe. The internal table may be thinned and perforated in a few places. In some rare cases there is a slight formation of coarse, new bone about the carious s[>ots, and in other instances the edges of a large hole in the external table will be found rounded off, and the diploe beneath con- verted into dense compact bone, that may fairly be spoken of as an osseous cicatrix. In the recent specimen, the depressions, holes, and cavities in the bone are filled in with gummatous material. In the ulcerating form of caries, suppuration has taken place, and the disease presents the aspect of ordinary caries, except for the fact that very often the mischief so spreads as to form an annular or semi-annular outline. This tendency of the edge to become rounded is identical with a like tendency in tertiary syphilitic ulcers of the skin. This form of caries usually begins with the formation of a sub- pericranial gumma; and in cases where the internal table is first attacked, wdth a gummatous deposit between the dura mater and the bone. As com- pared with other varieties of caries, that due to syphilis is more apt to be extensive. In scrofulous or tuberculous caries, we have to deal with a true tubercular process in the bone. The affection commonly commences b}' changes in the deeper layers of the pericranium, and probably at the same time in the outer surface of the bone. The pericranium, thickened and congested, is lifted off by a collection of inflammatory material beneath it. Thus an external tumor is formed that is sometimes known as a scrofulous node, or gumma. In process of time, if this tumor be incised, a cpiantity of curdy, ill-conditioned pus will escape, and the subjacent bone be found carious. In like manner the mischief may commence on the inner aspect of the cranium. In some instances the dis- ease would appear to commence in the diploe, and when so commencing it may lead to the most typical forms of what is known as perforating tuberculosis of the skull. In this disease, the affected bone is found converted into a more or less cheesy material, and more or less extensively destroyed. The inner and outer tables are both perforated. At the seat of these perforations, the dura mater and pericranium will be found more or less separated from the sub- jacent bone by inflammatory or purulent matters. In time an external tumor forms. This, on being incised, allows of an escape of pus that has been pent up beneath the pericranium, and the nature of the affection becomes obvious.' Scrofulous caries is usually of limited extent, but some few cases are re- corded in which it has involved large portions of the skull. Mr. Ciesar Haw- kins, for example, describes a case where the right parietal bone, the right half of the occipital, the squamous and mastoid portions of the right temporal, the great wing of the sphenoid, and a large part of the frontal, were affected with scrofulous caries on both surfaces.^ The disease in this case was rapid and soon fatal. Symptoms.—The course of caries is usually slow and deliberate. In caries of the outer table., a part of the skull hecomes a little tender, and the seat 1 For a full account of Perforating Tuberculosis, see a paper by R. Volkmann, Centralblatt fiir Cliirurgie, 1880, No. 1. 2 Med.-Cbir. Trans., vol. xxxix. page 285. 1856.