DESCRIPTION OF INSTRUMENTS, ETC. 3G5 linen cord, stiffened with mucilage, or a piece of catgut, might he passed in the same way, but more convenient!}^, by means of a small catheter shaped like that used for the Eustachian tube. The ends of the cords are tied by a surgeon’s knot of three tarns, over the upper lip, or are held by an ingenious little clamp devised liy Jarvis. The operation should be performed cpiickly and skilfully, when it is fairly well tolerated by the patient. The Hhinoscopic Image.—As the mirror is passed into position behind tlie velum, the first object which attracts attention is the posterior surface of the uvula, and the next the posterior surface of the velum, a broad, reddish expanse, Avhich arches upwards so as to cut off from vieiv, in the majority of instances, more or less of the inferior portions of the nares proper, and thus partly hides the posterior extremities of the inferior turbinated bones. The septum nasi now comes into view, and as it is the most easily recognizable of all the parts, it serves as a landmark or guide for the rhinoscopic picture, as the vocal coi’ds do for that of the larynx. It is a thin, sharp ridge, whitish in color, and its sides are readily seen for some distance; aboA^e, it Avidens, be- comes of a deeper color, and merges into the parts Avhich go to make up the vault of the pharynx. To either side of it are seen dark, ovoid openings, the posterior nares, Avhich are more or less occupied by the tliree turbinated bones, bulbous bodies of a gray (u- ashy-red color. The middle one, Avith part of the middle meatus of the nose, is the most distinct. Parts only of the superior and inferior bones are visible; the former appears sinpily as a nar- row projection from the outer Avail of the nasal fossa, extending doAvnwards, inAvards, and hackAvards, to lose itself behind the middle turbinated hone; the inferior, Avhich overlaps the middle bone, and the upper portions of Avhich alone are visible, appears as a rounded, hard tumor, Avith an irregular and gray- ish colored surface. Of the meatuses of the nose, the middle is the most dis- tinct, the upper appearing only as a dark line or depression, Avhile the inferior is only occasionally seen. About the leA^el of the inferior turbinated hone, further towards the sides of the picture seen in the mirror, and upon a differ- ent plane, is seen on either side a rounded, smooth projection, of a bright- red color. This is continuous beloAv Avith tAvo sharp, elevated ridges of mucous membrane, the anterior of Avhich contains the fibres of tlie levator palati muscle, Avliich pass doAvuAvards and imvards to the dorsum of the velum, where they are finally lost. These are the pillars of tlie pharyngeal orifice of the Eustachian tube, the rounded mouth of Avhich lies hetAveen them at the point Avhere they leave the rounded protuberance above mentioned. If this latter he folloAved upAvards, hackAvards, and outAvards, it Avill lie seen to hound and define a deep groove, Avhieh lies hetAveen it and the plane of the posterior pharyngeal Avail, the fossa of Ilosenmiiller.^ If the inclination of the mirror he noAv changed to a more obtuse angle, or if use he made of one mounted at the laryngoscopic angle, the domelike cavity of the vault of the pharynx will lie In-ought into Auew. This presents an irregular outline, resembling a glandular structure upon its surface, and extends dowiiAvards toAvards each Eustachian orifice in a series of usually Fig. 916. The rhinoscopic image. * It should be horr.e in mind that Fig. 916 is necessarily somewhat diagrammatic. Fig. 917 represents the parts of the posterior nares more as in reality they appear.