901 PENETRATIXO AVOUXDS OF THE ABDOMEN. recovered irorn, is shown by the following case recorded by Sir James Macgrigor for Dr. Kennedy.^ A man employed at the Chank fishery near Manaar was bitten by a shark. The upper jaw of the animal liad been fixed in tlie left side of his belly, forming a wound of nearly a semicircular shape, of which about one incli on the left side of the umbilicus was the upper, the lower part of the upper third of the thigh the lower extremity, and an inch behind the trochanter the centre. The abdominal and lumbar muscles were divided and turned up, exposing the colon in its passage across the belly, and several convolutions of the small intestines, and laying bare three of the lowest ribs ; the gluteal muscles were lacerated and torn up; the tendons about the trochanter were divided, laying bare that bone, and the vastus externus and part of the rectus muscle of the thigh were cut across. The lower jaw of the fish had been fixed in the muscles of the right side of the abdomen, forming a segment of a circle between the umbilicus and one inch above the pubes; the teeth of this jaw had penetrated without otherwise lacerating the tissues. The measurements of the wound were 19 inches in length by between 4 and 5 in breadth. The accident had occurred three hours, and the patient had been carried first in a boat and then in a palanquin over five miles, before he was seen by Dr. Kennedy, who freed the abdomen from salt water and blood, and cleansed the wound from clotted blood and hair, closing it with straps of adhesive plaster around the body, a light dressing, and a many-tailed bandage. As the bowels had not acted for two days previously, a clyster was ordered the same evening, and was follow'ed by two actions, one immediately and the other during the night; he was bled the next day, opium was given as required, castor oil was administered from time to time, and a light, fluid diet was ordered. The opening into the abdomen had perfectly closed by the sixteenth day, the whole of the wounds granulated, and the man did well. Treatuient.—Such a case as the above should encourage the surgeon to hope even against hope in the treatment of penetrating wounds. Every attention should be given both to the local and general treatment of the patient, as if there were certainty of recovery if oidy all proper care were taken. Indeed, it should be a rule in surgery that nothing, whilst life lasts, should be treated as hopeless, whatever we may think about the result. By insisting on this principle of action, I have more tban once witnessed recovery under the most desperate circumstances, and when the disposition of the attendants was to give up the case as lost. The wound having been cleansed, bleeding ■checked, sutures inserted, and some light, elastic, and antisei)tic dressing applied, tlie patient should be placed in a comfortable position so as to relax the abdominal muscles. The sutures in all cases of penetrating wound of the abdomen should be passed from the peritoneum outwards, the whole thickness of the parietes, including the peritoneum itself, being- traversed. The general treatment consists in bleeding, by leeches on the abdomen or by venesection at the elbow, if the ]>atient be plethoric or the inflammation run high ; in the administration of low diet and the strict avoidance of solid food ; in the enforcement of absolute cpiietude, with the use of opium to relieve ]iain and check peristaltic action of the intestines ; and in the employment of enemata to clear the rectum if necessary. Benetratino Wounds with Protrusion of Uninjured Viscera.—The peculiai- arrangement in planes of the abdominal muscles, the direction of the fibres of each of which differs from that of the others, allows of the parietes being wounded to a considerable degree without }irotrusion follow- ing; yet if the wound be in a part where the aponeurotic structures prevail, a considerable prola}tse may take place through a small incision. Perhaps, however, it may be stated roughly that the degree of protrusion will be in pro})ortion to the size of the wound, and that the viscus protruded will ' .Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. ix. p. 2-K).