MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OP THE HEAD. 160 protected from pressure and injury, and such general and local symptoms as arise should be met by the usual modes of treatment. If the mass ulcerate, it may he well to destroy the more prominent parts with the actual cautery. This })rocedure would greatly lessen for a while the suppurative action, and would adtl to the comfort of the patient. Operations for the entire removal of the mass are not to be advised, for such operations would fall short of their pur- pose, unless with the tumor was excised a considerable portion of the dura mater. AVhether antiseptic surgery can render such procedui'es less fatal than they are at present, remains to be seen. These tumors have been subjected to a vast number of operations of various kinds at the hands of one surgeon and another, and certain of these so-called “modes of treatment” have been of the most horrible and reckless character. Many times have these sarcomata been incised, with in some instances a fatal hemorrhage; many times have they been ligatured, and in a still greater number of cases subjected to the action of some caustic. Of more elaborate oj)erations, the performance of Berank may well be taken as a conspicuous example. This surgeon, in an attempt to excise a fungus of the dura mater, made no less than sixteen trephine holes in a patient’s skull. The unfortunate individual lived twenty-four hours. In only three instances have operations for the removal of tumors from the dura mater proved other than rapidly fatal. The patients in these instances were operated upon respectively by Grosmann,^ recchioli,^ and Orioli and in each case a cure of the disease is said to have resulted. Intracranial Aneurism. Intracranial aneurisms are not uncommon. They are mostly situated at the base of the skull, about the circle of MTllis, and more often affect the carotid than the vertebral segment of that anastomosis. According to Quincke,® the arteiy of the fossa Sylvii is the one most frequently affected, being involved in forty per cent, of all cases. The aneurism is apt to be found at the bifurcation of any given vessel. In size these tumors are as a rule small—some are very small; the average dimensions would be from those of a pea to those of a hazel-nut. Tumors of large size, however, have been met with; thus a case of multilocular aneurism of the left posterior cerebral ai’teiy, the size of a small apple, has been reported by R. W. Smith.® Aneu- risms in this situation differ from aneurisms elsewhere in certain respects. In the first place, they do not observe the same restrictions with regal’d to age, but occur in the young with almost as much frequency as in those more advanced in life. Then again aneurisms elsewhere are—taken as a whole— of much more common occurrence in men than in women, whereas in these intracranial aneurisms, that disproportion is very much less marked. Lastly, intracranial aneurisms appear to be often independent of preceding local changes in the vessels, and are probably due in a majority of cases to embo- lism. They are indeed often found associated with endocarditis and embolic lesions of various parts, especially in the yoiu]g. In anatomical structure, moreover, they present certain peculiarities, which it is not necessary to discuss in this place. In growing they are apt to press rather upon the brain than upon the unyielding bone, although cases are recorded of absorptive destruction of some of the bony parts of the base of the skull. Their progress is most uncertain, and as a rule very slow. In three-fourths of all cases, a ' Gazette’Medicale, tome i. p. 735. 1833. ^ Stolz, Theses de Haller, tome i. p. 169. 3 Gaz. Med. 1838. ■* Bull, delle Scieiize Mediche, Maggio, 1834. ^ Ziemssen’s Cyclopedia of the Practice of Medicine, vol. vi. page 440. 1876. ® Duhliii Journal of Medical Science, vol. xxv.