828 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. single; that it was without exception situated on the front of the trunk, below and within the ordinary nipple, and more frequently on the left side than on the right. (5) That the distances of the supernumerary nipples from the ordinary nipples are very various, and from the measurement of these distances a series of numbers may be attained which may possibly suggest the unit of distance between the successive pairs of nipples in the original type. (G) That a supernumerary nipple, though frequently well marked, is more frequently small or deficient in one or more of its elements—papilla, areola, fol- licles, or hairs. (7) That in no case was the supernumerary organ physiologically active, but that in a few cases supernumerary glands appeared to be present (in single women). (8) That inheritance was not traced in any instance. (9) That in more than one instance the anterior abdominal wall was the seat of the abnormality. It would appear, then, that these supernumerary organs are rarely function- ally useful or active, hut exist as simple rudimentary appendages. Should a supernumerary mamma or nipple be causing deformity or inconvenience, its excision would be justifiable, but otherwise interference in such cases can rarely be necessary. Congenital Absence of Mamm.®.—A few cases are on record in which one breast, usually the right one, has been entirely absent. In these cases there has been, in addition to the absence of the breast, more or less deficiency of the chest-wall on the corresponding side. In one case described by Froriep, the greater part of the pectoralis major muscle was absent, and the third and fourth ribs were deficient at their sternal ends.^ Functional and Sympathetic Conditions of the Mamm^. Physiologically, it may be said that the fimction of these organs is to secrete milk in order to furnish nourishment for the infant, but as the secretion of milk occasionally takes place under other circumstances, it may be well to remember the observations of Goodsir,^ who has pointed out that the functional activity of a gland is identical with the original development of the gland in the embryo. CreightoiP also remarks “ that the continuous and useful pro- duction of milk, which alone constitutes the function from the physiologist’s point of view, is not the essential or primary activity of the organ, but a mere prolongation of its evolutional force at its highest point.” Dr. Mont- gomery, in his wGrk on the Signs and Symptoms of Pregnancy, refers to cases in which milk has been secreted in the mammae of young girls, and there are a few rare cases on record in which old women and even men have had a secretion of milk from their breasts.^ To the surgeon, lactation is principally of interest in connection with the fact that during its progress excessive action may lead to inflammation of the gland or tissues round it, and also with the fact that any obstruction to the passage of the milk along the ducts may lead to tension and inflammation, or to the formation of lacteal or other cysts. The influence that lactation or its consecpiences has upon the pathology of the morbid growths affecting the breasts, is likewise well worthy of careful study and consideration. It may be well here to note the fact that experience has shown that operations of any magnitude are best avoided, unless there be special ui’gency, when the breasts are in an excited condition, as during lac- tation, pregnancy, or menstruation.® In the infant the mammae are surgically 1 For a detailed and interesting account of this case, see Froriep’s Neue Notizen, Bd. x. April, 1839. In vol. xxiii. of the same work, another interesting case is described hj Dr. F. Reid. 2 Op. cit. ® Op. cit. ‘ Med. Times and Gazette, 1856 ; Lancet, 1857 ; Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Review, vol. ii. 1852. * Paget, Clinical Lectures and Essays ; Smith, Braithwaite’s Retrospect, 1876.