716 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. thumb and forefinger along each side of the trachea, and the incision is then made from above downward. The preliminary incision must be strictly in the middle line, as must be all subsequent incisions. If the hand is not to be tnisted, this line of incision should be marked out with pencil or with ink. It should extend from the cricoid cartilage to within a third of an inch of the sternum, and will vary in length with tlie size of the patient and the swelling of the parts, from an inch and a cpiarter to two inches. In spare subjects one inch will often suffice. It is highly important that all subse- quent incisions be made in the middle line likewise. For this reason the traction kept up on the soft parts should be slight, and equal on the two sides. In certain cases of external tumor, the incisions may have to be more or less to one side. Any wounded arteries having been secured, if necessary, the operator can expeditiously reach the trachea after the following manner, essentially as recommended by Langenbeck : With sharp-toothed forceps he seizes the connective tissue on one side of the middle line, w^hile his assistant does the same thing on the other side. The two then raise the fold of fascia and the operator divides it with knife or scissors. Scissors are very useful for the purpose. In this way fold after fold is severed, large vessels being pushed aside or divided between double ligatures. Both ends of such liga- tures should be cut oft" close, lest they should become detached during the fur- ther progress of the operation. The grooved director is preferred by many to forceps as a guide in dividing the layers of fascia. When the pairs of sterno- thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles are reached, they must be carefully sepa- rated, and with as little use of the knife-blade as possible. This having been accomplished, the upper portion of the trachea is exposed, and is usually readily recognizable by its glistening surface. The isthmus of the thyroid gland, according to its size, covers more or less of this portion of the trachea. If the high incision is to be made, that structure is pulled downward. If the low incision is to be made, it is pushed upward. When these manipulations are insufficient, two strong threads are to be drawn tightly about it, on either side, so that it can be safely divided between them. This precaution is deemed superfiuous by some operators, yet copious bleeding is not uncommon when tlie gland is cut through with- out it, and even when it is lacerated by tearing it apart. The field of ope- ration is cleansed of blood from time to time in the usual manner. When necessary, the soft parts are kept asunder by blunt hooks on either side. The trachea having been exposed and fully recognized by its anatomical construc- tion, should be freed anteriorly of its enveloping fascia for a space comprising rather more than that to be subjected to incision, and for a line or more in widtli, in order to avoid all risk of emphysema of the connective tissue by escape of air at the tracheal orifice. This may be done by scraping it with some blunt instrument or even with the blade of the knife. As soon as all bleeding is under control, and sooner if imperatively requisite to avert immi- nent danger of immediate suftbcation, the trachea is to be divided for the space of three or four rings, by thrusting a bistoury vertically into its interior through an inter-cartilaginous space at the median line, and cutting from below upward, a procedure much more prudent than cutting from above ’ downward. Should there be any difficulty in steadying the trachea, it ma}^ be held upward by a tenaculum thrust beneath the cricoid cartilage or one of the upper rings. Occasionally strong scissors, or even a saw, may be required to divide stoutly ossified cartilages. As soon as the trachea is penetrated, air escapes with a peculiar hiss, and blood and mucus are expelled by cough as the incision is completed. Sometimes the tracheal mucous membrane is so vascular that the hemorrhage is quite free. The operator now places a fore- finger over the artificial opening, insinuating the finger nail into the incision.