145 DISEASES OF THE SKULL, ETC. instances, the destruction will be found equal on the two surfaces. Cases oc- casionally occur in which the whole thickness of the skull is lost at one place, and one table only at another. The necrosis is usually limited in extent. When the outer table alone is involved, the disease usually takes the form of exfoliation of bone, and sometimes the i»ieces of hone thus separated are so small as to be almost imperceptible. This is common after scalp wounds associated with a considerable surface of bared bone. Many cases are, how- ever, recorded of very extensive necrosis. One of the most frequently quoted cases of extensive disease is the case given by Saviard, wliere the whole vault of the skull became necrosed subsequent to an injury to the head. As this case is one of great importance and interest, I quote in full Saviard’s account of the patient:— “ Une pauvre malheureuse sortit de I’Hotel Dieu au inois d’Oct. lG88,apres avoir ete malade pendant plus de deux ans, en suite d’une [daye a la tete qu’elle s’etait faite en tombant, pour avoir bn du vin avec exces. La partie superieure de I’os coronal, les deux parietaux entiers et une grande portion de I’os occipital s’etant decouvert dans la suite du traitement, s’exfolierent dans toute leur epaisseur et se separerent en meme temps : de sorte que cette exfoliation resemblait au dessus d’une tete que I’on aurait sciee et separee du reste du crane. L’on vo'ioit, a I’endroit d’ou ces os etaient sortes, le battement de la dure-mere qui n’etait convert que d’une pellicule fort amince.”^ Xorris^ gives a case in which considerable portions of the parietal and tem- poral bones were lost, together with a great part of the frontal and occipital bones. The disease followed upon a fall on the head. A somewhat similar case is recorded by Drummond,^ wdiei’C an equally extensive necrosis followed upon a scalp wound. South^ describes the case of a woman, tvho, in nine years, lost the greater part of both parietals, and some parts of the temporal, parietal, and occipital bones, from a necrosis that was supposed to be of syphilitic origin. The mode of separation of the sequestrum is the game as that observed in necrosis elsewhere, and indeed the only pathological feature special to skull necrosis is the absence of any new bone formation. There is no invagination of the dead piece of bone, and no fresh osseous production formed to till up the deficiency caused by its removal. If the external table alone separates, granu- lations spring up from the exposed, subjacent bone; these form a fibrous tissue which—with assistance from the pericranium—fills up the defect on the surface. If the whole tliickness of a skull bone be involved in the seques- trum, granulations spring up from the adjacent bone, from the }»ericranium, and from the dura mater, and together form a mass of tilirous tissue that more or less perfectly fills up the void. The rough edges aliout the gap become rounded off and shelving, hut beyond this sliow no reparative changes. In some cases of syphilitic disease, however, a slight amount of new bone may be formed around the sequestrum, so as to retain it as a watch- glass is retained, or, in the absence of such a definite formation, feeble growths of porous bone may be sometimes oljserved on the outer talile in the vicinity of the necrosis, and such deposits often assume an annular outline.® It is important to note that necrosis is not limited fjy sutures, and, indeed, often involves the contiguous parts of frwo or more liones at the same time. In the matter of symptovis and diagnosis^ nothing need be added to the ■ Reoueil d’Observ. Cliirurg., p. 83G. 1762. 2 Trans. Med. Soc. Loud., vol. i. p. 168. 1810. Skull in Museum of Royal College of Surgeons. * Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiv. p. 103. 18.51. A wax model of the patient’s head is pre- served at the Hadlar Hospital,'at Portsmouth. ’ Chelius’s Surgery, ed. by South, vol. i. p. 699. 1847. ^ Cornil et Ranvier, Manuel d’llistologie Pathologique, p. 405. 1881. VOL. V.—10