993 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES. tine through aii opening.on the right side of the second part of the duodenum. Langstaff relates the case of a inatl-nian who after swallowing a silver table- spoon began to suffer from dyspepsia, frequent and acute pain in the region of the ctecum and colon, diarrhoea, and the frequent discharge per aruim of blood and pus. Ascites and other symptoms of diseased liver came on, and he was tapped ; after this the spoon, Avhich the patient had often said he could feel moving about, was detected in the situation of hlie ceecum through the abdominal parietes, but no attempt was made to remove it by enterotomy. The man died about twenty months after the tapping, and at the post-mortem examination the mucous membrane of the stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, and csecum, presented evident marks of ulceration at different points. The greatest mischief had been inflicted by the passage of the spoon through the ileo-ctecal orifice, which was much dilated ; and the mucous membrane of the ceecum was nearly destroyed by ulceration. The spoon was found at this part, with the bowl downwards, liaving formed a large pouch which had checked its further progress. The preparation is in the Hunterian Museum. Foreign bodies in the appendix verniiforniis are by no means rare. Poland mentions the case of a girl, aged twelve, who after a few days of general weakness and loss of appetite was found dead in bed. There were extensive puriform peritonitis, and ulceration of the vermiform process, in which was found a small, leaden, foreign body making its way through. Pr. Peacock described at the London Medical Society tlie case of a clergyman, who, after symptoms simulating hernia, had an aliscess form in the right iliac region, from which a cherry-stone came away. He died subsequently of some other disease. Some years ago I saw, in the practice of my father, a jmung lady aged eighteen suffering from the most intense peritonitis, ivitli symptoms sugges- tive of intestinal obstruction; she died, and on examination a damson-stone was found in the appendix cieci, the extremity of which Avas destroyed. Foreign bodies other than those SAvallowed are at times found in the appendix, such as biliary concretions, and small, hardened masses of feces. All these cases for the most part end fatalljq from acute suppui-ativc perito- nitis set up by ulceration and perforation of tlie coats of the a[q»endix. Foreign bodies are not often lodged in the large bowels tliough they occasionally become impacted Avhen introduced through the anus. There are, hoAvever, three conditions under which a foreign body Avhich has }>assed through the length of the alimentary canal may become retained in the colon, sigmoid flexure, or rectum ; these are (1) when solid fecal matter is dei»osited around the foreign body; (2) when owing to its shape, the foreign body sticks into the wall of the gut, or becomes fixed across its lumen ; and (3) when any constriction of the bowel exists, Avhether this be due to some form of stricture, or to adhesions, adventitious liands, pressure of a tumor, or other cause. Mr. Clement,' of SheAvsbury, has recorded a case in point;— A lady wlio for fourteen days bad suffered from complete constipation and the symp- toms usually attendant on strangulated hernia, had her colon opened in the right loin. After recovery from the operation, a mass consisting of five plum-stones, agglutinated together, was shot out through the artificial anus. Subsequently, and at intervals, other plum-stones were discharged, until the total number amounted to 116. She died three years after the operation, and there was found at tlie junction of the ascending and transverse colon a most rigid stricture—^not (pute a quarter of an inch wide, perfectly smooth, and of pearly whiteness—looking just as if a jiieceof whipcord had been lirmly tied around tins part of the intestine. The stricture was of cartilaginous hardness, and the occlusion so complete that not even a bristle could be passed through it. * Med.-Cbir. Trans., vol. xxxv. VOL. V.—G3