429 TUMORS OF THE NOSE. I. Operations through the Mouth.—Of ancient origin, this naethod was revived by Maune, and still more recently by Nelatond It consists in exposing the polypus, either through an incision in the median line of the soft palate, dividing it completely or extending only to the base of the uvula, or by combining this incision with exsection of part or all of the hard palate. Masse^ quotes twenty-six cases, in thirteen of winch the results were favorable. II. Operations thy'ough the Face.—This method embraces resections of some one or more of the bones of the face. The resection may be temporary or permanent; in the former case, the excised portion of the bone is replaced, after the extirpation of the tumor. This operation receives the specific name of “ osteo- plastic resection.” The facial methods of operating, then, embrace 1st, Exci- sion, partial or total, of the upper jaw; and 2d, Various osteo-plastic operations. Total excision of the upper jaw was first advised for this purpose by Whateley, and practised, unsuccessfully, by Syine® in 1832, by Elaubert in 1840,^ by Verneuil® in 1860, and since that date by Michaux and many other operators.® Partial excision of the upper jaw., for the removal of naso-pharyngeal poly- pus, was first performed by INIaisonneuve^ in 1860, and since that date has been repeated by many operators. It is the operation commonly selected. Osteo-plastic Operations.—Those best known are five in number, viz., the two methods devised by Langenbeck,® and those of Iluguier,® Ronx,’® and Cheever.^‘ Full details as to the necessary procedures Avill be found in the monograph of Sands. This surgeon sums up the respective merits and relative value of all of these preliminary operations for the extirpation of naso-phaiyngeal polypi, as follows (I take the liberty of condensing his remarks slightly);— _ Operations through the mouth have the advantage of avoiding mutilation of the face, the features being left mi touched. ISlor can it be denied that such operations have sometimes been done with gratifying success. If the pedicle be narrow, and the situation of attachment central, it may be dealt with thoroughly after simple section of the soft palate, and, its attachment having been destroyed, the wound in the palate may be closed at once by sutures, with every probability of securing primary union. But it must be confessed that the operation can rarely be conducted in the manner described, and the published cases prove that it has generally been found impracticable to destroy the pedicle so completely as to warrant the immediate closure of the wound in the soft palate. Accordingly, it is the practice of many surgeons to leave the wound open until the pedicle has been removed by some suVi- sequent procedure, and afterwards to restore the palate by staphyloraphy. These facts alone prove that the method now under consideration does not afford the space requisite for the removal of a tumor having extensive attach- ments, and that in this respect it must l)e rejected as defective; moreover, it is by no means easy to destroy the pedicle afterwards, and for similar reasons. The actual cautery and various caustic applications have been enqiloyed for this purpose. In many instances, the pedicle has continued to increase in size, in spite of treatment, and the surgeon has been finally driven to the alternative of excision of the jaw to gain the desired end. Fatal results have more frequently followed operations through the mouth than tliose of appa- rently greater magnitude, so that the former operations cannot, as a rule, be ' Hull, de la Soc. de Cliir., tome i. p. 159. ** Op. cit. ® Edinburgh Med. Jour., vol. xxxviii. p. 322. ■> Schmidt’s Jahrbucher, Bd. xxx. S. 63. ^ Mem. de la Soc. de Chir. Paris, 1860. ® See Masse (op. cit.), for details. ^ (iaz. des Hup. 1860. ® Deutscli. Klinik, S. 281. 1861 ; and Schmidt’s .Tahrb. Bd. cxii. S. 195. ® Bull, de I’Acad. de Med., p. 783. 1860; and Oaz. des Hop., p. 337. 1861. Oaz. des Hop., p. 354. 1861. “ Med. and Surg. Reports of the Boston City Hospital, p. 156. 1870.