245 CATARACT. ‘ See Fig. 859, page 199, supra. divided transversely to a short distance. Then the needle, being slightly retracted, may be advanced so as to make a second incision in the capsule, at right angles to the first. In that way, the elastic capsule being incised crucially, the points retract and leave a small portion of the lens exposed Fig. 862. Fig. 863. Bowman’s stop-needles, curved and straight. to the contact of the aqueous. The lens imbibes the humor, swells, breaks down slowly, and at last is dissolved by the aqueous, leaving a clear pupil where the capsule was opened. Usually the rent closes, after a few weeks or months, and the solution ceases. Then the manoeuvre must he repeated till the pupil is free from obstruction. The needling process may need to be repeated several times, and the restoration to sight can only be expected in the course of many weeks or even months. It must be remembered that the intra-capsular cells always swell, multiply, and produce a thickening of the capsule around the rent, as the lens sub- stance itself dissolves. A gi’ayish-white opacity will be seen in the capsule, and, in case the rent closes, it will be found much tougher at the second and third punctures, than at the first. Indeed, it will often be found necessary to use two needles, in order to tear it sufliciently, introducing one inwards and the other outwards, passing them through the tough membrane at the same place, and then separating their points Ijy suitable movements of the handles. If the first incision be too large, and the lens swell rapidly, pressing against the iris and giving rise to acute plastic iritis, with perhaps glaucomatous hardness of the eyeball, an incision must be made in the cornea with a spear-knife, and the softened lens must be extracted. It will readily come out with the aqueous, assisted by a spoon. For a few days or even weeks after a needle operation, the patient must be kept quiet in a moderately darkened room, for fear of dangerous reaction. If pain, tenderness to light, weeping, and ciliary injection come on, cold appli- cations, and the energetic use of atropine, are tlie best remedies. In all cases, the eye must be daily tested as to tension. If that becomes excessive, repeated paracentesis must be employed, and, if need be, a linear extraction of tlie soft and swollen lens. The pupil must be kept well dilated during the whole course of treatment, so as to withdraw tlie iris from contact with the swelling lens. Traumatic cataract, in young subjects, may be treated in the manner above described, but if a foreign body be lodged in tlie eye, the danger of the opera- tion is greatly increased. Should the foreign body be seen in the lens, they may both be extracted together liy a linear, corneal incision. In lamellar and polar cataracts, the vision, if possible, should lie improved by a small iridec- tomy, which is almost free from danger. If dilatation of the pupil improves the sight materially, a well-executed, small iridectomy will lielp still more. As these cases are partial and stationary, if reading vision can be secured, it is vastly safer and surer than a cataract operation, in which the danger of excessive swelling is very great. If the entire lens is li<[uid, a broad needle* may be used to puncture the capsule. Before being witlidrawn it should be slightly rotated, and the fluid lens allowed to escape with the aqueous. A grooved needle (Fig. 864) may also be employed. In older subjects, where the nucleus is a little firmer, but not hard, a