INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 858 may burst into the bowel, the lung, the pelvis of the kidney, or the peritoneum, if it be not opened through the loin. Owing to the firm connection of the subcutaneous areolar tissue to the spinous processes of the vertebrae, it is seldom that pus burrows across from one side to the other of the median line in the liack. Abscesses in the epi- gastric region have a tendency to spread, but rarely penetrate the peritoneum, on account of the strong tendinous aponeurosis which prevents them from doing so. In the umbilical region, if in front of the rectus but within its sheath, the intersections of the muscle and their connections with the sheath prevent pus from spreading upwards or downwards; but when behind the rectus, though within the sheath, it can spread upwards or downwards to a great extent; when outside the sheath and on its deep aspect, it can diffuse itself in all directions ; and if beneath the fascia transversalis, it may burst into the peritoneum. In the hypogastrium, subcutaneous abscesses remain for a long time circumscribed, but after a time become diffused if left unopened. Deep abscesses in this situation are dangei’ous in their consequences, and slow in their course, as a rule. In the iliac regions, besides those already alluded to, abscesses the result of pelvic cellulitis are pi’one to open. The superficial abscesses in these situations simulate buboes, and are often wrong- fully attributed to venereal causes. Symptoms.—Though the symptoms are, as a rule, acute, and such as char- acterize acute abscess in other parts, they are sometimes insidious in their onset, slow in their progress, and but little marked even for several weeks. In the acute form the onset is sudden, with vomiting, severe local pain, rigors preceding febrile action, full pulse, flushed countenance, thickly-coated tongue, severe headache, and perhaps the general symptoms of fever.^ For a few days these symptoms may be accompanied by delirium, and the local pain increases, without, however, any general abdominal hardness or tenderness; at length the seat of the abscess becomes more evident by red- ness and oedema of the skin, brawny hardness, and acute tenderness, and within a few days more an obscure softness, but no distinct fluctuation, will be detected. A free incision will now let out several ounces of laudable pus, and from this time all the symptoms will subside, and the patient rapidly recover. If the abscess be deeply seated, the pain may be very widely dif- fused over the abdomen, and the case for a time is likely to be mistaken for one of acute peritonitis; and it must never be forgotten that these abscesses are liable to set up peritonitis, and even to burst into the peritoneal cavity. When due to an injury, such as a strain or blow, the symptoms may set in at once, or not until several days or even a fortnight afterwards, when violent pain in the part, accompanied by all the severe, constitutional symptoms of acute abscess, appear suddenly. These features were well exemplified in the ease of a healthy girl, aged fifteen, who fell from a ladder, striking the right side of the abdomen; this caused her pain for a day or two, but she thought no more of it until a fortniglit later, when she became acutely ill; peritonitis after a while supervened, and death from hectic occurred at the end of seven weeks from the date of the injury. A post-mortem examination revealed a large abscess on the right side of the abdomen, between the external and in- ternal oblique muscles, about three inches in diameter; pus had diffused itself through two holes in the internal oblique aud transversalis muscles, outside the peritoneum, under the right false ribs; here it had penetrated the peri- toneum, and had formed two ulcerated holes in the liver; circumscribed pus was also found on the lesser omentum.^ In the chronic form, if the eftused inflammatory products are deeply seated ' See Lancet, vol. xi. p. 367 ; case under care of Sir William Lawrence. 2 Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. ii. p. 129.