34 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. basal fissures are seldom widely separated. The only symptoms,^ therefore, upon which we can rely, are the escape of blood, Muatery fluid, or brain-sub- stance, by some one of the natural passages, and the detection of injury done to the cranial nerves as they emerge from the skull. Blood may escape by the nose, from the ears, or from the pharynx. When coming from the nose or pharynx, portions are swallowed, which are often ejected by vomiting. I have seen blood, however, welling up into the pharynx, whence it issued by the mouth and nose, in a steady though small stream. The blood may also escape into the cellular tissue of the orbit and eyelids, into that of the mastoid region, or into that of the back of the head. Orbital Ecchymosis.—Coming from the back of the orbit, tbe blood usually first shows itself beneath the ocular conjunctiva, where it may accumulate until it forms a brownish-red, much-elevated margin around the apparently deeply-sunken cornea.^ According to Ilewett, the ecchymosis subsequently spreads to the lids. Velpeau thought that the ecchymosis of the lower lid alone was a sign of basal fracture; but this sym])tom is of no special value without extensive subconjunctival and orbital effusion, although the lower lid usually becomes discolored before the upper. U}ion the other hand, frac- ture of the anterior portion of the base may exist without ocular ecchymosis, or the lids alone may become discolored. jMarked subconjunctival hemorrhage, coexisting with orbital and palpebral effusion, is then a fairly reliable symptom of fracture of the anterior basal region, if we except those rare cases which have been reported by Holmes, where fractures of the malar or of tlie superior maxillary bones, produced both ocular and palpebral ecchymosis.^ But the total absence of these symptoms cannot exclude a basal fracture. Thus, of twenty-three cases of fracture of the orbital plates of the frontal bone, in eight cases there were no traces of extravasated blood, in either the eyelids or beneath the ocular conjunctiva, while in five cases the lids were alone dis- colored. In the ten remaining eases, blood was extravasated both beneath the ocular conjunctiva and into the lids.^ It will be thus seen that when these symptoms are present they are valuable aids to diagnosis, but that their absence is not conclusive in the other direction. Injuries to the arteries at the back of the orbit have resulted in traumatic aneurisms, which often ultimately demand surgical interference.® Hemorrhage from the Nose and Pharynx.—-Epistaxis, from the vascular nature of the Schneiderian membrane, is a common symptom in head injuries, and can only be of any diagnostic value when persistent, and when accom- panying symptoms of grave cerebral concussion. In fourteen cases out of thirty-two, where central basal fractures occurred, bleeding from the moutli or nose, or subsequent vomiting of blood, occurred. Out of the fourteen cases in which this symptom was noted, in four the ethmoid alone was involved; in three, the body of the sphenoid; and in one, the ethmoid, sphenoid, and basilar process of the occipital bone were all implicated. (Ilewett.) • Le Gros Clark reports a case of basal fracture, with marked cerebral laceration, in which the temperature was depressed, being 87.4° F. one and a half hours after the injury, and only reaching 90° F. nine hours subsequently. (Gant’s Science and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 162.) Mr. Hulke has reported, in the Lancet for 1877, a series of cases in which, the patients living for some days, an excessively high temperature was developed, without any coarse post- mortem evidence of inflammation being found. In all, however, there was extensive shattering and bruising of bone. * Maslieuret Lagemard first called attention to this subconjunctival ecchymosis. » British Medical Journal, 1855. Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 589. 5 Morton, Am. Journ. Med. Sc., vol. lx. 1870, pp. 43 and 45 ; Harlan, ibid., p. 47.