846 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. of tliG breast, both within two weeks; the daughter was nursing when the disease first showed itself, and in lier case its progress was much more rapid than in the case of lier mother, and further, the disease returned in the daughter’s breast much earlier than in the mother’s. During the pi'ogress of the disease, changes may take place in the tumor itself, and the cancer sooner or later involves the surrounding textures, and affects the lymphatic glands and perhaps the internal organs. The changes which affect the substance of a cancer of the breast are those met with in all cancers, and consist of fatty and granular degeneration of the cells, cystoid degeneration, occasionally calcareous degeneration, inflammation, ulceration, suppuration, sloughing, and fungation. In addition to these, a scirrhous cancer may undergo atrophy, or shrink, as will be more particularly referred to in the considera- tion of this form of the disease. In the progress of cancer of the breast, the lymphatic glands in the axilla and' cervical region become sooner or later affected, in the majorit}' of cases ; the surrounding skin may at any time become affected with cancer, either in the form of nodular deposits, or, more rarely, a flat, hard thickening of its substance. Adhesion, discoloration, thinning, and ulceration or sloughing of this same tissue, are also not uncommon, and less frequently the muscles become infiltrated with cancer, wliile in rare instances the other breast may become involved. (Plate XXXII.) Certain of the internal organs and struc- tures are liable to become the seat of secondary growths, and among the chief of these are the lungs, liver, and pleura. From an interesting series of 128 post-mortem examinations of cases of cancer of the breast, collected by Gross, we note that the axillary glands were affected in 89.4 per cent., Other glands in Pleura Lung . Liver . 23.43 per cent. 23.43 “ 21.87 “ 42.96 “ Xunn also gives a table of 21 post-mortem examinations of cases of cancer of the breast, which likewise shows the frequency with which the liver, lungs, and pleura become involved. Alore rarely the stomach, ovaries, kidneys, bones, brain, and occasional]}^ other internal organs or tissues, are affected. The effect of operative interference on the progress of cancer of the breast may be here briefly noticed. Experience proves that operative treatment, when the entire disease can be removed, tends to prolong life, and that even in acute cases of the disease an operation may for a time, although it may be for only a very short time, check its progress. Although therefore the removal of a cancerous breast cannot be considered a very satisfactory proceeding as regards its results in curing the disease, there is sufficient testimony to encourage a resort to the operation in properly selected cases ; and most sur- geons can, amongst many failures, record instances in which patients have remained free from a return of the disease for tive, ten, or more years. It must also be remembered that the removal of a cancerous breast will fre- quently take away, at least for a time, a painful and weakening complaint, and will do much to relieve the sad mental distress ivhich such a disease produces. Scirrhous Cancer.^—Varieties of this form of cancer have been described under the terms “simple carcinoma,” “flbroso-medullary cancer,” and “ atrophic” or “ chronic cancer.” These varieties are merely the result of differences in the amount of cells and stroma in the tumor, or of degene- ration of the cell-element, with contraction of the stroma in which the cells are imbedded. These variations lead to certain differences in the