( 573 ) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. BY GEORGE H. B. MACLEOD, M.D, F.R.C.S. and F.R.S. Edin., SENIOR SURGEON TO, AND LECTURER ON CLINICAL SURGERY AT, THE WESTERN INFIRMARY ; REGIUS PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW ; SURGEON IN ORDINARY TO H. M. THE QUEEN, IN SCOTLAND. Surgical Anatomy of the Keck. The many important structures which exist in the neck give great surgical interest to its atiections. It is true that there are tew organs which exclusively belong to this region. The most important structures merely pass througli it from the head to the trunk. From the vertebral column with the spinal cord behind, to the windpipe in front, there are a vast number of ditferent tissues packed into the small compass which is included under the term “ neck.” It is this condiination of important bloodvessels and nerves, air and food passages, muscles, lymphatic and other glands, cellular tissue and fascia, which gives special interest to the surgical maladies of this region. The spinal cord, behind, is well protected by its bony case, hut in front and on the sides of the neck, lie structures of the greatest importance and delicacy, which are liable to injury by accident or design. The neck varies considerably in ditferent persons, in lioth shape and length. This is mostly due to original conformation and development, but its appear- ance alters in no small degree, in the same person, with age, state of health, and obesity. Fat tills the hollows in females and in children more than in most adult males, so that the landmarks which detine the relations of parts are in them more obscured. Among males, again, the cartilages and muscles have more prominence in some than in others. Persons with high shoulders appear to have unnaturally short necks; and the surgeon may by position so stretch the anterior and lateral surfaces as not only to render them more tense, and thus better prepared for an operation, but also to elongate tlie paid to a consideralde degree. The great moliility and rapid movements of the head, and the quickness with which the shoulder is raised on a menace of danger, so conceal the neck as to prove a powerful protection to its structures. It is unnecessary here to dwell in any detail on the different divisions or regions of the neck which are recognized by anatomists. Suffice it to say that its boundaries are, superiorly, the line of the lower jaw, the mastoid pro- cess, and the superior occipital line to the external occipital protuberance. Interiorly, a line from the centre of the sternum, passing along the clavicle by the acromion, to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra heliind. Anteriorly, the middle line of the neck, and posteriorly, the centre line from the occipital protuberance to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertelira, complete the definition of either side. A lateral view, when the parts are put on the stretch by turning the head to the opposite side, is somewhat quadrilateral, and, being divided diagonally by the sterno-mastoid,