MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD, 156 grow into that cavity, and cause protrusion or destruction of the globe ; or in like manner they may invade, to some extent, the cavity of the nose or pharynx. The exostoses are readily recognized b}" their bony hardness, harmless character, extremely slow growth, and absolute fixity. The exist- ence of enostoses can merely be suspected, and then only in cases where brain symptoms have been produced. In confirming sucb a suspicion, the points of most value would be a history of syphilis or of previous injury, the discoveiy of exostoses on the surface, and a knowledge of the doctrines of cerebral localization. Treatment.—As exostoses are innocent, and seldom cause even mechanical inconvenience, they should be let alone. If any external tumor is large enough to cause mechanical ti-ouble, it will also be too large to remove. If Avith an exostosis one has reason, from localized brain mischief, to suspect a corresponding enostosis, the part may be trephined if tlie mass be small; or, in any case—especially cases Avith a history of distinct previous injury—Avhere the cerebi-al disturbance is thoroughly Avell localized, the skull may be tre- ]ihined for suspected enostosis. Many external tumors, some of great size, have been removed from the skull in past times; but such operations must be regarded rather as relics of the barbarian age of surgery. The accounts of some of these proceedings Avith hammer, chisel, and saAV, are fearful to read.* In all cases with a history of sy})hilis, appropriate treatment should be adopted. Fungus of the Dura Mater. This term is applied to certain tumors AAdiich, springing from the dura mater, in time perforate the skull and appear externally beneath the scalp. Pathology.—IMany tumors of A^arious kinds may have their origin in the dura mate]’, but it is only aA^ery small segment of them that ev^er make their Avay throngli the cranial bones. There are; for example, fibrous, fatty, and osseous tumors of the dura mater.^ These never perforate the skull. On the other hand, groAvths arising from other ]Aarts Avithin the cranial cavity, besides tbe dura mater, may under certain circumstances penetrate tbe lione and appear superficially. Thus, sarcomatous groAvths from the arachnoid may perforate the skull, and Lancereaux^ cites a case of “ lipoma” of the pia mater, in Avhich the intracranial tumor Avas continuous through a deficiency in the skull Avith a like tumor beneath the scalp. It is probable that this particular groAvth was congenital. Carcinoma of the brain also may project externally after having made a hole in the bones that cover it.* The same may possibly be said of some sarcomata of the brain, and of malignant and sarcomatous groAvths from the pia mater. All these examples, hoAvever, of perforating tumor are ex- tremely rare. It is indeed quite the exception for groAvths from the brain or softer meninges to penetrate the bone, and thus it happens that in nearly all instances of such perforation the tumor has its origin from the dura mater. Fungus of the dura mater may occur either as a primary, or as a secondary tumor. In the latter instance it is due to metastasis in connection Avitli a like groAvth or groAvths elseAvhere. In some fcAV instances the groAvth may ' In some of these cases the dura mater was freely exposed ; in other instances the surgeon hammered at the patient’s skull for three or four hours at a sitting, and applied the trej)hine some six or eight times. 2 See for examples, Path. Soc. Trans., vol. vii. p. 1 ; vol. viii. p. 13 ; vol. x. p. 10. Lancet, vol. i. 1872, p. 147; vol. ii. 1873, pp. 660, 837, etc. ^ Traite d’Anatomie Pathologique, tome ii. premiere partie, p. 448. Paris, 1879. < Ball et Krishaber, Diet. Encyl. des Sc. Med., Art. Cerveau (Pathologic), p. 439. 1879 ; Malespiue, Thfese de Paris, No. 14, 1846.