INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1000 flocculent lymph, while above, the wall of the abscess formed a complete partition between its cavity and the intestines. No foreign substance was found in the pus. A drainage- tube was kept in the abscess for a time. The patient made a good recovery. 2. Diffused Abscess of the Peritoneum.—As distinct from the circumscribed peritoneal abscesses just described, thongli sometimes associated with them, there is a form of suppurative peritonitis in which the tvliole of the peritoneum is involved, and in which, therefore, the abscess-cavity and the peritoneal cavity are one and the same. Causes.—The cause of the suppuration is generally obscure, and certainly by no means always due to tubercular disease of the peritoneum. It has been known to follow typhoid and recurrent fever, chicken-pox, and exposure to damp and cold; and, again, it has come on without any known cause. It has sometimes been associated with suppurating mesenteric lymphatic glands; and in a case of suppurative peritonitis, in a man aged 31, upon whom I per- formed laparotomy in the middle line, I believe this to have been the cause of the disease. It is probable that the immediate cause (d‘ this form of exu- dative peritonitis is frecpicntly a tlirombus. Symptoms.—After a peiiod of perhaps severe lint ill-detined illness, Avith symptoms suggestive of same abdominal disease, the alidomen Avill become irregularly SAVollen, of peculiar shape, and bulging prominently in the um- bilical, hypogastric, or epigastric region, or on one side of the middle line, and towards the lumbar or iliac region. There Avill be dulness on percussion and tenderness on pressure, and subsequently a thrill Avill be detected in the prominent part. The temperature Avill vaiy, and will l)e generally found to rise to 101-103° F. in the afternoon or cA^ening. Possibly the symptoms Avill have been ushered in Avith shivering and vomiting. There may then be the appear- ance of an abscess forming in the abdominal parietes, Avhich may burst spon- taneously; or, Avhat is more likely, fluid Avill be suspected, an aspirating needle Avill be inti-oduced, and some, and possibly \ery fetid, pus Avill escape. If the pus is spontaneously discharged, it Avill most likely be at the um- bilicus, and a fistulous opening Avill be left, through Avliich a probe can be introduced into the general cavity- of the peritoneum, and can be moved freely in every direction. Course and Prognosis.—The chief danger in these cases is probably the lia- bility of some of the pus becoming encysted betAveen the diaphragm and liver, or diaphragm and sjfleen, and then taking the course of sub-diaphrag- matic abscess—namely, perforating the diaphragm, and leading to death from empyema or suppuration in the lung. Or the pus may become encysted, and subsequently break into the bladder or rectum, and cause death by hectic or exhaustion; or a number of encysted collections of pus may be formed, separate and distinct from one another. Dr. Goodbart,' to. Avhom I am indebted for the narrative of three typical cases of ditfused peritoneal abscess in children, had tAvo recoveries and one death. One of the patients Avho recovered, Avas a girl, aged eleven, in Avhom an abscess burst at the umbilicus, eight Aveeks after she had fallen ill Avith typhoid fever. A sinus remained, and a copious y)urulent discharge con- tinued for some months. There Avas a pufty fulness betAveen the epigastrium and umbilicus, and great distension of the A’eins of the abdominal Avail, but no fever Avhatever. I*us could be made to floAV from the sinus by pressure upon every accessible part of the belly, and a ju’obe passed iiiAANards five or six inches, and moved freely in all directions. The other successful case Avas in a girl, aged five, Avhose illness had begun six Aveeks before Avith “ inflam- ' These cases have since been bronght before the Clinical Society of London. See Lancet and Brit. Med. Journal, October 20, 1882.