TUMORS OF THE SKULL. 151 is in any way pronounced, and so peculiar often is the general outline of the deformity about the anterior fontanelle, tliat M. Parrot speaks of it as the “natiform” deformity. The general condition of the infants who are the subjects of these skull changes needs no mention in this place, nor does the treatment of the constitutional malady. The only local treatment to he advised is to keep the back of the head free from pressure, and this is easily effected by the use of a ring of cotton-wool, or some such simple contrivance. Tumors of the Skull. Cysts of the Skull.—Some few cases have been recorded of cysts developed within the substance of the cranial bones. It is probable that in every instance these were hydatid cysts. Four examples of cyst have been cited by Bruns; of these, three were located on the vault, and one on the base of the skull. One ot the best recorded cases of this affection is that detailed by Robert Keate.* A female, aged 18, presented a large tumor on the frontal bone, that occupied neaily the whole of the left half of the bone, and extended some way across the right half. It had been growing slowly for six years. The patient complained of headache, vertigo, sickness, and noises in the ears. On attempting to remove the tumor, which was of bony hardness, it was found to be composed of a cyst in the substance of the bone, lined by a membrane. A clear fluid escaped from it. The cyst had evidently developed in the di- ploe and had separated the two tables, the inner plate being depressed towards the cranial cavity. The contents having been evacuated, the wound was allowed to heal. The cyst re-formed, and, on being re-opened, many small cysts were found embedded in the wall of the oiflginal cyst. Attempts were made to destroy the growth with caustics, and ultimately, after an applica- tion of the saw and much exfoliation of bone, the wound healed, and a com- plete cure resulted. R"o microscopic examination was made of the cyst-con- tents, but there can be little doubt that the growth was due to the hydatid parasite. In a case recorded by Ilolscher,^ a hydatid cyst ajipears to have developed from the dura mater beneath the parietal l)one, and to have perfo- rated that bone and so formed an external tumor. This tmnor Avas soft and fluctuating, Avith a distinct rim of IxAiie at its base. It suppurated, and on incision a number of hydatids Avere evacuated. The patient, a lad aged 14, did remarkably Avell. Glemenceau gives a case of spontaneous cure of a hyda- tid cyst of the brain, brought about by its opening externally. Sarcoma of tjie Skull.—Sarcomatous growths from the cranial bones are not very uncommon, and probably most of the cases of cancer of the skull, described by older authors, Avere of this ’nature. The tumors may groAV either from the surface of the skull (pericranial sarcoTna) or may commence in the dijfloe (diploic sarcoma). In the 'lyericranud form, a tumor rapidly develops beneath the pericranium, and separates it more or less extensively from the subjacent Ijone. The sar- comatous groAvth soon penetrates into the osseous tissue at its base, diving in at many points so that the bone becomes riddled Avith the iicAV material. Fine bony trabeculre form early on the substance of these tumors. The tra- beculre radiate from the l)ase of the groAvth, and serve to support the softer parts. The amount and density of tiiis tral)ecular tissue vary greatly. As the mass extends externally, it forms a large, rounded, orlobulated mass, very distinctly outlined. The growth at the same time spreads more deeply into * Med.-Cliir. Traus., vol. x. p. 279. 1819. lleiueke, loc. cit., p. 78.