DISEASES OF THE SCALP. 121 theory is supported by a comparison between this affection and the changes that occur sometimes in the skulls of old people whereby perforations in the vault are produced.^ Ilyrtl,^ moreover, has shown that the air cavities of the skull may undergo great enlargement by the gradual atrophy of their walls; but as to the cause of that atrophy nothing is known. Many facts support the theory that the perforation is due to caries sicca. The pain and other symptoms often associated with the disease would bear upon this point, as would also the condition of the bone itself. It is maintained,^ however, that the irregularities on the surface of the bone are subsequent to the separation of the irericranium, but I would urge that this relation has not yet been satis- factorily demonstrated. The treatment of pneumatocele should, in most cases, be merely palliative, and may consist of gentle and constant pressure upon the mass, maintainecl by a suitable pad and an elastic bandage, or, if on account of troublesome symptoms, or for other reasons, more active measures are called for, the tumor may be reduced, or if irreducible, emptied by a fine trocar, and then firm pressure kept up over the site of the tumor for a number of weeks. In Denonvillier’s case, the mass was very much reduced in size in fifty days. Many of the recorded cases were treated by incision, a treatment that must be strongly condemned. For in each case so treated, severe suppuration fol- lowed, and in two cases led to a fatal issue—by pyremia in Lecat’s case, and by extension of the infiarnmation to the brain in that of Fleury’s patient. ILematoma.—As far as the external soft parts of the liead are concerned, collections of blood may be formed in thi'ee situations: 1. Above the aponeurosis, in the substance of the true scalp. (Ihnmatomata in this situa- tion are generally small and circumscribed.) 2. Below the aponeurosis, in the loose connective tissue that separates it from pericranium. (These blood collections are generally extensive and diffuse.) 3. Beneath the i)ericranium. It is to blood tumors only in this last situation tliat the term cephalhcematoma is applied. Under the generic term of luematoma may also conveniently be considered certain remarkalfie blood tumors that communicate with the in- tracranial venous circidation. l^unple Heematoinata of t/i.e Scalp.—Simple collections of blood situated either in the true scalp or in the connective tissue beneath its aponeurosis, require no especial mention in this place. Tliey are the results of injury, and an ac- count of the general history and treatment of such collections will Ijc found elsewhere. One word, however, may be said with regard to extensive Ifiood collec- tions beneath tlie a[ioneurosis in children. These may involve nearly the whole vault, being limited solely by the attachments of the aponeurosis, and may attain an immense size. So extensive may these Itlood tumors l)e, that they may simulate hydrocephalus;^ from wliich affection, however, tliey may readily be distinguished by their history, liy the absence of the characteristic sha})C of the forehead, and liy the fact that the normal skull may be felt beneath the collection of fluid. Such large extravasations are most frequent in cachectic children, and often follow upon apparently very trilling injuries.® 1 Vide infra, Atrophy of Skull. ® Ilyrtl, lie la dehiscence spontan6e de la route du tympan et des cellules mastoidiennes. Comj)tes rendus de I’Aoad. des Sciences, tome xxx, No. 10. 1858. ^ Uayraud, Art. “Crane.” Diet. Encycl. des Sc. Med., ]). 538. 1879. ■* Holmes, Art. Regional Surgery. System of Surgery, 2<l ed., vol. v. p. 903. ® See a remarkahle case in a lioy of eight years, reported by Dr. .lames Finlaysou ; the tumor was so large as to simulate liydrooephalus, and there was no direct history of injury. The case proved fatal. Glasgow Med. Journal, 1880, p. 190.