1121 STRANGULATED HERNIA. ration of the tissues. If any part of the howel be included, it may thus * become perforated, and may give exit to the alvine matter or mucus which it contains. This may, according to its position, either escape into tlie peri- toneal cavity and set up local or general peritonitis, or be retained in the sac, causing it to suppurate. General Symptoms of Strangulation.—These may be separated into the symptoms of obstruction., which indicate the stoppage of the passage of the intestinal contents, and those of strangulation jumper., which indicate arrest of the local cii’culation and pressure upon the nerves. Both are common to hernia and to various other pathological conditions. The former are usually slower in development, and more chronic in continuance, wliile the latter are more acute, intense, and alarming to the patient. Thus the symptoms of obstruction may result from intra-abdominal pressure l)y various tumors, from adhesions, from impaction of feces, or from calculi. They can occur oidy where the intestinal canal is directly implicated. Those of strangulation may result also from iutra-peritoneal causes independently of rupture, such as the sudden entanglement of the bowel in bands of adhesion, forming loo})S or openings in the mesentery or omentum, through which the liowel may be suddenly thrust. On the other hand, they may occur without complete obstruction of the bowels in ruptures, as where the omentum only is present in the sac, and is strangulated without implication of the bowel in the constriction. The signs of obstruction are persistent constipation^ and eventually total cessa- tion of the alvine evacuations. One or more costive evacuations of the contents of the bowel below the obstructed part may occur, after the f rst symptoms have manifested themselves, and are usuallj^ attended by tenesmus and strain- ing. If these evacuations are in fair (piantity, the position of the obstniction may lie localized as being somewhere above the large intestine. Gradu- ally the abdomen becomes distended, and flatulent eructations and borboryg- nius occur, the flatus rarely if ever passing downwards by the anus. The distension of the bowel may, in thin persons, often be ti-aced on the surface of the abdomen, and is slowest and most })ronounced in obstructions low down. Colick}’ pains, more or less severe, follow from s[)asmodic peristaltic move- ments. These ultimately become reversed in oolcr of occurrence, and project the fecal matter towards the mouth. Then occurs vomiting, at first of the just taken and unaltered food, then of the chymous ingesta and the acid, gastilc secretions, then of chyle more or less tinged with bile, and finally of matter possessing a decidedly fecal smell and appearance. In cases of acute strangu- lation, the vomiting and sickness take }ilace almost immediately, attended with much pain from the sympathetic irritation of the gastric nerve-centres, j As a rule, the vomiting occurs earlier in the sequence of symptoms the higher the point of obstruction. The ]>ain increases in intensity, is not referred with certainty to a ])ai-ticular s})Ot, but follows rather tlie curve of the bowel around the umliilicus, to which it is vaguely referred. The secretion of urine rna_y lie limited, and this has been said to indicate a high position of the obstruction ; but the amount of urine depends so much upon that of the per- spiration, and upon the quantity of fluids swallowed, that the indication is 1 of little practical value. I In the earlier stages, the temperature of the patient is usually normal; after- j wards it ma_y rise somewhat at night, to i'all in the morning often below the I natural average ; and at the same time the pulse (piickens and is more coni- |1 ]iressible. In the later stages the tcmperatui’e often falls consideralily, and may remain below the normal standard, while the pulse quickens to 120 per minute or more, and becomes moie fcelile, and at last irregular and intermit- I tent. The respirations are quick and sballow, and entirely thoracic, ddie VOL. V. — 71