CYSTS OF THE NECK. 605 with the glands of that region, though they may grow in the cellular tissue without a"iiy relation to the glandular structures. When situated in front of the neck, such a cyst may be confounded with goitre, which it may closely resemble in physical characters; hut if a clear clinical history is obtainable, the distinction can be made, seeing that the goitre springs from a ditferent part of the neck, and that it is only in their later stages that they come to coincide in position, and that, as a rule, the goitre is tinner, and has a move- ment with deglutition, and often, also, an effect on respiration, which is not observed in the case of a cyst unconnected with the tliyroid body. Diagnosis.—From spina-bilida and encephalocele, a cyst of the neck is differentiated (in those eases in which its position might cause the question to arise) by being more superticial, by having no connection Avitli or iuliu- ence upon the spinal cord or the brain, even when compressed, by exhil)iting no movement on expiration and no pulsation, by not being reducible or pedunculated, and Ijy thei-e being no aperture in tlie parts below, such as may be frequently detected in hernia of the membranes of the cord or brain. In many instances it is inqjossible to distinguish a cj’st composed of a single cell, from one having many compartments. If the wave of huid caused by percussion is found to be circumscribed, and if various distinct centres of movement are made out in a tumor, then its nmltilocular character cannot be doubted; but it is by no means the case that this is usually recognized in. a satisfactory manner, and that because of the varying tljickness of the cyst-walls and contents. In small cysts, even lluctuation may, from such causes, be very obscure and difficult to define. An ex})loratory puncture may be necessary to discover wliat is contained in sucli a cyst, Imt a conside- ration of the age of the patient, ami the shape and history of the tumor, Avill supply important aids to diagnosis. As to prognosis., it will, of course, turn on the nature, position, size, and connections of the cyst, and on the age of the patient. When large and deeply placed, in young childi‘e)i, the cysts Avill manifestly prove very dan- gerous. The nmltilocular cysts are Avorse than the unilocular, as they attain a greater size and are more difficult to deal Avith. The etiologg of cysts of the neck is A^ery obscure, and as yet little under- stood. They have been ascribed to many causes, some of them not a little fanciful—injury received during pregnancy, undue uterine contractions, pressure from the umbilical cord, etc. That sanguineous cysts may arise from contusions or strains during deli\'ery, has more probability to com- mend it. The various cysts have been traced by different observers to the Idoodvessels, glands, and cellular tissue, and have l)een ascribed to imperfect development of structure, and to the uncertain realm of “ mcav formations;’’ but iiotAvithstanding the arni)le discussion Avhich this point has undergone, little reliable light has yet Ijeen throAvn upon it, and consequently it Avould be fruitless to dAvell upon it further.^ Xo hereditary history can, as a rule, be traced regarding the occurrence of these cysts, and nothing important or reliable is known Avith reference to the influence of sex, age, etc., in their production. Treatment.—In very young children it is Avell to delay, if possible, all inter- ference till the strength of body diminishes the danger. liepeated punctures, aided, if possible, by conqjrcssion, may retard the progress of these c_ysts. The plans Avhich may be pursued in the treatment of c_ysts of the neck are numerous and diversified, in order to meet the requirements of the various ' Reference can lie made to Liicke, Traite des Tnmenrs ; Pitlia nnd Rillrotli’s Handbucli der Cliirurgie ; Richard, Bulletin de la Soo. de Chir. 1851 ; Lawrence, Medical Times. 1850 ; A^oille- nuer, Des kystes du cou. 1851; Comptes Rendus de la Societe de Biologie. 1853, 1854; Gi- raldes, Bull, de la Soc. de Chir. 1859 ; A/’erneuil, Tumeur congenitale du cou. 1875.