INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1054 * Op. cit., p. 50. first puncture, there were 86 cures, 17 deaths, and 3 in which the results are uidiiiown. Moreover, there is no evidence that suppuration ever, took place in 71 of the 106 cases, and of these 71 cases 58 were cures, 11 deaths, and 2 unknown as to results. In the 49 cases in which the fluid was not clear on the first puncture, 26 patients were cured, and 20 died, the results in 3 cases being unknown. Tlie inference is, that if the fluid is not rpiite clear at the first puncture, if suppuration sets in after the first puncture, or if no improvement follows puncture when the contents of the cyst consist largel}' of daughter-cysts, the proper plan of treatment is, either to introduce a very large trocar and canula, and leave the canula in, or, what is still better, to make a deli- berate incision into the cyst, and stitch the edges of the cyst or liver to the edges of the parietal wound. To delay operating in one of these ways, after pus has fairly formed, is to court disaster by long and exhausting illness, if not Ity early death. The medical attendant should, therefore, carefully watch for the signs of suppuration. In making an incision we need not fear wounding a non-adherent perito- neum. The operation should be thus performed; an incision shotdd be made through the abdominal parietes over the most prominent part of the cyst, until the liver-capsule is reached, all bleeding from the cut surfaces being arrested, however, before the peritoneum is opened; a trocar and canula should then be introduced into the cyst, and all the fluid drawn olf, taking care that none of it escapes into the peritoneal cavity ; this can be insured by having a long canula, or by packing sponges around it, before withdrawing the trocar, hlext, an incision with a narrow-bladed bistoury should be made into the cyst, using the canula as a guide. If adhesions have not formed between the cyst and tlie parietes, care must be taken to seize and draw fonvai’ds the edges of tlie incision into the liver-cyst, and they should be stitched by continuous sutui’e to the edges of the incision in the abdominal parietes. Sir Josejih Fayrer has devised a grooved canula for opening liver-altseesses, which is well adapted for hydatid cysts ; the canula is of medium size, and would empty the cyst of fluid and small vesicles, and its groove would then serve as a guide for the bistoury. After emptying it of its contents, the cyst should be washed out with a weak solution of iodine, Condy’s fluid, salicylic acid, or some other antiseptic; a drainage-tube should be inserted, and the opening covered with boracic charpie, or cotton-wool, and over that a layer of carded oakum. Subsequent daily dressings and irrigation will be required for a longer or shorter time, according to the amount and character of the dis- charge. I have opened hydatid cysts of the liver in this manner on five or six occasions, and have been surprised at the slight amount of bleeding which has followed incisions, deej) and wide through the liver tissue, made in order to fully lay open the interior of the cyst; and even when hemorrhage has, for the moment, been free, it has soon stopped upon using gentle pressure. A source of danger from bleeding lies, however, in rough attempts to tear out the parent-cyst. Sucli an attempt should never be made. Bright' relates a case, in which, the cyst having opened and discharged spontaneously just below the umbilicus, an etibrt was made to pull away the cyst-wall. The next day severe hemorrhage set in, and at the post-mortem examination an open hepatic vein was found, from which the bleeding had occurred. Though it is right to remove at once all the secondary cysts from its interior, the parent membrane should be left to become loosened, or to slough, and then large masses of it will escape in the subsequent dressings. The chief dangers after free incision, are exhaustion from protracted dis-