717 BRONCHOTOMY : LARYNGOTOMY, TRACHEOTOMY, ETC. He tlien seizes tlie edge of the tracdiea on the distant side witii a pair of toothed forceps, closes tlie slide and hands it over to his assistant, and imine-' diately secures the other edge Avith a similar instrument Avhich he retains in his own grasp. The tAVO noAv make slight traction, so as to lift the trachea and separate the edges of the Avound, and the air enters Avithout impediment. As already noted, a normal, momentary apncea ma}- be expected to folloAv the tirst deep inspiration. If false membrane or foreign body is to be searched for, the proper manipulations are then to he made. If a canula is to he intro- duced, the edges of the incision are held asunder sufficiently for the })urpose. If the canula is to he Avorn for a Long period, a small, semi-elliptic section should he dissected from each edge of the incision, so as to leave a permanent oritice and thus avoid undue injury to the cartilages hy stretching them asunder. Long-continued retention of the canula is alniost certain to cause necrotic destruction of the edges of the artiticial aperture, and nothing is gained hy omitting their exseetion. Wlien the canula is to he worn hut a feAv days, as in operations for croup, oedema, etc., no such section should he made, as it impairs the integrity of the air-tuhe after cicatrization, and may lead to internal hernia from atmosjiheric pressure externally. Should some iiitra-ti’acheal operation Ije recpiisite, the incision can Ije kept patent liy Golding-Bird’s automatic retractor (see Fig. 1042, p. 070), or hy some sub- stitutive device. Simple as tracheotomy is, in some individuals, in others it becomes quite difficult—often from complications presenting themselves as the operation pro- gresses. This is especially the case in children. As hold and ex])erienced a surgeon as Billrotld considers tracheotomy in children the most difficult opera- tion that he has ever performed ; an opinioji Avhich hut echoes a similar expres- sion hy Gross.^ What Audue then can he assigned to the experience of those Avho pronounce it “ a A-ery simple 0})eration ?” While many a tracheotomy is practicable Avithout the necessity of securing a single hloodA'^essel, the }ilexus may he so extensive as to require many ligatures. Sliort necks, superabun- dance of fat, enlarged thyroid glands, and anomalous distribution of blood- supplies, present much need for cautious manipulation. In such instances, no hesitation should he felt in making as free an incision through the integu- ment as may I)e desirable to secure }U’oper illumination of the held and ample room for the hngers. A “ bloodless traeheotomv” has been urged hy Bosc,^ to supersede the ordinary high operation. In this procedure, the hrst incision is a longitu- dinal one, extending from the median jiortion of the thyroid cartilage to about the fourth ring of the trachea. The cricoid cartilage being fully ex- posed, is then steailied Avith the huger, and a second incision, rather less than half an inch in length, is made transversely and as close as practicable to the upper margin of the cartilage. This incision, in Avliieh the main feature of the operation resides, divides the duplicature of fascia hetAveen the cricoid cartilage and tlie isthmus of the thyroid gland; the fascia laryngo-tiiyreoideci (Ilueter). The loAver border is seized Avith forceps, and the fascia stripped from the cricoid cartilage and the trachea Avith a blunt hook or a director— the isthmus of the gland being gradually loosened from its connections, and imshod doAviiAvards and outAvard, laying the rings hare. The directions of the lines of incision are shoAvn in Fig. 1064. In cases of emergency, with poor liglit and Avitlioiit skilled assistants, a rapid tracheotomy is thus executed hy Durham.^ The patient being put in ju’oper position, a careful preliminary examination of the parts is rapidly ' Clinical Surgery, p. 140. London, 1881. 3 Arcliiv fur klin. Cliir., Bd. xiv. S. 137. 1871. 2 Op. cit., p. 231. * Op. cit., 3d. ed., vol. i. p. 775.