252 INJURIES AND DISEASES OE THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. cylindrical lens may often be combined with the splierical with very great benefit. Cataract glasses are worn in heavy frames, as any other spectacles. It is better to wait six weeks or more before accurate trials are made to adapt the glasses, but a walking lens of four inches may be worn till that time if necessary. Great prudence in the use and the exjiosure of the eyes is re- quired for months after the operation. As already mentioned, the lens may be luxated in the eye, either from an injury or spontaneously. If this displacement takes place in the vitreous, leaving a free pupil and causing no destructive irritation, useful vision may be enjoyed by the aid of a cataract glass. If increased tension results, the glaucomatous hardness and threatened loss of sight may be relieved by a very careful iridectomy. Even an extraction may sometimes be practised, but at the risk of great loss of vitreous. In case all saving measures fail, the painful eye must be enucleated. Should the lens be knocked into the anterior chamber, or fall through the pupil, extraction is imperative. Spontaneous luxation of the lens is often seen in coloboma of the iris, with defective devel- opment of the zone of Zinn. I recall several curious cases of this kind. But even in the absence of any congenital deformity of the eye, family peculiari- ties exist which predispose to spontaneous luxation. I have now under treatment a man, 48 years old. He felt some trouble in the right eye after lifting, and called for advice. There was ectopia of the lens downwards, the edge showing in the pupil, but with no pain or irritation. With a weak cataract lens the vision was two-lifths. At first the edge of the lens was at the centre of the pupil, but in three or four days the displacement downwards was complete ; the eye remained comfortable, and the sight the same, for some months. Then one day, while he was stooping over a shrub, the eye was struck by the end of a twig ; four days afterwards the eye was jiainful, tender to light, and weeping, the ball sore to the touch, with marked ciliary injection atid discoloration of the iris, but no increase of tension. I prescribed a weak solution of atropine, and enjoined quiet. Next morning the eye was much better in all respects; but the same afternoon, while stooping for a book, he felt something “ give way,” and was suddenly blind. I found the lens, inclosed in its capsule and partially cataractous, in the anterior chamber. He was kept quiet for twenty-four hours, under tlie local use of eserine, and then the lens was extracted by a large corneal incision downwards. No vitreous was lost, but the iris prolapsed very slightly, the protruding portion being then snipped off. For some days the patient was kept in bed, and suffered a good deal of pain, but he recovered, with extraordinary vision, by the aid of a -f-S9d. 3-j-C3dA 45, In his left eye, with a myopia of 6 d., he has a vision of the iris being tremulous, and there being some striae of opacity in the lower and inner edge of the lens. Luxation will take place in this eye at some future time. In his family are five brothers and five sisters, seven of the ten having perfect eyes. One brother has a liealthy emmetropic right eye, but in the left there is a complete luxation outwards, with confirmed glaucoma and hopeless blindness, the eye remaining comfort- able. A sister has also one good eye, and one with luxation of the lens into the vitreous. Glaucoma. The essential characteristic of the fatal group of symptoms, called glaucoma, is increased hardness of the globe. The strong maintaining tunic is com- posed of the sclera and cornea. These two parts, physically so different, histologically are directly continuous, the fibres simply becoming transparent when passing into the cornea, and vice versa. When naturally distended by the inclosed"transparent media, and the blood pressure of the choroidal and retinal vessels, the sensation given to the finger is called “normal tension.” The healthy tone or elasticity of the eye, and the various deviations, can only