DISEASES OF THE SCALP. 123 rhage is almost invariably to be found. A little pressure of the head upon the pelvis of the mother, or, as some would urge, the contractions of the uterus itself upon the head, may provide all the force required to produce a cephalhiematoma. It is well known that this blood tumor occurs in children delivered by the very easiest form of labor, and that it has been observed also in cases of breech or foot presentation. Some, therefore, insist on a spon- taneous or even an intra-uterine cause for this affection. I think, however, that it may be safely ascribed to injury—however trilling—inflicted during birth. Symptoms—Cephalhsematoma is little noticed at bii’tli, but usually appears within forty-eight hours. When first observed it is generally about the size of a hazelnut; it gradually increases, and in a few days may be the size of a chestnut. Some cephalhgematomata have been as large as hens’ eggs, and Chelius says that they may involve the whole parietal bone. Tlie tumor is circumscribed, soft, elastic, slightly fluctuating, and painless. The skin over it is normal, or a trifle discolored, if some days have elapsed ; or tense, if the tumor has grown quickly. The tumors are always precisely limited by the pericranium, and, therefore, never extend beyond a suture, a feature of value in diagnosis. In a few days a tolerably hard ring can be felt around the soft tumor. This is probably due to jiartial coagulation, and is soon replaced by a quite hard ring, winch, as above stated, is actually osseous. Sometimes too the crackling on pressui’e,due to subpericranial ossification, can be appreciated. Having attained certain dimensions, the tumor begins to subside. As it be- comes more flaccid, the bony circle becomes moi’e distinct, and is the last component of the tumor to disappear. These tumors do not pulsate, except in those very rare cases in which a neighboring artery gives some feeble impulse to the mass, or in which a communicating internal cephalluematoma exists. In the diay'nosis of cephalheematoma, the chief points are its time of ap- pearing, its tendency to increase, its elastic character, its osseous ring, and the precision with which the tumor is limited to one bone. The prognosis is most favorable. In the great majority of cases, spontane- ous cure follows in from fifteen days to two months from the date of appear- ance of the tumor. In a few cases suppuration has followed, and in still less frequent instances, caries or necrosis of the subjacent bone is recorded. The treatment of cephalluematoma simply consists in letting the tumor alone. Interference of any kind is useless, if not harmful. If, however, it should at any time become painful, or if it should persist for more than two months, and still appear soft, the mass may be aspirated, and firm pressure applied. Discutients, pressure, the seton, cautery, and incision, are simply mentioned to be condemned. Internal Cephalhematoma.—This term has been applied to hemorrhages between the dura mater and the bone observed in tlie newly born. It is im- possible to diagnose this condition during life, and it presents no practical interest. Sometimes, however, a hemorrhage in this situation may coincide with an external cephalhnematoma, and not infrequently the two blood tumors have communicated through a fissure in the bone, whereby })ulsation has been given to the superficial mass. Such tumors are, however, very rare, and, as a rule, soon end fatally. They may be mistaken for meningoceles, from which tumors they may be distinguished by the fact that they are small, flat, without pedicle, and quite opaque, and that they are usually situ- ated on the parietal bone where meningoceles do not occur. The “ cephalematome des femmes” of French authors refers to a tumor said