GLAUCOMA. 257 opened Avell and closed again, thus seizing and slowly drawing out the iris. Tlie previous use of eserine, to contract the pupil as much as possible, facili- tates the operation, and diminishes the risk of wounding the lens capsule. After the iris has been properly snipped, the eye should be instantly shut, and gentle compression made, to avoid intra-ocular hemorrhage. After a few minutes let the eye be carefully opened and inspected. If any iris remain imprisoned in either angle of the cut, it must be seized, stretched, and snipped off. If the scleral section is not freed from iris, trouble and doubtful relief are to be expected. Of course, the wire speculum and the fixation forceps are always necessary, and, in most cases, etherization. The same steps and precautions are to be taken as in Graefe’s method of extraction, except that the incision into tlie anterior chamber is shorter. The suspensory ligament and capsule of the lens must not be injured ; the eye should be kept lightly bandaged, and the patient rpiietly in bed, for a few days. In acute glaucoma^ this operation, executed jiroperly, and within a few days, shows its greatest triumphs. The longer it is delayed, the greater doubt as to success. In most cases of chronic, siingle glaucoma, it fails to save useful vision, but the patient should have the only chance. In chronic, in f!arnmatorg gla.u- coraa it promises better, but often fails to afford perraanent benefit to sight. It relieves tension generally, and saves the patient from much suffering in tlie future, at all events. In both these varieties, it is sometimes necessary to do a second iridectomy, below and opposite the first, to achieve permanent softening of the e}'e. In secondarg glaucoma, in addition to removing the cause as far as possible, an iridectomy should always be done, and will often succeed in saving the eye. For hemorrhagic glaucoma the operation should never be risked. Immediate extinction of sight from profuse intra-ocular hemorrhage would be almost sure to follow, and, even if it did not, tbe vision would be lost at last. Of course, in confirmed glaucoma, wliere no Iioyie of sight can be entertained, tbe operation should be avoided, except, it may be, to relieve extreme pain. Its execution is then very difficult, and enucleation will at last give the safest and surest relief from suffering. In rare cases of glaucoma simplex, and in other more promising forms, the best executed ope- ration may be followed by rai>id and complete loss of sight. AV^hile this possibility should be remembered, it should not deter us fi’om a resort to the only hope of relief. The theory that explains the mechanism of operations for the cure of glaucoma by tlie filtration cicatrix, has suggested sclcrotomg. A larger experience witli this method must decide on its comparative merits. If any operation is to be performed in hemorrhagic glaucoma, this is the safest and the only one to be recommended. In the chronic and doubtful forms, it may also be tried, as well as in confirmed cases. It certainly removes tbe peculiar Iiardness of the globe in some cases, and may, on fair and large trial, replace iridectomy. But the latter has the firmest hold on the confidence of all but a few operators. The object in sclerotomy is to avoid mutilating the iris, and to prevent it from prolapsing into tlie incision. To avoid this, eserine is freely used before the operation. The first steps are precisely the same as for iridectomy. After counter-puncture, the knife is moved slowly backwards and forwards till the scleral incision is nearly completed. Then it is slowly witlidrawn, allowing the aqueous to ti’ickle out very gradually, so that the iris may not be washed into the wound. If it prolapses, the rubber spatula may be used to replace it. Eserine and friction over the cornea, tlirough the medium of the lid, may reduce it. If this cannot be done, it will be better to draw the ins out and snip it off. The eserine treatment may be beneficial in relieving any hardness that sometimes persists after the surgical treatment. VOL. V.—17