80 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. heart’s action is strong and frequent, aconite and veratrnm viride may be found useful, either with or without the opium. Chloral and the bromides, as sup- plementary to opium, or to replace it, Avill prove useful in cases of excessive wakefulness, and where there is a marked tendency to convulsions. Tlie condition of the kidneys as to prior renal disease should be investi- gated, as otherwise we may confound cerebral symptoms of renal origin with those due to traumatism. What testimony does experience give as to the results of antiphlogistic treatment ? In our late Avar, Avhere it Avas not considered essential, Otis states that fonr-lifths of the cases of injury to the skull and its contents proved fatal, Avhile the British surgeons in the Crimean War, and the German sur- geons in 1849-50, saA'ed more than one-half. To be sure, the more universal adoption of rifled Aveapons may make this diflerence in reality less than it seems, hut it cannot account for the entire discrepancy. Should blisters or other forms of counter-irritation be used ? I think not, and certainly only late in the disease. Suppose that the case does Avell, Avhen must the antiphlogistic measures be exchanged for a more ordinaiy diet and treatment ? This must be left to the surgeon’s judgment in each special case. I know nothing much harder to decide than, at the bedside of a patient Avith serious head-injnry, to correctly indicate Avhen a resort to a more liberal diet should be.initiated. Of course, Avhen the patient is manifestly becoming rapidl}" exhausted, the question is simple enough. It is in those cases Avhich are doing Avell, Avitli apparently not mnch amiss Avitli them, that errors arise. No sudden change should be alloAved, but a more generous dietary may he tentatively instituted. Stimu- lants even are required in some cases, but here I i)refer digitalis, to improve the poAver of the heart, or ammonia in some form, rather than alcohol. Having gotten the system under the mercurial influence, the calomel must be omitted, or given at longer interAJ'als. In the later stages, iodide of potas- sium and ergot have proA-ed serviceable in my hands. In the later and more insidious forms of traumatic encephalitis, to which the terms subacute or chronic may be applied, Avhere the patient, after some slight injury, persists in attending to Avork and business, until slight head- ache, mental irritability, constipation, broken sleep, vertigo, and fever set in, to be folloAved by delirium, etc., the treatment does not materially ditier from that already indicated, except that depletion is less Avell borne, and that mercurial purgatives and a more generous diet seem rather indicated than a strict antiphlogistic regimen. After any attack of intracranial inflammation, the patient must regard himself as an iuA'alid for a long period, entirely abstaining from Avork or onlj^ gradually returning to it, and at once relinquishing it upon the slightest sign of cerebral irritability. Cerebral Abscess.—So graA^e does any operation for intracranial abscess appear to the public, tliat many surgeons alloAV themselves to be influenced by the fear of blame should death result, and are too apt to confound the great fatality inherent in the disease itself, with that of the operation destined for its relief. A calm consideration of the natural history of the atiection in question, will, I believe, shoAv that, when accessible, these depots of pus should be treated upon the same principles that govern us in dealing AAdth circumscribed suppurations elseAvhere. Are such collections of 2jus, even in the arachnoid cavity, ever absorbed ? There is no such case on record. What do autopsies teach us Avith regard to abscesses of the cerebral substance? That in the vast majority of cases they enlarge, by involving more and more