327 DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR, inflammatioiL This is the time when a minute quantity of finely pulverized burnt alum, or of alum and iodoform mixed in equal parts, or of iodoform alone, if judiciously ]^^)ushed through the perforation into the t^-mpanum, will tighten up the relaxed tissues, and virtually put an end to the disease. As far as my experience goes, boracic acid is far inferior to iodoform in its cura- tive powers, and furthermore it occasionally seems to act as an irritant. Burnt alum is an exceedingly valuable remedy, but it is only after long expe- rience that one can use it satisfactorily. It sometimes sets up a pathological disturbance which it is hard to control. AVliile I should probably tail if I were to attempt to lay down any accurate indication for its employment, I may say, in a general way, that it should always be introduced in very small quantities, and never when any trace remains of active infiammation. In particularly stubborn cases, we may find it necessary to administer cod-liver oil internally, or to send the patient away from lioine for a period of two or three weeks. Such a change of air and scene will often effect what the most painstaking and skilful treatment has failed to accomplish. Chronic Purulent Inflammation of the Middle Ear.—A chronic puru- lent inflammation of the middle ear may almost invariably be traced back to an acute attack that had its origin in a “cold,” or in scarlet fever, measles, or some other infective disease. In a few cases the affection begins in an insidious manner, without pain, and apparently without any exciting cause. These comparatively rare instances are o))served in scrofulous or consunqdive individuals, and the middle-ear disease may then be set down as being of a distinctively tubercular or scrofulous nature. The salient feature of all these cases of chronic purulent inflammation of the middle ear, is the constant or frequently recurring discharge of pus from the affected region. AVith regard to all the other symptoms—the degree of the diminution in the hearing- power, the presence or absence of pain, tinnitus, etc., and the lesions oliserv- able by the aid of the speculum and refiectcd liglit—the cases ditfer to such an extent that a general description would fit only a comparatively small number. Furthermore, if Ave look at this question from a practical }>oint of view, from the stand])oint of one who desires to effect a cure, Ave shall aj>})re- ciate the folly of attempting to draAV anything like a general picture of the disease. Each case must be a study liy itself, and wlien the student Avishes to make a diagnosis, he must strive to render an account to himself of the changes that are going on in all the different parts of the ear. If he rests satisfied Avith the mere diagnosis of “ chronic [uirulent inflammation of the middle car,” and then consults some text-book for the purpose of ascertaining Avhat is the proper treatment for the disease Avhich bears this name, he Avill often fail to arrest a discharge Avhich might otherwise be easily checked. As the space alloted to this article is limited, I Avill make no attempt to classify the different ty]>es of chronic i)urulent inflammation of the middle ear, but Avill simply describe the ])lan Avhich I usually folloAV Avhen I am called upon to ascertain the seat and the extent of tlie disease in a case of protracted discharge from this organ. Every observer has his OAvn pai'ticular method of getting at the truth, and yet these diffei-cnt methods all lead to the same result. The one Avhicli I have adopteil, is probably, in all material respects, the same as that employed by many other observers. It is, briefly stated, as folloAVs ; I obtain from the })atient, or from the parents or guardians, as clear an account as possilde of the origin and progress of the affection. It is important to learn the degree of activity of the discharge, Avhether constant or intermittent, Avhether fetid in character, and Avhether pale or tinged Avith blood. I ascertain also whether jiain has lieen an accompaniment of the disease, and endeavor to find out the precise locality to Avhich the pain