INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 080 time, besides those of size. The upper one, from its incessant activity, receives an extra su]»p]y of blood, and in consecpience increases in volume and strength; and this excess of life is imparted to the mesenteiy, and to the glandular and muscular structures of the bowel. The lower portion, on the other hand, atrojihies, though it is rarely, if ever, obliterated entirelybut its muscular, mucous, glandular, and mesenteric apparatus all waste, and, to such a degree that, as lOupuytren has pointed out, after some years the diftei- ence between the up}>er and lower ends of the intestinal tube is so great that while the former seems to be that of an adult, the lower looks as if it be- longed to a new-born intant. Jobert says of it, “ qui est revenu sur lui-meme, eomme un intestin de chat, et qui ressemble parfaitement a un intestin grele d’enfant.”^ Otis^ says that a feature common to all the cases of abnormal anus, the result of wounds during the war, was the absence, or but slight development, of the crescent-shaped septum, or eperon, commonly found in cases of false anus following gangrened hernia. That this septum is not a necessary or a frequent consequence of the destruction of a limited portion of the intestinal wall by injuiy, though at variance with Scarpa’s teaching, is, Otis thinks, the most important practical lesson deduced from the many instances of spontaneous recovery from extensive wounds of the large intestines. According to 8carj)a, in a false anus resulting from gangrene of a hernia, the ends of the bowel are embraced by a sort of membranous funnel (enton- noir mouhranciix) or inf anil ibulmn.^ the other extremity of which is attached to the integuments. The interval Avhich exists between the two ends of the infundibulum is sometimes obliterated, sometimes sinuous, and at other times straight. This infundihulum opens upon the surface, general!}’ by a single, round, or more or less irregular aperture. It is organized exactly like a fistulous track, and is lined by a sort of mucous membi-ane, which is continuous with that of the intestine, but which has neither follicles nor villosities like the latter. Though thin, this false membrane yet serves to protect the surrounding parts from infiltration Avith fecal matters. If the liernial sac has not been destroyed by gangrene, or by ulceration and contact with the fecal matters, the infundibulum is formed by this sac, Avhich be- comes coated with ])lastic lymph. The funnel may be short, especially if tlie boAvel descends very low, or actually reaches the skin; on the other hand, it may be very long, and then the fecal matter has to course through a long ]>assage to reach the external opening. I)u})uytren, Jobert, and others, con- firm Scarpa’s description of this infundibulum, which, however, does not exist in traumatic false anus, nor in all cases the result of gangrened rupture. 'When the funnel is not present, the gut is attached to the margin of the opening in the muscles and skin of the parietes. Repair seems to be more ra](id, and si)ontaneous cure more probable and perfect, in cases in which the infundibulum is long and large, than in others; and Scarpa has pointed out that the breach in the intestine is never repaired by the orifices of the two ends of the gut reuniting, as they are at a very acute angle to one another, but that it is by means of the funnel-shaped cavity that the two ])arts of the bowel communicate, the fecal matter passing in a semicircular manner through the funnel from one side of the eperon to the other. tS)/mptoms.—These consist in the discharge, through the abnormal opening, of fecal matter, mucous substances Avhich have not undergone absorption, ' The case of M. Begin, quoted l)y nearly all writers, shows that this obliteration is not impos- sihle. Tlie patient died at eighty, having for forty years had a false anus in the left groin, com- inuuicating with the arch of the colon. 2 [“ Which is contracted, like the intestine of a cat, and which exactly resembles the small intestine of a child.”] ® Med. and Surg. History of AVar of Rebellion, Bart II., Surg. VoL, p. 109.