657 FRACTURES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. at tlie middle line or a little to one side, the intermediate cartilage usually adhering to the larger fragment (Fig. 1030). Multiple fractures may occur in one wing only or may involve both. Stellate fractures are sometimes pro- duced by gunshot injuries. Fractures of the cricoid cartilage are usually vertical or slightly oblique in direction. They may occupy the posterior, the lateral, or the anterior portion of the cartilage. They are usually single, but may be multi})le. A case is recorded in which the cartilage was broken into three fragments.^ Fractures may be complicated by disrupture of the larynx from the trachea f by oedema of the larynx or epiglottis f by laceration or rupture of the mucous membrane (Fig. 1031); by displacement of fragments so as to occlude the calibre of the respiratory passage ; by clotting of blood within it; in fact by nearly all the complications detailed in connection with contused, lace- rated, and gun-shot wounds of the larynx. A case has been recorded^ in which blood was effused in the neighboring parts to such an extent as to push the larynx over to one side. Hyniptonis of Fractured Larynx.—The symptoms vary with the cause of the injury and with the extent of the lesions. Unconsciousness is some- times an immediate result, not only in cases of fracture from manual com- pression,® but in those from blows and falls upon hard objects,® and in those from tire-arms. The ordinary subjective symptoms are pain, dyspnoea, and cough. The cough is usually spasmodic or paroxysmal, and serves to eject both frothy and coagulated blood, and bloody mucus. The dyspnoea is usually severe, and is attended with lividity of the countenance. It progresses in some instances to threatening suffocative apnoea, with all the usual accompaniments of that condition. Coarse mucous rales may be heard in the larynx. Dysphonia usually exists to some extent, in some cases amounting to aplionia. Dilli- culty of articulation occurs in some instances, and occasionally absolute in- ability to speak. Pain is usually excited by swallowing or by handling the part. Sometimes it is constant. The dysphagia, as in Mackenzie’s case,^ which was examined laryngoscopi- cally, may be found due to an intlamed and oedematous epiglottis. In exceptional cases there may be but slight hoarseness, slight dysphagia, and slight pain or mere tenderness, with total absence of dyspnma. Should a laceration in the mucous membrane commuidcate with the site of fracture, emphysema of the throat and neck will be likely to occur. Such emphysema has been known to spread over tlie face, thorax, and back, down into the mediastinum, and even over the entire body. It is said to be more likely to involve the intermuscular connective tissue than that which is sub- cutaneous. The suffocative symptoms may arise frojn serous oedema of the larynx, from hemorrhagic effusion, from accumulation of fluid or of clotted blood, or from occlusion by displaced fragments of broken cartilage and lacerated soft tissues. In some instances there has been but little dyspnoea at first, or none at all, and yet severe dyspnoea has suddenly ensued within a few hours, or as late as after several days of comparatively quiescent respiration. These ' Treulioli, Vierteljalirsclii'ift f. d. prakt. Heilkunde, Bd. v. S. 129. 1876; Centralld. f. Cliir. 1876, No. 14. ^ Wagner, Centralbl. f. Chir. 1883, No. 23. ^ Mackenzie, op. cit., p. 402. Stokes, Dub. .lour. Med. Sci., May, 1869; cited by Durbam. ® Wagner, Centralbl. f. Chir., 1883, No. 23 ; London Mod. Record, October 15, 1883. ® Roe, loc. cit. ; Sajous, Archives of Laryngology, .July, 1882. ’’ Op. cit., i>. 402. VOL. V.—42