519 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE PALATE. was looped through the other, and drawn by this means across the fissure and through both sides of the palate. In tying the silk it is convenient to use a sliding-knot, that is, one end is simply knotted firmly upon the other, when by pulling the silk the knot is slid up to the palate and will keep its place while a second knot is made over it. In the after-treatment of a case of cleft-palate operation, it is essential that plenty of liquid nourishment should be given in the first day or two, and be followed up by semi-solid food, so that the patient’s strength may be well supported, and the process of healing accelerated. The idea that any efibrt at swallowing, even of the saliva, must necessarily tear open the wound, was shown by Sir Wm. Fergusson to be fallacious, and the practice of starving the patient, first decried by Sir Philip Crampton, is now universally abandoned. Talking should be forbidden for the first few days, and it is undesirable that the patient should be exposed to any chance of taking cold by exposure to draught or east wind. The time for removing the stitches after an operation for cleft palate has been greatly modified of late years, and it has come to be thought by the most experienced operators that the longer they are left the better. In most cases, silk or horse-hair sutures should he removed in from ten days to a fortnight, but fine wire sutures may he left for weeks or even months, as long as they do not scratch the tongue. In order to improve the voice, in cases of successful staphyloraphy in which the nasal tone persists, Mr. Francis Masoid has proposed to divide the united soft palate on each side by a longitudinal incision, so that the soft palate may be loosened and made moi’e flexible. The results are, however, disappointing, as the cicatrization which necessarily ensues leaves the parts much as before. M. Passavant, with the same object iii view, proposed to make a trans- verse incision in the soft }>alate, which could then be drawii forward and reversed. A portion of the mucous membrane of the upper surface was then to be dissected otf, and a corresponding portion of the mucous mendirane of the pharynx, and the two raw surfaces were to be brought together with a few sutures. As Sedillot remarks, however, it is difficult to understand how the two surfaces could be brought in contact; and the experience of all sur- geons goes to show that permanent separation of the posterior nares and pharynx by cicatricial tissue is certain to produce nasal intonation. Uranoplast;/.—-In describing the operation usually performed by IMr. T. Smith, it will be noticed that the entire fissure in both hard and soft palates is closed by the same operation. This practice is not followed by some sur- geons, who content themselves with closing the soft palate first, hoping thus to influence the approximation of the two halves of the hard palate; or, in cases too wide for closure, to employ an artificial palate. It seems to me, however, that it is very undesirable to close the soft palate when the hard palate cannot be closed, for in these severe cases the soft |)alate is both small and short, and the results, therefore, as regards the voice, are most unsatis- factory, even after the gap in the hard palate has been filled artificially. Again, if the patient is to bo subjected to the inconvenience of wearing an artificial palate at all, he may as well he fitted witli one to fill up the whole cleft, and thus improve the voice, which will be impossible if the scanty soft palate has been united. The late Dr. Mason Warren,^ of Boston, was the pioneer in closing fissures of the hard palate by dissecting down a fla]) of mucous membrane, and his success was such as to encourage other surgeons to imitate his practice. lie ' Lancet, vol. ii. 18U9. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences. 1848.