986 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. suturing the liorders of the opening cannot close it. The description of the operation of enterectomy will be found in the article on Intestinal Obstruc- tion.i Entero-Vaginal Fistula:. Communications sometimes occur between a coil of small intestine and the vagina, as a result of injury or disease. Jobert mentions a case in which a contusion of the abdomen was followed by such a fistula. Punctured wounds from the vagina, and ulceration commencing in the mucous coat of the bowel, or following adhesions between intestine and vagina, and set up in some other way, are known causes of entero-vaginal fistula. In other cases, the condi- tion is congenital, and due to an imperforate rectum; but in these the com- municating part of the bowel is the large intestine. The sigmoid flexure coecum, and transverse colon, rarely open into the vagina, but such fistula? are not impossible. Symptoms.—These are the discharge of feces per vaginam, and the loathing, inconvenience, and misery, and the interference with sexual intercourse, which such a condition produces. Treatment.—This may be palliative or curative. The palliative consists in wearing a properly fitting pad or pessary, which should be removed from time to time for cleansing both it and the vagina. If the communication is with the sigmoid flexure or transverse colon, right colotomy would be a pre- ferable substitute. A plastic operation upon the vagina may be tried, but hopes of success cannot be great. If all other measures fail, and the fistula is large enough to allow of a free escape of fecal matter into the vagina, and to give rise to great discomfort, or perhaps, even to danger, enterectomy and circular suture, by abdominal section, should cei’tainly be performed. The subject of recto-vaginal fistula is dealt with in other articles. Foreign Bodies in the Stomach and Intestines. By “ foreign bodies” are meant such as are incapable of being influenced by the digestive processes. Poland" groups them under the following heads :— (1) Pointed bodies, such as needles and pins. (2) Elongated, irregular and cutting bodies, such as false teeth, egg-cups, heel-plates of boots, tin-tacks, knives, scissors, forks, spoons, blades, awls, bodkins, nails, slate-pencils, etc. (3) Rounded bodies, such as coins, thimbles, marbles, bullets, and fruit-stones. These are more easily got rid of by passing along the intestinal tube than those of either the first or second class. To these we must add: (4) Ilaii', wool, cocoa-nut fibre, etc., which arc apt to accumulate and become matted together into large, firm, rounded balls. The symptoms^v\i\c\\ are excited, vary according to the nature and number of the foreign substances. Sometimes the bodies will produce little or no in- • Reference should he made for information on tliis subject to tlie celebrated essay by Dupuy- tren, in his Leyons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale ; to Jobert’s work, Maladies Chirurgicales du Canal Intestinal, tome ii. p. 80 ; to Mr. Teale’s article on Intestinal Fistula, in the 2d vol- ume of Costello’s Cyclopedia of Practical Siugery ; to Prof. S. D. Gross’s excellent work on Wounds of the Intestines, chapter iv. ; to Sabatier’s Memoire sur les anus centre nature, in tlie Mem. de PAcad. Royale do Chir., tome v. p. 592. 1774 ; to Scarpa’s Treatise on Hernia, translated by J. II. Wishart; to the Dictionnaire de Mudecine, 1833, article “Anus Centre Nature;’’ to Dupuytren’s article in the Diet, de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques, tome iii. p. 267, and to many other Frendi and German works to which references will be found in the above named works. * Prize Essay.