G98 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. recognized in the laryngoscopic image, in most instances lining the cricoid cartilage, or some of the rings of the trachea, in whole or in part; and the fetid odor emanating therefrom is only too evident. The stenotic condition produced by chronic hypertrophy of the lower surface of the vocal bands— chorditis vocalis hypertrophica—is quite apparent, as shown in Figs. 1057 and 1058, taken from Tuerck, which present the laryngoscopic image both before tracheotomy and after it. Fig. 1057. Fig. 1058. Laryngoscopic image before tracheotomy. (Tuerck.) The same after tracheotomy; the canula in position. (Tuerck.) The peculiar turhan-like tumefactions of the epiglottis, and the character- istic pyriform swellings of tlie aryteno-epiglottic folds (Fig. 1059), are alike indicative of tuberculosis, a diagnostic inference usually to be suhstautiated by the result of a physical examination of the condition of the lungs. The minute, multiple ulcerations in the early stage of the more rapidly fatal cases, are often sufficiently characteristic (Fig. 1060) to indicate the nature of the lesion. Fig. 1059. Fig. 1060. Tuberculous laryngitis, ulcerative stage. Multiple ulcerations in laryngeal tuberculosis. (Mackenzie.) Recognition of the lesions mentioned, and a syphilitic liistory, or, in its absence, evidence of syphilitic lesions elsewhere, present or past, serve to determine the nature of a chronic laryngitis in s^qdiilitic subjects. In addi- tion to symmetry in ulcerative lesions, the presence of pus upon them may he distinctive. Ulceration of the epiglottis, especially from above down- ward, is usually indicative of syphilis, particularly when apparently a con- tinuation of a similar lesion in the pharynx. FTevertheless, such lesions occur in tuberculosis likewise. In case of doulit, the detection of a pulmo- nary lesion at the apex of the lung may usually he regarded as evidence of tuberculosis, the analogous pulmonary lesion of syphilis being much more frequent toward the middle portion of the lung. Furthermore, syphilis and tuberculosis may coexist, and then the characteristic lesions of the two be- come commingled.