NON-PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 895 a little below the xiphoid cartilage; fluid pointed after several days, and was let out through an incision, one inch above the right abdominal ring. In other cases the matter spontaneously discharges itself through the original wound. In mild cases the inflammation or su[)puration may be limited to the immediate area of the wound, the constitutional symptoms being propor- tionately less severe; and convalescence sets in as soon as a free opening allows of the escape of matter. Treatment.—The treatment is the same as for incised wounds. If hemor- rhage is severe, or if there is reason to think from syncope or increasing tension of the tissues that free, deep-seated bleeding is going on, the punctured wound must be converted into an incised one, and the wounded vessel tied or twisted. The application of ice-cold dressings—or in old and enfeebled persons of warm fomentations—with opium to allay pain and induce physical and mental quietness, are the early remedies required. If inflammation occurs, relaxation of the muscles by position, absolute rest, leeches in large numbers—from flf- teen to thirty—and large, hot, anodyne fomentations, must be employed. The use of a simple milk diet, attention to the bowels—but not the adminis- tration of severe purgatives—and the employment of narcotics, constitute the rest of the treatment. As soon as matter has fonned it should be let out. Tonics, stimulants, and fresli air, are requisite after suppuration is thoroughly established. Lacerated wounds are occasioned by books, nails, or any form of tearing, such as is caused by macbinery and railway accidents, or by falls from car- riages or horseback, the person being dragged along whilst the abdomen is forcibly squeezed against or mutilated by some resisting substance. Symptoms.—These wounds are usually followed by consideralile suppura- tion of tlieir edges, and if large flaps or strips of integument are torn or ripped up, there is often much difliculty in bringing them nicely into contact. There is usually not much hemorrhage at the time, but secondary bleeding may occur as soon as the shock of the accident has passed, or when reaction is established. Pain is often severe, but like Iiemori-hage is uncertain in its existence and degree. These wounds never heal by first intention. Like punctured wounds, they are jn’one to be followed by inflammation and siqtpu- ration; sloughing too is very apt to follow. Occasionally all the layers of the abdominal parietes are torn up, leaving the peritoneum perfectly intact. Poland, in his Pothergillian Prize Essay, has recorded the following case :— A liealtliy ami tem|)erate baker, aged 38, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, liaving been violently dragged between the |)rojecting ledge of a butcher’s shop ami his cart. All the layers of the abdominal muscles were torn up in a line from the s|)inous process of the right ilium to the symphysis pubis, laying bear a large surface of the peritoneum, and ex|)Osing the front surface of the bladder. The peritoneum was not wounded, but the intestines were projecting it outwards. The S[>ei'inatic cord had esca[)cd injury. There had been much hemorrhage, and he was collapsed. The urine was drawn off untinged with blood. The wound was cleansed, the ragged muscles arranged as well as possible, and the edges brought together with sutures ; and the thiglis and shoulders were raised. Stimulants were given and warmth applied. He soon rallied from the collapse, and his pulse improved. In the night he was bled to ten ounces, and calomel and opium were ordered. On the following day the abdomen was very tender on pressure, es^jecially on the uninjured side, but there was no tension. Leeches were applied and castor-oil injection given, which producing no effect, a full dose of castor oil was administered, atid also an injection of salts ami senmi before the bowels were freely o[)ened. Some of the sutures were removed, and an offensive, thin, sanious serum mixed with bubbles ot air was evacuated. The abdomen was fomented, and warm water dressing applied over the wound, the cutaneous edges of which were kept in a|)- [)Osition by plaster. After going on well for five days his strength began to fail and his