1088 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. cysts, hydatid cysts, and adenomata of these parts have also been found. Moxon speaks of growths of supra-renal tissue “forming considerable tumors, say of the size of a chestnut, in or upon the supra-renal capsules.” These adenomatous new growths are single in each capsule, but both capsules may be similarly attected. Virchow, who looks upon the medullary part of the supra-renal capsules as allied to nerve-tissue, proposes to group its tumors amongst the gliomata. Surgical Kidney.—Many morbid conditions of the kidney, the results of disease of the urethra, prostate, or bladder; or occurring in cases of paralysis necessitating the use of the catheter, or after surgical operations upon the urinaiy organs, are grouped together under this head. Acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, uncomplicated with pyelitis or suppuration, and with or without dilatation of the kidney; suppurative nepliritis and pyelo-nephritis; and the tough, shrunken, scar-marked kidney which follows recovery from simple, acute, and chronic inflammation, are all included by authors under the term “surgical kidney.” For the anatomical characters of these several lesions, I must refer the reader to works on pathologjL Stricture, prostatic enlargement, vesical calculus, chronic cystitis from any cause, and various other diseases of the urinary organs, excite these lesions in the kidney, either by mechanically obstructing the urine, or by interfering with the renal circulation—either through the agency of the nerves or by changes in the intra-renal tension—or, again, by extension along the ureter to the kidney of putrefactive changes, which have commenced in the urethra or bladder. As the disease known as surgical kidney has often appeared to commence after a surgical operation whereby the uretlira or bladder is laid open, or after the introduction of a catheter, the admission of air, or of the agents of putrefac- tion contained in the air, is supposed to be an exciting cause. In some cases, the suppurative inflammation which occurs in the renal tract under these cir- cumstances is regarded as being of an erysipelatous nature, and due to the direct introduction of the poison through the catheter or operation wound. This question has been fully discussed in an able paper by my friend. Dr. Goodhart.' Though in the majority of cases, tlie acute morbid processes in the kidney can be traced to extension of inflammatory disease from the bladder upAvards, yet it is certain that in some instances of chronic disease in the lower urinary organs, the acute suppurative changes Avhich supervene in the kidney begin in that organ, and, as far as they aflect the ureter or bladder, do so only by extension dowinvards. These cases, too, are often most severe and even fatal. I have witnessed three or four such, and have followed them throughout their course to the post-mortem table. Symptoms.—The symptoms vary with the character of the anatomical lesions. In simple, chronic, interstitial nephritis, even Avhen associated Avith extreme sacculation of the kidney, there may be no symptom referable to that organ, except the low speciflc gravity of the urine, and, possibly, a lum- bar sAvelling detected on palpation. (See section on Hydronephrosis.) In the acute or subacute forms of the disease, especially Avhen suppuration occurs, the symptoms are more or less pronounced. They begin Avith a rigor, or eoine on insidiously Avith slight chills, AAdiile the temperature Avill rise at night to 101° or 103° F., and fall in the moriung, though not quite to the natu- ral standard. The patient becomes dyspeptic, flatulent, Aveak, and emaciated, witb a hot and often perspiring skin, offensive breath, loaded tongue, loss ot < Guy’s Hosp. Reports, 3d series, vol. xix.