OPERATIONS ON THE laDNEYS. 1091 recent origin, and was, I believe, first performed by myself and when pnl> lisliing tlie case in which I had employed it, I supposed that I had also for the first time proposed the name by which I had designated it. i\l. Hevin, however, in his exhaustive historical and critical researches upon nephrotomy, informs us that Schurigius,^ in speakiiig of the proposal to perform the same operation, had called it la nepliroUthotoiiiie. ihit ]M. Ilevin arrived at the conclusion that it was well nigh if not absolutely certain that cutting the kidney for stone had never been performd except iij cases in which an abscess- tumor, or an external fistula, was present in the loin.^ The name however seems to have been quite lost, and the proposed opera- tion lia<l been “ magisterially exploded’’"* by modern as well as ancient surgical authority, as may lie seen by perusing the works of the writers whom I have quoted in the article above referred to. Nephrectoniij (i-ffpoo kidney, ixti/j-ico, I cut out) is the complete removal of a kidney, either through an opening in the loin or by abdominal section. Nephrorraphij (vafpos, kidney, (jortt-w, I sew), consists in cutting down upon and exposing tlie kidney, and then stitching it to the edges of the wound in the parietes. It is undertaken with the object of fixing a floating or mova- ble kidney. 1‘UNCTURING THE KiDNEY.—This may be done with a trocar or with an aspirator. It is performed for the relief or cure of hj'dronephrosis and pyo- nephrosis; large, isolated, serous or blood cysts of the substance of the kidney; and hyilatid cysts. When from their degree of distension such swellings are causing serious consequences of pressure, or when there is risk of the cyst- wall rupturing, the contents ought to be evacuated. The point selected for puncturing will depend on circumstances. If there be any spot over the swelling which-is thin, soft, prominent, or fluctuating, the trocar should be there inserted. A point which is not seldom indicated is midway between the umbilicus and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, or half an inch below and an inch and a half to the side of the navel. When no particular spot is suggested Ijy discoloration or prominence, no better place can be selected, on the left side, than an inch in front of the last intercostal space; but if the tinnor be of the right si<le, this is too high, as the liver would be traversed. On the left side, the spleen, under onlinary circumstances, runs no risk of being punctured b}^ inserting the needle well in front of the eleventh intercostal sjjace, and if tlie spleen be projected forwards by the tumor, as I have sometimes seen it, it wiU'be detected in its abnormal position by palpation, and must of course be avoided. “ If there be no indication for operating elsewhere, I think the best spot to select, when the tumor is of the right kidney, is half way between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, between two and two and a half inches behind the anterior su|)erior s]fine of the ilium. This s[>ot is on a level with the front of the bodies of the lumliar vertebra, and a needle here passed horizontally inwards will be altogether in front of the kidney. It may, however, with safety be conjectured that, in any case of hydrone]»hi-osis of the right side rcquiriiuj to he tapped, if the trocar be inserted at this place and directed somewhat "for- wards, the peritoneum and colon will be suificiently in front to escape injury, tlie liver will be safely out of i-eacli above, and the kidney behind, while the dilated pelvis of the kidney will be tapped at its anterior and lower part.” ' Trans. Clin. Society, vol. xiv. p. 30. London, 1881. ^ Litholog. Hist.-Medic., cap. 13, par. i. 1720-32. Sur la ndplirntouiie, ou taille du rein. Meiuoires de I’Acad^mie Royale de Chirnro-ie t Hi p. 202. Paris, 181!). > ■ '* See Bernard’s account of Marclietti’s operation. Philosoidiical Ti-ansaotions, vol. xix.