1104 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. against lacerating tlie spleen-capsule and parenchyma; the latter is often very soft, and always readily bleeds. Tlie spleen having been withdrawn, a clamp should he fixed upon the pedicle and the mass cut away. The pedicle can now be examined without difficulty, and should be ligatured in two or more parts, with strong, twisted silk or whip-cord; the clamp should be removed, and the ligatures should be cut short and dropped back into the abdomen. All blood should now be removed from the abdominal cavitv by means of sponges, which should have been rendered thoroughly antiseptic. Tliroughout the pi'oceedings, a good assistant must take care that the intes- tines be not allowed to protrude at the wound. Finally, the external wound is to be closed with interrupted sutures, as after ovariotomy; and the wound should be dressed with some light, antiseptic material, such as boracic-acid charpie, salicjdic silk, or absorbent cotton-wool. The abdomen should be supported by a flannel roller. Adelmann proposes to divide the operation into two parts; first, the removal of the spleen from the abdomen through the smallest possible incision; second, after adhesions have formed, and the open- ing has been thereby closed, to separate the organ from the body. After the operation, the patient must be kept lying upon his back, with the knees slightly raised by a pillow, and the urine must be drawn off every five or six hours. The dieting should be the same as after every other large abdominal operation. Dangers of the Operation.—Hemorrhage may occur from a large vessel in the omentum, at a spot where it is adherent to the parietes at the seat of incision; from the rupture of some large vessel, such as the splenic vein; from the torn surface of the spleen itself; or, again, from the general surface of detached adhesions. In Mr. Bryant’s second case, hemorrhage from the rotten, sponge-like adhesions which had connected the spleen with the lower surface of the diaphragm, caused death in fifteen minutes. In Sir Spencer Wells’s case, a large artery was cut across in a piece of loosely adherent omen- tum, and afterwards the splenic vein gave way as the operator was twisting the spleen around to bring the vessels into a sort of cord before applying a liga- tui-e—a proceeding which this surgeon himself condemns.^ In more than one case, a part of the pancreas has been included in the clamp or ligatures applied to the splenic pedicle; this should be guarded against. Severe disturbance of the sympathetic nervous system has been witnessed in some eases; and severe and persistent vomiting has followed the operation. Attacks of faintness from ausemia have also been observed. As the length of time required for splenectomy is not great—often, indeed, less than half an hour—there is not the risk to life which is undergone, in some other opera- tions, from prolonged infiuenee of aneesthesia, or from prolonged exposure of the peritoneal cavity. The most frequent cause of death has been hemorrhage, in some period varying from a few minutes to sixteen or eighteen hours. Shock has caused death in other cases during the operation, or within less than twenty hours afterward; and peritonitis has killed a few others in from three to six days. The causes most suitable for splenectomy or splenotomy are those in which the spleen is involved in an injury, and the gland is, it may be, protruding through the abdominal wound. When splenectomy is performed for disease, floating spleen, simple hyper- trophy, and eidargement from malaria, give the best results. jM. Bean suc- cessfully removed a hyi)ertrophied gland containing a large cyst; his second case, also successful, was for simple hypertrophy. INIartin’s (Berlin) and 1 Med. Times aud Gazette, January 6, 1866, p. 4.