634 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. obliteration of neighboring cancelli, until a cyst of considerable size is pro- duced. One of the largest known is in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital; it is figured in Holmes’s System of Surgery. It extends from the symphysis to the condyle on the right side, and had existed for eighteen years. The multilocular cysts of the lower jaw appear to be more closely connected with the teeth than the single cysts, since in many cases the extraction of teeth or stumps gives exit to a quantity of glairy discharge. Distension and absorp- tion of the alveoli go on as the cysts increase in size, so that the walls at length become membranous, and the macerated bone shows great gaps in its outline. One remarkable clinical feature in these cases is the length of time over whicli they extend without materially affecting the health of the patient, except by their size and the consequent inconvenience produced. I have recently put on recoiTh the liistory of a cystic tumor of the low'er jaw, extend- ing over thirty years, the patient having had a portion of the right side of his jaw removed by Sir Wm. Fergusson in 1847, and having remained in good liealth for fifteen years. He then noticed the formation of a cyst in the incisor region, which was tapped from time to time by Sir Wm. Fergusson. The patient came under my care in 1877, when I found cystic disease of the sym- physis and left side of the body of the jaw, extending itp to tlie molar teeth. I then extracted all the remaining teeth and opened up the cysts freely,crushing in the walls and removing some solid material with the gouge. Considerable consolidation followed this proceeding, but a year afterwards a fresh develop- ment of cysts had taken place, and required a repetition of the operation, which was on this occasion followed by such good results that early in 1879 the jaw was completely consolidated, and the patient able to wear artificial teetb. Late i)i the same year, a rapidly groAving, round-celled sarcoma developed in the jaw, and was removed, but similar tumors developed in the humerus and pelvis, and the patiently gradually sank in 18J30. The liability of multilocular cysts of the loAver jaw to develop eventually solid tumors of an epithelial type, has been recently illustrated in my own practice in another case; and also in a case of so-called cj^stic sarcoma, I have seen, eleven years after, a recurrence in the skin of an epithelial cancer. These facts have led me to accept the views founded upon a microscopical examination, by Mr. Frederick Eve, of tumors removed by myself and others, in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, Avhich vieAvs are given at length in a lecture delivered at the College in 1881.^ Mr. Eve maintains that cases of multilocular cyst and of cystic sarcoma should be grouped together as examples of epitlielioma; and if that be so, there can be no ques- tion that complete removal of the affected portion of jaAv should be promptly undertaken, if any solid growth is found in connection with the cysts. Mason Warren and Butcher have shoAvn that by evacuating the contents of the cysts from Avithin the mouth, and crushing in the thin Avails Avith the fingers, a great amount of consolidation can be brought about, and, if the thick lower border of the jaw be unaffected, as it usually is, a very firm basis of support for artificial teeth may thus be obtained. The operation may bear repetition more tlian once in the early stage of the cystic disease, but is certainly unsafe as soon as the development of an epithelial tumor begins to show itself, Avhen more radical measures must be adopted. • British Medical Journal, May 22, I8S0. 2 Ibid., January, 1882.