INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 590 2. Accidental or acquired fistulas: of the neck may l)e due to wounds, inflammatory action, the presence of dead hone or cartilage, etc. Thej’ may occupy any position, and involve any of the structures or organs of the neck. Pus, mucus, air, or alimentary matters, may escape from their orifices. In chronic disease of the larynx, when attended by necrosis of cartilage or bone, very troublesome fistulse may form. Reference has, however, been already made in a previous part of this article to such aftections. Suppurations of any kind in the neck, especially those connected with glands, bursae, etc., may occasion the formation of fistulie. The suppuration of a small serous bursal sac lying between the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage, or of some of the small glands at the base of the tongue, may be the origin of a small hut very troublesome fistula seated in front of the larynx. Injections of various kinds have been employed with hut little effect, hut when, which is seldom the case from the depth or direction of the fistula, it is possible to excise it along with its deep terminal extremity, its closure may he secured. As a result of venereal ulcers, or of wounds made by the surgeon, or by accident, a small orifice may lead into the larynx or trachea. I had lately under my observation a patient in whom an opening large enough to admit the point of the little finger remained after a determined attempt at suicide, which removed a considerable portion of the cartilage. When such large fistulfe exist below the glottis, there is great risk of the upper part of the air- passage being in a great measure obliterated by contraction, and of the voice being lost. These fistulee, uidess very small, are difficult or impossible to close, and in cases where contraction has taken place above, it may not be safe to oblite- rate them, for fear of undue interference with respiration. Cauterization and plastic operations usually fail when the orifices are large. Many methods, however, have been tried. Relaton employed two flaps adjusted in the same way as in his well-known operation for urethral fistulae. Roux and Despres have introduced other plans. Jamieson’s suggestion has also been put into practice. This consists in rolling up and inserting into the pared orifice a narrow strip of tissue dissected from the neighborhood, ancl retaining its connection .at one end. It is fixed by a needle or sutures. Erichseifi describes a simple and useful method of oj)erating: “ The edges of the fistulous opening having been freely pared, and the knife passed under them for some distance so as to detach them from the subjacent parts, a ver- tical incision is made thi’ough the lower lip of the opening so as to split it downwards. Two points of suture are then inserted into each side of the horizontal incisions bringing their edges into contact, but the vertical cut is left free for discharges and mucus to drain through, and for the expired air to escape, lest emphysema occur. Unless this outlet is afforded, these fluids will burst through the sutures and destroy union of the edges.” QHsophageal fistulie are very rare, and need not be considered. Gunshot Wounds of the Reck. Gunshot wounds of the neck are not very uncommon in war. The vari- ous campaigns which, in Europe, America, and India, have afforded exten- sive fields for observation witliin the last quarter of a century, have abundantly illustrated the pathology of these wounds, but have not added much to our knowledge regarding their management. In the records of these wars, now accessible to all, the facts are clearly set foith, hut there is notliing which in this place specially calls for comment. Doubtless many of those who are Op. cit., vol. i. p. 422.