lilt) HERNIA. primal’}’ sac; or the sac may he constricted into two narrow, neck-like aper- tures {hourglass contraction), each resisting and capable of strangulating its contents. In the sac may be found almost any portion of the abdominal structures, even parts of the liver, kidney, or ovaries. The contents vary with the higher or lower position of the protrusion. In the greater number of cases, the intestine and omentum, or e2)iploon, form part of the contents {entero-epiplocele); but sometimes, in inguinal and crural hernia, the omentum forms the sole contents {epiplocele)^ or the intestine only may be found in the sac {enterocele). Frequency of Hernia.-—Abdominal hernial protrusions are very common. According to Malgaigne, one out of every 13 males, and one out of every 5*2 females, are atfected witli some kind of rupture; that is, about one in every 20 individuals. Of these, more than half are found between 40 and 80 years of age. In Ivingdon’s tables, from reports of the Truss Society, farmers and farm-laijorers are most subject to hernia of some form; next come ^lorters and gardeners, then cai’iienters and house servants. It is significant that all these occupations necessitate the frequent use of muscular jiower with the body in a bent jiosition on the legs. General Causes of Hernia. In by far the greater number of cases of inguinal and umbilical hernia, the occurrence of protrusion is ^ireceded by a condition resulting from arrest or delay of development, delaying the descent of the testicle beyond the time of birtli—when the body of the child becomes reversed from an inverted to a more or less upright 2>osition—and retarding the complete formation of the transversalis, internal oblique, and cremaster muscles, the closure of the deejier 02)ening being imperfectly effected, or the omiilialo-mesenteric and allantoid o^ienings being later in closing iq) than usual. Then the first efforts of the new-born infant, in crying and breathing, force out the smaller intestine, while undistended with food, into the 2)atulous jiassage, and retai'd or jDrevent its normal closure. In many cases in which tlie formative tendencies are rather more effectual, but still not complete, a bulgy condition of the groins, or of the umbilical dim^'le, remains during life, although the absence of other exciting causes may not effect a conq)lete hernial condition. An important })redisposing cause was pointed out by Ilichter, in an abnormal elongation, or low attachment, of the mesentery and omentum. This 02)erates in the case of inguinal and femoral riqitures by allowing the omentum, mesentery, and in- testine, to reacli furtlier down than is normal, and gives them liberty to force o}ien the inguinal and femoral ojienings under 2»ressure of the muscles. And it must be admitted that such a condition forms a 2)Owerful aid to the pro- duction of hernia in these situations. Hut that a normal formation and nor- mal connections of the mesentery and omentum will not })revcnt the protrusion of intestines, is witnessed in the };)erformance of the operation of abdominal sec- tion, or in accidental jienetrating wounds just above the 2)Hbis, where the opening is quite as far down as the inguinal oi^ening, and yet where protrusion occurs immediately upon contraction of the abdominal muscles. And on the other liand, such abnormal connections and elongations are frequently found in the j'ost-mortem room, in jiersons of advanced j^ears, in whom no hernia is found. These crucial instances show that when the abdominal 2)arietes are normal, the 2)ressure of the abdominal contents, however unrestrained by the connections of the viscera, are not sufficient of themselves to cause hernia, although they may constitute an im2)ortant subsidiai’y element in its jjroduc-