750 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. Gramdomatoiis Formations.—Pedunculated polypoid vegetations, rarely larger than peas, sometimes occur upon the intra-tracheal cicatrix, usually within two months after closure of the wound of tracheotomy. Microscopi- call}", they are similar to the cauliflower excrescences, or exuberant granula- tions, which so often occur around the edges and along the track of the wound, while tlie canula is in position, when the parts are not properly dressed—or which occur upon ulcerated portions of the mucous membrane under attrition by the tube—but they seem to acquire an epithelial investment sometimes covered with cilia. While histologically not veritable neoplasms, they may be regarded clinically as benign tumors, inasmuch as they produce the same symptoms, present the same dangers, and require the same treatment—namehq incision into the trachea, thorough evulsion, and cauterization of their points of implaiflation. They may even be reproduced on the second cicatrix, and thus necessitate a third tracheotomy.* These growths are sometimes described as polypi. They have been especially studied b}" Petel.^ Ivrishaber, St. Germain, Verneuil, and others, believe that these forma- tions proceed from intact mucous membi’ane, and thus antedate the trache- otomy. Millard and llarvejq and other observers, contend that they originate in blood-clots which become adherent. In a case communicated to me by Dr. A. II. Smith, of !Mew York, a deep-pink growth, the size of a currant, was seen, apparently attached to the left side of the cicatrix, six weeks after the tracheotom}". Streaks of blood appeared in the expectoration, and after cpiite a large clot of dark blood had been coughed up, the breathing became easy; and, on laryngoscopic examination, the growth was found to have dis- appeared. Petel records a growth discovered upon the tracheal surface of a traclieotomy-eicatrix iii the body of a man, sixty-nine years of age, who had committed suicide, but concerning whose previous history no details could be learned. The much more frequent granulomatous vegetations occurring after trache- otomy, have been discussed in connection with croup and diphtheria, among the causes which prevent early removal of the canula (page 711). They have been elaborately studied by Koch.® Malign Tumors.—Sarcoma and Carcinoma.—As will be seen by the first of the subjoined tables, short as it is, sarcoma seems to occur in the trachea Avith greater proportionate frequency than it does in the larynx; for the thousands of laryngeal growths reported include few sarcomata. The appa- reiit preponderance may be due to the circumstance that laryngeal groivtlis, being much more common, are less frequently reported or submitted to minute examination, and that thus some laryngeal sarcomas go unrecognized. The recorded cases of fibro-sarcoma, two in number, having been cured ivithout resort to radical measures, have been tabulated among those of benign growtli. Carcinoma of the trachea is rare as a primary disease, the cases collected in the second of the subjoined tables comprising all at my immediate command. It will be observed that it is most frequent in the upper portion of the tube, that it is most frequently located on the membranous wall, and that it is sometimes associated with primitive carcinoma of the bronchi. The records are too meagre to show the comparative frequency of the ditterent varieties. Males and females seem to be susceptible in equal proportions, and all the instances recorded have occurred in adults. 1 Koch, Archiv fiir klinisclie Chirurgie, Bd. xx. S. 542. 1877. 2 Des Polypes de la TracLee. Paris, 1879. 3 Loc. cit., S. 540-558.