RETRO-PERITONEAL EXTRAVASATION AND SUPPURATION. 947 mass in the pelvis, fixing or displacing the uterus, the os and cervix of which may he flattened against the symphysis puhis, or against the front of the abdo- minal wall immediately above the symphysis. As the extravasation increases, there are fulness, dulne*ss, tenderness, and a sense of resistance in one or both iliac fosspe, or in the hypogastric region, and extending sometimes even as high as the umbilicus. There is too in these cases a sense of hearing down about the pelvis, with frequent desire to evacuate the bowels and bladder, though nothing but mucus passes from the rectum, and retention frustrates the fre- quent desire to micturate. Occasionally the posterior vaginal wall is pressed (town as low as the perineum, or may even he prolapsed, by the enormous extravasation beneath the peritoneum in Douglas’s pouch. After some days the effused blood becomes more solid, and the tumor more irregular, and it is by degrees absorbed ; or after becoming harder, partly from coagulation and partly from inflammatory effusion around it, it may disintegrate and be even softer than when first poured out. Under these circumstances, the symptoms of retro-peritoneal suppuration will arise. The sources of blood vary in the different regions; but everywhere the retro-peritoneal tissues are rich in bloodvessels, and the anastomoses between the vessels of the parietes and those of the viscera are numerous and impor- tant, both in the loins and pelvis. The rupture of muscular tissue, such as that of the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lumhorum, is occasionally the cause of very free hemorrhage. Sometimes the blood is derived from one of the venous plexuses, namely, the uterine, ovarian, hemorrhoidal, vesical, or pros- tatic, or from the trunks or branches of the arteries to those organs. The rupture of an aneurism of the abdominal aorta is an occasional source of most extensive retro-peritoneal hemorrhage. The extent of the effusion in such cases is sometimes astounding, for the blood by degrees dissects up the peritoneum, and permeates the cellular tissue in every direction, causing the ribs and loins to bulge outwards ; it may also carry forwards the pos- terior and lateral layer of peritoneum, and the abdominal viscera, so that the abdomen protrudes in front; and it descends along the psoas and iliacus until a fluctuating tumor is formed in each groin, even lielow the level of Pou- part’s ligament. There is usually not the least pulsation in snch swellings, and unless tlie history of the case is known, the diagnosis is very difficult if not actually impossible. In some cases there may have been an attack of syncope to mark the bursting of the aneurism, but life may continue long after this, and the slow course of the disease, with the absence of every characteristic sign of aneurism, will probably lead to the supposition that the affection is malignant. Erosion of the vertebra} from the pressure of the aneurism may give rise to more or less pain, or even to some degree of curvature, and then there is a risk that the swelling in the iliac region, or in the course of the psoas muscle, may lead to the diagnosis of lumbar caries with abscess. To o[>en such a swelling on the supposition that it was an abscess, would of course be a serious, and might even prove a fatal, mistake. Sometimes there is nothing to indicate the exact time at which the aneurismal sac has given way, though from the lamination of the clot found in the tissues after death, it is certain that the Iflood must have been effused gradually, and for many weeks, perhaps some months, before death. The extravasation has been greatest in the cases in which the aneurism has been seated at some spot above the superior mesenteric artery. The mode of death may he from acute or chronic peritonitis, or from syncojje, but more generally from anaunia—the blood extravasated being as really lost to the individual as if it had escaped throu2;h an open wound. Still, as the effusion is gradual, the downward course of the patient is gradual