ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 1027 and at the post-mortem examination there was found a large abscess in the left iliac fossa, opening into the bowel two feet from the amis ; and from this abscess pus had bur- rowed down under Poupart’s ligament into the thigh, live inches below the anterior superior spinous process. This case shows that, oven though an abscess of this sort opens into the bowel, and free evacuation is followed by tippiarent convalescence, there may remain behind a residuum of disease, which may be easily aroused into further and fatal suppuration. 27or can one resist the conclusion drawn by Dr. Dowditch, that if an opening had been made at an early period, or even just before pointing and the tistulous opening into the intestine occurred, a fatal residt might have been prevented, nay, even a perfect cure etfected. 1 )r. Dowditch attributes the phthisis to the undermining of the health by the abscess and the prolonged discharge from it; but whether this was so or not, the impaii’cd health from lung-aiiection found a. focus for further mischief in the remains of the iliac abscess with its communication with the bowel; and one of the worst forms of abscess was soon induced, namely, a tympanitic, gurgling abscess, due to the ingress of fecal gas through the only existing aperture availalde for drainage. In some cases the symptoms simulate ilieumatic afiection of the hip-joint. Dr. Louis Atlee, who has given a concise account of iliac abscess in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences, October, 1883, there records a case of abscess in the left iliac fossa, after labor of thirty-six hours’ duration, in which for a month the illness was mistaken for rheumatic disease of the left hipi-joint. The case is of further interest as showing the burrowing character of iliac abscess, and as a set-off against Dr. Bowditch’s case; for in Dr. Atlee’s case, recovery took pilace after a slow convalescence:— A swelling appeared in the left iliac fossa eighteen days after the commencement of pain, and subsequently a left gluteal swelling was opened and a large quantity of pus escaped. At a later period, a swelling formed in the linea alba, midway between the umbilicus and jiubis, and after bursting discharged a [lint of pus. Kather more than three months after the commencement of the illness, a quantity of pus was discharged by the rectum, and from this time the patient slowly recovered. l\Ir. Mitchell Henry has published* the case of a sailor, aged 20, who came into the ^Middlesex Hospital on December 19, 1849, complaining of pain in the loins and left hip-joint, and moving so like a person laboring under morbus coxarius as to lead to his being classed among the [latients for admission into the surgical wards. Examination showing that there was no active disease of the hip-joint, he was sent into a medical ward, on the supposition that he might have disease of the kidney. It was found that he had been passing a large quantity of pus with his urine for three weeks ; on December 22, he began to pass blood with his water, and the [lurulent de^iosit continued ; on Decem- ber 2G, the blood hail ceased, but the [lus continued to [lass ; on January 3, he died in much agony, but conscious to tlie last. At the post-mortem examination, the abdominal cavity was found to be filled with pus from an abscess, and not the result of peritonitis. The peritoneum was in an early stage of general Inflammation. Tlie bladder contained pus, and was perforated just beneatli the peritoneum by an ulcer as large as a sixpence; and it thereby communicated with a large abscess in the situation of tlie left vesicula serninalis, which was nearly destroyed by siqipuration. There was no disease of any other structure or oi'gan in the body. Mr. Henry remarks, that, though acute inflamma- tion of the vesiculce seminales is not likely to occur, chronic inflammatory processes are not infrequent, and may occasion abscesses, the exact diagnosis of which must be diflicult. Such abscesses might be confounded with sup[)uration in the prostate gland, with disease of the hip-joint, with intra-pelvic abscess, and the like. He also describes a very similar case communicated to him by Mr. Cock, of Guy’s Hosjiital, in which hiji- joint disease had been thought to exist, but was decided by Mr. Cock not to be present; the abscess was detected and opened through the rectum, and the patient recovered. • Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiii. p. 30G.