715 BRONCHOTOMY : LARYNGOTOMY, TRACHEOTOMY, ETC. blood from flowing down the air-passage. The head is to he supported in the two hands of an attendant, who kneels on a cushion in front of the operating table ; the mouth must be kept open by a speculum or dilator, and the tongue be held up with blunt forceps so that it shall not cover the palate and thereby im})ede respiration. The operator takes a seat in front of the patient’s head, and operates by reversed incisions. Unwarrantable dread of hemorrhage has led a number of practitioners to substitute the incandescent cauteiy for the knife in making their way down to the air-tube. Thus, some have used the })otential cautery,* and others the electro-caustic knife,- the electro-caustic loop,^ or the thermo-cautery.^ Fur- thermore, Dujardin used a caustic paste,'* Chassaignac employed the kra- seur,® and Guerin proposed a subcutaneous tracheotomy.'* On the other hand, so little dread of hemorrhage is felt by soiue operators, that they trans- fix the parts and plunge the knife into the windpipe, right through all the coverings, and divide all the tissues in a single cut; but fatal results some- times follow this procedure. De Saint Germain claims to have performed tracheotomy by one movement in 227 cases, without a single grave accident due to the operation.® The late Dr. Krishaber, of Paris, informed me, that he regarded this operation as perfectly safe in children under live years of age, in whom he considered the vessels too small to present much danger. It seems to me, however, that in the very cases in which this procedure is most employed—cases of croup and diphtheria—the character of the wound would often prevent that proper search for false mendu-ane which should precede the introduction of a cauula, while the dilatation of tlie wound, neces- sary in case of accident to hunt for bleeding vessels, would render the entire operation much more serious than a deliberate dissection in the first instance. Similar objections present themselves to the instantaneous use of tracheotomes. Instantaneous tracheotomy, as practised by Chassaignac, Isambert, and others, is performed by fixing the tracliea with a grooved tenaculum, secured directly beneath the cricoid cartilage, and then penetrating the windpipe by a direct puncture along the groove, through all the intervening tissue. Though often successful, the posterior wall of the trachea is sometimes severed in the incision. Krishaber employed a knife grooved along the back, so that the escape of air might advise him that its point was within the air-tube. The following deliberate method of operating seems to me sufficiently rapid for most purposes. Under favorable conditions I have frequently completed the procedure within three minutes, but complications occasionally prolong the operation for half an hour or more. The patient being placed in position, and Ids head being steadied l)y an assistant whose duty it must l)e to keep it strictly in the middle line, the operator takes his position at the right side of the patient, and the chief assistant at the left. Two methods are employed in making the preliminary incision through the skin and superficial fascia. In the one, the integument is held up in a transverse fold between the otherwise disengaged tlminb aird forefinger of the operator and his assistant, and is then divided by thrusting a bistoury through its base and cutting from below upward. In the otlier, which I think preferable, the integument is made tense by spreading the ' LeClerc, Revue Med., 1861 ; cited Ijy Kiilm, in Giintlier’s Lehre von den blutigen Operationen, Bd. V. Leipzig und Heidelberg, 1864. 2 Verneuil, Bull, de I’Acad. de Med., p. 299. 1872 ; Bull, de Therap)., p). 472. 1872 ; Volto- lini, Berlin, klin. Woeb., Bd. ix. S. 11 ; Lancet, 1872. ® Amussat, Arch. Gen. de Med., .Janv. 1873 ; Tillaux, Gaz. des Hiip., 1874. '* Krishaber, Annales des M.aladies de 1’ Oreille, du Larynx, etc. Paris, 1876-7-8 ; Poiusot, Bull, de la Societe de Chirurgie, t. iii. No. 6 ; Lancet, 1878. ® Kiilm, op. cit. 6 Med. Times and Gaz., 1872. * Gaz. des Hop)., 5 Janv. 1881 ; Medical Record, March 19, 1881, p). 319. ’ Ibid.