(EDEMA OF THE LARYNX. 653 In subglottic oedema of the laiynx, laryngoscopic in- spection reveals projecting tumors beneath the vocal bands. (Fig. 1029.) The affections from which oedema of the larynx is to be discriminated are thymic asthma, stridulous laryngitis, croup, the presence of a foreign body in the air-passage, that of a tumor in the larynx, and compres- sion of the air-passage by an aneurism of the aorta or of the innominate artery. The history of the attack, and inspection with the laryngoscope, will usually suffice for diagnosis. In antelaryngoscopic days, the symp- toms due to compression from aneurism were sometimes attributed to reclema of the larynx (Cruveilhier), and tracheotomy even was performed in consequence. (Lawrence, Chejnie.) Prognosis.—The danger of suffocation, which may come on with little warning, or with none at all, renders the prognosis grave whenever the oedema is extensive or bilateral, or attended with spasm of the glottis. Suffocation has been known to occur at the apparent onset of the mdema, hefore it has been possible to know what was the matter. Left to itself, a serious case of oedema will be apt to terminate fatally in from three to five days, sometimes by suffocative apnoea, sometimes by slow apnoea, sometimes by supercar- bonization of the blood, even after the respiration has become comparatively tranquil. Idiopathic, serous oedema, in robust subjects, affords a favorable prognosis, provided that prompt measures are taken for relief. Sero-purulent and puru- lent oedema offer a far less favorable prognosis. That of the mdema attending aneurisms, malignant tumors, and tuberculosis, is always unfavorable. The prognosis is doubtful in the deuteropathic mdema of acute constitutional disorders, such as enteric fever, smallpox, scarlatina, and erysipelas. Loth immediate and ultimate prognosis are less favorable in subglottic than in supraglottic oedema. The prognosis of chronic (edema of the larynx is not so immediately serious as that of acute oedema, but the hope of ultimate recovery is much slighter; and tracheotomy may be indicated for the permanent establish- ment of an artificial opening for respiration. Treatment.—The best treatment for oedema of the larynx is to make a few punctures or incisions into the tumid mass, with’a well-curved knife protected to within a line or two of its point, so as to give vent to the ffuid. Special knives have been constructed for the pui’pose, which are easier to mani}>ulate, but in an emergency a gum-lancet will be found (juite efficient. If practica- ble, the little operation should be performed under guidance of laryngoscopy; otherwise the forefinger of the disengaged hand may be relied upon as the guide for the knife. It is not necessary to make an intra-laryngeal cut for oedema of the aryteno-epiglottic fold. An incision in the exterior wall will do just as well, and will avoid the entrance of blood into the air-[>assage. A little spasm follows the cut, and seems to help force the serum out. The hemorrhage is insignificant in most instances, amounting usually to less than a drachm, and rarely to more than two or three ; but occasionally the bleeding may be profuse, and may require persistent coughing to expel it.^ Bleeding is more apt to be profuse from scarification of the epiglottis than from scari- fication of the aryteno-epiglottic fold. When the hemorrhage is slight, it may Fig. 1029. Subglottic oedema of the larynx. ^ Cohen, op. cit., j>. 401.