INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ORBIT. 191 nature of the reaction must he kept 'in view, in the rational treatment. I’erfect quiet, warm poultices, often changed, anodynes, tonics, etc., inwardly, are the safest remedies. A¥hen the time comes for making incisions, they must be resorted to boldly, but not blindly. If erysipelas has extended to the orbit, the same local treatment and suitable internal remedies must be tried. If a penetrating wound is the starting point, the track must be dilated by means of grooved director and bistoury. Should the presence of a foreign body in the cavity be detected, it should he removed as quickly as possible. If caries of the bony orbit, or periosteal abscess, is at the bottom of the pro- cess, the chief attention is to he directed to that cause. The origin of this form of aliscess is usually syphilitic, and the progress is very slow. The history, and a close observation of the course of the disease, will establish the diagnosis a)id direct the therapeutics. Evidences of dead and detached bone must be watched for wdth a view to its prompt removal. Deformity, in such a case, is inevitable. I introduce the following illustrative cases :—■ I was consulted by an elderly lady, in very feeble liealtli, for total blindness of both eyes. She had lost the sight some months before, during an attack of erysipelas of the face. Tliere liad been great protrusion of the eyes, and a discharge of matter through the lids, leaving retracted cicatrices. By inspection with the ophthalmoscope, I found tlie optic papilla in either eye very white, the vessels small, the margins ragged, and the surrounding retina hazy, sliowing the previous existence of neuro-retinitis. Facial erysipelas, extending to the cellulo-adipose tissue in the orbits, had destroyed the sight of both eyes. As showing the danger to sight in spontaneous orbital cellulitis and ab- scess, I give the points of a ease that occurred during the war:—- A man of 50 years sent for me in January, 1864, for severe swelling of the right eye. According to the patient’s own account, he had been attacked witli erysipelas of tlie face, in the course of whicli the inflammatory exophtlialmus had made its appearance. From careful examination into tlie history of tlie attack, and an ins])e.ction of the face, I was convinced tliat the man had been seized with s[)ontaneous inflammation and sup- puration of the cellular tissue of the orbit, and that tlie swelling of the face and lids was but synqitomatic of the orbital abscess. The globe was protruded directly forward and entirely immovable ; the pupil was dilated and fixed, and all percejition of light had vanished. The slightest pressure of the eye backwards or against the orbit pro- duceil excessive pain. Fluctuation was detected at the upper and inner, as well as at the lower and outer part of the orbit. Free incisions were made and pus escaped from both points. The patient recovered in a few weeks, but the eye was completely amaurotic. There was abundant exudation in the optic papilla and surrounding retina and choroid. Some weeks afterwards, atroidiy of the jiapilla afipeared. A woman of 28 years was attacked two weeks after confiinement by severe pain behind the right eye, with rapid swelling and loss of sight. When J saw her, a week after, I found the eye much protruded and immovable; enormous chemosis and swelling of tlie eyelids ; almost complete insensibility of the cornea, with slight liaziness ; discoloration of the iris; pupil moderately large, but filled with lymph; no perception of light; severe pain on pressing the globe backwards. As the eye was already lost, I made no incisions. Three days after, under poulticing, pus began to discharge tlirough the con- junctiva oculi, with occasional shreds of necrosed cellular tissue. About a week after this, when the swelling had very much abated and the eye had retreated considerably, tlie cornea became badly infiltrated, and soon sloughed away, leaving a shrunken globe. A stout laborer was struck by the fist on the outer part of the orbit. Decided exophtlialmus soon followed. The eye was limited in its movements, and very painful when pushed backwards. A few days after, fluctuation was felt through the upper and lower eyelids. I made free incisions, as usual, with discharge of matter. Excepting some symblepharon and slight inqiairment of sight, this patient got well.