HERNIA. 1136 above the tumor, free from swelling and hernial impulse. If the cyst be Avitbin the canal, the diagnosis is more difficult. A cyst, hoAvever, is less changeable in size and position than a rupture; it is more tense, less com- pressible than hernia, Avhether omental or intestinal, and Avhen it possesses a cough-impulse, it is not a dilating impulse, but a communicated one from above doAvmvards. If not adherent, the hernia disappears Avhen the patient lies down, and reappears on his standing up; Avhereas a cyst, although less prominent, is persistent in the recumbent posture. A scrotal hernia may be mistaken, Avhen irreducible, for a hydrocele or h.ydro- sarcocele. Its history aids the diagnosis; a hernia descends from above, and at first comes and goes Avith the change from the standing to the lying position, Avliereas a hydrocele begins beloAv and groAvs upAvai’ds, reaching the inguinal canal by its pyriform prolongation only Avhen A’ery large, Avhen it ma}^ be more easily detected by its translucency, fluctuation, and more heaA^y Aveight. It also more completely obscures the testicle to the sight and feel. A con- genital scrotal rupture may also do this, if adherent, and if its contents are altered by inflammatory etfusion, either solid or fluid, and it is in this latter condition that it is most likely to give rise to doubt, especially Avhen some fluid effusion is present in the sac, or in the contained boAvel. The condition of the cord at the superficial ring, and that of the inguinal canal, Avill help the surgeon to distinguish such perplexing cases. If the cord be free from SAvell- ing, and of normal size, and the canal undistended, the case cannot be one of hernia. In cases of sarcocele, or of malignant deposit in the testicle and cord, hoAvever, the cord in the canal may be thickened and hard, but its feel will be in these respects different from the large, soft, cylindrical SAAmlling due to the presence of omentum or boAvel. The history of the case and the other symptoms Avill generally make the diagnosis clear under such circumstances, and, if necessaiy, the use of a small aspirator-tube to draAV off any fluid Avhich may be present, ma^yjustiflably be had recourse to. An elongated, irreducible, omental hernia may be hastil}" mistaken for a varicocele^ or the tAvo ma}" coexist. The feel of the latter has been compared to the vermicular elasticity of a bag of live Avorms, Avhile that of an omental hernia is doughy and lumpy, like that of a bag of dead Avorms. If reducible, the hernia, as Avell as the varicocele, disappears Avhen the patient lies doA\m. If then the finger be placed and kept on the cord at the superficial ring, and tlie patient be made to stand up, tlie omentum Avill be kept liack, Avhile the varicocele Avill sloAvly return and become even more distended than before. If the omentum be irreducible, it Avill not of course disappear on the assump- tion of the horizontal }iosture. The I’are cases of diffused, hydrocele of the spermatic cord^ extending along the unobliterated canal of Auck, present more difficulties, especially in chil- dren, Avhere this condition assumes the form of Avhat is often called a Avindy rupture. It is prominent in the erect posture, and disappears by the passage of the fluid into the peritoneal cavity in the liorizontal posture. "When the ])atient stands up and coughs, there is an impulse closely resembling that of hernia. By the aid of a candle, hoAvever, the great and uniform translucency of the tumor, and also its distinct fluctuation, distinguish it from hernia, and draAving off the fluid by a small aspirating needle at once clears up any remaining doulfl. If the fluid be in the sac of a congenital hernia, Avith an unobliterated Amginal process, the intestine or omentum Avill then descend and occupy a i)Osition in front of the testis. The symptoms of Ixcmatocele resemble those of Ipydro-sarcocele, or hydro- cele, except for the al)sence of translucency and, perlia]is, of fluctuation, and for the presence of more pain, heat, and tenderness. Cases of acute hydro- cele, after injury, may simulate scrotal hernia under similar conditions,