236 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. plastic exudation, or to both. It is not easy to tell, by simple inspection, whether adhesions of the iris to the lens capsule are present, and to what extent. Hence the value of atropine, in the diagnosis. If no synechia exists, the pupil will dilate circularly, and eventually largely. But if hound down, the points of adhesion will remain fixed, while the free portions dilate. This gives the pupil a strikingly irregular form, and makes their presence positive. By the use of atropine and ohlicpie illumination, the adhesions can he seen with great satisfaction. Iritis is practically divided into plastic, suppurative, and serous. These forms sometimes exist together. The idastic is distinguished by a free eftu- sion of lymph, with prompt and firm adhesions to the capsule, and false membrane in the pupil; the sujypurative by hypopium; the serous by less marked ciliary injection, less pain usually, and a more insidious course. Like- wise, with turbidness of the acpieous, and dimmed vision, there are seen groups of minute, dirty points of precipitates on the membrane of Descemet. These are best seen by oblkpie illumination, and through a magnifying lens. In serous iritis, there is often an associated disease of the ciliary body and choroid, with increased tension of the globe. This glaucomatous hardness is a very serious complication, and the surgeon should never fail to search for it every day. Its possible development should make us cautious in the use of atropine, which increases the tension. Its actual presence forbids atropine altogether, and calls for eserine, which diminishes intra-ocular pressure. When this complication arises in serous iritis, the pupil becomes dilated and sluggish, but even then slight adhesions with the capsule may form. There are likely to be inflammatory deposits in the extreme rim of the anterior chamber, and peripheral adhesions between the iris and cornea, with obliteration of Fontana’s spaces. This is said to arrest the filtration of fluids from the eye, and to give rise to increased tension. In sympathetic ophthalmia, serous iritis is much less dangerous and more controllable than the plastic variety, which nearly alwa3's leads to blindness. The so-called condylomatous variety (gummatous) is nearly always syphilitic. There may be but one nodule, or many. If numerous and large, thej^ rest against tlie cornea, and completely fill the anterioi’ chamber, as I have seen in a few cases. They are always permanently glued to the lens, and the iris-tissue afterwards undergoes atroph}^ to a high degree. Sometimes h}"po- pium is associated with them, and ma}" rarely be the result of an abscess of the iris bursting into the acpieous chamber. In the etiology of iritis, syphilis is bj^ far the most prolific cause. After this come the rheumatic diathesis and scrofula. Of course an injuiy may occur and produce its effect in any constitution. Iritis from injury is apt to be mild, except when irritated by a traumatic cataract, or by a foreign body in the eye. As a syphilitic disease, iritis usually is one of the so-called secondary manifestations. It may be present with ulcerated throat, eruptions on the skin, and falling away of the hair; but not infrequently it precedes all of these lesions, while in other cases it follows them at some clistance. The presence of iritis in any given case does not prove the existence of syphilis, but should always aivaken thoughtful inquiry. The diagnosis settled, and the etiology cleared up as well as possible, we inquire, what is t\ie p?^ognosis of iritis when left to itself? Its tendency is to recovery, but with permanent adliesions and some impairment of sight; besides, any remaining synechia increases the tendency to repeated relapses, and to final destruction of vision, giving rise at a later period to choroiditis and to glaucoma. Treatment of Iritis.—This divides itself into local and constitutional. The main indication, of course, is to cut the disease short, if possible, and save the