338 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE EAR, middle ear, may be explained by the assumption that the inflammation has followed the course of the mastoid emissary veins. Finally, I have still to mention the close proximity of the facial canal to the mastoid cells. In the immediate neighborhood of the mouth of the antrum, this canal turns sharply from its previous horizontal course, and passes directly downward through the pneumatic and diploetic cells of the mastoid bone. It is therefore easy to understand why the fa- cial nerve should be particularly liable to participate in any pathological changes that may take place in the mastoid cells. Although the antrum and the tympanic cavity proper are, to all intents and pur- poses, one and the same region, and although we have no just grounds for believing that, in an acute inflammation of the middle ear, the larger cavity of the tympanum is much more actively involved in the disease than the smaller cavity of the antrum, we are apt, it appears to me, to entertain this very belief. Our patients would fare better, I am confident, if we adopted the more rational view, and utilized the degree of inflammation presented by the drum-membrane and visible, adjacent parts, as a fairly true measure of that which must at the same time be going on in the antrum. In this connection,.however, we must remember that in a few exceptional cases the membrana tympani may show compara- tively insignificant evidences of inflammation, and yet an abscess may be present in the adjacent mastoid process. The mechanical relations of the tympanum proper, the antrum, and the pneumatic cells of the mastoid process, exert a determining influence upon the course of the inflammation that may from any cause be excited in them. At almost the very outset of such an inflammation, the only natural outlet which these cavities possess, viz., the Eustachian tube, becomes closed by the swelling of its walls. The conditions then are those of an inflammation taking place in a cavity whose walls, at every point but one, consist of unyielding bone. The membrana tympani represents the only point at which the accumulating products of the inflammation can force a way of escape for themselves. In a few instances the case may be in even a worse plight than that which I have just described. For example, the mouth of the antrum, or the mouths of the numerous pneumatic cavities which open directly into the antrum, may become closed ; in which event the establishment of even a very free opening in the mem- brana tympani would fail to ailbrd an exit for the secretions confined in those more remotely situated cavities. This occurrence is, I believe, not uncommon. The cpiestion then presents itself, what is likely to be the succession of pathological events if the products of inflammation are allowed to remain pent up in these cavities ? If we possess some knowledge with regard to the individual’s previous aural history, we may form a tolerabl}' correct notion of what is likely to take place in these inflamed parts. In an individual who has not been subject to frequent or prolonged attacks of discharge from the ear, we may assume that the pneumatic cells still contained air at the time of the attack. In that case, the inflammatory exudation in the cells will soon change from a mere bloody serum to a thick pus, and, as the pressure increases, the lining mucous membrane of many of the cells will die and break down into purulent detritus. Even the thin bony parti- tions may soften and become detached. At all events, loose fragments of the Fig. 901. Relations of facial canal to middle ear proper and mastoid cells ; oblique, vertical section of temporal bone.