45 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. Fig. 82y. The anterior division proceeds to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal hone,' while the other branch, passing much more posteriorly, ramifies over the whole of the parietal, and also sends branches to the contiguous portions of the frontal and occipital bones. From these anatomical considerations, it will be seen that extensive extravasations of blood may arise from rupture of the middle meningeal artery, from lines of fracture which do not involve the anterior inferior angle of the parietal, but whicli run across some of the large branches just mentioned. From wliatever source proceeding, the hemorrhage is large in amount from the extensive, coexistent separation of the dui-a mater.^ The clot forms a “ hard, gi’anular mass, breaking down with great difficulty, even under heavy pressure, and adhering most tirmly to the parts between which it is lying.” The subjacent brain itself, in a large extravasation, is de- pressed in a cup-like manner, and the convolutions of the brain are apparently flattened. The statement that hemorrhage from laceration of the great menin- geal artery may cease from compression by the resultant clot, after a small effusion of blood, is probably purely theoretical.'' If the patient survives, the clot becomes decolorized and absorbed, to judge from the appearances presented by one case reported.'' Punctured wounds, as from a penknife blade or fragment of glass, have been reported, where death resulted from ex- tensive effusion due to a division of one of the large meningeal branches.® Symptoms.—These are very variable, being dependent ujion the greater or less rapidity of the sanguineous effusion, and are, in brief, those of compression. With marked collapse and consequent feeble circulation—perhaps from the small size of the effusion—the ordinary [)henomena may lie delayed for hours, even days. The symptoms differ from those conse quent upon depression of bone, or the pressure of a foreign body, in not being immediate. Thus, after a blow upon the head, the ordinary phenomena of concus- sion are observed. W ith the feeble cir- culation the effusion is very slight, but, as reaction takes place, the blood rapidly collects between the dura mater and the bone. The patient usually regains complete consciousness, but the symptoms of concussion may, in some instances, become so merged with those of corn})ression, that a differential diagnosis between compression from depressed bone, suberanial hemorrhage, and contusion of the brain, is impossible. (In such cases, the elevation of depressed fragments often gives vent to extravasated blood, which is then seen to have been the cause of the symptoms of conq)ression, rather than the displaced bone.) Soon, generally within half an hour—although, when the tiow is gradual, the brain accommodates itself to the pressure, so that many Panctured fracture of skull liy a piece of glass, with wound of iiiiJdie meningeal artery. (From a specimen belonging to Prof. Conner, of Cincinnati.) ' The groove in which the vessel lies is often converted into a hony canal, thus rendering rupture of the artery almost certain when this portion of tlie hone is broken. 2 Although the primary separation effected by the blood is the chief factor in this condition, yet a collection of fluid blood, once formed between the dura mater and the bone, and communi- cating with an open artery, must, upon well-known hydrostatic principles, tend to extend, and to dissect off’ the memhrane still further until clotting occurs. ^ S. W. Gross reports two cases, in priyate j.iractice, with large clots, where the blood llowed freely from the trephine holes, desjiite the clots. ^ llewett, op. cit. ^ Conner, Cincinnati Lancet and Clinic, Jan. 5, 1884.