147 DISEASES OF THE SKULL, ETC. different morbid appearances under a common head. I will now deal with these four aspects of disease in detail. 1. Under this heading are classed sinvple hypertrophies^ using that term in its purest sense. Of general, true hypertrophy of the skull, I know only one example. It is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. This skull is hypertrophied in every part. In structure the bones ai)pear rpiite normal; the hypertrophy is uniform and accurately symmetrical, every bone and every point of a bone being in all parts evenly increased in size; the base is as much affected as the vault; all parts, therefore, of the cranium, bear to one another their normal relations, and, indeed, the only feature is pathologi- cal exaggeration. Of the cause of this condition nothing is known. It is a true hypertrophy of normal bone. Examples of local, true hypertrophy are common enough. The enlargement of certain parts of the skull, especially of the frontal bones, consequent upon atrophy of the brain, may be placed under this head.* In some of these cases, the increase in tliickiiess of the bone appears to be mainly effected by the inner table. In other instances—which can hardly be called true hypertrophies—there is a deposit of new bone upon the internal plate, thus causing much thickening. The instances of thickening of the skull bones after the subsidence of hydrocephalus are also, as a rule, instances of this last-mentioned condition. 2. In so-called general concentric hype)'ostosis there is no alteration in the form of the skull, and no increase in the tliickness of the component bones. There is, however, a great condensation of bone tissue, so that the diploe becomes as compact as the tables that inclose it, and the skull on section pre- sents an uniform, ivory-like aspect. The sutures are generally oblitei’ated. Thus are formed those compact, heavy skulls, of which specimens exist in most pathological museums. The change is usually limited to the vault, but is then evenly distributed over its entire area. It is most common in advanced life. Of its cause, nothing is known, and its recognition is impos- sible during life. This condition of the bone is often ascribed to a blow, or to syphilis, but I am aware of no evidence to sujiport such suggestions. Chronic cranitis often causes a lirnited condensation of tlie diploe, luit in such cases the adjacent bone-tissue shows evidence of inilammation, and it is hardly possible to conceive a cranitis that would evenly and precisely involve every part of the vault, and yet cause no symptoms, and be asso- ciated with no changes on the surface of either of the skull-plates. 3. The term osteo-porosis has been applied to the condition found in certain large, thick skulls with obliterated sutures, the bones of which on section appear uniform, and tinely porous, and, to use a comparison of Sir James Paget’s, very like white brick. The general sliape of the skull is, as a rule, not altered, but the thickness of the component bones may be extreme, and represent four or five times the normal width on section. In tlie Musee Uujiuytren is a skull, for example, four centimetres in thickness. Both the surfaces of the bones are generally smooth, but the vascular channels on the inner talde are greatly increased in depth. The change is, more or less, entirely limited to the vault, altliougli, in some cases, the base may lie impli- cated. This condition of skull, known by some as diffuse excentric hyper- ostosis, is the outcome of several different diseases, among which may be placed, with some certainty, (1) osteitis deformans; (2) osteomalacia ; and (3) a peculiar form of rickets (?), occurring in animals. ' See cases in Meil.-Chir. Trans., vol. xix. p. 367. 1833; also in article “Cervean,” by M. Potain, Diet. EncycTop., p. 294. Paris, 1873. In Noveniiier, 1881, Mr. Pearce Gould exliii)ited at tlie Path. Soc. of London, the occipital bone from a patient witli conginiital absence of one lobe of the cerebellum. The hone showed a true hypertrophy at the part corresponding to the absent lobe.