1070 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. ' Daly’s case, Trans. Clin. Soc., vol. x. p. 11. * Murchison, op. cit., p. 500. The tumor caused by the accumulation of this fluid is generally painless, but not always so ; and it is sometimes tender to the touch. Though the patient sutlers headache, sickness, and constipation, and grows thin, the tumor is unattended by febrile disturbance, and is thus distinguishable from an abscess. Its formation is commonly preceded by biliary colic, and this symptom, with the situation of the tumor, distinguishes it from the kind of enlargement for which it is most likely to be mistaken—namely, a hydatid cyst. When examined with the patient under chloroform, the gall-bladder, whether distended by bile or by this dropsical fluid, is often freely movable in a lateral direction, and, though its base is fixed, the fundus and apex can be sometimes pushed across to the left of the middle line. On percussion, a tympanitic note is elicited on the sides of and below the tumor. If the distension be caused by obstruction at the neck of the gall-bladder, or in the cystic duct, jaundice will not be present. Distension of the Gall-bladder avith Pus.—This subject having been en- tered into when considering Biliary Abscess, need not be further discussed here. Distension of the Gall-bladder avith Calculi.—The mode of formation of gall-stones is an unsettled cpiestion, hut it is probable that they result from precipitation from the bile, either as the effect of a diminished amount of cholate of sodium in the bile, or as a conci'etioii around any foreign bodj", such as inspissated mucus or blood-clot, in the same way that urinary calculi are formed. Gall-stones are composed of cholesterine, bile pigment, and earthy matter. Some are formed of pure cholesterine, and are then translucent, crystalline bodies ; but most gall-stones, especially if of any size, are composed of all three substances, and are of a yelloAvish, broAvnisli, or black color. Often the centre of a gall-stone is black, as if of pure pigment, and from it lighter lines radiate; sometimes layers of crystalline cholesterine and pigment regularly alternate. When the gall-bladder is distended Avith or contains several stones, they are polygonal, Avith smooth facets from the attrition or ])ressure of one against another. The tumor formed by an aggregation of gall-stones, is hard and nodulated, and resisting. On palpation it gives a peculiar, crackling sensation, and a sound Avhich has been compared to that caused by rolling small pebbles about in the mouth. The tumor does not vary in size from time to time, ex- cept that it increases, Avhich it does very slowly. It is usually movable, and, though not ahvays, is sometimes the seat of much pain ; but Avhether actually painful or not, uneasy sensations are generally experienced over the hepatic or renal region from time to time. Jaundice is a common s3miptom, and a history of biliaiy colic is generally given. In some instances attacks of colic attended with agonizing pain occur at regular inteiwals throughout the course of the case.^ In some there is a sensation of a heavy weight rolling from side to side in the situation of the gall-bladder, on turning in hed.^ Vomiting is often excited, and the tumor has been knoAvn to cause all the symptoms of stricture of the pylorus. Mental depression, hypochondriasis, and symptoms suggestive of disease even in distant organs and parts of the hod}^, may be caused in nervous persons h}^ accumulated gall-stones. If ulceration is set up ly the calculi, local peritonitis Avith acute pain must he looked for. In other cases the inflammation leads to A^ery great h}'pertroj)hy of the coats of the gall-bladder, which have been found to be even half an inch thick.