BRONCIiOIOMY: LARYNGOTOMY, TRACHEOTOMY, ETC. 719 the thumb and fingers of one hand, at the same time making the skin tense, an<l then incises the integument and fascia longitudinally for the distance of an inch or an inch and a half in the median line, so that the nnddle third of the cut shall uncover the ligament. The ligament is then freed from any super- imposed tissue undivided in the primary incision. The communicating branch of the two crico-th^n-oid arteries is now pushed aside, or secured by torsion, or ligatures if need be, and the ligament is divided by a transverse or a longitinlinal cut as the case may demand. Should the opening he insuffi- cient, a cross-cut is made. Some surgeons prefer an incision along the cricoid cartilage, others one along the thyroid cartilage. The latter procedure should be preceded by ligation of the two crico-thyroid arteries. In incising the ligament tlie knife-blade shonld be made to penetrate into the larynx, for the ligamentous structure retracts immediately upon section, and otherwise a second cut may become necessary to divide the inucons mendjrane. There is no risk of hemorrhage, save from the communicating branch of the two crico-thyroid arteries; but although usually slight, serious and even fatal bleeding from tliis source has been recorded.^ Tiiyroid-laryxgotomy.—Division of the thyroid cartilage is an operation much less difficult than tracheotomy. Care is to be exercised lest the vocal bands be nnnecessarily wonnded. The patient being in position, and the assistants placed as in tracheotomy, the snrgeon makes a median, longitudinal incision throngh skin and fascia, extending from the hyoid bone to just below the cricoid cartilage. Upon sep- arating these tissues, it is well to look Avhether any exceptional, anomalous vessel crosses the field of operation, and if snch Ite the case to secure it l>y torsion or by ligature. A sharp-pointed knife is now thrust, blade ipiward, through the crico-thyroid ligament just beneath the median line of the thy- roid cartilage, and the latter is then divided by an upward, sawing incision. If preferred, a probe-pointed knife may be substituted for this purpose. In either case, the middle line must he strictly maintained to avoid wounding the vocal Ixinds. The knife must be a strong one. I have used a pair of probe-pointed, angnlar scissors very satisfactorily, in this stage of the opera- tion. \Chen the cartilage is so ossified as to resist section with the kidfe, a stout pair of angular scissors, or even a pair of bone-scissors, may be necessary to effect the division. Krishaher and others prefer to effect the divisif)ii of the cartilage from the outside, Avhether by successive strokes Avith the kiufe, or by means of a small saAv, in cases of ossification. The great advantage is said to bo avoidance of the congliing Avliich often complicates division after penetration of the larynx. AV^hen divided, the tAvo halves of the carti- lage are to be separated l)y strong blunt hooks, or other retractors, so as to admit of Avhatever operation in tlie interioi- of the larynx may be rerpiired. An ingenious device of I)r. Cutter's^ consists in two pairs of steel foi'ks Avith the tines turned into Ijlunt hooks, one of Avhich can be placed above a vocal band on each side and one below it. Hhonld it be necessary to perform Avhat ITcine^ has termed a resection of the larynx, the perichondrium is loosened Avith an elevator upon both sides of the tAvo halves, as far as may he requisite, and the exposed cartilage is then removed Avith bone-pliers or saAv, as may be required. IjARYXgo-traciieotomy is performed much more readily than traclieotom}', and is rarely attended Avitli severe hemorrhage. It has long been thought ' Fergusson, System of Practical Surgery, p. 47!). Phil.adelpliia, 1853. 2 Am. .Jour. Med. Sci., January, 18(17. ^ Arch. f. klin. Cliir., Bd. xix. S. 51‘