INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 582 AVheii the epiglottis is divided, besides tlie danger of suffocation, the speech, respiration, and deglutition, will be affected, and the latter perhaps rendered impossible by spasmodic cough. A wound in this region gapes more or less, and the food (especially liquids) will probably escape. If the thyroid vessels, jugular veins, and thyroid body are involved, the hemorrhage will be very profuse and probably fatal. The recurrent laryngeal nerves may also be implicated. Thirst is a frequent, though not universal, complaint in these wounds, and there is great risk of serious complications such as diffuse cellulitis, producing great swelling and oedema, and attended with great constitutional disturbance. The edges of incised wounds are often very irregular, from the skin not having been stretched at the time it was cut. Suicidal wounds are especiallj^ apt to be attended by serious complications, on account of the state of health of the patients who are their subjects. Such wounds are frequently intticted during a period of temporary insanity caused by intemperance, when the whole system is out of order. The air-passages have been wounded in every possible wajq and with wounds of the most diverse descriptions. Every species of wound has been met with, and foreign bodies of many sorts have been driven in from without. The records of surgery sup})ly a curious collection of such accidents. The surgeon niakes his incisions in the axis of the windpipe, but homicidal and suicidal wounds are usually more or less transverse. Suicides sometimes so hack and cut the throat that portions of the carti- lages may be wholly detached and removed, as occurred in an extreme degree in a case under my own care. These wounds may be very irregular, and attended with much laceration of the soft parts. If the larynx or trachea are only partially divided, the wound will not gape much, but if the division be complete (which is not common), the separation of the lips may be very considerable. The (esophagus may be severed as well as the air-tube, by one stroke of the knife. I saw this lesion in the case of an intemperate surgeon who com- mitted suicide, and who, from notes found among his papers, had evidently studied the sulqect carefully. The whole of the tissues on both sides of the neck, including the great bloodvessels, were divided, and even the spinal column was marked by the blade of a long, sharp amputating knife which he had used. When the wound is sufficiently deep to implicate the air-pas- sages, the complications which may occur early or late are gaping, bleeding (which will vary with the direction and extent of the wound), and the escape of air and mucus, and possibly of alimentary matters, if the wound be high in the neck. A})honia and various alterations of the voice, together with difficulty of breathing and emphysema, may also be present. The latter condition will appear when the oriffce is so nan’ow as to allow the air more readily to penetrate the cellular tissue than to escape externally, and in that case it may possibly extend far and wide, especially downwards along the trachea and oesoj)hagus into the mediastinum, and, according to Ilorteloup, it may even reach the scrotum. Death will be rapid if the great bloodvessels are lai’gely opened, but when the wound is small, life may be saved by fainting. Secoial- ary hemorrhage, days or weeks afterwards, may end life. Effusion into the glottis and cellular tissue is one of the menacing dangers, especially in narrow ivounds. The whole interior of the air-passages, from the glottis to the minute divisions of the bronchial tubes, may become involved, as well as the substance of the lung itself. This may be due to the mere extension of the inffammation, or to the admission of cold air, or of foreign bodies. Suppuration too may eventually arise at the wound, and pus may dissect its way far and near in the cellular tissue of the neck. If recovery from these conditions follows, permanent contraction of the air-passages, with