372 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. mucous membrane, simple steam, or warm, atomized inhalations, may occa- sionally be indicated. Robinson recommends dry, cold inhalations of volatile • Fig. 929. Kobinson’s tube for insufflation of nares. matters in old catarrhal inflammations of the nasal fossae, and says that excessive secretion is diminished by their use to a notable degree. Diseases of the jSTasal Passages. Acute Coryza.—Sudden exposure to a draft of cold, damp air, especially when the body is overheated, or the sudden chilling of any part of the cuta- neous surface—especially of the extremities—under the same conditions, is all- eflicient, even in healthy individuals, in bringing about an acute inflamma- tion of the Schneiderian mucous membrane, which may remain in exceptional cases confined to one nasal passage, but usually affects both, and not infre- quently extends thence into the neighboring cavities of the nose, and even involves the Eustachian tubes; other causes, in rarer instances, produce the same effects. Acute coryza is one of the earliest manifestations in several of the exanthematous fevers. Attacks of an obstinate character are produced by the inhalation of irritating gases and vapors, dusts, and powders; a pecu- liar idiosyncrasy often exists in respect to the irritation caused by certain drugs, such as ipecacuanha and iodine in some individuals. The internal use of iodide of potassium may cause an acute coryza, and the same is true of other mineral poisons. Trousseau has called attention to the relationship existing between asthma and coryza, and the latter is often the direct result of tlie extension of a catarrhal inflammation from contiguous mucous sur- faces, such as the conjunctival, or that of the pharynx. As one of the initial manifestations of congenital s^qihilis, it is seen in the infant; and recently Mackenzie^ has called attention to the influence of irritation of the sexual apparatus as an etiological factor in its production. Usually sporadic, it may become epidemic under special conditions of the atmosphere. The question of its contagiousness has attracted some attention, and is still held in dispute.^ Robinson believes that when encountered among the early conditions which point to the development of an acute, general disease of epidemic nature, it is so without doubt, just as the disease of which it forms an integral part; and that even when sporadic, and when not followed by ulterior symptoms, there is a probability of its being communicable. All practitioners will unquestionalfly recall instances in which the aflection has developed successively, not simultaneously, in members of the same familjq without other reason than the mere fact of its presence in some one person. 1 Am. Jour. Med. Sciences, April, 1884. * Blackwell, Med. Record, Jan. 10, 1880.