FATTY TUMORS OF THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 955 coramiinicate with, localized collections of pus -within the cavity of the peri- toneum. This association is, perhaps, especially seen in that form of retro- peritoneal suppuration which originates in ulceration and perforation of the duodenum; but it occurs also from other causes and in other parts. An illustrative case was admitted under the care of Dr. Cayley into the Middlesex Hospital:— A draper’s assistant, aged twenty-six, had enjoyed good liealtli with tlie exception of a severe attack of epigastric pain about one year before admission. This had invalided him for six weeks. Six days before admission he was seized with acute pain in the stomach, which prevented him from walking home ; it lasted all night, but abated in the morning, when he went to business again. In tlie evening, however, the pain recurred, and continued. The bowels were constipated, and he was sick. On admis- sion, he had acute pain across the belly, and in the right iliac region ; the abdomen was very tender, especially in the epigastrium, where there was considerable fulness also. A distinct resistance was felt in the right iliac fossa, which was dull on percus- sion ; elsewhere the abdomen was tympanitic. In the course of a few days empyema and pneumothorax of the right side developed ; an opening into the pleura was made, and was followed up by removal of a part of the eighth rib ; sloughing spread upwards to the neck, and downwards to the crest of the ilium along the right side of the back ; and death ensued within a month from admission. At the post-mortem examination, the edge of the right lobe of the liver was found adherent to tlie parietal peritoneum, and there was an abscess-cavity containing fetid gas, and about three ounces of jnirulent fluid. This cavit)' was limited on the inner side by the suspensory ligament of the liver, above by the diaphragm, and below and behind by the liver. It had two openings, one of which communicated with the duodenum, one inch from the pylorus, on its posterior wall, by a sinus one and one-half inches long which just admitted a probe, and which passed inwards to the gut beneath the edge of the liver. The transvei'se colon was firmly adherent to the liver and parts around, and helped to form one wall of this sinus. Tlie other opening admitteil a No. 12 catheter, was on the up[)er and outer asfiect of the sac, on a level with the seventh rib, and connected the abscess-sac with the right pleural cavity. The walls of the sac were tliickened, opaque, injected, and covered with false membrane. It had evidently existed a long time. There was general peritonitis. Tlie right chest contained offensive pus, and the pleura was covered witli greenish colored lymph. The opening into the chest between the seventh and ninth ribs com- municated with the sloughing retro-peritoneal tissue in tlie back. The clinical history of this case, read by the light of the post-mortem examination, points to nlceration of the duodenum as the cause of the sup- puration in the cellular tissue Ijehind that part of the bowel; and this in turn excited inflammatory adhesions about the colon, and inside the perito- neum, and the abscess-sac above described. All this took place in the illness twelve months before death; then came tlie fresh attack, which led to the bursting of the intra-peritoneal abscess through the diaphragm, and thus to the fatal empyema. In other somewhat similar cases, death has arisen from bursting of the abscess into the pericardium or peritoneum. Fatty Tumors of the Abdominal Cavity. A few cases of fatty tumor of large size, occupying a considerable part of the abdominal cavity, have been recorded. The London Pathological Society’s 'I'ransactions contain three such, and in the Lancet for 1883, one was reported. They grow slowly and painlessly for a long while, hut at length by their hulk cause abdominal tenderness, with loss of flesh and of appetite, and produce pressure upon vessels and viscera of the abdomen. They have been known to undergo both fibrous and osseous degeneration; and their removal during life has been attempted. They appear to grow from the peritoneum.