522 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. stant contact of the tongue, and the lodgment of particles of food. For this purpose, a metallic or vulcanite plate must be fitted to the mouth, so as to cover without pressing against the atfected part. This is even more impor- tant wdien a small exfoliation with perforation has taken jfiace, for even then if the parts are healthy a cure may thus be efiected. Any attempt to plug such an aperture must inevitably lead to its rapid enlargement, and, if per- sisted in, will cause absorption of the entire palatine process, as in a specimen in the museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, London. Tumors of the Palate.—A case of ■papillary tmnor of the hard palate has been described by Salter, 'which, as it recurred, was probably an example of true papilloma. A few cases of congenital tumor of the palate are recorded, one of the most recent being an example of dermoid tumor^ springing from the upper surface of the soft palate, in a child of three years. It ivas removed by Mr. Morrant Baker, and was exhibited at the Pathological Society of London, in April, 1881, by Dr. Hale White, who described the tumor as two inches in length, with a wide base, and consisting of epidermis, papillae, corium, and fat, and having on one surface a plate of cartilage. In the museum of St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital, is a section of a boy’s head with a large lobed tumor of myxomatous structure in the soft palate, which sufibcated the patient by obstructing the larynx. The glandular structure of the soft palate, 'which in health forms a consider- able portion of its thickness, may become hypertrophied and form a tumor; and this, from its position, may give rise to great inconvenience by inter- fering with the voice and deglutition. A case of the kind was under my notice for some months, in the person of a married lady aged thirty-four, other'wise in good health. As the tumor slowly increased and interfered with her profession as a vocalist, I thought it right to interfere, and in July, 1879, having taken the precaution to perform tracheotomy, and to introduce Trendelenburg’s tampon to obviate the entry of blood into the windpipe, I incised the tumor, and was agreeably surprised to find that I was able to turn out with the finger, from between the layers of the palate, a soft mass of gland structure, distinctly encapsuled, afterwards withdrawing the containing cyst. The patient made a good recovery, and has remained well since. Encysted tumors, probably of the same nature, have been met with in the hard palate. Sarcoma of the round-celled variety afiects both the hard and soft palate. I had recently under my care a child of seven, with a tumor of the right side of the soft palate, which had been punctured under the idea that it was an abscess. It closely resemliled the tumor in the preceding case, externally, hut upon cutting into it I found it extensively attached, and a small portion removed for examination proved it to he a round-celled sarcoma. The child survived six months. In a woman aged forty-eight, who had a tumor of the hard palate, the size of a horse-chestnut, wliicli had been noticed from childhood but had latterly increased rapidly, I succeeded in removing the growth, which proved to be a round-celled sarcoma, and, by the application of the actual cautery to the hone from which it sprang, induced a superficial exfoliation with, I believe, a jiermanent cure.* A similar specimen, removed by Sir Wm. FergussOn, is in the museum of the Loyal College of Surgeons. Dr. David Foulis,^ of Glasgow, has recorded the case of a man aged thirty, from whom he successfully removed a round-celled sarcoma involving the right side of the soft palate and tonsil, thi'ough an incision carried horizon- tally from the angle of the mouth, with division of the angle of the lower jaw. 1 Lancet, November 18, 1876. 2 British Medical Journal, Oct. 12, 1878.