INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN, 964 organ, are all causes of vesico-alxlominal fistula, that is, of fistula opening external]}' upon some part of the alxlominal wall, and communicating with the bladder. (a) Dr. Otis’ gives records of a number of very satisfactory recoveries after shot-wounds of the bladder. In several of them the missile traversed the distended bladder obliquely, passing in at the right or left side of the hypo- gastrium and out at the opposite buttock; in some instances the ball entered above the ])ubis; in one it passed in at the iliac fossa and perforated the fun- dus of the bladder on its way out at the opposite buttock. In some of these cases the wounds healed very rapidly, urine escaping from one or both orifices, but generally from the supra-pubic, for a short time, and the wound then closing without ultimate derangement of the function of the bladder. In others a trouljlesome urinary fistula remained for two or three years, and then permanently closed. In some cases the patients recovered, but with persistent urinary fistulre, the persistence of which was in several instances due to the presence of dead bone, though in others there was neither the presence of dead bone nor any other foreign source of irritation. Other patients are reported as recovering from recto-vesical fistulte from gunshot v’ounds, early in some cases, but in others the fistula remaiinng pervious for long periods. The learned historian of the War of the Rebellion remarks: “It is rare to find the functions of tlie bladder perfectly restored after shot injury.’’ (b) Stricture of the urethra may lead to ulceration of the parietes of the bladder, and this to an external fistula. Sir Benj. Brodie mentions that, in cases of old and neglected stricture, abscesses may form above the pubis, owing to vesical ulceration; and he adds that the surgeon may be deceived into fancying that the supra-pubic tumour is a distended bladder. (c) Sir Prescott Hewett has described^ a case of urinary abdominal fistula after rupture of the bladder. A man aged fifty-three suffered rupture of the bladder beliind the pubis, and by the twelfth day afterwards three distinct tumors had formed in the lower part of the front of the belly. An incision was made into one in the left iliac region, and about three pints of fetid pus with large sloughs wei’e let out. Urine afterwards passed through this open- ing. The man died on the twenty-third day. (d) A foreign body may find its way from the bladder by ulceration, and lead to a fistula in the groin. An interesting case is mentioned by Sir Ilans Sloane in his reply to the Marquis de Caumont, who had sent Sir Hans “ a very remarkable stone taken out of a man’s bladder after death.” Sir Hans writes^ “I have likewise a common pin which by some means or other had got into the bladder of a young woman, and was there coated all over by a calculous matter; Imt having occasioned a fistulous ulcer in her groin, it was discharged thence with the matter of the fistula.” (e) In other cases a foreign body may ulcerate into the bladder, and like- wise tlirough the abdominal parietes, and thus give rise to a vesical urinary fistida. A very remarkalile case was related by M. Hip})olyte Larrey, before the Academie de Medecine, of a dermoid cyst of the ovary complicated by a urinary fistula in the median line of the abdomen, half way between the [»ubis and the umbilicus. It occurred in a ])reviously quite healthy woman, aged 33, who had borne three children, and had had rapid recoveries after her confinements. Some days after the third, however, she felt a severe pain with heat and swelling in the left iliac region, and pus was passed with the urine. For five years "all symptoms subsided ; then the tumor increased, and ' Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Part II. Surgical Vol., p. 264. 2 Trans. Path. Soo. Lond., vol. ii. p. 228. 3 Philos. Trans., vol xl. p. 375. 1737-1738.