CONTUSIONS OF THE CHEST. 799 In the next degree of injury, contusion of the lung occurs with effusion of blood into the parenchyma of the lung, and possibly into the air-cells near the pleural surface ; but when these conditions exist alone, they in most cases escape diagnosis during life. In the dead body, when other causes have proved fatal, it is not uncommon to find limited blood-extravasations in the tissue of the lung beneath an unbroken pleura, the result of direct or indirect injury. In graver injuries, blood may be efiused in cpiantity sufficiently large be- neath the unbroken pleura, into a lacerated pulmonary parencliyma, to give an appearance, when seen shortly after the injury, somewhat similar to pul- monary apoplexy, or, should the patient live, to yield many of the signs of circumscribed pneumonia, combined with those of a vomica. Indeed, in practice, the phenomenon that indicates such a lesion is the occurrence of sputa not unlike those of pneumonia, appearing a few days after a chest- injury has been inflicted, without the constitutional disturbance of that disease, in a case in fact otherwise progressing favorably. Such a complica- tion attracts attention, and a careful and minute examination detects an area of duhiess, of crepitation, and it may be of metallic sounds, such as a cavity yields. Here the disintegration of a blood-clot yields the color to the sputa, and but for its appearance the complication might go unobserved, and the })atient be none the worse for the neglect. In these injuries, and even in extensive pulmonary ruptures produced by contusion or by fractured ribs, the coughing up of blood immediately, as in penetrating wounds, is comparatively rare, probably because the injuries are usually inflicted on the external surface of the lung, and remote from the larger bronchi. In this variety of injury, the pleura being unbroken, there may yet 1)0 em[ihysema of areolar tissue, originating either in the root of the neck or in the epigastric region, the air passing through the root of the lung into the mediastinum, and so reaching upwards or downwards. In injuries of a more advanced type, where the lung and its envelope are freely torn, the rationale of the process, when the rilis or sternum are unbroken, is not quite easily given. Writers, dating from Smith and (losselin, have offered two explana- tions: to the earlier we have already referred—namely, the analogy su[)pose<l to exist between the lacerations of the brain without fracture of the skull, which are so often seen in so-called cases of concussion, and the lacei-ations of thoracic viscera. Gosselin, who is followed l >y more modern writers—Courtois, Follin, and others—rejects this theory, and seemingly on good grounds, viz., the total want of correspondence between the structures of the containing walls of the cavities and of their contents. Rejecting this theory, Gosselin holds that the ruptures of the lungs are, in these eases, direct or indirect, at the seat of the blow or remote from it; and that the condition necessary for either to occur is the closure of the glottis during the period of concussion; in this state the air, being inclosed in the tliorax, when suddenly compressed bursts the lung and its envelope, as one may burst an inflated paper liag be- tween the hands. A difficulty arises in accepting this theory, when wo con- sider that the sup})orters of it range contusions of tlie lung without fracture in a progressive series, admitting tlie direct action of the contusion as a force com])otent to produce the lesser injuries, while to explain the greater lesions of the same group, the occluded glottis is introduced as a new element in the coml)ination of conditions. The experiment of Courtois—tlie removal of the lungs and trachea from the liody, and striking them while the trachea is closed or open—adds but little weight to the theory, for under such circum- stances the anatomical surroundings are all changed, and the laws which govern the paper bag, inflated or open, are alone those which apply. A greater difficulty arises when we study tlie corresponding lesions of the heart