1015 ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. creased resistance and weight, long before the abscess is large or prominent enoiuih to give rise to any altere(i outline of the flank or abdomen. Deep- seated and often paroxysmal pain ushers in the disease; the |)ain may vanish for days or weeks, and then recur. A feeling of weight in the side is some- times complained of by the patient, and I have seen a*dema of the foot and ankle precede for many weeks the slightest sign of prominence in the loin. An inability to extend the thigh of the aflected side has also in my experi- ence occasionally been an early sign. The skin in the loin is often waxen and mdematous, unless the matter makes its way to the surface, and then it becomes congested. After a time, deep-seated fluctuation may be detected in place of the hard resistance previously felt; hut tliis will depend much upon the thickness of the superjacent parietes. I have known as many as six pints of pus pent up, presumably for several iveeks, in a perinephric abscess, and yet no fluctuation could be made out, owing to the enormous layer of subcu- taneous fat. In this case an abscess in the testis of the same side for weeks preceded, and healed before the detection of, the perinephric abscess. The urine atfords but a very imperfect guide, because, in the flrst place, it may have been long changed by antecedent vesical or renal disease, and because, in the second place, if the cause of the perinephric inflammation does not reside in the urinary organs, the urine itself may be cpiite normal; or at most there may be but a diminution in the quantity excreted, or it may contain some albumen as a residt of pressure on the renal vein. When abscess follows injury to the kidney, the urine, which at flrst ma}' have been blood-stained, may contain pus after suppuration lias become established. The frecj^uency of urinary complications, as seen from Dr. Duffln’s list of 20 cases, was as follows: 2 patients had bloody urine; 6 had free pus in the urine; 2 had vesical irritation; 5 had renal disease without bladder signs; 12 were without urinary trouble of any sort. In the 2 cases in which blood was voided with the urine, the abscess was excited by severe injury to the loin. The pus contained in these abscesses is sometimes odorless, in others fetid; and owing to the close proximity of the colon even a fecal odor may he present without a flstulous communication with the bowel existing. Some- times lung symptoms on the affected side mask all others, and the case ap- pears at first sight to he one of pneumonia. Terminations.—The prognosis is alwa}'s grave. The duration of the dis- ease varies from two or tliree weeks to many months. If the abscess lie opened, or burst externally, or in a favorable direction internalljq recovery may ensue, unless the cause of the abscess he incurable. When scrofulous disease of the kidney, or complete disorganization from impacted calculi, is the exciting cause, recovery may follow nephrectomy. If the abscess l)ursts into the lung, colon, or ureter, immediate relief from the general and local symptoms is experienced; and recovery may follow the discharge of pus in coughing, or by the bowel, or with the urine. On the other hand, it is possible, though fortunately not common, that fresh suppuration may be lighted up l)y extravasation of feees^ or urine into the abscess, and a fatal ter- mination arise from pyiemia, septicsemia, or gangrene of the lung. If the abscess burst into the peritoneum, "fatal peritonitis is the result; if into the pleural cavity, empyema will kill the patient. Death sometimes occurs from blood-poisoning, or from exhaustion; or it may be caused by the effects of pressure before the al)scess has been opened, or has ruptured in any dii’ection. Chest-complications are very common in these, as in suh-dia- [ihragmatic peritoneal abscesses. Compared with the frequency with which perinephric abscesses [)erforate ' See a typical case of tliis sort in the appendix fo Dr. Bnwditcli’s article on perinepliritic abscess, in tlie First Med. and Surg. Report of tlie Boston City Hospital.