INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. noG 2 Gazette des Ilopitaux, No. 60. 1879. the descent of the organ, and the vessels of tlic pedicle are narrowed or ohliter- atcd. The spleen forms adhesions in its new site, and owing to the interfer- ence with the circulation in the splenic vessels, the gland atrophies and degenerates. Death may occur from continued traction upon the fundus of the stomach, or from gangrene of the spleen. As splenectomy is unjustitiahle in leukamiia, and yet as the hlood of the splenic veins contains a larger proportion of white corpuscles than the rest of the blood, it has been proposed to cut olf this excess of white corpuscles by bringing about an atrophic change in the spleen by some otlier operative measure. Thus it has been suggested that a ligature should he placed upon the splenic artery ; but apart from the dithculty of tying the vessel, with the abdomen largely filled with an enlarged spleen, there is the fear that the spleen would necrose and cause death, as in some cases of twisted pedicle with splenic dislocation. Electricity has been locally applied to the spleen, hut though the patients so treated have expressed themselves as relieved by the application, and have begged for its continuance, no permanent thera- peutical efiects have been produced. A diminution in the size of the S})leen has been frequently noticed after the ap}ilication, and in fourteen out of eigh- teen observations recorded by Dr. Vivian Poore, the number of white corpus- cles was increased after tlie use of electricity. As Dr. I’oore therefore remarks, it seems probable that the contraction of the spleen results in a forcing of the leucocytes into the general blood-current, and as the red corpuscles are dimin- ished, it goes to show that the function of tlie spleen is destructive of red corpuscles.' Another mode of operating upon the spleen in leueocythsemia and hypertro- phy, is the injection of drugs into its substance. Hammond obtained rapid reduction in bulk by injecting ergot. A parenchymatous injection of one gramme of sclerotic acid was followed by deatli in six hours, and at the post-mortem examination no infarct and only a little reddish zone at one of the punctures was found. The spleen was leucoeythfemic. Mosler, of Greifswald, prefers Fowler’s solution to ergot, and has used it successfully in four cases ; he applies ice to the spleen before injecting. Kussmaul, of Strasbourg, tried a repetition of simple punctures with a large needle, hoping thus to produce hemorrhagic infarcts, and a considerable shrinking and reduction in size as the consequence; hut the result was disap- pointing. Galvano-puncture has not been more successful. Dr. Emanuel, of St. Louis, reports a good result from the internal use of ergot; thirty drops of the extract were given three times a day, and the dose was gradually increased to sixty dro})S. The patient, a gentleman aged forty-tliree, had a greatly enlarged spleen, which in a fortnight nearly filled the abdomen ; hut about ten days after the treatment by ergot was com- menced, it resumed its natural size.^ Pylorectomv or Partial Gastrectomy. This operation was first ])erformed by Pean,^ of Paris, in 1879, hut his patient died on the fifth day; the first successful results were obtained l)y Billroth and Wdlfler. The attention of surgeons has since been drawn to ' Lancet, June 23, 1883, p. 1081. 2 Ibid., September 30, 1882.