INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 612 or from the presence of large bloodvessels, and even if it can be managed it may prove abortive from the low point at wbicb the compression acts, and from the narrowing wbicb the windpipe has undergone, or, perhaps, from the tumor having passed behind the trachea. The longitudinal division of the tissues lying over the windpipe in the middle line, or the subcutaneous severance of the aponeurosis and muscles “ at the seat of greatest constriction,” have been suggested, but these measures are open to very obvious objections when we consider the disposition, situation, and structure of the growth which is the cause of the pressure. Exophthalmic Goitre.—In that form of goitre described by Basedow and Graves, and commonly knoAvn as exophthalmic goitre, or the goitre of spa- nsemia, the protrusion of the eyeball is a marked and characteristic feature. The patients most liable to it are females AAdiose health has been depressed by loss of blood, feeble digestion, leucorrhoea, prolonged mental anxiety, or overwork. The lieart is usually irritable, and it may have its cavities dilated and its sounds altered. The pulse is weak and rapid. There is excessive action of the great arteries in the neck, and the patient complains of throb- bing in the head, tinnitus aurium, palpitation, and great nervous depression. The cause of the pi’otrusion of the eyeballs has been much discussed. The distension of the bloodvessels Avithin the orbit, and possibly hyperplasia of the cellular tissue and fat there, have been credited Avith producing this effect, Avhile changes in the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic haAm also been said to account for it. iS’o single condition, hoAveA’er, has been found so constantly as to projjerly be considered the true and im^ariable cause, though there seems good reason to supitose that the chief phenomena Avhich mark the affection are referable to morbid chano-es in the middle and loAver SRU- o , o , glia of the sympathetic nerve. It is, hoAvever, as bearing on the thyroid body that this curious disease comes to be spoken of here. The thyroid becomes enlarged, though rarely to any great degree. It becomes A^ery Avas- cular, and is often covered by large, prominent A'eins. It may be markedly moved by the pulsations of the neighboring great arteries, and may undergo increase Avith any excitement in the circulation. One lobe may be specially enlarged. It is usually soft at first, but AAdien of long standing may become A^ery hard and resistant. It seldom suppurates, but may inflame or break doAvn; and if the surface gives Avay, a Avery malignant-looking sore ma}' be the consecpience. The etiology and pathology of this disease are as yet A^ery unsatisfactorily determined, iiotAvithstanding all the labor Avliich has been expended on it, and the treatment is mainly based on an endeavor to improAve the general health and recruit the blood, and so diminish the nervous exhaus- tion Avliich is so marked a condition. Attention to the digestion, the diet, and the hj^gienic surroundings of the iiatient, the avoidance of mental strain, the arrest of all AAvasting discharges, and the administration of iron, digitalis, and strychnia, either separately or combined, or cpiinine and belladonna, have been found most useful. Iodine has also been employed, but it is in iron, digitalis, and stryclinia that confidence is most placed. Ice has, in the early stages, been much used for this enlargement of the thyroid, and iodine, Avith compression, in the later conditions of the gland. The state of the thyroid Avill, hoAvever, depend mainly on the condition of the general health, so that it is to its amendment that attention should be chiefly directed.^ 1 See Graves, Clinical Medicine; Dublin Hospital Gaz., June, I860; Stokes, Diseases of the Heart; Virchow, Die cellular Pathologie ; Laycock, Brit, and Fo'r. Med.-Chir. Review, 1864, and Medical Times and Gaz. vol. ii. 1864 ; Trousseau, Clinique Medicale ; Greene, Medical Record, 1871 ; Buffalo Med. Journal, 1851 ; Beghie, Practitioner ; Charcot, Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1856 ; and Trousseau. Ibid.. 1862.