415 NASAL CALCULI, OR RHINOLITES. forced into these passages at dates long antecedent to their discovery, and which have in process of time liecome nuclei for deposits consisting, accord- ing to Demarr|uay,^ of phosphates of lime and magnesium, chloride of sodium, and the carbonates of lime, magnesium, and sodium—in other words, essentially the sediments of the saline portion of the serum of the blood. IN’umerous cases may he found scattered through medical literature, in some of which the calculus has attained an extraordinary size, even that of a pigeon’s egg, weighing three or four drachms. Man}’ of the earlier cases are cited by Demarquay, in his elaborate work. Bartholin, quoted by Clo- quet,^ relates the instance of a young woman, who, after sutfering a long time from headache, passed from her nose several calculi, which, in size and and shape, resemlded date-stones. Clauder witnessed the case of a woman, who expelled from her nose, a very hard, round concretion, as large as a hazel-nut. Khern mentions several pisiform calculi which had escaped from the nostrils of a young person suffering from a violent headache. Riedlin, D’Ulm, Buchner, Plater, Watson, and others, add similar instances. Savialles informs us of a case of the same kind, which had for its nucleus a foreign body introduced into the nose from without. Some remarkable cases are to be found in the Contributions to Patliology and Surgery^ of IMr. Hawkins. Roe^ reports an instance occurring in a young woman, in which tlie rhinolite weighed, after removal, forty grains. Two instances of my own have beoi alluded to above. Although in all of these cases, as has been stated, some foreign body introduced from without has probably formed the nucleus of the concretion, and although this is the common cause of tlie formation, Watson® holds that it is ])Ossible that the crusts formed in fetid catarrli or oztena, may, when retained for a lengtliened period, become consolidated, and sul)scquently encrusted with the carbonates and phosphates of lime; but he admits that such instances must Ije rare. Two cases which he records seem to bear out this view. IN^asal calculi may be formed in any of the various passages of the nose; they may even originate in the frontal or maxillary sinuses, and pass thence into the nasal canal, or lie formed beneath the pituitary membrane, lying imbedded in the tissues; as a rule, however, they are formed in, and will be found lying in, the inferior meatus of the affected cavity, and their exact position will be determined by the method and direction of their intro- duction. The reason of their formation is not so clear. Grate argues in favor of a gouty dyscrasia, .as favoring their production. Durham, with more pro- bability, holds that chronic inflammation of the nasal fossa and lachiymal gland, may give rise to such alterations in the secretions that, a foreign body being present, the de})Osition of calcareous matter around it can readily be explained. Such de])Osition is also favored by various anatomical abnormali- ties, preventing the free exit of secretions. Brown® reports such an example, • in which cicatricial closure of the nostril, following smallpox, gave I'ise to the formation of a calculus weighing three and one-h.alf drachms, which was removed by incising the occluding membrane. After what has been said, it can readily be understood that nasal calculi m.ay (constantly increase in size through the deposition of successive layers, that their contour must depend upon the sha])C of the cavity in which they are formed, and that they m.ay be either hard and firm, or soft and friable, in tbeir nature. The sym}ttoms to which they give rise have in great measure been detailed in speaking of other causes of nasal obstruc- ' Menioire sur les Calcules nasaux. Arch. G6u. de Med. 1845. Op. cit. 3 Vol. i. p. 225. ■' Archives of Laryngology, vol. i. p. 149. ■ ® Diseases of the Nose. ® Ediuhurgh Med. .Jour., vol. v. p. 50.