TUMORS OF THE NOSE. 419 to an uneasy sensation by moving backwards and forwards in the respiratory current through the nose ; and, being likewise hygroscopic, or ready absorb- ents of moisture, their size, and the consequent degree of occlusion which they cause, vary greatly with changing atmospheric conditions. Even when they are multiple, or their size excessive, they rarely cause any distortion of the neighboring parts, the soft growth or growths adapting themselves to the con- tour of the surrounding nasal walls. The hbroid growth, on the contrary, displaces all in its growth, pushes aside the septum, absorbs bone or separates connecting sutures, and penetrates and develops in all directions, producing the characteristic deformity known as “frog face” when it invades and displaces the antrum on either side; in the latter case the attendant nasal discharge, usually of a thin, watery nature only, becomes purulent and even fetid, and frequent attacks of epistaxis occur. l^ain is a frequent symptom in this class of growth likewise, as well as in the osseous, cartilaginous, and malignant varieties, and may be excessive. Not only does characteristic deformity of the nose attend all of these forms, but displacement of the eyes, strabismus, inability to close the lids, chemosis, conjunctivitis, distortions of the internal parts of the mouth, and the like, are no unusual results. With sarcoma and carcinoma must be added, softening and ulceration of the tumor, witli their sequel*®, fungoid granulations, hemor- rhages and fetid discharges. Constitutional cachexia and inliltration of the neighboring lymphatics, are absent in sarcoma, }»resent in carcinoma; wdth both there is excessive pain, and a tendency to penetrate into the cavity of the orbit or brain, or destroy in their onward march the tissues and soft parts of the nose and cheeks, and appear externally upon the face as a fungoid, bleed- ing mass. One complication or result of the nasal obstruction caused by polypi, or even by the hypertro])hy of the tissue over the turbinated bones, in certain instances, is of suthcient interest to demand special mention. I allude to their direct influence in the causation of bronchial asthma. Thudichum^ asserts that there is no more common complication of nasal diseases, par- ticularly polypus; and since the flrst observation was put upon record by Voltolini,^ numerous cases have been detailed, and the subject carefully studied by several authors—Porter,^ Fraenkel,^ Ilaensisch,® Daly,® Hartmann, Spen- ser, Rumbold, Todd, Mullhall, and Schaffer. JoaF details eleven cases of his own, in all of which the asthmatic attacks immediately disappeared after the removal of the polypus, though in some instances only to return as soon as the nasal respiration became affected bj^ the recurrence of the growth. All of the patients were of marked gouty constitution. He shows us that mucous polypi, which may be innocent in some individuals, in others play a part— occasional, wdthout doubt, but powerful—in the causation of nervous respi- ratory troubles All of the above observations show then, beyond question, that not only may the reflected irritation from nasal obstruction be the ex- citing cause of asthma, but that, if the cause be prolonged, local bronchial lesions may be the result (Thudichum); and that to cure the condition, the removal of the cause of the reflex irritation is requisite, and usually promptly succeeds. The irritation of the pneumogastric nerve, whicli in- duces the s[)asrnodic contraction of the lironctiial muscles, and thus approxi- mates the cartilaginous rings of the bronchi (Pert, Traube), is probably excited by reflected impressions received through the medium of the tiftli ' Lancet, April 17, 1880. ^ flalvanokaustik, S. 246, 312. 1871. * Med. Record, Oct. 11, 1870, and Arcliives of Laryngology, vol. iii. No. 2. Berlin klin. WocLenschr., Nos. 16, 17. 1881 ; and Zienissen’.s Cyclopaedia, vol. iv. p. 107. ® Berlin klin. Wochensclir., S. .703. 1-874. ® Archives of Laryngology, vol. ii. 1880. Archives G6n. de Medeciue, tome i. 1882.