ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 1003 abscesses tlie size of walnuts; each contained a little yellow pus and some necrotic liver-tissue of a sulphur-yellow color. Associated with, and doubtless caused by, the hepatic abscesses, was a large, circumscribed, peritoneal abscess in the right hypochondrium. It was bounded on the outer side, and above, by the ribs from the sixth to the twelfth inclusive, and by the diaphragm ; on the left, or inner side, by the right lobe of the liver, the right border of which was concave instead of convex, and of a slate-blue color; and below by the colon, which was adherent to the liver and the abdominal parietes. Posteriox’ly, the abscess reached back as far as the angles of tlie ribs. There was a distance of a hand’s breadth between the right edge of the liver and the thoracic wall. The colon, at itsliepatic flexure, communicated with the abscess tbrough an aperture large enough to admit the index finger. The abscess-cavity, which contained fetid gas and a dirty purulent fluid of a faint fecal odor, had been opened during life through a free incision in the sixth interspace. The liniiig mem- brane of the outer wall of the abscess was everywhere in a gangrenous condi- tion. I might refer to other cases in which ulceration or sloughing of the cjccal appendix was found with abscess of the liver, and Ur. Goodhart tells me that his experience at the post-mortem room of Guy’s Hospital leads him to regard disease of this appendix as a by no means unfrequent cause of liejxatic abscess. Cases supporting this view have been recorded by Ur. Carrington.^ The frequent association of he})atic abscess and dysenteric ulceration is well known, but their exact relationship is still a subject of dispute. There are good grounds, however, for believing in tlie occurrence of a form of hepatic abscess—the tropical abscess—due to suppurative inflammation of the liver and quite independent of dysentery, of every source of suppuration or ulcera- tion, and of operation wound or other injury ; and though it may coexist with or follow dysentei’y, it is but an effect, like the dysentery itself, of climacteric causes. Such is the opinion of Murchison, Sir d. Fayrer,^ and others; and such the writings and statistics of Waring, Morehead, Maepherson, Maclean, and others, go to prove. Budd and others have, however, thought differently, and Ur. Uickinsoif* has recently pointed out some objections to tins view. Accepting the teaching of Murchison and Fayrer, as to tropical abscess, we recognize three forms of he})atic suppuration : 1, The traumatic abscess ; 2, Tbe large, single, so called, trojiical abscess, whicb, like the traumatic, is a local affection, though it may and often does coexist with dysentery; 3, The infective abscess; namely, that due to septic matter, whether derived from a dysenteric, syphilitic, or simple ulcer of the bowel, or from any other source within the patient, and whether the septic matter is conveyed to the liver through the portal veins, the hepatic artery, the hepatic veins, or the lymphatics. Character and Size of Hepatic Abscesses.—Hepatic alxscesses maybe single or multiple, superficial or deep, encysted or cpiite undefined, with ragged and shreddy margins. The pus varies in quantity from a drachm or two to a gallon ; and in color, consistence, and odor, it presents infinite varieties. It is frequently laudable, but may be greenish, brownish, reddish, or yellow, and sometimes it is mixed with sloughy shreds of liver-substance. A very good illustration of the large single abscess was seen in the case of a man, aged 3.3, with bronzed skin and hair like a mulatto, who was under Ur. Greenhow’s care, in 1879 :— The lower ribs bulged, and dulness on percussion readied as bigli as tlie fonrtli rib in front. An incision tliroiigh tbe seventh intercostal space was followed by the dis- ' Ctiiy’s Ilosp'. Reports, 3d ser., vol. xxvi. 2 On Dysentery and Liver Abscess. Lancet, May 19, 1883. 3 Trans. Patli. Soc. bond., vol. xxxii. p. 130. 1881.