412 DISEASES a:sd injuries of the nose and its accessory sinuses. Bifid Septum.—A curious abnormality of the posterior nares, of which I am aware of but two instances, those reported by Scliroetter^ and myself,^ is as follows: The posterior edge of the septum narium, from its point of mergence into the parts making up the vault of the pharynx to one-half way in its course from the floor of the nares, is divided vertically into two dis- tinct halves, inclosing between them a small space; this space is more or less triangular in shape, its base lying above, and is lined apparently with normal mucous membrane. This description applies-to both of the instances men- tioned. In neither was there any history of injury or disease; the condition gave rise to no symptoms, and was discovered only by accident, during rhi- noscopic examination. I Foreign Bodies in the jSTasal Passages. Articles of the most varied character, form, size, and description, are not infrecpiently found lodged within the nasal fossae, either as the result of acci- dent or design; especially is the latter the case in children. Fraenkel, more- over, calls attention to the fact that foreign bodies may originate within the organism, having their source, in such cases, first, within the nose or neighboring cavities^—as for instance, in the detachment of necrosed bits of bone—or second, originating elsewhere in the body, carried into the nasal cavities, and lodged tbere: as examples may be quoted, the entrance of part of the contents of the stomach through the posterior nares intodhe nostrils, in violent attacks of vomiting, and the occasional presence of the ascaris lumbricoides within these or the contiguous cavities. Thiedemamfl has collected a number of cases in which the lumbrici, having reached the stomach, passed out of the body by the nose instead of the mouth, or even remained for some time in the former, causing by their presence great local disturbance. If the foreign body come from without, it has but three points of entrance: first, and most commonly, through the anterior nares; second, but rarely, through the posterior nares ; and finally, infrequently, through the soft parts of the face, as is seen in gunshot wounds, accidents of various kinds, stab- wounds, etc.^ The latter two classes, from their infrequency, need but pass- ing mention. Lowndes® reports the case of a ring—too large to have passed in through the anterior nares—as having been lodged in the post-nasal cavity, where its presence could only be accounted for by its having been swallowed and passed into the nose from the lower pharynx; and Hoyes has removed the entire breech-pin of an exploded gun from the nasal cavity, where it had long lain undiscovered, the patient having applied to Dr. I^oyes for treatment of his eyes.® The catalogue of the foreign bodies introduced into the nostril through its anterior opening, forms an interesting and curious, but illimitable list. Buttons and glass beads are favorite articles with children. I have removed carpet-tacks, nuts, small pebbles, copper rivets, bits of wood, pieces of coal, shot, pins, and beans; in the case of the latter, germination is possi- ble, although I have never seen it. The foreign body once introduced, if discovered by the attendant, or its in- troduction acknowledged by the patient, is nsually quickly removed, if efforts looking towards that end are at once made liy the surgeon; on the other hand, if forgotten and undisturbed, it not unfrequently I’emains in situ for years, covered ' Laryngologisclie Mittlieilungen. Wien, 1875. 2 Med. News, Jan. 7, 1882. 3 Von lebenden Wiirmen und Insekten in den Geruclis-orgauen des Meusclien. 1844. Cloquet, Ospbresiologie. Weimar, 1824. 5 British Medical Journal, September, 1867. ® See also Lancet, May 3, 1884.