INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1068 seem the better practice. Mr. Tait is of opinion that it would be best to remove a large portion of the denuded peritoneum, “and trust to a careful arrangement by sutures of the portions left.”^ Distension of the Gall-Bladder. Tlie gall-bladder may be distended by bile, thin mucoid fluid secreted by its own lining membrane, pus, gall-stones, or cancer, and several instances have been recorded in which, after death, the viscus has been found distended with air. Distension of the gall-bladder with bile is a common consequence of obstruction of the common bile-duct, but it occurs also independently of such obstruction. An old man, aged 87, died fi’ora concussion of the brain, cystitis, and pyelitis, eleven days after an injury to his liead. The gall-bladder was completely stufled with a mass of dry, mortary, inspissated gall, v>ddch was adherent to the thickened walls of the gall-bladder; there ivas no obstruction in the ducts. The commonest cause of obstruction is a biliary calculus ; other occasional causes are a growth in some part of the duct, pressure upon the duct by a tumor in some neighboring organ, and obliteration of the duct at its intes- tinal extremity by an ulcer or cancer of the duodenum. Murchison^ relates a case of enlargement of the gall-bladder with atrophy of the liver, caused by obstruction from a cicatrix after a duodenal ulcer. Dr. VanderbyP records one in ■which obstruction 'was due to cancer of the pancreas. Dr. Martin Oxley* has recently put on record a case of abdominal tumor, the size of a cocoanut, situated below the free margin of the liver, and caused by congenital atresia of the duodenal end of the common bile-duct. The child was five weeks old, much jaundiced and emaciated, and thirty-six ounces of bile flowed out on puncturing the tumor. A fe'^v days subsequently, this was tapped again, and sixteen ounces of bile were drawn olf with Southey’s tube and trocar. Four days after the second tapping the child died, and it was found that the tumor (which had existed from birth) was due to dilatation of the gall- duct, the gall-bladder being of normal size and empty ; there was no opening from the common duct into the intestine. The symptoms of distension of the gall-bladder from such causes as the above, are jaundice, absence of bile in the feces, presence of bile in the urine, and general fulness and tenderness of the liver. The tumor is pyriform in shape, and elastic, if not fluctuating, and it projects downwards from beneath the edge of the liver, in the normal situation of tlie gall-bladder. Its dimen- sions vary; the accumulation has been known to amount to twelve pounds® and upivards, the size of the sac being proportionally increased, so as to occupy a very considerable portion of the abdominal cavity. Dr. Bright® has recorded a case in which the gall-bladder, distended with bile, formed an oval tumor descending nearly to the crest of the ilium. M. BetiB mentions two cases of puncture of the distended gall-bladder which proved fatal; in one case two [French] pints of very green and viscid bile were discharged, and in the other about a chopiue® of green bile. In Cline’s case 20 ounces of bilious fluid were drawn off with a canula, and after death on the seventh day, the gall-bladder was found to extend down to the pelvis, and to contain ' Diseases of the Ovaries, 4th edition. 1883. ^ Diseases of the Liver, Case LXI., p. 3(35. 3 Trans. Path. Soo. Lond., vol. ix. p. 228. ■* Lancet, December 8, 1883, p. 988. ® Dr. William Thomson, op. cit., p. 73. ® Op. cit., p. 271. 1 Mem. de I’Acad. Roy. de Chir., tome i. p. 256. ® [Half a French pint, a little over 16 tluidounces.]