INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 300 need be said on the subject in this place. In the milder cases, the pain and soreness may be greatly mitigated by the local application of carbolated oil (3ij of carbolic acid to siij of olive oil) or carbolated vaseline. Cooling applications also afford relief. Diseases and Injuries of the External Auditory Canal. Impacted Cerumen.—Of all the affections of the external auditory canal, impaction of cerumen is by far the most common. This condition is apt to be developed without any special symptoms. The accumulation of cerumen takes place so gradually that the patient rarely suspects what is occurring, until he suddenly becomes more or less deaf in the affected ear, and experiences a sense of fulness on that side of the head. Sudden alternations between good and defective hearing are among the most marked symptoms of this condition. When the affected ear is examined with the speculum and reflected light, a black or dark brown mass will be found filling the canal, and obstructing the view of the deeper parts of the ear. As impacted cerumen is very apt to be associated with catarrhal inflammation of the middle ear, it will be found desirable not to express an opinion, either with regard to the nature of the ailment or with regard to the prognosis, until the auditory canal has been cleared of all obstructions. The question of treatment resolves itself practically into the question, how can the obstructing mass be removed most thoroughly, cj^uickly, and pleasantly ? In my opinion, the instrumental method of removing impacted cerumen is, in the majority of cases, the most effective and at the same time tlie pleasantest way, both for the patient and for the physician, of accom- plishing the desired object. I must confess, however, that a certain degree of manual dexterity is absolutely essential to the proper performance of the operation. It is also probably true that, among the great body of medical practitioners, only a small minority possesses the requisite skill in the handling of delicate instruments. While therefore the removal of impacted cerumen by means of the syringe may seem to be a clumsy and oftentimes ineffectual method of attaining the object desired, no better method, adapted to general use, has yet been devised. One of the chief reasons why syringing so often fails to wash out the mass of impacted cerumen, is this: the force of the current is spent upon the broad surface of the outer end of the plug, and tends therefore rather to drive it farther inward. The most effective plan is to direct the stream against one edge (preferably the upper edge) of the mass, in the hope of washing out a channel between the main body of the plug and the upper wall of the mea- tus. As soon as this has been accom})lished, it will be found that the current begins to exert a vis a tergo upon a portion of the mass, and soon brings away fragments of considerable size. If simple syringing with lukewarm water fails, we may employ some chemical reagent for the purpose of softening the cerumen and loosening its attachments to the walls of the canal. Bicarbonate of sodium, for example, may be used to advantage as a solvent. A few drops of a strong solution of this salt should be dropjied into the meatus (the patient’s head being turned well over toward the opposite side), and should be allowed to remain there for at least twenty minutes. If syringing then fails to bring away the ceru- minous mass, the soda solution should be introduced a second time, and even a third, if necessary. In the instrumental method of removing impacted cerumen, the aim is to loosen the attachments of the impacted mass by means of suitable instruments.