593 TUMORS OF THE NECK. remove it entirely and unite the wound carefully by suture, taking eveiy advantage of plaits of skin, shadows of surface, etc. A straight, linear cica- trix may thus be suljstituted for a raised, rough, and deformed band. In other cases the replacement of the objectionable tissue by a plastic operation is the happiest resource. In removing the old tissue, such a line of incision should be employed as will best tit the adaptation of tlie pro}>osed new flap. The bed in which the flap is to lie must be veiy carefully prepared, and all hard tissue removed from its surface and sides. The “ method by sliding” (erroneously called “the French”) is that most commonly employed. Flaps must be secured from one side or both, and that in varying proportions and shapes to suit the state of the parts and tlie ease of adjustment; and in the fashioning, fltting, and subsequent treatment of such parts, the well under- stood and widely practised principles of plastic surgery must be carefully applied. Flaps have been taken to i-eplace cicatrices on the neck, from any and all the surrounding surfaces. Thus the face, front of chest, top of shoulder, and neck itself, have all been ;^:iut under contribution. Carden and Teale in England, Mutter in America, Richet and Pean in France, have all published leading cases.'^ The"“Indian method,” by replacement, can of course be combined witli that by sliding, Avhile incisions and skin-grafting may also help in securing the desired result. In cases of extensive deformity, part only of the surface involved should be dealt with at a time, so as not to run too much risk. Esmarch’s operation for estaljlishing a joint in the body of the bone may be called for, Avhen the loAver jaAV is draAvu doAvn and fixed, and cannot l)e freed. As to the use of compression, and of caustic applications, little need be said. Plates of lead, or special apparatus, have been used, in order to cause tlie ab- sorption of the unduly prominent tissue, but to little |)urpose. Caustics and iodine cannot be used eflectually without running great risk of setting u}i ulcerative action, and Avheu that begins in cicatricial tissue, it is impossible to say Avhere it Avill cease. I have secured very good results, in cases of slight or medium severity, by tlie pi’olonged use of colorless iodine, begun in small quantities, painted on once or twice a day with a carneTs-hair brush, and desisted from on the appearance of any undue irritation. The strength and frequency of the application must be regulated by its etiects, and it may have to be continued for months. I have seen no benefit in the Avay of im- proving the color, from the use of chlorine or other remedies. Tumors of the jSTeck. These may lie of many diverse kinds, and may present some most formida- ble features. Innocent or malignant in character; connected Avith or lying in contact Avith the important structures of this region ; congenital or not in their origin ; merely giving rise to discomfort or deformity, or rapi<lly menac- ing the life of the patient, they cannot fail to secure the attention and anxious care of the surgeon. Their superficial or deep position, and tlieir relation to the deep cervical ajioueurosis, are points of the utmost importance. Abscesses have been already spoken of. Adenoma, cystoma, angeioma, li[ioma, sarcoma, tiln-oma, myxoma, encliondroma, osteoma, papilloma, lym- phoma, neuroma, epithelioma, and carcinoma, in short almost all the fluid and solid groAvths Ave are ac(piainted Avith, may be met Avith in some of their forms in the region of the neck. Some of these are fortunately rare, and the ' See Med. Times and Gazette, 1857 ; Brit, and For. Med.-Cliir. Review, vol. xiv., and Union Medicate, 1868. VOL. V.—38