293 EXAMINATION OF THE PATIENT. (preferably the argancl gas-burner), or that furnished by a good kerosene lamp. Even a lighted candle, if held sufficiently near, may suffice. Direct sunlight is too dazzling. Indirect sunlight, such as can he obtained if we direct our mirror toward the sky above tlie horizon, or toward the white wall of a Fig. 885. Forehead-mirror in actual use. neighboring house, generally affords sufficient illumination for all ordinary purposes. If artificial light he used, it should bo place<l somewhat above the level of the patient’s head, and a short distance to the right or to the left of a line drawn through the heads of the i)atient and the surgeon who is making the examination. At first, considerable difficulty will be experienced in securing a steady and good illumination of the deeper parts of the audi- tory canal, but with practice will come comparative ease in overcoming these difficulties. In this connection I Avish to call attention to an important rule, viz., that in his efforts to cause the rays of light to fall upon the patient’s ear, the physician should not depend ii})on the motions of his neck for the attainment of this object. After he has once placed his head in the position which is best adapted to the purpose of directly looking into the ear, he should keep it in that position, and the satisfactory illumination of the parts should be effected wholly by movements of the mirror proper, through the medium of its ball-and-socket joint attachment to the forehead-plate. A strict observance of this rule will greatly facilitate the task—by no means always an easy one—of obtaining a good view of the deeper parts of the auditory canal. In making the actual examination, avo must i;ot forget one or tAvo points of practical importance. In tlie first place, in the adult, the outer third of the auditory canal, the cartilaginous jiortion, usually forms an obtuse angle Avith the inner portion of the canal. To render the meatus straight through- out its entire length, we need only to pull the auriclo slightly upward and backAvard. In infants, Ave may find k necessary to pull the auricle rather outward—aAvay from the skull—and doAvmvard, in order to attain the same object. In the next place, if Ave Avish to avoid the danger of Avounding the