1083 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. of these enlargements have been already considered, namely, the hydatid and other large cystic tumors, and the enlargement of the kidney caused by scrofulous disease. There remain, however, other renal tumors for description, namely, carcinoma, sarcoma, and rhabdomjmma—all of the nature of malig- nant new growths—and two which are not new growths at all, namely, hydro- nephrosis and pyonephrosis. Hydronephrosis is a mechanical result of obstruction to the outflow of urine from the pelvis of the kidney ; and in the most extreme cases the seat of obstruction is generally the ureter. It consists in dilatation of the pelvis and caljmes of the kidney by urine, and in more or less atrophy of the renal substance, followed by expansion of the capsule, and of what remains of the cortical and medullary substance of the organ. The tension exerted by the accumulating urine stretches the calyces, and tiattens and wastes the pyramids, to such an extent that the calyces arc converted into huge spaces, or sacs, jutting off from the dilated pelvis, and separated from one another by slender septa formed by the wasted “ columns of Bertini.” In some instances of hydronephrosis, the degree of distension is such that a tense, irregularly rounded tumor occupies the renal region of the abdomen, and expands upwards to the costal margins, downwards to the iliac crest, and inwards as far as, or beyond, the median line, Avhilst it also bulges back- Avards into the loin. In exceptional eases, the tumor attains such a size as to distend the Avhole abdomen, and to assume the appearance and physical characters of an ovarian cyst. Several mistakes in diagnosis have been made in such cases, and operations undertaken as ovariotomies have either had to be abandoned, or have ended in the removal of the affected kidney. In other cases, again, the tumor has an intermittent existence, being prominent at one time, and not to lie detected at all, at others.^ Causes.—Anything Avhich obstructs the ffoAV of urine from the kidney may cause hydronephrosis, but the lai’gest tumors are formed Avlien the source of the obstruction produces its effect gradually, and the obstruction I)ecomes complete by sIoav degrees. A calculus impacted in the ureter, a new growth in the bladder blocking the vesical oriffee of the ureter, a cica- tricial or congeiiital contraction of the ureter, valve-like folds of the mucous membrane of, and convolutions or tAvists of the ureter, and the pressure of any tumor, of a pregnant or retroverted uterus, or of a hydatid cyst, or in fact any cause of external pressure U[)On the ureter Avill give rise to it. Stricture of the urethra, cancer of the uterus or bladder, and other causes Avhich affect the flow from both kidneys, produce hydronephrosis and pyo- nephrosis, but do not often cause distension of either organ to a sufficient degree to form an abdominal or even a lumbar SAvelling. Cancer of the uterus and vagina is a very common and fatal cause of hydronephrosis and ]iyo- nephrosis, but the degree of distension is not often great. The fluid contained in hyilrone])hrotic cysts is limpid, opalescent, and imperfect urine, of a yelloAv, or, it may be, of a light-brown or light-red-broAvn coloi’. LTric acid, urates, and oxalate of lime may be found in it. Sometimes the fluid is turbid, and contains muco-pus ; sometimes there is blood-clot of old or recent date, Avhich gives a lirowu or red color to the fluid. But in many cases the fluid is odor- less, gives no reaction Avith heat or nitric aciil, or Avith cu])ric tests, has a Ioav speciffc gravity, leaves scarcely any residue on evaporation, and gives no evidence of urea or uric acid : in fact, it is oidy Avater holding a large quantit}- of chloride of sodium in solution, and containing a few epithelium cells.- 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. lix. * Ibid., p. 253.