LARYNGOSCOPY. 627 trated upon the interior of the mouth and throat l>y means of a concave retlector similar to those used in ophthalmoscopy (Fig. 1023), Avhich may he held in the hand, or may be attached to the head. The same kind of retlector is used with artiticial light, a combined illumination practised more frecpiently than any other, and then the reflector may he conveniently attached to either a lamp (Fig. 1024) or a gas-bracket. Various lanterns, or light-concentrators, are used for illuminating purposes, but a good naked gaslight answei’s admirably, and a coal-oil light is still more satisfactory. The lanterns, whether for coal- oil, gas, oxy-hydrogen, or electric lights, are not needed for ordinary purposes. The brightest light available is sunlight, direct, or reflected from the surface of a plane mirror. Fig. 1023. Fig. 1024. Perforated reflector for laryugoscopy, Laryngoscopy hy reflected artificial light. lUethod of Tohold.' with band for attachment to head. (Tobold.) The image of the strnctnres thus to lie inspected hy laryngoscopy requires some little preliminary study on the normal subject, or on the exsected larynx, to be fully comprehended; tor it appears in a position nearly verti- cal, while the natural plane is much more horizontal. Then, too, there is an apparent antero-posterior reversement of position, with maintenance of the actual lateral relations of left and right. The structures which can he inspected laryngoscopically are, from before backward and downward : The posterior portion of the base of the tongue ; the posterior surfaces of the anterior palatine folds, and theii- attachment to the sides of the base of the tongue; the lateral ligaments connecting the tongue with the hyoid hone; the ligaments connecting the tongue with the epiglottis, together with the lingual sinuses on either side of the middle glosso-epiglottic ligament; the tonsils; the posterior })alatine folds; the ligaments connecting the epiglottis with the hyoid hone; the epiglottis, on l)oth lingual and laryngeal surfaces; the aiyteno-cihglottic folds forming the lateral borders of the entrance into the respiratory portion of the larynx; the arytenoid and snpra-arytenoid (Santorini) cartilages; the poste- rior or arytenoidal vocal processes, extending into the structure of the vocal hands; the base and sometimes more of the cuneiform (Wrisberg) cartilages; the laryngo-pharyngeal sinuses between the wings of the thyroid cartilage and the soft lateral walls of the laryngeal tube; the posterior wall of tlie