994 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. Treatment.—Enterotomy should be performed if the foreign body becomes impacted, and life is threatened either from obstruction or perforation, or is rendered miserable and useless as the result of the foreign body’s continued presence in the bowel; also if the foreign body be such as is not likely to pass the ileo-cfecal valve and cfecuin, and especially if it be long and of angular shape. lu the American Journal of the Medical Sciences* is an account of an inte- resting case in which a silver spoon was successfully removed by enterotomy from the small intestine of a man aged twenty-six years, one calendar month after it had been swallowed ; the intestine, after the extraction of the spoon, was sewn up and returned. The operation was performed on Aug. 7, 1806, by Dr. White, Senior, of Hudson, JST. Y., who published an account of it in the Medical Repository.^ Mr. EryanD relates a case of acute intestinal obstruction due to a gall- stone, which had entei’ed the duodenum by ulceration of its coats. This stone, which weighed 238 grains and measured three and one-cpiarter inches in circumference, had become impacted in the ileum about a foot above the ileo-ceecal valve, and was removed by enterotomy by Mr. Bryant. Unfortu- nately the patient died from peritonitis, which had commenced before the operation was pei’formed. Enterotomy.—This operation consists in cutting through the abdominal parietes in the middle line, if the exact position of the foreign body is unknown, but along the linea semilunaris, or in one of the iliac regions, or at any other spot near to or over the foreign body, if it can be felt thi’ough the abdominal walls. The portion of intestine in which the foreign bodi- is lodged shoidd be drawn to the surface of the wound, and carefully sur- rounded with properly prepared sponges, so that nothing may escape from the incised gut into the peritoneal cavity. Yext, the bowel should be opened by as small an incision as possible, ancl the foreign body removed by polypus or claw forceps, or with the linger and thumb. The wound in the gut is then to be sewn up by Lembert’s, Jobert’s, or the continuous suture. Finally, the gut should l)e returned into the abdomen, and the parietal wound closed by interrupted sutures of silk or tishing-gut, passed through all the layers of the abdominal walls, including the peritoneum. The wound should he dressed as after ovariotomy and gastrotomy, and the after-treatment should be the same. If the foreign body be impacted in the cseeum, the operation just described should be perfoi’med, the external incision being made in the right iliac region. In certain cases of impaction in the lai’ge intestine, colotoniy will be indicated, and may be followed by the exit of the impacted substance, as ivell as by com})lete relief of the intestinal obstruction. Mr. Clement’s case has been already cited to illustrate this fact. In June, 1880, AT. Verneuil brought before the Society of Surgery, in Paris, the case of a man aged forty, who had introduced a piece of wood into his lower bowel to check diarrha-a. The foreign body, a few days afterwards, was above the reach of tlie hand in the rectum, so laparotomy in the median line was performed, and the foreign body was pushed downwards along the bowel until it could be seized in the rectum and withdrawn yer vias natiirales. The man recovered well. Ilevin mentions an ingenious device which ivas resorted to by Marchetti. Some students had pushed a pig’s tail, previousl}’ frozen hard and with the hair cut short, into the rectum of a lewd woman. The hairs sticking in the gut resisted all attempts at removal, until Marchetti intro- duced a hollow tube over the pig’s tail, and brought the tube away with the tail included in it. 1 Loc. cit., July, 1876, p. 279. ® Traus. Cliu. Soc., vol. xii. p. 106. 2 Loc. cit., Second Hexade, vol. iv. p. 367.