HERNIA. 1168 ing, may now be examined. If diseased or sphacelated, the vessels should he tied where they are evident, with tine catgut, carried around them with a common sewing-needle, and then the mass should he cut off with blunt scis- sors ; all bleeding points should he carefully tied. Xo haste should he used, unless urgentl}" needed at this part of the operation, so as to he sure that all bleeding is permanently stopped; the edge of the omentum may now he so arranged as to meet the lower, cut edge of the hernial opening, and become adherent thereto, so as to prevent, if possible, any future protrusion. The omentum should not, if possible, he tied “ en masse,” or in a puckered bundle. It sometimes happens that adhesions of the omentum form the strangulat- ing agency, and not the hernial aperture. If this he so, the adhesions must he cut or separated, and the bowel released. All bleeding points are to he carefully tied with small catgut ligatures. In corpulent persons, in whom the operation has been delayed until peri- tonitis has begun, the operator has frecpiently to contend with a gush of bowels out of the abdomen. This should be restrained by receiving them in the warm wet towels, and applying pressure by the hands of assistants. If it can be managed, all the operative proceedings within the sac should be done before such a rush occurs; but if a cough, or vomiting, or anaesthetic difficulty occurs at this juncture, tins is sometimes impossible, and the sur- geon is compelled to do tbe best he can. In such cases the operation becomes a formidable one indeed, and is comparable only to laparotomy under condi- tions of inflammatoi’y distension of the intestines. The bowels and omen- tum should always, if possible, be kept in the warm wet towels, and not iiyliscriminately handled by the assistants, whose arms should be bared, and well purified with carbolized lotion. The intestines should be always returned before the omentum, which should, if possible, be spread out over them before the stitches are applied. These should be put in very closely and numerously, taking up the serous membrane as well as the skin. A drainage-tube should be placed in the lowest part of the wound. If it be small, and with no distension of the abdomen present, the sac may be entirely removed, with a portion of the thin skin over it, and the wound may be then brought together with thick silver-wire sutures and leaden buttons, taking a good hold of the recti muscles and sheath, the skin being united by close points of silk suture, and the whole covered by gauze dressing and a broad llannel bandage. If an artificial anus is unavoidable, the sutures should be closely applied to the living edges of tlie bowel, uniting them to tlie skin so as to prevent subsecpient extravasation. In this case further use of the spray is unnecessary and inconvenient. The opening, after free evacuation of the contents of the bowel, should be lightly covered by carbolized lint, over which a cpiantity of loose carbolized tow should be laid, and the whole secured by a broad flannel bandage lightly applied. The apartment should be kept at a temperatin-e of 60° F.,' and a “bronchitis- kettle” should furnish steam while the operation is going on. Sickness ma}’ be allayed by sucking small lumps of ice ; and a grain of opium, in the solid form, may be given every four hours, unless albumen or sugar be present in the urine, when the effects of each dose should be closely Avatched before another is given. If the stomach reject all medicines, the sedative may be administered by hypodermic injection. Xo eneinata should be given foi- a week after the operation. The wire and buttons, Avhen used, should not be removed before this time has elajised, and before the median Avound has be- come Avell united. In cases of artificial anus, the bed may be deluged AA'ith the contents of the bowels. This complication is best met by placing large quantities of carbolized or marine toAV under and on each side of the patient. [' A temperature of 70° F. would be preferable in America.]