IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. 1119 result is some form of inguinal or femoral hernia. If in addition there is a congenital or traumatic imperfection in the development or position of the abdominal muscles and fasciin, the result is more easily effected. So if the abdominal recti lie imperfectly developed, and separated by a broad linea alba, while the umbilical cicatrix is large, weak, and feebly resistant, the result is an umbilical or ventral hernia. Or if any other of the natural aper- tures of the alidominal cavity are looser and less compact than natural, or if by the infliction of an injury a cicatricial tissue has been formed which is more yielding than the noi-mal walls, the protruding force operates in the manner of fluid pressure, and the weakest part gives way. In some of these cases, where no parietal peritoneum is opposed to the 0}tening, there may he no serous sac formed for the protrusion, which is covered only by the enveloping fascia of tlie part. The forces above indicated operate alike in all cases of abdominal hernia. The particular form which it may assume is determined by the condition of the several abdominal apertures. In sonie cases met with, the tendency is so extensive that several hernite may occur in the same person, more or less closely following each other, or even produced at the same time. Thus, it is not uncommon to find a double inguinal rupture, associated with a femoral or an umbilical one, or even both. In such cases, it is found that the mesenteric and omental connections are long and loose, or that the patient, after having been stout and corpulent, has become suddenly, by illness or other causes, thin and relaxed. The fat wliich helped to till up the apertures is removed before it disappears in the mesentery and omentum, where it increases the protrud- ing force. Another condition ivliich predisposes to the formation of rupture, is irregular.contraction of the large or small intestine, as from flatulent colic, with distension of one part of the bowel, ami spasmodic contraction of the neighboring part. The former distends the abdomen, and helps to force tlie smaller contracted portion through the hernial aperture. This is perhaps mo^ frequent in children, from the same causes which may eventuate in intussusception of the bowel or prolapse of tlie rectum. Reducible Hernia. If the contents of a rupture can he returned into the abdomen by pressure (taxis), or go back of themselves, it is called a reducible hernia. Usually the reduction may he etfected by simple posture, as by lying down for a greatei’ or less time, and especially if the pelvis lie raised above the upper part of the trunk, as by inversion of the patient. Under these circumstances the con- tents are drawn into the abdomen by the simple force of gravity, facilitated by the smooth, moist, and slippery surfaces of the peritoneum. Frequently we see the liernia thus reduced by tlie peristaltic contraction of the longitudi- nal muscular bands of the intestine, or by the flatulent or other distension of the gut in the close neighborhood of the contracted part which lies in the hernia, or by the rolling movement of the stomach and large bowel, acting through the great omentum. In some cases reduction seems to be effected or aifled by the bracing and compressive action of the cremastei’ and dartos fibres, when stimulated by a dash of cold air or water, or by the application of ice. Irreducible Hernia. When the hernial contents cannot he returned by the above means, although there be no impediment to the passage of feces through the bowels, or to the