262 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. Tlie few recoveries that I have seen, have been only jiartial, some appreciable deviation being still detected. It is chiefly in convergent strabismus that these favorable changes take place, with the progress of years and the disappearance of active accommodation, and though I cannot agree with De Wecker, who asserts that the majority of cases of convergent strabismus get well spontane- ously, if let alone, still, the dominating influence of accommodation over con- vergence in early years, and its subsidence in advanced years, should not be forgotten. In intermittent squint, beginning in childhood, and being the first stage, often, of fixed deformity, it is sometimes possible to effect a cure without operation. The cross is only noticed when the child looks closely at small objects, or is emliarrassed, or perhaps deranged in health. Appearing more and more frequently, at length permanent contraction of the prevailing muscle is the result. This variety is frequent in hyperopic children, and shows itself about the time they are put to school. If the sight is equal and perfect in each eye, the prospect of cure by hygienic and medical treatment is greatly enhanced. But equality or perfection of sight, at this early age, before the cliild knows its letters, is very difficult to determine. Still, an efibrt at cure should be attempted. The well-known influence of spasm of the ciliaiy muscle in exag- gerating convergence, should be neutralized. This is best done by instillations of atropia. One or two drops of a one-grain solution, may be safely dropped into the eyes of the child twice a day. Often little or no tendency to squint will show itself while this treatment is kept up, and by perseverance for weeks or months a permanent cure may be brought about. TIomatropine in stronger solution (four grains to the ounce) can be used in the same way, and is less likely to produce constitutional disturbance. Eserine has likewise been tried for the same object. Its action is to stimulate the accommodation, and thus enable the eyes to overcome the hyperopia without excessive convergence. But in children under five years, in which this treatment promises best, one cannot risk the constant use of convex glasses to neutralize tlie hyperopia while the atropine treatment is carried out, and afterwards. Strabismus that can be con- trolled by atropine or by glasses, or both, if operated on, will probably show divergent eyes in after years. All close use of the eyes for study must be interdicted, and the use of tonics, aided by fresh air and good regular diet, enforced. Goggles and other devices cannot correct the squint, but may be of use in compelling separate exercise of the eyes. Training with the stereoscope, as recommended by Javal, involves a degree of intelligence and attention not possible in children. Confirmed strabismus, not controlled at all by atropine and convex glasses, demands surgical inter- ference, and the earlier it is resorted to the better the success. There is no deformity where a timely and skilful operation is so certainly successful. In the few cases in which tenotomy produces little or no effect, a proper advance- ment of the antagonist muscle secures the end desired. These two operations may often be happily combined. But great circumsjiection, skill, and patience, are required to secure an abiding, good result. The zeal of inexperienced opera- tors to obtain an immediate aiul conqflete correction, often leads them to do a double tenotomy at once. This may be very gratifying to the parents or friends, and secure a cheerful honorarium, and yet may be a curse to the patient in the ultimate course of life. Insufficiency of the severed muscles, and unsightly diver- gence in after years, may drive the jiatient to wish that his benefactor, now per- ha|)S happily dead, liad never lived! Such a deformity is far greater and more difficult to remedy than the original squint. A rightly proportioned and skil- fully executed advancement, however, may triumph even over these unfortu- nate excesses. What operatoi- of long experience has not had these dilemmas with divergent horns, come back on him in the'winter of his discontent ? Per- haps more of them fall intoother hands. Thoughtful operators proceed with