929 PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. ^ Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. lx. exit for the escape of the clots. It is impossible to read the account of Ilenneii’s celebrated case, or to have witnessed the sulferings of ]\Ir. Hilton’s patient, to whom I have before referred, without feeling convinced that each of them would have been saved a world of pain had cystotomy been per- formed. In Ilennen’s case, moreover, tlie operation would doubtless have led to the early detection and removal of the foreign body in the bladder, to .the expulsion of which, along the urethra, the agony of the latter period of the case was due. Hemorrhage should be checked by the internal administration of large and quickly repeated doses of ergot, and Ijy the local application of ice and well- applied pressure upon the loin ; care must meanwhile be taken to secure good drainage of the ivound. If life be threatened IqHiemorrhage or suppuration, the kidney ought to be removed by lumbar neplirectomjv Protrusion of the injured organ at the time of the accident, or subsequently from coughing, may also render its removal expedient. Wounrls of the Ureter.—With the exception of the gunshot 'wound of the ureter in the person of the Archbishop of Paris,’ in 1848, and the doubtful case recorded by Ilennen,- there does not appear to lie an}' published instance of wound of the ureter alone. Xone occurred in the war of tlie Eeliellion ; and when the calibre of the ureter and its secure and protected position are considered, this is not sur[irising. In all the recorded cases of injured ureter, whether penetrating or subcutaneous wounds have been indicted, and ■whether the kidney has been associated in the injury or not, it has always been the ]ielvic dilatation, that is the ureter close to the kidney, which has sutfered. Hence the diagnosis, symptoms, sequehe, and treatment of injured ureter, as far as our knowledge extends, in no way ditfer from those of rupture or wound of the kidney, nor is there any a priori reason for supposing that they should. Tlie following are the notes of the case of the Archbishop referred to;— During the revolution of 1848 (June 29), the Archbishop of Paris was wouinled by a ball at the upper part of the lumbar region, on the right of and close to the s])ine. The ball was lodged in the body. lie had intense suffering, great depression, paralysis of the limb, but no amesthesia with it. After recovering from slight collapse, reaction set in, accompanied by continued and acute pain, more es[>ecially in the left leg and down the course of the sciatic nerve. Nausea and vomiting siq)ervened ; tlie counte- nance became pale and anxious ; the abdomen was flaccid and not at all jiainful. The wound was enlarged, and unsuccessful attempts were made to extract the ball. There was no urine in the bladder, Imt a quantity escaped by tlie wound. Death ensued in eigh- teen hours. On examination, the ball was found to have fractured the transverse process of the third lumbar vertebra, to have then changed its direction and traversed the body of the same vertebra, and to have divided the cauda equina just below its origin. After leaving the vertebra the ball had changed its direction again, had passed up toward the left kidney, had divided tlie ureter near the pelvis, and, finally, had lodged in the psoas muscle. All the cellulo-fatty tissue about the left kidney was inliltrated with urine, and there was slight ecchyrnosis in the substance of the organ itself. Mr. Holmes,^ a few years since, recorded a case of great interest, which, at the time, he considered to prove the possibility of a direct and uncom- plicated wound of the ureter through the posterior (larietes of the abdomen. A boy, aged 13 years, was stabbeil by a clasp-knife, which entered the back just on the right of the middle line, and about on the level of the posterior superior s]>ine of the ilium. Tlie wound took a direction upwards and out- wards, and through it there flowed for two weeks a quantity of a colorless, ' Gazette hes hoxiitanx, 1848. VOL. V.—.59 * Op. cit., 3d ed., p. 430. Case LXXII.