660 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. that structure alone was involved. Dr. Corley* records a case following a squeeze of the throat in a domestic quarrel, in which three of the upper rings of the trachea had suffered fracture. A comminuted fracture is reported by .Drummond,^ in which the cartilaginous rings were crushed bj’ a fall upon the exposed spindle of a chair from which the upper rung was missing. Symptoms.—These are similar to those of fracture of the larynx: severe dyspnoea and rapidly extending emphysema. There is no elevation of dislo- cated fragments, no abnormal mobility, and no crepitation. False crepitus may he due to emphj-sema or to extravasated blood. Diagnosis.-—The character of the accident occasioning the dyspnoea and emphysema, and the evidence of external injury, will commonly indicate the nature of the case; hut the absence of the physical signs of crepitus and deformity may render the diagnosis difficult. Prognosis.—This is unfavorable, especially if the trachea he not freely opened for re-estahlishment of the respiration. Fracture of the trachea seems more promptly fatal than fracture of the larynx. Of seven oases collated by Grurlt, death followed in five of them from an hour and a half to a day after the accident. In one only was life saved, and then by tracheotomy after apparent death, the accumulated masses of blood and mucus being removed, and artificial respiration instituted. Recovery ensued in the case of commi- nuted fracture recorded by Drummond. Treatment.—is similar to the treatment of fracture of the larynx. The trachea should he laid freely open, either at the injured part or below it, and a tube inserted, through which respiration may he carrietl on with safety. The subsequent treatment should be like that adopted for similar wounds of the trachea. Tracheocele. Tracheocele is the term applied to a sacciform diverticulum of the mucous membrane of the trachea®—a hernial protrusion externally, between two of the cartilaginous rings or through a congenital fistula. A tumor is thus formed on the external wall of the air-tuhe, the contents being air, and the cyst-wall mucous membrane. Its position may be anterior or lateral. The lesion is cpiite rare. The tumors vary in size from the bulk of peas (Gross) to that of hens’ eggs. The tumor is usually single; occasionally it is bi-lobed. Faucoffi relates one instance of ten years’ standing, in which the tumor was divided into an upper and a lower lobe. Devalz® narrates a ease in which the tumor was composed of two principal lobes; one passing under the muscles of the neck to the right, and the other under the clavicle to the left. Eldridge® likewise records a bilateral case. In a thoughtful article he presents a table of nine cases, two of which, however, were not really tracheoceles, and were not so recorded Ijy their observer.^ Detis® reports a case of median tracheo- cele in the practice of Godefroy, and reproduces eight cases published by other writers. Tracheocele lias been observed much the more frequently in males, and usually in the adult. Leriche® has recordetl a case of double tracheocele in ' Dul). Jour. Med. Sci., October, 1877, p. 346. “ Brit. Med. Jour., Dee. 28, 1872; Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., Jan. 16, 1873, p. 72. 3 Rokitansky, Manual of Pathological Anatomy, vol. iii. p. 48. Philadelphia, IS.'iS. Gaz. des Hop., 1874, p. 77- ^ Gaz. Ilehd., 24 Juin, 1873, and Gaz. Med., 15 Nov. 1873, p. 612. ® Am. Jour. Med. Sci., July, 1879, p. 70. ’ Cohen, Diseases of the Throat, etc., p. 395. 1872. * Contril)ution k P^tude du tracheocele. These de Paris, 1882. ® Comptes-rendus de la Soc. des Sciences Med. de Lyon, 1868 ; reproduced by Detis, loc. cit.