DISEASES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. 375 The inhalation of simple hot steam, or of steam medicated with compound tincture of benzoin, is also often grateful to the patient; and a powder of sugar of milk, gum, or bismuth, rubbed up with a little morphine (gr. ij-5j), or one of starch powder with an equal part of camphor, is of service, if used as a snuff. After the dischai’ge, however, has once set in—in other words, after the intiammatoiy process has once been hrmly established—such measures fail as abortive means, and the efforts of the physician must be limited to curtailing the affection by controlling, as far as is possible, its in- flammatory action. To this end the above remedies may be continued, aided and combined with such diuretic, diaphoretic, and laxative mixtures as are indicated in the special case. The local use of inhalations of iodine, much vaunted ereasote, carbolic acid, ammonia, and the like, in this stage of the affection, are of little if any service, aside from giving temporary relief, and are sometimes positively harmful. External applications of emollients, such as vaseline or suet, occasionally give relief; and the same may be said of the use of vapor or hot-air baths. As the process reaches its later, inflammatory stages, and the muco-purulent discharge sets in, local treatment may be employed with consideral>le success. It should consist in the application, by means of the spray apparatus, of some watery solution of an astringent (see page 378) to all parts of the inflamed and turgid mucous membrane, and this should be continued at suit- able intervals until complete resolution has been established ; for there can be no question that it is to neglect of these cases of acute coryza, especially in this stage, and to inditterence to the fact of their complete or incomplete resolution, that the development of chronic catarrh can be charged in a majority of instances. Acute coryza in the infant can best be treated by thorough cleanliness, attained by the employment of a camel’s-hair pencil, used with a weak solution of borax to wash out the nasal passages, and by the subsequent insufflation of powders into the nasal passages anteriorly. Robinson recommends one of equal parts of finely pulverized Avhite sugar and camphor Avith poAvdered tannin (gr. xl-5j), and speaks enthusiastically of its good effects. If it be determined that the sj-’philitic taint exist, to this local treatment mnst, of necessity, be added the use of some form of mercurial, or of mercury and iodide of potassium, in doses suited to the age of the child, and continued for days or weeks, according to the judgment of the practitioner and the de- mands of the particular case. Idiosyncratic coryza—or, as it has been variously termed, rose or June cold, hay fever or asthma, and autumnal catarrh—may be defined as an acute coryza, showing a peculiar periodicity, and not unfrequeutly attended by reflex, asthmatic symptoms. It is due, as far as our present knowledge extends, to the inhalation, by persons possessing some peculiar and individual idiosyncrasy, of the pollen of certain grasses or flowers; and while it shows no distinction in attacking both dwellers in cities and dwellers in the country, it shows a predilection for those of high estate. (See page 451.) Its treatment will not vary, in general, from that of an ordinary acute coryza; but it is often unsatisfactory and even futile, unless a temporary change of residence he made during tlie usual duration of the attack. With the object of destroying the vegetable organisms upon Avhich the disease is supposed to depend, sprays or injections of carbolic and salicylic acid are used. Ilelmholz advises the use of an injection of the hydrochlorate of quinia (1- 100). A plan of treatment, however, which succeeds one year in aborting or