74 INJURIES OP THE HEAD. of extraneous substances. For the methods of extracting such objects, I would refer the reader to the section on trephining. Pachymeningitis, Arachnitis, and Cerebritis.—Any injury of the head may give rise to intracranial inflammation, bnt some are more apt to produce sucb an untoward result than others. Thus, lesions of the brain-substance are more frecpiently followed by inflammation than scalp-wounds and injuries of the bones. ^Yhen intracranial inflammation arises from a scalp-wound, where the vulnerating body has injured none of the cranial contents, it is always due to a complicating erysipelas or diffuse cellnlitis. Under these circum- stances, cerebral symptoms not nneommonly manifest themselves. The post- mortem examination of cases fatal from such complications, usually reveals nothing beyond an increased vascularity of the pia mater, with eflhsion of opaque fluid in the subarachnoid tissue over the upper surfaces of the hemi- spheres, and marked congestion of the cereljral substance itself. ^Vben tbe disease stai’ts in the bone or its coverings, the inflammation spreads inwards, first involving the dura mater, then the parietal arachnoid, the visceral aracbnoid, next the pia mater, and finally the cortex of the brain. Examining the difterent tissues involved, it will usually be found that, in the acute forms, especially in those arising from osteo-myelitis after bone injury, the dura mater becomes infiltrated, and its outer surface smeared with lymph or pus; it may even slough. Altliougli the inflammation, as far as tile dura mater is concerned, is almost invariably contined to that portion of the membrane wbich lies immediately lieneatb tbe diseased bone, yet this is not always the case,'as it tends in exceptional instances to spread along the cellular coat of the meningeal arteries until tbe disease reaches even the base of the skull. 'When inflammation of the dura mater results from chronic mischief set up by traumatic osteitis, caries, or necrosis, the membrane is apt to be thickened, more vascular, and closely adherent to the bone. Rokitansky states that under these circumstances either bony plates may be developed, wbicb become fused with the cranial bones, or osseous concretions may be formed in the dura mater itself, which often in time co-ossify with the adja- cent part of the skull.' As the parietal arachnoid is, histologically, really a part of the dura mater, in the acuter cases the inflammation soon involves the former tissue, when the disease usually becomes rapidly widespread. This is the rule, but Ilewett relates one case where the eflhsion of pus and lymph upon the arachnoid was exactly limited to the diseased area of the dura mater. Traumatic arachnitis, as it usually appears, involves the upper and lateral surfaces of both hemispheres, although only the surface of that which corresponds to the bone injury may be aflected. Sometimes tbe surfaces of both hemispheres may be involved without any eflusion at tbe base of the skull. In the majority of cases the arachnoid cavity contains a large amount of a }'ellowish, or greenish-yellow, fibrinous, or purulent exudation. In rare instances adhesions take place between tbe opposite lymph-coated surfaces, and the purulent matter becomes circumscribecl, forming an appar- ent cerebral abscess. Thus I)e la Peyronie,^ Soulier,^ and others have reported cases where the pus extended alongside the falx as low down as tlie corpus callosum. S. "W. Gross has collected a number of cases where circumscrip- • Rokitansky, Manual of Pathological Anatomy (Sydenham Society’s edition), vol. iii. pp. 324-326. 2 OEuvres de Sabatier, tome ii. p. 452. 1796. 3 M^m. de I’Acad. Roy. de Chir., tome i. pp. 210. Paris, 1743.