INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 814 General Macdonald, of the Royal Artillery, was present at Buenos Ayres when a bombardier of that corps received a wound from a two-pound shot, which went com- pletely through tlie right side, so that when led up to the general, who was lying on tlie ground, he saw tlie light quite through him, and supposed he was of course lost. This, however, did not follow, and some months afterwards the man walked into Gene- ral (then Captain) Macdonald’s room, so far recovered from injury as to be then able to undertake several parts of his duty before he was invalided ; thus proving the advan- tage of a shot, however large, going through, rather than remaining in the chest. It may be necessary, therefore, to close a wound, gunshot, incised, or punctured, to command hemorrhage or to relieve urgent dyspnoea, but under other conditions, particularly with gunshot wounds, a patulous orifice is best and most necessary. We find even Guthrie teaching the necessity of being on the alert, in the treatment of incised wounds, to tap, or relieve by counter- opening, on the earliest approach of distress from intra-thoracic accumulation. The experience of the treatment of empyema, and of wounds in general, makes it very probable that when tested in the service of campaigns, where only a fair comparative estimate can be made, suitable antiseptic measures will be found (in spite of the unfavorable field for them which a bullet- wound of the chest offers) to confer great advantages, while their adoption need neither materially complicate the treatment, nor violate any established principle of surgery. The annals of military surgery pi'ove, what might a jyriori he asserted with confidence, that penetrating wounds of the thorax, involving both lungs, are almost al)solutely fatal. Considering the mortality which attends penetrat- ing wounds of one lung, we need not wonder at this fact. Just enough evi- dence exists to prove that recovery is not absolutely impossible; but the facts place such injuries only second in gravity to those of the heai't and great vessels. The immediate risks having been avoided in either of these injuries—wound of either or both lungs—there remains, where any hemorrhage has occurred into the pleural cavity (and this must be in all cases except where pre-exist- ing adhesions prevent it), the cpiestion as to the behavior of such effusion, and as to its appropriate treatment. Almost as constant as the bleeding into the pleural cavity, is the escape of air from the wounded lung, or its introduction from without. Should the wound be small and oblicpie, as from the blade of a knife, or from the bullet of a small pistol, the external wound, even when direct, may fail to admit the air, and then the lung-wound is its only source. The risk is from the mixture of air and blood, a necessary result of these injuries, which may lead to the decomposition of the latter; where the air escapes from the lung into the areolar tissue, in fractures of the ribs, it is already by its passage over the bronchial surfaces so perfectly filtered that it appears to be invariably aseptic. In moderate hnemo- pneumo-thorax, originating by the same route, a similar immunity from putrefactive change exists; and, as the experience of operations for paracen- tesis, apart from the records of military campaigns, proves, even without anti- septic precautions, air, in moderate cpiantity, may sometimes enter and mingle with a serous effusion with impunity. The experience of practical surgeons with this accident has proved, however, that here the border-land between security and danger is reached; while escape from bad results is possible, even without either air-filter or antiseptic, still the risk is imminent. The multiplicity of devices invented to guard against the accidental introduction of air from without, in the operation for paracentesis, proves the reality of its dangers. Blood poured into the pleural cavity, as a rule, coagulates rapidly, and will, at first at least, yield but few signs of its mixture wdtb air; therefore Hippo-