INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 184 the myopia reaches in them a high degree, they lay aside their spectacles for reading and boast of second sight. Just in ]»roportion as they gain in read- ing without glasses, they lose in distinctness of sight for distance, and must use concaves. Myopia is an acquired disease. Hyperopia is a congenital de- fect. In myopia the eyeball is enlarged and strikingly prominent. Around the posterior pole the sclera and other tunics bulge backwards, giving that part of the globe an egg shape. Diagnosis of the refraction of the eye is not always easy. In expert hands, the most direct and independent means of ascertaining the refraction is the ophthalmoscope. But accuracy in this means of diagnosis involves not onl_y a long experience, but an absolute knowledge of the refraction of the observei’^s own eye. If the eye of the examiner and that of the examined are lioth emmetropic, then an absolutely sharp image of the fine vessels in the direct fundus will be obtained. To do this and get a large magnifying power, the eye carrying the ophthalmo- scope must approach almost to contact with that inspected. This is the ex- amination in the erect image. If the examiner’s e^m is myopic, or hyperopic, it must be rendered emmetropic by the proper lens in the eye-clip. If no distinct image of the fine fundus is obtainable, the accommodation of the examiner and examined being relaxed, then there is either hyperopia or myopia. If a convex lens added to the cli}) makes the details clear, there is hyperopia. If a concave is required, it must he mjmpia. In the family of mydriaticswe find a valuable aid in ophthalmoscopic diagnosis. AVhen atro- pine, hyosciamine, or duboisia in strong solution, is applied to the eye, it soon dilates the pupil and paralyzes the ciliary muscle. By this means we eliminate R troublesome factor, the accommodation, and have the e}'e at rest. Moreover, when the accommodation is relaxed in this way, it renders the use of test- glasses in the diagnosis veiy easy, simple, and sui-e. Atropinize a myope, and it will aftect his distant vision little or none. It was bad before, and is so still. Do the same for an emmetrope, and his remote vision will not he seriously changed. It was good before, and is so still. The only change is, that he can no longer read print without the aid of a strong convex lens. Ills power of valuing the refraction, h}^ voluntary contraction of the ciliary muscle, is temporarily lost. Subject a h^’perope to the thorough action of atropine, and his sight for distance will he reduced, more or less seriousljq according to the degree of hyperopia. Then, if a convex glass brings it up to what it was before, hyperopia undoubtedly exists, and the degree is measured by the strength of the glass required to give perfect sight for distance. This is the most certain means of diagnosis, and in all doubtful cases should he resorted to in order to confirm the diagnosis by other methods. One serious objection to the use of the ordinary salts of atropia for this ]iurpose, as well as for facilitating ophthalmoscopic examinations, is the long time (sometimes a week or more) that the eftects last. Happily, the homatropine relaxes the ciliary muscle quickly and thoroughly, and its effect soon passes awajq gene- rally inside of 24 hours. To do this thoroughly it must be strong (8 grains to the ounce), and dropi)ed in freely every 20 or 30 minutes, for two or three times. Ho constitutional effects are noticed, as in the similar use of atropine or duboisia. Duboisia is quite as certain in its effects, and more transient than atropine. Its influence does not pass off as soon as that of homatropine, and it is very liable to produce serious constitutional symptoms. I now use homa- tropine almost exclusively for testing refraction and for ophthalmoscopic examinations; in the latter, applying a much weaker preparation. Hyper- opia may be entirely latent, or altogether manifest. In the former case, it is neutralized by the strong activity of the ciliary muscles, as in children and young people. In the latter, nearly always in persons in advanced life, the lens becomes so hardened that the ciliary muscle can no longer over-