INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 726 suggestive of a niecliaiiical origin of tlie impaiiunent, and unlike hoarseness and loss of voice from other causes. A characteristic “ staccato” st}'le of utterance, due to frequent inspiratory breaks, is often noticed with tumors that encroach much upon the glottis. Dijspnmi occurs only when the growth is large enough to obstruct respiration, or during intercurrent inflammatory swelling of parts adjacent. Indeed, such tolerance is acquired during the slow development of growths, that the lack of dyspncea, sometimes com- patible with very large neoplasms, is otherwise unaccountable. The dyspnoea varies with the size, location, and mobility of the growth. It may he ex- tremely slight, except on exertion. It may be severe enough to thi'eaten apnoea. It may exhibit any intensity between these extremes. Impaction of a neoplasm may suddeidy produce suflbcative apnoea, several fatal examples of which have been recorded by myself.* In some instances, usually indica- tive of a mobile growth, the dj^spnma is diminished by holding the head in a special manner. Dysphagia seldom occurs, unless the tumor occupies the epiglottis, an arytenoid or supra-arytenoid cartilage, or some portion of the pharyngeal surface of the larynx. Other tilings being equal, the dysphagia is generally proportionate to the size of the growtli, although extreme difflculty of swallowing occasionally attends growths of insignificant volume. Regurgi- tation of food into the larynx sometimes takes place, and produces suflbcative paroxysms. Cough is not a fre({uent symptom, unless the growth interest or tickle the vocal bands, whether by its size, its location, or its mobility. Vascular growths bleed sometimes, and excite cough. The character of the cough varies with the nature of tlie growth and the intercurrent laryngitis: it may be dry and hacking, or moist; it may he sonorous, hoarse, mutfled, or toneless, according as the vocal bands are inflamed or impeded in their move- ments. With growths of large size the cough is sometimes brassy, like the cough of croup and of acute laryngitis. There may be no expectoration, or there may be expectoration of mucus, or of mucus and blood. Sometimes portions of a growth are detached in coughing, and expectorated; occasionally a growth is expectorated entire. Pain is infrequent, and usually attributable to intercurrent causes. Considerable aching in the parts is not infrequent. Sometimes the sensation is that of a foreign body that the patient tries to cough out. Severe paroxysms of pain occur in occasional instances. Epileptic seizures may supervene^ in susceptible subjects, as they do in other diseases of the larynx. Growths of unusual bulk occasionally produce some alteration in the contour of the larynx perceptible upon palpation. Diagnosis.—This must he relegated to laryngoscopy. Ralpation through the mouth may sometimes succeed in detecting an intra-laryngeal neoplasm, and more frequently an extra-laryngeal one; but the result is unsatisfactory even when the growth is large and quite high up. With children upon whom laryngoscop}^ may he impracticable, })alpation may he the only avail- able method of objective diagnosis; and it may be mentioned in passing that, under such circumstances, the opportunity should not he neglected, circum- stances favoring it, to make an etibrt to dig the growth out with the Anger, or to detach some portion of it. The mere detection of a growth laryngo- scopically does not always conqilete tlie diagnosis as to its seat, location, size, and mobility. It is sometimes necessary to determine these points, important as guides to treatment, by palpation with a curved sound or flexible bougie manipulated under laryngoscopic inspection. The histological character ot the growth cannot he accurately determined laryngoscojncally; bnt certain general physical conditions about to be mentioned, are sufliciently charac- teristic to justify a probably correct inference. Rortions of a growth may Op. cit. p. 540. 2 Sommerbrodt, Berliner kliiiisclie Woclienschrift, 25 Sept. 1876.