563 PROTIIETIC DENTISTRY. particular tooth—the distinguishing feature of a dentigerous cyst being simply the presence of dental tissue in some form or other. These cysts may occur in any part of the maxilla, and their cause and cha- racter may be inferred from the absence in the arch of a tooth which is unde- veloped. The cases are very rare in which a deciduous tooth becomes encysted. The teeth most frequently found in this condition are the superior cuspidati, and next in frequency the third molars ; but a cyst may form about the crown of any impacted and unerupted tooth. The treatment of these eases is sub- stantially the same as that indicated for a simple cyst—opening, evacuating the contents, and removing the imbedded tooth-substance, which is likely to be fonnd opposite to or furthest from the thinnest part of the expanded wall. Such portions of the hone should be removed as may seem neces- sary, and the cavity should be treated with tincture of iodine. All cutting should, if possible, be done within the mouth. Protiietic Dentistry. This is a far more appropriate term to apply to the art of replacement than the designation of “ mechanical dentistry” which this branch usually receives, since, strictly speaking, more than 90 per cent, of all the opera- tions performed in dentistry are purely mechanical. The filling of every tooth eavuty, with no matter wliat material, belongs to the art of replacement, and is as much a mechanical performance as the construction and insertion of artificial teeth. The term “mechanical dentistry” is unfortunate, too, inas- much as it implies that the requirements for its practice are not above the level of ordinary mechanics, whereas the greatest achievements of protiietic dentistr^^ demand artistic tastes and abilities far beyond those of mere raechanism. Considering the universality of the need, the whole range of medical science affords no greater boon than that which replaces by art lost organs, and thus enables the functions of the liuman economy to go on uninterrupted. The truth of this proposition can only be realized by imagining all the artificial teeth now worn to be suddenly destroyed, and the art of making them forever lost. Artificial teeth of a century since were generally carved out of ivory; porcelain teeth were then unknown. When a full denture was required, the teeth and the base which connected them were carved from a single block ; and, as works of art, in imitation of natui-e, some of these dentures have never been excelled. Another plan of that epoch was to carve a base or plate to fit the gums, and upon that to mount the crowns of natural teeth which had been obtained from other sources. Experience soon demonstrated that ivory was subject to the same influences, when used in the mouth, as the natural teeth, and that it became otfensive and useless from deteriora- tion and decay. In the early })art of the present century, gold and silver plates were substituted for ivory, still using natural crowns for teetli, but as these also in a short time decayed and became useless, porcelain crowns were introduced. The first teeth of this material were made 1)y the French, but were exceedingly rude and unsightly ; very shortly after, that is, about 1830, American dentists began their nianufactui-e, and to day the art is carried to almost absolute perfection, and tlie American manufacturer now supplies almost the entire demand throughout the world. These teeth are com[>osed of quartz, felds})ar, and clay, in proportions of about five parts of s]>ar, two of quartz, and less tlian one of clay, ground into an almost impalpable ]iowder, mixed into a plastic mass, and moulded or carved into form. I’latinum pins are inserted, to facilitate their ultimate