41 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. out from the great sub-arachnoid spaces upon which rest large portions of the base of the brain. Hewett points out that, in addition to this source, another exists in the intra-ventricular fluid, free vent to which would be afforded by a tear of the infundibulum, that is, a part of the floor of the third ventricle. The }»ituitary.gland connected with the infundibulum lies in the sella turcica,' which frequently gives way in basal fractures. Strange as at first sight the statement may appear, watery nasal discharges sometimes accompany fractures of the petrous bone, the fluid escaping by the Eustachian tulie into the nose from the tympanum, to which the cerebro- spinal fluid has gained access by a fracture implicating the internal auditory meatus. But what is the diagnostic value of this symptom as indicative of a fractured base ? Very little, I think, unless it occur immediately after the injury. Even then tliere is no certainty about it. If witli the small extent ofunucous surface of the tympanum and mastoid cells, fluid may be secreted at the rate ot two ounces in an hour without any fracture, surely the same is much more likely to occur from the nose. Accordingly, we find that certain individuals are liable to periodical attacks of free discharge of a limpid fluid from the nostrils, which may last for hours.^ This fact must be borne in mind, lest a clear watery flow from the nose after a head-injury be considered of too great diagnostic value. In certain cases of compound fracture of the vaults where the membranes have been lacerated, a free discharge of tlie cerebro-spinal fluid takes place.^ Although in most instances tlie fluid comes from the sub-arachnoid space, this is not always so. In three cases, one of Avhich has been already quoted in this article,'* the fluid came from the lateral ventricles. In these cases the flow was very free, and in two of them it came on suddenly at a late period.® All proved fatal. Prognosis of Cases complicated hy occurrence of Watery Discharges.—What is the prognostic import of tliese losses of cerebro-spinal fluid? In tliemselves, they seem to exert no apprecial)le effect upon the course of the case, but as they prove an opening into the sub-arachnoid space or into tlie ventricles, they indicate the existence of visceral lesions which always add to the dangers of any skull-fracture. Where the ventricle is not opened, recovery seems to be the rule. Thus out of eleven cases cited by Hewett, eight ended in recovery, the three fatal cases being those in which the lateral ventricle was laid open. Treatment.—^This must consist in the adoption of appropriate measures, as indicated by the general symptoms. In other ivords, the case must be treated upon an expectant plan, with no special reference to the escape of fluid. Traumatic Cepiialiiydrocele.—Prof. P. S. Conner,® of Cincinnati, has col- lected 19 cases of this rare affection, the list including two reported by himself. A traumatic cepiialiiydrocele consists in a subfascial accumulation of fluid, in most instances the result of a simple fracture of the cranial vault. In two cases of gunshot injury, where there had been a communicating wound 1 In Rlandin’s case, Lefore iiientioued, this accident prob.aLly occurred. (Reported by Demar- quay, riaz. des Hdpitaux, j>. 205. 1840.) * See Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 5!U;. ® Dudley, after trephining for epilepsy, found a bony spicule which pressed on the dura mater ; the next day fluid commenced to How and continued to do so for eight <lays, recovery ensuing. (Am. Jour. Med. Sciences, 1828.) O’Halloran (Dnh. Med. Press, vol. xiii. p. 81), and lley, of Leeds (Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 21), also report instances of watery How from the vault after fracture. ^ Rouchaconrt, Hull, de la Soc. Anat. de Pari.s, tome xiii. p. 13. ® Krichsen, op. cit. ; also Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. ji. 597. ® Proceedings of American Surgical Association, 1884.