29 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. the exciter of vibrations, and that we must consider the point whence they start as in reality the point of impact. Aran has pointed out that the curved and elastic spine, hy its recoil, in- creases the violence of the shock in such falls as I have just described. General crushes, where the head is caught between two opposing- forces, fracturing the base as well as other portions of the skull, are also clearly fractures by direct force. Sometimes, wliere the head is thus compressed, the central bones of the base may be the oidy ones bi'oken. Fractures of the base may result from extension of fissures of the vault into the base, the “ fracture by irradiation” of Fano. Finally, basal fractures may result from conduction and amplification of vibrations, or by counter-stroke {contre-coap)^ as it is commonly called. This form of fracture very rarely occurs alone, but is an ofiicient factor in certain instances of the preceding class. If by a fracture by counter-stroke, one directly opposite to the point struck is meant, this probably never occurs except wlien the centre of the vertex is the point of impact. For instance, a violent blow upon the right pai'ietal lioss will not produce a fracture at the left parietal eminence, hut at the base of the cranium, tlirough one or both })ctrous bones. The statement commonly made that the vibrations which are excited in the vault travel by the shortest route to the base, is incorrect. The majority reach the base by the “ shortest anatomical route,” indeed, but that is very different from tlie shortest route. Again, the opinion expressed by a recent writer, that when the petrous bones are l)roken from a fall u[)on the occi}>ut, this is because the “ basilar process rests against the apices of the petrous bones” is both an anatomical and mechanical error. These mistakes arise from failing to remember that the various jiortions of the skull are of varying thickness, and are so constructed for specific ends. If the vault were of even thickness and density, as well as all of the base excc})t its central portions, and if the skull were also a true s[ihere, then true fracture by counter-stroke might occur; for the vibrations wonhl travel in all directions until—being probably of unequal velocity—when they met at the weak, central, basal portion, it would be disru[)tcd. But the skull is of unequal thickness in different parts; it is not a true si>here; and certain portions of its base, although frequently broken, are in reality the densest and strongest. It is unquestionably true, that the ])orti<m of the skull struck, determines wliich of tlie foss;e of the cranial base the fracture will probably ti-averse, when the fracture is not a severe one.’ This I hope to explain by certain anatomical peculiarities of skull structure. The theory that vibrations of the brain produce fractures of the orbital plates, is too manifestly untenable to demaiKl refutation. I need hardly say that the force of the viljrations is directly propor- tioned to the amount of tissue set in motion. Let any oiie attempt to hold a heavy iron bar by one end, while the other, lying on an anvil, is struck a powerful blow with a sledge hammer; I thiidv tliat in most cases the vibrations would force the unprepared hand open, and the bar would fall. Yet, if instead of the large l)ar a fine wire were substituted, and struck with precisely the same force, probably no vibration would be felt, although vibra- tory waves would undoubtedly be set in motion in the wire. In like manner, where the skull is thin, the vibrations arc almost imperceptible; where thick they are marked. AVhen the vibrations, starting in the thinner portions, reach ' In 25 cases analyzed Ly Hewett, tlie fracture was limited tn nne fossa, as follows : the ante- rior fossa in 5 cases, the middle in 14 cases, and the jiosterior in ti instances ; of 29 cases in which two of the fossre were implicated, in 14 tlie midille and anterior fossre were fractured, and in 15 the middle and posterior. In 10 out of 04 cases all three fossre were involved. The middle fossa was fractured in fifty-three of the sixty-four cases examined.