190 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. unharmed globe and enter the cavity. Contusions of the face are very fi-equent, but not often serious. A black eye is the result of such a contusion against the bony projections. Except when the violence is great, the concus- sion is not injurious either to the eye or to the brain. In direct blows on the eye, and in severe, indirect concussion, both may be damaged. Severe contusions, in addition to the bloody infiltration, are liable to be followed by inflammation and abscess. In predisposed subjects, or in times of epidemics, erysipelas with its alarming consequences may result. Orbital abscess, and loss of the eye, or even of life, is in that case to be apprehended. Periostitis and protracted trouble Avith the bones, are a rare sequel. Great depression, \mmiting, and other evidences of cerebral disturbance, add gravity to the prognosis, and demand immediate attention. Contusions of the face and eyes are to be treated as they are elsewhere, never forgetting, however, the proba- bility of erysipelas and abscesses supervening. Orbital abscesses should be detected and opened as quickly as possible. As a rule, the pointing-place of an abscess is the best place to open it. But pus-collections in the eyelids, or orbit, require special care. The incision should be parallel to, and as far as pi’acticable from, tlie free margin of the lid. If the matter comes from the orbit, make the opening close to the edge, so that the cicatrix may not evert the lid. When the time and symptoms indicate a deep collection, an early exploratory puncture ought to be made, avoiding the eye and other im}>ortant organs. If required, a free incision to the bone may be practised, and the exploration thence continued. If the reaction is erysipelatous, constitutional supporting treatment must be pushed from the start. Of course, warm fomentations, poultices, and other local treatment haA’e their value. Al)scesses in the orbit are rare, except after wounds and erysi})elas. But I haA’e seen them in parturition, in low forms of fever, and as an evidence of pyemia. The fistulous tract is usually very long in healing, and then is almost sure to end in an indraAvn adhesion to the bone. Orbital abscess is very apt to result in total blindness, even when the integ- rity of the globe is preserved. The inflammation directly invades and dis- organizes the optic nerve, and Avhite atrophy of the papilla follows. The danger to the sight is particularly great in facial erysipelas. In penetrating Avounds of the orbit, even Avith the presence of a foreign body, the sight sometimes escapes marvellously. In others the optic nerve may be directly seA^ered or injured, and loss of vision, Avithout any violent reaction, is present. I have seen this in several instances. Optic neuritis and atrophy, or the latter alone, liaAm folloAved. The sj/mj)torns of orlfital cellulitis and suppuration, are pain, SAvelling, protrusion and fixation of the eye, and, generalljq marked constitutional disturbance. These go on increasing in intensity, till fluctuation and pointing are detected. Even after free e\mcuation of the pus, the suffering from pres- siu'e Avithin the unyielding orbit is apt to continue for seA^eral days. Vigi- lance and early incisions, in such collections, may save sight, deformity, and long, severe suffering. Becovery after these abscesses is ahvaj’S tedious, and the liall retreats to its natural position very gradually. If the bones are dee])ly cut or fractured at the same time, sloAver healing and suddenlj" fatal developments may be witnessed. Clean cuts of the face and eyelids heal pronq)tly Avhen pi’operly adjusted. Extreme j)ains should he taken, by using- deep, firm sutures, to so adjust Avounds of the lids that the cut tarsus may not be notched or distorted. Ilealing by first intention is of the first importance. In A’ieAV of the graAoty of orbital cellulitis and abscess, treatment must be pronqit and energetic. In most cases sight Avill he lost, and in the scA-er^t forms, the cornea sloughs and the globe atrophies. The starting point and