570 SUKGERY OF THE TEETH AND ADJACENT PARTS. perfect speech with an artificial organ upon one who has been afflicted from birth Avith the absence of the natural organ, and has groAvn to maturity with- out the ability of distinct utterance, is a much more difficult problem. In accpiired lesions, even crude appliances, made without much skill or accuracy, are often beneficial; while in congenifal cases the full resources of science and the nicest adaptations of art are needed to accomplish the desired result. The partial destruction of any organ of speech may occur after the acquire- ment of speech, and nature makes an extraordinary effort to overcome the difficulty by increased use and activity of other organs which in a measure supply the deficiency. Thus, total loss of speech will follow the destruc- tion of the hard palate, but instant restoration will result upon the introduction of pi’oper apparatus. But in a congenital case the faculty of perfect speech must be acquired by })ractice, even after the introduction of the most skilfully constructed and scientific appliance. Apparatus for congenital defects may be of two sorts. First, the gap may he filled with an elastic, movable appliance, so constructed that it will grasp the remnant of the velum upon each side of the fissure, and be lifted or depressed by the movement of the adjacent muscles. Such an instrument must be made long enough to reach the pharyngeal wall Avheii that Avail is advanced by the action of the constrictors. The elevation of the artificial palate the levatores palati, together with the advance of the pharyngeal Avail, as before indicated, Avill form a conjunction Avhich Avill permit the per- fect articulation of oral sounds, while the nasal sounds Avill be heard Avhen the muscles are relaxed and the voice passes by the nares. The second form of apparatus for congenital cases depends for its usefulness entirely upon the activity and control of the constrictors. It is non-elastic and immovable, the part occupying the cleft is made bulbous, and Avith this bulb the pharyngeal Avail comes into contact during constriction. The first form is applicable to all congenital clefts. The second may be used Avhere the superior constrictors are Avell developed and active. The objections to the first form are that the movable part, being made of elastic rubber, must be reneAved from time to time, and that the patient is not quite as independent as Avith the more durable, non-elastic apparatus. The olijections to the latter are that it is not ahvays as certain that the Avearer Avill learn to articulate Avith it as Avith the elastic instrument, Avhich more nearly fulfils the function of the natural organ in movement. With neither kind Avill perfect articulation folloAv immediately, but must be acquired by persistent and thoughtful application and practice. The benefit to be derived from the use of an artificial palate depends upon the intellectual status, the application, and the perseverance of the patient. The responsibility for the result rests solely Avith the patient, after the appli- ance best adapted for the purpose has been introduced. Results cannot be guaranteed. All that can be said is, that appliances can be made Avhich can be Avorn Avith freedom from discomfort, and that a large number of persons have made such use of them as to completely hide in their speech any evidence of their deformity. The improvement is sometimes I’apid and remarkable, in other cases sloAV and tedious—shoAving in the latter a Avant of application, an insensibility to the defect, and a duliiess of capacity on the' part of the patient. The result must he accomplished by the same character of attention and training as Avould be given by an adult to the mastery of a foreign language, or of a musical instrument. There is no li)nit to the age during Avhich such instruments may be introduced, but as bad habits or peculiarities of speech become more and