INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 638 1 Op. cit., p. 86. wound. They are most to be apprehended after wounds of the tracdiea, in which injuries may have been sustained by the thyroidal vessels and the thyroid bod}’. The inflammatory swelling of the tissues during the process of repair may compress the air-passage externally, or encroach upon it internally, producing dyspnoea in either event. Internal wounds of the larynx present no objective symptoms to direct inspection. Laryngoscopic exploration reveals the rent or other lesion in some instances, and fails to do so in others. The subjective symptoms are pain, cough, bloody expectoration, dyspnoea or threatening apnoea, dysphonia or aphonia, and dysphagia or aphagia. Inflammation takes place in all wounds of the larynx or trachea. Some- times restrained within beneficial limits, it may he excessive in debilitated, starved, or drunken subjects, and may readily become gangrenous. Diagnosis.—The special diagnostic signs indicating the penetration of an external wound into the air-passages, are the presence of frothy blood at the seat of external injury, escape of air at the same point, or emphysema of the neck from escape of air into the cervical connective tissue, and escape of fluids through the wound on attempts to swallow them. To these may he added aplionia or dysphonia, aphagia or dysphagia, and dyspnoea or threaten- ing apnoea. Blood which has inundated the air-passage is expectorated in part by the mouth, and in part by the wound. Syncope is the usual result of severe hemorrhage, and in many cases the patients are found in that condition when seen immediately after the injury. Prognosis.—Although recovery ensues in a large percentage of cases of Avounds of the larynx anti trachea, the prognosis is almost always to he regarded as doubtful. Wounds apparently insignificant terminate fatally in some instances ; and recoA^ery sometimes ensues in very severe cases, even when complicated by multiple section of cartilage, and by extensive injury to the pharynx, oesophagus, and other structures. Ilorteloup^ records 67 recoveries out of 88 cases of large wound, and 10 recoveries out of 21 cases of small Avound. Recovery is usually more protracted after punctured, lace- rated, and gunshot wounds, than after contused and incised Avounds. Contusions of the larynx from hloAvs may, according to Durham, proA^e suddenly fatal by shock, or by spasm of the glottis. Insensibility is said by the same writer to be a common effect, and one utilized by garroters to rob their A’ictims. Hemorrhagic eft'usion into the connective tissue ma}’ produce suffocation. Incised Avounds of the trachea present a gi’aver prognosis than those of tlie larynx. In either instance advanced age, insanity, and delirium tremens are additionally had prognostics. Suicidal Avounds, if not fatal Avithin a feAv hours, may pro\m sloA\dy fatal by exhaustion or othenvise, in from one to tAvo weeks. Recovery from severe Avounds rarely ensues earlier than in four or five Aveeks, and sometimes occupies a much longer period. The prognosis is gravest as a rule in gunshot wounds, on account of the complicated nature of the injury in the first instance, Avhich entails inflam- matory tumefaction of the superjacent soft tissues, and on account of the greater danger from secondary hemorrhage. CoiitrariAvise to Avhat has been noticed of incised Avounds, gunshot Avounds of the larynx are much more fatal than those of the trachea. When both of these structures are involved, a fatal