615 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PAROTID GLAND. tid ducts were obliterated; yet Browii-Sequard^ and others have tried to disprove the nature of the transudation, and to show that it is mere perspir- ation escaping in excessive quantity. Parotitis, or mumps, is a common alfection which attacks one gland, or occasionally both, and that simultaneously or in succession, in young males chiefly, and which at times assumes an epidemic character. It is most common before puberty, but has been observed not only in adults but even beyond middle life. In schools and public institutions it lias now and then aftected large numbers, especially in spring and autumn, when cold and damp have been thought to originate it. Its exact pathology has been much dis- cussed.^ It has been ascribed to iheumatism, has been classed with the erup- tive level’s, and, as it is commonly preceded or accompanied by inflammation of the fauces, has been thought by many, in all cases, to proceed by continuity of tissue along the duet. It reaches its acme in two or three days, and in eight or ten days it disappears. Parotitis causes considerable local swelling, which, however, may so spread as to involve the whole side of the neck, especially if the other salivary glands become affected, as they sometimes do. There is no heat or redness, but the pain is considerable, es^iecially during mastication and deglutition. This pain is little if at all aggravated by pressure, as long as no suppuration follows. The attack may be ushered in by chills, sickness, headache, and elevated tenq)erature, and by so much constitutional disturbance as to deceive the practitioner regarding the nature of the ailment, and lead him to expect some serious eruptive fever ; but this only occurs in exceptional cases, as in genei’al there is little or no fever present from first to last. The traiLsference of the inflammation from the parotid to the testicle or mamma, which occasionally (in 2 or 3 per cent, of the cases) occurs about the fifth or sixth day of the attack, is a curious and unaccountable complication of this ailment. It is not as often seen to involve the mammary gland as the tes- ticle, but it does so occasionally, and may implicate the uterus and ovaries as well. The parotitis more j'arely follows the orchitis.® The testicle on the same side as the affected parotid is that usually involved, but this is not always the case. The transference is most often observed in patients who are of somewhat advanced age. Of late years attempts have been made to throw doubt on tliis “ metastasis,” as it has been called, to the testicle, and to allege that when orchitis has appeared there has always been a latent gonorrhoea. I have had most conclusive evidence of the untenableness of this view, but am inclined to think that masturbation during the attack of mumps, had, at least in one case, some influence in attracting the inflammation to the testes. Various otlrer complications in the ear, eye, tonsils, and brain, have been recorded as following parotitis.^ Mumps as a rule subsides spontaneously, and leaves no harm beliind, unless a little thickening which disappears in a short time if not interfered with. A blister may occasionally, however, be thought desii’able, to hasten the dis- persion of the condensation. As to the treatment of the ordinary simple parotitis, little need be said, as rest of the part (using soft food), fomentations, simple or medicated with chamomile flowers, and the use of a saline, are all the remedies which it usually demands. Liniments containing belladonna, camphor, or iodine, are fre- quently employed after the acute stage. The soap and o|)ium liniment, alone ' .lournal do Physiol., tome ii. ^ Trousseau, Clinique Medieale ; Pitha und Hilrotli, Ilandbucli, Bd. iii. S. 373; Gosseliu, Clinique; and Viilal, “ Des Oreillons.” ^ Billoir, Gaz. des Hdpitaux, 1850. ^ 'J’rousseau, Archives Gcnerales de Miidecine, 1854.