HERNIA. 1134 cases of oblique hernia, however, the structures internal to the neck of the sac are so dragged inwards hy its })ressure, that the latter is placed close to the rectus muscle, with the epigastric artery winding round its inner side, and it is often impossible to distinguish the two forms until incisions have been made in operation. In all, however, the direction given to the taxis should he in the line of axis of the tumor—upwards, outwai'ds, and back- wards—the latter direction earlier in the direct form than the oblique. In dividing the stricture at the deep ring, in operations in doubtful cases, the incision should be made directly upwards. Operation for Strangulated Inguinal Hernia.—After failure of a full trial of the taxis, and the symptoms of strangulation continuing unabated, the patient should ho moved to the operating table,and an amesthetic administered, and a final effort with the taxis and inversion then tried. Frequently, when the amesthetic has full inffuence, the rupture will pass u]i. If it does not, the parts should he shaved after anointing them with carholized oil, and washed with a 1-20 solution of carbolic acid, taking care to thoroughly cleanse tlie pubis, penis, and scrotum. If possible, the carbolic spray should be used. An incision is then made through the integuments along the axis of the tumor, from the site of tlie deep ring to the fundus. One or two arterial branches, the deep and superficial external pudic, may require small catgut ligatures; then the inter-columnar fascia and arciform fibres are divided to the same extent, when the muscular fibres of the cremaster are brought into vuew. A director may now he used to divide these and the internal spermatic or infun- dihuliform fascia. Now the yellowish streaks of adipose tissue which indicate the sub-serous fascia, will be seen lying upon the grayish-blue sac. A pinch with the forceps will raise this about the centre, and the scalpel applied liori- zontally will open tlie sac, which must then he slit up upon the finger or straight director as far as the neck. Now the contents of the sac may he carefully examined and turned over. The forefinger, passed upwards to the strangu- lated point, will feel the inner edge of the deep ring, or the opening in the con- joined tendon (according as the case is an oblique or a direct one). The point of the curved, deeply-grooved hernia-director is now carried along the finger and insinuated between the sac and the bowel,and the hernia knife passed along the groove, with its edge directed upwards. If the ease he clearly one of direct hernia, an inward direction may be given to the cut in order to avoid the epigastric artery. If an oblique hernia, an outward direction should he given for the same end. If the case he doubtful (as it may he), a directly up- ward and forward cut is the safest. The cut should he limited to the actuall}' constricting fibres, and, if necessary, further room can he got hy dilatation with the director or the finger. The omentum, if present, should now he drawn down so as to peiTiiit a careful examination of the constricted portions. If it be found s]diace- lated, as maybe known hy its having a dull, dark apiiearanee, and hy its fetid smell, it should he cut off with a pair of blunt scissors, and all the lileed- ing twigs tied with thin catgut. The loop of bowel should then he drawn down fm- an inch and examined on all sides. If the bowel look healthy, retain- ing its glistening surface look, and if no ulceration he found at the constricted po"i’tion, although it may he congested and chocolate-colored, it should he carefully returned into the ahdoininal cavity after the omentum, which should he put up first. The edges of the wound are then brought together with sutures, sufficiently close, a drainage-tube being ]>laced along the bottom and out at the lower end of the wound, and the jiarts dressed and well padded with carholized gauze, tow, or cotton-wool, the whole secured with a s])ica bandage and a support to the scrotum. The patient is then put to bed, with