694 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. warm batli is an excellent relaxant, and may be used systematically at inter- vals of four hours or longer. Relaxing inhalations of chloroform or of amyl nitrite may he necessary in the presence of threatening spasm of the glottis. Should the disposition to spasm be at all pronounced, precautionary trache- otomy will he indicated. Chronic Laryngitis. Chronic laryngitis may he idiopathic, deuteropathic, or traumatic. Idio- pathic chronic laryngitis may affect the superficial layers of the mucous mem- brane only {chronic catarrhal laryngitis)^OY the glands likewise {chronic glandular laryngitis). The former variety may be a sequel of repeated attacks of acute laryngitis, or may occur in extension of a similar affection of the pharynx. Sometimes it appears due to the inordinate use of tobacco, or of alcohol, or of condiments. The latter variety is almost always an extension of a similar affection of the pharynx, and is most frequent in individuals who are com- pelled to make excessive use of the voice. Both varieties sometimes occur in association with chronic hyperiemia or infiammation of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane. Males are affected more frequently than females, and adults more than children. Deuteropathic chronic laryngitis occurs in arthritis, tuberculosis, syphilis, lupus, sarcoma, and carcinoma, as part of their patho- logical history, and is sometimes a permanent sequel of the laryngitis of measles, scarlet fever, smallpox, croup, or diphtheria. It may be catarrhal, glandular, or suppurative. Traumatic chronic laryngitis occurs as a result of wounds and injuries sustained by the mucous membrane. It may be catar- rhal and suppurative. All the varieties may be associated with tracheitis. Chronic Catarrhal Laryngitis.—Tliis is a chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane, sometimes attended with hypersecretion. Some capil- laries and veins upon the surface are usually dilated, and in some cases even those in the submucous tissue. Erosions are infrequent. Infiltrations into tbe submucous connective tissue, and proliferations of the connective-tissue elements, are not uncommon; and permanent thickenings, circumscribed or diffused, regular or irregular in conformation, are occasional results. Per- manent thickenings are more frequent in the deuteropathic Y’arieties. Chronic Glandular Laryngitis.—There is inflammation of the mucous glands, as well as of the superficial layers of the mucous membrane, and hyperplasia of their histological elements. Desquamation and degeneration of immature epithelium replace, in greater or less degree, normal secretion. A })eculiar variety of chronic glandular laryngitis—desiccative laryngitis, laryngitis sicca—occurs chiefly in females. The viscid products of secretion and desquamation.adhere to the surface of the mucous membrane, and undergo desiccation there into annular and fragmentary fetid crusts, yellowish, greenish, or brownish in color, according to their admixture with mucus, pus, or blood. At intervals of a day, or of several days, these crusts are detached bj^ violent efforts of cougli, having sometimes become partially detached by superficial suppurative inflammation beneath them. Excoriations, in part hemorrhagic, are sometimes to be noticed at tlie points from which the crusts have been detached. The crusts themselves arc composed of pus and mucus, and much more largely of desquamated epithelium, deformed, degenerated, and fatty. In most of the instances seen by myself, the crusts have occupied the mucous membrane in the domain of the cricoid cartilage and the upper rings of the trachea. In some they have occupied a ventricle ; in others they have bridged