INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TUE AIR-PASSAGES. 774 first from one side, and subsequently from the other. According to Schuller's researches, this is best done by dividing the deep cervical fascia {fascia i^o- funda colli^ Luschka) immediately enveloping the larynx, so as to afford entrance to an elevator or other blunt instrument, with which the fascia and superjacent tissues may be separated from the thyroid cartilage in mass, and, as far as possible, without the aid of the knife. The thyro-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles having been detached from the larynx, and the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland separated with a blunt instrument, without unneces- sary rupture of its connections with the trachea—which are useful in restrain- ing descent of the windpipe (INIaydl)—the soft parts are to be held to one side with a blunt retractor, and the larynx pulled over to the opposite side Avith a sharp double hook, so that the constrictor muscles of the pharynx can be divided as close as practicable to their attachments to the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. The tliyroid cartilage should then be pulled forwards and to the opposite side, so as to expose the superior laryngeal artery as it penetrates the hyo-thyroid membrane (Schiiller). This artery should be secured with tAvo ligatures, between Avhich the knife should be passed in seA^ering the hyo- thyroid membrane and the anterior Avail of the pharynx in the next stage of the operation. At this point of the procedure, the important decision must be made as to the disposal of the epiglottis. If it is to remain, the knife is passed througli and beyond the hyo-thyroid membrane, and the thyro- epiglottic ligaments are severed. If it is to be removed, the knife is to be carried upAvards through the hyo-thyroid membrane instead of backAvards, so as to ])ass between tie tongue and the epiglottis, and its course may be controlled (Schuller) by guidance of the left foretinger passed into the patient’s mouth. When the lateral portion of the membrane is divided first, the epiglottis can be draAvn out, and can thus be protected from the range of the knife in completing the section. The entire laiynx is noAv to be pulled forAvard by means of shaiq) hooks inserted at its superior incisure, a blunt tool is to be gently insinuated behind the cricoid cartilage to keep it clear from the posterior pharyngo-cesophageal Avail, and tlie larynx is then to be separated from its further connections Avith the pharynx and the a*sophagus, first laterally, and then from above doAvnwards. Special care is requisite in freeing the cricoid cartilage from the anterior Avail of the oesophagus. Any bleeding A^essels unattended to during the dissection should uoav be permanently secured, Avhen, all hemorrhage being under control, the trachea, unless already adherent to the integument, is to he secured Iw two ligatures, and then the final step of the exsection is taken by severing the larynx from the trachea from behind fonvards. Should it be evident, befoi’e this final section is made, that the cricoid cartilage is in no Avay inA'oh’ed in the disease, it is considered highly desirable (Maas, Wegner) to make the section through this part so as to leave a A’ery small strip of the cartilage intact, as an additional su])port for the adjustment of an artificial substitute for the larynx. Should the cricoid cartilage or its mucous mem- brane be in any Ava}" involved in the disease, the section should be made iu the crico-tracheal membrane, or better, perhaps, beloAV the first ring of the trachea. Sliould the trachea exhibit indications of disease at this point, the section should l)c made betAveen the second and third rings. The upper end of the divided tracliea is finally secured to the integument by several points of interrupted suture. In suturing the trachea to the integument, Gussenbauer recommends a ])lan employed by himself; From two to four deep sutures are taken beneath a ring, to secure the trachea firmly to the integumeut,Avhile several superficial stitches arc employed to bring the tracheal mucous membrane into accurate contact Avith the skin, so that their epithelial layers may become united. The better