675 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-PASSAGES. 111 the great majority ot cases, however, it ivill he found necessary to make an artificial opening into the air-passage from the exterior.^ The point at which the incision is to be made will depend on the subject to be operated upon, and on the character and position of tlie foreign body. If a large or irregularly shaped substance be impacted in the larynx, it may become necessary to divide the thyroid cartilage {thyroklotoriiy) to get proper access to it. Smaller and smooth objects may be reached through wounds in the crico-thyroid membrane only {crico-thyroid laryngotomy). In cases of foreign body in the trachea or bronchi of the adult, and almost always in children, traclieotomy is preferable to crico-thyroid laryngotomy, as affording greater freedom of manipulation for dislodgraent. The incision should be about one inch long in the child, and an inch and a quarter in the adult. Very often the foreign body is ejected through the wound the moment after the air-passage has been opened. Sometimes it is ejected through the mouth. Sometimes it is driven to the orifice of the wound, whence it may be extracted with forceps. Should the foreign body fail to appear, the patient is to be turned over so that succLission may be tried to dislodge it. This failing, the surgeon may blow strongly into the trachea, so that the air, thus compressed, may become more expulsive in the cough which follows. Should all these methods fail, search must be made for the bodjG For this purpose it is customary to have the edges of the wound held apart by a special dilator—the two-bladed instrument of Trousseau (Fig. 1040), or the three-bladed one of Laborde (Fig. 1041), being held in position by an assis- Fig. 1041. taut. Dress-hooks, or other bent hooks, attached to a tape or an elastic band, to go round the neck, will answer the purpose. The automatic retractor ‘ According to Gnyon (loc. cit.), first formally proposed in 1044, by Momavius, and first practised in tlie presence of Verduc (Pathol, de Chir., tome. ii. p. 840. Paris, 1710j.