UxMBILICAL HERNIx\. 1167 In large lieruiee, and in fat women with obstructed or complicated hernire of long standing, the fundus of the tumor, if large enough, should be first lifted up so as to avoid pressing its neck against the lower edge of the constricting opening. Then the whole tumor should be gently kneaded and compressed (as directed heretofore), so as to press out any flatus and feces that may be present. The occurrence of borborygmus is a favorable sign. Then any inclosed bowel may pass into the abdominal cavity with a sudden fio]>, and the omentum, very often adherent, will remain as a soft doughy mass, which will usually give little trouble, unless the inflammation of the sac end in suppurative action, as it sometimes does. Too much pressure should not he used, and if the tumor be very tender, or the symptoms of sickness, etc., very severe, or if the obstruction persist after the use of oil and turpentine enernata, and fomentations, an operation for the relief of strangulation should he had recourse to. This operation, on account of the frecpiency of morbid changes in the contents of the rupture, and the nearness of its site to the symjiathetic ganglia, stomach, and liver, is of a more dangerous character than in other cases of hernia. The continued application of ice to the hernia is also to be avoided, for the same reasons, and also l)ecause of the thinness and abnormal congestion of the hernial coverings, and the close proximity of the enfeebled bowel to the cold ice-bag, endangering mortification. Operation for Stran(IULATEd Umbilical Hernia.—An amesthetic having been administered, and the patient [ilaccd on the back, with the shoulders raised, and a last effort at the taxis having been made, tlie tumor, if large, should be lifted up from the abdomen Ijelow, and, under the carbolic spray, an incision from two to three inches long, in the median line, should be care- fully made, the thinness of the walls being borne in mind. The incision should extend below the navel-cicati’ix, down to the lower border of the her- nial opening, in order to obtain good drainage after tlie operation, as well as to bring into good, open view, tlie lowei- edge of the strangulating ring and the viscera in contact witli it. The sac should be carefully opened on a direc- tor ; but before doing so a towel, wet with Avarm 1—tO carliolic lotion, should be spread on the abdomen on each side of the hernia, to receive and inclose any intestines that might fall or be forced out. The amesthetic should be regu- lated at this time, so as to iirevent cough-sti-aining as much as }»ossible. The sac should be pinched np with forceps, and opened, witli the scalpel held hori- zontally. Into the opening thus formed, after being enlarged liy the fingers, the broad hernia-director should lie passed downwards, and u})on it the sac slit up in the median line, carefully avoiding the bowel. The loop of stran- gulated gut should noAV be gently lifted up, and the curved director passed over the lower constricting edge of the hernial opening into the abdomen, and this edge cautiously divided with the hernia-knife snfliciently far to relieve the strangulation. The bowel and omentum should then be examined closeljx If the former be ulcerated by the edge of the opening, the soft adhesions should be separated, and the injured part of the bowel placed opposite the opening in the skin, the gut being drawn a little out of the abdominal cavity to pre- vent any danger of fecal extravasation into the iieritoneal cavity. If the bowel be fairly sphacelated, as indicated by its loss of lustre, dee}> Iflack color, and ])utrefactive smell, an opening should l)e made in it, and the sides should be stitcheil with thick, soft silk, steeped in carlxflized oil, to the edges of the cutaneous incision. One or two stitches may be put in on each side, before the I.)f»wel is 0]»ened, to prevent retraction, and a vessel, or large Avarni sponges, should be held ready to receive the fecal outpour. If the bowel lie iidact, and only co)igested, of a chocolate color, it may be returned. The omentum, which should at first be turned up over the upper edge of the hernial open-