729 MORBID GROWTHS OR THE LARYI^X. from remnants of ill-extirpated growths, inefficiently cauterized. Some so- called recurrences are developments in new sites, and in no way associated with the original neoplasm. Papillomas are sometimes tortured into malig- nancy by irritation attributable to numerous unsuccessful attempts at evul- sion, and occasionally by irritation from harassing cough and local friction. Fibromas and adenomas occasionally undergo malignant transformation. Growths unoperated upon, and growths subjected to inefficient, meddlesome interference, sometimes undergo suppurative inflammation, with development of an abscess which usually points externally, whether through the crico- thyroid membrane, or directly through the intermediate thyroid cartilage. The s[>ontaiieous or operative discharge of the contents of tlie abscess is some- times followed by fistula. Some growths, probably merely local thickenings of tissue, occasionally undergo s})ontaneous absorption ; and veritable neo- plasms sometimes undergo spontaneous detachment. Treatment of Benign Laryngeal Groivths.—Small growths, oflering no im- pediment to respiration, present no indication for surgical interference, save when they impair the voice of an individual dependent upon its use for a live- lihood. In other instances, slight hoarseness can readily be tolerated; and the indication for intervention I’eraains optional unless the growth undergoes enlargement, when jirompt measures foi‘ its removal become advisable. Small growths often remain stationary for long series of years. Medical treatment may be dismissed as useless, except in syphilitic subjects in whom condy- lomata or gummata may be mistaken for neoplasms. Even in the case of tuberculous granulomata, surgical treatment is often indispensable. Fig. 1078. Fexible sponge-holder with bayonet-catch. Fig. 1079. Cohen’s rigid sponge-holder with iateral slide-catch. Two methods of surgical treatment are in vogue : one liy ivay of the natural passage, principally or practically under laryngoscopic guidance; the other by direct attack, after external incision into the larynx. Tntra,-la.r]ivgeal p'rocedares coin]»risc chemical or thermic cauterization, in- cision, abscission, crushing compression, and evulsion.