1040 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. ovarian tumor, fresh intiammation may he lighted up in the remains of the cyst. Such was proliably the course of events in a case described by M. (ioupil,^ in which a tumor burst and discharged per vaginani, when the girl Avas in her eighteenth j^ear ; at twenty-nine a violent attack of pain was followed by metrorrhagia, and at thirty-three a tumor existed in the right hypogastriurn, continuing painful for one month, and then subsiding in size under treatment. Treatment.—Until comparatively recently, these cases had been left to the merciless course of the disease; or at best, attempts to give temporary ease from pain and distension by tapping, had been made. As a step in adA^ance of simple tapping, free incision anef drainage Avere adopted, and a fcAv cases in Avhich this practice Avas followed recovered. Incision and drainage have been made thi’ongh the abdominal Avail, through the vagina, and through the rectum, the first being the best; but feAV Avomen are strong enough to bear the exhausting suppuration Avhich goes on under these circumstances, some- times for many months. In December, 18G4, Keitli, of Eclinburgli, performed ovariotomy upon a woman in a state of semi-delirium from septic fever, for a very large sui)purating tumor.'' Ilis remarks thereon are so striking that I must quote his own Avords : “ This Avas probably the lirst time that surgery broke in upon an acutely inflamed peritoneum. The intense lividity, amounting almost to blackness, of the abdominal contents, and the spongy tenderness of inflamed intestine, Avere then strange to me, though thought little of now. Kecent lymph Avas present eveiyAvhere; adherent boAvel and mesentery hedged in a thick-walled cyst, the base of Avhich Avas in a complete state of slough. Inflam- mation had gone on to gangrene, and there was intense putridity. After an operation wliich Avent on for tAvo hours, the patient Avas placed in bed, cold, vomiting, and nearly pulseless. It seemed as if we had simply killed her, yet she got ra[)idly into heat, the restless delirium at once disappeared, there Avere Avarm perspirations, much sleep, and a recovery Avithout a drawback.”^ In Uebruary, 1875, Iveitb contributed bis classical article to the Edinburgh Medical Journal, and it marks a most striking era in the history of ovari- otomy. Therein he records seven cases of acute sup])uration of ovarian tumors which he had submitted to ovariotomy, and he tells us that up to that time he had operated in the same Avay upon ten acute and two chronic cases, and that in all save tAvo of the acute cases the patients recoA^ered. This result Avas obtained against Avhat seemed to be very desperate odds; and in one case the cyst had actually ruptured into the peritoneal cavity, yet recovery folloAved the operation. In all these cases, Avhere the temperature Avas very high before, tliere was a tall of several degrees Avithin a very fcAv hours after the operation. In only one of the acute and one of the chronic cases Avere there no adhesions; in others the adhesions Avere of the graA’est nature, and the operations were tedious and severe. Indeed, Keith says of them— “ To an onlooker, Ibaa' operations look so hopeless as those for the removal of acute suppurating cysts. I'lie general condition is ahvays unfavorable, and as a rule ovari- otomy is in these circumstances tedious and severe. To be believed in, such cases need almost to be seen.” Yet he concludes ([). C87), “ The extreme feebleness of pulse and depression of the vital poAvers, Avhich all cases of acute suppurating cyst present, must not deter one from operating. Hopeless Avithout interference, they are not the unfavorable cases for operation that they seem, or, judging from the small jiumber of reported successful results, have hitlierto been regarded.” Ovariotomy in sucli cases must be, of course, followed up by the most scrupulous attention to the cleanliness of the peritoneum, before closing the • Bulletin de la SociSte Medicate d’Observation, 1856. 2 Tliis case Avas reported fully in the Lancet, 1865. Edin. Med. Journal, Feb. 1875, p. 674.