778 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. Fig. 1097. Glasgow, and were eraploj’ed in Foulis’s case.* The third modification alluded to, and which I think is due to Gussenhauer, is a fiexible pharyngeal tube, arranged in lobster-tailed links.^ Similar flexible appliances have been constructed on devices of V. von Bruns and of Caselli. lleine^ has modified the original device both by flattening the pharyngeal canula and giving it a more rectangular shape, so that it can be directed forward rather than backward and that the conduit can be thus straightened; and by adjusting a turn-key to the reed, so that it can be moved aside when not in use, and thus be less of an obstruction to respiration. Metal, ivory, hard rubber and soft rubber, constitute the chief materials used for reeds. Some observations of my own, years ago, on artificial speech, seemed to indicate that plates of ivory, shaved very thin, would imitate the human voice better than any other material, but I have not the slightest per- sonal knowledge of the working of an artificial larynx in the subject of a laryngectomy. It is hardly requisite to go into farther details concerning these appliances. jSlearly every case is liable to prasent some individual features re- quiring an apparatus specially constructed to meet them. Sometimes very complicated appa- ratus is required (Fig. 1097), as when an attempt is made to supply tlie missing anterior wall of the oesophagus, as was done in Lange’s case.^ Great difference is presented in the toleration of these appliances. In some instances they give little troul)le, and are used with great comfort. Some subjects bear the naked apparatus well, hut cannot tolerate the phonal reed, which may impede respiration, may become obstructed with desiccated mucus, and may yield a tone to every breath of expiration. Some abandon them altogether, and stick to the simple tracheal canula. In some instances, saliva, mucus, and aliment will get into the tubes and descend into the trachea. Some patients prevent the escape of food by plugging the upper orifice with cotton, when they eat. Czerny closed the top of the tube, in one instance, with a sort of hood, and placed the respiratoiy orifice in the front wall. This orifice was occluded during deglu- tition by the broad plate of a soft rubber ring, cut in the shape of a seal- i-ing and drawn over the top—a cricoid structure at the wrong end of the larynx. Avtiflcial larynx with oesophageal oh- uirator. (Lange.) A. Epiglottis. B. Artificial anterior wall of the oeso- phagus. C. Soft rubber connection. J>. Chamber containing removable vocal bands. E. Rubber cork, removable for opening or closing the tracheal tube. F. Tracheal tube with lower portion entering the trachea, made of soft rub- ber'. Motor Disturbances of the Intrinsic Laryngeal Muscles. Motor disturbances of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx often produce subjective symptoms similar to those discussed in connection with diseases of a surgical character, and some of them are to be remedied only by surgical intervention. The cause may reside in disease of the nerve, in disease of the muscle, in disease of tlie joint, or in cicatricial adhesions. Close scrutiny under • Lancet, January 2(J, 1878, ji. 119. 2 Prager inecl. Wocli., No. 31, 1883. Separat-Alxlruck. * Bolun. Correspondenz-Blatt., No. 17, 1874. ■* Loc. cit.