INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. G18 apertures along which they had passed hecame permanently established as internal openings. Threads of gold, silver, silk, and catgut, have been substi- tuted for the lead, and additional means have been used to consti’ict and divide the piece of soft tissue inclosed in the loop, without improving De- guise’s method. Langenbeck and Van Buren dissected out the extremity of the duct where it opened on the cheek, with a margin of the surrounding tissue, and carried the whole through the cheek into the mouth, fixing it there for some weeks by fine wire sutures, while tlie outer wound was closed. Professor Horner attained the same end by placing a broad wooden spatula in the mouth, to protect the tongue, and then removing entirely the fistulous orifice with a large sharp punch, so as to drive a hole right through the cheek. The outer wound was then united by the twisted suture. Maisonneuve tried to cut ofl‘ the fiow of saliva from the parotid, by appl}’- ing pressure between it and the fistulous opening, and it has been asserted that pressure applied to the parotid itself has brought about its atrophy, and thus arrested the stream of salivary fluid ivliich escaped. These latter reme- dies, however, need hardly be discussed. Finally, autoplastic operations may be resorted to if an internal orifice have been secured, and if the exter- nal opening cannot be otherwise closed. If a calculus is impacted in the duct, its presence can easily be recognized by the swelling and discomfort which it occasions, and by an examination made with one finger within the mouth, and another outside the cheek. These calculi are of an elongated shape, and lie in the axis of the duct. They should be at once removed by a free incision on the buccal surface, while pressure is kept up by the finger outside. They may, if left, occasion the formation of a fistula, by setting up ulceration. Tumors of the Parotid.—The parotid is occasionally the seat of various tumors of a simple or malignant kind. They may consist of one element, but they are more usually mixed. The simple growths are either mere hy- pertrophy, which is veiy rare indeed, or consist of fibrous, cartilaginous, adenoid, fatty, and myxomatous elements. Of malignant tumors, carcinoma is not very rare, while sarcoma is occasionally seen, and the recurrent fibrous [spindle-celled sarcoma] is also met Avith. Cysts have their seat at times in this region, and these difierent neoplasms may be variously combined. The lymphatic glands lying OA^er and in the parotid, may become the seat of enlargement, or may be altered in structure; and in this Avay the surgeon has at times no easy task to distinguish with accuracy the nature of the tumor which he is called upon to treat. It is by a consideration of the clinical history and physical characters of the tumor, and of its effects on neighboring structures, as Avell as by observing the age and condition of health of the patient, that a surgeon is chiefly guided in his opinion. The sIoav, painless groAvth in an outAvard direction; the absence of close adhesion to the parts beloAV, above, and around, so that the fingers can, as it Avere, be inserted beloAV the tumor, and separate it from its surroundings ; the healthy condition of the distended skin ; the non-existence of facial paralysis and lymphatic gland-irritation as Avell as of other pressure- effects, and the non-involvement of the general health, Avould point to the tumor being innocent. The cancers again contrast in all respects Avith such groAvths, hut in varying degrees according to their special forms. The hard, ill-defined tumors Avhich appear under the ear in persons at or after middle life, early fixed (especially laterally), Avith pain flashing up to the temple and doAvn the side of the neck, markedly compressing surrounding structures and so interfering Avith their function, groAving rapidly, involving the