865 SUB-PARIETAL CONTUSION ANU RUPTURE OF VISCERA. are generally more or less pedunculated and of a briglit-red color, tliougli sometimes they are ivart-like, or like a granulation-tumor. A small aperture, admitting a pi’obe, is usually seen on tlie summit, and when the polyjius is associated with a fecal or urachal listula, as it sometimes is, the probe can be passed inwards a long distance. Earely, they bleed to a dangerous and even a fatal extent. iMicroscopicall}^ they consist of branched mucous glands having a fibro-nucleated stroma, and are covered and lined by epithelium of the columnar type. The treatment consists in ligaturing the pedicle and allowing it to dry up and fall otf‘. If a fistula coexists, the ligature may also cure it. Mr. Holmes^ reports a case of biliary listula at the navel, in a hoy aged ten years, in which discharge of pure bile followed the removal of one of these fleshy polypi. II .EMORRiiAGE FROM THE UMBILICUS.—There is a rare form of hemorrhage from the umbilicus of new-born infants, Mdiich is almost universally fatal. It affects boys twice as often as girls, and is niore fatal in the former. Its cause is a vitiated state of the blood, due to jaundice, or to a tiansmitted hem- orrhagic or syphilitic d^’scrasia, whereby the natural obliteration of the um- bilical arteries is prevented, OAving to the non-coagulating character of the blood. Hemorrhage of a most intractalde character, eitlier traumatic or idiopathic, may occur about the insertion of the cord before its detachment,, but it generally occurs after the separation, and wlien the undiilicus has nearly cicatrized; tlius it is within eighteen days from birth, and generally in the second Aveek, that it commences, Avhilst the cord separates about the fifth or sixth day. It is fatal, on the average, Avitliin forty-eight hours ; but mail}’ cases have lingered on for many days. The children have, as a rule, been Avell formed, have lieen born of bealthy ]»arents and in natural labor, and have appeared healthy at and for a tcAv days after birth ; then infantile jaundice, and in some instances purpura, has set in and preceded the hemorrliage. A com- bination of jaundice and purpura seems to be a ]>reeursor of certain death. In a large number of cases tbere has been a hereditary tendency to bleed, a tendency Avhicb, as experience bas amply sboAvn, more frequently affects the males of a family. The treatment consists in the use of mild but actiAm cathar- tics, and of anti-hemorrhagic remeilies. Compression and styptics (a })iece ot sponge soaked in a saturated infusion of alum or matico) are useful, but have rarely l)een permanently successful. Cauterization lias done harm, and no good can be expected from it in any form. Tbe ligature of the umbilicus en, masse, Avith tAvo needles transfixing it at right angles, offers tbe best chance of permanently arresting the bleeding.^ Sub-parietal Contusion and Rupture of Viscera. It has been said above, and I must noAV repeat, that every injury to the abdomen, hoAvever slight it may ap[)car at the time, ought to lie Avatched Avitli apprehension and treated Avith care. Wliat is true respecting injuries to the head is equally true respecting those of the abdomen, namely, that unexpected symptoms may arise, and death ensue, from a slight bloAv; but that, on the other hand, violence, a}iparently severe, may be neither attended nor folloAved by any grave effect. Whilst therefore Ave are encouraged to ' System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. iii. p. 793. * For further iiiforniation on tliis subject, see a very valuable ])aper by Dr. Stephen Smith, in tbe New York .lournal of Medicine, New Series, vol. xv. p. 73; and a paper on “Umbilical Ibfinorrbage,” by Dr. Tborold, in tbe Ediub. Med. .Journal, September, 18(J3, p. 272. VOL. —-^r)