368 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. to from two to ten of warm water—will answer the purpose well. Some- times, when the disagreeable odor is strong, I nse, after a thorough syringing with one of tliese alkaline solutions, a spray of equal parts of “ Listerine” and water; it destroj^s fetor very quickly, and substitutes for it the pleasant odor of thyme. It will be noticed that I use no sodium chloride in any of these cleansing solutions. I believe that it does more harm than good ; that the saline solution favors endosmosis as it passes over the nasal mucous mem- brane, and therefore increases rather than diminishes intra-nasal swelling. Many other formulae will suggest themselves, as, for instance, Glycerini acidi carbolici, fSjss; sodii biborat. 5j; aquae, ad Oj. Liquoris potassii per- manganatis, f3jss; sodii biboratis, 3j ; aquae, Oj. Acidi salicjdici, gr. x ; sodii bicarbonatis, 3j 5 aquae, Oj. All solutions, whatever their nature, should be at about blood beat when used. In the severer forms of nasal disease—those attended by the formation and firm impaction in the passages of hard, dense crusts—as in simple and syphilitic ozaena, atrophic and fetid catarrh, and the like, the use of the siiray apparatus will not be suificient to dislodge these, in the first instance, and a more powerful means (short of direct instrumental removal) must be employed. This may be best obtained by the posterior nasal syringe, of hard rubber or metal, which is used to cleanse the parts posteriorly by way of the pharynx and posterior nares ; or by means of a suit- ably curved hard-rubber tube used in the same way, its terminal extremity Fig. 921. being pierced with coarse perforations, presenting forwards when the instru- ment is in place; or, jierhaps, with a slit sawn transversely, so as to give a fan-like stream, and this fastened to the well-known double hand-ball rubber Fig. 922. Posterior nasal tube fitted to Davidson’s syringe. tube of the Davidson apparatus. For the anterior nares, the ordinary hard- rubber syringe of the anrist answers the purpose. Methods and Instruments of Medication.—If I exclude, for the moment, the use of caustics and of surgical rneasui-es in the management of catarrhal conditions of the nares, the treatment is based both clinically and practicall}^ either upon the employment of various medicated fluids, used in spray by