442 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. tulfe, and the result ot a careful exploration of the parts as detailed when speaking ot the treatment of foreign bodies in the nose, usually leave no room lor doubt as to the nature of the injury, even though a considerable time has elapsed since its reception. Interesting cases are given of this form ot accident by A\^illiamsoid and Lawson;^ in the case recorded by the latter, the right cavity of the nares was necessarily laid open by incision, to atford space for the extraction of the foreign body, a portion of the breech of a fowling-piece that had exploded in the patient’s hands. A somewhat similar case, reported by Noyes, is alluded to elsewhere in this essay. Burns and scalds of the nose are of special importance, in view of the possible distortion of the organ, of the partial closure of one or both nasal orifices by cicatricial tissue, or of the results of cicatricial contraction if the lesion be at all extensive. Their ultimate eftects exceed therefore in gravity those which are immediate, and are to be guarded against during the healing process by promptly meeting the indications that suggest themselves. The operation necessary for the restoration of the calibre of the nostril has already been considered. Deficiencies and Deformities of the Nose. Congenital absence of the nasal organ is a rare condition. A case is reported by Maisonneuve,® in which the nose of a female infant of 7 months was replaced by a plane surface, merely pierced by two small holes. Other cases are said to be upon record, but I am unalile to find them. Holmes regards the malformation as incurable. Congenital clefts and fissures of the nostrils are simply prolongations of the natural opening, outwards into the cheek, or upwards towards the angle of the eye. They are very unusual, and as a rule can be closed by plastic operations. Double Nose.—Dr. S. AC. Gross has related to me the particulars of an interesting case of this unusual condition. The auxiliary organ, apparently an outgrowth of the first, was of about one-half its size, and into it the tear- duct opened. Borellus^ mentions a similar case, and Bartholinus® one in which a little tumor, like a second nose, grew on the root of the principal or normal one. (ACatson.) There would probably be no great difficulty, in such instances, in remedying the deformity by a simple operation. Congenital occlusion of the nostrils and of the posterior nares has been elsewhere considered (see page 404). Slight deformities in the size and position of the nose are commonly seen. The central portions of the face and skull are but slowly develo])ed, when compared with the rate of growth of other parts, and this is particularly true of the frontal eminences and the sinuses communicating with the nose. Thus, the latter organ in the infant always presents a flattened ajipearance, which may persist in later years. The same reason suffices to account for other well-known deviations from the normal contour. Harrison Allen® 1 Quoted by Watson, op. cit. ® Bull, de Therap., tome xlix. p. .559. 1855. * Hist, et Obs. Medico-physio. Cent. III., Obs. 43. ® Fbila. Med. Times, Dec. (1, 1879. * Diseases and Injuries of. the Eye, 2d ed, ® Hist. Anat. Rar. Cent. I. Hist. 25.