703 PERICHONDRITIS AND CHONDRITIS. Similar exfoliation of tlie cricoid has heen reported by Ilimter,* and by myself.^ A very circuitous route to the exterior is sometimes taken. Thus an abscess, originating at the posterior portion of the cricoid, may point in the pre-thyroid region.^ Tistula often results, and extensive em}>hysema may thereby ensue. Durham reports an instance^ in Avhich the emphysema was more extensive and general than in any other case of any kind which had come under his observation. Perichondritis of the thyroid cartilage, suppurating Avitli pointing of the abscess externally, sometimes occurs independently of disease of the interior of the larynx. In an instance noted by Dr. Gibb,® the pus had a peculiar blue color. Si/mptonis.—The symptoms are much tlie same as those of seA^ere acute or chronic laryngitis, Avith pain, elicitable on pressure externally, and sometimes in deglutition and in })honation. Should the disease progress, hoarseness, cougli, and dysphagia soon occur; then dyspncea, perhaps, Avith stridulous respiration or })aroxysmal apnoea; and eventually symptoms of stricture. Discharge of the abscess excites cough and expectoration, folloAvetl by gi’eat subsidence in the local distress. Should fragments of cartilage become lodged in the chink of the glottis, suffocative apnma may ensue. Diagnosis.—The location of the pain, Avhether spontaneous or elicited by palpation, often indicates Avhich cartilage is atfected. Laryngoscppic inspec- tion reveals local tumefaction or abscess in the domain of the diseased cartilages. Perichondritis of the cricoid Avill be indicated liy SAvelling beneath the vocal bands, sometimes })Osterioi'ly, and sometimes at the side. (Pig- 1002.) When an arytenoid cartilage is involved, the abscess points aliove the AUAcal bands—as it does sometimes Avhen both cartilages are implicated. (Fig. 1063.) Sometimes the collateral cederna is so great as to obscure the charac- teristic tumefaction. Arytenoidal disease is usually indicated further by Fig. 1062. Fig. 1063. Primary perichomlritis of cricoid cartilage (Tiierck.) a, iurier wall of ab.scess. Perichondritis of cricoid cartilage, with loss of aryte- noid, in enteric fever. (Tnerck.) a, wall of abscess. lack of movement of the correspoioling vocal band, or by actual anchylosis of the crico-arytenoid articidation. After discharge of an abscess, a probe can sometimes be brought into contact Avith iiecrosed cartilage. Perichondi-itis of the thyroid cartilage often produces SAvelling externally, through Avhich the denuded cartilage may be detected Avith an exploring needle. J'rognosis.—While the prognosis may be favorable in idio]iathic or primary ' Cited li_y Riihle (Die Keldkopf-kraiiklieiteii. Berlin, 1861), * Transactions of tlie Pathological Society of Pliiladelpliia, p. 148. 1874. ® Robinson, Am. .Tonr. Med. Sci., April, 187.'), p. 390. ■* Op. cit., 3d ed., vol. ii. p. 688. London, 1883. ^ Brit. Med. .Journal, Dec. 13, 1873, p. 684.