INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 19 be driven in at rigdit angles to the planes of both tables, while if it enter obliquely, there is apt to be merely a curling down, as it were, or at most a splitting off, of a small scale of the inner table; but that when the vnlnerating Fig. 823. Fig. 824. Disk of bone removed by trephining, showing punc- The same as Fig. 823, showing fracture of inner tured fracture of skull. (From a specimen in the mu- table, seum of the New York Hospital.) body is dull, such as a piece of stick, a cane-ferule, tlie corner of a brick, or a blunt-pointed nail, the fragments of the outer table and diploe are carried in, Avedging apart and extensively comminnting the inner table. There is then a difference in the conditions of tliese two varieties of pnnc- tureil wound, which ex})lains the different course pursued liy them in many instances. Penetrations of the skull, es])ecially of the vault, by peidviiife- blades, fragments of glass, etc., may divide large branches of the menin- geal artery and cause fatal hemorrhage.* It must not he thought that only pointed instruments can produce punctured fractures. Tlie essentials, both mechanical and clinical, of a punctured fracture, consist in circumscriljcd injury of the outer jiortiou of the skull, Avith extensive shattering of its inner table. Thus f luiA^e been conqielled to trephine a young man avIio liad broken his skull by a fall against the corner of a square iron nut. The injury to the outer table Avas most insignificant, Avhile the inner table Avas liroken up for a considerable extent into minute fragments, tlie number of Avhich Avould never haAm been susjiected liy the uninitiated, from an inspec- tion of the injury to tlie outer table. Sabre and hatchet cuts thus present all the essential peculiarities of punctured fractures. Depressed fractures^ involving both tables, present certain varieties of form Avhich I sliall uoav [loint out. One of the most common is that seen in the accompanying cuts from a specimen in the MUtter Museum. (Figs. 825, 826.) Here an ovoidal jiiece of bone, split into hah^es, has been diuA^en doAvn upon the brain. OAving to the longitudinal fissuring and firm impaction of the fragments in their slanting relation to one another, there must have been very marked pressure exerted upon the membranes and tlie brain; much more indeed than Avould ap[)ear at first sight jiossilile, and more than occurs in other varieties of impacted fracture. This is commonly the result of the apjilication of great force by a heavy body jiresenting a convex, rather sharp eilge, sucli as a horse-shoe, the edge of a beer mug, a dull hatchet, etc. Sometimes a form of fracture is met with, consisting of a long, single fissure, Avith marked overriding of one margin of the fractured bone. The most common variety of depressed fracture, hoAvevei', is that in Avliich a more or less ovoidal portion of bone is broken into a numlier of triangular fragments, Avith their apices directed iinvards toAArards the deepest jiortion of the depres- sion. When most of the fragments are driAxai down to about the same level, ' See Fig. 829, infra, for can illustration showing a wound of the meningeal artery by a frag- ment of glass. i