INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. 77 cates its whole structure, but is most marked about the injured spot or spots. Xext the cerebral tissue around the contusions assumes a darker hue, and becomes oedematous, swollen, and softened. Soon inflammatory eftusions take place, which reduce the brain-substance to a variously tinted, soft, pulpy, or diffluent mass, readily washing away under a gentle stream of water. The portions of brain around the softened area are altered to a less extent, appear- ing disintegrated and shreddy. Although these changes are commonly limited to the neighborhood of the original injury, the greater part of an entire hemi- sphere sometimes becomes involved, when the white substance is apt to he of a “peculiar saffron-color” (Ilewett) at the centre of intensity of the morbid process, the tissue being soft and diffluent.* A few drops or a gentle stream of water should be allowed to fall upon all suspected spots, as at times the marked disintegration undergone by the brain substance is not at first plainly perceptible. The yellow color is due to the large number of pus corpuscles and cells in a state of fatty degeneration, and possibly also to the remains of blood effused from the original injury, or more recently from the rupture of small vessels. When the inflammation is limited, an abscess may result, proliferation of tlie surrounding neuroglia forming in some cases a thickened fibrous wall; under which circumstances the malady may remain quiescent for a long time. A recent abscess consists of a rounded, irregularly-shaped cavity in the brain-substance, with walls formed of suppurating cerebral tissue, shreds of which, soaked in pus, hang into the cavity. The surrounding brain is in a state of inflammatory red softening, contiguous to which the cerebral sub- stance is oedematous, while in many cases around the area of red inflammation is a zone of yellow softening. The contained pus is thick and greenish, and sometimes has an extremely offensive odor.^ Cereliral abscess most commonly results from contusion and laceration of the In-ain-substance, but may arise from so-called simple concussion. Like collections of pus in other organs, it has a tendency to extend at its periphery, although it may burrow sinus-like in various directions. AVhen it ru})tures into one of the venti-icles, death rapidly ensues. Various cases have l)een re[)orted in Avhich the pus from cerel>ral abscesses has found its way, by ulceration througli the bones, into the nasal fossfe or ear, recovery having ensued. The amount of pus and the suddenness of its discharge have been the arguments chiefly relied upon to ju’ove the cerebral origin of these abscesses, when recovery has taken }>lace. I have no doubt myself that some of these have been really cases of circumscribed intra- meningeal accumulation, although in a few, post-mortem examination has demonstrated their cerebral origin. >Sl/mptoms of Infm-cmnlal Infl.ainmation.—The symptoms of intracranial inflammation Avill be first considered as a whole, and then an endeavor will be made to point out those special symptoms which may be of use in deter- mining which of the various intracranial structmes is chiefly diseased. My reason for treating the subject in this manner, is tliat I do not Ijelieve it to be possible to determine positively whether in one case the membranes alone are inflamed, or whether in another the brain is solely involved. The first symptom commonly noticed is headache, which may be either slight or severe, may he conflnecl to the seat of tlie blow, or may extend from that point over the whole head. Dizziness, vertigo, tinnitus aurium, flushed face and suffused eyes, coated tongue, and anorexia are commonly observed. The pupils are contracted and almormally sensitive to light, and there is in- ' This is the yellow softening already referred to on page 70. 2 Rokitansky, op. cit., p. 413.