116 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. existing eruption, commonly rapid, or from the breaking down of a gumma. The general features of these ulcers are tliat they are of rounded outline, or are annular in tigure, or serpiginous; their edges are sharply cut, their bases usually level, and the skin around them of a dusky color that has been well compared to the color of raw ham. Those due to a previous eruption are often multi- ple, and usually superficial. Those due to gummata are preceded by a hard, irregular, somewhat painful lump, covered by adherent, purplish skin, that in time softens and forms an ulcer, the base of which i)resents the well- known “ wash-leather” or cellular-membranous slough. These ulcers are apt to extend, and often expose tlie hone, and may then he associated with necrosis. They are all henehted by anti-syphilitic treatment. (2) Strumous ulcers are met Avith in scrofulous children, and may he on any part of the scalp. There are, as a rule, more than one. They are pre- ceded by a small, hard deposit in the scali>, covered with reddened skin. In time this mass indolently bi’eaks dmvn. The ulcer, Avhen fully formed, is oval or roundish, with thin, undermined, purple edges, and a foul base often covej'ed by exuberant granulations that readily Ideed. (3) Ijupus non-exedens never occurs primarily on the scalp (Ileineke*), but may spread thereto from the face, ears, or mastoid region. (4) Jlodent ulcer usually appears on the forehead. It is uncommon before 45. The ulcer formed spreads deliberately and very slowly—so slowly that it takes years to etfect an amount of destruction tljat Avould he accomplished by epithelioma in a less number of months.^ Its edges arc elevated, hard, sinuous, clean, with little adjacent induration, and none of the warty growth of epithelioma. The glands are scarcely ever affected. The bone may be exposed, and so extensively destroyed as to lay hare the dura mater.® (5) Epithelioma of the scalp is rare, and most commonly appears on the skin of the forehead or frontal region. The ulcer formed grows rapidly, has indurated, everted, and most irregular, warty edges, and often an equally irregular base. Unlike rodent ulcer, it invades the glands, and, unlike the sj-pfiilitic ulcer, it is single. AVith regard to the general prognosis of scalp ulcers, it must be remem- bered that any extensive or deep ulceration may cause death from cerebral complication, usually by inducing a thrombosis of the cerebral sinuses, or a meningitis of the convexity. The treatment of these ulcers calls for no special mention in this place. Birkett records a case^ of successful removal of a large epitheliomatous ulcer over the right temple. Holmes relates a case® in Avhicli he removed from the fronto-parietal region of a man aged 64, an e2)itheliomatous ulcer three and a quarter inches in diameter. The jiericranium was exjiosed. The man died shortly after the operation Avith cerebral symj^toms. Anthrax.—This is extremely rare in the seal}?. AVhen it does occur, it is usually met Avith in the inferior ocei2)ital region, and is due to extension from the neck. The next most usual situation is the forehead. Anthrax of the scal2> is esjiecially dangerous by its tendency to induce cerebral compli- cations. This is usually etfected by a thrombosis of the sinus, produced by an extension of iphlebitis from Avithout. This thrombosis is then apt to end in jjurulent “ phlebitis sinuum.” jS’othnagel® gives an excellent account ot 1 Heineke, loc. cit., S. 8. 2 Hutchinson, Illustrations of Clinical Society, vol. i. p. 14. 3 Erichsen (Science and Art of Surgery, 7th edit. vol. i.) gives a cut showing very extensive exposure of the dura mater in a man who had been afflicted with the disease for thirty years. ■* Trans, of Path. Soc. of London, vol. xix. p. 389. ® Ibid., vol. xxiii. p. 277. 6 Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia of the Practice of Medicine, vol. xii. 221.