INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 320 to tlia,t of the middle ear. The same remark is prohahly true of those rare cases in which an otitis media acuta develops in consequence of an attack of sunstroke or heat-prostration. Finally, direct violence may be the exciting cause of the disease. Symptoms.—In its early stages, an acute purulent inflammation of the mid- dle ear is not distinguishable, in its subjective and objective phenomena, from the acute catarrhal variety. The pain, it is true, is apt to be more severe, and a point is soon reached at which the objective appearances show clearly that the disease is to be of the purulent variety. The drum-membrane either presents a dry, red, and tense appearance, or else all the tissues at the inner end of the external auditory canal appear to be soaked, and a small quantity of free exudation may be found on the lower wall of the canal. Beneath this white coating of soaked and loosened epithelium, which can generally be removed without difliculty, there will be found the red and swollen tissues of the inflamed drum-membrane. If the swelling is moderate in degree, the posterior half will probably be found in a bulging condition, but when the swelling is more marked we must not expect to And any recog- nizable bulging of the membrana tympani. If at this time a vent is not established artificially in the membrane, the continued pressure upon its inner surface will sooner or later cause one to form, and thus afford an outlet for the pent-up secretions; for the swelling of the parts around the tympanic orifice of the Eustachian tube prevents all escape of fluids by way of this channel. In such diseases as scarlet fever, diphtheria, and smallpox, it is probable that a certain local lack of vitality, or ulcerative tendency, co-operates with the pressure in producing the perforation. Every part of the drum- memljrane is liable to become the site of such a s])ontaneously formed open- ing, but in a majority of instances the anterior inferior quadrant seems to be the favorite locality. As soon as a vent has been established, the pain usually begins to abate. The discharge continues for a variable length of time, generally from one to three Aveeks, and finally ceases. This occurrence usually takes place simultaneously Avith the healing of the perforation. The SAvelling and redness then disappear, and the hearing returns to its normal state. While the simple course Avhich I have just described, is that of the majority of cases of acute purulent inflammation of the middle ear, in not a feAv instances the disease runs a more complicated course, or even assumes a fatal form. The more important of these complications Avill be considered in the sections devoted to fractures of the temporal bone, chronic purulent inflam- mation of the middle ear, and diseases of the mastoid process. The partici- pation of the cervical and post-auricular glands in the inflammatory process is a noticeable feature in quite a large proportion of cases of acute purulent inflammation of the middle ear. This sympathetic inflammation of the glands rarely calls for special attention. In the simpler forms of acute purulent inflammation of the middle ear— and they constitute the great majority of cases—the prognosis is faA’orable, both as regards recoAmry of the sense of hearing, and as regards the eflects of the disease upon the general health. There is a Avidespread belief among non-professional persons, that a perforation in the drum-membrane, no matter hoAv established, means the destruction of the poAver of hearing. This is, happily, an error, and Ave may assure our patients Avith the greatest confidence that the mere establishment of a perforation in the membrana tympani, Avhether produced directly by disease or liy the cutting edge of the knife, exerts little or no influence prejudicial to the hearing. In the vast majority of instances the perforation heals as soon as the dischai’ge from the middle ear ceases. In fact, it often heals too soon, that is, before the swollen condi-