215 INJURIES OF THE EYEBALL. harmless than anything else. I recall three cases in which both eyes were destroyed by shot. One patient had extensive intra-ocnlar hemorrhages, fol- lowed by cataract, but never sutfered any severe pain, and the eyes 'were pre- served with a plump, health}^ appearance. The second patient I saw but once, and never heard of afterwards, while the case of the third presented some interesting features;— A boy, 12 years old, received a discharge of bird shot in the face, and was instantly blinded. The accident occurred September 29, 1881, and I saw him one week after- ‘ wards. A shot had penetrated the right eye through the ciliary region, near the inner margin of the cornea. Tn the left, another had entered through the cornea, near its edge, and had traversed the iris and lens, producing traumatic cataract. The lens was finally absorbed, leaving a clear pupil, with some vision, and perception of colors. The eye is normal in size, tension, and appearance. In the right, chronic cyclitis and atrophy of the globe followed. But this eye, even, is now quite comfortable. If a shot has entered the eye anywhere in front of the equator, the round discolored point of penetration can always be detected. (Plate XXVII., Fig. 6.) Concussion of the eye often leads to serious and permanent injury to sight. In many cases, rupture of the lens capsule is detected, and of course trau- matic cataract follows. In others, no rent in the capsule can be discovered, but cataract ensues, pi’obably from loosening of the lens from its intra-capsular connections. In other instances, no gross lesions can be discovered to account for the damaged sight. There must be some molecular disturbances in the rods and cones, but they are not appreciable by the ophthalmoscope. Sometimes hemorrhages into the vitreous are found, and not infrequently genuine ruptures of the choroid. These are usually crescentic in shape, with concavity towards the optic disk. (Plate XXVIII., Pigs. 1 and 3.) These lesions are always connected with serious damage to vision, from necessary injury to the percipient elements of the retina. The rule is tliat suppurative inflammation follows the penetration of a foreign body, whether the latter lodge in the eye or not. In rare exceptions little inflammation ensues, and in some none at all. Why this great diflerence, in apparently the same cir- cumstances ? It has usually been attributed to diflerence of individual tole- ration, due to temperament and idiosyncrasy. In the recent researches of Lebert and others, the germ theory seems to afford an explanation. By expei’iments with animals, and observations drawn from large numbers of published cases in men, he has come to the following conclusions; (1) The simple presence of a pure and chemically indifterent foreign body in the eye, excites no inflammation. (2) Aseptic foreign bodies, of metals which oxidize, do not give rise to su}>purative inflammation, but cause trouble, especially when large and in the vitreous, giving rise to detachment of the retina, etc., from chemical reactions. (3) Suppurative inflammation always follows, if the wound is infected by germs of lower organisms that rapidly multiply in the wound and around the foreign body. Suppurative inflammation can come from cliemical irritation, but if no germs are present, usually does not. (4) The suppurative inflammation, after injuries, from the growth of microbes, is caused by the chemical sul> stances eliminated liy their growth, as is the inflammation complicating cysticercus cellulosse in the eye. The chemically indiflei’ent foreign bodies, are particles of stone, glass, splinters of wood, eyelashes, gold Avire, and lead, when free from germs. In a brief note just published, Lebert adds tlie following: (1) Aseptic pieces of copper, unlike those of iron and steel, Avben lodged in the anterior