DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 271 tlie skin, and with the aid of the ring forceps (Fig. 877), to avoid bleeding. AVhen tlie Idades have been tirndj closed bj tightening the screw, and the tumor has been made to project sharply through the ring, the skin is incised over the whole length of the growth, longitudinally. A few drops Fig. 877. Ring-forceps for tumors of eyelid. of blood escape on cutting through the skin, but, this being sponged away, no further trouble from hemorrhage is experienced. The cyst is now exposed, and with a few snips of scissors carefully detached from the other tissues, except- ing underneath. An assistant then draws the skin aside Avitli forceps, Avhen the cyst is seized, raised from its bed, and detached from the parts below. Care should always be taken to remove as little of the surrounding structures of the lid as possible, and to avoid cutting a hole through the conjunctiva. A small opening in the conjunctiva does no harm, hut it should 1)e lett entire, if possible. When the cyst and its contentsyire removed, the wound is closed Avith one or at most two stitches in the skin. It heals by first inten- tion, and all traces are gone in a tcAV days. This little operation, Avhen neatly done, is very satisfactory; but Avhen aAvkwardly executed, insufficiency of the lid, notching of its mai’gin, and sad deformity may result. Thei’e is no use in cauterizing these tumors, or rubbing them Avith salves, or taking constitu- tional remedies to remove them. Such measures do not succeed, Avorry the ])atient, and must yield at last to ju’oper surgical treatment. Tonies, es[)e- cially iron and bitter remedies, may be useful in promoting a better assimila- tion, and preventing the occurrence of ucav groAvths. Sebaceous tumors, either congenital or acquired, sometimes form under the skin, about the edge of the orbit. Thej' may reach a large size, and some- times contain liairs. Where such a growth i)resses upon the hone, it de- velops a })it, and is usually firmly adherent to the periosteum, making com- plete removal difficult. Rules for the direction of incisions for their remoAffi, and other })recautions, have already been given. They usually bleed freely, and, Avhen the cyst is cut, as it is apt to he, the operation may become very troublesome. If any portion of the sac is left, the tumor is sure to be re- produced. After adequate stitching, a compress is put over the pit that is left behind, and a roller is a})plied to prevent hemorrhage and subsequent sup- puration. Lauophtiialmus.—The name lagophthalmus^ or hare's-eye^ is based on a romantic notion that the timid animal after Avhich it is called sleeps Avith its eyes open. Lagophthalmus is generally due to paralysis of the facial nerve and the muscles Avhich it svqiplics, but aometimes results from cicatrices of various kinds and degrees, and rarely from congenital defects. Great dis- tress and serious danger to the integrity of the eye always result from para- lysis of the orbicularis muscle. Constant Aveeping during Avakeful hours, and dryness from ex[iosure in sleep, keep the eye ahvays irritable, and ready to take on destructiAm inflammation. The necessity for the constant, healthy action of the sphincter of the eyelids and of Horner’s muscle, shows itself in defective function of the sewer system of the eye. Epiphora^ or overflow