1 79*2 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. Even successful resuscitation does not always insure permanent recovery; for cases are on record in which death has taken place suddenly, several hours after restoration of normal respiration, and without having left sufficient trace of its cause for detection on post-mortem examination. Treatment.—The treatment of apnoea must be prompt. Allowance being made for special conditions and circumstances, it may be summed up in efforts to remove the cause, and to ai’ouse the respiratory centres. Apnoea of the new-born, resisting flagellations, is usually treated by mouth to mouth insuf- flation, by insufflation through a catheter or other tube passed into the larynx through the mouth, or by means of a tube passed through an external incision made in the air-passage. In insufflations of this kind, care is requisite not to use force sufficient to rupture the aii’-cells. Apnoea by hemorrhage requires transfusion; and the same measure may be required in poisoning by mephitic gases, such as carbonic oxide. In ordinary cases of apnoea from di’owning and choking, the mouth and nostrils are to be cleansed from occlud- ing matters, all constricting bands are to be promptly loosened, abundant supply of air is to be secured—if necessary by opening the larynx or trachea— and the patient is to be placed in such a position as will best favor respiration. The cause of the apnoea having been removed, attempts are to be made to rouse the respiratory centre by holding ammonia near the nostrils, and by cold and wmt flagellations of the cheeks and chest. Should opportunity be pre- sented, efforts may he made to excite movements of the diaphragm by electri- zation of the phrenic nerve, one electrode from a powerful induction-coil being placed over the course of the nerve in the neck, and the other electrode being applied at the epigastrium. In absence of prompt response to these measures, resort is to be had to artificial respiration.^ 2 See Vol. I. pp. 514-516. J