61 INJUKIES OE THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. 1 Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 007. of extravasation in the remainder of the septum, and in the back part of the fornix. Ko other brain laceration was found, although blood was poured out in small quantity into the arachnoid sac and pia mater at several points. I am thus particular in quoting cases—to which I shall presently add others— because they demonstrate how readily serious injury to the brain may be over- looked, unless the most minute and skilful sectio cadaveris be performed, and how the error of “ concussion without cerebral injury” may be thus perpetu- ated. The oidy injuries in the cerebral mass Avhich could be detected in an- other case, were a minute extravasation of blood in the edge of the fornix, a second upon its under surface, and “ several specks” upon the surface of the thalamus. In addition, there were extravasations into tlie pia mater, over the posterior lobes of tlie cerebrum and the back part of the cerebellum. In still another case, an extravasation of the size of a nut Avas detected in the right centrum ovale, close to the corpus callosum. This coexisted Avith several thin layers of extravasated blood in the arachnoid sac. Finally, I Avould call attention to tlie post-mortem appearances presented in a fourth case, as illustrative of hoAV serious the results of an apparently trivial lesion may be. Sir Prescott HeAvett states that there is, in the mnseum of St. George’s Hospital, a specimen in AAdiich the ventricle Avas filled AA-ith blood from"fhe laceration of a large vein, produced liy a slight rent in the septum lucidum, Avhich also involved the floor of the left lateral ventricle. In the disseminated form of cerebral contusion, tlie foci of extravasated blood, instead of being grouped together, are Avidely ditfused throughout the brain, involving not only the surface but the deeper portions of the organ. In rare instances, the deeper parts may be alone involved. The ditfused form of contusion of the brain is a A-ery rare affection, and one not easy of detection, being doubtless often passed by for Avant of a careful scrutiny of the parts. Iliffused contusion of the brain presents itself in the form of minute foci of extravasated blood scattered through tlie cerebral substance. The size of the extravasations varies from that of the smallest pin-point to that of a split-})ea. IVhen of the latter size, the condition Avill hardly be overlooked, but Avith the minute variety, the spots are apt to be mistakeii for the orifices of cerebral vessels. The tAvo conditions can be readily ditferentiated by remembering tliat if the appearances are due to the gaping orifices of divided A^essels, the specks can be readily Aviped uAvay, the spots reappearing if gentle pressure be made upon the brain. Miliary extravasations cannot be Aviped aAvay, and Avdieii picked out Avith the knife-})oint leave little depressions in the brain- substance. If examined Avithin a short time after the injury, the brain-sub- stance is normal in appearance around the extravasations, but Avhen AueAved some days after the accident, little greenish-yelloAv lialoes Avill be seen around each spot; in other Avords, the appearances are those presented by a bruise of any other tissue. Although there are usually numerous miliary extravasations, in some instances thei’C may be so feAv that only a s}»eck here and there can lie detected after most careful search. In one recorded case, tliree very small cxtraAuxsa- tions Avere found in the left anterior lolie, a fourth small one in the fornix, and a fifth in the right lobe of the cerebellum. There Avere a fcAV minute extravasations into the arachnoid and pia mater, but no fracture of the skull existed.1 I hope that I have made it sufficiently clear that, Avhetlier circum- scribed or disseminated, these extravasations are not the lesions of concussion, but of contusion of the brain. AThen diffused, they are the result of the sudden removal of pressure from tlie previously distended perivascular lymph-sheaths, tensely filled by the impulse inqiressed on the cerebro-spinal