956 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. are eneapsulecl, and have no connection with tlie surrounding oi’gans. Their connection is sometimes with the back of the abdomen, where they fill the hollow on each side of the lumbar spine, and pass upwards and downwards from these localities. They have no special symptoms. "When of large size, and causing thereby trouble or danger, an attempt should be made to remove them by laparotomy. Gastric Fistulje. Gastric fistulse include fistulse of the stomach opening into other hollow viscera, as well as those which open externally, and which, therefore, may properly be called gastro-cutaneous. Tliey may be divided into those Avhich are the result of mechanical injury, and those which arise from disease. There are at least four kinds of me- chanical injury which are known to have produced the external fistulfe, to which we- here specially refer; 1, Incised, punctured, or lacerated wounds of the abdomen, penetrating the stomach. 2, Gunshot wounds, the shot either directly penetrating the stomach, and at once giving rise to the fistulous open- ing—as in the celebrated case of Alexis St. INIartin, whose accident occurred in June, 1822, and who was known to be still alive and well, but with his fistula still unclosed, in 1873—or the fistula being subsequently established by the sloughing of the part of tlie wall of the stomach in contact with the wounded parietes, as in the ease of Maillot, reported by Baron Percj’,^ and as in three cases recorded in the History of the War of the Rebellion,^ in which the fistula followed the wound at periods varying from two to seven iveeks. 3, A blow over the stomach, which, by causing an abscess in the parietes, has led to adhesion of the stomach, and in time—varying from a few weeks to several months—to a fistulous opening, the abscess-walls giving way both into the stomach and externally. 4, Ulceration from external pressure, as in the celebrated, self-inflicted fistula of Catherine Eoss.^ Though there are cases on record of knives and other foreign bodies, which, having been swallowed, have escaped, by forming abscesses, through the abdominal walls, it appears that the opening rarely becomes fistulous ; and probably the wound in the stomach heals in some of the cases before the abscess opens externally. In one case,^ however, the prong of an iron comb set up ulceration from within, and led to a gastric fistula. Of the diseases which cause gastric fistula, only two are known, namely, cancer, and simple perforating ulcer of the stomach, either of which may give rise to it; (1) b}^ gradual and continuous extension of the ulcerative process through the part of the abdominal parietes to which the affected portion of the stomach has become adherent; or (2) b}^ first exciting around the ulcerated area a circumscribed abscess, which ultimately discharges its contents through the abdominal wall. The latter is, perhaps, the commoner mode; and as abscesses in the liver and in the abdominal parietes sometimes break into the stomach, it has been thought possible that some of the cases which have been described as simple gastric ulceration, may have originated in abscesses, which have opened externally as well as into the stomach. Fis- tulie from disease are rarely seen in men, but nearly always in women. Ac- cording to Murchison, gastro-cutaneous fistuhe are twice as frequently the 1 Journal de Medecine, t. iii. X’* -’lit'- 1S02. 2 Op. cit., Part II., Surg. Vol. i^x). 52-.53. * Reported by Dr. C. Mnrcliison, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xli. p. 11. ‘ Med. and Surg. Hist, of War of Rebellion, Part II., Surg. Vol. p. 53.