MOTOR DISTURBANCES OF THE INTRINSIC LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. 785 incompleteness of the ellipse posteriorly, and by the appearance of a second ellipse, or rather a hemi-ellipse, behind the unapproximated vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilage (Fig. 1107). Fig. 1105. Fig. 1106. Fig. 1107. Bilateral paralysis of thyro*ary- Paralysis of right tliyro-arytenoid. Bilateral paralysis of the thyro- tenoids in acute laryngitis. (Ziems- (Ziemssen.) arytenoids, with paralysis or pa- : sen.) resis of the arytenoid muscle. (Ziemssen ) The impairment of phonatory power is manifested chietiy in modulation; hut if sufficient etfort be made, the voice can usually be held. Its quality is unpleasant under either condition ; and vocal etfort is fatiguing or even pain- ful. In bilateral paralysis associated with paralysis of the arytenoid muscle, there is dysphonia or aphonia as the case may be. Paralysis of the lateral crico-arytenoids, usually associated xoith parcdysis of the arytenoid and of the thyro-arytenoid muscles, when of organic origin, is shown by immobility of the vocal band at the extreme limit of its outward excursion. (Figs. 1099,1101, pp. 782, 783.) On the side involved, the glottis is opened to its widest extent. The pai’alj'zed vocal baud fails to advance to the phonatory line in attempted phonation, lint the non-paralyzed band will cross the middle line, so that its arytenoid cartilage will stand in front of tlie other one (Fig. 1102, p. 783), and the lost tension of the thyro-arytenoid may permit the paralyzed vocal band to be bowed upward in the expiratory current. There is aphonia, or at most an exhalatory substitute for voice, hardly phonal in a proper sense. Paralysis of functional origin, sometimes disassociated from paralysis of the arytenoid and tbyro-arytenoid muscles, is indicated by its almost unexceptionally bilateral manifestation; the vocal bands remaining very nearly in the res[)iratoiy position, with failure of approxi- mation in attenijits at phonation, although a weak, incomplete advance, or advance and immediate retreat, is observed in some instances, as though tlie patient “ could not will” to bring the bands together. Approximation of the bands with resultant sound may take place in movements of sneezing, coughing, and laughing. There is no voice, or there is dysphonia with intermittent aphonia. The patient speaks in a laryngeal whis]>er, with “a plionative waste of lireath.” (Ziemssen.) In complete paralysis there is abso- lute aphonia, cough is aphonic and weak, and there is no power to make the explosive “ hem.” Paralysis of the au'ytenoid, xnuscle {central abductor, Mackenzie) is recognized by failure in closure of so much of the glottis {intex’cartilayinous ylottis of some authors) as lies behind the anterior extremities of the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages. The voice is inipaired, and is marked by a perceptible ex])iratory current of unused air, whicli makes talking fatiguing. Paralysis of all the filaments in the domain of the recurrent nerve, adductor and abductor—paralysis of the recurrent—is recognized by immolulity of the VOL. V.—50