INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. BY E. WILLIAMS, M.D., PROFESSOR OF OPHTHALMOLOGY IN MIAMI MEDICAL COLLEGE, CINCINNATI. Among the five special senses, royal importance has, at all times, been con- ceded to sight. The value of the eye, in the animal economy, has drawn to its diseases a never-flagging interest. As we approach this mystic temple to inquire into divine secrets, let us Avalk lightly, tor we are treading on holy ground. Shut off the light of the eye, Avhich is the cheer of the soul, and the Idackness of darkness rushes in to overwhelm the stoutest heart. Had not the “ drop serene ” (pienchcd the orbs of Milton, his ecstatic invocation to Light could never have been conceived. It is said of Shakespeare that Avhen he Avrote he dipped his pen in his own heart. That is the main secret of his immortality. The truly scientific spirit is ever humble, supremely desiring to knoAv and to tell the truth. In entering on our favorite study, shall Ave not bring to bear upon it an earnest and honest intelligence ? To this end a brief outline of the structures composing tlie organ Avhose injuries and diseases we are to investigate, must inaugurate our Avork. In the pinch- ing interests of l>revity Ave must assume that the reader has an adequate knoAvledge of the anatomy and physiology of the eye, Avhich needs only to be refreshed. Fir.st in the order of solid importance, let us take up the cavity in Avhich the eye is securely lodged, and successfully discharges its functions. Anatoaiy of the Eye. The Bony Orbits.—Tliese are holloAv pyramids, Avith liases presenting for- Avards and outAvards, and apices backwards and iinvards. The axes of the two cavities intersect over the sella turcica. This diA^ergence of the orbits atfords a larger field of vision and greater circumspection. The most firm and resisting part is tlie bony ring that forms its base. The prominence of these bony guards, with tlie nose between them, protects the eyes from the disastrous force of injuries. The upper Avail, slightly arched, is formed by the frontal and sphenoid bones, and sup})orts the anterior lobe of the biain. In its rniildle, the orbital plate is very thin, and liable to be fatally pierced liy direct thrusts from oeloAv. I recall the case of a man, brought to the hospital Avith- out history, and delirious, and Avho soon died. The end of a small knife-blade was found broken off in this [>late, penetrating and causing abscess of the brain. On this Avail are found the optic foramen, the pit for lodging the lachrymal gland, a little depression for the trochlea, and a supra-orbital foramen or notch. The inner Avail, furnished mainly by the ethmoid, is smooth and parallel Avith ( )