DISEASES OF THE IRIS. 237 eye from permanent lesions and their consequences, immediate and remote. The chief object in the use of local remedies is to relieve sufferino; and dilate the pupil fully, so as to prevent adhesions and false membranes. The mydria- tics must be used promptly and heroically, from beginning to end of the treat- ment. If the pupil can be dilated, and kept so, thus jireventing adhesions— or, in case they have already formed, if they can be detached and kept from reforming—a great point is gained for the integrity of the eye. The cheapest and best substance of this class is the sulphate of atropia. It may be used for adults in a four-grain solution, dropped freely into the eye every three or four hours, or every hour at the start, till the pupil is freely dilated. The only danger from its free use is constitutional disturbance. If prevented from entering the puncta and running down the throat, there is little risk. This is done by drawing the lower lid a little from the eye, and holding it a few minutes after each application. A cloth over the end of the linger is then pressed into the corner to remove what remains of the atropia solu- tion. The frequency of application should depend on the pain and the resist- ance of the pupil. As soon as the latter yields largely, the use of the atropia may be less frequent, but enough to keep up full dilatation. The pain is much relieved, and the relaxing inlluence of the atropine has- tened, by leeching. Tour leeches may be applied to the temple, or side of the nose, at once. Then, as fast as one is hlled and falls away, another may he applied, till six, eight, or ten have bitten. The bleeding is encouraged by warm fomentations. The leecli should never be allowed to bite on the loose skin of the lids. Of course the eyeball must be guarded with great care. I prefer the natural leech to the artificial, or to the ordinary wet cupping. Still, Ileurteloup’s artificial leech, ap})lied to the temple, does well.* Local depletion is not generally necessary, but expedites the cure, when used. Cold water applications are not beneficial. Warm fomentations, or the persistent use of warm poultices, in the obstinate cases, ]particularly if there is a glaucomatous tendency, are often of great benefit. Of course, purgatives in the beginning, and at times afterwards, with free anodynes at night to allay pain and promote sleep, are valuable antiphlogistics. In cases of patients harassed l)y great pain, with resistance of the piqpil to the action of leeches and atropine, I have often given immediate relief by a paracentesis. If preferred, a sub- cutaneous injection of morphia may serve the same purpose, but it has not as much control over the progress of the disease. I often anticipate the use of leeches by the paracentesis. In the serous variety, atropine must be used less freely, and with more watchfulness, omitting it at once, and resorting to eserine, if increased tension is discovered. In such emergencies, the protracted use of warm poultices, often renewed, does great good. If the glaucoma resists all these, a paracentesis should be tried, and then, if need be, an iridectomy. Do not let this fatal condition run on very long. If the atropine disagrees or proves insufficient, a four-grain solution of duboisia is still more powerful, but more care is needed to watch against its general effects. Constitutional treatment is directed especially to the diathesis found to exist. In the rheumatic, salicylate of sodium, the subcutaneous use of pilocax’pine, and other numerous and vaunted remedies for rheumatism may be tried. Great attention to the stomach, kidneys, and cutaneous function, with careful avoidance of exposure to cold, is recpiired. If the syphilitic virus is present, mercury, by inunctions, inwardly, or by batlis, is indispensable. Following this, or from the start, if the patient is deteriorated in blood and strength, the iodide of potassium is an invaluable remedy. Some form of general See Vol. I. page 507, Fig. 81.