HERNIA. ‘1162 spica bandage above all. If the discbarge does not soak tbrougb, the dress- ing may be left for three days, when, if primary union has occurred, as is most likely, the stitches may be removed and the drainage-tube cleansed and reapplied, shortened by about half an inch. In another three days the dressing should be changed, and the wire removed, the tube, again shortened, beina: kept in till the next dressing in three or four days moi-e. The tube will then generally require removal. I have operated for the radical cure of crural hernia by the wire operation, directly after the operation of herniotomy for strangulation, in four cases, all in women. In the first two the spray was not used, but all the other antiseptic precautions were employed. In the last two, the spray and Lister’s dressing were used. All the patients recovered without a liad symptom, each having a good, firm, resisting cicatrix; no return of the rupture has occurred, as far as known, up to the present time. 1. H. S., aged 50, a woman, bedridden from paralysis, witli a clironic cough which caused the Ijowel to come down under the truss, when it often became strangulated. Left crural hernia; a large part of the tumor was irreducible. The truss gave her much pain and trouble, from slipping down and causing excoriations, of which the marks w'ere very visible. Strangulation synqitoms severe for thii'ty-six hours. Operated on October 28, 1879. A considerable portion of omentum, ecchymosed and congested, was removed after being tied m sections with thin catgut. The sac was then tied and removed, the ligature (of stronger catgut) being made to lay hold of the stump of the omentum. Stitches, drain'age-tube, and dressing of carbolized lint, covered with a large pad of carbolized tow, and secured by a spica bandage. She made a good and rapid recovery ; never wore a truss, and, when last heard of, was more comfortable than she had been since she had had tlie hernia. 2. A. S. II., aged 35. Strangulated left crural rupture; for forty-eight hours, vomiting of fecal matter; herniotomy operation. May 9, 1879. Patient liad bronchitis at the time of operation ; sac removed, and operation done without spray; good recovery. Discharged June 8 ; wore no truss after a few months ; seen December 5, 1880, one year and tliree-quarters after operation, quite well. 3. F. D., aged 30. Right crural strangulation for twenty-four hours; severe ])ain and vomiting ; herniotomy under spray, September 28, 1880; no omentum; bowel chocolate-colored ; sac removed after ligature by catgut wires applied as above; no sym[)toms afterwards. Discharged cured, October 15 ; seen in January, 1881, quite well. 4. E. O. N., aged 56. Right crural strangulated hernia, irreducible omentum. Strangulation forty-eight hours; bowel chocolate-color; omentum adherent. Omen- tum removed with sac; operation with wires as above. May 26, 1881. Discharged cured, June 21, 1881. Heard of afterwards as quite well. We should no doubt be prepared to ex^tect a higlier rate of mortality in this operation than in that u[)on unstrangulated hernite. Very much will de})end upon the care and judgment of the surgeon as to the condition of the bowel and omentum, before venturing to return them into the abdomen, and upon his choice of cases in which sti-angulation is recent. AVith due caution we may expect confidently that no higher mte of mortality than is met with in oi’dinary crural herniotomy, will be experienced. And if so, it certainly seems to be a shortcoming in surgery not to take advantage of the open wound, to cure, if possible, the hernia, by the same operation as that which is necessai’y to relieve strangulation. It is well known that by not doing so, the hernia is left to l)eeome"larger and more troublesome to retain, because of the crural ring being cut so as to be more open and unprotected than before the operation. To be successlul, as a rule, cases must be ojierated on as soon as possible after a fair trial of the taxis, aided by inversion and ames-