INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1048 suppuration has already set in. The presence of a large proportion of secondary cysts cannot with certainty be foretold; hut perhaps the rapid growth of the tumor, pain whilst the tumor is yet small, and absence of Euctuation and thrill, are the most suggestive symptoms of this condition. If, on tapping, the quantity of liquid whicli escapes is much less than the size of the cyst would lead one to expect, the inference is that the daughter- Cases of Hydatid Tumor of Liver Treated Yeai-. 1870 Name. E. C. Age. 29 Married Sex. 01- single. F. -Mai-r’d History. State on admission. Multiple hydatids of peritoneum. 1871 C. M. 1871 T. C. 45 29 M. M. Single Marr’d Till 1857 enjoyed good health ; he then first dis- covered a tumor over the liver. Two years ago he noticed another tumor over umbilical region ; no pain in either tumor. Multiple hydatids of liver and omen- tum. Hydatids of liver; hepatic dulness measured 9^ inches. 1874 E. J. 29 F. Marr’d Admitted with all the signs of pleuri.sy with effusion on the right side ; the : liver enlarged and pushed downwards. I Subsequently pleuritic friction was heard on the right side, and the liver j dulness extended. Vomiting and pain ; in abdomen followed. Shortly after j this a visible bulging was noticed over liver. The liver dulness increased in every direction. 1875 1876 1877 A. H. C. T. J. M. 23 49 35 F. F. M. Single Marr’d Single Patient has had a dull pain in region of umbilicus for 6 weeks. Her attention was called to it by a swelling in that region four days ago. 7 years ago, when stooping, felt sudden pain in abdo- men. She afterwards no- ticed a lump the size of a hen’s egg. 5 years ago the tumor was tapped ; 6 months ago the swelling began to enlarge again. Patient has had pain in the right side for 3 years. There was bulging in the right mid-axillary line. At Royal Hospital, City Road, a small puncture was made and some pur- ulent fluid withdrawn ; subsequently paracente- sis was performed in 8th space, and some fluid containing cyst-walls re- moved. Hydatid of liver. Suppurating and dis- charging at umbilicus. A prominence seen in the left epigas- tric region, corresponding to the left lobe of the liver. The swelling was smooth and elastic; dull on percus- sion.