632 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. Oedema of the larynx sometimes follows incised wounds, especially those in which the upper portion of the larynx has been uncovered by division of the hyo-thyroid membrane. The action of the atmospheric pressure in rolling the oedematous aryteno-epiglottic folds inward and downward at each inspiration, is beautifully demonstrated in these instances, confirming Sestier’s antelaryngoscopic theory of the mechanism in some cases of suffocation in oedema of the larjmx. Emphysema occurs in some cases of incised wound, especially when the wound in the integument does not open directly upon the wound in the air- passage. This emphysema may spread not only over the neck, face, and thorax, as is not infrequent, but likewise over the entire abdomen, down into the scrotum, or even into the mediastina or into the interior of the larynx.^ It is most likely to occur in cases where the surgeon has been too assiduous in approximating the edges of the external wound. Incised wounds of the trachea are due to causes similar to those of incised wounds of the larynx. They usually occupy the upper portion of the tube. They are often associated with wounds of the thyroid gland. They are liable to serious complication by suction in of the soft parts, so as to occlude the air-passage and threaten suffocation. Durham^ refers to a fatal case of this kind related by Casper, and to a case narrated by Richet, in which the oeso- phagus projected forward and became interposed between the cut ends of the divided trachea. The wound usually implicates the anterior or cartilaginous portion of the trachea only, and occupies one or more rings, passing obliquely from left to right. Sometimes the tube is divided in its entire extent, exposing the intact or wounded oesophagus, as may be ; and then the lower end may become greatly retracted—so much so, if the wound be low down, as to become almost hidden at each inspiration. Durham^ cites a case from Richet,^ in which the trachea had been divided obliquely through four or five of its rings, the separation between the two portions measuring more than two inches, with an increase of about half an inch additional during inspiration, and the lower part plunging down almost into the mediastinum. The oesophagus is very liable to suffer injury in case of complete division of the trachea. Hemorrhage is often quite copious from incised wounds of the trachea, especially if the thyroid veins or the thyroid gland have been wounded. The danger from entrance of the blood into the air-passage is greater than in similar wounds of the larynx. The laryngeal nerves are sometimes wounded (Larrey), but as a rule neither nerves nor great bloodvessels are injured, even though the sterno-mastoid be severed and the carotid artery exposed. Emphysema occurs as in incised wounds of the larynx, and much more frequently because of the small size of the wound and the corresponding difficulty in the escape of the air. Lacerated woundsofthe laryyix^oiher than gunshot,are very infrequent. They result from falls, kicks, blows from falling objects, and crushing violence by machinery and otherwise. They are almost always accidental. Tliey are sometimes associated with wounds of the pharynx, as in the case of a tall on broken crockery, which recovered under the care of Mr. Bryant.® Sometimes they are associated with comminuted fracture. They may be accompanied by laceration of the trachea, as in an injury from the kick of a horse, where abrupture extended through the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and continu- ously through the first tracheal nng.® > Horteloup, op. cit., pp. 53, 71 ; Durham, op. cit., vol. i. p. 688. 2 Op. cit. ® Dp. cit. * Gaz. des Hop. 1855, p. 35. 5 Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 26, 1884, p. 164. 6 O’Brien, Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. xviii. ; quoted by Ryland and others.