FRACTURES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 655 traclieotorny tube, the effused matters failing utterly to undergo absorption under any treatment. In chronic oedema, tracheotomy can do little more, in many cases, than put the larynx at rest for a time. In many instances it but adds additional irritation to the evils already in existence. It does not facilitate the cure of the affection. In case of threatening suffocation, it is demanded as in similar conditions under other circumstances. Scarification, followed by topical applications of strong astringents, such as solutions of nitrate of silver, chloride of gold, chloride of zinc, and sulphate of copper, sometimes reduces the tumefaction for a time. Sedative inhalations relieve the local distress. Blisters and other counter-irritants are rarely efficacious, and are sometimes injurious. These cases, as a rule, are hopeless. Fractures of the Larynx and Trachea. Fracture of the Larynx.—^Fractures of the laiynx are not frequent. They are commonly the result of great violence. They are usually associated with a wound of tlie integument, but the reverse occasionally occurs.^ Sometimes tliey are associated with fractures of the hyoid bone, and occasi- onally with fractures of the lower jaw and of the extremities.^ There may be a single fracture, or several fractures. Multiple fracture of the cricoid cartilage is rare.^ Ossification of the cartilages is assigned as the chief cause of multiple fracture. The fracture may be complete or incomplete. It may be simple, compound, complicated, or comminuted. But little Avas knoAvn of fracture of the lai'ynx before the eighteenth century. The earliest record is usually attributed to Morgagni,'* and among the earlier cases may be mentioned those of Valsalva (1708), Weiss (1745), Colombo, and Blink (1775),® The suljject has been particularly studied or discussed by Malgaigne,® by Cavasse,^ by Gurlt,® by Hunt,® by Fredet,’® by Ileiioque”—Avho sums up tbe conclusions of the writers referred to, and otliers with them—and by Caterinopoulos.*® Usually the fracture is limited to the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. I know of no positive record of fracture of an arytenoid cartilage, save an undefined “ articular fracture” of the right arytenoid in a case cited l>y Cavasse. The arytenoid cartilages, moving so freely on the cricoid, are much more apt to suffer luxation. In extensive injuries, indeed, such a lux- ation is not infrequent, and is often a serious element of danger, lii many cases both the thyroid and the cricoid cartilages are fractured. The thyroid suffers much more frequently than the cricoid when but one cartilage is broken. In 52 cases collected by Ilenoque, the thyroid alone Avas fractured in 23, the cricoid alone in 7, and both cartilages iii 7. Durham*® adds seven- teen cases, four of Avhich arc personal, to the fifty-tAvo collected by Ilenoque, ' Macler, Union Meil., 1804, p. 142. 2 Pell, Lancet, Oct. 21, 1871, p. 571. ® Treiilicli’s case, infra. ■< Op. cit., epist. xxix. ® Masucci, Arch. Ital. di Lar., Anno i., 1881-2, p. 110. ^ Trait(S des fractures et des luxations, tome i. Paris, 1847. Essai sur les fractures traumatiques des cartilages du larynx. Thfcse de Paris, 1850. 8 llandbuch der Lehre von den Knochenbriichen, Theil. 11; Lief. i. llamm, 1804. 8 Am. Jour. Med. Sciences, April, 1800, p. 378. Oaz. des Hop., 1808, Nos. ‘JO, 91 ; (Juelques considerations sur les fractures traumatiques du larynx. Paris, 1808. *' Oaz. Ilebdomadaire, 25 Sept., 2 Oct., 1868. Etude sur les fractures des cartilages du larynx, et leur traitement par la thyrotomie imm6- diate. These de Paris, 1879. Op. cit., 3d edit., vol. i. 749.