INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 720 that section of the cricoid cartilage, the main feature of the operation, seriously impairs the stability of the larynx; but the freedom with which this carti- lage has been divided of late years, without any published evidence of perma- nent injury sustained thereby, appears to demand a reconsideration of opinion upon tins point. This operation is not to be selected when a tube is to be worn for any length of time, as necrosis may ensue from pressure. Two fatal cases of necrosis of this cartilage have come under Durhanrs observation.^ The incision into the air-passage passes through the crico-thyroid mem- brane, the cricoid cartilage, the crico-tracheal nunnhi’ane, and one or more rings of the trachea. The primary incision through the integuments is made a little higher up than for tracheotomy, commencing at the lower portion of the thyroid cartilage. The incision into the air-passage should be made from below upward to avoid wounding the isthmus of the th^u’oid gland. Even when the operation is an extension of an insufficient laryngotomy, it is better to cut from below upward into the first incision, than to extend the latter downward. Tub Tracheal Canula.—In many cases, an artificial aperture into the air- passage must be kept open. The edges of the incision would soon unite were not some contidvance introduced to prevent this. A tube keeps the edges asunder, and permits ingress and egress of air for respiration. As mucus and other products might accumulate in sufficient quantity to clog the tube, it is customary to employ two tubes, as suggested by George Martin,^ one fitting closely within the other, and projecting a little beyond it. (Fig. 1065.) Fig. 1065. Fig. 1066. Trousseau’s double tracheotomy tube. Cohen’s tracheotomy tube, with hollow conductor. Should clogging occur, the inner tube is removed without disturbing the tissues at all, and is replaced when cleansed. The outer tube is made movable in a collar secured to the neck by tapes, and in this way it follows the move- ments of the neck with very little restriction. To facilitate the introduction ' Op. cit., vol. i. p. 773. 2 Van Swieten’s Coniinentaries, vol. si. p. 528; Philosophical Transactions, 1737.