650 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. and in cases where defective drainage seemed to be its cause. He adds that in every case that has come under his notice, ample opportunity of acquiring septicfemia has been present. Exposure to cold and moisture appears to be the usual exciting cause, in idiopathic and deuteropathic oedema, whatever the predisposing cause. Acute oedema from disease is exceedingly infrequent in ehildhood. Out of a total of 245 cases, Sestier^ reports five under five years of age, one being in a new-born infant, and twelve cases between five and fifteen years. It is much more frequent in men than in women; simply, probably, because of their greater exposure to atmosphei’ic changes. Of 187 cases in adults, in Sestier’s lists, but 56 occurred in women. It is more frequent in intemperate individuals than in the temperate. Predis- position seems to exist in some individuals, for cases of recurrence have been recorded.^ Qlldema occurs traumatically from severe intra-laryngeal or perilar^uigeal cauterization, and from attempts at removing morbid groivths—the epiglottis and aryteno-epiglottic fold, or a supra-arytenoid cartilage, being seized and contused between the blades of forceps. Symptoms.—Acute mdema of the larynx occurs so suddenly at times that the subject perishes without any premonitory symptoms whatever. Van Swieten^ mentions a death with sudden change of voice, while dining. Morgagni^ mentions a similar case, in a physician, who suddenly became hoarse, and died at once. Porter® knew of two young men found dead from oedema in the morning, without any complaint having been made by them the night previous. Ruehle® mentions a young man with swollen tonsils and overheated by dancing, found dead in the morning from oedema which had suffocated him without awakening him; and likewise the case of a servant girl, slightly hoarse, who went out lightly clad in the morning, and was suf- focated while going up stairs on her I’eturn. Sometimes the manifestations are so sudden and intractable that even in a hospital tlie patient perishes before aid can reach him. Roger,*^ while an interne at Hotel-Dieu, was summoned to an attendant in an adjoining ward, who died of sudden suffocation before he could be reached; and yet there had been no complaint save of a sore throat, so slight as not to interrupt the man’s work in the hospital. These instances of sudden death certainly seem to indicate a sudden occlusion of the glottis from spasm of its constrictors, or from paralysis of its dilators, rather than a mechanical death from serous effusion. It is quite probable that the mdematous condition may have existed for some hours or days undetected and unsuspected, and that some sudden inspiration of dust, or of saliva, has pi’oduced an immediately fatal spasm. Deuteropathic oedema of tlie larynx may be preceded by pyrexia. In some instances discomfort in the larynx, and a disposition to cough, may exist for two or three days. Much more frequently the symptoms are sudden, marked, and rapidly progressive in severity. They are local tenderness—sometimes amounting to intense pain in acute cases—with hot and dry throat, and a sense of constriction or obstruction within it. Inspiratory stridor now en- snes, sometimes sonorous or sibilant, and this rapidly increases until suttbca- tive apnoea seems impending. Cough occui’s in the form of voluntary efforts 1 Op. cit. ^ See particularly case of Roberts, infra. ® Cited by Ruehle, Die Keblkopf-Kraiikheiteu, S. 158. Berlin, 1861. ^ De Sed. et Caus. Morboruni, Epist. xxii. ; cited by Bayle. ® Surgical Pathology of Larynx and Trachea, p. 82. London, 1837. ® Cited in my work already quoted, p. 447. 7 Diet, de M6d., t. xvii. j). .575.