417 PARASITES OF THE NASAL CAVITY. diagnosis has been established by ocular demonstration, and the possibility of the occurrence thus shown. Tbiedemanif has collected proof of the existence within the nose of centipedes (Scolopendra3), ear-wigs (Forticula auricularia), and the larvte of the bacon-beetle (Dermestes lardarius). The occasional presence of the Ascaris lumbricoides has already been alluded to. Urbanck reports such an instance f Packard, one of the accidental entrance of a centipede into the nostril f and Buchanan, a case of the deposition of the ova of the fly in the nasal fossie.^ Leeches have been known to effect an entrance, and to have been dislodged with great difficulty, from these cavities. The larvfe of the dipterous insects, also, are of even more frecpient occurrence. CocpiereP reports five cases in which these larva;, lodged i n the fron- tal sinuses and nasal passages, produced violent symptoms, which in three of the cases were followed by death. In most of them, several hundred larvie were evacuated by ulceration and necrosis of parts investing the cavities. Coquerel also quotes in his article several analogous eases from authors who had observed similar occurrences in Europe. Cloquet® reports a somewhat similar case. An excellent summary of our present information on the subject is given by Fraenkel. Attracted by the odor emanating from an ozfena, flies are found (Musca vomitoria and Musca carnaria) which deposit their eggs in the vicin- ity of the nostrils, the young being nourished, when hatched, by the decom- posing organic matters. INIaggots likewise are occasionally seen in cases of ozasna, as in any other purulent and fetid surface or cavity of the human body. According to Von Frantzius, tliis occurrence is a frequent one in the tropics.^ Weber* tells us that in the same locality, especially in Cayenne and Mexico, there is a fly (Lucilia hominivora) which sometimes forces its way even into healthy noses and lays its eggs there; the larvte, measuring one- half inch in length, are developed at the end of fourteen days. Finally, the larvee of the gad-fly (Oestrus) are rarely found in tlie human nose. It has been stated that centipedes m:iy remain for yeai’s in the frontal sinus. Other parasites make of necessity but a temporary sojourn in the nose. Upon tlie duration of their stay, then, will depend in great measure the in- tensity and seriousness of the symptoms. These are never unimportant, and the attendant pain and distress, amounting in many instances to agony, lead- ing to psychical disturbance,delirium, and even death,are graphically descrilied by several authors. All the evidences of general as well as local inflamma- tion, with high fever, are present; the face and fauces become swollen ; the nasal dischai’ge becomes fetid and blood_y; and ulceration and peilbration, especially of tlie palate, may occur. The prognosis of such cases must always, then, be a guarded one, and frequently unfavorable. Treatment^ if we may judge from tbe reported instances, is not always attended with success. If the parasites be large and eirsily reached, they may be extracted witb forceps ; if they are numerous, careful sju’inging with carbo- lized solutions, or, as has been recommended, with solutions of corrosive sub- limate, witb decoctions of bitter herbs or tobacco, or with turpentine, may succeed in dislodging them. The inhalation of chloroform has been highly spoken of as an efficient means of accomplishing the latter result. ' Op. cit., S. II. 2 Wiener med. Presse, No. 7, 1878. ® Med. and Surf;. Rep., Aug. 3, 1878. ‘ Phila. Med. Times, Oct. 30, 1876. ® Arch. Gen. de Med., Mai, 185k ® Am. .four. Med. Sci., May, 1828. ’ Virchow’s Archiv, Bil. xliii. S. 98. ® Reclierches sur la Mouche Anthropage du Mexique. Rec. de Mem. de Med. etc. Mil., Fev. 1867, p. 158. VOL. V.—27