INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. 518 not to slip. Sliould there be a fissure of the hard palate, the operator pro- ceeds to detach the niuco-periosteum by a modification of Langenbeck’s urano-plastic method; making a puncture near the alveolus, he introduces a palatal raspatory of small size, and brings tbe point out in the fissure. Then Fig. 1012. Tubular needle. Fig. 1013. Coghill’s wire-twister. meeting this with a strong aneurism-needle, he replaces the raspatory with the needle, withdrawing the former altogether, and working with the needle from the fissure towards the alveolus. In this way, aided, if necessary, by the leverage of strong, curved scissors, the muco-periosteum of the hard palate is sutficieiitly detached, the hemorrhage, if troublesome, being controlled from time to time by a small sponge pressed against the palate. With the curved scissors, the soft palate is then detached from the bone of the hard, one blade being passed beneath the muco-periosteum, and the other above the soft palate so as to divide the tissue transversely close to the horizontal plate of the palate bone. The muco-periosteal flaps of the hard palate are now closed by a sufficient number of fine wire sutures, and lastly an incision, as recom- mended by Diefienbach, is made on each side of the soft palate, so as to tho- roughly loosen it and take all tension off the stitches, wbicli are then finall}^ adjusted with torsion forceps. In this operation, no formal division of the levator palati muscles, as recom- mended by Sir W. Fergusson, is undertaken, but it is probable that the lateral incisions in the soft palate divide to a great extent the insertions of the levators, while the detachment of the soft from the osseous hard palate must necessarily divide the insertion of the tensors of tbe palate. Many operators, myself among them, have found that they have obtained good union of the soft palate without even lateral incisions; but where the tension is great these should not be omitted, and in cases of great muscular irritability of the palate, the systematic division of the levators may be under- taken with advantage. Whether the division be performed as recommended b}^ Sir A¥. Fergusson, with a lancet-shaped blade set at right angles to the shaft of the knife, and introduced above the soft palate, or with a straight knife thrust through the palate as proposed by Mr. Pollock, the division sliould be performed after the introduction of the stitches, -which both serve to render the muscles tense, and also are moi’e readily introduced before the hemorrhage which is caused by the myotomy, and which is sometimes severe, obscures the view. The material for, and the method of introducing, the stitches, vaiy in the bands of different surgeons. Sir W. Fergusson preferred purse silk, and em- ployed the method devised by Mr. Avery for introducing it, as follows: An ordinary palate-needle, carrying the silk, was passed from before backwards through the margin of the soft palate, and the loop caught with forceps and drawn out of the fissure. This being repeated on the opposite side, one silk