198 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. Foreign Bodies in the Eye.—Foreign particles that remain any time in the eye, nearly always lix themselves in one of two positions. They adhere to the eyeball in front, generally to the cornea, or sweep under and fasten themselves on the inside of the upper lid. Rarely, they gravitate between the lower lid and the ball. Instinctive resistance to any sudden feeling of something in the eye, prompts to spasmodic closure of the lids and rude rubbing with fingers or knuckles. This often fixes and imbeds the cinder, while promptly seizing the lid and holding the eye open, would favor its escape with the gush of tears. The circumstances under which the trou- ble occurs, will often help to decide what it might he, bnt only a thorough examination can determine ichat it is. When consulted for a supposed foreign body in the eye, or when that is a possibility, though not suspected b}’ the l)atient, a critical inspection of the cornea and the eyeball should be made. To do this, good light and good sight are indispensable. Separating and holding the lids gently apart, and directing the patient to turn the eye as desired, the surgeon makes a hasty search of the entire surface of the cornea. If the foreign body is very minute, of a dark color, and lodged near the centre of the cornea, it is better seen obliquely, as you thus get a background of iris rather than of black pupil. . Should it be of light color, it will require very close attention to see it. Oblique illumination., using a large collecting lens of about three inches’ focus, will materially aid the search. Common day light, and still better, a good lamp light, may be thus focussed upon the cornea, and promenaded over its surface. While the seat of the foreign body may be made clear by focal illumination, another similar lens may be used to magnify it and make its detection certain. By these aids, it cannot escape notice, however small. If nothing is found on the cornea or ball by a hasty but adequate inspection, the surgeon should evert the lids and scrutinize their conjunctival surfaces. The lower lid is easily everted by drawing it down towards the cheek, directing the patient to look up, but the foreign body is far more likely to be found under the upper lid. To evert it is not so easy, and requires professional tact. Seize the lashes near the middle of the lid with the thumb and index finger of the left hand, and direct the patient to look steadily and far down. Then drawing the lid slightly away from the eye, and downwards, you press a small probe, the end of a pencil, or even the tip of the finger, above the tarsus, sliding the lid down while the free edge is raised by the left hand, and the eversion is accomplished. Nothing but prac- tice, with light and intelligent fingers, will make this important manoeuvre easy. There is no one thing l)y which a patient who has been once handled by expert fingers, will detect awkwardness and inexperience as quickly as by the way the upper lid is everted. Finding the foreign body, probably on the tarsal surface, near the free edge of the lid, you can readily remove it, and the agony is over. Or failing still to find it, you next explore, as best you can, the upper, concealed folds of conjunctiva. Keeping the lid everted, and the eye turned far downwards, you place the probe on the skin far back, press it downwards, and then hoist it forwards, thus prying out the folds. Strings of matter, granulations, or warty excrescences, may be discovered surrounding a beard of wheat or bailey, a grain of wheat, a piece of straw or splinter of wood, a husk of some seed, or other intruder. Thus it is found and removed. That done, little or no other treatment is required. The patient may have suffered for months, and been blindly tortured with the severest remedies. If only one eye has been affected with stubborn conjunctivitis, without chronic disease of the tear sac, this thorough search for a foreign body lodged in the upper folds should not be neglected. It will often lead to brilliant discoveries, and secure the lasting gratitude of the patient. I have removed scales of seeds, wings of insects, and other foreign bodies that had been fast-