FISTULiE IN THE NECK. 589 genital deficiencies, of wliicli cleft palate, hare-lip, and deformities in the ear, form a part with these fistulous orifices.' These fistulse usually com- municate with the pharynx, though in rare cases they are found to open into the trachea or larynx. Though usually present at birth, they have been in some cases apparently overlooked, or at least not brought under medical observation till the patient has attained adult life. They have been found in several cases to be hereditary, occurring in several generations, and, in one ease, afiecting five children out of eight. They have lieen usually seen on the right side of the neck, behind or in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle, some- where between the thyroid cartilage and tlie sterno-clavicular articulation. In rare cases they have been seen as high as the angle of the jaw. More rarely they have been met with in the middle line, or on both sides, in corres- ponding positions. They may be complete, that is, communicating with the external surface and the pharynx, or incomplete in so tar that no internal opening can be found. Authors have also spoken of such fistulie having an internal and no external orifice, though there does not appear to be good reason for such a statement. Generally they are very small, admitting a probe with difiiculty, but they have been seen large enougli to })ennit the intro- duction of the point of the little finger. The external orifice is occasion- ally found u[)on a small projecting mass of granulations, or it may lie con- cealed under a fold of the skin. A thin, viscid fiuid containing epithelial cells distils from the orifice, or can be expressed from it. This discharge is occasionally puriform, and may concrete so as to close the orifice and prevent the escape of the fiuid. The narrow tract is lined with membrane which occasionally is highly sensitive, and a cord-like thickening may he traced backwards along its course. The discharge from these fistulie is augmented by deglutition, especially of warm fluids, and even by mental excitement; and it is said that menstruation in some cases causes an increased flow of the fluids as well as irritation in the orifice of the fistula. Alimentary matters are not found to escape by the orifices. The direction of the fistula may be straight, or tortuous, and generally runs toward the great cornu of the hyoid bone. When incomplete the passage may be of various lengths, and occasionally portions of cartilage or even of bone may be found attached to it, being vestiges of the branchial arches. The direction of tlie fistula may in many cases be shown by the passage of a probe or small sound, but from the nar- rowness and irregularity of tbe passage, and the violent cough excited, this ex}»loration may he impossible. The injection of colored or pungent fluid may occasionally succeed in proving the communication with the pharynx, while the laryngoscope may in some cases assist the investigation. The true nature of these fistulous openings is thus shown by their not having been }»receded by any local inflammation; by their position, size, and direction ; by the appearance of the external orifices, and the hard cor<ls run- ning upwai'ds therefrom towards the hyoid bone, as well as by the fiuid which distils from them. These fistuhe very rarely heal spontaneously. They seldom embarrass either deglutition or respiration to any serious degree, and, as a rule, they neither demand nor admit of treatment. Injections of tincture of iodiue or of solutions of nitrate of silver, and the galvanic wire, have been tried, but there is risk of bringing about closure of the external orifice only, and so doing harm hy inducing an accumulation of the secretion within. Incisions are useless unless the lining membrane of the track be entirely I'emoved, and to attempt anything of this kind in such a situation, and for so trifling an affection, would be altogether unjustifiable. * See Virchow’s Archiv, 18G4 und 1865 ; also Pitha imd Billroth’s Handhuch, 1871 ; and Arch. G4ii. de Med., .Jauv. 1875.