WOUNDS OF THE NECK, 583 aphonia and fistnlous orifices, is likely to remain. There are a few instances in surgical literature of the entire obliteration of the upper part of the larynx, and that too without the entire loss of the voice. In these rare cases, the air has gained admission to the vocal cords by the external wound. Suttbcation may, however, threaten, from the contraction of the passage and the adhe- sion to surrounding parts preventing movement, hhstulas (which under ordinary circumstances are not common) are, for the most part, due to loss of substance, or to such gaping of the lips of the wound as treatment fails to counteract. They are very difficult to repair. It may be here said that spontaneous rupture of the trachea during violent fits of coughing has been said to occur, but the fact is somewhat doubtful, and is of too little practical interest to be dwelt upon. Bullets, poniards, etc., may reach the pharynx or oesophagus, either through the mouth or by the side of the neck. Jugglers have fatally wounded them- selves in passing swords down their throats, Mr. White relates a remark- able case in which a navvy fell backwards upon a small, sharp pick, which penetrated his neck, and, passing between the carotid vessels, pierced the pharynx immediately behind the posterior pillar of the fauces. The man made a rapid recovery.* Insane persons have inflicted serious 'wounds on these parts through the mouth ; and bougies, forceps, etc., used by siu’geons, have caused laceration and rupture. Even violent vomiting is said to have ruptured what appeai’ed to have been a sound oesophagus. Punctured wounds in which both the air-passages and oesophagus have Ijeen penetrated, are uncommon, yet in deep transverse or oblique wounds they may both he in- volved. Wounds of the pharynx and oesophagus are said to occasion pain, spasm, hiccup, dysphagia, thirst, and a feeling of constriction amounting almost to suffocation. The escape of alimentary matters is not constant, and its occur- rence does not necessarily show that the food-passage has been opened. If the glottis, as the result of swelling or diminution of its nerve supply, loses its sensibility, as it occasionally does in the later stages of 'wounds of the air-passage, it may no longer act as a barrier to the passage of foreign bodies, and thus food may gain admission into the windpi})e and appear at the wound ; but although the escape of alimentary matters is thus not diagnostic of a Avound of the pharynx or oesophagus, yet it is in any case a serious symp- tom, as it implies a grave lesion. Wounds of the hack of the neck may either involve tlie soft parts alone, or penetrate into the spinal cord. In the latter case they are quickly fatal, but in the former they may be very extensive, and yet not cause death.^ The ditficulty in dealing with deep and extensive flesh-wounds in the back of the neck, is to keep the head fixed in a good position and to provide effective drainage. The well-known observations of Larrey, as to atrophy of the testicle and paralysis of the lower limbs following such Avounds even Avhen the brain and cord have apparently escaped, have not been Aerified by more recent experience. In France, it is said that infanticide is occasionally accomplished b}^ insert- ing a needle betAveen the axis and atlas, a mode of murder very difficult to detect. The prognosis of such Avounds of the neck as are not rapidly fatal, is not ahvays easy. The part Avounded and the depth of the lesion are often more important than its extent; hut the opinion formed of the result will in all 1 British Medical Journal, vol. ii. p. 146. 1876. 2 See Legouest, Traite de Chirurgie d’Arniee ; Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion ; and the author’s Notes on the Surgery of the War in the Crimea.