CLOSURE OF THE JAWS. 547 Tinsightly, the patient is generally able to feed better, particulaidy if one of the molar teeth is wanting. The treatment of cicatrices by simple division within the month, is perfectly futile, for although wedges may be employed for a time to keep the jaws apart, they will certainly be drawn together by the rigid contraction of heal- ing. In order to secure improvement in the patient’s condition, it is necessary to prevent the adhesion of the cheek to the alveoli, and to restore as far as possible the pouch of mucous membrane between them. This can only be done by adapting to the teeth metal plates or shields which can be constantly worn after free division of the cicatrices, and which, reaching well beyond the gums, can prevent adhesion taking place between the cheek and the alveoli. After a long time, a formation of mucous membrane takes place in the sulcus thus formed, and the plates may then be dispensed with in the daytime, but must be worn for many months at night. It is obvious that treatment of such a protracted nature cannot be carried out in children, and that the cooperation of an able mechanical dentist is essential for success. The method is appli- cable only to cases in which the whole thickness of the cheek is not involved ; but the extent of the adhesions is comparatively unimportant, since the plates can be a<lapted to both sides of the mouth, as in a case of my owm.^ Ill the case of unilateral adhesions, division of the lower jaw in front of the cicatrices, and the formation of a false joint, give very good results. Es- march removed a wedge-shaped piece of bone, so as to secure librous union with free mobility, while Rizzoli contented himself Avith dividing the jaAv from the mouth, and trusted to the subsecpient movements to establish a false joint. I have no experience of Rizzoli’s method, but, having twice per- formed Esmarch’s operation, have every reason to be satisfied Avith it. The operation is a very simple one, an incision along the loAver border of the jaAv easily admitting of the use of a narroAV saAv for the removal of a Avedge of bone, the base of Avliich should be beloAV. The only point of importance is that the section should be made thoroughly in front of the cicatrix in the cheek, for if this is not attended to, the operation Avill fail. The operation is applicable mostly to cases in which one side of the mouth is affected, and in two or three Aveeks restores to the jiatient a very useful, though one-sided, amount of masticatory poAver, Avith very little suffering or annoyance. One side of the jaAv remains of course permanently useless, and there is necessarily some deformity left, but the relief is permanent. A patient upon Avhom I operated in 1864, called on me in 1880, to shoAv how satisfactory the move- ment of tier jaAV continued. Infiammation of the temporo-maxillary articulation may lead to complete anchylosis of the joint, and consecpient immobility of the jaAvs. Arthritis occurs as the result of injury, or of constitutional atfection. In children it folloAvs the exanthemata, and is often connected with suppuration in the tympanum. In adults, it is of a rheumatic or gouty, and therefore more chronic, character. Rheumatoid artliritis also affects the temporo-maxillary articulation, and leads to great suffering from the painful movement of the jaw. In two patients I have noticed the characteristic enlargement of the condyle and neck of the bone, Avith ])rotrusion of the chin to the opposite side, described by Robert Adams in his great work on the subject. This disease does not, however, lead to the osseous anchylosis, or synostosis, Avhich is met Avith in cases of common arthritis Avitli suj)puration. In acute infiammation of the joint, leeching and fomentations, Avith timely evacuation of pus, Avould be the appropriate treatment. In the more clironic forms, attention to the constitutional diathesis, and the fret|uent application Injuries and Diseases of the Jaws.