438 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. the stimulus being transmitted through the fifth nerve to the medulla, and thence reflected, mainly to the muscles of respiration ; or the cause may be central, as in the curious cases where it is excited by the emotions; thus, Stalphat van der Weil' reports instances in which coitus was always preceded by violent paroxysms of sneezing f Schubart, one of a young girl, who for several nights suffered from fits of sneezing, repeated three hundred times and more on each occasion; Albrecht, again, relates one of an infant in whom sneezing occurred one hundred times an hour, and caused death (Watson); and Mosler, the case of a girl with an ear affection, a sequel of typhoid fever, where the paroxysms lasted twenty-four hours. More modern instances also are not wanting in profusion.^ As a rule, the affection, if it may he so termed, is an unimportant one, especially in the first class of cases alluded to ; but that serious results may follow prolonged and violent attacks of sneezing can be readily appreciated. Epistaxis, haemoptysis, menorrhagia, and even cerebral hemorrhage, have been known to ensue, as well as, in rarer instances, amaurosis from I’etinal hemorrhage, epilepsy, abortion, and sudden death from rupture of an aneu- rism. (Watson, Cohen.) Treatment.—In many cases of hyperaesthesia dependent upon the central causes outlined above, the treatment of the symptom is useless, being unat- tended by any good result. If sneezing he dependent only upon hyperaes- thesia of the mucous membrane, the local use of sedative ointments, such as stramonium, aconite, and camphor, will play a useful part. If due to hysteria, preparations of assafoetida and valerian (Cohen), valerianate of iron, and the use of a weak solution of aq. laurocerasi, snuffed up the nostrils (Mayer), and the inhalation of tobacco snuff (Gray), may be employed ; while if it occur in the course of a neuralgia of the facial nerve, sedatives ai’e indi- cated, with tonics. Spasmodic twitching of the nose, if not the result of mere habit, probably depends upon chorea, and is associated with similar convulsive muscular contractions of the face, or even of the body. The indications for treatment suggest themselves. Paralysis of the nostrils is probably a partial manifestation of paralysis of the facial nerve, though it may exist, it is true, but rarely, as a purely local affection. It amounts to a serious inconvenience only when both nostrils are affected, and oral respiration becomes a necessity. The nature of the treatment must depend upon the cause of the paralysis; localljq the use of the electric current is indicated. Nasal Cough, and the Existence of a Sensitive Reflex Area, in the Nose.— Attention has been called, in a previous section of this essay, to the fact that violent or paroxysmal cough is not infrequentl}^ a symptom of nasal disease, and is specially attendant upon those pathological conditions which affect the inferior turbinated bones. J. IST. Mackenzie^ has investigated the question both experimentally and clinically, and in an interesting paper has given his results or conclusions as follows;— ’ Obs. Rates cle M^decine, etc. 2 See, also, J. N. Mackenzie, Irritation of the Sexual Apparatus as an Etiological Factor in the production of Nasal Disease (A'u. Jour. Med. Sci., April, 1884). 3 Russell, case due to cerumen (Brit. Med. Jour,, vol. ii. p. 937. 1879) ; Woakes (Lancet, March, 1880, p. 253); also Lancet, Nov. 1873, p. 8(14; Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 1889, p. 90 ; Ibid., Dec. 1879, p. 1021. * Am. Jour. Med. Sciences, -luly, 1883.