753 MORBID GROWTHS OF THE TRACHEA. Secondary carcinoma seems still more rare, the only record at command being an instance of primary carcinoma in the upper third of the (Esophagus, reported by Eppinger,* in which a roundish, metastatic nodule, the size of a walnut, was developed at the bifurcation, half of it projecting inward into the lumen of the trachea, and the other half being imbedded between the trachea and the oesophagus. Eppinger mentions also that disseniinated me- lanotic patches occur in the tracheal mucous membrane as metastases from primary melanotic carcinoma of the skin. Carcinoma of the trachea in extension of carcinoma of contio;uous oro;ans, is by no means infrecpient. ihese extensions occur from the (Esophagus, the larynx, the thyroid gland, the bronchial glands, and the bronchi. Ulcera- tion is most frecpient in cases progressing from the (Esophagus and the larynx, and fistulous communication between the trachea and (Esophagus is not rare. A carcinoma of the two tubes may attain great dimensions, sometimes imbed- ding the common carotid artery, the jugular vein, the pneumogastric nerve, and the pleura.^ Symptoms of Intra-trachecd Tumors.—There are no symptoms specially indicative of a growth in the trachea, unless it becomes large enough to inter- fere mechanically with respiration, and to produce intense cough, dyspncEa, and even stridor. Harsh, dry, persistent cough has in some instances pre- ceded the labored respiration and stridor, and it is quite probable that dry, sonorous rtdes are among the earliest symptoms. The voice is sometimes much impaired in strength by reason of the limited volume of the expira- tory current. A forward position of the head has sometimes a marked in- fiuence in ameliorating the intensity of the symptoms, and the recumbent position may become unendurable. The intensity of the dyspnoea depends much on the mobility, size, and location of the growth. It is sometimes sutibcative. In Dr. Eifield’s^ case, a primary pedunculated growth the size of a grape, and attached to the trachea at the mouth of the bronchus, closed the left bronchus to the inspiratory current as with a pea-valve. Mackenzie^ records a case in which a similar polypus covered tlie Ith, 5th, and Gth rings anteriorly, and in which death was sudden. Stallard® reports a case in which sudden death ensued after a fit of coughing. Quite large growths however may exist without symptoms sufiicieutly significant to suggest laryngoscopic examination.® The symptoms may simulate those of aneurism.'^ The symptoms of sarcoma are similar to those of benign growths. Those of carcinoma embrace usually pain and the sym}(torns of stricture of the trachea in addition. In carcinoma by extension, these become su])eradded to the earlier symptoms of disease in contiguous organs, especially dysphagia, from carcinoma of the (Esophagus, and dysphonia or aphonia, from pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerves. Diagnosis.—This is possible only by laryngo-tracheosco})y, or by inspection or palpation through a tracheal wound. It is probable that the outline of a tumor might be detected by strong transmitted illumination from the exte- rior (method of Massei). In the laryngoscopic image, a tumor is seen below the cricoid cartilage. If obscured liy the })resence of a laryngeal growth, dyspnoea continuing after removal of the latter may lead to a correct diag- nosis.® But little can be inferred from inspection as to the nature of the 1 Klebs, op. cit., Bd. ii. Abth. 1, S. 302. 2 Wood, I5rit. Med. Jour., Feb. 25, 1871, p. 196. 3 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Nov. 14, 1861 ; cited by Gibb. Op. cit., vol. i. p. 525. ® Loo. cit. ® Tuerck, op. cit., S. 502. ^ Delafield, loc. cit. ® Fonrnie, loc. cit. VOL. V.—48