776 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. ports when large portions of the gullet have been removed. In one case, Winiwarter, who has been one of the most successful operators, pulled the anterior wall of the oesophagus in front of the trachea, and secured it with sutures to the cutaneous wound, so as to prevent escape of foreign matters into the air-passages. It seems generally conceded that no sutures should he taken in the integument, except to keep the transverse or oblique edges of large flaps in apposition. The central portion of the wound should be left freely exposed to facilitate drainage, and to aid the manipu- lations necessary in the after-treatment. When bleeding has ceased, the entire raw surface should he sprayed or douched with an antiseptic solution, a five-per-cent, zinc-chloride solution being preferred by most operators. A thick, soft-rubber catheter of large calibre is then passed into the stomach through the wound, and allowed to project externally. This is secured by a ligature, so that it shall remain in position for several days for purposes of nutrition. The wound is then closely packed with antiseptic gauze or cotton. Salicylic acid, carbolic acid, iodine, or iodoform is used, according to the preference of the operator. The dressings are usually withdrawn and replaced every day, a tainpon-canula being in use while the wound is being washed or irrigated. Some operators keep a continuous cloud of antiseptic spray playing over the wound for sevei'al da}'s, the more thoroughly to keep it disinfected. Xonrishment and stimulus are freely sup})lied at regular inter- vals by means of a funnel inserted into the stomach-tube, the external orifice of which is kept plugged at other times. The subsequent management of the case has to be conducted on general surgical principles, it being understood that the whole after-treatment requires the assiduous supervision of the sur- geon for at least two weeks, that it will severely tax his patience and his ingenuity, and that it may disappoint him in the end. After a few days, when the track of the wound begins to be firm, the stomach-tube is removed, and replaced only at times of feeding, the patient being encouraged from time to time to try and swallow food. When this can be accomplished, the stomach-tube is laid aside definitively. In one of Czerny’s cases this was ju’acticahle after the fifth day. The tampon-can- ula is usually employed instead of the ordinary tracheotomy-tube as long as any danger of second- ary hemorrhage remains, say for a period of eight or ten days. At- tenqds to introduce an artificial larynx should he delayed until the [>arts have somewhat assumed their permanent,cicatricial form, say for a period of about two weeks. Too early attenq)ts at its use sometimes })roduce hemor- rhage, Avhile the sliape of an a}>- paratus which is adjustable at first, is often useless after cicatil- zation of the canal of extiiq)ation. As a i-ule, cicatrization is satis- factory, so that the integument closes quite up to the orifice of the canula. ^Then a large portion of the in- tegument has had to be removed for disease, or has sloughed away, quite a large and irregular orifice maj' remain uncovered, as in the case illustrated