1133 INGUINAL HERNIA. is still weak, some violent crying or conghing eftbrts of the child protrude the bowel, pushing and dilating tlie cicatrix before it, and a fresh sac of peritoneum is invaginated from above into the upjier part of the large tunica vaginalis, which is pushed before it into the sci’Otum. We have thus formed that kind of children’s rupture with a doubled sac which is called infantile [or ancystedi] hernia. (Fig. 1130.) In this there are three layers of serous mem- brane placed in front of the bowel in the scrotum, viz., two layers of the in- vaginated tunica vaginalis, and one of the fresh, or real sac of the hernia. This may, like other Ibrms of rupture, become strangulated, and may cause per- plexity to tlie operator. Here also the testicle may be covered and obscured by the hernial Y)rotrusion, which is usually less easily reducible than in tlie strictly congenital form, when not complicated by adliesions within the sac. The direction of the long axis of all forms of oblique inguinal hernia is obliquely upwards, outwards, and slightly backwards, and this must be care- fully borne in mind both in diagnosis and in the application of the taxis. Inylirect inguinal hernia the long axis corresponds more to the axis of the body, with a more decided backwai’d tendency at the neck of the sac. This backward direction is scarcely ever needed, however, in the manipulation of the taxis, as when the strangulated part moves under the pressure of the u[)[»er fingers, the contents slip inwards spontaneously. The ajiplication of the taxis in inguinal hernia, in infants and little children, especially when they cry violently, is powerfully aided by lifting up the pelvis from the bed by grasping the heels with the feet a little separated. This takes off the abdominal pressure in the violent, expiratory, crying and coughing efforts, and does no harm whatever to the child, if the shoulders and head be left resting on the bed. X slight shake of the body in this position aids also the }iressure of the fingers, by the inward drag upon the engaged bowel and omentum. Diagnosis of Strangulated Inguinal Hernia.—Inguinal hernia in a state of strangulation is usually easy to detect, by the association of a tumor in the region of the groin with general and abdominal symptoms of obstruction and strangulation. It is of practical importance to know, however, l)efore pro- ceeding to the taxis or to operative measures, first, whether the hernia is inguinal or crural, and secondly, whether, if inguinal, it be oblif[ue or direct. In very stout persons, especially in females, this is sometimes by no means easy. The fold of skin in the groin is deflected downwards in fat persons, so that the long axis of the hernia may seem Iiigher in crural, or lowei- in inguinal rupture, than it is in reality. The first means of diagnosis, and the most important, is by observing the relative position of the puljic spine and of the attachment of the inner end of Poupart’s ligament. This can usually l>e made out even in the fattest subject. Then, if the tumor be felt to lie upon the pubic spine with its central axis above and internal to Ponpart’s liga- ment, while the opening of the external ring is blocked l)y the tumor, and the sai»benous 0})ening is free, we may be sure tliat the hernia is ingninaf and, it the reverse, that it is crural. The long axis of both of these hernire, when tnlly formed, is downwards and inwards, but the inguinal is relatively higher and more internal. In oblique inguinal hernia, the neck-tumor is more pyriform, and extends more iqiwards and outwards along and above Pou[)art’s ligament than in the direct variety, producing more obscuration of Poiijiart’s ligainent and of the spei’inatic cord, which may be felt to dis- apjiear liehind it. In the d.ii-ect form, the root or neck of the tumor, which is globular, seems to spring out of the abdomen inimediately and suddenly above the pubic spine, the fulness not being traceable along the canal, but closely skirting the outer border of the rectus muscle. In old and large