189 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ORBIT. the exoplithalmus, the goitre, and the nervous palpitation of the heart— makes mistakes impossible. Pulsating exophthahnus is rarely seen on both sides; is always of traumatic origin; and is distinguished by the striking pulsation and bruit over the region of the orbit. Its pathology is found to be rupture of the internal carotid into the cavernous sinus of the brain, and nothing but ligation of the caro- tid can relieve it. Many years ago I reported a case caused by the passage of a cart wheel over a man’s head, where both carotids had to be tied before the symptoms could be relieved. How often do we diagnose locomotor ataxia by the extreme and persistent contraction of the pupils. Such pupils do not change in size under varying degrees of light, but contract instantly when the patient looks at and reads tine print, or accommodates for any small, near object. I recall a case in which the patient was first treated for diplo- pia, resulting from pai-alysis of the external rectus of one eye. From this he completely recovered in aljout a year. He consulted me again for slowly failing sight. This was at least two years after his first recovery. I then detected this peculiar smallness of the pupils, and beginning gray atrophy of the right optic nerve. The myosis persists to this day, notwithstanding total blindness in both eyes fi’om optic atrophy. A knowledge of the semi-decussation of the fibres of the optic nerves in the chiasm, and of their peculiar distribution in tbe retinai, often enables us to fix the seat of a tumor at the base of the brain. Double optic neuritis gene- rally means brain lesion, but does not locate it. llerniopla, an extinction of vision in one-half the field, the dividing line being vertical—especially wlien it affects both eyes—may 1)C a means of determining the seat of the lesion. For instance, darkness in the right half of the field in both eyes, means lesion of the left tractus opticus at tlie base of the brain, and vice versa. Blindness in both outer halves of the field (resulting from paralysis of the inner half of each retina) points to tumor of the pineal gland or the infundibulum, involv- ing the |iosterior part of the optic chiasm. Extinction of both inner halves of tlie field, a rare occurrence, has been rationally exi)lained, by Dr. Knapp, as indicating an atheromatous degeneration of the coats of the arteries in the circle of Willis. Other syni[itoms about the eyes hel[) to fix the seat of cere- bral troubles, but I cite these to show how much precision may be gained by observing the rational symi)toms without the use of the ophthalmoscope. Indeed, in these cases, the instrument may be of no use whatever, as its findings are often negative. Injuries and Diseases of the Orbit. Injuries of the Orbit.—All serious life must be wrought out in the face of foes. Hears and mars of the face mean courage ; wounds in the rear tell the sad tale of retreat and mortification. The eyes were planted in the face, to look ahead and insure progress. The motto of true manhood is onward and upward. It is not a mere question of animal existence, and the survival of the fittest. Fight we must, to live. But true noljility pronqfis to the divine art of healing, and of hel})ing the weak. For these, and still higher reasons, wounds of the face and eyes are far more frecpient and import- .ant than injuries of the occiput and podex. The jewel of the face and light of the soul, is the eye. Its precious safety is guaranteed liy firm and jiromi- nent bony protections, and the delicacy with which the ball is pivoted in the socket. Its round form and easy ixfiation save it often from rupture and injuries that would otherwise destroy it. The application of blunt force is warded off by the bones. Penetrating weapons, unless very direct, pass the