INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 864 Erysipelas of Abdomen. Cutaneous erysipelas of the abdomen is sometimes seen as part of an at- tack of general erysipelas of the trunk, and spreading sometimes to the upper parts of the thighs and arms. It occurs occasionally after excision of the mamma, and the removal of tumors from the abdominal -walls, and slowly spreads until it has involved the thorax, abdomen, back, and buttocks. It is generally seen in fat persons past middle age, wiiose kidneys are advanced in granular degeneration. It will arise in spite of the most rigid antiseptic precautions and dressings; it is ]iot in my experience contagious, but is very dangerous to the life of the patient. It bespeaks a low degree of vitality, and though the individual may before the operation have appeared robust, the urine is generally found to be of low specific gravity, and the recupera- tive power exceedingly small. In five fatal cases out of seventy-three of breast-amputation which I have performed, three of the patients died from this form of erysipelas. Affections of the Umbilicus. Epithelioma of the umbilicus is a rare disease. M. Despres recentl}- reported a case at the Societe de Chirurgie, of a woman aged sixty-five upon whom he had operated, removing the tumor by two semicircular incisions, lie had to remove at the same time parts of the peritoneum and omentum which were invaded by the epithelioma. The tumor removed, he plugged the wound with the omentum, and thus left an epiploeele in place of the cancer. The patient was well in a fortnight. M. Aicaise, at the same meeting, de- scribed a case of fibrous tumor of the umbilicus, in removing which he had to open the peritoneum; the patient made a good recoveiy. Mr. Francis Mason' has recorded a case of papillary tumor four inches in length and one and a-half inches in width, which he removed from the abdominal wall of a girl aged 20. The growth was congenital, and, with a similar oiie about the size of a pea, close to it, had iiever given the least pain or inconvenience locally, except through a slight, oflensive discharge, which was sufficient however to prevent her from keeping a situation as domestic servant. The structure was of the ordinary warty character. The growth was excised, and five years afterwards it was known that there neither had been nor was then any recurrence. Large sarcomatous tumors of the abdominal Avail are sometimes met Avith, and may be successfully removed even though the peritoneum is ex- tensively implicated.* My Colleague, Mr. A. Clark, removed a groAvth of this sort Avhich had commenced below the level of the umbilicus, on the deep aspect or in the substance of tlie rectus muscle, and Avhich, after pene- trating the parietal peritoneum, had involved the subjacent abdominal aus- cera. The Avhole of the disease could not be removed at the operation, and the patient died in forty-eight hours. Fleshy polypi of the umbilicus originate in an error in cicatrization, and are first noticed after the umbilical cord falls off. Their size varies from that of a currant to that of a date-stone or larger, their surface is moist, and they 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lend., vol. xxii. p. 229. 2 Loud. Med. Record, May 15, 1883, p. 170.