162 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD, inability to stoop, or to hang down the head. If the patient sleep with the head low, he is apt to be troubled with fearful dreams, and to wake up terri- fied. On the whole, however, symptoms due to brain pressure are not observed with this aneurism, or only to some slight degree—the growth of the tumor, and its injurious contact with the brain, being opposed by the dura mater. Vomiting may occur, but is much less common than it is in other cerebral aneurisms, and epileptic attacks, muscular spasms, gross palsies, and in- tellectual troubles, are all either entirely absent or at least quite exceptional. The special symptoms depend upon lesion of the nerves in the cavernous sinus, the nerves most usuallj'^ affected being the third and fifth, and then the fourth or sixth. The optic nerve appears to be seldom pressed upon. The special symptoms, therefore, will probably commence with ptosis, dilated pupil, and external strabismus, or with severe neuralgia of the first division of the fifth nerve, associated with photophobia, and sometimes with tempo- rary congestion of the conjunctiva.' In time, paralysis of the fourth and sixth nerves usually follows, and the eye becomes motionless, but the loss of func- tion in either of these nerves may not occur for a considerable time, as, for example, in Mr. Hutchinson’s case, where the paralysis of the superior ob- lique muscle did not appear until ten years after the commencement of the symptoms.^ As a rule, the neuralgia gives way to numbness of the forehead and some part of the face. The troubles of vision consist usually of loss of accommodation and diplopia. But there may lie optic neuritis, and absolute blindness in the eye of the afiected side.^ It is unnecessary perhaps to observe that all these pressure s^anptoms are strict!}^ limited to one side. In addi- tion to these evidences, a very distinct blowing bruit can be heard on auscul- tation over the afiected side of the head, more especially about the anterior temporal region; and in those cases in which the cavernous sinus is much compressed, there may be vascular engorgement of the globe with undue pro^ minence of the eyeball. This aneurism may undergo spontaneous cure, as oc- curred in the celebrated case reported by Mr. Hutchinson, and just referred to. 'With regard to treatment^ the only operative measure to be advised is liga- ture of the common carotid artery. This operation should not be performed until the diagnosis has been clearly established, and other means have failed to effect improvement. One must also assume that no obstacle to the ope- ration is offered either by the patient’s general health, or by the condition of the main ai’tery in the neck. One such operation has been recorded. It occurred in the practice of Mr. Coe, of Bristol.^ The patient was a woman aged fifty-five, and the operation resulted in a complete cure. Aneurism of the Middle Meningeal Artery.—Aneurisms of this vessel are extremely uncommon, and are usually, if not always, due to injury of some kind. They have a tendency to perforate the skull, and to appear externally beneath the scalp. Before such perforation occurs, the nature of the tumor may be a matter of much uncertainty. The symptoms before per- foration are those due to pressure upon the brain. The patient complains of severe and often well-localized headache, of vertigo, of a constant buzzing in the ears, and of a tendency to faintness, and perhaps to vomiting. There may be moreover spasms in some particular set of muscles on the opposite side, or paral}’sis of those muscles, or even hemiplegia of tlie opposite side.® In ‘ See a case recorded by Dr. Humble. Lancet, vol. ii. page 489. 1875. * Trans. Clinical Soc. Lend. 1875. 3 J. W. Ogle, Brit, and For. Med.-Cliir. Review, vol xxxvi. page 493. 1865. ‘ Association Journal, page 1067. 1855. ® Follin et Duplay, Traite de Path. Ext., tome iii. p. 584. 1869.