1069 DISTENSION OF THE GALL-BLADDER. two quarts of bile; the biliary ducts were also greatly distended, except where the common duct entered the duodenum, and here was a conti'action through which bile could only he squeezed Avith difficulty. Mi*. Todd, of Dublin,^ opened an enlarged biliary duct in a girl aged 14, supposing it to be an hepatic abscess, and tAvo quarts of viscid, green bile Avere evacuated through a canula. Some variety Avill also be found in the other symptoms; thus, if the dilata- tion he due to obstruction of long standing, the liver may at length contract to less than its natural size, in place of being full and enlarged. If the accu- mulation have arisen from impaction of gall-stones at the neck of the gall- bladder, or ill the cystic duct, and these act like a vaH^e, so as to alloAv the ingress of bile but not the egress, there may be no jaundice, no clay-colored motions, and no bile-pigmented urine. Sucli cases are, hoAvever, rare. The tumor may suddenly subside, OAving to the dislodgment of the obstruction, in Avhich event bile Avill be dischai’ged freely Avith the feces, and the jaundice Avill soon disappear. If the subsidence of the tumor is the effect of rupture of the thinned or degenerated coats of the gall-bladder, fatal peritonitis Avill set in. In some cases the bile is gradually absorbed, though the obstruction remains, and then shrinking of the gall-bladder takes the place of distension. If, as sometimes happens, distension arises Avithout any obstruction of the ducts, the gall-bladder may be emptied by pressure upon the tumor. In a case related by M. Petit, in Avliich he Avas about to open a tumor in the hepatic region under the impression that it Avas an abscess, he had scarcely cut tlie skin Avhen the tumor sensibly collapsed, and the patient shortly after- Avards discharged a quantity of green bile. In another case of ] ’etit’s, the gall- bladder could be sometimes diminished by pressure, and sometimes under- Avent spontaneous evacuation. In a case in Avhich I Avas asked to aspirate or otherwise open an alidominal tumor Avhich Avas sup[)Osed to be, probably, hydatid, I declined to interfere, as I lielieved from the slightly icteric line of the skin, the pale feces, and the high-colored urine, that the enlargement Avas more probably due to distension of the gall-bladdei’ from a temporary cause. My colleague, at this suggestion, at once acquiesced in delaying punc- ture, and the diagnosis Avas contirmed in a very short time by the sponta- neous disappearance of the tumor, the return of the stools and urine to their natural character, and the rapid general improvement in health. It is umvise to make any forcible attempt to reduce sucb a sAvelling by manipulation or pressure, for, as Bright pointed out, after long distension the Avails of the gall-bladder become so thin that they may givcAva}^ under ordinary handling, tie refers to a case in Avhich this actually occurred duilng post-mortem examination. Distension of the Gall-bladder avitii Fluid secreted by the Mucous Glands and Epithelium of the Sac.—This is Avhat is knoAvn as “ dropsy of the gall-bladder” [Hydrops cystidis felleoe), and as Cholecystone]ms. The longer the obstruction has existed, the freer the tluid from admixture with bile ; and if the distension is very extreme, its coats ma}" be so tbin that the gall-bladder, as Walther has remarked, is as pellucid as the bladder of fishes. Tlie characters of the tluid vary, and it appears tliat the mucous secretion of the gall-bladdei- often deviates from the normal standard. It may be a thin auil fiiiky,or a thick and starchy fluid, coagulable into a firm mass by heat, acids or alcohol, and, except that the coagulurn seems denser, it very accurately resembles serum.^ It is a sero-mucous fluid, either tninsparent or colorless, and is derived from a membrane in a state of chronic intlammation. * DuL. IIosp. Rep., vol. i. page 32.'i. ^ W. Thomson, op. cit.