840 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. involve the greater portion of the breast, or are scattered through its whole substance, excision of the entire breast is the only satisfactory remedy. If the cysts are small, not increasing in size, and not causing any annoyance, operative interference may be delayed until they become troublesome. Adenomata and Fibromata.—These growtlis, which are composed of con- nective tissue in a more or less perfect or embryonic state, may be classed together, because, as a clinical fact, it is not usually possible to distinguish them from one another until they have been subjected to microscopic exami- nation. A purely adenoid tumor is of very rare occurrence, and may be described as a growth composed of fully developed glandular tissue, such as is met with in the physiologically active mamma. TliQ fibroma may be described as a tumor mainly composed of fibrous tissue in a more or less developed state, and containing in the majority of instances some adenoid or glandular structure in its substance; bence such tumors have been termed by some, fibro-adenomata. These tumors may be consi- dered innocent in their nature, and are separated from the breast-structure by a well-marked fibrous capsule. Two varieties are met with : first, tlie solid; second, the cystic. The solid tumor is met with as a circumscribed, firm, elastic swelling, usually lobulated, but with the lobules sometimes so small that the tumor feels smootli and regular. It is most frequently situated superficially, below the nipple, or at the axillary margin of the breast; but it also occurs in the substance of the gland itself; and I have met with two cases in which the tumor formed a prominent swelling behind the breast. Occasionally these tumors have been found to be pedun- culated ; and, wherever situated, their capsule is more or less adherent to the lireast-structure. Their growth is usually slow, but it may be somewhat rapid, especially in the cystic form ; and their size varies from that of a bean to that of a child’s head. It has occasionally been observed that these tumors increase temporarily in size during menstruation and pregnancy. There can be no doubt that they may become smaller, and that the}’ may even disappear spontaneously. According to my experience, these tumors are most frequently met with in young adults, but they may occur at any age, from twelve to sixty. They are usually single, but multiple growths are sometimes met with. In the cystic form the growth is usually distinctly lobulated, bas a tendency to grow more quickly than in the solid form, and is firm to the feel at some points and fluctuating at others. Growths varying in form and color spring from tlie inner wall of the cyst, and in not a few cases there is some dis- charge from the nipple. This variety of the growth is more frequently met with at a later age than is the case with the more solid variety. These tumors occasionally inflame, suppurate, and fungate, more particularly in the cystic form. A large, fungating, solid fibroma has come under mj ob- servation, but the ulceration and fungation in this case were the result of a quack application. Calcareous and other changes also afiect these tumors, and I have removed a fibroma which had become almost entirely converted into a calcareous mass. Diagnosis of the Solid Form.—A firm, elastic, circumscribed, and more or less lobulated tumor is observed, usually of slow growth, having the skin and other tissues over it freely movable, and showing no signs of discoloration. As has already been mentioned, it is common to find these tumors adherent at one point, usually in their deeper relations to the breast-structure. The cystic form constitutes a tumor distinctly lobulated, varying in degrees of solidity and fluctuation, circumscribed, and in some instances attended