995 ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. Loose and Foreign Bodies in the Peritoneum. Besides such morbid contents as lilood and air, other substances ai’e found free in the peritoneal cavity, such as gall-stones and intestinal concretions which have escaped by ulceration. These, however, when they do not cause fatal peritonitis, become encysted by adliesions, rather than continue quite free and uncontined in the cavity. Loose bodies, of size varying from that of a bean to that of a pigeon’s egg, are occasionally met with in the general cavity of the peritoneum, and may be of several kinds ; (1) Growths connected with the intestine by long, thread-like pedicles, or cast entirely off; (2) appen- dices epiploicse, as pointed out by Mr. Shaw; (3) loose earthy and calcareous bodies, probably detached and degenerate mesenteric glands, as in Case CCXXXI. gi'^en by Ilabershon; (4) coagula of blood, which after clotting have been organized into tiludnous masses ; (5) detached uterine myomata ; ^ (6) portions of large fatty tumors, which have undergone fibrous and osseous transformation, and have then become separated from the original mass.^ Such loose bodies may get into a hernial sac and give rise to symptoms of hernia. Foreign bodies introduced from Avithout, sometimes lodge a long time in the i)eritoneum. One of the most extraordinary cases of this sort has quite recently been recorded by Thorndike :—^ A sailor, aged 41, was in tlie liabit of pushing an 8-onnce bottle into the rectum to overcome retention of urine due to spasm. On one occasion, not having a bottle, he in- troduced a pebble 5 inches by 3 inches in magnitude; the stone sli{)[)ed up beyond the sphincter ; the captain’s boy tried to remove it by pushing liis hand up after it“ as high as the shouldertwo days afterwards laparotomy along the outer border of the left rectus was performed, and the stone, which was found lying among the intestines just below the stomach, was removed. The patient made a good recovery. Abdominal Abscesses. Abdominal abscesses are of four kinds: (1) Those bctiveen, and on tlie exterior of, the viscera of the abdomen; these are often, but by no means tilways, the consequence of abdominal injuries which have given rise to localized peritonitis. (2) Visceral abscesses, or those which have originated in, and, for a time at least if not throughout the Avhole of their course, are confined to, the interior of some one organ ; such are the hep)atic, splenic, renal, omental, and biliary abscesses. (3) Parietal abscesses, or those which occur ti’om various causes between the layers of the abdominal parietes. (4) Retro-[)eritoneal abscesses. The last two varieties having been already considered, we have now to describe only the first two. Peritoneal abscesses are of two kinds, the circumscribed and the ditfused. 1. Tlie ahscesses ivhich, are exterior to the onjans, and yet circumscrihed, occur in all pafi’ts of the abdominal and pelvic cavities, and are walled in by fibrinous adhesions lietween viscera and piarietes, or between two or more of the vis- cera, or two or more coils of the intestine. Such ’cases are of great interest and inqiortance in regard to both diagnosis and treatment; but they vary so greatly from one another in their symptoms, course, and pathological I Eve, Trans. J’at.h. Soc. Loud., vol. xxxi. p. 310. ^ Dresehfeld, ibid., vol. xxxi. p. 287. 3 Medical and Surgical Reports of the Boston City IIo.spital, 3d series, 1882.