270 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. continued use of iron, iodine, and cod-liver oil, inwardly, must be enforced. A favorite remedy with me, is the sj’rup of iodide of iron, long continued. As a dose after each meal, I give as many drops as the child is years old. Bathing the child at least twice a week, at bedtime, in tepid water, followed by lively friction ; good nutritious food at regular intervals ; healthy hygienic surroundings ; and free, daily exercise in the open air, with proper attention to clothing and cleanliness, must he enforced as a religious duty. I cannot too strongly emphasize the necessity for long perseverance in invigorating general treatment, in this class of patients. Present relief and improved health for life, will he thus gained. Unsightly loss of the eyelashes, blear- eyes, trichiasis, ectropium, weeping, and a train of other torments, are prevented by proper, early treatment. The management of phlyctenular keratitis, and of the skin-diseases so often associated with blepharitis ciliaris, has been described under another head. I wish only to call special attention here to the prompt relief afforded by the mechanical removal of the thickened epithe- lium at the seat of the phlyctenula, and along the hands of vessels leading to it, in the so-called “hand keratitis.” I am constantly in the habit of using a wooden tooth-pick, and prefer it to the spud or probe. The tooth-pick must he hard, tough, and sufficiently stiff. The small end is dipped in pure carbolic acid, and then ploughed along the course of the vessels and the seat of the phlyc- tenula, so as to scratch off the half-dead tissues. This must he done thoroughly, holding the lids firmly apart with the thumb and finger, without eversion. The bloodvessels are thus scraped off wifh the other new ju-oducts, and the free bleeding is decidedly beneficial. The point of the tooth-pick can now and then be dipped in the acid, so as to whiten and destroy the diseased tissues. "Water can he held ready, and put on if too much acid is present. The wood ahsoi’bs and holds the solution better than a metal instrument. After this is thoroughly done, a drop or two of atropine solution relieves the pain. It is wonderful how quickly the violent symptoms are thus controlled. Chalazion.—Inflammation with obstruction of the excretory ducts of the ^leihomian glands of the lids, is a rather common trouble. Some swelling, like that of a stye, soreness, and pain, are present, and in a short time a yellow point indicates a collection of pus and of the proper secretion of the follicle. "Warm fomentations at first, and puncture when the ripe stage appears, are the successful remedies. In adults, tumors of the lids often develop with little or no inflammation, projecting under the skin and giving the feeling to the linger of a hard shot or bullet. These are sometimes single, hut oftener multiple, and a succession of them is frequently noticed. They are situated over the region of the tarsus of the upper or lower lid, and sometimes reuch the size of a hazel-nut, mechanically impeding the free movements of the IMs. They are situated in the thickness of the tarsal cartilage, and are composed of a cyst, filled ivith a tough, gelatinous substance. How and then, with more acute inflammation, the contents are somewhat purulent. This tumor is generally called chalazion^ and requires surgical treatment. One method is to evert the lid, find the thinned point, and puncture through the conjunc- tiva. The incision is usually made perpendicularly to the free edge of the lid, and the contents are scooped out. If the cyst he rudely torn in this process, in various directions, complete obliteration from adhesive inflamma- tion will he more certainly secured. If the everted lid he firmly squeezed between the thumb and finger-nail, the contents and cyst wall will he more surely forced out. If this be thoroughly done, no cauterization of the sac will he needed. "Where the cyst-wall is thick and hard, and the growth presents itself con- spicuously under the skin, I much y)refer enucleation. This is done through