SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. 1081 arteries, and especially around tlie Malpighian bodies ; the renal epithelium was unchanged. Prognosis.—Though serious, the prognosis is not unfavorable as regards life, if proper treatment be employed in good time, unless, indeed, amyloid degeneration have taken [)lace. "Treatment.—The treatment consists, as in other forms of visceral syphilis, in the internal administration of iodide of potassium, alone or combined with the solution of bichloride of mercury (li(p hydrarg. pei’chloridi); from live to ten grains of iodide of potassium, with one drachm of the solution of the bichloride [containing grain] in a little bitter infusion, or in an ounce of water, three times a day, is a favorite form of mixture for constitutional syphilis. Amyloid Kidney.—Amyloid, waxy, or lardaceous degeneration of the kidney {leucomatosis) is one of the recognized forms of Bright’s disease. It is a chronic alfection caused by two classes of causes, viz., syphilis and sup- puration. Of the various causes of suppuration, phthisis and caries of bone are the two most prevalent forerunners and p]-odueers of amyloid kidne^v Amyloid degeneration of the kidney consists in a retrograde metamorphosis of the Malpighian bodies and small arteries, the glomeruli and arterioles becoming prominent and glistening; ultimately tlie basement membrane is affected, and transudation into the tubules takes place. Thus the a[»pear- ances of the kidney differ in different stages of the degeneration. In the first stage, the organ looks almost natural in size and color, and in relation to its capsule as well as on section ; but on the application of iodine or me- thylaniline, stained dots appear radiating from the base of the pyramids towards the capsule, and indicating the presence of degenerated glomeruli. In the second stage this degeneration is associated with secondary changes in the tubules, and the whole organ is enlarged, having a smooth, pale appearance on section, with cortical substance increased in thickness and of a dense consistence. Many of the tubules are blocked, and the application of iodine or methylaniline produces the characteristic reaction. In the third stage the kidney is atro})hicd, the cortical substance is relatively diminished, irregularly pitted on the surface, and of a yellowish-white, granular or sti’i- ated appearance. On applying iodine, there is but slight change in the cor- tex, but tlie apices of the papillaj give the reaction well marked—brown lines extending upwards along tlie pyramids. This arrangement of the pig- mentation is due to staining of vessels and tubules, whilst the absence of staining in the cortex is due to the breaking down of the lardaceous deposit, and to the destniction of many of the tubules. In none of the stages of amy- loid degeneration is the capsule adherent, but other diseases of the kidneys in which adherent capsules are found (as, for instance, syphilis) may be asso- ciated with the amyloid degeneration. The conditions in which the kidneys may be found, as a result of this affection, are simple amyloid degeneration, enlai’genient from transudation, and atroi>hy; these are the three stages indicated above. Pgrnptoms.—The commencement of this disease is gradual, and not marked by renal or urinary symptoms. Indeed, it may advance to a considerable extent, and yet not be discovered unless specially sought for. Mhen, how- ever, a patient with syphilis, phthisis, caries, necrosis, or any other cause of long-standing suppuration, passes a large quantity of light, limpid urine of low specific gravity, amyloid disease ofAhe kidney should l)e suspected. Tlie quantity of albumen contained in the urine is at first small, but it increases Avith the disease until at length one-fifth, onc-tliird, or one-half albumen is present. In the later stages, hyaline casts are found. The urea and other