821 PARACENTESIS OF THE PERICARDIUM. reactive inflanTination, with considerable infiltration, the surrounding parts are thrown into suppuration, with the formation of abscess and gangrene. It may also be found to occur from severe contusions of the thorax, for instance, injuries of the shoulder. The elasticity of the chest-wall allows the contusion to act on the lung, and thus to produce effusion of blood followed by gangrenous sloughs.^ I have already quoted a remarkable case of this kind in connection with contusions of the chest. Paracentesis of the Pericardium. In searching the annals of surgery to discover the relationship of this ope- ration to the subject of injuries of the thorax, the student is forced hack to the case of Larrey,^ for he will fail to find instances in which the operation has been resorted to for the effects of injury since his time ; before that period the records of the operation are still fewer—certainly they are silent in relation to Avounds. Trousseau,^ who of all ancient or modern Avriters is tlie exponent of the ope- ration, singularly denies a place to the record of Larrey, declaring that both his case and that of PesaulP are “ cases of alleged paracentesis of the peri- cardium, both originating in errors of diagnosis.” While I freely admit that Desault’s case Avas a failure in both diagnosis and result, altliough it indicates the mode of operation most clearly, I deny that Larrey’s case is to be so classed. To him it appears that Ave must attribute the first operation of paracentesis pericardii—certaiidy the first, it may be the only one, for effu- sion the result of wound. It is strange that Trousseau should tell us that Larrey recommended an opening betAveen the edge of the ensiform car- tilage and the cartilage of the eighth rib on the left side, a statement approved by Le Fort, and current to-day in the Cyclopiedia of Ziemssen, while we find Larrey himself telling us :®— “ .J’incisai d’abord la peau et le tissu cellulaire de I’espace intercostal de la cinqui- eme a la sixieme cote au-dessous du mameloii et sur le bord inferieur du pectoral; je coupai par couches, et parallelement a la direction des cotes, les muscles intercostaux. Parvenu a la plevre costale, je moddrai faction du bistouri, pour ne pas depasser cette deniiere cloison, si le cmur en avait ete tres [>res.”® Such are the Avords of Larrey, and yet Ave find Trousseau asserting that “ Larrey believed that it was easier and more convenient to make the p)unc- ture between the edge of the ensiform cartilage and the cartilage of the eighth rib on the left side.” In his operation. Trousseau adopts the phin formulated by Desault and Larrey, varying the intercostal space only, hut making no mention of either of these Avriters Avliose method ho adopts. Xext he considers the operation of Aran, performed Avith a capillary trocar; this method, though successful in the particular case AAdiich he<piotes,he con- demns as entailing too great risks. As far as the operation and its details are concerned, we have not advanced in tliese days; certainly in relation to trau- matic pericarditis, the question remains as Larrey left it. The American Avar ' Hertz, Ziemssen’s Cyclopasdia, vol. v. page 412. 2 Meinoires de Cliirurgie Militaire, t. iii. p. 458. ^ Lectures on Clinioal Medicine, New Sydenham Society’s Translation, vol. iii. page 364. * (Envres Chirurgicales, t. i. p. 304. 5 Qp_ tome iii. p. 466. ® [[ divided first the skin and cellular tissue of the intercostal space from the fifth to the sixth rib, below the nipple and along the lower border of the peotoralis ; I cut the intercostal muscles layer by layer, and in a direction parallel to the ribs. Having reached the costal pleura, I checked the action of the bistoury, so as not to get beyond that last partition, if the heart had been very near it.]