HERNIA. 1172 opening was divided, and the intestine returned. This bold and thoroughly scientific proceeding was fortunately successful in saving the patient. The saphena vein was wounded accidentally, and tied. For a hernia of this kind, a truss like that for crural liernia, but with a longer and more depressed spring, should be tried. In a case giving great trouble and endangering strangulation, an operiition for the radical cure— removing the sac, and closing its neck and the hernial opening hv the ap})li- cation of a strong, carbolized tendon-ligature—would be admissible on the principles already laid down. IscniATic Hernia. This variety of hernia is still more rare. An obscure and small tumor felt under tlie gluteus muscle, with local pain, tenderness, and symptoms of intestinal obstruction or strangulation, would justify an exploratory operation under antise|dic [irecautions, division of the sti-angulation, ablation of the sac, and closure of the opening by tying its neck in the way above described. From the position of such a hernia, it is not likely that any form of truss- pressure could be successfully maintained. Perineal, Vaginal, and Pudendal Herni.®. Perineal hernia comes down between the bladder and rectum, -with a sac of peritoneum, through an opening in the pelvic fascia and the libres of the levator ani, forming a tumor with the characteristics of hernia, in front or to the side of the anus. A truss ma}- be adapted for this on the same principle as that made by the instrument-makers for supporting piles or pro- lapsus of the rectum. Vaginal and pudendal herni/e are varieties of the preceding, projecting into the vagina or pudendum in females. The pudendal must be distinguished from the labial variety of inguinal hernia, in females, Avhich is the homologue of the scrotal variety in the male, and which is more commonly found than the one under consideration. The absence of any protrusion in the inguinal canal, or in the upper part of the labium, in the latter, affords an easj' means of diagnosis between the two, taken together with the presence of a tumor at the side of the vagina. When strangulated, these forms of hernia will be made more detectable by local tenderness and pain, as well as by the general symptoms. They should be reduced by pressure with the lingers on the vulva, and also, if necessary, through the vagina and i-ectum, with the patient in the recumbent position, and the pelvis elevated on pillows. They may be kept up by the use of a vaginal, elastic-ball pessary, combined, if necessary, with a spring perineal truss. Diaphragmatic Hernia. Diaphragmatic hernia may occur from a wmund b}' a lance, spear, sabre, or gunshot-missile, passing oblirpiely through the peritoneal cavity into the }»ericardium or pleiu’a; or b}" separation of the fibres of the diaphragm, or dilatation of the oesophageal opening, by violent pressure, such as that of a cart-wheel x>GSsing over the abdomen, or a heavy body falling upon it. The latter accidents usually result in ]-upture of the liver, spleen, or other