705 CROUP AND DIPHTHERIA. cannot reach the pulmonary vesicles in cpiantity sutlicient to maintain the interchange essential to due ha?matosis. This form of apnoea is regarded by many as a contra-indication to tracheotomy, althougli the operation has occasionally saved life even when the symptoms have been at tlieir Avorst. Tlie other set of symptoms attends more rapid sutfocation, Avith paroxysmal apnoea. The agitation is great; orthopncea is marked; the struggles for breath are intense; the sub-thoracic tissues are deeply indented Avith each inspiration, and, at a later stage, the supra-sternal tissues likeAvise ; inspira- tion is noisy and stridulous ; the pulse is small and opiick ; the cervical veins are SAvollen; the face is turgid, flushed at first and subsecpiently cyanosed; the eyes are suflused and prominent; the skin is Avarm and moist; the mucous membranes are blue ; the vesicular murmur is faint or absent. The false mem- brane occupies the larynx, or the larynx and trachea. These cases are con- sidered favorable for tracheotomy; and on its perfoj’inance the morbid respiratory phenomena subside. TTie presence of pseudo-meDiljrane is not the only indication for operation. Whether false membrane be present or not, recurring spasmodic constriction of the glottis, or pai'alysis of the dilat- ing muscles, may threaten suflbcation, avertif)le only bj' traclieotomy. In a study made by me, in 1873,' of more than live thousand operations for croup and diphtheria, it became apparent that about one case in four recov- ered after tracheotomy, althougli several series of individual statistics pre- sented much more favorable results. Thus a fcAv meagre records ma}’ be ci.ted in Avhich all patients Avere saved—tAvo each I w Buck, Cabot, and Balassa ; and a numlier in Avhich more than one-half Avere saved, as the 6 out of 7 b}' Schoell- hammer; 3 out of 4 by Baudin ; 8 out of 11 by Cruickshank; 4 out oft! by Gerdy and Bardinet; 2 ontof 3 by Berrocbaud ; (3 out of 9 by Cheever ; 11 out of 17 by Von Kopl; 10 out of 16 by Bourdillat; 3 out of 5 by Moynier; 5 out of 9 liy Betel and by Bichet; and 13 out of 23 by Calvet. The flgures are reproduced to shoAv that combinations of circumstances may produce unusually good results, and that no hard and fast rule can be deduced from mere statistics. A favorable age in the patient, a judicious selection of eases, a happy recognition of the proper moment for sui’gieal interference, skilful operation and assiduous attention afterwards, may have formed the combination productive of this exceptional experience. There is no reason to believe tliat any of these tracheotomies Avere needlessly performed, or that unusual success was due to luck. The proportions of recoveries at the hands of these operators may have been increased by subsequent operations. IMost likely they have l)een diminished ; as seA'eral series have had to be dro}qied from my original list” for this cause. Indeed, personal inquiry has convinced me that particularly brilliant series of successes are rarely maintained for long terms of years. Thus an enthusi- astic advocate of the operation in I’hiladelpliia, Avho bad saved three out of the four children upon Avbom he had })erfornied the operation uj) to tlie time alluded to, informed me a fcAv years aftenvards that he had done seven tra- cheotomies since then, and had lost every case. Ills successes had fallen from 3 in 4, to 3 in 11. A physician in Aew York, the statistics of aa Iiosc operations Avere presented Avith a record of 13 successes out of 67 operations, told me, some yeai’S ago, that after his record had been published he had done more than one hundred unsuccessful operations before be had been aide to add another recovery, llis successes, then, wore temporarily reduced from 13 in 67, to 13 in 167. These illustrations are mentioned, not in discouragement of the operation, but in deprecation of extraAuigant claims for it. ’ Croup, in its relations to Tracheotomy. Phila(tel])hia, 1874. VOL. V.—45 2 Op. cit., p. 26.