HERNIA. 1124 varicocele ; or a pelvic abscess. In that of crural hernia, the tumor may be an enlarged, and, perhaps, intlamed gland; and this last is, from the local ]>ain and tenderness, and from the constipation and sickness frequently coex- istent, the most perplexing to the surgeon. Or here we may have also a cyst, an abscess (psoas), a tatty tumor, or a varicose enlargement of the femoral oi’ saptbena vein, or one of their branches. In cases of other varieties of hernia, especially in the umbilical, a fatty tumor or an abscess may simulate hernia by its impulse on coughing, or l)y its general ap)pearance and feel. A sarcomatous, or other tumor may also present some appearance of ruptui-e. Measures of relief should be adopted without loss of time. When a rup- ture is found, the indications are to return the strangulated parts into the abdomen by manipulation, if possible, aided by other secondary measures. If this is not successful after a fair trial, then the tumor must be operated on. Moreovei’, in eases in which the peculiarity of the symptoms leads to a strong doubt as to the nature of a tumor, an exploratory operation under the Spray should be resorted to, to make quite certain that the patient either can or cannot be saved. The term taxis is a Greek word aiqdied to the proceedings of manipulation. The taxis should be employed with the least force and the greatest gentle- ness possible: much damage may be done by misdirected, hurried, or vio- lent etforts. It should be gentle, Init tirm and persistent. If the rupture be large enough, tlie fundus of the tumor should be grasped by one hand and gently squeezed, to pn’ess out the blood from the engorged vessels, any serum Avhich may be in the sac, and the fluid or gaseous contents of the bowel which may be piesent. The Anger and thumb of the other band should then be ap})lied to the neck of the sac, and kneaded gently all around with the object of returning tliose p)arts which lie in the orifice, and which were the last to come down. If the rupture be small, the points of the fingers onl}^ can be used, and the skill to use these successfully lies in a combination of grasping, pressing, and kneading motions, which can only be acquired by long experi- ence. Tlie direction of the force applied should be that of the protrusion above the most superficial hernial opening, and varies with the kind of hernia, as will be seen in considering the anatomical details of the various special kinds of rupture. Tlie first hopeful result is usually a diminution in the total size of the tumor, a feeling of motion in the interior, and a sliglit gurgling croak, indi- cating the movement of the contained gases if bowel be present. The kneading motion and the compressing force must then be kept steadily applied, and the rupture-tumor, if containing bowel, will usually suddenly disappear into the abdomen. If omentum be [)resent in any amount, its complete reduction is somewhat slower and more gi’adual, and there may be a little difiiculty in passing iqi the wliole of it if it be lumpy. Or a portion may be adherent and irreducible, although the return of the more vital intestine niay have placed the patient in safety. The i>osition of the patient during the taxis should be recumbent, with the shoulders low, the hips raised, and the knees bent up to the body and as close together as may be convenient to the operator, who stands on the aftected side of the patient, with one hand and arm between bis knees in cases of inguinal and femoral, or obturator rn])ture. In cases of difiiculty, the patient should be placed during the continuance of the taxis, moi’e or loss in an inverted position. This is best and most quickly accomplished by drawing the patient, with the upper }>art of the mattress, bed, and bedding, oil’ the side of the bedstead, and placing them on a low stool or upon the floor, keeping the patient’s hi})s on the side of the bedstead with the knees still drawn u}). The efiect upon the bowel and omentum is to allow