INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. 81 of the brain at their periphery,^ until they either hy pressure^ induce fatal trouble, or by bursting into the ventricles rapidly destroy life.^ In some few cases the surrounding proliferating neuroglia is finally organized into a firm sac-wall, and the disease remains stationary for a time, but only station- ary—not cured.^ In a few of these cases, post-mortem appearances would seem to indicate that caseation of the contents of a former brain-abscess had taken place, and that recovery l)y partial or complete absorption was therefore possible. Such an occurrence must be exceedingly rare, and I doubt if it ever takes place in traumatic cases, where the suiTOunding cere- bral substance, instead of being condensed, is more apt to be softened. Sooner or later, such quiescent abscesses will terminate life, and that, too, very suddenl}" in most cases. A still further study of the natural history of cerebral abscess Avill give us, I think, some valuable tlierapeutic hints. Among the greatest of surgical rarities is the spontaneous evacuation of a cerebral abscess, either through the nares, orbit, or external auditory meatus.® This can only take place Avhen tlie suppurating cavity lies near such portions of the skull as the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the roof of the orbit, or the tegmen tympani. Sucli Avas the case in a patient AAdio aanis under tlie care of Mr. C. IlaAvkins, and an abstract of Avliose history I here subjoin;— A man twenty-eiglit years of age, three weeks before his admission into hospital, struck his liead violently against the edge of a door, producing a small wound on the right side of the forehead, Avith much ecchymosis, witli but little external hemorrhage. There was intense pain at the seat of the blow. A week afterwards, headache and deli- rium came on. A discharge from the left ear of many years’ duration, which had before stopped running from time to time, when marked deafness was always noticed, now ceased. The pulse was frequent and weak, but thei’e was no more pain upon the left side of the head than upon the riglit side. Two days subsecjnently the pulse was “ laboring” (I presume slow and full). The [)atient became comatose, and died the next day. After death, an abscess with softened, ragged walls was found in the left anterior and middle lobes of the cerebrum, containing about three ounces of pus. The dura mater was adhe- rent to the roof of the tympanum, and through the necrosed bone a small probe could be passed into tlie middle ear, which showed evidences of chronic otitis with destruction of the membrana tympani.® This abscess was clearly secoudary to the old otitis, and the bloAV- probably set up active disease in the adherent and diseased dura mater overlying the chronically inflamed middle ear. Other similar cases, Avhere recovery has ensued, might be quoted if it Avere necessary, to demonstrate that nature can and does successfully evacuate cerebral abscesses.^ The next link in my chain of argument is, tliat after an unsuccessful attempt had been made to discover pus in certain cases, and Avhen the trephine had reA^ealed a healtliy, non-bulg- ing, pulsatile condition of the dura mater, this membrane Avas nevertheless * By a rapidly progressing yellow softening in many instances. 2 Acute cedenia of the brain is frequently tlie immediate cause of death. Chronic internal hydrocephalus is common in cerebellar abscess, whenever it tends to lessen the cavity of the fourth'yentricle, or to compress the aqueduct of Sylvius. (See Ziemssen’s Cyclopiedia of Practical Medicine, vol. xii.) ^ Abscesses’situated in the middle of the parietal and frontal lobes open usually into the ven- tricles. Those of the middle lobe may open at the base of the brain, giving rise to a most fatal form of meningitis. '* Meyer (Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, vol. xii.) has shown that, although as reported by Lallemand, a capsuled brain-abscess may be met with as early as the thirteenth day, a distinct abscess-wall is upon the average not seen before seven weeks. ® Perforation through the orbit, the temporal bone, and other portions of the skull-bones, after agglutination of tlie membranes, has been reported. If adhesions do not form, a widespread fatal meningitis is apt to occur when nature strives to spontaneously evacuate these abscesses. ® London Medical Gazette, First series, vol. xvii. p. 15(1. ’ Tassi, Proceedings of the Royal Academy of Medicine of Romo, quoted in the Lancet, April 26, 1884; Hawkins, loc. cit., p. 162. VOL. V.—6