INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 978 tliem ; consequently the ileum is most frequent!}^ aftected in this "way, though the large jntestine is very often involved as a result of traumatic lesion. Causes.—First and chief amongst the causes of false anus is hernia, neglected and operated upon too late, or not operated upon at all; thus by gangrene or ulceration, or by either of these processes combined with fecal abscess, the larger proportion of the cases seen in civil lu’actice are formed. Second, Imt much more rare in civil life, though by no means infrequent in warfare, come contused, incised, lacerated, and gunshot wounds. Third, foreign bodies arrested in the intestine lead to adhesions and perforations, followed by fecal abscess, and this in turn by either a fecal fistula or a false anus. Fourth, abscess, whether commencing in the parietes and involv- ing the intestine secondarily, or commencing in ulceration of the intestinal mucous membrane, and subsequently implicating the parietes. Fifth, false anus may be congenital, the result of some error of development. It is then usually situated at the umbilicus, or lower down in the linea alba. The openings in some of these congenital cases are so small, the amount of intes- tinal contents which passes through them so insignificant, and the conse- quent distension so considerable and fatal, that fecal fistula, not false anus, is the proper name for them. Sixth, Jobert alludes to a fatal case of false anus, caused by a surgeon who mistook a fecal accumulation for an abscess, and plunged a bistoury into the swelling. The whole or any part of the circumference of the bowel may be severed by the injury or disease which causes the false anus. Upon the extent of the lesion depend both the gravity of the case and the nature of the treatment to be adopted. Pathological Anatomy.—The external orifice varies much in size and ap- pearance. It is usually single (Fig. 111b), but may be double (Fig. 1117), and has been described as cribriform or sieve-like. Dupuytren observes:— Fig. lllo. Fig. 1117. Intestinal fistula from Bnpuytren’s collection, a, upper part of intestine : aperture of tlio same ; c, lower portion of intestine ; d, projecting valve closing entrance to lower portion of intestine. (After Teale.) Intestinal fistula from Dupuytren’s collection, a, upper portion of intestine; 6, lower portion; c, aper- ture of lower portion ; dy aperture of upper portion. (After Teale.) The opening, in whatever way occasioned, is almost always roundish, but sometimes of an irregulai”shape. Its diameters vary from a few lines to an inch or more. In the