SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. 1087 The lUagnosis has to be made, first as to the seat of the tumor, secondly as to its i)recise nature. The exact locality of the tumor when first seen, its direction of increase, and the line of surrounding dulness or resonance on percussion, will help to fix the renal origin of the swelling, as distinct from an origin in the liver, spleen, or ovaiy. But errors in this respect are some- times "unavoidable, and I have found, on post-mortem examination, a large cancer in the kidney of a man who had been supposed by some most capable diagnosticians to be the suljject of a livei’-growth. Similar errors as to the spleen, when the left kidney has been the seat of cancer, are on record. The rapidity of growth of the tumor, its unecpial resistance and nodular outline, and the progressively cachectic aspect of the patient, point to cancer; and when a swelling, which has begun on one side of the abdomen and in the renal region of a person either below the age of five or over that of sixty years, rapidly attains a very large size, its cancerous nature may be diagnosed with fair certainty. Wlietlier in children or adults, it is a common thing for these tumors to reach a weight of eight or nine pounds, and upwards. From enlarged mesenteric glands, renal cancer is distinguished by its one- sided position and less nodular outline; from cancer of the colon or small intestine, by the absence of characteristic intestinal sym})toms. The as})irating needle will furnish negative evidence, and will show that the tumor is due to one of the forms of solid growth, as distinct from cystic. It can do no more. The progress of cancer of the kidney is very rapid ; from eight or nine months, to one or two years, according to the situation in which tlie growth lias originated, is the usual duration of life after the commence- ment of the disease. Treatment.—This can only lie palliative in the middle and later periods of the disease. In the very early stage, could the growth be recognized then, ne[directomy would seem to otfer a jirospect of postponing the fatal result, perhaps even of considerably prolonging life. tSm'coraa. sometimes forms in the kidney, and attains a formidable size, though it is also met with of a size not larger than a walnut. In one si)cci- rnen in the Middlesex llos})ital Museum, such a growth occupies the renal pelvis, together with a large, liranched calculus; but the kidney is not at all increased in dimensions. When of large size, renal sai’coma resembles carci- noma clinically. Rhabdomyoma.—Cases of renal tumor of probably congenital oilgin, and composed of striped muscle and sarcoma-tissue, have been recently recorded by German and English }iathologists. These tumors have been removed after <leath from infants of fiT)m six to eighteen months old. In some instances there has been a tumor of each kidney; in some all vestige of normal kidnc}^- structure has been destroyed; in others the tumor has lain beneath the renal cajisule upon the surface of the kidney.' Tumors of the supra-renal capsule occasionally occur, and though, as a rule, they are too small to give rise to abdominal swelling, they sometimes are of consiilerable size. They are not usually associated with any marked, still less with any characteristic, symptoms. Wilks and Moxon j’ecord a case of primary sarcoma of each supra-renal liody. Each capsule was greatly enlarged, and of the size of a foetal head of fidl term. i’riniary cancer of these organs is very rare, but cancer of the supra-renal ca})sules, as ]iart of a general cancerous infection, is by no means so. Aver- beck has collected forty-three cases. Melanotic sarcomata, malignant blood ’ For a full accnnnt of some of these tumors, the reader is referred to Trans. Path. Soc, Loud., vol. xxxiii. pp. 312, ct scq.