INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 102 operated upon. "Wherever similar expedients seem indicated they should therefore he tried, if depressed bone be not manifestly the exciting cause. With Ml’. Walsham, I woidd add, as to doubtful cases where the indications are not clear, that with the fact before us that, in many eases where the history of an injury has been obscure, or where no history whatever has been obtained, or where the only local indication has been a sensitive, painful, or even a tender spot without any evidence of depression or inequality of bone, patients have been rescued from a miserable existence and restored to one of health and comfort, “ I think we may go further, and say that even with such slight indications the ti’ephine ought to be used ; and holding as I do that the operation is one in itself not attended, when the membranes are not wounded, with much danger, I would give the patient the benefit of the doubt, and Avould myself press the operation.”^ What if at the operation nothing be found ? Wait for some months, and then, if no improvement take place, the operation may be repeated near tbe site of the first, rememlx?ring that in one case mentioned, an undetected fragment of the inner table was found, after death, to be the cause of the disease. As to the operation itself. Prof. Briggs, whose experience is greater than that of any other operator in this country, points out that, to be successful, all the thickened and diseased bone should be removed. In one of his cases he successfull}’ cut out six large buttons of bone with the intervening osseous tissue. Prof. Briggs also calls attention to tlie ver}’ im- portant fact that after removal of the bone, we should still watch the case, lest some other source of peripheral irritation should arise, such as a painful cica- trix, which would then require excision. One of the sources of failure in operations for epilepsy, is the neglect of after-treatment, medical as well as surgical. The operation indeed removes the most important cause of the epilepsy, but only one cause. The disturbed circulation in the nervous centres, and the excessive mobility of the nervous system, can only disappear with time; and if all other sources of peripheral irritation are not most carefully guarded against, the patient may be slightly if at all benetited, whereas judicious after-treatment will sometimes relieve an apparent operative failure. Injuries of the Cranial N'erves. As a consequence of head injury, one or more of the cranial nerves may have its functions suppressed, either temporarily or permanently. This may result from various causes: (1) the nerve may be divided by the vulnerating body, as in thrust-wounds of the orbit or nose, or in penetrating bullet-wounds of the head; (2) by laceration of the brain-tissue, the nerve may be torn from its centre ; (3) it may be torn across by the fissure of a basal fracture, travers- ing the foramen through which it passes out of the cranium, or the bony cmial in which it lies; (4) it may be compressed by displaced fragments of bone ; (o) it may be compressed by blood, either etfused into its sheath, or along its course through the skull; (6) the deep origin of the nerve may be destroyed or compressed by effusion, either hemorrhagic or inflammatory. The olfactoi-y, optic, and orbital nerves, are those most frequently lacerated by thrust-wounds, etc. Injuries from such a cause are rare. Owing to the frequency with which the petrous portion of the temporal bone is involved in fractures, injuries of the facial and auditory nerves are of common occur- rence. • Palsies of these nerves in undoubted fractures of the petrous bone do not always appear at first, nor are they persistent, which shows that they are by no means certain signs of a basal fracture. When loss of function is 1 Walsham, loc. cit., p. 143.