250 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. to see that he does not hurt the eye. In a week or ten days the bandage may be removed, and a double compress be hung over the eyes, or a broad shade substitutecl. The room should be kept comfortably dark for some days after the operation, and the eye gradually accustomed to light. If all goes well, the patient may leave his room in about two weeks. If now a three and one-half inch lens improves the vision greatly, a good result is almost certain. There are some troublesome accidents which no amount of experience and skill can always avoid. One of these is obstinate hemorrhage into the chamber, causing great dithculty in dividing the capsule, and perhaps preventing im- mediate vision. If the blood gathers in the chamber before the capsule has been opened, it may perhaps be coaxed out by a few sti’okes of the moistened curette. If not, the capsulotomy must be made by guess, carefully avoiding injury to the iris. If the chamber fills with blood after the exit of the lens, it will perhaps escape with the lens fragments under the sliding movement. If not, it can be safely left to the absorbents. Loss of vitreous before the escape of the lens is a very serious disaster, as it necessarily displaces the lens and makes its removal extremely precarious. A slight loss of vitreous following the lens, or in the sliding manoeuvre to clear the chamber, is not so serious. Still, such loss always increases tlie immediate and remote risks. "When the cataract is hypermature, or the incision too small, or hoih.^ i\\Q jyt'osentation may not be prompt. If this be due to the smallness of the section, that must be enlarged with the knife or the iris scissors, a procedure requiring great coolness and skill. Should the incision be free enough, and should the edge of the lens yet not come forward and open the wound, on moderate pressure with the scoop, the cystotome may be lightly passed in, its edge well forward, and drawn along the wound so as to divide the anterior capsule freely along the lens margin. Then the same pressure will eliminate it without serious trouble. If swppurative reaction comes on in twenty-four hours after an extraction, tlie eye will generally be totally lost. A milder reaction, at a later period, always protracts the cure, and generally leads to a membranous formation in the pupil, with imperfect vision. The suppuration begins in the corneal wound, at either end or in the middle, and thence proceeds to the iris and even the ciliary body. Careful springing of the incision once or twice a day, the free use of boracic-acid solution in the eye, the instillation of atropia two or three times a day, and tlie application of cold compresses externally, seem to be the best means of checking this sad process. In veiy old or feeble patients, warm fomentations or poultices do better than cold. Such cases, at best, end in closed piqiil and a retracted cicatrix. In the worst forms, shrinking of the eyeball and even sympathetic danger to the fellow eye, may be the result. There is a well-grounded fear of sympathetic ophthalmia following the origi- nal operation of Von Graefe, where the section is made in the anterior part of the sclera, close to the i)eriphery of the iris. The nearness of such a wound to the dangerous ciliary region, leads to greater risk of c^’clitis and consequent sympathetic inflammation. Experience has led most operators to deviate from the classic method, and to make the incision at the base of the clear cornea, or even further forwards. There is a popidar impression that even after the most perfect success the cataract may return. This belief is based on the fact that sometimes the sight fails again in a year or two, very seriously. For exanqile, with a vision of one-half, and the ability to read the finest print with ease, a mist slowly comes over the eye till the patient can only see to walk. This gradual clouding of sight is explained when the pupil is inspected by the ophthalmo- scope, and by oblique illumination. A thin, grayish, filmy membrane is seen covering the originally clear pupil. This is not a reprotluction ot the