455 KHINOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. ligatures—the flap is lightly twisted upon its root and adjusted in its new position, being secured with numerous points of the interrupted or shotted suture, or with the ingenious “ tongue-and-groove suture” recommended for the purpose by the late Prof. Joseph Pancoast, of Philadelphia, who had great success in rhinoplastic operations. The flap should be supported by gently introducing below it a plug of oiled lint, or two small plugs, one on either side of the colunma, if there be one, and a fold of oiled lint may be lightly laid over the part, to assist in preserving its temperature. The wound on the forehead may be partly closed with harelip pins and adhesive strips, but must be mostly left to heal by granulation. The patient, after the operation, should be put to bed in a warm room; the dressings should not be disturbed for several days, when it will probably be necessary to remove the plug and introduce a new one; the sutures should remain until firm union has taken place. The second stage of the Indian method consists in forming a colunma from the upper lip, if one has not already been made from the forehead. This may be done, in the way heretofore described, either at the time of, or two or three weeks after, tlie former o})eration. As has been mentioned. Prof. Pennett thinks it better to dispense with tlie colunma altogether. The third, and final stage consists in separating the root of the frontal flap, which should not be done until at least a month after the first o})eration. A narrow bistoury is thrust beneath the pedicle, and made to cut its way up- wards, removing a wedge-shaped portion so as to give a smooth bridge to the nose; or Fergusson’s plan may be adopted, the root of the new nose itself being cut into a wedge, and laid into a groove made for it in the forehead. The size of the opening or openings left for the admission of air, must be maintained by the patient’s wearing, for several months, a tube or tubes of silver or gutta-percha. The results of the Indian operation are commonly quite satisfactory, though failure may ensue from the flap sloughing, or from a recurrence of the disease which rendered the operation necessary. In one of Liston’s cases, secondary hemorrhage followed on the ninth day, and death even has resulted, in the practice of a no less distinguished 0])erator than Dietfenbach. Syme’s Method.—Tins mode of operating, which was introduced by the late Prof. Syme, of Edinburgh, aims to utilize the tissues of the cheeks, from which flaps are taken, and united in the median line by sutures, Avhile their outer edges are attached to raw surfaces which have been ]irevi(nisly prepared at a suitable distance from the nostrils. The nose made by this method is apt to be rather flat, to prevent which it might be well to keep it pressed forward, until the occurrence of uinon, by fastening the sides together with steel-pointed silver needles, in the way already described in speaking of the treatment of depressed nose. Wood’s Method.—Prof. John Wood, of King’s College, London, following ill the same lines as in his ingenious ojieration for extroverted bladder, em- ploys an inverted flap, taken from the upper lip and elongated by sejiarating its mucous from its cutaneous surface, from the root of the flap to, but not through, its free border, and then covers this with lateral flaps deriveil from the cheeks. Ollier’s Method.—Prof. Ollier, of Lyons, likewise employs an inverted fla[i, but taken from the forehead and made to include the periosteum,-and covers it with side flaps taken by preference from the stump of the nose.