DIAGNOSIS OF OCULAR AFFECTIONS WITHOUT THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 187 your command. Whether it is a disease rec[uiring treatment, or an optical defect demanding assistance from glasses, can only be settled by an expert examination. These asthenopic troubles that give the surgeon and the patient so much anxiety, depending as they do upon so many dilterent causes, cannot he fully investigated or satisfactorily treated l»y the general surgeon. ITxtients sometimes apply for advice about the alleged sudden failure of the sight in one eye. It has usually been discovered by the merest accident. The ^Mxtient insists that he retired with two good eyes, and arose with one blind. How do you know that the ^xatieut is mistaken ? If he has a matured cataract, or confirmed glaucoma, or old alterations of the cornea, none of these could have developed in so short a time. If tliere is strabismus confined to the defective eye, it cannot be of sudden origin. If the had sight dates from childhood, or has come on vei-y slowly, without pain, infiarnmation, or any unusual subjective symptom, it often jiasses unnoticed, till by some mere accident the patient is led to try the two eyes separately. If some confusion of vision, pain, or other uncommon worriment, such as Hashes of light, glim- mering, etc., have prompted him to tlie test of the two eyes, the difliculty is ])robably recent, and needs immediate intelligent attention. The previous history and habits of the patient as to shooting, and with which eye and what success, may also assist in clearing up the date of the difiiculty. Has the eye ever been injured, and, if so, in Avhat way and when? Has he ever used an opera glass with satisfaction ? Without binocular vision that instru- ment is of little benetit. If the defect is very old, particularly if congenital, the oplithalmoscope, even in expert hands, is often sinpily negative in its find- ings. Hut when the lesion is serious and of recent date, it is often (|uite pos- sible to make a fair diagnosis without the instrument. kSupjiose the patient to have had good eyes till (|uite lately. All at once he sees Hashes of light, glim- mering, trembling in the air like heat, and confusion of sight. He tries se}>a- rately, and finds which eye is at fault. These troubles continue, with varia- tions, for a few days. Then he discovers a dark curtain drawing in front of the eye. It passes across from one side to the other, cutting ofi:' all sight except perhaps in one oblicpie direction. With this significant description, you ask him to close the eye gently. You ]»lace the two index fingers on the ball and find its tension much reduced. The fatal diagnosis is Jetnclnmnt of the retina. If the patient has long been very near-sighed, this conclusion is greatly strengthened. Again, there may have been great and sudden failure in one eye, perhaps without any premonitions, or these may have lieen very brief. The patient is advanced in years, has often suffered from rheumatism, and actually has organic lesion of the heart. The arteries feel hard to the finger, indicative of atheromatous degeneration. While coughing, lifting, straining at stool, in a violent fit of anger, or even Avithout any s})ecial }>ro\u>cation, a large, red, ragged cloud comes before the eye. Here is a case of Itcrnorrhar/e into the vitreous., from bursting of an intra-ocular vessel, a very serious afiair for the eye, and still more grave as a prophetic indication of a similar accident to the brain. Spontaneous ru})ture, even of a subconjuuctiA'al vessel producing a blood-shot eye, is of no consequence in itself, except as it takes place in advanced years ; and then it means brittle arteries, and danger to the brain or other vital organ. Once more, you are consulted by a Avoman advanced in pregnancy. More or less rapid failure ot sight in one or both eyes has brought her to you. You find vision generally im])aired, especially in the direct line, by a central cloud or scotoma. Some })ain and photopsia have been felt and seen, but outAvardly the eyes apjicar normal. You sus[iect Bright's disease, and an analysis of the urine confirms your sus})icion. The patient has albuminuric