639 WOUNDS OF TUB LARYNX AND TRACHEA. ^ f»p. cit., Bd. iii. 1 ALtli. 3 Lief. S. 9tl. result would seem tlieoretically much more imminent, yet recover}- ensued in the four such instances noted in the Medical and Surgical History of the Wmr of the Kebellion. Simultaneous involvement of the pharynx and mso- phagus does not seem to add much gravity to the case. Contusions or lacerations of the pneumogastric nerve or of its divisions render the prog- nosis more unfavorable, on account of the resultant paralysis of the dilator muscles of the glottis, or spasm of its constrictors, with consequent dyspnoea or even apnoea. At a later date, tumefaction of the integument and of the mucous membrane, and extravasations of blood beneath the mucous mem- brane or in the loose connective tissue, may again threaten death by a})nma. In both incised and gunshot Avounds, hemorrhage, venous or arterial, may be quickly fatal either by inducing exhaustion or by sutfocation. As a rule, however, the bleeding soon ceases with syncope. A small amount of clotted lilood in the trachea is sufficient to produce sutfocation, if the patient is unable to eject it. Heath, immediate or gradual, may ensue, too, from entrance of air into a vein,^ an instance of which in a case of suicidal incised wound is alluded to by Stromeyer.^ After the immediate dangers have subsided, the result of suppuration may derange a favorable prognosis. Escape of mucus, pus, necrosed cartilage, food, or drink, into the air-passages, often occasions septic infection, usually manifested at hrst in broncho-pneumonia, and in rare instances proceeding to })ulmonary gangrene. In this manner a cheerful pros})ect is often ebanged into a gloomy one. Circumscribed abscesses may form about the suppurating edges of the wounds, or ditfuse ones may dissect the }ilanes of connective tissue down into the mediastina, and thus excite pleuritis, or compression of the bloodvessels and phlebitis. In some instances, too, more especially in gunshot injuries, perichondritis and necrosis of the cartilage takes place, and renders the prognosis still more duljious. Ilccovery takes place usually only after protracted treatment, in Avhich Aveeks upon Aveeks may be occupied. Gaj)S in the caidilage become repaired Avith fibro-cellular tissue, the irregular and ex})Osed edges having meamvhilo become necrosed and exfoliated, and tbe uninjured portions ossified, as is usual in intlammatory atfections generally. The tissue tilling the gap gradu- ally becomes tibro-cartilaginous, or actually cartilaginous. (AVitte, Fischer.) In some instances a ])ermanent fistula of the air-})assage remains, often small, but sometimes quite large—after extensive injuries or great loss of substance— huge gaps exposing the epiglottis, the pharynx, and even the ph ary n go-pa la- tine folds. Albers, cited I)y Fischer,^ describes and illustrates one. an inch l)road and two inches long. In some instances, either fungous or cicatricial stenosis of the larynx or trachea takes place during recovery, or after it. In the one case, the excessive granulations, or the exuberant tissue, may be destroyed by cauterization, excision, or evulsion. In tbe other, the perma- nent use of the tracheotomy-tube is usually required. Attempts to excise or otherwise destroy the obstructive cicatricial tissue are rarely of service ; Avbile s}"stematic dilatation is hardly more promising. Eecontraction usually takes place on the suspension of the manipulations. A cicatricial membranous Aveb sometimes forms across the larynx at the seat of the Avound, a variety of stenosis said to be quite common.^ Similar stenosis of tlie trachea is a very rare sequel. (AVitte.) rermanent thickening of the cartilages is likeAvise a frequent result. The dysphonia, or even the aphonia, Avhich acconq)anies these injuries, is sometimes permanent. Hi[»lophonia, or sudden change of ' Dm-]]am, op. cit., vol. i. p. (187. ^ Mackenzie, op. cit., p. 409. 2 Op. cit., Bd. ii. S. 310.