FRACTURES OF THE TEMPORAL BONE. 349 not often come under the observation of the aural surgeon, and the medical man tirst called to see the case probably never thinks of making an examin- ation (with the speculum and reflected light) of the external auditory canal and drum-membrane. Hence our supply of facts with regard to the lesions demonstrable during life in the temporal bone of a person who is believed to have a fracture at the base of the skull, is very scanty. It is sufficient, how- ever, to justify the following deductions. Fractures of the temporal bone may be subdivided into two classes:— 1. Fracture or diastasis of the tympanic or squamous portion, in the region of the middle ear, without implication of the pars petrosa. 2. Fracture of both the tympanic and the petrous portions. Both of these kinds of fmcture are produced, not l)y direct violence to the parts, but by contrecoup ; that is, the patient, in falling, strikes upon the back or the top of his head, while the fracture occurs at the base of the skull. In the flrst variety, the line or lines of fracture corres})ond with the lines of union of the three bony portions which together form the temporal bone, an<I which in foetal life represent separate centres of growth, viz., the squamous portion (together with the zygoma), the tympanic portion (annulus tyrnpau- icus), and the petrous portion (together with the mastoid process). Tliese fractures, therefore, partake somewhat of the nature of diastases. In the second variety, the fracture of the petrous portion of the temporal bone repre- sents a genuine fracture. It takes place in the middle part of the bone, where it is greatly weakened by the presence of several large cavities (the meatus auditorius internus, the cochlea, the vestibule, and the semicircular canals), which are separated one from another by conq)arativcly thin parti- tions of bone. While it is possible that a fracture may take place in the ])ctrous portion of the temporal bone witliout a contemporaneous fracture or diastasis in the adjacent squamous or tympanic portion, we possess no facts as yet which will justify such a belief. In fact, the general surgeon is not in the habit of recognizing even two subdivisions, such as I have here made. Xow I am satisfied that these subdivisions are by no means fanciful, but rather the reverse: they are eminently })ractical. Let me illustrate. A jier- son falls or receives a blow upon the head. Bleeding from the ear follows, and may even be copious in amount. lie is unable to hear the ticking of a watch in the atfected ear, and, when the good ear is closed, he finds difficulty in distinguishing sj)oken words. The general surgeon, if he make the attempt to locate the fracture without resorting to an examination of the ear, will be very likely to make this diagnosis: fractui’e of the temporal bone through its petrous portion ; a diagnosis wliich almost necessailly implies tlie permanent loss of the hearing of the corresponding ear. On the othei’ hand, an examination of the ear with the speculum and reflected light might show a fracture running along the (Ilaserian fissure, and a tympanic cavity tilled with blood. By aid of tlie tuning-fork, the fact might also be learned that the sonorous vibrations of this instrument were heard best in the affected ear. The diagnosis would then have to be made of a IVacture involving the squamous and tympanic portions, and not the petrous; and the patient could pro})orly be encouraged to hope for a partial, if not a complete, restoration of the hearing. Furthermore, the knowledge gained by such an examina- tion of the ear would be likely to materially modify the treatment that would otherwise be adopted. There are still other phenomena with regard to which the general surgeon is more than likely to form an erroneous opinion, if he do not fake advantage of the light which an exarni’rition of the ear is competent to afford him. I refer particularly to two synq)toms, viz., hemorrhage from the ear, and a watery discharge from the same region. In cases of fracture of the temporal