100 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. avoided in certain localities, and remembering that there is no such thing as an invariable rule in surgery. Sometimes Hey’s saw or the gouge-forceps can be with advantage substituted for the trephine. With these instruments, a projecting angle of bone may be removed, or a strip of bone sawn from an overhanging edge, so as to permit the introduction of the elevator and tlie restoration of depressed fragments to their normal level, or to allow their successful removal. The skullcap varies in thickness from one-fifth of an inch, upon the average, to as much as three-fourths of an inch at the occipital protuberance. In the young child, the diploe may be absent, whence great caution must be exer- cised in those rare cases in which the operation is recpiired in the very young.^ In the old, the bone is often much thinned by absorption. The advice of Holden is admirable; “ Think that you are operating on the thinnest skull ever seen, and thinner in one portion of the circle than the other.” The trephine-hole is usually closed by fibrous tissue, sometimes by fibro-cartilage, and, very rarely, by a more or less complete, thin plate of bone. Sometimes the bony margins thicken, forming a raised ring, while at other times they become thinner, and blend with an imperfect ring of osseous tissue which extends into the fibrous membrane, thus closing the opening to a varying extent. As an exceedingly rare secondary complication of trc]»hining, I would mention hemorrhage from the middle meningeal artery. Thus, Mr. Jackson reports a secondaiy and nnconti-ollable bleeding from this vessel, which required, six weeks after trephining, ligature of the carotid artery. The patient recovered.^ Trephining in Epilepsy.—Each case of this disease must be judged by itself. All that I shall attempt, therefore, will be to give the mortality and probability of success attendant upon operative interference, witli the indi- cations which have induced surgeons to trephine, in this condition. Causes: Lesions found in the Bone and Bara Mater.—The cause of tlie lesions inducing epilepsy has been in the majority of instances the application of great violence to the skull, but many times the reverse has been noted. When the result of great violence, the disease has usually been due to de- pressed bone-fragments. When the exciting cause has been a slight injury, the lesions usually observed have been chronic inflammation and thickening of the bone, leading perhaps to the formation of an exostosis. Einally, merely inflammation and thickening of the dura mater or pericranium have been the sole lesions detected in a number of cases. Sometimes the convulsions have been the result of a slight injury which has detached a small fragment of the inner table. “ AVhere mania, idiocy, or other form of mental deterioration occurred, the lesion may be said generally, to have existed in the anterior half-segment of the cranium ; where paralysis wns present, the parietal, wfith exception of Wm cases, w^as the part injured, the lesion, howmve]-, in both of these exceptional cases being so far back as to be practically in the parietal region.”® The onset of the disease has been, in a few cases, immediately after the injury, but in the majority a variable period has elapsed, in a few cases as much even as thirteen years. In proportion to the duration of the disease is usually the impairment of the intellect, from wdiicli the important precept may be drawn, to trephine early, since, although some of the cases of longest duration and of gravest character have been entirely relieved by operation, • A child, twelve months old, has been successfully trephined for a punctured fracture of the skull, produced by a large nail. (Gross, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 88.) ® Brit. Med. Journal, November 1, 1876. ® Walsham, St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. xix. p. 139.