128 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OP THE HEAD. no less than 48 ont of the 90 cases the horn grew from tlie head, and 38 of these scalp cases occurred in patients past middle life. The horn is generally single, somewhat pointed, and curved. In the Hew York Medical Reposi- tory, for 1820, is recorded the case of a man from whose forehead grew a horn that had three branches and was fourteen inches in circumference. In many of the recorded cases the horns have been four, five, six, and eight inches in length. If accidentally torn off they are apt to be re-formed. 'Their growth is slow, and they are only troublesome mechanically, and from an eesthetic point of view. As regards treatment, the mass should be removed, and every trace of the cyst or secreting surface at its base most scrupulously excised. II. Congenital Dermoid Cysts.—These, as regards their anatomy, closely resemble the common cyst. They have thinner and more perfect walls, as a rule, and are lined by a perfect epidermis, Avith, very often, small growing hairs. The contents are commonly spermaceti-like, or more oily or turbid, or even serous and clear, and generally present some line loose hairs. Biyant reports a case in Avhich the cyst contained “ a complete hall of hair.”^ The contents are seldom offensive. These tumors have a tendency to indent or even perforate the subjacent bone. IMany such cases are recorded.^ As a rule, a round depression has been found on the hone, at the bottom of Avhich has been a small hole leading to the cranial cavity. The pi’ecise cause and significance of this perforation are unknoAvn. Site.—The congenital cyst is usually found about the outer angle of the orbit, next in frerpiency on the front of the frontal hone, and A’eiy rarely, over the other bones of the A-ault. Cases are recorded of cysts imbedded dee])ly in or beneath the temporal muscle. These groAvths are (primarily at least) beneath the scalp muscle, and are, as a rule, closely adherent to the peri- cranium. Progress.—These tumors grow A’eiy sloAvly, seldom exceeding the general rate of groAvth of the body. They rarely attain a greater diameter than tAvo- thirds of an inch.® As to the diagnosis of these round, tense, and typically cystic bodies, no- thing need he said. They are compared Avith other congenital groAvths else- Avhere. Tavo remarkable cases are reported of dermoid cysts mistaken for meningocele. Both cases occurred in female children, respectively three and eight months old. In each case the tumor Avas small, translucent, without pulse, and irreducible, and located close to the anterior fontanelle. In one case,^ tapping gave exit to a clear fluid; in the other,® the cyst Avas situated over a congenital hole in the skull, and had pulsated in earlier infancy. Both tumors proved to be dermoid cysts, and to haA^e no communication Avith the cranial caAnty. The treatment iiiAmh^es questions of difficulty. These cysts are often diffi- cult to excise, especially Avhen about the orbit. They appear supeidicial, and yet are found to extend often to a dangerous depth, and if any cyst Avail be left behind an intractable suppuration folloAvs. In other parts their remoA'al may not be difficult. If a cyst about the orbit therefore is small, not increas- ing, and a source of no inconvenience, it may be Avell to let it alone. If excision is demanded for any reason, it must he performed Avith the utmost care and patience. It Avould, in most cases, be umvise to operate on those ‘ Manual for the Practice of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. i. p. 104. 2 Athol Johnson, Lectures on the Surgery of Childhood, p. 15. London, 1860. ® Sir James Paget and Mr. C. H. Moore, loc. cit., p. 514. ^ Giraldes, Comptes rendus de la Soc. de Biologie, 4e serie, tome iii. p. 77. 1866. 5 Henry Aruott, Trans, of Path. Soc. of Loudon, vol. xxv. p. 228. 1874.