1062 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. tions. My own case, in its early days, was most like one of solid inter-mural tumor; and afterwards, like Bristowe’s, might have hecn, if in a Avoman, mistaken for one of ovarian disease. The relative position of bowel to ovarian cyst, as compared to that of bowel to renal tumor, Avould not have assisted to a ditierential diagnosis in either instance. ISlor did the character of the urine. Bristowe, in the same number of the Lancet, records another case which shows the difficulty of diagnosis and somewhat resembles his first case. Tlie second, however, on iiost-mortem examination, turned out to he one of round- celled sarcoma, growing from amongst the pelvic Auscera, and containing a large, hemorrhagic cyst. The cyst Avas tapped five times, fluid of a reddish- hi’own color, alkaline reaction, and specific gravity 1024, being draAvn off in cpiantities varying from seA"enty-four to one hundred and sixty-seven ounces. Thus the difficulties Avhich surround the diagnosis of these A-ery rare cysts are extremely great, for not only may they be mistaken for hydatids of the kid- ney, hydronephrosis and other tumors of the kidney, and perinephric fluid collections; hut it is, moreover, almost impossible, after using every care in examination, to distinguish them, sometimes from solid tumors in the pa- rietes, sometimes from hepatic or splenic cysts, or cysts of the omentum, mesentery, or pancreas, sometimes from malignant cystic tumors springing from the pelvis or elseAvhere Avithin the belly, and sometimes—indeed, generally, in their later stages—in the female, from ovarian cysts. The treatment of these cysts is the same as the treatment of hydatid c}’sts of the kidney, and of hydronephrosis and pyonephrosis. As soon as they have attained such a size as to cause inconvenience, they should be tapped, and if they refill again and again, the}" should be cut doAvn upon, either in the loin or on the front or side of the abdomen, according to the indications in the particular case; and after draAvlug off the fluid the cyst should be cut into, and the edges of the cyst stitched to the edges of the parietal Avound. Under these circumstances the cyst Avill collapse, and either Avith or Avithout su|t})uratiiig, Avill ju’ohahly close. If a fistula should remain and prove trou- blesome, the question of nephrectomy may be considered ; hut it must be borne in mind that the kidney structure in these cases is functionally useful, and therefore the organ ought not to he sacrificed Avithout specially strong reasons. Benal cysts of Congenital Origin.—Renal cysts, like hydronephrosis, are sometimes congenital, and lead to enormous abdominal distension of the foetus in utero. Parturition is sometimes thus rendered difficult, or even impossible, and the child Avhen born presents the appearance of one haA"ing an ovarian cystic tumor. Cystic degeneration, Avith abdominal distension, is a cause of death of the foetus in utero, or during birth; and it is sometimes found associated Avith various malformations, such as talipes, cleft palate, and imperforate anus.^ Ca"STS of THE Spleen.—Cysts, other than hydatid, are very rare indeed in the spleen. Large simple serous cysts of this organ have been occasionally met Avith. M. Pean successfully removed a hypertrophied s])leen containing a large cyst. The symptoms Avould be those due to pressure, and Avould not differ from those caused by serous cysts of the kidney or other organs. In the early stage, tlieir diagnosis Avould he attended Avith all the difficulties Avhich atteiarthat of renal cysts, and in their later stages there Avould be the same resemlffance to OA"arian cysts. The treatment should at first consist in aspirating the contents, and, if the cyst should refill, the same treatment 1 See cases reported in the Transactions of the London Obstetrical Society ; and a paper of mine in the Proceedings of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, for 1876.