444 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. various surgical works, notably that of Buck,i and hardly come within the scope of this article. [See Ajipendi.x, page 4-52, infra.'] Injuries and Diseases of the Frontal Sinus. Direct violence expended upon the forehead between the e^'es, or upon the superciliary projections, may cause either a simple, a compound, or a commi- nuted fracture of the walls of the frontal sinus. Simple Fracture.—A simple fracture at this point offers a more favor- able prospect than fractures of the skull in general, on account of the space which exists between the skull walls ; but such a case should be carefully watched, and a guarded prognosis given, until the exact extent of the lesion is known. In the absence of all cerebral symptoms it is not an important one, and its only unfavorable result may be an emphysematous condition of the scalp, face, and eyelids, which occurs from the escape of air from the nose into the surrounding connective tissue. When the outer table is depressed, it should be elevated to prevent subsequent disfigurement. Compound and comminuted fractures are usually the result of gunshot wounds, blows, stabs, or explosions, and may be complicated by the lodg- ment of a foreign body.^ The results are more serious, but not necessarily fatal, even when the posterior v-all of the sinus is fractured, and the dura mater exposed. The indication of course, is at once to remove the foreign body and all loose fragments of bone, to do which it may be necessary to trephine or cut av’ay with bone-forceps a part of the overhanging edges of the cavity, and thus afford space for extraction. Simple antiseptic dressings are then applied, and the Mmund kept well drained, until cicatrization is com- plete. As a result of such injuries, fistulous openings may remain through which air passes, and these may require plastic operations for their closure ; or if cicatrization has been complete, but bony defect remain below it, the skin will be swollen out into an elastic, crepitating tumor, whenever the patient blows his nose. (Dupuytren.) The use of a pad and compress will usually, how^ever, effect a cure in these cases, vdiich are rare. Acute inflammation, with or without resulting abscess,^ is usually due to tertiary syphilis, or to the extension of catarrhal inflammation from the nose, through direct continuity of structure ; it may also follow the use of forcible injections high up into the nasal passage, or the use of the nasal douche. In these latter cases, a continuance of the exciting cause may lead to a chronic inflammation of the sinus (chronic abscess or mucocele) accompanied by a purulent or muco-purulent discharge from the nose, extremely diflicult to relieve and often offensive in its character, and may result in permanent dis- tension of the cavity, displacement of the eyeball, if the outlet of the sinus become closed li}- swelling or by plugging with inspissated mucus or crusts, and deformity of the face. In acute inflammation also, especially if pus be formed, all of the symptoms to which it gives rise are much aggravated if communication between the anterior ethmoidal cells and the nasal passage is cut off by acute swelling of the mucous membrane, so that the secretions, instead of finding a ready exit through the nose, are pent up, causing marked • Reparative Surgery. New York, 1876. 2 For a mimUer of interesting examples, see Watson, Diseases of the Nose, p. 129, and appendix. 3 See Hartman on Empyema of the Frontal Sinus. Deutsch. Archiv fiir klin. Med., 1877, S. ,531