937 SUTURE OF THE INTESTINES. to Clielins, lias collected some such eases; two more (one fatal) in wliicli the source of the bleeding is not stated, were witnessed liy Sir Thomas Watson;' and Dr. F. H. Hamilton has recorded one in which the accident happened in his own hands, but in which the patient fortunately recovered.” Shonld such a catastrophe occur, and the consequent hemorrhage be at all free, as in all probability it would, the wound should be sufficiently enlarged to allow of the wounded vessel being secured, and no dependence sbonld be placed on pressure or styptics. Fifthly^ paracentesis should not be resorted to either in ascites or in ovarian dropsy, until it is absolutely indispensable. Sixthly^ tlie surgeon should he careful to ascertain, hy personal examination, that the supposed ascites is neither a pregnant uterus nor a distended 1)ladder. This caution cannot be thought superfluous, for it is stated, on the anthor- ity of Sir Everard Home, that no less a surgeon than Jolm Hunter once actually tapped a distended bladder in the belief that the disorder w'as ascites, and a well known surgeon told me that he himself had once been summoned to meet in consultation two pJjysicians and the family attendant, for the purpose of performing paracentesis abdominis, and that the operation ivould have been done had my friend not discovered that the young lady’s malad}^ w'as pregnancy. In cases of encysted dropsy, or of dropsy associated with solid tumors or pregnancy, it will be requisite to tap elsewhere than in the median line—or in the median line at a much higlier spot than that usually selected. The linea semilunaris used to be the old seat of operation, but was aban- doned on account of the risk of wounding the epigastric artery. In France, it was the custom to puncture at the mid-point of a line extending from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the umbilicus. I have in some few cases known oozing of fluid to follow paracentesis ab- dominis, and gi’eat advantage to accrue from tbe leakage. It certainly saves an early repetition of the operation. My learned colleague. Dr. Henry Thomp- son,^ attributes tbe cure of one of his cases of ascites in a great measure to the continued outflow of serum from the wound in the abdomen, and he has several times, Avhen I have been called upon to do the operation in his ward, asked of me the question : “ Is there any danger in prolonged percolation of fluid? Can it induce peritonitis I)y j)ropagation of morbid action from the wouml, and if not, how can it be artiflcially maintained?” Acupunctare of the dropsical belly was occasionally performed j’ears ago, where ordinary tapping was thought unsafe. It was many times per- formed by Dr. Hobert Lee, and received the sanction of Sir Thomas 'Whitson,■* As much as ten gallons of liquid have escaped from the little puncture made by the passage of a grooved needle. Two days aiid nights tbe fluid has con- tinued to flow. In one instance, though only four ounces of liquid followed the puncture, that which w^as left behind gradually disap})eared. Tbe intro- duction by Dr. Houtliey of his capillary drainage-tubes lias furnisbed us with the means of starting and maintaining with safety this small continuous out- flow of ascitic fluid. The tubes have answered admirably in the cases in which I have employed them. Suture of the Intestines. At the present time, when the advances made in alidominal surgery are so rapid and so great, and more especially now that the surgical mind is bent 1 Lectures ou the Practice of Pliysic, 4th ed., vol. ii. p,. 418. 2 Priiic. and Pract. of Surgery, j). 765. 1872. 3 Olinical Lectures and Coiimientaries, Case XI. p. 193. Up. cit., 4tli ed., vol. ii. p. 418.