TUMORS OF THE NOSE. 483 Bony tumors vary somewhat in their character and formation ; some have a hard, ivory-like density ; others are soft and friable ; they are often inter- spersed with small cavities, occupied with gelatinoid, fibrous, or cartilaginous matter; but whether compact or cancellated, they always present the character- istic arrangement of the Haversian canals. Their removal is effected by cut- ting off their attachments with the knife, saw, pliers, or chisel, either through the nose, or, if the mass be very bulky, by an opening through the face. (Gross, Mott.’) Ollivier suggests that the cancellated variety may be crushed up, and then extracted without enlarging the natural opening of the nose. Cohen,^ in a case of exostosis developed from the palatine ridge of the superior max- illa, and in the vomer, ground the offending mass away through the natural passage with the burr of the dental engine, the parts being exposed by detach- ing the overlying mucous membrane and periosteum, which were replaced after the exjjosed surfaces had been carefully polished by the corundum wheel. Similar cases have been reported to me by Clinton Wagner. The curious “ osseous tumors” above referred to, require free and complete exposure of the cavities in whicli they lie, and may then he tui’iied out without difficulty. (Legouest.^) If allowed to remain in siiu^ they finally cut off their own nourishment by ])ressui’e, and slough out through the tissues which envelop them. (Hilton.'*) Sarcomatous Growths.—The tendency which fil)roid polypi, cartilaginous tumors, and even simple gelatinoid growths, occasionally exhibit to degene- rate into sarcomata, has been alluded to; but aside from these sources, sarcoma may develop primarily, with all the characteristics belonging to its class. Its differential diagnosis from carcinoma is difficult; both present in the nasal cavities many appearances, and give rise to many symptoms, that are in common. The main points in diffei’entiation have already been touched upon (page 421). Sarcoma usually shows itself, in the nasal passages, as a dark-red, fleshy- looking, lobulated mass, with prolongations and attacliments stretching in different directions; its consistence varies, being either of a dense hardiness, or with a soft and fluctuating feel. It is exceedingly vascular, and its growth ]-apid, especially in cliildren, where the adjacent cavities, }>articularly the cranium, orbit, and pharynx, are often invaded almost simultaneously. It is unquestionably the sin-geon’s duty, especially in the earlier stages of the affection, to attempt the extii-pation of the neo2)lasm by some o"iie of tlie operative procedures which have l)een descril)cd. This extirpation must, however, 1)e radical, and must be successful and conqdete at the first attempt, or disaster is sure to follow ; recurrenee of the tumor is always attended with increased ra})idity of growth, and with marked access of malignancy. Carcinoma.—Tlie rarity of true cancer originating within the nasal }>ass- ages, is conceded by all writers. Watson® holds that the recorded instances are, tor the most part, cither exam}des of fibrous or sarcomatous tumors that have undergone softening and degeneration, with perliaps fungous protrusion, or cases of encephaloid disease which has originated in the meninges or cranial bones, and which has made its way througli the ethmoid and s})henoid bones, into the orbit and nostril.® Tlie disease occurs either in ' American Jonrnal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1857, p. 35. 2 Op. cit., p. 400. 3 M6m. de I’Acad. de Med., 1865-(l(i, p. 147. * Guy’s Hosp. Reports, series i., vol. i. p. 495. * Oj). cit., ]>. 280. ® Out of fifty-one cases of meningeal cancer analyzed by Velpeau, seven presented themselves in the orhito-nasal region, and in several of these the tumor appeared in the nostril, and caused symiitoms commonly referred to malignant ^olyi)US. VOL. V.—28