1149 INGUINAL HERNIA. III 10 patients, both sides have been operated on, eitlier at the same time, or with an interval:— In one of tliese, J. P., a male, aged 19, the operations were performed in March and May, 1878, and the patient was shown at King’s College Hosihtal in October, 1881, (inite cured, no truss at all having been worn in the interval. In a boy, 1\I. S., aged 8, the two sides were operated on at the same time in November, 1872. His medical attendant informed me, in 1877, that he was at scliool abroad, and quite cured. In one case, that of a child aged 1^ years, the operations on both sides failed entirely from the violent crying and struggles of the little patient, who made a good recovery from the operation, nevertheless. This was the only failure, with the exception of a slight bulge, if that can be called a failure, on one side only. In some instances, where :i weak bulgy apptearance of the groin has re- mained after tlie operation, and lias given rise to apprehensions of a return of the rupture, the application of a horseshoe-shaped pad of vulcanite for a year or so has consolidated the parts and completed the cure. Wire Operafio)!. for the Itadical Cure of Lujairud JTernin, with .Removed of the Sac under Antiseptic Precautions.—This operation should be performed under the full use of the carbolic spray, tind with the strictest antisc[)tic precautions. I accomplish the removal of the sac by a modiftcation of the preliminary scrotal incision made in the subcutaneous method before deseribeil. Instead of a mere puncture three-fourths of an inch long through the skin and superficial fascia, an incision from two to three inches long, reaching as far upwaixls as tlie superficial abdominal ring, is made through the scrotal coverings right down to the sac itself, which is then detached from its investments, and lifted out and separated carefully from the spermatic vessels and vas deferens. This is best accom})lished by a free use of the fingers and one or two pairs of forceps, or by the haialle of the scalpel separating the sac from its coverings by tearing. Facility in this jirocess, which in old truss cases may be fouial difficult, can only be obtained by frequent practice and experience. The greatest danger is to the spermatic duct and vessels, which are sometimes closely adherent to the inner and hinder siirtace of the sac, and covered by a dense fascia which appears to belong to, or to form, the sac itself. Wlien the proper sejiaration has been effected, and the operator has made sure of the return of the her- nial contents, if reducible, the sac should be drawn out of the incision and detached upwards and downwai’ds. Its attachment to the tunica vaginalis is sometimes so close that the testis may be drawn out and the tunic itself opened by mistake. This connection liaving been detached, the fundus of the sac is firmly lifted up into a vertical position. The incision in the in- teguments is now glided up so as to be well opposite to the inguinal canal, and tlie sac is then followed and detached from the cord as high up as the deep ring. The handled hernia needle is next passed through the neck of the sac, close to the fascia transversalis, and a stout catgut ligature, whidi has been stcepeil in a solution of chromic acid, is connected with the eye of the needle and drawn through double in withdrawing it. The loo]) of the double liga- ture is then cut, ami the ends tied firmly Avith a surgeon’s knot on each side. In doing this, great care must be taken not to include a loop of boAvel, and to be tbe more certain of this, it is better to open the sac in front and pass the finger Avithin it through the deep ring. If the hernia lie a congenital one, the loAver part or fundus of the sac Avhich should have formed the normal sac of the tunica vaginalis, and Avhich is adherent to the testicle, and forms its serous covering, should be se[)arated from the rest, on a level Avith the upjier end of the testicle and epididymis, and stitc'hed u[i Avith fine catgut in a glover’s or continuous suture, to serve as the future tunica, Auiginalis. It Avill be finind most convenient to place a