NEUROSES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. 435 of loss of the latter, and to the rules for deteriuining whether such loss is limited to one nasal passage, or atfects both. It is no unusual matter for individuals affected with anosmia to declare that the sense of taste is also lost, and this because they are unable to perceive differences of flavor, a matter of olfaction alone. Careful examination and test of the gustatory sense will show, however, that the taste of acid, sweet, bitter, and saline sub- stances can be perceived—perception ^of flavor alone is in abeyance. In other words, if smell be lost and taste preserved, flavors can no longer be distin- guished, though siiu[)le perceptions of taste remain. This is true, as a rule; but even though there be complete inability to appreciate odorous substances inhaled through the nose, perception of flavors may still exist in certain cases. This can only happen, however, when the posterior nares and passage between the velum and posterior pharyngeal wall are free ; in cases where the anterior nasal openings and passages arc occluded, the odorous particles of food and fluids reach the olfactory region through the posterior nares alone. Ogle^ reports two interesting cases in which the posterior nares were obstructed in consequence of the adhesion of the soft palate to the posterior wall of the pharynx ; in both, the sense of smell and power of ]»erceiving flavors were com- pletely lost. In one, an artificial opening was made through the soft palate, and both olfaction and perception of flavors were again restored as soon as the communication was established. Loss of smell may affect one side of the nose alone; in such instances the patient may not be aware of his defect, and the surgeon can only prove it by carefully testing each olfactory region separately, the nostrils being alternately held closed. For tliis test, articles must be chosen that are truly odoriferous, and not irritant to the sensory fibres of the fifth nerve. Ammonia, snntf, and the like, are thus to be avoided, and the test made with cologne-water, musk, camphor, or any of the volatile essential oils. That tlie test may be complete, and the fact proven that complete anosmia exists, it is well to ex- periment likewise with the perception of flavor in the given case. C(ifl‘ee, wine, liqueurs, and many other articles, depend for tlieir agreeable flavor upon the participation of the sense of smell with that of taste. If com- plete anosmia exists, flavor is lost, as has been shown, even though the posterior nares be })atent. The neuroses refej’able to the nasal organ are those of olfaction, sensation, and motion. Anosmia may be caused, in the first instanca, by any condition of the nasal passages that gives rise to obstruction, or rciiders the action of odorous sub- stances upon the olfactory apparatus inqiossible; and secondly, by impaired function or destruction of the nerve-rilaments distributed in this olfac- tory region, or by impaired function or destruction of the olfactory bnllis themselves. It is understood that the term anosmia is applied only to such cases as those in winch the intensity of the perce])tion of smell is progres- sively diminished until extinguished, without the sensibility of the mucous membrane to irritant substances being affected; thus, tobacco, for instance, will cause sneezing, though its peculiar smell be not perceived. Any obstruction to the entrance and free passage of air to the iq^per por- tions of the nasal jiassage, may constitute an efficient cause of anosmia. The commoner causes arc probably chronic hypertro[)hy of the tissues, as seen in old standing easas of catarrh; the presence of thick, dry crusts and secre- tions, nasal poly]>i, and finally, as a common temporary cause, acute inflamma- tion—coryza or influenza. Among the rarer causes may be mentioned aiues- ' Med.-Cliir. Traus., vol. liii. p. 273. 1870.