260 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. elucidated by him, that little positive knowledge has since been added. His theory, based on the physical fact of liyperopia, was that the excessive con- vergence of one eye enabled the other to focus successfully for close work, in spite of the hyperopia. The theory demands that all hyperopes should become cross-eyed, and in proportion to their degree of hyperopia. But this does not prove true in fact. As a rule, the degree of hyperopia in convergent squint, is not excessive. Some patients with extreme degrees of hyperopia squint, and some do not, hut hold the hook very close, as if myopic. There are many persons with hyperopia in varying degrees, and often with con- genital defect of sight in one eye, who never squint. Again, some emmetropes are victims of strabismus, both convergent and divergent. Even hyperopes are found affected with divergent strabismus, and myopes with convergent. Hence there must be some other cause, besides an anomaly of refraction, which determines it in one case and not in another. What can this be, and where can it attach, except to the 'iauscles themselves? In many cases, marked in- sufficiency of one rectus muscle exists, and yet no manifest strabismus ever develops in its antagonist. The impulse to, and predominating interests of, binocular vision, dominate the want of balance, and keep the eyes straight. But exclude one eye from the visual act, and the disturbed muscular ec^uili- briuin will show itself at once. Direct the eyes to be fixed on the point of a pencil, at eight or ten inches, and then slip a card in front of one eye. The excluded eye will swing inwards or outwards, and twitch quickly back into position when the card is removed. As a rule, the preponderance falls on the side of the internus in childhood, and of the externus in later years. Such cases of insufficiency are sometimes called latent squint, but improperly. So it seems that disturbance of the natural muscular balance alone, is not enough to determine strabismus, especially when the vision is perfect in both eyes. Again in adults, associated with hyperopia we often find insufficiency of fhe interni, but without strabismus. Such patients complain of pain and fatigue on close application of the eyes, and often shut and press on them for relief. This is muscular asthenopia, aggravated by hyperopia, and yet with no manifest squint. Binocularly, they tix and see single, but exclude one eye, and it deviates outwards. Direct such a patient to fix both eyes on a pencil, constantly approaching the nose. At six inches or perhaps nearer, one eye will swing outwards and the pencil appear double, with crossed images. Tried by other tests the same insufficiency of the internus will show itself, and j'et the patient does not squint. Physiologically, the relative power of the two muscles is largely in favor of the internus. In ordinary avocations, the interni are in almost constant use, converging the eyes for finite distances. The external, at most are only called on to reduce the eyes from convergence to parallelism. Hence the far greater strength of the internal recti muscles, A glass prism before one eye, with its refracting angle towards tlie nose, produces doidile vision by deflecting the image towards its base. Single vision can oidy be restored by an extra action of the internal rectus, converg- ing the e^’e behind the prism. If the prism lie reversed, diplopia will again ensue, and the external rectus is called on to relieve it. The strongest prism that either muscle can thus overcome, in the interest of single vision, will be a reasonable measure of its strength. It is much easier to overcome strong- prisms at ten or twelve inches, than at twenty feet. Ulrich suggests that it is well to test the eyes for an object at twenty-five cenfimefres (about ten inches), and at six metres (nearly twenty feet). In emmetropes, a ISTo. six or seven prism can be neutralized by the externus, but one very much stronger by the internus. Ulrich gives the average normal poiver of the converging muscles at forty-five, and assumes pathological weakness when they cease to neutralize a prism of twenty-five to thirty. Starting from these premises to