81-2 INJURIES OF THE CHEST. against a suddenly fatal event was, for the moment, paramount to the indication of free- ing the embarrassed lung from the effused blood, and as the hemorrhage, moreover, appeared to be active, I wished to try to check it by the pressure which would result from the blood being allowed to accumulate in the thoracic cavity. The patient was twice largely bled, and he had acetate of lead and o[)ium given him. These measures appeared to afford him some relief. Next day he had rallied considerably. His pulse was better, and his look was less distressed. By the afternoon of that day the dyspnoea became so urgent that I allowed a considerable quantity of the collected blood to escape. This gave him for a time decided relief. The severe exhaustion which, how. ever, soon followed this step, and the return of the dulness to its former level, seemed to intimate a renewal of the hemorrhage, hence I did not reopen the wound, but determined to abstain from all interference till the bleeding vessel had had time to close. The patient was so completely prostrated by the hemorrhage which had evidently taken place internally, that I could not have recourse to any further depletive measures. The stethoscopic examination of the chest discovered amphoric breathing over the upper part of the left lung, while over the whole surface of the right chest the respi- ration was harsh and loud. Dulness existed on the left side, from the base of the lung up to an inch and a quarter above the level of the nipple. There was suppression of urine for thirty hours after admission. This patient died on the fifth day without any change in his symptoms from those noted above. The left side of the thorax was found more than half full of blood, for the most part fiuid. The lung was half solidified and compressed against the spine. Lymph was effused to a limited extent on its surface. The ball bad traversed the lung in a direction from above downwards and backwards. Its track was ragged and coated with lymph. The three upper and the three lower ribs were fractured. Here we have graphically told the cause, symptoms, and treatment of a gunshot injury of exceptional severity, implicating one lung, but just not severe enough to kill outright on the spot, or during the first few hours. An exact parallel in progress, the thoracic being exchanged for abdominal symptoms, might he readily found in the annals of penetrating wounds of the abdomen; a life on the brink of death for a few days, and death on the fifth; a case hopeless throughout, but giving just enough encourage- ment to the surgeon to induce him to hope even against a certainty. Can one in the face of these phenomena believe that free bleeding at the elbow will mitigate the symptoms of free bleeding into the thorax, or offer much hope for the control of this bleeding? Do not such bleedings as were [)ractised here take away the only hope, as fast as the same loss from a central vessel w'ould? These ideas seem to have forced themselves on the surgical mind at the time of the Crimean War, as we may see clearly in the records of this case, its reporter, as it w’ere, halting between two opinions; as a few years more passed on, w'e find the treatment absolutely abandoned—pos- sibly too absolutely; but if this latter extreme has been too completely reached, how^ much less damaging is the excess than that of the school which hied for every and all comjtlaints, and with all the more vigor the more nearly death from hemorrhage had been already reached. Fraser ex])resses hitnself in doubt of the correctness of the practice at the time of the Crimean ANhir, thus:— Ilemorrliage witli tlie older and witli many of the modern writers, is lield to be a great source of danger in lung-wound, and in its arrestment the chief element of suc- cess is held to be venesection ; to what extent this theory is correct i-emains to be proved. It is worth noticing, in reference to this question, that free venesection has been advocated not only for the relief of actual hemorrhage, by inducing fainting, but also to relieve dys})uma, as we see in the case quoted by ^lacleod ; even further, it has been used as a projihylactic against the occurrence of pneu-