628 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. pharynx down to its transition into the oesophagus; the posterior wall of the larynx down to where the pharynx merges into the oesophagus; the supra-glottic portion of the interior of the larynx; the vocal bands (true vocal cords), the laiyngeal ventricles (Morgagni) above them, anol the ven- tricular bands (false vocal cords) above the ventricles; the infra-glottic por- tion of the cavity of the larynx to a variable extent, and the internal face of the anterior portion of the thyroid cartilage, crico-thyroid membrane and cricoid cartilage; the anterior portion of the trachea in variable extent, clear down to its bifurcation under favorable anatomical relations; a portion of the interior of the right bronchus under exceptional normal conditions; and more or less of the posterior wall of the trachea. Wounds and Scalds of the Larynx and Trachea. Wounds of the larynx and ty'achea occur as results both of external and in- ternal injuries. Wounds from external injuries usually, but not invariably, implicate the integument by solution of its continuity. They are usually attended by extensive hemorrhagic extravasations into the abundant loose connective tissue. They are frequently complicated by fractures of the car- tilages. They are occasionally complicated by wounds of the great cervical bloodvessels and nerves. Wounds from internal injury almost always impli- cate the mucous membrane in the first instance; in rare instances they may penetrate the cartilage; even a wound of the carotid artery has been known to occur in this manner. Wounds of external origin present themselves in the usual varieties of con- tused, punctured, incised, lacerated, and gunshot wounds. Wounds of internal origin present themselves mostly as lacerated, but occasionally as punctured wounds. They are usually the result of injury by a foreign body in the air- passage. Scalds or burns may be caused by hot or caustic fluids swallowed acci- dentally or designedly, or hy flame or hot air inhaled from burning buildings or ships. I. Wounds of the Larynx and Trachea. Wounds of External Origin.—Contused wounds of the larynx are usually produced by intentional blows upon the throat with the fist or a weapon, b}’ kicks from men or beasts, by accidental blows from hard objects, or falls upon them, or by attempts at strangulation, whether with hands, with cloth, or with rope. They are liable to cause considerable extravasations of blood into the submucous and intermuscular connective tissue. In some instances the injury is sustained by the soft parts only. Some cases are complicated with fracture of the cartilage—simple, or even comminuted—occasionally the cricoid, but more frequently the thyroid.' These fractures may be anterior or lateral, and are usually vertical, or nearly so.^ Other complications comprise rupture of the ligaments and connecting membranes of the different com- ponents of the laryngeal skeleton ; rupture or laceration of the vocal bands, mucous membrane, and other soft tissues ; fracture of the cornua of the h}'oid bone ; dislocation of an arytenoid cartilage ; and contusion, rupture, or other injury to the trachea. Contused wounds of the trachea occur from the same class of causes as similar 1 See Fractures.