683 STRICTURE OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. fever^ seems to be the most frequent cause on tlie continent of Europe. After suicidal wound, altbougdi the vocal bands may remain intact, the lower portion of the larynx may undergo complete funnel-shaped obliteration.^ The tightest intra-tracheal strictures are produced by cicatrization of syphilitic ulcerations. Thus, in a case reported by Worthington,® the calibre of the tube bad become reduced to that of a crow-quill. In this case tlie cartilagi- nous rings below the seat of constriction, at the iqqier rings of the trachea, had undergone attenuation and dilatation, quite from the point of bifurcation. Intra-tracheal cicatricial stricture is most frequent just above the bifurcation, but it occurs at a higher level, as at the fourth and fifth rings,* and not infrequently just below the cricoid cartilage.® The depth of the stricture varies from a few lines to more than an inch.® Gerbardt mentions four cases^ in which the entire surface of the tracheal wall was the seat of disease. Symptoms.—The symptoms, though varying somewhat in detail, are similar, no matter where the constriction. The main symptom is inspiratory dyspncea, whether constant or only developed on exertion. As the stenosis becomes greater, the dyspncea increases, and the voluntary muscles of respi- ration are brought prominently into play. The inspiratory stridor gradu- ally augments, in some instances merging into stridulous respiration in both phases, with recession of the soft parts during inspiration. Tbe face becomes pale or livid in severe cases, the countenance expresses anxiety or dread, and the pulse becomes small and frequent. Sensations of oppression of tbe chest become a source of discomfort and of fear. Cough is not a necessary phenomenon, and presents itself independently of the stricture. Compression of a primitive bronchus, and e.specially of both bronchi, will produce symptoms identical with those of compression of the trachea. Certainty of difierential diagnosis, then, depends upon recognition of the bifurcation in the laryngo- scopic image. The symptoms are usually gradual when due to disease other than acute laryngitis; and they often present themselves suddenly when due to injury. Tbe usual phenomena of suffocative apnoea supervene, should the constric- tion become extreme. The voice is impaired in the majority of cases; but the character of the impairment depends upon the location of the constriction. It is faint and muffied in many cases of tracheal stricture, owing to the small amount of air passing. Deglutition may be impeded when the up[)er part of the larynx is involved. Ijiaynosis.—The history of the case, tbe dyspiima, and the stridulous respi- ration, are sufficiently indicativeof the characterof the lesion. iSlarked vertical movement of the larynx in respiration has been tbought to indicate obstruction in that organ; and slight movement, or want of it, to indicate obstruction in the trachea;® but this sign is by no means thorougbly reliable for such discriminative diagnosis. Auscultation of the laiynx and trachea furnishes little information as to the seat of the lesion, the sounds being too confused for due interpretation. ' Liining, Die Laryiigo- iind Traclieo-stenosen im Verlaiife des Alidominaltyplius, iiiidihre chi- rurgische Beliaudluug. Arch. f. kliu Chir., Bd. xxx. II. 2, S. 225-340, iiml H. 3, S. 523-619 ; ab- stract in Internationales Centralblatt fiir Laryngologie, n. s. w. Aug. 1884, S. 72. 2 Kiichler, Derrtsclie Klinik, 1 Mai, 1869, S. 169. (The jjatient in this case died five years after tlie wound, from typhoid fever.) ® Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxv. p. 230. London, 1842. Tliornton, Med. Times and Grazette, June 27, 1874, p. 704. * Worthington, loc. cit. ; Hall, Brit. Med. .Jour., April 26, 1884, p. 814; Bayer, Rev. Mens, de Laryngologie, etc., .Juin, 1884, p. 95 ; Ashhnrst, i\Ied. and Surg. Reporter, 1880. ® Stoerk, Klinik der Krankheiten des Kehlkopfes, des Nase, und des Racliens, S. 436. Stutt- gart, 1880. (In this case a conical canula reached clear into tlie right broncluis) ; Mackenzie, oj) cit., p. 537. ’ Cited hy Riegel, loc. cit., p. 483. ® Glerhardt, Lehrbuch der Auscultation und Percussion, S. 219. Tubingen, 1871.