3(34 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. stands midway between it and the posterior pharyngeal wall, touching neither, and at an angle of about 130°. In this position, it will be impossible to obtain the Avliole picture of the parts at once, except in exceiitional instances; and the face of the mirror must therefore be tunied from side to side, to view the lateral pharyngeal walls ; upwards, to view the vault of the phaiynx; and at more or less different angles and inclinations, to see com- pletely the parts embraced within the posterior openings of the nares. Such is the method; and a complete examination is almost always practicable, though comparatively seldom with the facility which attends the use of the laryngoscopic mirror. Three difficulties may present themselves to prevent the examination. One is insuperable—a. long hard palate which approaches so nearly to the posterior pharyngeal wall, that there is no practicable degree of space left through which an examination can be effected. A second is common, and may require an additional instrumental procedure; this condi- tion is that in which a long, broad soft palate, a long uvula, and a short dis- tance between them and the posterior pliaryngeal wall, coexist, and in which an examination can only be made when the former are drawn away from the latter. This can be accomplished by means of the so-called palate hook, made of metal, or, still better, a broad, well-curved hook of hard rubber, or a bougie with a wire centre to give the necessary firmness. Tlie latter are much better tolerated than the former; they are introduced by the left hand gently under the palate (the right hand holding the mirror), and the palate is then drawn with moderate force towards the operator—that is, away from the posterior pharyngeal wrII. This procedure rarely succeeds, however, at the first trial, though successive and persevering attempts will generally end in tiring the palatine muscles or in training them to a point of toleration, and will thus overcome tlie spasmodic contraction which at first follows any attempt to draw the velum forwards. As a rule, however, it will be found, that the same time that is devoted to training the patient to tolerate this hook, or any of the other forms of instrument that have been devised (Tiirck, Lorry, Stork), will be all-sufficient to train him to breathe C[uietly through the nose, and to cause the palate to hang immovable in the mouth. The third and last difficulty exists at first in the majority of cases. It is caused by the drawing up of the velum and uvula tightly against the pharyngeal w'all, as soon as the patient opens his mouth and places the spatula upon the tongue, or when instruments are about to be introduced by the examiner. Quiet respiration, carried on through the nose, will overcome this difficulty, however, at once, when the velum will be found to hang motionless and free from the pharyn- geal wall. If the patient cannot succeed in maintaining respiration through the nose, the palate may be made to fall forwards by causing him to emit certain nasal sounds, such as the French en. The first plan is however the best; the examination is then to be made with celerity, accuracy, and com- pleteness. Reflex irritability of the pharyngeal parts, it may here be remarked, is a far greater disadvantage than when it occurs as an impediment to laryngo- scopy. A skilful and certain hand, with some training of the parts, will do much to facilitate the examination. I believe that it will rarely be found necessary for the purposes of exami- nation alone, though it may be for operative procedures, to acquire absolute control of the soft i)alate, or a wider patency of the palato-pharyngeal space, by tying the 'yalate forwards^ as advised by Stork and more recently by Wales. This procedure consists in passing a cord through each nostril to the pharynx, drawing the ends out through the mouth, passing them over the ear on each side, and tying them behind the head, the soft palate yielding under gentle traction, and being folded, as it were, uiion itself. Bosworth suggests that a