INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. 53 and from the course pursued by the hall through the mastoid process. Xo further hemorrhage took place, the ball was supposed to have penetrated the brain deeply, and the patient died of pyeemia. Post-mortem examination revealed that the missile had just penetrated the sinus, and had plugged the opening, which finally became so enlarged by ulceration as to permit the ball to fall into the lumen of the sinus, out of which it rolled when the vessel was opened. Although not recommending such a procedure when it is avoid- able, the ease with which hemorrhage from these venous channels can be arrested, proves that, as far as bleeding goes, trephining can l)e safely per- formed over the course of either the longitudinal or the lateral sinus. Concussion, Contusion, Compression, and Laceration op the Brain.— Certain preliminaiy anatomical facts must be considered, and a brief glance taken at the result of Buret’s experiments,^ before a clear idea can be ob- tained of the pathology or phenomena of concussion, cerebral contusion, and laceration. Buret’s observations on injuries of the dura mater have already been adverted to. The skull forms an exceedingly elastic case; in proof of which fact, an expe- riment of FelizeP need alone be adduced. He filled a skull with melted paraf- fine, which was allowed to cool. The skull was then dropped from the height of two and a lialf feet, and examined. Opposite the point of impact, the paraf- fine was depressed for an area of more than an inch, the centre of the depres- sion being one-third of an inch in depth, or, in cubic measure, 0.13 of a cubic inch, which was a very considerable amount for such a moderate blow. The cerebro-spinal fluid is, roughly s})eaking, divided into two parts, VIZ., the ventricular and peripheral, communicating with each other by the narrow foramen of Mageiidie at the lower end of the fourth ventricle. The major part of the ventricular fluid is collected in the lateral and third ventricles, communicating with the smaller quantity in the fourth ventricle through the contracted itei' e tertio ad qnartum ventricidiuii. The relative bulks of these two portions must be kept clearly in mind. The peripheral portion begins in, oris continuous with, the lymph-sheaths of the fine cerebral arterioles, a fact never to be lost sight of, as it explains disseminated con- tusion of the brain. The spaces between the convolutions communicate on the one hand with the minute arterial lymph-sheaths, and on the other with larger sacs, the chief of which are located at the liase of the Sylvian fissure, a central one at the base of the brain, an inferior cerebellar behind and I jelow tlie cerebellum, and a terminal sac at the inferior extremity of the S[»inal cord. The inferior “ cerebellar lake”^ communicates witli the fluid of the ventricles through the foramen of Magendie. The subarachnoid s]>ace in which is con- tained the cerebro-spinal fluid, really consists of a delicate meshwork sup- porting the thin-walled bloodvessels. I. Concussion of the Brain.—Concussion is the term used by Buret to indi- cate the symptoms of a sudden arrest, or suspension, of the cerebral functions, by force transmitted through the cercbi'o-S}»inal fluid to more or less distant portions of the brain, mainly, he thinks, to the fourth ventricle. Tbe import- ance of Buret’s ex[)eriments must not be pressed too far, but they certaiidy indicate the manner and })oints at which much less severe lesions may, and, as will be seen, do, occur in man. Tlie elastic skull, yielding to the blow, com- presses the cerebral hemispheres and the peripheral cerel)ro-s}>inal fiuid. The 1 Etudes experimeiitales et cliiiiqiies sur les traumatismes cereljraux, tome i., 1878. 2 Reclierches anatiimi(_|ues et experimeiitales sur les fractures du crane. Paris, 1873 ® This is Duret’s term.