WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. <S13 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, Part First, Surgical Volume, p. 497. nionia—objects sufficient in number at least to be accomplished by a single remedial measure, how inefiectual for each appears to be amply proved by Fraser’s arguments, which first turned the tide of professional opinion into a more rational channel. The experience of wars subsequent to the Crimean, but chiefly that of the American Rebellion, has ju’oved that now the tide sets entirely against venesection in the treatment of penetrating Avounds of the chest. In its place, strict attention to the means of obtaining rest, Avith cold to the surface, and opium, are noAv the means of treatment. A question of equal importance Avith that of general treatment is that of the local management of the Avound. The great disturbing cause Avhich seems to have led to uncertainty as to the mode of treatment to be adopted locally, is the fear that collapse of the lung Avill follow the entrance of air. ACe find, then, two distinct plans adopted in these cases: (1) the closure of the Avound, even “hermetically,” and (2) its opposite, alloAving the Avound to remain open under some suitable dressing. Which is the better ? The vast majority of penetrating AVOunds are gunshot injuries; the exceptions, incised or punctured Avounds. Applying the ordinary principles of surgery, even to the case of the exceptional group, nothing but absolute necessity Avould justify tbe complete closure of the Avound; for all experience proves that, except in the case of such surfaces as those of the divided lip, or the like, accumulation of fluid in the dee}> part of the Avound A\dll take place. Even between the most skilfully cut flaps of an amputated liml), let fluid be pent up, even under tlie most perfect antiseptic management, its tension Avill lead to inflammation and local distress—it may be to pyamiia—if no vent be provided. Surely the conditions of a Avounded lung and thorax are unfltted for the experiment of closure. AVe can imagine a clean sword- thrust, or the like, healing throughout, even when it has passed through the edge of the lung; but these wounds are admitted to be even more dangerous than gunshot injuries, from their tendency to bleed, and so to cause fluid accumulations if closed superflcially. Rothing ap})ears more ixquignant to the principles of surgery than tlie attempt to close a bullet track, Avliich, however it be placed, under its ordinary conditions, must aflbrd ample material to be discharged externally. The attempt* made to close the external Avound by excision of its edges and suturing of the surfaces so formed (Howard), has been extensively tried ; but although it has attbrded relief at times, and has not always entailed the serious results that at first vicAv one might expect, it has met Avith the fullest condemnation from those best placed for judging of its results—the surgeons of the American army. The fact of a bronchial drain existing fi’om these Avounds seems alone to provide for the relief of accumula- tion, when the Avound is closed either by its form or artificially. Older autho- rities, Pare and those that folloAved him, fully appreciated the necessity of a drain from such Avounds. Larrey broke in on their plan by the ado})tion of immediate closure, but his cases Avere examples of incised wound of the lung, and tliere existed furtlicr an active hemorrhage, caHing for immediate pressure for its arrest. In these circutnstances the closure adojitcd for the conti-ol of bleeding was found to give relief to the dyspnoea also; just in such cases at the present day Avould a similar treatment be adopted. But in the case of bullet-wounds, the consensus of opiidon among military Avriters is that the least fatal injuries are lung-Avounds in Avhich the bullet ]>asscs clean through —less injurious than wounds inflicted by a lesser velocity, in wbicb the bidlet lodges. What are the elements of safety adde<I by the second holeV The absence of the foreign body and the establishment of a better drain. Guthrie’s observation is an apt illustration :—