90 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. are met with in fractures outside of the motor zone. Too little is known of their nature, significance, etc., to warrant any definite statements. As a result of traumatism, true epilepsy, hysteria, or even the convulsions due to apoplexy, may occur. Convulsions are of diagnostic value in direct propor- tion to their limitation. Total hemiplegia cannot have a cortical origin, and therefore contra-indi- cates operation,^ unless it has been incomplete at the outset, is irregular, and coincides with a very extended depression of the hone covering the motor region of the opposite side. Then a trephine-crown may be applied upon the middle of the line of Rolando, when, if the appearance of the dura mater wai’rant it, still more bone may be removed. JNIonoplegia, or spasms limited to one member, or to a portion of a member, indicates limited lesions. If the lower limb be afiected, the upper portion of the ascending parietal convolution, with perhaps also tlie corresponding part of the ascending frontal, is involved. A trephine-crown must then he applied about the upper part of the Rolandic line. AVith paralysis of the arm and leg, the lesion probably involves the upper two-thirds of the ascending convolutions or the paracentral lobnle. The trephine should then be placed at the upper part of the line, a little lower than in the preceding case. It may perhaps be necessary to enlarge the open- ing by cutting out another circle lower down.^ lr*aralysis of the upper extremity alone, probably indicates injury to the middle third of the ascending troiital convolution, and the trephine should be applied a little in front of the middle third of the line of Rolando. Paralysis of the - lower part of the face points to lesion of the inferior third of the ascending convolutions, or of the foot of the second frontal. Here the trephine should be placed a little in front of the inferior third of the Rolandic line. In all the above instances, one portion of the periphery of the cut should cover the line of Rolando. Immediate aphasia after injury of the left side of the head, is probably the result of the pressure of a bony fragment or a clot of blood. Should aphasia occur within a few days or Aveeks, it is probal)!}’ due to abscess, and although the ojieration may prove of doubtful value, it may be attempted. The surgeon must never forget, hoAve\"er, that this symptom may result from a lesion extending from the primary injury, seated perhaps at some distance from the speech centre. In simple aphasia, the trephine-crown should be placed lower down still, in front of and below the inferior extremity of the line (see Fig. 831). Fortunately, in most cases many centres are attacked, and consequently the surface to be exposed is much larger. Thus :— AVith paralysis of both lower extremities, the summit of the line, and the contiguous superior portion of the cranium, must be removed; with paralysis of one upper and one lower extremity (hemiplegia), the operation must be performed at the middle and upper portion of the line ; in paralysis of the arm with facial palsy, the trephine is to be applied at the inferior third of the line, and a little in front; in palsy of the upper extremity Avith aphasia, the open- ing should be made beloAv and in front of the line; Avith facial paralysis and apliasia, the bone should be removed Avell in front of the line, and beloAv its inferior extremity (see Fig. 831). The above, folloAving Lucas-Charnpion- niere, give all the possible combinations, and the proper positions at Avhich • Brain-abscess excepted, when operation is indicated. 2 MacEweu (Glasgow Medical Journal, Feb. 1884) reports a successful trephining over the middle third of the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions, for hemiplegia the result of syphilitic disease.