HERNIA. BY JOHN WOOD, F.H.S., F.R.C.S., PROKESSOK OF CLIMC.^L SURGERY IN KING’S COLLEGE, AND SENIOR SURGEON TO KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL, LONDON. Hernia in General. [n its more extcmlcd meaiiiug the term hernia is applied to any jn’otrusiou of a viseus througli its containing walls, as seen in Hernia cerehri, Hernia pul- )nonuni, Hernia testis, etc. In its more restricted and nsnal sense, it means a protrusion of some abdominal visens throngh the abdominal walls, beneath the integuments and fasciae; and in this sense it is used in this article. Most frequently tlie o]iening is constituted by the enlargement of a natural aper- ture between the muscles and fascia'. Hiicb protrusions are named accord- ing to their situation: IJeriua i'n;/iiinalis, llernia cruralis vel femoyrilis, Hernia, nmhiliealls^ Jferain ohtieraforia,, IJernia sar-ro-selatica. All these pass through dilatations of natural openings, and are covered by the integnments and abilominal fasciie varying with theii' ])Osition. In the same category must he named the unusual forms of diaphragmatic henna passing through tlie msophageal openings into the thorax. Hut abdominal rupture is sometimes found as the result of wounds, or tearing of the abdominal walls. This most usually results in a. ventral hernia, occurring through openings in the mus- culo-tendinous parietes, ju’oduced l»y distension and forcing, sucli as occurs in pregnancy an<l childbirth, and in excessive corpidency, pci'itoneal dropsy, etc. Anothei- f)rm of traumatic rupture, as it may he called, follows pene- trating wounds in the same regions—as in the case of iliapliragmatic pro- trusion through a spear wound into the pericardial cavity, protrusion after laparotomy, etc. Ueueath and in additiiai to the coverings alrea<H mentioned, hernite are also usually furnished with a sac or covering of the serous membrane—the parietal layer of the peritoneani\ hut tlie cmcuni may protrude without a sac, and in cases of congenital umbilical hernia, and of traumatic rupture, the only .sac to he found may he composed of cicatricial tissue. This containing pouch soon contracts adhesions to its hernial coverings, and cannot after a time be returned within the musculo-tendinous walls of the abdomen. It increases with the size of the protrusion, partly by growth, partly by distension with slight unravelling of its fhres, hut mainly by fresh protrusion of the loose peritoneum. It may he so thin as to he distinguished with dithculty, or so thick as to he divisible into layers. The dilated end is called the fandus ; the narrow constricted jiortion is the vcel: of the sac. In an old rujiture, the latter is nsually puckered, thickened, and more or less rigid, sometimes forming a strangulating hand. 8ometimcs two sacs are found in an old hernial tumor, a fresh protrusion existing within, or by the side of, the ( )