1057 HYDATIDS. melon, in the substance of the mesentery. The capsule of the cyst was of dense, cartila- ginous hardness, and the contents were a semi-fluid, caseous mass, of a pale-yellow color. The walls of the cyst were covered internally with calcareous plates. This was a case of spbntaneous recovery of a hydatid of the mesentery. Dr. Wickham Legg* has recorded a case of hydatid cyst within the omen- tum. The cyst was full of daughter-cysts, and was adherent to the sigmoid flexure of the colon ; there were, besides, three cysts in the liver, and another, the size of a child’s head, between the rectum and bladder. Death was caused by prolonged jaundice due to pressure of one of the hepatic cysts upon the hepatic duct. Murchisoid reported two cases iiiAvhich numerous hydatid cysts had grown in the mesentery, omentum, and other parts of the peritoneum. In one ease certaiidy, and in the other doubtfully, the disease commenced in the liver. Hydatid tumors in these ]irocesses of the peritoneum, if large enough to be detected, present smooth, elastic, painless, movable swellings. If they are numerous and growing, or if single and of veiy great size, there will he paroxysmal attacks of abdominal pain, vomiting, dyspnoea, and faintness ; and possibly ascites and other evidences of intra-abdominal pressure. Tlie tumor will be lobulated or uniform, according as there are several cysts, or only one cyst. Tapping, or the removal of the cysts by laparotomy, must be resorted to for relief or cure. Though it may be found impossible to remove all the cysts when multiple, relief from distension will be atforded liy puncture; and life Avill lie prolonged, and the patient temporarily improved, by the evacua- tion of several of them.* Hydatids op the Abdominal Parietes.—Hydatids occur in the subcu- taneous areolar tissue, in the muscles, and in the cellular tissue between and beneath the muscles of the abdominal walls. Mr. BryanP has recorded a case of an enormous tumor beneath the muscles, but a})[»arently outside the peritoneum, Avhich had been growing fourteen years, and had throughout been regarded as an ovarian cyst. It ivas tapped in the eighth year of its existence, when seven })ints of thin fluid were drawn otf. Subsetpiently it attained the size of a i)regnant ivomb at full time, and a second cyst, the size of half an orange, developed beneath the skin, midway between the pubes and the umliilicus. Mr. Bryant removed the smaller, and laid open the larger cyst, from Avhich many rpiarts of hydatids and fluid escaped. The edges of the Avound in the cyst Avere stitched to the edges of the external Avound by five or six sutures, an opening three inches in length being left. The patient had quite recovered in sixteen Avecks. Mr. Bryant remarks, that this large tumor, Avheu kneaded, gave rise to a special and peculiar sensation, due to the rolling and pressing together of the immense and closely packed mass of secondary (daughter) cysts, and he thinks that this might help to indicate the nature of a similar case. Hydatids betaveen the Bladder and the Rectum.—Several cases of hydatid tumor in this situation are recorded. Di’. Legg’s case above alluded to, and cases recorded liy Dr. Bright, are good instances. The usual symptoms caused by hydatids in this situation are difliculty in defecating and micturating, Avith pain in the jienis, groins, and over the loAver part of the abdomen, and mdema of one or lioth of the loAver limbs. A smooth, elastic swelling Avill in all probability be felt 'per anum. In a ' Trans. Patli. Soc. Lond., vol. xxv. p. KJO. 3 Ibid., vol. xxiii. p. 128. VOL. V.—07 2 Ibid., vol. xxiii. p. I2G et seq. ^ Guy’s IIosp. Rep., 3d ser., vol. xiv., p. 235.