INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 606 conditions and forms of the affection. If the contents could be got rid of by absorption, it is manifest tliat much would be gained. If this cannot be accomplished, then the evacuation of the fluid, followed by the obliteration of the sac, would present itself as the least objectionable device, Avbile its destruction by caustic, its incision, or its entire removal by excision, might be in certain conditions the most feasible or most promising mode of management. Compression is diflicult or impossible to apply in the neck, so as to be eftective and endurable. Even elastic collodion, which seems well adapted to exercise a certain useful pressui’e, proves objectionable in young and tender children from the irritation which it causes. Counter-irritation by iodine or cantbarides, and the use of mercury or muriate of ammonium in solution or ointment, cause too much irritation in the child, and so are productive of barm. It is seldom that any appreciable or abiding influence is thus exercised in inducing absorption. To puncture the cyst without attempting to oblite- rate the sac, can only be a temporary expedient, as the fluid is quickly re-formed. In sanguineous cysts, serious and even fatal bleeding has in a few cases followed simple puncture. A flue aspirator needle is the best instru- ment to employ, if puncture is to be tried. To excite adhesive inflammation in the sac, after it has been emptied, has been attempted by the use of electric- ity, injections, the seton, etc. From the first of these agents little good has been got, though it has been frequently tried, and in many ways. Of the various injections, iodine has commended itself most. If thrown into a bloodvessel, or employed in too concentrated a form, it will unquestionably be followed by mischief; but these errors are not likely to occur when their possibility is j tresent to the surgeon’s mind. The quantity used is generally equal to half the bulk of the fluid which has been in the first instance withdrawn. It is thrown in slowly, through a small canula, which has been carried a short way under the skin before entering the cyst, so as to diminish the risk of air being introduced. A previous puncture of the skin with a knife, allows the canula to be passed with less force and with more precision. No washing-out of the cyst, preparatory to the injection of the iodine, is requisite,but that fluid should be allowed to escape (without squeezing) after it has remained in the sac for a short time. This, at least, is a safe precaution to enforce on the first occasion, as we cannot be certain wliat degree of action will be set up, and it is not wished that it should be too great. It is also well to wait the full effects of each injection, before another is used, and to be guided thereb}’. If pressure could be afterwards applied, it would materially aid the injection. Heated wine, alcohol, pei’chloride of iron, chloride of zinc, etc., have also been used by injection, and occasionally most disastrous results have followed from ex- cessive inflammation. Some practitioners desire to occasion so considerable an amount of inflammation as to produce suppuration, but it is difficult to restrain or guide such a complicatio)i. A seton is obnoxious from the undue irritation which it is apt to cause, and, in its usual form, from its obstructing rather than aiding drainage; but a small vulcanite tube, or carbolized catgut (which is capable of being absorbed), or horse-hair, might, when injection failed, be thought of. The interior of the sac may be waslied out, through a drainage-tube, with Condy’s fluid, or with one of the unirritating antiseptic agents now in use. It is diflicult to apply injections to the interior of multi- locular growths. Jules Roux’s suggestion, first to break down the partitions between the cysts, is more specious than practical. To destroy a cyst of the neck by the application to its external surface of caustic in any form, can hardly be advocated, as such a method is not only slow, violent, painful, and uncertain, but leaves a most objectionable scar behind. A mark must also result from incision, l)ut it need not be great, and if antiseptic precautions are taken there will not be that risk of inflammation and supixi-