234 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. vitreous, tlie former is likely to be the result. Where the lens is not ex- truded, the cicatricial tissue, composed of the blended remains of the cornea and iris, is likely to yield slowly to the pressure from within, and show an unsig’htly prominence. The deformity and inconvenience of a corneal staphy- loma vary much in different cases. If neither be very great, the patient may he let alone, and watched. If the deformity be unsightly, and especially if the protrusion be constantly inflamed and painful, surgical interference is demanded. Should the whole globe be enlarged and seriously altered, the eye being a constant source of pain and danger, enucleation will be safest. But if the changes are confined to the corneal region, the back portion of the globe being natural in appearance and size, the stapliylomatous portion may be removed. Thus the eye will be reduced in size, and the patient enabled to wear an artificial eye. I prefer a reduced stump like tliis, to the small mova- ble button only, that remains after enucleation. But in either ease, an eye can be worn with comfort and great benefit to the personal appearance. The easiest and best operation in such a case, is simple ablation. The patient lies on his back, and does not often recpiii’e ether. The lids are separated by the fingers of an assistant, or by the stop-speculum, the eye is fixed by stout forceps, and the desired portion removed by a Beer’s cataract knife. The tumor being transfixed from temple towards nose, with the edge of the knife held upward, rapid movements are made to finish a I’egularflap above. Then, seizing this flap quickly with toothed forceps, the knife is turned, and the removal finished below. Of course the lens escapes, and a gush of vitre- ous follows, before the knife is reversed. But the section must be completed quickly, the lids instantly closed, and a cold compress applied by a rather firm bandage. Otherwise hemorrhage may take place from the bottom of the eye, pushing out the remains of the vitreous, and may he followed by suppurative elimination and extreme atrophy of the stump. Several ingenious methods have been practised, in which the conjunctiva is stitched to close up the opened cavity. But this causes delay, and does not leave as regular a stump for the glass eye as a well executed, simple ablation. The closed lids, with pressure kept up for a few days, secures a good result. In old persons, with appearances that indicate danger of hemorrliage, enucleation is safer, and the result more prom})t. (Plate XXVII., Fig. 5, represents a well-marked case of the form of staphyloma known as buphthalrmis.) A Avord as to prothesis. The patient nearly always Avants a larger eye than he ought to Avear. After enucleation of a much and long enlarged eye, there is an immense cavity, and the Avearer thinks that this ought to be tilled out even Avith the other eye. It cannot be, without glassy staring, and immobil- ity and discomfort. The artificial eye should ahvays be smaller than the other, alloAving easy closure of the lids over it. It is seldom that the same eye can he Avorn more than tAvelve or eigliteen months Avith comfort and safety. If corroded on its surface or edges, irritation, slow adhesions of the lids to the stump, and contraction of the-space Avill folloAV, till no eye at all can be borne. An atrophied eye, Avith the clear cornea preserved, Avill A^ery seldom tolerate an artificial substitute, and Avearing it may give rise to sympatlietic oph- thalmia. Dense leucoma of the cornea, in an eye of natural size and free from irritation or increased tension, may be greatly improved in appearance by tattooing. This is done Avith pure India ink, and generally requires to he repeated tAvo or three times, to secure sufiieient staining. The patient lies on his back, Avith his eyelids Avell propped open, and the fluid, brushed on the part to be stained, is pricked in very thoroughly Avith the tattooing needles. The ink is apjfiied repeatedly, ami the needles used, till the coloring is satis- factory. When done, the cornea is left exposed for some minutes till it dries.