811 WOUJSDS OF THE CHEST. may be united to the external wound, and nothing from the former can fall into the cavity of the pleura.”* IV’^hen a sharp instrument pierces the lung, even superficially, hemorrhage may be profuse; and in cases where any wound traverses the lung near its root, the amount of bleeding may be not only profuse but rapidly fatal. In those grave cases where the source of bleeding is beyond the direct control of the surgeon, where the powers of nature alone must be trusted to restrain the flow, what line of treatment is to be adopted ? Tlie coagulatiozi of the blood in the wmunded lung, and the compression of the lung by air, or blood, or both, in the pleui’al cavity, leading to the retraction of the lung, arc, with rest, as far as it may be maintained, the only objects to be sought for. On this subject, more than any other, surgical opinion aiul practice have changed in recent times. Here venesection lingered longest as the most ehicient treatment; venesection, too, carried to the utmost degree, and repeated on every sign of recurrence of bleeding. Up to the time of the Crimean War (1854) this practice prevailed, and Avas taught in every manual and lecture. We induce this fainting by bleeding, and here the bleeding from the arm must be large in quantity and suddenly drawn. The patient’s friends may say : “ He has already lost a large quantity of blood, and is still losing it; why, therefore, would you take more blood from him?” But do not be debarred from your purpose by anything that may be said or hinted by those who cannot understand your object. There is nothing else to save the patient’s life. When you open a vein in one arm, if it does not bleed freely, don’t hesitate to open a vein in the other; and you must not be satisfied with a small orifice, for ten ounces of blood taken suddenly will cause fainting, when it w'ouhl take twenty ounces to produce the same effect if taken slowly. You save blood and the patient’s strength in proportion to the freedom with which the blood flows from the vein. But suppose you succeed in lessening or stopping the flow of blood from the mouth, may you relax your vigilance? No, indeed, for in five or six hours it may break out afresh, and you should be on the spot to repeat your venesection instantly. It may return sevei’al times in six, ten, or twelve houi’s, and at each recurrence you must be ready with the lancet; even at every new fit of difficulty of respiration you will bleed, if possible—anything to arrest hemorrhage from the lungs.'^ Such was tlie teaching forty years ago Izy a master of tlte art, ami the prevalent practice, supported by the great military surgeons of his day, was exactly such as he describes. The change to the coiu})lete aljandonment of the lancet was ziot long in coming around, and in the American war no longer is there any mention of bleeding to arrest luemoptysis in penetrating wounds of the chest. The position of this question at the time of the Crimean war is well shown in the following record by Macleod. Tlie case, too, displays fully the wish of the (practical surgeon to treat the Avound Avith a free exit for discharge, only restrained by the pressing emergency of the control of hemorrhage Ilannihan, a private in the iloyal Irish regiment, was admitted into my wards in the general hospital on the 18th of June. While lying on the ground, with his head towards the enemy, he was struck above the left clavicle by a rifle ball, which traversed his lung from its summit to its base, and Avas found lying quite stqierficially in the left lumbar region, from which jiosition it was removed. The dyspiuea, on admission, was very great, and the laemojitysis was profuse. The surface was cold, and bedewed with cold pers[)iration. The pulse was weak and tremulous, and the decubitus was on the wounded side. The removal of the ball was followed by a tremendous gush of blood from the incision made, and the blood continued to How in such quantity that I had to close the wound to prevent immediate dissolution. The necessity of guarding * Colles’s Lectures, vol. i. page 215. * Ibid., page 211.