304 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. spread toward the middle ear or mastoid cells. By direct extension, they may excite a subacute mastoid periostitis. They are very apt also to occasion, or to be associated with, furuncles of the cai’tilaginous portion of the canal. In the acute cases, the prospects of an early and complete cure are good ; in the chronic ones, our prognosis must he guarded, as the disease is at times exceedingly stubborn, and relapses are very common. The treatment must vary according to the stage or condition in which the disease happens to he. If the parts are simply red and swollen, and have not yet begun to secrete, a small blister over the mastoid process may he found sufficient to check the further progress of the disease. If the walls of the canal are already moistened by secretion, nitrate of silver in solution is to he employed. Before the solution is instilled into the meatus, it is veiy important to clean the inflamed parts thoroughly, so that they may be exposed to the full action of the remedy. The physician should therefore carry out this part of the treatment himself. Befoi'e the solution is intro- duced into the canal, the syringe aiid a vessel of warm water should he placed within easy reach. After the solution has been dropped into tlie canal, the physician should wait until the patient experiences a distinct sen- sation of warmth, pain, or throbbing in the ear. I always request the patient beforehand to direct his attention to the ear, and to inform me as soon as ho perceives either of the sensations just mentioned. "With a solu- tion of from forty to sixty grains to the ounce, the sensation of warmth will generally not be felt by the iiatient until after the lapse of three or four minutes; with a solution of double that strength, the sensation is usually experienced much sooner. As soon as decided warmth, throbbing, or pain is felt by the patient, the remedy should be washed out of the canal by means of the syringe and tepid water. The walls of the meatus must then he dried carefully by means of the cotton-holder armed with absorbent cotton, and when properly dried they should be anointed with simple vaseline, or with vaseline to which a little oil of cade has been added. Very often a single such slight cauterization of the canal suffices to arrest the disease. In other cases two or three repetitions will be found necessary. These should he made at intervals of two or three days, and if tlie discharge from the ear is active, the patient should be instructed to wash out the canal with the syringe or douche once or twice a day. Otherwise the ear may he left alone from one visit to the next. In the more distinctively desquamative eases, the treatment must be slightly modified. In the first place, a thorough removal of the firmly attached laminre of dead skin can scarcely he effiected without the aid of the curette. This instrument, inserted flatwise between the dead and the living skin, may he used very effectively in dissecting off fhe former. The forceps then comes into play, or, if it he preferred, the syringe may he used for the purpose of removing the fragments or sheets of dead skin tliat have been separated from their attachments. Lately I have occasionally used liquid potassa soap in freeing the canal from these masses, and have found it very efficacious. 'When the walls of the canal have thus been carefidly freed from all foreign matters, and, as it were, laid hare, we may proceed to the instillation of the silver solution. Furthermore, in this class of cases, it is important that the patient should keep the auditory canal, throughout its entire length, well anointed M'ith the oil of cade and vaseline mixture, or with simple “ cuti- cura.”^ At least twice a day he should make these applications to the canal. ' “Cviticura” belongs to the class of patent medicines, and bears a strong resemblance to vaseline. It differs from the latter, however, in one very important respect: it retains its semi-