DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. 503 V-shaped incision, bringing the two sides together "with stitches; but these soon cut through, and the result, though eventually satisfactory, was not better than that gained by the simpler method. Atrophy of one side of the tongue is never a congenital affection, but the result either of cerebral disease or of injury to the hypoglossal nerve, as in a case of aneurism of the external carotid artery, recently under my care, in which the nerve was stretched and atrophied.^ Sir James Paget^ has recorded a case in which removal of necrosed bone from the skull relieved the nerve and led to restoration of the tongue, but this is a favorable result which can seldom be anticipated. XiEVUS OF THE tongue is another congenital affection occasionally met with. If superficial it may be treated with nitric acid, the tongue being previously dried and held out of the mouth with a towel so as to prevent injury to the surrounding parts. In more extensive nievi, the application of a ligature, which must be passed into the substance of the tongue and tied very firmly, is the best mode of treatment. Congenital Tumor of the Tongue.—A very rare form of congenital tumor of the tongue is recorded by Pr. IlickmaiP as occurring in a new-born child, who died a few hours after birth from sutibcation induced by the tumor. Immediately in front of the epiglottis was a tumor projecting half an inch from the surface of the tongue, and measuring three-quarters of an inch by one-half inch. It proved to be an hy})ertrophy of the normal racemose glandular structures of the part. Congenital Jibro-cellalar tumors of the tongue are occasionally met with, and, being usually pedunculated, are easily removed. Mr. F. Mason has recorded two examples of the kind, which were allowed to remain in situ till adult life.'* Lymphangeioma is a very rare congenital affection of the tongue, and is a variety of hypertrophy in which the lymphatics are principally affected. In 1876,1 had a young woman aged twenty-three under my care, suffering from this affection, the tongue being enlarged and indurated so as to interfere with speech, but not being prolapsed, and the surface being tuberculated and marked with whitish lines which were evidently enlarged lymphatics. AVith the hope of producing some effect I passed setons into the tongue, the only result of which was to set up severe inflammation with 'great temporary dis- tress of breathing, but without any permanent benefit. Glossitis, or inflammation of the tongue, in the acute form, is an affection rarely met with at the present time, and thenisapparently of spontaneous origin. In former days, when the administration of mercury was ordinarily pushed to salivation, the occurrence of glossitis was common, and the swollen tongue protruding from the mouth was looked upon as a proof of successful treat- ment. As some individuals seem to he peculiarly liable to be rapidly affected by small doses of drugs, it may l>e well to bear in mind that iodide of potas- sium and its allies, no less than mercury, may rapidly induce salivation. The swollen, oedematous condition of the tongue in glossitis, may interfere with res})iration sufficiently to demand tracheotomy, but as a rule the inflammation rapidly yields to leeching, or to a free incision on each side of the median line. ' Medico-Cliirurg. Trans., vol. Ixvi. 3 PatLological Society’s Trans., vol. xx. 2 Clinical Soc. Trans., vol. iii. * Ibitl., vols. XV. and xviii.