1005 ABDOMIXAL ABSCESSES. Diagnosis.—A disease to some extent resembling, and often confounded with, abscess of the liver, is inflammation of tlie liver-capsule,known as perihepatitis. It occurs both idiopathically and secondarily, by extension of inflammation to the capsule in cases of hepatitis and hepatic abscess ; and it is very important, owing to the requisite difference of treatment, to distinguish the idiopathic form from that which is a consequence of abscess. Idiopathic perihepatitis simulates pleurisy more than liver-abscess, and, unlike the secondary form, it is not preceded for many days by the symptoms of abscess—viz., loss of appetite, a feeling of malaise, with perhaps rigors and faintness, and some general fulness in the he[)atic region. Moreover, acute peribejtatitis is an illness of days, but one giving rise to sharp pain, febrile excitement, and local tender- ness; whereas liver-abscess, though it is often attended by very ill-deflned signs, is generally the cause of impaired general health, Avith a pale, muddy c(juntenance, for a long time antecedent to the development of acute symptoms. lle})atic abscess seems to have been confounded with distended gall-bladder, Avith cancer, and with hydatid C3’st of the liver; but careful palpation and percussion, Avith due regard to the clinical histoiy of the patient, ought to prevent these mistakes. It must be remend)ered, however, that b^alatid cysts suppurate, and also give rise to suppuration around their Avails. Pneu- monia and pleui’isy of the base of the lung Avill generally be distinguished b}^ their physical signs on auscultation. Tlie prognosis is unfavorable, and especially so if the abscess be of septic origin. Complete recovery may, hoAvever, take place if the pus finds an exit, even though the discharge continue for many months. IIoav much fatigue and exertion a person may endure Avhen the sulqect of hepatic abscess, and jmt recover, after endless journeying and deprivation, is shown by a veiy inter- esting case described by Sir J. Fa^’rer.’ It is supposed that the pus is some- times absorbed, but this is doubtful. An important element in the prog- nosis is the point at Avhich the abscess is likelj' todturst; if rupture take place into the pericardium or peritoneum, death is certain; if into the pleural sac, the result is nearly ahva^'s tatal; abscesses Avhich point out- Avardly at an intercostal space are also unfavorable, but those Avliicb burst in the e})igastrium are much less so. IMorehead, Maclean, and IMacpherson agree in this. Those Avbich open into the stomach, intestine, or lung, are the most favorable. Dr. Harley^ records a recovery from traumatic abscess, Avluch be believes ru])tured into the sac of the small omentum, and thence into the colon. Senae^ states that he has seen an abscess partially penetrate the diaphragm and then burrow beneath the pleura, Avithout getting into the chest. Occasionally one and the same abscess opens by several apertures. If more than one abscess exists tlie prognosis is very unfavorable ; this con- dition may be suspected if improvement does not take place after evacuation of an abscess. If fi’om the ])Osition of the aperture the abscess can not empty itself, hectic, and then death, are only matters of time. The disease some- times proves fatal even before the pus is evacuated. TreaUaent.—When pus has once formed, bleeding, the administration of mercury, and other antiphlogistic measures Avhich are so valuable in idiopathic [)eriliepatitis, are Avorse than useless. The strength of the })atient must be kept iq> by use of the mineral acids, tonics, nourishment, and Avine. Hot fonfenta- tions to the alidomen give great i-elief, and so do leeches, Avhen the general con- dition of the system does not contra-indicate their employment. Opium is genei'ally re([uisite to ease pain, or at least nneasiness, and to }»rocure sleep. As soon as flinduation is detected, the aspirating sjn-inge, adapted to a good- ' I.aiicet, May 1!), 1883. 2 Trans. Clin. Society, vol. iv. 3 Traite ile la structure du C(Bur, etc., tome ii. p. 307.