1122 HERNIA. vomit becomes more constant, and is darker from admixture of extravasated blood, and at last looks entirely like cotfee-grounds; tlie secretions fail, restless sleeplessness ensues, the }>ain ceases, the countenance becomes pallid, sallow, and sunken, a cadaverous smell mingles with the fecal odor of the breath and body, and the patient dies from exhaustion at a period varying from a few days to many weeks. I*ost-mortem examination usualh’ reveals more or less of the results of peritonitis, general, or limited to the region of obstruction. Tbe symiAovis of strangulation may in great part be referred to those of peritonitis, at first local in extent, finally general. If the constriction be severe, or near the upper part of the canal, the pain and distress are cpnckened and intensified on the first onset by tbe pressure upon the numerous nerves of the part, and by sympathetic irritation of the epigastric nerve-centres. Tliere may be veiy early and severe symptoms, causing speedy death—apparently by the impression of the pain upon the nervous system generally, resulting in exhaustion—without any extensive post-mortem appearances of peritonitis. In these cases the pain and distress come on directly after the occurrence of strangulation, and soon become intense, the temperature and pulse rise to- gether, the countenance is pale and very anxious, and the decubitus dorsal, with the knees drawn up to relax the pressure of tlie abdominal muscles. The respirations areshort, cpiick,shallow, and entirely thoracic; and there is usually an unequal, one-sided, spasmodic contraction or catch in the abdominal mus- cles. The pain is attended by a dragging sensation, and is referred constantly to one spot. In cases of hernia it directs the surgeon to one of the usual her- nial openings, where a hard, elastic, tense, and very tender lump, of greater or less size, is found. The cough-im})ulse in the tumor is wanting when tested. The less common, deeper-seated hernife, such as the dia])hragmatic, sciatic, and obturator, wbere the tumor cannot be felt, may be suspected from the position of the i)ain, and from the eftect upon the action of the diaphragm, or upon the nerves, sciatic or obturator, pressed upon by tbe tumor. In other respects than the latter, tliey resemble obscure cases of intra-perito- neal strangulation. The infiammatory symptoms of strangulation consist 4>f the constitutional, feverish symptoms—such as a I'ise in the temperature, quickened pulse and res])iration, diminution of the secretions, and foul tongue —which characterize pyrexia. The temperature rises in the evening, and falls in the morning, after daybreak. The rise does not usually reach as high as ill traumatic injuries of the head; from 102° to 10.5° F. is the usual limit, with exceptional cases ; and the fall is usually proportionate to the rise. The pulse reaches its danger point at 120, and increases in quickness as the case approaches a fatal end. It is always soft and compi'essible, a ])eculiarity which seems to be caused by the inpiression made on the extensive abdomi- nal nerve-centres, and secoiuhvrily u])on tbe cardiac plexuses. To the same cause must be attributed the constant vomiting, the stomach rejecting all food, and the retching commencing earlier and more violently than in more obstruction. Tbe anxious face is often 3'ellow or jaundiced, the decubitus dorsal, with the knees drawn u}), and the breathing short, quick, and thoracic. The local symptoms are great pain, commencing in and usually referred to one s])Ot, but ending in a twisting and dragging jiain around tbe umbilicus, as tbe infiammation extends to the coils of intestine. There is general abdominal tenderness, especially acute as tbe pressure nears tbe strangulated point. Very soon, swelling of tbe alxlomen and tympaidtes on percussion, evidence paralj'sis of tbe intestinal muscles and accunndation of flatus and liquid excretions, attended by the borborygmus and other signs of obstruction already described. The symptoms are less severe when the omentum only is