MORBID GROWTHS OF THE LARYNX. 737 in the interior of the larynx, ami principally upon the vocal band or on the ventricular band (Figs. 1088, 1089), as irregular, spheroidal masses, smooth, nodulated, mammillated, or even somewhat dentritic. Thence the growth may extend outward by infiltration, penetrating not only the membranous, but even the cartilaginous framework of the larynx. The epiglottis seems to be the most common seat of sarcoma of the larynx originating outside of the actual aerial tract. The disease seems to extend oidy by continuity of tissue, and not by lym])hatic involvement or by second- ary formation. It is most frequently seen in patients between the ages of twenty-five and fifty, and far the more frequently in males. Its progress is not apt to be quick, for the first year or two; but it sometimes becomes exceedingly rapid. ^'l/rnptoms.—The subjective symptoms are those of neoplasms generally; dysphonia, dyspnoea, sensation of foreign body, cough, and dysphagia, all varying in intensity with the location, size, and mobility of the tumor. Pain is quite infrequent. The symptoms of a tumor large enough to produce death by suffocation may even be too slight to prompt the patient to seek medical advice. Thus in the unpublished case from which the specimen shown in Figs. 1088, 1089 was taken, and for which I am indebted to Dr. Louis Jurist, one of the Chiefs of Clinic in the throat-department of the .Tetferson Medical College Hospital, the patient, a gardener, sixty-five years of age, liad not applied to a physician until forty-eight hours before his death, which took place within less than twenty-four hours after he had declined to undergo tracheotomy, proposed by Dr. Jurist as the immediate outcome of a laryn- goscopic examination. JJiaynosis.—Sarcoma usually appears as a well circumscribed, hard, sessile tumor, smooth or lobulated, sometimes somewhat dentritic at the surface, the mucous membrane being sometimes paler than normal, sometimes deej)ly congested, sometimes vascular. Superticial ulceration to a limited extent occurs in some instances. These characters are easily recognizable in tbe laryngoscopic image. Dendritic sarcomata may readily be mistaken for papillomata; but a dendritic formation in tbe posterior portion of the larynx would be probably a sarcoma, as papillomata are almost always located an- teriorly. Sarcoma is distinguishable from carcinoma by non-involvement of the lymphatic glands—a fact of the greatest cliiucal value, and accounted for by ]\Ir. Butliu^ in the suggestion that the lynq»hatic vessels become mechani- cally obliterated in the growth of the tumor. The importance of discrimina- tion from benign growths on the one hand, and from carcinoma on the other, renders it essential to remove, with cutting forceps, a small portion of tlie growth for its submission to careful microscopic examination. Prognosis.—Unsubmitted to operation, sai’coma is fatal; death occurs by asthenia, or by suffocative apnooa from occlusion of the air-tract. In eases of extensive disease, recurrence will take place uidess tlie extirpation of the growth has been tborough. If the diseased tissues be entirely removed, the prognosis as to life is rendered favorable. Good results have followed proce<lures involving partial or complete laryngectomy. (See tables in section on Laryngectomy.) Of live patients upon whom total laryngectomy has been performed^ for sar- coma, one, operated upon by Lange, lived nearly seven months; one, by Czerny, nearly fifteen months ; and one, by Foulis, nearly seventeen and a half months ; one, operated on by Caselli, was alive nearly two years (August, 1881) after the 1 Op. cit., p. 14. 2 Transactions of tlie College of Physicians. Philadelphia, 1883. VOL. V.—47