265 STRABISMUS. Drawing the hook forwards till it is arrested by the tendon at its insei'tion, it is held tirrnlj', and the tendon is then divided by a few snips of the scissors from below upwards, subconjunctivally. Then the same or the smaller hook may be swejit upwards, to he sure that no fibres of the tendon altove have escaped; and likewise downwards. If, when this is fairly done, the hook comes forwards under the conjunctiva, close to the cornea, meeting no resist- ance, it is sure that the tendon is entirely detached. By loosening it lietween the hook and the sclera, and as close to the latter as possible, there is no serious sacrifice of the tendon. If ether has not been used, the effect can be tested after a few seconds of closure of the lids by pressure with an iced sponge. If no marked limitation of rotation in the direction of the contracted muscle is perceptible, some shreds of tendon have escaped, above, below, or farther back between the tendinous sidistance and the sclera. The Avound miust then again be explored carefully in these directions, and such filaments, if found, divided. To do this the speculum may be reintroduced, or the eye may he held open by the fingers of an assistant. After tins, another test of limitation may be applied. If ether has lieen used, it will lie necessary to Avait five or ten minutes till consciousness and self-control are regained. For reasons already given, the immediate effect varies in different cases, but if a limitation of from three to four mm. has not been obtained, it is because the tendon has not been com- pletely separated. As a guide in reaching for tlie tendon Avith the blunt hook, it should be remembered that the centre of insertion of the internus is about five and a half mm. from the margin of the cornea, and that the corres- ponding point of the externus is slightly more distant. The same steps are to he taken in operating on the external rectus, remem- bering, however, that a complete tenotomy in this instance does not accomplisli as much as in the former case. Tenotomy of the superior and inferior recti is rarely executed, but is done in the same Avay. The hemorrhage is usually very slight, and the blood is soon absorbed from beneath the conjunctiva. Quick removal of the speculum and ])ressure with a cold sponge readily check it. The vision of a previously amblyopic eye is sometimes immediately much improved. In a little blonde child, six years old, Avith excessive convergence, in Avljose case I practised a double tenotomy, the defective eye, from being able to recognize no letter at fifteen feet, imi)roveAl so that its vision Avas 0.2, as soon as tested. But the improvement, if it continues at all aftenvards, is then much less rapid. I must again exhort the surgeon not to be too impatient to accom[)lish com- plete correction by the first tenotomy, AAdiether single or double. ATiit patiently a few Aveeks or months, enjoining frequent exercise of the Aveak muscles, and using atropine, glasses, stereoscope, separate exercise of the am- blyopic eye, etc., before risking a second operation. This plan is especially to be employed if the squint be convergent, and the remaining deviation slight. If diplopia occurs, it is an encouraging synqitom, and may give Avay to binocu- lar vision; or it may again subside by suppression. In testing the effect produced by a tenotomy of the externus, Ave must he guidetl by the outer edge of the cornea and the external commissure of the lids. Before a successful o})eration, the corneal margin can be rotated beyond the commissure, Avhile uoav it falls short by tivo or three mm. The correcting effect of division of the externus is much less than that of the same operation on the internus. In either case it is Avise to be satisfied Avith slight insufficiency, and not to make extensive dissections or incisions in the capsule. After teno- tomy, esi)ccially of the internus, there is some increased prominence of the globe. This is one of the numerous reasons for operating on both eyes, rather than attempting to accomplish the Avhole correction on one side. The greater