295 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE AURICLE. I never use this instrument as a scraper, hut simply as a dissector, that is, as a means of loosening objects from their underlying attachments. Diseases and Injuries of the Auricle. Eczema.-—-The commonest affection to which the auricle is liable, is eczema. Among the children of the poorer classes it is an extremely frequent disease, and, on careful inquiry, it will generally be found that the cause is of a three- fold nature. In the first place, some direct source of irritation is necessary, and this will usually he found in the shape of a discharge from the external auditory canal. In the next place, in a properly fed, properly washed, and healthy child, the mere presence of a discharge from the meatus should not lead to more than a very limited eczema of the parts immediately boi’dering on the orifice of the canal. Hence we may safely assume, in cases of exten- sive eczematous inflammation of the auricle, that tlie child is neither prop- erly bathed nor properly fed. As tlie result of feeding a child, of from one to five years of age, on pastry, tea, coffee, bananas, salt meats, etc., two things are apt to take place; the discharge from tlie ear assumes a highly irritating, in some instances positively corrosive, character; and the skin, not merely of the auricle, but also of other parts of the head, becomes so prone to in- flammation that the slightest irritation from without suflices to develop a small furuncle, or an inflammation of a more extended character, like that observed in eczema. In adults these three factors^—the presence of an irri- tating discharge from the ear, lack of cleanliness, and an improper diet—■ which are so generally the chief causes of the disease in children, are fre- quently lacking, and Ave are tempted to assume the existence of a constitu- tional vice or predisposition—liy Avhich I mean the circulation, in the blood, of certain elements which keep the skin in an irritable condition. A mere redness and slight infiltration of the skin characterize the disease in its simplest form. When the affection becomes more pronounced, we shall find crusts or scabs covering the inflamed skin. In its most aggravated form, the auricle may present an almost continuous mass of scabs, and beneath them, in some spots, the skin Avill be found to be quite deeply ulcerated. The prognosis of this affection is almost unqualifiedly favorable, though in elderly individuals it sometimes proves rebellious. The treatment should be both general and local. In cliildren, the most important thing is to secure strict cleanliness, botli with regard to the outside parts and with regard to the auditory canal. The child’s diet should then be carefully regulated, and wholesome bread, butter, oatmeal, hominy, milk, fresh meat, 'and simply cooked vegetables, should be substituted for the unwholesome articles of diet which the child has previously been permitted to eat. In adults we may also find it desirable to prescribe a simpler diet, and abstinence from alcoholic beverages. In the majority of cases, moreover, we shall find that the patient does not take sufficient exercise in the open air, and Ave should be careful to direct attention to this point. It is also important to secure free and regular action of the boAvels. The local measures to be employed must vary according to the stage or condition in which Ave may find the eczema. Tims, for example, the auricle may be in a condition of sucli acute inflammation that cooling applications, or even local blood-letting by means of leeches, may be required. Such an acute eczema of the auricle is not often seen, and if the parts are merely red and swollen, we may prescribe at once the free use of an ointment consisting of oil of cade and vaseline, in the proportion of from tAvo to five drops of the former to two drachms of the latter. The stronger preparations, such as