1024 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. be removed, if possible; when this cannot be done, operative measures may at least relieve the patient’s suttering, prolong his life, or even close the abscess, as the case in which I performed colotomy illustrates. "When the abscess is due to reduction en masse, the bowel should be freely exposed, the parts thoroughly cleansed and disinfected, and the ends of the bowel sewn together, after cutting away what remains of the gangrenous tissues. To attempt division of the stricture of the hernia under these circumstances, without uniting the ends of the sloughed bowel, would only be to invite a hasty death by opening up the general cavity of the peritoneum to the putrid contents of the fecal abscess. When the abscess has been caused by the ctecal appendix in a hernial sac, the treatment would be to remove the diseased portion of the appendix, and then to close by sutures the cut extremity, taking care to invaginate the walls so as not to bring two mucous surfaces into apposition by the stitches. The abscesses situated in the iliac fossa, and arising from cfecal or pericfecal disease, or from disease about the sigmoid flexure, should be treated by an early external opening. It is too generally a question in these cases of giving the patient the chance of relief aflbrded by the operation, or of leaving him to die witliout one.^ YIII. Ilio-pelvic Abscess.—Ilio-pelvic abscess is to be distinguished from ilio-psoas abscess. The latter owes its origin generalh' to caries of the lum- bar or lower dorsal vertebrse, but occasionally to disease of the sacro-iliac joint, to strain of the muscular fibres, or to burrowing of a perinephric abscess ; the former has a variety of causes. Ilio-pelvic abscesses are of two sorts, (1) the sub-peritoneal, and (2) the sub-aponeurotic. The sub-peritoneal are prone to spread widely in lioth an upward and a downward direction, reaching tlie kidney, or even burrowing behind the diaphragm, and I’unning in the opposite direction amongst the pelvic organs. Such abscesses are rarely circumscribed, and if not ojiened by the surgeon, are prone to burst spontaneously at some point in the lower part of the belly, or even at the umliilicus. Cases of this character have been described and referred to in the section on Retro-peritoneal Suppuration (see page 950). Berard gives a case in which the abscess, starting in the left iliac fossa, burrowed across the median line in the hypogastric region, and reached the right iliac fossa, ultimately discharging itself at the navel. The abscess followed labor; the patient died. An abscess reaching up to the left iliac fossa, and opening in the linea alba, may arise from a lithotomy inci- sion :—I have known a case in which a sinus opened two inches above the symphysis pubis, and exuded a thick pus, from an abscess on the left side of the true pelvis. The sinus-track led downwards in the fascia transversalis, behind the rectus, as far as tlie left groin ; here it descended vertically behind the longitudinal ramus of the pubis into a large abscess cavity; an ofl'-shoot of the sinus, before dipping thus downwards, ran outwards for a short dis- tance towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and there ended in a cul-de-sae. The lithotomy wound, which was very large and lined Avith phosphates, extended back to tlie level, and just to the left side, of the orifice of tlie ureter, but was shut off from the pelvic abscess referred to. The suh-aponeurotie abscess forms between the fascia iliaca and the iliac muscle. For a time it is circumscribed, but if not evacuated, the pus bur- rows to the front of the thigh, which it reaches by passing beneath Pou- part’s ligament between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the outer edge of "the crural sheath. In some cases the hip-joint has been opened by • See ail article By Dr. Willard Parker. Med. Record, March 1, 1867.