696 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. two or more aeuminations. These tumefactions may continue the sole local manifestations of laryngeal tuberculosis; or extensive suppurative inflamma- tions may take place upon their surface and in their substance. Perichon- dritis and necx’osis are not uncommon, the posterior vocal process being attacked most frequently. Thence tlie disease is often propagated to the bodies of the arytenoid cartilages, which, undergoing necrotic destruction, may be expectorated in minute fragments, or in bulk. Xecrosis of the cricoid cartilage is infrequent, and necrosis of the thyroid quite rare. Syphilitic chronic laryngitis, often subacute rather than chronic, occurs both in the secondary and tertiary stages of syphilis. When occurring within a few months after the primary affection, it is presumptively secondary; when not occurring until after the lapse of a year or more, it is presumptively tertiary. The lesions of the one form sometimes run insensibly into those of the other, so that discrimination becomes quite impracticable. Mucous patches or papules have been detected laryngoscopically in many instances; and from their recognition an unjustifiable inference has been drawn that they are precursors of all laryngeal idcerations in the secondary period. Very frequently, the history of exposure is the sole guide to early diagnosis, the local lesions being indistinguishable from those of non-syphilitic laryngitis until after ulceration has taken place. Symmetric, bilateral distribution of the ulceration, and symmetry in the patches of ulceration, may usually be regarded as factors in the differentiation of syphilitic from tuberculous laryn- gitis. Ulceration, of the epiglottis especially, is one of the earliest pheno- mena in the tertiary stage. Gummata are later manifestations as a rule. Deep and destructive ulceration is the ultimate outcome in the unarrested disease, and this leads to cicatricial stenosis in many cases of recovery. Fig. 1055. Fig. 1056. Gumma in inter-arytenoid fold. Multiple gummata. (Maudl.) Gummata occur singly (Fig. 1055), or in groups, (Fig. 1056), some as small as millet-seed, some as large as hazel-nuts. The gummata are likel}^ to undergo ulceration, and the process fhus set up often extends to the cartilages, entailing great destruction of tissue. Symptoms of Chronic Laryngitis.—The subjective symptoms of ordinary chronic, catai’Vhal and glandular laryngitis, comprise cough, hoarseness, and annoying sensations referred to the part, sometimes of dryness, sometimes as ‘ of the presence of a foreign body. In some instances they are slight; in some they are severe. There is no dyspnoea, little actual pain, and little ex- pectoration. Secretion becomes more abundant under temporary conditions