756 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. ment.^ These experiments were wholly unassociated with any question as to the practicability of such an operation in man. Langenbeck,^ it appears, in 1854, had made favorable mention of the procedure in his Klinik. lleuter^ states that some years before 1870 he had entertained the idea of performing the operation upon a vigorous, middle-aged woman, with a can- croid of the mucous membrane in the neighborhood of the arytenoid carti- lage; an idea which had occurred likewise to Koeherle, in 1856,^ and which had been both entertained and put in execution by Dr. Patrick Ilemy Watson, of Edinburgh, in 1866.® To Vincenz Czerny, of Heidelberg, however, belongs the credit of recommending the performance of this ojie- ration on the human subject, as the outcome of his own .experiments on dogs.® Emboldened by tlie favorable results of Czerny’s experiments. Prof. Bill- roth, of Yieima, deliberately undertook to perform an operation of the same kind on a maid in whom recurrence had taken place within four weeks of attempted extirpation of a carcinoma after splitting the larynx. After the wound healed, an artificial larynx, another device of Czerny’s, constructed according to indications suggested by Gussenbauer, enahlecl the patient to talk with an artificial, monotonous voice. This patient died about one year after the operation, in consequence of recurrence in the cervical glands, com- mencing some four months after he had left the Klinik.® Since this period the operation has been repeatedly performed, chiefly in cases of carcinoma. (See table, page 757.) A case of suicidal exsection of the larynx, in a woman forty-one years of age, has been recorded by Mr. R. C. Harrison.® Deatli occurred in twenty minutes. The second table (page 768) comprises all the records of unilateral laryn- gectomy to which I have had access. Two cases of “ partial excision of the laiynx,” reported by Foulis,'® are not introduced, since they were mere ex- sections of the anterior portion of the cricoid cartilage, and therefore belonged to the category of resection, a much less serious operation. ' Scliiiller, Die Traclieotomie, Laryngotomie, mid Extirpation des Kelilkopfes, S. 197. Stutt- gart, 1880. 2 Ibid. ® Pitlia mid Billroth’s Deutsche Chirurgie. Bd. hi. Abth. 1, Lief. 5 (Traclieotomie und Laryngotomie), S. 99. '* Bergen, Revue des Sciences Medicates, t. ix. p. 298; Am. Jour. Med. Sci., Jan. 1878, p. 268. 6 Foulis, Trans. International Med. Congress, vol. iii. page 255. London, 1881. ® Versuche iiber Kehlkopf-extirpation (Wiener med. Woch., S. 559. 1871). ’ Gussenbauer, Arch. f. klin. Chir., Bd. xvii. S. 343. 1874. ® Gussenbauer, cited by Schuller (op. cit., S. 198). s Brit. Med. Jour., July 21, 1883, p. 115. Trans. Internat. Med. Congress, vol. iii. p. 258. London, 1881.