CRURAL OR FEMORAL HERNIA. 1157 the sheath, and bulges out the cribriform fascia; then, being prevented from passing down the thigh by the close union of the last-named fascia with the coats of the sa[)hena vein (Fig. 111(3 6), and fol lowing the line of least resistance, it turns over the outer edge of the saplienous opening («), and passes upwards and outwards under the integuments (c), lying upon the femoral vessels, and even passing above I’ou- part’s ligament (</), so as to give the ap}tearance of an inguinal bubonocele. It is thus exposed to severe pressure, first from Gimbernat’s ligament and its asso- ciated structures, and the band of Cooper at the crural ring, Avhere the point of strangulation is most fre- cpiently found at or in the neck of the sac itself; and next, from the sharp, curved border of the saplienous opening (lley’s ligament), where the direction of the axis of the sac is changed to one u[»wards and outwards. It follows that the direction of force in the taxis of a complete and lai’ge femoral hernia should be inwards and downwards upon the fundus of the sac, and directly backwards at the neck of the sac, so as to avoid pressing the liruised bowel against the sharp edges which lie above and outside it. It folloivs, also, that wlien an opera- tion is recpiired, the hernia knife should be directed inwards and forwards, so as to divide lley’s ligament and Gimbernat’s ligament together, in a line almost parallel with the superior ramus of tlie puliic bone. If this is not suthcieut to release the bowel, the deep fibres of Poupart’s (constituting Cooper’s) ligament should be further divided by directing the knife more forwards, care being taken, in the male subject, not to cut so far as to divide the spermatic cord in the canal which lies just above tliose structures. Diagnosis of Strangulated Crural Hernia.—This condition may be mistaken for certain local diseases coincidently or causatively attended by constipation, vomiting, nausea, and other alvine symptoms. The most com- mon of these are enlarged fey'^ond glands^ which, when placed upon the saphe- nous opening, or within the crural canal, may resemble closely a small hernia. AVhen not acutely inflamed, they are movalile ; of the characteristic, oval, glandular shape; often multiple; and extending down with their long axes in the direction of the saphena vein. AVhen inflamed, they are indurated and oedematous, tlie pain and tenderness extending down the thigh ; at the same time an examination of the feet will often reveal the cause of the glandular irritation. When sujipurating, the fluctuation in the centre of tlie lobulated and indurated mass will, when punctured, explain the appearances. xA varicose saphena vein, enlarged into a globular tumor at the saphenous opening, increasing in tenseness and size on standing, and disappearing almost entirely on lying down, feeling elastic, and yielding to the touch, may be mistaken for i-educilfle crural hernia. Tlie ap})earance of varicosity in the same vein or in its branches lower down, a certain duskj" complex color, characteristic of varicose vmins, and a want of fulness over the crural canal in the groove over Pouyiart’s ligament, will help to diagnose this condition. The point of a tinger placed firmly on the crural canal while the patient lies down, and the pressure kept up when he changes to the upright position, will keep Inick a hernia; but a varicose swelling will, under the same circumstances, immediately return. But, if in such a vari- cose condition the vein becomes plugged by a clot in the same position ; and if tlie patient is affected witli constipation or nausea at the same time (as lately occnri’cd in a pregnant patient who was under my observation), the Fig. 1146. Diagram of crural hernia.