AFFECTIONS OF THE SEPTUM. 411 strated in a like case, in a young man, the existence of a smooth and solid bony wall, covered on both sides with mucous membrane, occluding the right naris posteriorly. Cohen^ does not state the nature of the obstruction in the case of an infant which he successfully treated. Voltolini operated with the galvano-cautery upon a total occlusion of the right posterior naris, due appar- ently to congenital adhesions, and long mistaken for nasal tumor. Bitot^ has seen an instance, in a foetus of seven months, in which the atresia or obtura- tion of the posterior orifices of the nasal passages was due to the presence of two triangular hones, articulating above with the sphenoid, below with the horizontal plates of the palatine hones, to the outside with the lesser wings of the pterygoid processes, and impinging on each other interiorly. An equally reliable and close post-mortem obseiwation has been made by Luschka^on the cadaver of a girl who died soon after birth. Here the bony framework was formed by the palatal bones on both sides. The posterior, normally free and concave border of the horizontal plate was continued in a somewhat oblique direction upward and backward, to the lower surface of tlie body of the sphenoid bone, being attached to the latter by a serrated edge. Laterally, the bony plate reached the inner side of the lamina interna of the pterygoid pro- cess. In the median line, the lamella joined its fellow at the point where the posterior nasal spine usually arises, while the two, in their further progress upwards, were separated by a very narrow slit, into which the lower ex- tremity of the rudimentary vomer had penetrated. More recently, instances of congenital occlusion have been reported by Gosselin,"* Morton,® Brandeis,® Wilkinson,^ and Ronaldson,® the cause in the last surgeon's case having been a thick, firm membrane. Koch reports a curious case, which may he men- tioned here, viz., one of cicatricial closure of the right posterior naris, follow- ing a scrofulous pharyngo-laryngitis f and, finally, Mackenzie*® relates the following case:— The naso-pliiirynx was separated into two lateral halves by a thin bony partition, continuous anteriorly with the posterior edge of the vomer, and inserted posteriorly into the posterior [)haryngeal wall. Superiorly it became fused with the pharyngeal vault. The septum narium was slightly deflected to the left from before backward; the bony lamella had a similar inclination, and seemed to be in fact a backward pro- longation of the vomer. Its inferior edge was more or less sharp, clearly defined, and curved from before backwards and upwards, presenting a very marked resemblance to the normal posterior curve of the nasal septum. Its insertion into the pharyngeal wall was on a higher plane than that of its origin, which corresponded with the inferior edge of the septum. Attempts were made to dislocate it, but without success. The indication for treatment lies in establishing, by surgical means, an open- ing through the affected nasal passages, at as early a date as possible. In the case of memhranoid occlusion, this may easily he accomplished by means of the knife and subsequent use of bougies, to dilate and keep open the artificial perforation. In Cohen’s case the occluding structures wei’e bored through with a knife and steel p)rohe, and the passage kept open and enlarged, from time to time, by the insertion of a sound, and subsequently of small hits of sponge fastenetl to a holder. When the occlusion is of a dense and bony nature, the employment of the burr of the dental-engine, elsewhere alluded to, suggests itself as the best, quickest, and safest means of perforation. ' Diseases of the Throat, p. .38.5. 1879. 2 Archives de Tocologie. Sept. 1876. ® Der Schhind-kopf, S. 27. TiUiingeii, 1868. '' Grazette Med. de Paris, No. 36. 1877. ® Surgery in tlie Pennsylvania Hospital, jn 333. Phila., 1880. 6 London Med. Record, April 15, 1882. 7 North Carolina Med. Journal, vol. ix. page 305. 1882. ® Edinburgh Medical Journal, vol. xxvi. page 1035. 1880-1 ^ Ann. des nial. de Poreille et du larynx. No. 4, 1878. Archives of Laryngology, vol. iv. No. 3.