12 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. times this procedure, by the removal of pressure over the abscess, pei'mits the pus of a true cerebral abscess to make its way to the sui’face. Sclimucker* narrates the case of a grenadier wlio fell and struck his head against the corner of a stone, whereby a compound depressed fracture of the frontal bone was pro- duced. On the following day trephining, with removal of the splinters and elevation of the bone, restored consciousness. The patient was in the best of spirits until the fifth day, when feverish symptoms set in, followed in twenty-four hours by bulging of the dry and brown dura mater into the trephine-hole. Puncture evacuated upwards of a tablespoonful of laudable pus from a superficial abscess of the brain. The symptoms disappeared, particles of the brain-tissue were cast off, and the patient was well in two months.^ (Gross.) A child of nine years, suffering from a compound depressed fracture of the frontal bone, was trephined by Petit.® Fever with lieadache set in on the night of the fifth day, and on the following day the discolored and distended dura mater bulged into the opening. On being laid open, a tablespoonful of brown, fetid fluid escaped, but the symptoms increased until the night of the eleventh day, when the rapid improvement disclosed that a large abscess had burst, and had saturated the dressings with offensive matter. In two months the cure was complete. (Gross.) Ill certain rare instances, where tbe surgeon has bad good reason to believe in the existence of cerebral abscess, incisions into tbe brain-substance itself bave been successfully made.^ Tbe previous use of tbe exploring needle— or, better yet, tbe aspirating needle—would be proper in sucb cases. I shall now give tbe details of some cases of intracranial abscess tx’eated by incision of tbe dura mater, wbicli will indicate wbat seems to me tbe proper plan to be })ursued under similar circumstances:— An oflicer wais struck on the occi[)ital jirotuberance by a musket-ball. Symptoms of irritation of the brain having set in, Giersch applied the trephine, under the suppo- sition that there was a fracture of the internal table, but the bone was found to be sound, and there was slight purulent effusion beneath it. On removing the dressings a few hours subsequently, the prominent dura mater was punctured, and a considerable amount of bloody matter evacuated. Kapid and complete recovery ensued.® (Gross.) A man struck his head against the corner of a writing-desk, and suffered from severe headache for several months. Mursinna removed three circles of the occipital bone and opened the dura mater, with the effect of giving vent to a very offensive yel- lowish fluid, which he regarded as a collection of disorganized blood.® (Gross.) De La Peyronie trephined the parietal bone of a lad for symptoms which made their appearance on the twenty-fifth day after a blow from a stone. On incising the inflamed dura mater, three and a half ounces of pus, which extended by the side of the falx down to the corpus callosum, escaped.’ Death occurred in a few days. (Gross.) Mr. Dumville, of Manchester, removed a circle of the denuded frontal bone, for supposed abscess of the dura mater, three weeks after a scalp-wound. The membrane was inflamed and perforated at one point, from which, after the insertion and with- drawal of a probe, stinking matter spurted out.® The patient recovered. (Grossf) A man, aged 37 years, was struck over the supraorbital ridge, and marked symp- toms of compression set in at the end of three weeks. Prof. Hughes apjdied the tre- phine at the injured spot, and found fragments of the inner table of the frontal bone depressed on the dura mater, without involvement of the outer table. Upon incising the dura mater and evacuating a quantity of pus, there was an immediate return to consciousness.® (Gross.) ' Vermischte cliirurgische Scliriften, Bd. i. S. 283. 2 This, as well as the following cases, is quoted from a paper on Compression of the Brain, by Prof. S. W. Gross. (Am. Jour. Med. Sciences, new series, vol. Ixvi. p. 40-74.) ® Traite des maladies chirurgicales, t. i. p. 91. 1790. See page 000, infra. ® Rust’s Magazin fiir die gesammte Heilkunde, Bd. ii. S. 127. ® Bruns, Handbuch der practischen Chirurgie, Ahth. i. S. 937. ’ Hist, de l’Acad6m. Roy. des Sciences, p. 212. 1744. ® British Med. Journ., vol. ii. p. 743. 1858. ® Iowa Med. Journ., 1868, p. 34.