538 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. ' Pathological Transactions, vol. xi. 2 Lancet, Dec. 21, 1867. tlie cheek, presenting all the appearance of epithelioma. Upon removing this, by cutting freely ai’Oimd it, I found it connected strongly and deeply with the coronoid process and condyle of the lower jaw, which I had not removed at my former operation, thinking it unnecessary to do more than go well beyond the disease. This case then goes far to confirm the view that “cystic sarcoma” is really.epitheliomatous in its origin, and that its removal should be as free as in cases of more fully recognized epithelioma. But a much wider question is thus opened up, viz., whether, as Mr. Eve believes, eases of multilocular cyst in the lower jaw, accompanied, as they usually are, by more or less solid growth, are also examples of epithelioma. In his Erasmus Wilson Lectures for 1882, Mr. Eve has fully discussed this question, and certainly the fact recorded by myself on a preceding page, of a solid tumor forming after a thirty years’ existence of cystic disease, would tend to show that the malady in (juestion is not as harmless in its course as has hitherto been supposed. Still, the clitncal history of these cases, and also of the cases of ordinary “ cystic sarcoma,” dilfers so completely from that of ordi- nary epithelioma as to rapidity of progress and recurrence after removal, that further observation is necessary before a decided opinion can he arrived at on the whole question. Sarcomata.—Under the term sarcoma, modern pathologists include all tumors composed of tissue which is either embryonic, or which is undergoing one of the primary modifications seen in the development of adult connective tissue (Erichsen). In connection with the jaws, various forms of sarcoma are found, many of which have hitherto been known by other names; and many recurrent growths, formerly called cancers, come properly into this class. 1. Spindle-celled sarcoma is of frequent occurrence about the jaws, forming many of the specimens formerly indiscriminately named “osteo-sarcoma.” Under this heading must be included also the “recurrent fibroid” cases, re- ported by Mr. Holt and IMr. Lawson, in the last of which recurrence took place after three operations, and led—as may be seen in the specimen, which is presei’ved in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England— to enormous reproductions of the disease in the maxillary and temporal regions.* The principal clinical features of spindle-celled tumors of the jaw are rapidity of growth, with invasion of surrounding parts, but no glandular in- filtration, at least in tlie earlier stages. Free removal is essential, because of the tendency to ci’eep along the periosteum beyond the defined tumor, which is common in these cases; and recurrence is frequent. A remarkable featiu’e in the recurrent growths is their tendency to become softer with each recurrence, until the patient dies, Avorn out, with, rarely, secondary deposits in internal organs. In 1867 I removed a very large tumor, probably of this kind, 'which in its growth had destroyed the entire bod}" of the loiver jaw of a man aged 32. The tumor is in the Hunterian IMuseum, and a ivax model, made soon after its removal, is in University College, London. It is of an irregularly oval shape, measuring antero-posteriorly eight inches, and from side to side about five inches. A tumor had been present in the jaAv for some years, but had latterly grown rapidly under the application of quack remedies, and, Avhen the patient came under my notice, lie was nearly starved from the projection of a great mass of the growth into his mouth. The jaw, Avitli the tumor, Avas removed by disarticulating on one side and saAving through the ramus on the other, Avithout any great loss of blood, but the patient died on the sixth day.^