INJURIES OF THE EYEBALL. 197 Nothing but persevering and heroic treatment can destroy such cysts. I have repeatedly dealt with cysts of the ethmoid bone in a similar wa^L They encroach upon the orbit, interfere Avith the tear-sac, push the eye to one side, and demand treatment. Where the shell of bone over the cyst is thin, a pecu- liar feeling and crepitus are detected, Avhen it is pressed Avith the finger. In one instance this Avas very striking. Tumors of the optic nerve usually destroy vision, and the protrusion is in the direct line. In rare cases, the tumor and nerve have been removed, leaAung the eye, but, as a rule, the useless eye is sacrificed, for fhe readier removal of the tumor. Vascular tumors of the orbit, always attended by pulsating exophthalmus, present very different appearances, on post-mortem examination. In some, Avhere this symptom Avas intensely marked, and a shrill bruit Avas audible over the eye, but little alteration Avas found after death, and this mostly in the cavity of the cranium. As a rule, these symptoms are found to be due to a traumatic rupture of the carotid artery in the cavernous sinus. I have seen but tAVO cases of genuine aneurism of the ophthalmic artery. One Avas pro- duced by a small shot that penetrated the orbit and Avounded the artery. It Avas cui’ed by compression. I published, many years ago, a case of very great protrusion of the eye, Avith pulsation, and a loud bruit, attended by optic neuritis. The papilla Avas greatly SAvollen, the vessels Avere very tortuous, and there Avere numerous hemorrhages in the retina. A cart-Avheel had passed over the man’s head a short time before the disease developed. The late Prof. II. E. Eoote, at my request, ligated the carotid artery with tem- porary benefit. Six Aveeks after, the murmur and pulsation having returned, he tied the other artery, Avith the result of effecting a complete cure. In nearly all cases of tumor behind tlie eye, the exophthalmus and impaired sight are united Avitli great swelling of the optic disk from venous stasis. In a man seen recently, with great prominence of the eye and but little sight, the sAVollen papilla Avas remarkable. It stood out into the vitreous Avith its round form perfectly defined, and the Amssels passing up over it as if springing up on an artificial mound. By deep pressure at the upper and inner part, the edge of the retro-bulbar groAvth could be felt. Operative interference Avill soon bo imperative. A malignant tumor of tbe orbit, in a little girl, became so large and producetl such pressure, that in the midst of a fearful paroxysm of pain the Avhole superior maxillary suddenly separated from its fellow Avith an audible noise. The pain ceased instantly, and the teeth of that side projected half an inch Ijeyond the line of the others. The detachment was from the median raphe. The child died a few Aveeks afterAvards from invasion of the brain. The enormous size that these fatal growths attain, is almost beyond belief. In such extremities, death is a most welcome visitor. Injuries of the Eyeball. That the eye is a delicate orgam is best knoAvn to the surgeon acquainted with its sensitive structures and ex(|uisite functions. In spite of the bony safety-box in Avhich it is so nicely pivoted, the fatty cushion behind, and the Avatchful shutters in front, the eye is often surprised and seriously injured. Always open during the Avakeful hours, it Is constantly exposed to the vapors and fine dust of the atmosphere. Cinders and other jiarticles driven by the wind, often strike the eya and fix themselves upon it, causing great sutier- ing. It Avould be impossiljle to enumerate all tbe parts of seeds and grains, scales of insects, and otlier trifies, for Avhich there is no room in tbe eyes!