INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 880 3 Ibid. * Ibid., vol. xiii. p. 9. tlie accident, and on tlie fifth day a quantity of granular matter, -with uric acid crystals, a little blood, and some easts, were voided in the urine. On the seventh day the urine was clear, and on the tenth the hoy seemed well and continued so afterwards. In this case, though the organ must certainly have been severely contused, one cannot but suppose that recovery would have been less ra|>id if the kidney had been ruptured. After injury to the kidney or ureter, the symptoms are sometimes too obscure or insufficient for accurate diagnosis. In Stanley’s^ two cases, the ui'ine was passed naturally and freeljq and there were no symptoms leading to a suspicion of injuiy to either ureter or kidney, until a large tumor from which fluid containing urea was drawn away, formed in the right hypo- chondrium of one, and in the lumbar region of the otlier. In Poland’s case,^ which I had the opportunity of watching when Senior House Surgeon at Guy’s Hospital, the iirecise nature of the injuiy remained doubtful up to the time of death, owing to the almost entire absence of urine during the six days tlie patient lived. The absence of urine was due to thrombosis of the renal vessels of one kidney, and the rupture of the pelvis of, and extrava- sation of urine from, the other kidney. Thrombosis of tbe renal vessels, as a result of violence to the lumbar region of the spinal column, is a possible occurrence, and should he remembered in relation to renal injuries, and to su]ipression of urine after injury to the back. Hr. Moxon^ has described a typical sample of nearly corn])lete obstruction of both kidneys, in a man aged twenty-two who was struck in the back by an engine. If after the collapse from an abdominal injury bas passed ofi:*, pain in the hypochondriac or lumbar region continues, and there is vomiting and anxiety of countenance—if moreover the urine contains blood aiu.1 blood-casts gradu- ally diminishing in quantity for from three or four to six or seven days or longer, and if convalescence is slow—the suspicion that some contusion or laceration has occurred is justly aroused. If after the abdomen lias been run over, or the person has fallen or been struck on the abdomen or loin, faint- ness, coldness, vomiting, and abdominal pain follow; if on the day of, or the day after, the accident, and whether the catheter be required or not, the urine is found to contain a quantity of blood and blood-clot; and if after several days blood-clots continue to pass, or pus as well as blood is voided in the urine; if moreover there is pain along the course of the ureter, Avith retrac- tion of the testis, or a rigid and prominent state of some of the muscles ot one side of the abdomen, with frequent desire to micturate; or, finally, if a tumor, dull on percussion, forms in the loin, or lumbar or hypochondriac region of the abdomen, accom})anied or not Avith signs of local peritonitis, there are safe grounds for believing that either the kidney or its pelvis has been ruptured. The passage of blood-clot along the ureter into the bladder, is a source sometimes of great suffering, and of cystitis. The clots irequentl}^ assume the shape of the pelvis of the kidney, sometimes they are long, Avorm-like casts Avhich liaA^e been moulded in the ureter, and sometimes they are blood-casts of tbe uriniferous tubes. The latter are frequently seen if looked for after slight injuries, such as contusions of the kidney. If the bleeding is not excessive, these \-arious clots cease to pass after a few days. A typical and instructive case, the notes of Avhich I took Avhen dresser to the late Mr. Hilton, Avas made the subject of a valuable clinical lecture* by that philosophic surgeon;— The case Avas that of a man aged twenty-one years, Avho was struck by the buffer of an engine. On admission, he vomited, and complained of great pain in the abdomen just ' Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii. 3 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d series, vol. xiv.