INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 576 "When there is great hypertrophy or other enlargement of the thyroid bodies, the isthmus may cover the whole of the front of the windpipe, and form a pyramidal body, ascending even to the hyoid bone. Compression of the windpipe, and impeded tiow of blood, both in the veins and arteries of the neck, may be produced by the mechanical pressure of the thyroid lobes and isthmus, and so disturbance within the cranium may follow. When enlarged, the bloodvessels in the isthmus may become formidable and dangerous to wound. The trachea gets deeper and deeper as it descends to the chest, and in fat persons may, as it passes behind the sternum, be an inch and a half distant from the surface. The thymus may present itself in young children as a considerable tumor in the supra-sternal notch. In exceptional cases it has been known to rise high up in front of the neck.^ Lymphatic glands, the first of the bronchial chain, also lie above the notch. They occasionally enlarge and suppurate profusely, in young, delicate persons, and as a pulsation is communicated to the abscess by the great vessels wdiich lie close to it, such a swelling has been mistaken for aneurism of the arch of the aorta. A deep and unsightly scar is often left after the healing of such suppurations. If these glands become much enlarged, they may by their pressure produce “ false croup.” The distance between the top of the sternum and the vertebral column, is on an average two inches; that between the cricoid and the sternum, when the neck is in its usual position, is about an inch and a half; but in paroxysms of dyspnoea, these two points may be closely approximated. In front of the trachea, arranged chiefly in a longitudinal direction, lie the thyroid veins, and, it may be, an anterior jag alar vein. Numerous Ij’mphatic glands also exist close to the windpipe. Behind the thyroid veins lies, in those unusual cases in which it exists, the middle thyroid artery, first described b}^ Heubauer. Originating from the aorta, it passes straight up in front of the trachea to the isthmus, and would of course cause a compli- cation in tracheotomy. Tlie oesophagus, at first placed behind the larj’nx, comeS to he deflected to the left side so that it can he opened clear of the windjjipe. Deep in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, on either side, lie the recurrent laryngeal nerves. They are not disturbed when the oesophagus is reached by ISTelaton’s method of keeping close to the trachea in order to avoid the carotids. It may be here noted that neither the shape, consistence, color, nor movements during deglutition, form reliable guides to the oesophagus when it is to be opened on the living subject. It is only by feeling for the foreign body (if one be present), or better still, by passing down a sound from the mouth, that confidence and safety in opening the gullet can be insured. Both the superficial and deep layers of the cervical fascia meet in the mid- dle line of the neck, but the platysmas (which are inclosed in the fascia) only do so at the upjier part. The pre-tracheal muscles lie on either side of the middle line, and are united by the aponeurosis which crosses over it. The windpipe and oesophagus are very movable, both laterally and vertically, in consequence of the loose bed of cellular tissue in which they lie. This freedom of motion is essential to their function, but it iiicreases the difficulty of the operator in dealing with them. The sheath of fascia which incloses the trachea and oesophagus, accompanies them into the chest, so that pus getting access to its interior ma}" pass into the mediastinum. The writer has known a post-pharyngeal abscess to cause death by bursting into the chest. ' Allau Burns, Observations on the Surgical Anatomy ot the Head and Neck, 2d ed. Glasgow, 1824.