76 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. having a covering of endotlielial cells upon the surface next to the brain, the relations of this membrane to its subjacent connective tissue differ from those of any other serous membrane, a difference which probably accounts for the peculiarities of limitation of inflammation just described. Accumulations of perfectl}^ clear, or slightly turbid serum, sometimes take place in the ventricles after head injuries. They generally coexist with inflam- mation of the membranes. Again, these effusions may take place slowly, when the head symptoms will be long delayed, and will probably concern the physician rather than the surgeon. When, however, the effusion takes place rapidl}’, with a scalp wound and bare bone, as in a case reported by Ilewett, an error in diagnosis is very liable to occur, and the trephine may be resorted to with the expectation of evacuating pus between the dura mater and bone. A middle-aged man received a scalp-wound by a fall in the street, which did not denude the bone. Aftei’ prolonged collapse be reacted, and bad most furious delirium, requiring restraint. The day before lie had had, for the tirst time in his life, some kind of convulsive tit, but unattended with frothing at the mouth. The day following he com- [ilained of violent pain in the head, which persisted despite of treatment until the sixth day, when the scalp-wound became oedematous, and the bone denuded. Early in the morning of tlie seventh day the man suddenly began to hiccough, and became com- jiletely comatose, with normally acting pupils, a feeble, running pulse, and no stertor in respiration. A trephine was apjilied, after consultation, over the exposed bone, with the hope of evacuating matter from between the skull and dura mater ; none was found, both the membrane and bone being healthy. The patient died unrelieved tlie same evening. Some serous Jeffusion was found in the subarachnoid tissue, especially at the base of the brain, but the membranes were normal, and the pia mater was not congested. The ventricles were dilated, being tilled with a large amount of serum, and the cerebral tissue was oedematous and softened. A small tubercular deposit was found in one of the cerebral convolutions of the base, but elsewhere none others were discovered, while all the organs of the trunk were normal.^ Tins case bears out the advice wliich I have given with regard to trephin- ing for intracranial supimration; there were no pressure signs to warrant the belief that operation could afford relief. Cerebritis.—As we have just seen, the cortical substance may be affected in inflammations which have reached the pia mater from whatever source. This form of cerebritis, however, is probably secondary to meningitis. In some cases of concussion, without laceration of the brain or ecchymosis into its substance, I have said that intense, general congestion may result. In such cases a cortical cerebritis supervenes, which we occasionally have an oppor- tunity to investigate. I say occasionally, since simple concussion rarely pro- duces a fatal inflammation. In the early stages of this form of cerebritis, tlie gray matter is swollen, soft, and of a dark-red color, and covered by a mark- edly congested pia mater, which, when stripped off', is apt to bring away soft- ened portions of brain-tissue. At a later period, exudation takes place into the pia mater, and the dark cortical substance is so softened that it readily washes aivay under a gentle stream of water, leaving the white matter bare, much congested, but not softened. The extent of implication of the brain- cortex is variable, but it may even occupy a whole hemisphere, except the base, which in most cases is unaff'ected. Brain-contusion and brain-laceration are the most common causes of trau- matic cerebritis, and this can be detected should the patient survive for only a few hours. The first change noticed is a congestion of the brain, which impli- ' Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 623.