DESCRIPTION OF INSTRUMENTS, ETC. 3G1 devised a long tube of metal or bard-rubber, ending in an expansion similar to that of the ear speculum (3-7 mm. in diameter, and 10-12 cm. in length), by means of which, when it has been introduced into and through the nasal Fig. 910. Pig. 911. Thudichum’s nasal speculum. passage, the pharyngeal orifice of the ETistacliian tube and the posterior wall of the pharynx liecome visible. Voltolini, Trbltsch, Roth, and others, use a double-bladed metal speculum, in which, after introduction, the blades Fig. 91i Fig. 913. are separated by a screw arrangement at the handle. Schnitzler has modi- fied this instrument liy making longitudinal openings along the blades, to permit a lateral inspection. Elsberg uses a trivalve speculum similar to the tracheal dilator of Laborde; Thudichum, one in which two riarrow metallic lilades ai’e separated by the resiliency of a bowed spring of wire, which holds them attached to each other. It is well adapted to facilitate operations upon the nasal passages. Einally, a hook, a bent liair-pin, a probe, or some ecpially sim- ple instrument often suffices, by pulling the wing of the nostril aside, to allow of a good view being obtained of the deeper parts of the passage. Rhhioscopic Mirror.—Specially constructed mir- rors are not necessary for rhinoscopic purposes, though many have been devised. Those of Eraen- kel, Voltolini, Mackenzie, and Stork, are perhaps the best known, but the comliination of tongue spatula and mirror that exists in some of these, is inconvenient and often impracticable, and the same may be said of tbe a})paratus of Duplay, which aims to combine a retractor for the soft-palate with tlje mirror. The ordinary rhinoscopic mirror resem- bles precisely that used for laryngoscopic examina- tion, except that it is usually smaller, and that the glass stands at nearly a right angle to the shaft, or that this is bent somewhat in the form of an italic H (Lennox Browne). The glass is circular, is covered with amalgam posteriorly, has a plane reflecting surface, and is set in German silver. Its