INJURIES OF THE EYEBALL. 205 A still more interesting case occurred in my practice, some years ago. An old gentle- man received an accidental discharge of birdshot in his face, with immediate total extinc- tion of sio-ht in both eyes. Two days afterwards I saw him, and found his condition, briefly, j as follo\^Ts : The right eye was collapsed and riddled by shot, and there were numerous ■; marks of others that had entered the face and lids of the san\e side. The left side of the ;; face showed only one mark of a shot in the lower lid, opposite the edge of the bony orbit. j Tlie pupil was largely dilated and fixed, with bare perception of light. Otherwise the l|| eye was intact, and the ophthalmoscope revealed absolutely nothing wrong. The disk , j appeared natural in all respects, and moderate pressure with the finger on the globe fl produced the usual visible pulsations of the arteries on its surface, showing that tlie ' main retinal arterv, as it enters the trunk of the nerve a little back of the globe, and ■ follows in its axis to the interior of the eye, had not been injured. I diagnosed injury n of the optic nerve some distance behind the globe, beyond the point at which it receives the artery. The patient suffered great pain in the right eye, for which I was induced at | last to enucleate it. One shot was found in the bottom of the vitreous, but the others | had passed entirely through, into the orbit. He was altogether free from pain afterwards. , The vision of the left eye gi-adually returned, so that he could see to walk about, re- i! cognize persons, and read large print. The optic nerve showed moderate white atrophy. j All enumeration of all tlie kinds of foreign body that have been known to penetrate the eye would be an impossible task. The most common are pieces :: of metal, percussion-caps, fragments of stone or wood, and shot. Sometimes i! we are surjirised to find the foreign body very ditierent from what we had expected from the history of the accident and the nature of the wound or cicatrix. For instance, a little boy, five years old, was amusing himself by exploding caps, j laying them on the pavement and striking them with a stone. A fragment struck the inner segment of the cornea, and made a wound of about one line in length. For some days he did not suffer mucli pain, and his physician thought the injury was not serious. At length, the inflammation and pain increasing, he was brought to me. The iris was discolored, and pressed forward almost in contact with the cornea ; tlie lens was opacpie ; i the foreign body had evidently passed through the cornea, the iris, and into or through | the lens. It was not possible to detect it. I enucleated the eye, expecting, of course, il to find a piece of cap in it. After severing the recti muscles I jiassed my finger behind ' the globe to luxate it. The pressure caused the corneal wound to open, and the soft opaque lens escaped from the eye. I caught it, fortunately, and dropped it into the i basin. On finishing the operation, and opening the eye very carefully, I found no piece of cap ; the lens in the basin was then examined, and a small piece, not of the cap, but n! of stone, was found in it. jij Another time, an eye had been extinguished by the sudden discharge of a gun- cartridge. The evidences of penetration, and of the presence of a foreign body dee[> in the eye, were clear. I discovered in tlie enucleated eye a piece of mother-of-pearl! , On careful inquiry, the patient confessed that he liad been foolish enough to strike the cartridge with his pearl-handled knife ; the cartridge exploded, and all tliat he ever saw ' of the knife was the piece of pearl found in the vitreous. Another man, while handling some pieces of wood, felt something, he did not know what, strike Ins left eye. It produced a triangular, incised wound of the cornea, injured j the lens, and caused cataract. Sight was lost at once, and for seven weeks he suffered constant pain. At that time the cornea was flattened, opaque in the centre, and appa- i :' rently drawn down by the cicatrization; the ball was tender to the touch, over tlie ciliary ij region ; tlie sclerotic and ciliary zone were intensely injected. On removal, the vitreous jl was found liquid ; the retina in position, but in thickened, opaque folds. Corresponding to the corneal wound was a cicatricial, tense ridge, or band, running across the ciliary i processes, and having a firm, fibrous feeling ami resistance. Within this cicatrix was I'j included an eyefas/q lying in the direction of the cicatrix, with the bullious end farthest ||' from the cornea. No other foreign substance was found ; the wounding body had car- il ried the cilia in, and had left it, after rebounding. ’ 5