777 LARYNGECTOMY. by Dr. Lange (Fig. 1095), in tbeArcliives of Laryngology. A defect of this kind interferes materially with the function of (leglutition, and necessitates quite a complicated appliance as a substitute for the missing tissues. Artificial Larynx and Artificial Phonatory Apparatus.—Czerny’s original experiments included the adjustment of an artilicial appliance to replace the exsected larynx, and to re-establish a respiratory tract by way of the pharynx and the nasal passages; his object lieing, in addition, to interpose, in the human subject, a phonal reed to serve as a substitute for the voice. This object was kept in view in the very first laryngectomy undertaken on the authority of his experiments, and an appliance constructed on a design by Gussenbaiier, was introduced into thepharyngo-tracheal canal of the patient upon whom Billroth had verified the accuracy of Czerny’s indications.^ It consisted essentially of a tube containing a vibratory reed, intended to be placed at will in the air-space of a sort of h" shaped canula, the ii}»per limb of which reached into the pharynx, and the lower limb iido the trachea, while the small horizontal limb was directed forward ; such a canula, in fact, as had been used liy Richet and others, to re-establish respiration by way of the natural passages, after tracheotomy for strictiu’c of the larynx or other oli- struction. The entire a})pliance comprised three tidies; 1, a tracheal canula, with a large fenestrum on its convex surfaco; 2, a pharyngeal canula with a similar fenestrum, to he passed through the first one in a reversed direction, so tliat the two apertures should meet and permit an unobstructed current from the bottom of the lower one to the top of the upjier one, thus far repre- senting the old appliance alluded to; and 3, a short adjustable tube fitting into the pharyngeal tube, and supplied with a plate carrying a vibratory reed. The ap- paratus being in position, the expiratory current on its way to the mouth sets the reed into vibration, producing a sound as in the reed of an instrument of music; and the tone thus produced, broken with articulate speech, serves as a substitute for normal voice. The tone is monotonous, modulation being impracticable. The reed-case is made detachable, so that it can be freed from mucus from time to time. The original apparatus was supplied with a substitute for the epiglottis, maintained ei’ect by a watch- spring weak enough to yield readily to the descent of the base of the tongue in deglu- tition. This has heen found unnecessary, however, and rather in the way. Gussen- bauer’s tube has undergone a number of modifications, three of which are of si>ecial value. First, the reversal of the mechanism of the two air-tuhes, so that the pharyngeal air-tube is introduced first, and the tracheal tube through it. Second, grooving the in- terior of the })haryngeal tube so that the plate carrying the reed can be shoved in and withdrawn after the manner of a table- drawer. These suggestions (Fig. 1096) have emanated from Dr. Irvine, of Fig. 1096. firial phonatory apparatus. (Mackenzie, after Foulis.) .1. Pharyngeal limh. B. Tracheal limb. C. The phonatory reed. 1 Arcli. f. kliii. Cliir., Bd. xvii. S d49. 1874.