20 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. firm impaction generally exists ; and even where they occupy different planes, it is oftentimes a matter of surprise to observe how firmly they resist eleva- tion, although further depression may be effected. In all depressed, comminuted fractures, the inner table is, as a rule, much more extensively shattered than the outer. Bendiiig of Bone uithout Fracture.—I do not believe that traumatic depres- sion of the skull can occur in the adult without fracture. In the child, such an accident has been frequently reported, but as I have been unable to find any account of a post-mortem examination of such a case, I can neither affirm nor deny the fact that none of the liony fibres give way. I am inclined to think, however, that in the young child, before co-ossification of the different cranial bones has taken place, such an accident might occur, with simple rupture of a few of the fibres on the side of extension, but no iissuring of the bone.' The most curious distortions of the skull result from these bendings of the calvaria, which are apt to involve a large extent of such bones as the parietal, frontal, or occi}»ital. ISlo fracture can be detected, and the depression is smooth, and commonly ovoidal, although the late Professor Gross reported several cases where some of the normally convex portions of the skull were sim[ily flattened, with exaggerated pro- jection of the other segments. I have seen a long, linear depression, which resulted from a fall against the edge of a marble step. Sooner or later, generally within a few days, these depressions resume tlieir normal level. Intra-Utcrine Fractures of the Skull.—Some authors teach that a blow upon the abdomen of a preg)iant female may produce a cranial fracture, but do not bring forward any cases in support of this view. I am exceedingly skeptical of the accuracy of any such observations. Undoubtedly, in tedious labors, with a disproportion between the foetal head and the maternal bones— however caused—such accidents have been reported. Sometimes the arm has been interposeol between the foetal head and the cranium, while at other times no assignable cause has been manifest. Occasionally the labor is neither tedious nor severe, and the pelvis may he of normal size. The parietals are the bones usually involved, or the parietal and frontal. Sometimes tlie occi- ’ The result of examination of fractures occurring during unassisted labor would seem, how- ever, to negative this view. See p. 21. Fig. 825. Fig. 826. Depressed fracture of outer table of skull. Fracture of inner table of skull. From same specimen as Fig. 82.5.