INJURIES OF THE CHEST. HO 4 matic lieruiie have no sac. Baudeiis and subsequently Guthrie advocated 0})ei‘ative measures for tlie relief of strangulation in these hernitn, occurrinsf as a complication of wounds of the thorax, hut the success of active treat- ment remains to he proved; conditions will readily occur to the mind of au}- lu-actical surgeon, which, being recognized, might be made the subject of treatment, successful at least in averting death by strangulation of the intestine; hut the difficulty of rightly appreciating the particular symptoms in tlie midst of the general disturbance following on either contusions or penetrating wounds of the chest, has hitherto, as has been said, relegated the cases which have not of themselves ended in recovery, to the doubtful benefit of a ])Ost-mortem diagnosis. There is ample evidence to prove that, short of the occurrence of intestinal strangulation, these hernia; ai’e capable of pro- longed existence without direct risk to life, so that a stud}- of their various histories does not incline me to advocate a hasty abandonment of expectant treatment, even should the surgeon be fortunate enough to arrive at a correct diagnosis. As wounds of the diaphragm fail to unite, and remain ])ermanently oi»en, the extension of the opening by an operation could only add to the risks b}’ causing further increase of the hernia. If the operation is to be undertaken, some means must be devised to obtain closure of the ojtening in the diaphragm. In the conditions arising from a recent grave Avonnd of the thorax and abdomen, it seems hardly probable that success could follow an operation which would necessarily be, if its details should ever be worked out, most difficult in execution and most prolonged. AVounhs of the Chest. Xox-PENETRATiNG AA^ouNDS.—Wouiids of the tliorax are classified as, first, siq.erficial, involving only the parietes external to the i)leural membrane ; and, secondl}’, })enetrating. The contrast in the mortality attending these groiqis respectively, is such that, in studying them, attention becomes instinctively fixed on the graver. The statistics of the last year of the American AA^ar of the Kebellion (18b4-t!5), exhibit in the fullest manner this contrast: — AV'omuls of the tlionicic parietes, 3970. Deaths, 54. Penetrating wounds of tlie chest, 3203. “ 1070. Again, of the entire number of gunshot fiesh wounds recorded during the war, 11,549, one hundred and thirteen died, but in these—- Deatli was not always due to the immediate or even remote effects of the injury. Fifteen fatal cases of pyiemia, five of tetanus, eleven of hospital gangrene, eleven of hemorrhage, one of erysipelas, and nine of pulmonary complications—including six cases of pneumonia, two of hydrothorax, and one of empyema—in these fifty-two cases, the injury and death were doubtless directly (lonnected as cause and effect; of fifty cases, in which the fatal issue was referred to diarrhcca and dysentery in nineteen cases, to typhoid fever in twelve, to exhaustion in fifteen, to consumption in two, to anmmia and anasarca in two, it is difficult to determine what relation, if any, existed between the injuries and deaths. Finally, in eleven cases—two of malarial fever, two of cerebritis, one of peritonitis, one of diphtheria, and five of smallpox—it is fair to conclude that the original injuries were less closely connected with the fatal results than were hospi- talism and otlier morbific causes, it appears then, that in uncomplicated, superficial gunshot wounds of the soft coverings of the chest, the mortality is exceedingly small, 'fhey commonly cause but little ])ain, and seldom interfere with the ex]doration of the lungs by auscultation. They have the disadvantage, however, of healing very slowly, especially when they produce a long groove or canal, or a fistulous track beneatli the skin or through the muscles, forming what the French denominate plaies e?i s^ton.