577 CONTUSIONS OF THE NECK. This sheath is connected on either side with that of the great bloodvessels, and in front with the omo-clavicnlar aponeurosis before alluded to. From all that has been said, it is apparent that tracheotomy may become one of the most difficult and anxious o^ierations, especially in young children with short fat necks, who have had sinapisms and poultices applied, and in whom the veins are distended from impeded respiration, especially if the thymus be also enlarged. From the tenor of what has been said, it may be inferred that the middle line of the neck, from the chin to the sternum, is the safest place for incisions to be made. The structures become more and more dangerous to interfere with, as we diverge on either side. In all cases in which it is [lossible, deep ab- scesses lying near the middle line are best got at by an incision in the centre, followed by the use of dressing forceps inserted along the groove of a director, as recommended by Mr. Hilton. Other positions in which incisions can be made with safety, are along the line of the lower jaw and behind thester- no-mastoid, where, too, the director and forceps should be employed for com- pleting the deeper parts of the incision. Finally, the space which intervenes between the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid and the anterior limit of the trapezius^ is of much interest to the surgeon. It varies considerably in extent according to the development of these muscles. The posterior belly of the omo-hjoid can, in thin persons, be seen like a cord running athwart the neck, nearly parallel to tlie clavicle. The pulsations of the subclavian artery can also be detected close to the external edge of the sterno-mastoid, which edge again closely corresponds to the outer border of the sccdenus, the first guide to the ligature of the subclavian in the third part of its course. The artery can be here com- pressed by the thumb (the surgeon standing behind the patient), or by a padded key-handle or roller-ltandage pressed downwards and somewhat inwards, so as to bear directly on the tubercle of Lisfranc. Lastly, the exter- nal jugular vein is visible in many people between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius. As was before remarked, the neck escapes injury in a remarkable manner through the great protection afforded it by the head and shouldei’. Yet coiitu- sions and wounds (homicidal and suicidal), burns, and morbid growths of various kinds, have to be dealt with. In the following remarks, injuries of the spine are not considered, nor are affections of the larynx, trachea, and cesophagus; nor yet the affections and operations connected with the great vessels of the neck, these subjects being all discussed in other articles. Contusions op the Heck. Contusions of the neck, if violent, may cause insensibility, and even death, from shock or spasm. The hyoid bone, or the laryngeal cartilages, may be broken or crushed. It is well known that these structures may be seriously injured by the grasp of a garrotei’, or by the rope in hanging, or by the passage of a wheel, or by a fall on a pointed body. A violent blow with the fist alone may very seriously injure the larynx,and be followed by dangerous symptoms.^ Fractures of the hyoid, may im|»licate the body or the wings. The frag- ments may be displaced, or not. This accident is said to have been caused by muscular action alone. (Ollivier.) Tbe fi-agments may project so as to cause a visible deformity. The cartilages may be driven inwards or to one ' Lalesque, .Jour. Hebdomad., Mars, 1833; Anberge, Revue M6dicale, Juillet, 1835; Orlila, Medecine L6gale. VOL. V.—37