INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 944 puncture a loop, the two ends of which are confided to an assistant; a second thread is passed in the same manner across the posterior wall. Then abandoning the upper end, the surgeon proceeds with his finger, or still better, with the dissecting forceps, to double the lower end inside itself, so that the serous membrane is on the inside. Having done this, the left index finger is introduced to sustain it and serve as a conductor for the needles. The two needles of tlie anterior loop are taken and passed in turn along the radial border of this finger from within outwards, through the double part of the inferior end, and brought out at a distance of one line from each other. The needles of the posterior loop are conducted in the same way on the ulnar side of the finger, traversing the intestine at that spot. The two ends of the intestine are then gently brought together, and when almost mouth to mouth, the finger is withdrawn ; and on gently pulling the ends of the threads, with the aid of a round, polished body, the upper end is by degrees introduced into the lower. The intestine is then reduced into the abdo- men, and the threads twisted together, brought out at the lower angle of the external wound, and fastened to the parietes by plaster. On the fourth or fifth day the cicatrix is formed, and tlie threads may be withdrawn. Jobert relates two cases of this opera- tion both patients died within a few hours. Dr. Gross, and MM. Begin, Reybard, and Petrequin have made experiments with this method. It is generally deprecated on account of its difficulty, the violence done to the parts, the uncertainty of its results, and the impossibility of distinguishing the lower extremity of the intestine with certainty. b. Method of Denans (1826) The surgeon employs three small hollow metallic cyl- inders. He places one in each end of the intestine ; after which a portion of each end is doubled into its respective cylinder. The third cylinder, which is somewhat smaller, is then introduced inside the two others, in such a manner as to act as a rod, axis, or support to both. A noose of thread embraces them, and secures all the three on two different points of the intestinal circle. The ends of the suture are divided near the peritoneum, and tlie whole is returned and left in the belly. The agglutination of the parts soon takes place; everytliing which is pressed between the three cylinders becomes gangrenous and detached, and the rings, becoming free, are carried off by stool. Denans simplified this process still more by doing away with the sutmes, which he found unnecessary. Who would venture to leave the intestine in this manner in the belly ? Wlio would guarantee that the metallic tubes would not perforate the intestine ? c. Method of Lemhert (1826) The surgeon passes with a needle as many nooses of thread as he wishes to make points of suture, tirst through the thickness of the walls of the upper end of the bowel and afterwards through those of the lower end. He introduces the point of this needle upon the external sui’face of the gut at the distance of two or three lines from the wound, causes it to make its way through the tissues as far down as the mucous membrane, brings it out at two lines distant from its place of entrance, and succeeds in tins manner in adjusting his noose of thread. He then applies his needle with the same precaution upon the external surface and into the tissues of the rectal end of the bowel. He introduces successively and in the same manner the number of threads which he deems advisable, and afterwards knots them in order to complete the suture. By making traction upon nooses of this kind, the lips of the wound are com- pelled to become reversed upon their internal surfaces. Dr. Gross performed 23 experiments with this method, but has deduced no conclusion, nor given any analysis of the results. In 9 animals the bowel was completely divided, and 4 died ; two with fecal effusion. The results of tlie experiments on partial wounds of the bowel with this suture were very favorable ; one dog only perislied. They also tended to show the rapidity with which single points of suture passed into the bowel. Cases in which this suture has been used :— ]. Jobert: Recovery. See Velpeau, Med. Operat., tome iv. pi. 143. 2. Dietfenbach : Death from other causes. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., vol. iii. p. 517. 3. Jobert: Recovery. Archives Gen. de Med., Mars, 1837. 4. Baudens: Recovery. Clinique Chirurgicale. 5. Baudens : Death. “ “ 6. Liegard : Result not stated, Velpeau. Med. Op., tome iv. p. 143. 7. Jobert: Death. Archives Gen. de Med. u a u u u 1 Archives Gen. de M^decine, 1824.