PYLOKECTOMY OR PARTIAL GASTRECTOMY". 1107 the sul)ject by the writings of Anton Wiiltler/ Micknlicz,^ Ti-ognart,^ gier, Gussenbauer, AViniwarter, V. AVehr, AI anon ry,^ Czerny, Sydney Jones,® Southam, of Alanchester, and others. Though it has now been performed thirty times or more, the operation still has about it so rnneh of tlie nature of an ex[)erirnent—perhaps even of a mere surgical exercise, if one may he allowed the expression—that it is not possible to describe it at present as a thoroughly recognized surgical proceeding. As yet, the surgical mind is not settled either as to the conditions for Yvhicli the operation should be performed, or as to the precise steps of the operation ; or indeed as to the justihabiiity not to say advisability of its performance. The Diseases for which Pjjlorectomij has been proposed.—As yet it has been performed almost exclusively for cancer of the pylorus, but with most disas- trous consequences. Twice at least, and successfidly, it has been done for simple chronic gastric ulcer; and once, also successfully, for stricture of the pylorus following perforating ulcer, (lleuck, of Heidelberg.) It has lieen pro- posed to excise the cicatrix which results from the action of corrosive acids, if the contraction should give rise to pyloric obstruction ; and it has farther been suggested that in perforation of the stomach with extravasation, lapar- otomy followed by excision of the diseased structures and cleansing of the peritoneal cavity should be performed. Czerny*’ maintains tliat “ excision of the pylorus ought not merely to be conhned to cases of cancer of the stomach, but that a great future is opened up by it for those cases of simple stricture of the pylorus in which an incurable diTatation of the stomach is found. And this is an argument already put forward by Gussenbauer and Winiwarter.” The Operation.—Before the operation is decided upon, the surgeon ought to have satisfied himself as to the nature of the disease, and the justiliability of operating under the conditions of the case in question. The symptoms should point unmistakably to pyloric obstruction. If the disease is not malignant, there should be good grounds for believing that it will, if left alone, assume a perilous character; that the lumen of the strictured }»artwill become less and less, and the gastric dilatation more extreme ; and that ulceration, and possibly perforation, will ensue. If the disease is malignant, the tumor should be felt to be freely movable; jaundice, ascites, anasarca of the lower limbs, and every other indication of secondary disease should be absent; and further, the patient’s healtli should uot have been so far deteriorated as to render success impossible. In some instances, in which the conditions have been apparently very favorable, they have not turned out to be so when the abdomoi has been laid open. The mobility of a cancerous growth of the pylorus, when examined through the parietes with the patient under chloroform, is no proof that the tumor is free from important aclhesions. In a case under the care of Professor Liclitheim,^ the growth was easily moved In different directions, yet on opening the belly it was found to be so firmly adherent that it could uot be excised, and the operation was abandoned. The chain of lynqJiatic glands behind the stomach, at tlie head of the pancreas, in the omenta and mesentery, may be extensively inq)licated without giving jialpable evidence of disease. The ra])idity, too, with which tjie glands in tlie neighborhood of tlie hepatic fissure may be involved, must make the prospect of even a suc- ceasl’nl operation very doubtful. ’ Resectinnen des carcinomatiiseu Pylnrus. Wien, 1881. ® .Tournal de Medeoine de Paris, 5 Aoiit, 1882. ® Journal de Medeoine de Hourdeaux, 1883. ^ Lft Progres Medioal, 2C Nov. 1881. ^ Lanoet, Nov. 2f>, 1882, p. 889. ® Transactions of tlie International Medical Congress, vol. ii. p, 233. 1881. ’ llrit. Med. Journal, June 3, 1882.