DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL. 303 is effected by tlie establishment of these sulxlivisions, and I may therefore be allowed to include all under the single head of diffuse inflammation. A simple dittuse inflammation of the osseous portion of the meatus exter- nus, may be set up by the presence of some irritating substance or fluid in the canal. For example, salt water may produce sucli an inflammation ; ami so may the irritating discharge from an inflamed middle ear. Among the internal or constitutional causes may be mentioned a predisposition to eczema (rheumatic ? gouty ?). An inflammation of the medullary spaces or of the air-cells of tlie sun’ounding bone, may give rise secondarily to a difluse otitis externa. Direct violence is also not a rare cause of this form of disease. The physical characteristics of a difluse inflammation of the external audi- tory canal are, at flrst, a general redness and swelling of the osseous portion. The mernbrana tympani almost invariably participates in the inflammation, though sometimes only to a very slight degree. At a later stage of the affec- tioip^an exudation of a thin, serous fluid will be found to have taken place from these red and swollen surfaces, and at a still later period the discharge will be found to contain small white flakes, or even large white sheets, repre- senting the cast-otf, uppermost layers of epithelium. Eventually, ulceration may take place. In those cases in which a vegetable parasitic growth develops in the in- flamed meatus, this phenomenon, it seems to me, should not be considered in the light of a primary and independent disease, but rather as an accidental complication. The moisture supplied by the inflammatory exudation, the absence of a current wdiich might wash away the germs, the presence of decomposing organic matters in the secretion, and probably also the dark- ness, furnish conditions wliicli are favorable to the further development and multiplication of the vegetable germs which at all times till tlie air, and which must therefore at all times be in the cavity of the external auditory canal. The appearance presented to the eye, in a typical case, is that of a meatus thinly or thickly covered with a fuzzy, white material which looks very mucli like cotton-wool. Black specks {asperglllus nigricans) are often scattered over the white ground, and sometimes this variety of the fungus predominates over the white or yellow variety. The subjective symptoms of an otitis externa diffusa are, flrst, a sense of fulness in the atfected ear, rarely amounting to actual pain; second, moro or less diminution of the power of hearing; and, third, an itching sensation in the canal. In those cases which seem to lie distinctively eczematous in char- acter, this last symptom is sometimes extremely distressing. The red, swollen, and perhaps moist condition of the parts, enaliles the oliserver to say positively that a diffuse inflammation of tlie external audi- tory canal exists, lint it is not so easy a matter to determine whether this inflammation is primary in its nature, or merely secondary to an affec- tion of the middle ear. We must test the bearing, examine the condition of tlie naso-]fliaryngeal mucous membrane, and ascertain, by auscultation during the act of inflation, the condition of the middle ear and Eustachian tube. If there is comparatively little disturbance of the hearing, if tliere is no evi- dence of an acute naso-pharyngeal catarrh, and if the air enters the tyni[)anic cavity freely and without rCdes or crackling sounds, we are fairly justified in 1‘ironouncing the disease an acute, primary, diffuse inflammation ot the exter- nal auditory canal. The jiresence of aspergillus can only be determined positively by placing some of the suspected products under the microscope, and demonstrating the liresence of the stalks, and jierhaps also of the fruit, of the parasitic plant. The different forms of diffuse inflammation of the auditory canal have very little tendency to damage the bearing, and apparently none whatever to