TRACHEOCELE. t)61 an infant eight months of age. Fancon^ has recorded an instance in a child eighteen months old, in which the tumor was seen, during a plastic operation, to have been the result of a defect in the lining membrane of the trachea—the only instance of any anatomical examination of tracheocele with which I am acquainted. Imperfect descriptions of congenital examples have been recorded by Gob? and by Fischer.® Gobi’s case was associated with bron- chocele. Under the title of aerial or vesicular goitre^ Larrey^ has mentioned some cases of what appears to have been circumscribed emphysema of the neck, occurring in the blind Muslimim who chant verses of the Koran every hour ti-orn the tops of their minarets—tlie pouches being compared to the submaxillary pouches of monkeys, lie also mentions two cases in drill-sergeants. A number of similar cases, with aerial tumors more or less evanescent, are recorded by various observers as having followed straining of the voice, violent cough, violent vomiting, and violent physical etfort wiiile holding the breath, two instances of this kind being mentioned in my work, already quoted.® Ihit these are not cases of tracheocele, since there is no evidence of the existence in them of a sac formed at the expense of the mucous membrane of the ti'achea, which seems necessary to constitute that affection. Pathogenetically, tracheocele seems due in most instances to a congenital defect in the closure of a branchial cleft. Through the fistula thus lett, the tracheal mucous membrane is forced by the expulsive power of tlie expira- tory current of air in violent coughing, or in straining with closed glottis. The sac produced in this way gradually enlarges, and is presumed to undergo thickening by inffammatory processes. Laceration of the air-tube in violent efforts with closed glottis, as during defecation and parturition, has been regarded as a cause of this affection, Imt it is not inqu’oljable that a congeni- tal defect may have existed even in those instances in which such laceration has occurred. Sgruptoms.—The subjective symptoms are dyspncea, occasionally noisy and sometimes threatening in character ; a hoarse, low, muffled voice ; and aphonia and even dys[)hagia in some instances. InDevalz’s case the pronunciation of each syllabic was acconqianied by a peculiar cooing, said to be faithfully irnitable by ])ronouncing ouvouvou in a very deep tone. The objective symptoms are connected with the presence of a compressible, gaseous tumor, sometimes resembling a cystic goitre, .just aljove the sternum or not higher than the cricoid cartilage, whether anterior, lateral, or bilateral. This tumor enlarges somewhat during the exi)iratory phase of the respira- tory act, and conversely diminishes in size during inspiration. Ik la rked enlargement can be produced on forced expiration with closed mouth and nose, but this enlargement is much less than that observed to take jiace during a paroxysm of intense dysiknma. In some instances the tumefaction is pai’oxysmal for some months before it becomes constant.® Laryngoscopi- cally, the action of the laryngeal muscles has been seen to be sluggish (Eld- ridge), and this condition may partly account for the enfeeblement of voice. In other instances (Devalz), laryngoscopy has shed no light on the case. JJiagiiosis.—The history of the sudden ap}>earance of the tumor, its gradual enlargement, its increase under the force of the expiratory current of the breath, the control of some of this enlargement by exei-cising deep pres- ' Loo. cit. 2 Ammon, Die angoLornenen cliirurgisohen Kraiiklieiteii des Meiisclieii. Berlin, 1842; cited Ly Eldriilge (loc. cit.). 3 Pitlia nnd Billrotli, llandlmch der Chirurgie., Bd. III. Lief. i. S. 3. ■’ Clinique Cliirurgicale, tome ii. p. 81. Baris, 182U. Diseases of tlie Tliroart, etc. ® Kldridge’s casiq loc. cit.