104G INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. Greenhow, Trans. Patli. Soc. Loud., vol. xvii. p. 127. Iceland, where the sheep-dog nightly occupies the same room as his master. In Iceland, hydatids are the cause of one-seventh of the human mortality. The surgical treatment consists either in evacuating the fluid contents of the cyst by a fine trocar and canula, or an aspirating needle ; or in the evacuation of the whole of the contents of the cyst hy a lai’ge and free opening. Ihincture.—The evacuation of the fluid of hydatid, as well as of simple cysts of the liver, has long lieen recommended and practised by English physicians and surgeons,^ several of Avhom have pointed out that when a fine trocar and canula are used, and care is exercised on withdrawing the canula to keep the abdominal parietes gently pressed hack against the liver, there is no necessity to wait for adhesions between the cyst-wall and the abdominal parietes before resorting to operation. Experience has shown that, in a large proportion of cases, the removal of the thin and limpid liquid of a hydatid tumor is suflicient to destro}’ both the parent and daughter cysts. Moreover, the safety and efliciency of the operation are amply proved. The experience of this treatment at the Middlesex Hospital over a period of many years, has lieen Idghly successlul, as the cases recorded by ]\Iurchison and Greeidiow show. Greenhow has put on record two cases of tumor of large capacity, from which 110 and 148 fluidounces were drawn off in this way, and in each of which a cure was obtained. I can from my own experience bear testi- mony to the efliciency of simple tapping with a small aspirating trocar and canula; in three cases a single tapping, and in another a single repetition, effected what seemed to be a perfect cure. The operation shoulcl be performed in all cases in which the tumor is visibly increasing; the inducements to CA'acuate tlie contents under these circumstances are twofold, viz., (1) to pre- vent the risks of rupture, either spontaneous or traumatic; and (2) to relieve discomfort, and to obviate the injurious eftects of pressure and weight upon neighboring organs. The mode of operating is as follows: The patient Ijeing in the recumbent position in bed, a puncture into the most prominent part of the cyst is made with a fine trocar and canula, connected or not with an exhausting syringe, or as]iirator. Tlie fluid is thus evacuated, but before withdrawing the canula the surgeon must make sure that there is nothing plugging its opening and preventing tlie escape of some remaining fluid; this is done by simply mov- ing the end of the canula within the cyst, if the aspirator is being used, or by passing a fine wire tbrougli the canula, if it is not connected with an aspi- rator or exhausting syringe. On withdrawing the canula, the })unctured parietes are pressed against the cyst so as to avoid dragging them apart, and thereby allowing the fiuid in the canula to drop into the peritoneal cavity. The puncture is covered with a piece of absorbent cotton-wool and collodion; a large soft compress of cotton-wool is .placed upon the liver, and a flannel bandage is applied over the compress and around the trunk. Stra])ping should not be used : it is less comfortable to the patient, and, by not yielding to the respiratory movement and to the constantly varying size ot the abdo- men, drags ii}>on the skin and exei’ts too much pressure. When employed merely to retain a thick, elastic layer of cotton-Avool, there is less objection to it. The patient should he kept in the recumbent posture for thirty-six hours, and all mani}mlation on the part of the medical attendant, and all unnecessary movements of the chest and abdomen on the part ot the patient, should be stilctly forbidden. An anresthetic is rarely needed, and is best avoided, lest vomiting should be excited. If the patient is very sensitive to * H.iwkhis, Mi'd.-Clur. Trails., vol. xviii.pp. 1(57—171; Brodie, ibid., p. 119 ; Bright, op. cit., ji. 42; Budd, Med. Times and Gazette, May 19, 18(i(\ p. 494; Murchison, Diseases of the Liver;