INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. 470 Syphilitic and chancroidal ulcers may occur upon the lips, the yirus of the former being usually applied in the act of kissing. These sores present in their main features the same characters, and require the same treatment, as when they are found on the genitals. Cancer of the Lip. This is a very common disease in the male subject after the age of forty- five years. It affects almost exclusively the lower lip, although, in some rare instances, it has been observed in the upper lip. It is comparatively rare in females. Iii the great majority of cases it presents the characters of epithelioma. There seems to be good reason to believe that toliacco smoking plays an important part in the production of the disease, and that it occurs more frequently in those who smoke clay pipes, than in those who use other kinds of pipes, or who smoke cigars. Dr. J. Mason Mmrren, in his Surgical Observations, gives the statistics of all the cases of cancer of the lip which had occurred at the Massachusetts General Hospital for forty years: Whole number of cases . . . . . . . . . . 77 Males ............. 73 Females ............ 4 No. of those that smoked pipes ........ 44 No. that did not smoke pipes ......... 7 Not ascertained ........... 2G Of the four women, three were known to have smoked pipes. Epithe- lioma of the lip, in its earliest stage, may present itself as a simple des- quamation of the cuticle at the margin of the lip, with a slight induration of the subjacent tissue, or there ma}^ he a crack or fissure, or a wart-like growth from the surface, or a small, hard tubercle like a shot imbedded in the part. In either case, there is apt to be some induration, but it is often very slight. The disease, in its early stage, is often quite indolent, scarcely giving rise to any symptoms, and frequently remaining many months without making any considerable progress. After a time, varying greatly in difterent cases, it assumes a more active character, extending along the vermilion border and through the substance of the lip, and giving rise to lancinating pains. At a later period, ulceration takes place, with an offensive sanious discharge, and the disease extends along the lymphatics to the glands beneath the base of the jaw, and involves all the adjacent tissues, including the periosteum and the bone. The general health becomes seriousl}^ disturbed, and the continued irritation and exhaustion, occasioned by the disease, ultimately destro}’ the patient’s life. Treatm.ent.—The only safety of the patient lies in the early and complete extirpation of the parts involved in the disease. This may be accomplished by the fliorough application of powerful escharotics; but their action is pain- ful, slow, and uncertain in its results. Excision with cutting instruments is more prompt, more safe, and more certain, and is attended with much less pain and discomfort to the patient. It is also followed by a much smaller deviation from the normal aj)pearance of the face, and is, therefore, on all accounts to be preferred. When the disease involves less than half of tlie vermilion border of the lip, it may readily lie included in the limits of a V-incision, and the margins of the wound may be brought together with pin sutures in such a manner as scarcely to mar the appearance of the patient. When a larger portion of the lip is involved in the disease, it may be excised