DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 323 or punctured wound of the mucous membrane covering the inner bony wall of tlie tympanum, a result that has no signihcance in the pathological condi- tions now under consideration. It is by no means an inditferent matter what sort of a cutting instrument is used in making an opening in the memhrana tympani. In a general way, it may be said that a spear-pointed, two-edged blade is the best adapted to this pni-pose. In the construction of such a knife—or myrin- yotorne^ as it is often called—regard must be had to the relations of the drum-membrane to the inner wall of the tympanum. Thus, for example, it is safe to assume that we shall never he called upon to incise a mem- brane whose posterior half occupies a position less than two millimetres distant from the inner wall of the tympanum. We may also take it for granted that we shall never find it necessary to incise a membrane so dis- tended that it occupies a position more than live millimetres distant from the inner wall of the tympanum. It is therefore unnecessary to have the cutting edges of the spear-pointed knife of greater length than live millimetres. The myringotomes which I use have cutting edges only three and a half milli- metres in length, and I find them amply long. In the next }>lace, it is desiraljle that the spear-headed Idade should lie quite broad at its base; the breadth in this case being measured from cutting edge to cutting edge. In children and sensitive peo[ile, a single stab is often all that we can obtain, unless we resort to the use of an ana'sthetic. Under such circumstances the broader the blade of our knife, the greater will be the length of our incision in the drum-memljrane. In my instruments the greatest breadth is barely three millimetres. Possibly a breadth of tliree and a half millimetres would be found better adapted to all the purposes for which a myringotome is used; but we must not forget that we are often called upon to operate in a canal of very small calibre, and that even a slight increase in the size of the knife may be sufficient to greatly increase the difficulty of the task of operating success- fully. It is largely a matter of individual preference whether a straight or a slightly bent myringotome shall be employed. After using both kinds, I have gradually fallen into the habit of using only the straight instrument. It seems to me that I can control such a straiglit myringotome more perfectly than I can a bent one. Those which I use are made from a single }iiece of steel, sixteen centimetres long; the slender shank, together with the blade, measures seven centimetres, while the eight-sided, roughened handle measures inne centimetres. After an opening has been made in the drum-membi’ane, the hot applica- tions described above should be continued until tlie pain has l>een relieved and until a free discharge has been estaldished. Then heat is no longer re- quired. The chief care from this time forward must be to secure the most perfect cleansing }iossible of the external auditory canal and outer surface of the drum-membrane, as long, at least, as the discharge continues. At first thought, one would be disposed to consider this }iart of his thera|)eutie task as very easy to acconqilish. The fact is, this most important part of the treatment of purulent affections of the middle ear is rarely carried out properly. Two or three serious difficulties usually stand in the ivay. Of the numerous ear-syringes sold in the shops, both licre and aliroad, many are utterly worthless for the purjiose; and of the remainder, scarcely one is fit for anybody but an exjiert to use. The syringing of the ear, however, must as a rule bo carried out by a nurse or liy some member of the family, or pos- sibly oven by the patient. The fear of injuring the ear by introducing the nozzle of the syringe too far into the auditory canal, is almost universal, and as a result the pus and masses of casfioff e[iiilernds lying next to the mem- brana tymjiani remain undisturbed by tbe current of water ejected from the