INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 896 Stomach to reject everything. The •wound discharged immensely, and sloughs slowly separated ; and he had profuse sweats. His breathing became fast and difficult, as if the injury to the abdominal walls would not allow the descent of the diaphragm. He died from exhaustion on the tenth day. Post-mortem examination showed very little evidence of peritonitis; but the whole surface of the wound was somewhat sloughy, though inclining to take on a healthy action. Pneumonia at the back part of both lungs. Treatment.—The general indications for treatment are such as have been ^ O described in speaking of the other forms of wound. In tlie lacerated wounds special care must be taken to cleanse the tissues, and to remove foreign matter with as little disturbance to the parts as possible. Pain must be relieved by opium and sedative applications to the wound. Whilst the bowels must he opened, if the patient is suttering from the etfeets of constipation, it is most disadvantageous to be stimulating them with aperients and injections, espe- cially when the wound is deep and the peritoneum exposed. Here, as in all Ibrms of abdominal injury, cpiietude should he obtained and the intestines ke}it at rest, as far as possible. Contused wounds are caused by instruments which bruise as well as divide the tissues; any form of wound may be contused. Thus an incised w’ound may be attended by contusion, as in the case of those made by’ the teeth of a saw ; punctured tvounds are contused if inflicted with blunt weapons, as by such as increase suddenly in diameter from point to handle, whereby the tissues are forced asunder as by a wedge ; lacerated wounds are always more or less contused. Perhaps the usual forms of contused tvound of the abdo- men are those caused by spent halls, by fragments of shell, or by some heavy body passing over it. Tlie area of contusion generally spreads wider and deeper than tlie area of laceration. Some of the most severe contusions are, moreover, entirely subcutaneous ; the muscles, vessels, nerves, and fasciie may he torn without any breach of the skin. As in lacerated ■svounds, so in the contused, primary hemorrhage is slight; there is, however, danger of secondary hemorrhage; sloughing and idcera- tion are more likely to occur than in any other kind of W'ound, and indeed in many cases must occur before repair can commence. Contused wounds of the abdominal parietes, if deep, are therefore necessarily dangerous; and, in punctured Avounds it is the contusion of their edges, together with the difii- culty there is in draining aAvay their dischai-ges, Avhich gives to many of them their especial risks. Treoiment.—As contused wounds cannot heal by first intention, there is no object in suturing their edges Avith precision. Sutures in these, as in lace- rated Avounds, nmst he used simply Avith a vicAv of preventing unnecessary gaping. After cleansing the Avound and stopping bleeding, the next step is to retain the tissues in place, cover them with some antiseptic dressing, and keep up their vitality by using a thick layer of absorbent cotton-wool as a medium for Avarmth. As soon as sloughing has commenced, special care must be taken to prevent putrefaction. Hrainage should be thorough, and to this end it Avill often be Avell to make counter-openings for the insertion of drainage- tubes. Secondary hemorrhage must be treated bj^- tying the bleeding vessels, or by the application of styptic avooI, styptic colloid, or Euspini styptic applied on eotton-Avool or lint; there is in these astringents an additional advantage, as they assist in purifying and keeping the Avound SAveet. To liasten the removal of sloughs, carrot or charcoal poultices, or carbolic and lead lotions combined, applied as hot fomentations, arc the best remedies. Whilst }>a3'ing every attention to cleanliness, it must be remembered that the Avound should he kept as quiet as i)Ossible; for this imrpose an easy