535 TUMORS OF THE JAWS. Tumors of the Jaws. The progress of pathologica,! investigation has, of late yeai’s, considerably rnoditied the views held by surgeons as to the nature of many of the tumors found in both the upper and lower jaws. Modern methods of investigation have thrown doubt upon those formerly employed, and hence but little confidence can be placed in many of the earlier-recorded microscopic appearances of maxil- lary tumors. Fairly reported clinical liistories must always be of value, but in the light of modern pathology it is impossible in many cases to reconcile the clinical history with the pathological interpretation. In the following pages, an attem]^:it will be made to classify tumors of the jaws in accordance with modern histology; and for assistance in this endeavoi- I am indebted to Mr. Ilushton Parker, of Liverpool, and to Mr. Eve, Curator of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Among non-rnolignant turtiors^ or tumors composed of one of the modifications of fully-developed connective tissue (Erichsen), we may recognize fibroma, enchondroma, and osteoma. Fibroma.—This is found in the upper and lower jaws in the form of the hard fibrous and the softer fibro-cellular tumor. According to Broca, both the fibrous and fibro-cellular tumor may be of dental origin, forming one variety of odontoma, which is found in young persons only, and whicli has the peculiarity of being encysted and therefore easily removed. I have oidy met with one case which seemed to support this view, in the person of a young- lady who had a tumor of the upper jaw, evidently due to expansion of the antrum, the walls of which crackled under pressure. Believing the swelling to be due to fluid, I punctured it, giving exit to a small quantity of liquid, and discovered a tumor within. On laying open the antrum, I was able to enu- cleate with the finger a tumor whicli had very slight attaclnnents, presenting all the appearances of a fibrous tumor, but microscopically found to be very rich in cell elements and therefore likely to recur. FTevertheless, the patient is now in perfect health ten years aftcu- the operation. Fibroma of the jaws closely resembles filiroma in other parts of the body, and especially the uterus. It is dense in structure and frequently lobulated, and on section shows interlacing bundles of fibres. Two varieties of origin are found ; the periosteal, springing generally from the alveolus, and indistin- guishable except liy its size from epulis; and the endosteal, which springs from the interior of the bone, and in the upper jaw generally makes its way into the antrum aud nasal cavities, or, in the lower jaw, expands the inner and outer plates of compact bone. Fibroma produces absorption by pressure, and may thus destroy a great part of the skull ; it stretches the skin of the face, and may by tension produce ulceration, and thus cause an aperture, but it never involves the skin, which is always loose and movable over tlie tumor. The enormous size to which filiromatamay grow without destroying the patient’s life, is well seen in some of Liston’s and Fergusson’s cases, lint such tumors are rarely met with nowadays. The disease never gives rise to secondary deposits, and if freely removed, so that all prolongations with the Haversian canals of the neighboring bone are got rid of, does not recur. Fibroma of the jaw may undergo calcareous trausformatiou, as in tlie uterus, and occasionally the calcareous matter may become necrosed and cause su})- l)uration. Sup})uration is also found occasionally in connection Avith simple fibroma, but only when it has been punctured for diagnostic purposes, or other- wise irritated.