SPLEXOTOMY AND SPLENECTOMY. 1105 Czerny’s successful operations were performed for floating spleen. The (piestion of excision of the spleen for cancer is not likely to arise. It is doubt- ful if this organ is ever the seat of primary carcinoma, and it is impossible that it should be, if the theory of the epithelial origin of cancer is correct. Quite recently, however, a German has recorded three cases of “primary epithelioma of the si)leen,” but it is the opinion of others that these cases in no way difler from some forms of lymphadenosis.' For leucocythtemia, Avhether in the early or late stages, splenectomy should not be performed: flrst, because the enlargement of the spleen is only a part of a general disease; and, secondly, because there is such a great tendency to hernorrliage that even slight operations upon leucocythannic subjects should, as tar as possible, be avoided.^ Crede, of l)]-esden, not only condemns the operation for leukiemia, Imt thinks the only diseased condition in which it is justiflable, is cystic decjeueration of the spleen, lie reports a case in which he performed it successfully for this cause in a young man aged twenty-four. In this case, Crede observed tluit the white iflocd-cells were increased at the expense of the red, eight days after the operations; that this increase con- tinued for one month, and then was stationary for two months, and that in the fourth month the propoidion fell to normal. During convalescence, C'rede was unable to detect any enlai'gement of the l3'mphatic glands, or any disturb- ance in the marrow of the bones; but he noticed an inflammatory swelling of the thyroid gland during the fourth month. Crede believes, therefore, that the extirpation of the spleen produces a marked, temporary ainemia, as after severe hemorrhage, and that for a Avhile tlie thju’oid assumes the func- tions of the spleen, until the system becomes adjusted to its new relations.^ That movable spleen is a dangerous condition, and one for which splenec- tomy is, in severe cases, well suited, may be inferred from Iiokitansk}’’s^ account of it. He gives three cases in which the spleen w'as found dislocated after death:— Case I.—The S|)leen was in the riglit iliac region, the pedicle was twisted, and the hilus was turned upwards and outwards; the patient was a woman, aged twenty-eight, upon whom Caisarean section had been performed. The pedicle consisted of the pan- creas, and the splenic vessels, the former making tliree spiral coils round the splenic artery. The nancreas was about ten inches long, being drawn out and considerably attenuated. Case II The spleen was in the left iliac region, being attached by a long pedicle to the omentum. It occurred in a microcephalic woman, aged forty-six, who died of tubercular ulceration of the liver and lungs. Case III.—The patient was an insane woman, aged sixty-nine.; the siileen lay to the left of the upper aperture of the pelvis, attached by false membrane to the sigmoid tlexure and coils of small intestine. The splenic artery was elongated and twisted, and its branches were blocked here and tliere. The vein was blocked. The spleen was the size of a goose’s egg, and its capsule was thickened. Dislocation of tbe spleen generally occurs in the female, an<l generally in the direction of tbe left iliac fossa, and it genertill3" residts from tumefactiou of tbe spleen and want of tone in the ligaments. The pedicle Itecomes twisted during ' Lancet, A]>ril 14, 1883. 2 For a concise summai'y of opinions on the subject, see Mr. Collier’s paper (loc. cit., Febru- ary 11, 1882, j). 222). 3 American .Journ. Med. Sciences, October, 1882, p. tlOG ; Deutsche humI. Wocbenscbr., 10 -Juni, 1882. * Zeitschrift der k. k. (jesellscb. der Aerzte zu Wien, No. 3. 1860 ; Brit, and Foreign Med.- Chir. Review. VOL. V. — 70