INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 16 negro, who had seized the victim by the lapel of his coat while he butted him. The skull would liave been thin for that of a white man, and was singularly so for that of a colored one. Tissures of the surrounding, compara- tively uninjured bones, not uncommonly coexist with comminuted fractures. Indentation or fissuring of the outer table only, is occasionallj^ met with, but, as a rule, even these slight injuries are accompanied by much more extensive splintering and depression of the inner table of the skull, as shown in Figs. 816, 817, from a specimen in the Mutter Museum. This result, which is observed in all fractures of the skull from direct force, is mainly due to the fact, pointed out by Teevan, that the bone yields first on the side of extension.‘ Thus let e f, in Fig. 818, represent a segment Diagrams illustrating mechanism of fracture of the inner table of the skull. (After Teevan.) of the calvaria, and the space G, included between the parallel lines, repre- sent the portion of bone struck. The portion of bone G yields to the blow, to a much greater extent than the portions of bone E and F, which in con- sequence may be considered as practically unmoved. The result is that the osseous tissue of the iqqier, convex portion of g is much compressed, while the lower, concave surface tends to be straightened out, or extended, with a consequent rupture of the bony fibres, and, the force continuing to act through the medium of the compressed outer table and diploe, the fragments of the inner table are depressed, the points c and i) being widely separated. (Fig. 819.) Unquestionably, as stated, the bone thus yields first and most markedly upon the side of extension ; and the want of support afforded by the soft cere- bral mass, with the resiliency of the whole skull, causing its over-recoil, explains the relatively extensive depression of the inner table produced by comparatively slight blows. A glance at Fig. 820 will explain this, as well as the mechanism of fractures of the internal table alone. The double lines represent the secondary positions assumed by tlie skull just after the force has ceased to act, the dotted lines the primary effects of the blow, and the single black lines the condition in which the parts finally remain. Hence it will be seen, that the fracture commencing upon the side of extension, the fragments of the inner table remain almost undisturbed in the position in which they were left by the blow, while the outer table regains its normal level, owing to tlie mutual compres- sion of its component parts, and to the fact that Fig. 820. A a T> B b Diagram illustrating mechanism fractures of skull. of 1 British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, vol. xxvi. Teevan’s paper deals with frac- tures of the internal table alone, hut the mechanism is the same for complete fractures, and, with the modifications here suggested, his explanations will serve to elucidate certain points which otherwise would be obscure, and which have very commonly been erroneously interpreted.