1080 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. to distinguish scrofulous disease of the kidney from pyelitis or pyelo-nephritis from any other cause. Treatment.—The treatment consists in alleviating pain and improving the general health. Anodyne applications to the loin and lumbar region, and anodynes guardedly administered internally, together with cod-liver oil, bark, cream, or “maltine,” and good, bland, nutritious diet, must be employed. If the kidney has been converted into an abscess-cavity, or suppuration has been set up in the perinephric cellular tissue, nephrotomy should be performed, and the cavity well irrigated and drained. Aephrectomy in tuberculous disease, in which the affection of the kidney is but a local manifestation of a consti- tutional disorder, would be useless even if the other kidney were sound. "When, however, the scrofulous disease is limited to one kidney, nephrectomy promises much as a means of prolonging life by freeing the individual from a fatal malady. Syphilitic Kidney.—Syphilis is now admitted to be an unquestionable cause of renal disease, though our knowledge of the precise effects of syphilis on the kidney is not yet perfectly accurate. There are three forms in which the kidney becomes involved : (1) Chronic or subacute interstitial nephritis, followed by atrophy of the kidney ; (2) the formation of gummata, which are found onlj" in a late stage of sj’philis ; (3) amyloid degeneration. Either the simple interstitial, or the gummatous form of inffammation may lead to cicatricial scars or puckerings on the surface, or in the cortical substance of the kidney, and to the consequent destruction of the tubules within the affected areas. Probably the atrophy which often follows interstitial inflammation is produced by arterial obstruction, resulting from the thickening of the walls of the arterioles of the cortical substance with inflammatory exudation; in this way the lumen of the vessels may be quite occluded. In support of this view may be mentioned the fact that there are sometimes seen patches of white or reddish-white color and granular appearance, resembling infarcts, surrounded by zones of congested tissues. Though gummata in the kidney are admittedly rare, they are recorded by Lancereaux, Klebs, Moxon, Green- fleld, and others. Morell Mackenzie also has recorded a case of gummata in the liver and right kidney, in which the renal capsules were adherent.^ Symptoms.—The symptoms are much the same as those of Bright’s disease, but with the addition of a syphilitic history and the evidence of a syphilitic cachexia. Albuminuria of temporary or persistent duration, and in slight or well-marked degree; fatty or granular casts of the renal tubes; headache; loss of appetite and color; nausea; oedema of the conjunctiva, eyelids, and ankles; and a gradually increasing sallowness of the complexion, ave the common symptoms. Death may occur suddenly from uriemic poisoning; and Dr. Coupland has pointed ouP that a feature common to all cases of late hereditary syphilis, and indeed to most cases of advanced syphilis, is the occurrence of death from parenchymatous nephritis. He records two cases of hereditary syphilis in which this change in the kidney was well marked, and was quite independent of lardaceous disease. Dr. Coupland has also recorded a very rare case of infantile syphilis,^ in which a female child died at the age of three months from the impairment of the heart’s action, due to infiltration of its muscular tissue with s^'philitic new growth ; there were also gummata of large size in the liver, and the kidneys—which to the naked eye presented a nonnal appearance—showed, under the microscope, in their cortical parts, an interstitial infiltration of small, round cells, most abundant around the 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxii. p. 33. * Ibid., vol. xxxi. p. 380. 3 Ibid., vol. xxvii. p. 303.