389 DISEASES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. the size of the naval cavities as the result of the last stage of a diffuse, at first hyperplastic, but subsecpiently atrophic, rhinitis (see page 386); and the results of two post-mortem examinations of his own agree Avith those of Gottstein and Krause. He does not, however, coincide with the latter^ as to the similarity of the structural changes in ozfenawith those of xerosis of the conjunctiva and callous stricture of the urethra, in both of which the odor of the secretion, if any, can he easily tested, and in neither of which has fetor been found as a symptom. His results lead him to believe that atrophy of the mucous membrane is necessary for the production of the fetor, and that the disappearance of Bowman’s glands is an important factor. He adds that it is doubtful whether the atrophy always follows hypertrophy, or whether, as in the granular kidney, the process is not one in which there is at first no appreciable thickening of mucous membrane. The majority of authors thus agreeing as to the pathology of the atfection, two interesting points—(1) as to the immediate cause of the distinctive, fetid smell which has been alluded to, and the vieAvs of some authorities in regard to which have been given, and (2) Avhether or no the disease has a consti- tutional origin—claim attention. Upon these points opinions vary. Coz- zolino^ believes that simple oziena may exist in certain individuals who have naturally fetid secretions, as of the feet and axilhe ; Hebdemus, that the fetor is the result of a gaseous exhalation from a mucous membrane deprived of secretion; Krause finds a sutficient cause for it in the fatty degeneration of the newly formed cell-proliferations, even Avhile they are in intimate con- nection with tlieir original soil and before their ap[)earance on the surface, and in the rapid change of the fat into fatty acids, and consequent decompo- sition, as proved by the appearance of margarin crystals in the crusts, these fatty acids being the invariable products of the decomposition of albuminous matters; Fournie holds that it is caused by the constitutional state of the individual—a state which excites a moiiiidly odorous secretion in the glands of the Schneiderian membrane; while Fraenkel’s theory is, that the cause is to be found in suppuration of tlie mucous membrane, and E. Fraenkel’s, that the presence of micrococci and bacteria is the chief factor in its development. Is atrophic catarrh or ozpena always a constitutional disease ? Fraenkel does not believe that its existence proves any special dyscrasia, Imt foremost in the list of constitutional picdispositions to Avhich it may lie referred, he would place scrofulosis and perhaps syphilis. Cozzolino holds tliat it is a result of chronic rliiuitis, and never occurs but in scrofulous subjects; this Krause doubts, saying that there is no ground for assuming that the consti- tutional idiosyncrasy, or the constitutional predisposition in the individual, upon which the disease depends, has any connection witli scrofula. The theory of a constitutional predisposition is also held by Fournid. Tlie appearances of the disease, as they are seen in the nasal passages, are similar, though exaggerated in degree, to those described as being incident to atrophic catarrh. Treatment.—The treatment of the atfection will not vary, in the main, from that recommended for atrophic catarrh. The essential point is to insure thorough cleansing of the parts and their subsequent disinfection (see pp. 387, ^388). The agents em})loyed to neutralize the fetor ai-e numerous, including anti- septics from permanganate of potassium down to iodoform. Fournie recom- mends boi'acic acid or salicylate of sodium. The cotton-wool tamjionis generally well spoken of. Zaufal nses it to remedy the enlargement of the nasal cavi- ties; Gottstein employs it to stimulate secretion. Fournie believes that when the cotton-wool is introduced into the nostril, it acts in a Listerian manner. * Loc. cit. 2 Rev. Mens, de Laryngol., 1 Nov. 1881.