INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. ‘J02 depeiul on the anatomical contents of the region wounded. The small intes- tines and the omentum have the greatest tendency to protrude, but any portion of the intestinal canal, from the stomach to the sigmoid flexure, may be forced through the wound. The duodenum, unless dragged with the stomach, is rarely, if ever, protruded; and the caecum and sigmoid flexure are less likely to escape than the transverse colon. The bladder has occasionally protruded througli a wound in the hypogastrium. It is recorded that the solid viscera have been partially or entirely protruded, hut such cases are )nore rare. Incised and lacerated wounds are more frecpiently followed by these protrusions than punctured or gunshot wounds. Treatment.—When the wound has been recently inflicted, and the protruded organ is uninjured, it should be returned to the abdominal cavity without delay. This should he done in a deflnite and methodical manner, returning those parts flrst which have protruded last, and beginning at the upper end and following in the regular course of the intestine; the stomach should go before the small, and the small before the large bowel, and omentum after intestine. If the protruded parts are dirty and covered with sand or hair, etc., they should be washed clean by a gentle stream of warm milk and water, or of warm water squeezed from a clean sponge, or allowed to flow from an irrigator, until every particle of foreign substance is removed ; and then they should he returned. In returning them, care must be taken not to force them between the ditterent planes of the abdominal wall, or into the sheath of the rectus, or between the peritoneum and the jielvic cellular tissue instead of into the peritoneal cavity. It should be borne in mind that the peritoneum in old people, and in certain regions, is very easily detached, and that it has happened that large portions of pi-otruded viscera have been forced into false sacs so formed, instead of into the abdomen. To avoid this, it is best to follow the returning mass with the Anger, and thus ascertain that a clean, smooth sweep can be made upon the inner surface of the parietal peritoneum. There may be obstacles to the return of the protruded structures In the flrst place, the narrowness of the aperture may resist the efforts of the surgeon. To obviate this, the abdominal parietes should be relaxed by position as much as possible, and retractors should be inserted so as to separate the margins of the opening and pi’event them from being pushed back by the taxis. If these measures are insuflieient, the opening should be enlarged with a probe-pointed herniotome or bistoury, dividing first the aponeurotic or muscular tissues, and sparing the peritoneum if possible. In making this incision, care must be used not to wound the intestine, nor to divide any large artery, nor to cut across the direction of the muscular fibres,, which would leave the jiarietes permanently weakened. If a probe-pointed knife cannot be passed between the edge of the wound and the protruding- organ, the wound should be eidarged by carefully cutting through the tissues from the surface, with a sharp-pointed scalpel. If it he omentum protruding, reduction may be diflicult or impossible on account of its congested and <edematous state, or because it is adherent to- the edges of the wound hy lymph poured out into its meshes ; or reduction may be undesirable on account of its inflamed or even gangrenous condition. If it be quite healthy, and the patient he seen within a short time of the accident, and if the reduction fails sim}ily on account of the size of the pro- trusion as conqiared with the size of the wound, this should be enlarged in one of the ways just specified. But if it be deeply congested, partially stran- gulated, inflamed, or adherent to the wound, it is unwise to return it into the peritoneal cavity. The proper })lan is to apply one or more ligatures to it, on a level Avith the edges of the Avound, to cut the ligatures short, and to cut aAvay the part of the omentum bey ond the ligatures, leaving the stump