1144 HERNIA. together and lient over a long bolster, with a prop for the feet to keep the body tirni. The bowels should he opened on the morning of the operation, and then left until some discomfort is ex]ierienced. Opium should be given for the first twelve hours—one grain every four hours—until pain ceases or sleep comes on. The diet should be of milk and lieef-tea, with ice to relieve any nausea left by the amesthetic. Xo stimulants are advisable. The pain usually passes off iu twelve hours. The discharge is trilling and of a serous character. The bandage rarely requires to be touched till three days have ela})sed, when it may lie removed entirely, with the ]>ad of lint. A lump of well-teased antise})tic tow placed under the wire will be sufficient dressing. The scrotum should be well sujiported. In a few cases tlie urine may require removal by a catheter, for the first day or two, on account of the patient’s dis- inclination to contract the abdominal muscles. The wire should be kept in for from eight to twelve days, according to the amount of reaction set up, the lower ends of the wire acting as an efhcient drainage-conductor. At the end of this time the wire may be untwisted, and it will then be found that the two i)arallel, straight ixirtions of the wire, which originally })assed through different tracks, have by slow ulceration joined each other iu the same track, and that they will come out together by cutting off their lower ends witii pliers, and [lulling iqion the iqiper loo[>. If b}' reason of slight kinks there is an}’ dilhculty in this, the wii-e may be straightened by pulling at each end with [>liers, and the ends may then lie withdrawn together or singly. The upper opening usually closes soon aftei’ their with- drawal, and a truss may then be applied, with cotton-wool beneath it, and the [latient may be allowed to get uji and lie on a couch until the lower sinus heals. Sometimes a little swelling of tlie testicle, or effusion into the tunica vagi- nalis, shows that the spermatic cord is closely endiraced by the wire, but this rarely calls for any special treatment, being entirely removed by the wire’s withdrawal. In only one case, in which a steel clanqi was used to hold the ends of the wire instead of twisting them, has atro[)hy of the testicle fol- lowed the o}ieration. I have met with no burrowing of matter since substi- tuting the wire for the hem[ien ligature and com[iress. Tlie straightened wires act as elHcient and cleanly drainage-conductors, aided by the raised [lositioii of the slioulders and trunk. Very little discharge is usually })resent throughout, and itonly becomes puru- lent in the last few days. A large quantity of fibrinous effusion mats togther the walls of the canal witli the inclosed, invaginated sac. The induration, however, soon disappeai-s, and the cure depends not upon its plug-like formation, but iqion the adhesion of the hintler wall of conjoined tendon (at u. Fig. 1141) with the front wall and I’ou[)art’s ligament, adherent to and embracing the cord. 4’he effect of this o[»eration, when successfully acconq)lished, is to unite in one cicatrix the sides of the inguinal canal as far iqi as the deep ring, to- gether with the pillars of the siqterficial ring, the union of which siq)[)orts the invaginated, twisted, and obli- terated sac, with its intimate coverings of external and internal s[)ermatic and cremasteric fascia\ All these are blended together in the fibrinous effusion consequent u}»on the gradual severance liy the pressure of the wires. Idie conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles is fii-mly connected with the dee[i part of Pou- [)art’s ligament, and iqam this union depend, for the chief part, the success and [)ermanence of the radical cure. Thus the valvular arrangement of the front and hinder walls of the canal is restored and Fig. 1141. Diagram of cured inguinal lieruia.