1093 OPERATIONS ON THE KIDNEYS. wound left to granulate, though the anterior extremity may be brought together by one or more sutures with advantage. The dangers of nephrotomy are not in the operation, but depend entirely upon the condition of kidney for which the opening is made. When done for cyst, hydatid or simple, the probability is that with a free drain for its contents, the cavity Avill soon contract, and the Avound close by granulation ; Avhen done for hydronephrosis or pyonephrosis, set up by some permanent obstruction in the ureter, a continuous and persistent flow of urine, or pus mixed Avith urine, must ensue, and unless the fistula thus formed be removed by nephrectomy, a receptacle, into Avhich the fluid can tidckle and be retained, should be adjusted to the loin and constantly Avorn. Such an instrument has been made at my suggestion by Mr. Hawksley. When nephrotomy is performed for abscess, recoAmry may take place; but if the kidney is completely converted into an abscess-sac, or is tlie seat of breaking doAvn scrofulous deposit, the patient, though benefited for a time, may be AVorn out at length by suppuration or hectic. Xephrolitiiotomy.—This operation should unhesitatingly be done in all cases in AAdiich symptoms of renal calculus continue uninfluenced by medi- cinal treatment, and are sufficiently severe to interfere materially Avith the comfort and usefulness of the patient’s life. If for several months a person has been subject to more or less constant pain in one loin, and along the ureter, and, perhaps also, in the testicle of the same side ; if there have been recurring attacks of renal colic, and especially if Avifh these symptoms there has lieen occasional hiematuria, or the urine has been constantly charged Avith a little pus or albumen, we have the conditions not only justifying, but de- manding an exploration. If, in addition to these symptoms, a small calculus, or a little calculous matter has been passed 'per 'urethram^ there is almost abso- lute certainty of the presence of a stone. Symptoms strongly suggestive of renal calculus arise, hoAvever, from causes other than stone, and many times an exploration has lieen made of the kidney, and nothing found to explain the symptoms. But it by no means folloAvs that no stone is in the kidney, because none is discovered u})on examination; for subsecpient events have in several instances divulged the existence of calculus in a kidney, in Avhich a stone lias lieen searched for in vain. Moreover, the exploratory incision sometimes greatly relieves the symptoms; this has been ex2)lained by Mi’. Annandale, as proliably due to division of some of the nerves in the lumbar parietes. From the temporal’}^ relief Avhich folloAved one of my early operations, Avhere the kidney Avas Amry loosely placed in its surrounding tissue, I Avas led to think tliat the contraction Avhich folloAved cicatrization might have caused the improvement liy fixing the kidney in its place, and I Avas cpiite })rcpared to act on this idea in a future case by plugging the Avound, and thus making it heal by granulation. Another plan of treat- ing moliile kidneys has, hoAvever, since then been practised by Ilahn, of Berlin, and will presently be descrified under the heading of nephrorrapliy. An unlooked-for advantage, in one instance, folloAveit tlie exploratory incision in the folloAving manner: nothing Avas found at the operation except considerable condensation of the peri-renal tissue; the Avound healed rapidly, and the patient Avas much relieved, but some time afterwards the cicatrix spontaneously opened, and a quantity of pus escaped; the opening then closed for a time, and the cicatrix has since then several times alternately discharged pus and closed up, but the patient has been quite relieved from all incouA’enience excej)t the occasional purulent discharge. Here it Avould seem that the o[)eration-wound prepared a Avay for the escape of matter from