INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 21 pital is broken, and most rarely of all the temporal. Depression is uncom- mon, the fracture consisting of one or more fissures, from half an inch to one and a half inches in length. Rarely there is marked depression, and cases have been reported where a spiculum of bone could be readily detected through the integument. Tliis must, however, be an exceptional occurrence, as it is probable that a ce})halhfematoma invariably accompanies such injuries. When not still-born, infants thus injured may recover, when any depression Avhich exists Avill probabh^ disappear in the course of time. Diagnosis of Fractures of the Cranial Vault.—There are no certain signs by which we can determine the existence of a hssuied vault, when no wound leads down to the bone ; and in many cases a post-mortem examination first reveals an unsuspected fissure of the skull. Elfusions of blood into the super- jacent tissues have induced experienced surgeons to cut down upon supposed "fractures, and no fracture has been declared to exist when the skull has really been broken. AVhen lying beneath the temporal muscle, an extensively comminuted fracture may escape the closest examination. Gross relates a case where he was nearly led into error by a congenital malformation of the skull. I have myself been struck, in examining certain heads or skulls, to notice how readily a careless observer might mistake a depressed fontanelle, or one closed by a Wormian bone, for a depressed fracture. Bearing in mind these possibilities, a few inquiries as to the patient’s previous history, and a proper examination of the anatomical relation of the parts, will secure against mistake. Absorption of the di])loe, and consequent thinning of the skull, may likewise leatl to errors of diagnosis. Compound fractures of the vault are usually readily detected, Imt this is not always so, as in Di’. L*. II. AVatson’s case, already referred to, where a few hairs, caught in the minute fissure, alone led to its recognition. I cannot agree with Sir Prescott llewett, when he says that sutures and vascular grooves may be mistaken for fissured fractures even after careful examination, for there is one infallible test, viz., that the line of coagulated Idood Ij’ing in an uninjured suture, or groove, can always be wiped away, ivhile no amount of rubbing with the sponge will remove the line of blood etfused between a fractured bone or separated suture. I have on more than one occasion satis- fied myself of the truth of this very ancient observation.* Sometimes a line of coagulated blood beneath the edge of the adherent ])eriosteum may appear like a fissure, but as this membrane can be pushed away, the absence of fissure at the site of the blood-line can be readily determined. Gross suggests that the cup-like dei>ression of the outer table should be filled with water, when it cannot be determined whether or not the inner table is fractured as well as the outer. If only the latter lie fissured, the water will remain, while if the inner table be also broken, the water will filter away between the fragments. I have never tried this expedient; and although the disappearance of the water would undoubtedly })rove an injury of the inner table, its remaining might not disprove comminution of the vitreous layer of the skull. A foreign body—as a piece of lione—having been driven tlirough the tem- poral fascia beneath which it remains, may give rise to the erroneous diagno- sis of a comminuted, depressed fracture, the margins of the firm fascia feeling like an opening through the bone. The error was in one case only correetecl by observing that the supposed skull-fragment presented upon removal a ' Hippocrates recommends tlie a]i])lication of a solution of the “jet lilack” ointment to detect fissuring of tlie skull. Celsus translates this “ atramentum .scriptorum," and the note to the Sydenham translation of llijipocratos’s Works explains that this ink was made of the soot of pines and gum. It is this ancient suggestion, evidently, tliat has led to the signilicance of the line of coagulated blood in fissure of the bone being discerned.