FRACTURES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 659 Unless forestalled by precautionary tracheotomy and insertion of a tube, sutfocative phenomena may intervene at any time from oedema, displacement of fragments, or occlusion of the calibre of the air-tube with blood-clots. Ueeovery occupies a number of weeks. In complicated cases, three months or more may be consumed in the process. Suppuration ensues during repair; and this may entail cicatricial stenosis. The injured cartilages may undergo necrosis in part, and the dead portions may be expectorated, or may be discharged externally. Suppurative inflammation of the connective tissue sometimes follows the emphysema. Death has taken place in this way by mediastinal emphysema and secondary pericarditis by pleurisy from contiguity to the burrowing abscess; and by pneumonia (Wagner’s case) and broncho-pneumonia.^ Permanent hoarseness, or even aphonia may remain after recovery. Treatment.—Recovery is so I’are unless tracheotomy has been performed at some stage of the treatment, and the danger of sudden sutfocative apnma is so great under almost any other method of management, that prudence seems to suggest the pro}>riety of a prophylactic traclieotomy in eveiy instance, as a precautionary measure, for reasons mentioned in discussing the treatment of incised and gunshot wounds of the larynx (p. 641). Of tlie entire sixteen cases of recovery out of the sixty-nine tabulated by Durham, in nine the patients were saved by timely opening of the air-passage, and a tenth was restored by long-continued artificial respiration after tracheotomy, although he succumbed to broncho-pneumonia a fortnight later.^ To this list of recoveries after tracheotomy, may be added the exceptional case of Treu- lich, already referred to. Better far that an unnecessary tracheotomy should be occasionally performed without detriment to the patient, than that a number of cases should be allowed to terminate fatally for want of it.^ The safety of the ]:)atient from suffocation being apparent, or having been secured by tlie operation recommended, the displaced fragments should be care- fully adjusted, the crico-thyroid membrane being incised, if necessary, to facili- tate their reposition liy means of catheters, probes, or the little finger passed through the artificial opening—a procedure which practically adds nothing to the peril of the patient. No attempts should be made to retain the frag- ments in position l)y sutures, for reasons previously mentiolied (p. 642). Any wound in the soft parts may be closed by sutures and adhesive stri]^)s; an o})eu- ing being left for drainage, and kept patulous b}^ a strip of lint or a drainage- tube. The treatment of emphysema and other complications, and the after- treatment altogether, should be conducted on the same principles as that of wounds of the larynx generally. If the fragments of the thyroid cartilage fail to unite, or if stenosis cannot be prevented, extirpation of the partially detached portion, and even removal of half of the larynx has been suggested f and in a case reported by Billroth, this partial operation was performed, and a good voice retained. Fractures of tub Trachea.—Fractures of the cartilages of the trachea occur under similar conditions to those under which fractures of the larynx are met with. In some instances the injury is confined to the trachea ; in most it is associated with fracture of the larynx, of tlie hyoid bone, or of both. Gurlt® records nine cases of fracture of the trachea, in four of which ' Steiner, Wien. med. Wooh., Hd. xviii. S. l.'i. 18G7, 2 f'onper, Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 18, 1880, p. liO.'j. ^ Op. cit., .3d edit., vol. i. p. T-IO. ^ See especially Fredet, op. cit., p. 5. ^ Wagner, loc. cit. ® Op. cit., S. 31 (i.