INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 290 distinctly when the watch is pressed against the temple, or against the mastoid process. In the case of a young child, we are obliged to depend very largely iqion tlie statements of the parents with regard to the condition of the hearing. A tuning-fork so constructed as to maintain its vibrations for a compara- tively long time, and not pitched higher than the middle range of the musical scale, will he found veiy useful for the purpose of communicating sonorous vibrations to the auditory nerves through the skull.^ It is not always an easy matter, however, to determine correctly the significance of the results of this test. In a certain class of cases, the test produces results which are positive, and which can only he interpreted in one way. I refer to those cases in which tlie sound of the tuning-fork is heard better by the patient in the affected than in the unaftected ear. It is evident, in such cases, that the deafness complained of is not due to any lack of power in the auditory nerve, and that we are simply dealing with i)henomena of reflection and reinforce- ment of sound, such as may he produced by a swollen drum membrane, or by cerumen impacted in the external auditory canal, or by a finger })laced lightly over the outer orifice. In anotlie)- class of cases, however, the problem is not so readil}^ solved. In these cases, the patients have recently become markedly or completely deaf in one ear, and, when we subject them to the tuning-fork test, we find that tliey hear the sound of the fork only in the unaffected ear. In such cases it has been customary to maintain that the auditory nerve must be the seat of the lesion which has caused the deafness. This is not the place in which to discuss this cpiestion in detail, and I will therefore simply state my own belief with regard to it in very brief terms. Changes in the drum-cavity, and particularly in those parts of it which are known as the oval and round windows, are, it appears to me, competent to prevent the perception of sounds by the adjacent auditory nerve. In order that the auditory nerve may transmit sound-sensations to the brain, it is necessary that a vibratory motion should take place in the cochlear structures among which the auditory nerve-filaments terminate. Ho provision exists in these structures for lateral vibration, but onl}^ for one following a direction at right angles to the plane of the lamina spiralis. Such a mode of vibration, how- ever, can only take place when at the same time both the foot-plate of the stirrup and the secondary tympanic membrane are mobile ; or, in other words, when the increase in hreadth of the column of fluid occupying fhe scala vestibuli can be compensated for by a corresponding diminution in breadth of that occupying the scala tympani; for these changes in the diameters of the two columns of fluid represent the mechanical result of an excursion inward (toward the vestibule) of the foot-plate of the stirrup, while upon the return excursion of this ossicle (outward toward the tympanum), the relations of the diameters of the two columns of fluid are reversed. This brings us then to the following conclusion with regard to the loss of power to per- ceive sound under the circumstances mentioned above, viz., that this loss of power may be produced by any one of the following conditions, beside that of actual paralysis of the nerve itself;— 1. Immobility of the foot-plate of the stirrup. 2. Immobility of the secondary tympanic membrane. ' The heavy, prismatic tuning-forks are the best, as they maintain their vibrations for quite a lono- time. They are kept for sale by all the surgical instrument-makers, and may be used either with or witliout clamps. The common practice is to strike one branch of the fork flatwise against some hard object, covered with cloth or leather, and then, while tlie instrument is still vibrating, to rest the lower end of the handle against the forehead, the top of the head, or the teeth of the patient.