1046 HYDATIDS. ' See Case I., p. 17, in Dr. Bright’s work on Abdominal Tumors. A boy, in good health, and not known to have any hepatic symptom whatever, tell, striking his belly upon a tender. He died almost directly from sliock. At the post- mortem examination there was found a simple hydatid cyst in the right lobe of the liver, the size of an orange; the cyst had been in part detached from its bed in the liver, and there was a laceration one inch long in tlie surrounding liver-tissue. Blood had been etfused into the cavity of the cyst; the liver capsule was intact. Blood effused between the adventitious cyst and tlie hydatid cyst is occa- sionally a cause of death. Again, death may he caused in various ways besides by the rupture of the cyst: (a) By the effects of pressure on the stomach, ureter,' great bloodvessels, etc. (h) The tumor may attain such a size that it nearly fills the abdomen and interferes with ]-espiration and the iieart’s action, as well as with the functions of the abdominal viscera, and so death is caused by exhaustion and marasmus, (c) The cyst may suppurate and the case terminate fatally from pyaemia, [d) Secondaiy liydatid tumors are apt to form, either in the liver or some other organ of the abdomen or chest, or in the brain, and then lead to death by the pressure or inflammation which they excite. Abortive Terminations of Hydatid Tamors.—It has lieen stated that some of these tumors undergo so-called “spontaneous cure;” this means that the hydatid fluid is absorbed, that the vesicles hurst or shrivel up, and that the contents generally are converted into a putty-like material, whilst the cyst- wall calcifies or thickens into a tough, leatheiy, or cartilaginous membrane. The contents of these withered cysts are not always of the same appearance : sometimes they are of creamy whiteness, and like cream-cheese; sometimes of a transparent yellow, or lemon color, having the appearance and consis- tence of calfs-foot jelly. Under the microscope, abundance of fat-globules and plates of cholesterine are to he seen, and generally shreds of the laminated hydatid-memhrahe, or booklets of the echinococci, are to he found amongst the altered cyst-contents, though this is not always the case. I have notes of a case in which the cyst compressed the vena cava, vena porhe, and common bile-duct, was the size of an orange, and was situated at the portal fissure. This cyst contained a clear hydatid fluid, hut its walls were in places cartilaginous, and in others hard and coated internally with calcare- ous plates. The patient had died of phthisis. The causes of these various changes are either the calcification of the parent-cyst, or the overgrowth of one of the daughter-cysts leading to sti’angulation from within; or the entrance of bile into the cyst. It is possible that some intercurrent disease may interfere with tlie well-being of these parasites, and so lead to their abortive ending. I have notes of three cases of death from phthisis, in which shrivelled tumors of size varying from that of an egg to that of a cricket-hall, were found on post-mortem examination. Treatment.—This resolves itself into the prophylactic and the surgical. Medicines are cpiite powerless to effect any influence upon a h^ulatid tumor. The ova of the Tfenia echinococcus develop not only in man, from whose body they do not as a rule pass, hut also in sheep, ti’om whose bodies the echinococci ai’c again set free in the slaughterdiouse, to he devoured liy dogs and again developed into tapeworm. Prophylaxis., therefore, as Murchison has pointed out, is based on a knowledge of these facts, and consists in preventing dogs from feeding on offal, or frerpienting slaughter-houses, and in tlioroughly boiling all “ dog’s meatfurther, the tapeworms generated in dogs should he destroyed by periodically ]ihysicking the dogs, and burying or burning their excreta. These measures are of national importance in countries, such as