516 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. length of a cleft, extending through both hard and soft palates, at an early age, is undoubted; but it may be cpiestioned whether in many of these cases a better result, as regards articulation, would not have been obtained by the use of some form of appai’atus. It is most satisfactory to the parents of a child sutfering from any congenital malformation, that tlie deformity should be repaired by operation as soon as possible, but grave disappointment is apt to follow when, as years go on, the power of articulation fails to improve in the ratio anticipated. The sufferer is inclined to complain that the operation has not improved his voice as much as his power of eating comfortably, and is sometimes annoyed to find that no mechanical contrivance can be subse- quently worn, without undoing what was effected with so much trouble and suffering some years before. In deciding, therefore, as to the propriety of an operation for cleft palate, it is necessary to take into account not merely the mechanical difficulty of bringing the soft tissues on each side of the median line into sufficiently close proximity to unite, but also the length of the palate, and the probability that it will sufficiently shut off the mouth from the nose to prevent the nasal intonation which is commonly met with, both before and after these opera- tions. In no case of successful operation for cleft palate, I believe, is the palate sufficiently in contact with the back of the pharynx to allow water to be injected from one nostril into the other without entering the pharynx when the mouth is open, as is the case in well-formed throats. And yet many of these patients have very little nasal intonation, which is to be ex- plained, I believe, by the hypertrophied condition of the muscles forming the pillars of the fauces, which may be seen when the patient attempts to swallow with the mouth open, acting powerfully to narrow the fauces, and thus make up for the deficient length of the palate. Before deciding therefore as to the advisability of an operation upon the soft palate, it is well to grasp the chin of the patient and hold the mouth open so as to aid his efforts at swallowing, when if the two halves of the soft palate come in contact in nearly their whole length, while the superior con- strictor and palato-phaiyngeal muscles closely approximate the palate and pharynx, the case is one in which union may almost certainly be obtained, and probably a fair result as regards phonation. In the case of the hard palate, there is an undoubted disposition for the two sides of the cleft to approach one another for some years after birth ; and this is particularly seen in cases complicated with harelip, in which the successful closing of the lip tends powerfully to approximate the divided edges of the alveolus and palate. But success in closing the fissure in a hard palate depends in no small degree upon the mode in which the palate is arched. As was pointed out by Sir W. Fergusson, in cases of highly arched palates, which in section would resemble a Gothic arch, it is comparatively easy to dissect down the muco-periosteum. sufficiently to make the ffaps appi’oximate; while in palates but slightly arched, and the section of which could resemble a Aor- man arch, it is difficult to get the flaps together, and the tension must neces- sarily be severe. It is quite true that these eases of slightly arched palate give the best results as regards the voice, when the operation is successful, and that the high palates, when most successfully closed, are apt to lead to disappointment; but this might well be anticipated, since it is by no means uncommon for a person with'a healthy, high palate, to speak with a nasal intonation closely resembling that of one suffering from a congenital cleft, or from i)crforation by disease. The effort involuntarily made by all patients, the subjects of cleft palate, to shut off the nose from the mouth in speaking, is aided as they grow up by a