66 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. coma, witli hemiplegia, dilatation of one pupil, stertorous respiration, etc.; or when he recovers consciousness after stunning, to again relapse into coma, with hemiplegia, etc., we can contidently pronounce the cause of the trouble to he compression. Those who see many sevei’e head-injuries, and the results of post--niortem examination, will concur with me, I am sure, in expressing the opinion that it is eminently misleading to the younger practitioner to authoritatively tabulate the diagnostic symptoms of compression and concus- sion. It is a relic of ancient magistral surgeiy which it is time should be dispensed with. Prognosis.—This depends upon the cause. If slight, the patient regains consciousness and recovers. In other instances the cause may be a removable one, when, if the concomitant cerebral injuries are not in themselves mortal, recovery often ensues. The later forms of compression of the brain by lymph and pus, are peculiarly grave, and unless remediable by the surgeon’s giving them free vent—and too often then—they sooner or later destroy the patient. Treatment.—This has been so fully dwelt upon under various other heads, that I need only refer the reader to the sections on intracranial hemorrhage, intracranial abscess, foreign bodies in the brain, fractures of the skull, etc. I would however call attention to the possibility of resuscitating a patient even apparently dead from respiratoiy failure, after the cause of compression has been removed, by means of artificial respiration, the hypodermic use of atropia, and electrical stimulation of the diaphragm. This sudden respira- tory failure is more common than is ordinarily sujiposed.' IV. Laceration and Protrusion of Brain-substance ; Hernia Cerebri.— Bruised and lacerated fragments of brain-tissue may be driven through a fracture situated in any part of the skull, but such injuries are usually the result of compound fractures of the vault, the force producing which at the same time ruptures the meninges. Very rarely the brain-substance is ex- truded through a basal fracture of the skull, in direct communication with the ear, nose, or pharynx. Brain protrusion would occur more commonly Avith fractures of the base, were it not that they usually consist of mere fissures of the bone, ivithout any laceration of the dura mater. When such an accident does occur, it must necessarily be, with rare exceptions, fatal, from the violence of the force producing it, and from the consequent intra- cranial damage. Ilewett reports a case seen at St. George’s Hospital, London, where a pro- fuse hemorrhagic flow from the left ear, containing fragments of brain- substance, resulted from a fall upon the vertex, from a great height.^ Two other similar cases are refen-ed to by him, the original histories^ of Avhich I liaA’e carefully perused, and ivhich I find closely resembled that above men- tioned. I am acquainted with only three recorded eases Aidiere brain- matter has been forced through the nostrils, and in one of these recovery folloAved.^ I append brief notes of two cases of recovery after pi’otrusion of brain-substance. A man, aged forty years, fell from a scaffold, a height of twenty feet, striking with his head some iron bars ; he was stunned, but upon admission to the hospital, half an hour later, he had recovered consciousness. There was a small wound over the right eyebrow, sticking in which was seen a fragment of brain-substance. There was slight ' See Cerebral Abscess, p. 80, infra. ^ Op. cit., vol. i. p. 610. 3 Journ. de MM. et de Chirurg., tome iii. p. 454. 1779; and Annales de Cbir., tome viii. p. 229. 1843. ^ Compend. de Chirurg., tome ii. p. 595 ; Bull, de la Soc. Auat. de Paris, p. 228. 1837; Am. Jour. Med. Sciences, April, 1859, p. 354.