426 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. slight irritation, and is not infrequently ulcerated at several points. Calca- reous deposits^ sometimes occur within it, and cartilaginous and osseous degenerations^ of the growth are not unknown. Allowed to pursue its course, unrelieved by operation, it often attains an enormous size, and displaces, distorts, and destroys all parts in its immediate neighborhood, giving rise to the most hideous deformity, and to imminent danger from compression of the brain or other cerebral complication. A tumor possessing the same general characteristics, and of the same nature, springs usually from the basilar process of the occipital hone and the adja- cent part of the body of the sphenoid, and is more common than the first- mentioned form. It is distinguished by its origin, rapid growth, and serious results, and is known as the naso-jiharyngeal polypus. Naso-gharyngeal polypus,^ aside from a point of origin as above, may arise from the pterygo-maxillary fossa; as it enlarges it may extend thence outwards into the zygomatic and temporal fossae, and inwards through the spheno-palatine foramen into the pharynx; but Sands^ coi-rectly remarks that tumors thus arising form a special gi’oup, and should he distinguished both anatomically and clinically from that which has been mentioned above, which embraces the fibrous groivths most often met with in this neighbor- hood, and to which the name of naso-pharyngeal polypus has been correctly applied. The latter, according to some writers, always springs from the site first given above, but cases exist where it has been found to have had its point of attachment to the following parts: the antrum, the upper part of the pterygoid fossa, the internal pterygoid plate, the greater wing of the sphenoid, the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and lastly, the edges of the posterior nares; occasionally it springs apparently from the upper part of the spinal column. (Michaux, Eobert, and others.) "What- ever its site, the tumor extends, in its gradual growth, dowmwards, or for- wards, until it blocks up the entire upper and middle pharynx, involves both the mouth and nasal passages, and, after having displaced or caused the absorption, perforation, or destruction, of all parts opposed to its irresistible onward march, appears at the anterior nares with great distortion of the external nose, or in the middle pharynx Avith protrusion forAA^ards of the soft palate. Masse records instances in Avhich naso-pharyngeal polypi pene- trated the pterygo-maxillary fissure, and passed through the pterygoidean space, between the muscles, toAvards the face. Extensions are not infre- quently found into the antrum, and the frontal and sphenoidal sinuses, and prolongations reach through the spheno-maxillary fissure into the oi’bit, and displace the eyeball.® Eobert asserts that these groAvths spring from the foramen lacerum anterius. The polypi are usually pedunculated, and not infrequently form firm attachments to the various points upon Avhich they press, thus rendering their exact point of origin doubtful. Their groAvth is rapid, and extirpation is apt to be folloAved by recurrence. Spontaneous cure by sloughing rarely occurs. (Johnson, Birkett, Bonnet, Vincent, and others.) A marked tendency to undergo sarcomatous degeneration is ex- hibited,® and a special tendency to penetrate the cavity of the orbit, or that of the cranium, although, according to some authorities, the latter occur- ' Bourdilliat, Fibrome calcifle. Gaz. Med., 1868; and H. Cloquet, op. cit., p. 688. ® Virchow, Die krankhat'ten Geschwiilste, Bd. i. S. 185. 3 Consult Giraldfes ; Masse, Des polypes naso-pharyngiens. Paris, 1864; D’Ornellas, Anat. path, et traitement des polypes fihreux de la base du crane, etc. Paris, 1854 ; Brevet, Des polypes naso-pharyngiens. Paris, 1855. On Naso-pharyngeal Polypi. Archives of Scientific and Pract. Med., No. 6, June, 1873. (Reprint.) ® Spence, Edinburgh Med. Jour., vol. ix. p. 996. ® Weber, Billroth und Pitha’s Haudbuch, Bd. iii. Abth. i. S. 207.