CHRONIC HYDROCEPHALUS. 163 addition, the patient will prohably complain of a pulsation in the aftected district, and on auscultation the anenrisrnal bruit may be heard. When the tumor perforates the skull, the diagnosis becomes much more evident. A tumor appears over the site of some main division of the middle menin- geal artery, it pulsates distinctly, and, if large enough, may give to the lingers a sense of lateral expansion. It feels soft and fluctuating, and has possibly a slight thrill noticeable to the touch. On pressure being applied, the- tumor will be found to be reducible, and, after such reduction, the hole in the bone may possibly be detected. This reduction moreover is not apt to be associated with cerebral symptoms. Pressure on the common carotid of the affected side causes diminution, or temporary disappearance, of the tumor, whereas pressure upon the opposite carotid increases the size of the mass. On auscultation, a distinct aneurismal bruit is to be heard over and around the site of the tumor. The diagnosis would also he aided Ijy the history of the case, and by a knowledge of the symptoms experienced by the patient. In one case,^ where a tumor had formed from perforation of the skull, the mass was mistaken for a cyst, and an operation was performed for its removal. Severe hemorrhage occurred from the incision. It could not be checked, and soon led to a fatal result. The only operative treatment ajipli- cable to these aneurisms is ligature of the common carotid of the affected side. Kremnitz^ records a case in which this operation was performed for a menin- geal aneurism that had perforated the skull, and had formed a large external tumor. It resulted in a complete cure, the hole in the skull being protected by the application of a silver plate. Chronic Hydrocephalus. This term is applied to a disease characterized by certain accumulations of ffuid within the cranial cavity. This ffiiid may be within the ventricles (internal hydrocephalus), or in the araclmoid sac (external hydrocephalus). Internal hydrocephalus is the usual form of tlie disease. The accumula- tion of ffuid in the arachnoid sac is rare, and, according to some authorities, is mei'ely an acciilental complication of the commoner form. Others maintain the independent existence of external hydrocephalus. The disease (considered generally) is as a rule congenital, or appears within the first six months after birth. It may however occur at any time before the sutures unite, or even after that event. Internal Hydrocephalus.—The fluid, as just oliserved, usually occupies the ventricular cavities, and as a rule all those cavities (viz., tlie lateral, the third, and the fourth ventricles). The dilatation is not always uniform, and not unfreipiently involves one lateral ventricle or one part of such ventricle more considerably than the rest of the general cavity. The affected ventricles become immensely distended, and assume a rounded outline. The ganglia appear flattened out, and the various commissures stretched, or even removed. Owing to the ventricular enlargement, the convolutions of the lirain become as it were unfolded, and more or less obliterated, aiTd the cerebral mass be- tween the ventricles and the surface l>ecomes greatly thinned by the increas- ing distension. In certain severe cases, this brain matter may be reduced to a layer no thicker than one-half or one-(piarter of an inch, an<l instances are recorded in which a mere film of brain tissue has in places bounded the mass ' Kriraei', Jonni. des Progres des Sciences Med., tome x. p. 237. 2 Kremnitz, Deutsche Zeitsclir. fur Cliiriirgie, Bd. iv. S. 473. 1874..