513 DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. fers to take nourisliment from a cnp, ■which lie often does earlier than might be expected. Should the feeding by tlie mouth be insutlicient, recoiu’se should be had to nutrient enemata. AVith regard to cleanliness and prevention of fetor, it is very desirable that at the time of the operation all divided tissues should be thoroughly mopped with a forty-grain solution of chloride of zinc, or be freely powdered with Iodoform, either of which applications not only obviates fetor, but tends powerfully to prevent the absorption of septic matter. The frequent wash- ing out of the mouth with a lotion of permanganate of potassium or lime (the latter by preference), is most readily accomplished with a siphon douche fitted with a soft-rubber nipple, which the patient can direct himself without risk of hurting the mouth. After each washing, the mouth should be brushed out with the glycerine of carbolic acid or “ terebene,” either of which answers admirably in preventing fetor. It has been suggested that the lobular pneumonia which occasionally proves fatal in some cases of removal of the tongue, is due to septic induence conse- quent upon the state of the mouth. The eases which end fatally occur how- ever among elderly patients, who have become greatly reduced by the disease, and who would be likely under any circumstances to suffer fi’oni lung compli- cations of a low type. With the view of obviating this sujiposed septic influ- ence, my colleague Mr. Arthur Barker* has in a few cases allowed the patient to wear a tracheotomy tube for some days, and to breathe only through it, the mouth and nostrils being carefully covered with cotton-wool, and a drain for saliva being established through the floor of the mouth. In cases of recurrence after removal of the tongue for epithelioma, the dis- ease shows itself in the stump or in the submaxillary lymphatic gland, or more frequently I think in both, though I have known both to escape, and the disease to re-appear in the lymphatic gland beneath the sterno-mastoid, first on one side and then on the other. The infiltration of the glands always spreads to those beneath the sterno-mastoid, should the patient survive sufflciently long, but death usually surpervenes after a few months from general asthenia and exhaustion, the sufferer being worn out by pain and, should the sulnnaxil- lary lym[)hatic glands suppurate and open externally, as they frequently do, by the constant discharge. In cases where recovery is permanent, ami the patient remains well for years, one is almost tem|»ted to suspect a mistaken diagnosis; and it must be acknowledged that mistakes have been made by good surgeons in removing tongues, the suhjcct of gumma, for examples of epitlielioma. I am able, however, to record the survival for over twelve years of a patient from whom I removed what was believed to be a tongue affected by medullary cancer. The patient was sixty years of age, and "the disease had existed six months. On looking into the mouth, there was between the tongue and the lower jaw on the left side, a ragged, ulcerated surface, occiqiy- ing the floor of the mouth. This was* prolonged to the side of the tongue, and Avith the Anger a large mass could be felt in the substance of the organ, extending beyoml the median line, and to about tAvo inches from the tip. The patient com[»lained of constant })ain in the tongue, but Avas othenAuse in good health. There was a slight enlargement of one of the submaxillary lymphatic glands. After section of tlic loAver jaAV in the median line, I removed, Avith the ecraseur^ the anterior half of the tongue, in September, 1868. 3’lie patient made a good but sIoav recoveiy, and called on me in 1880, nearly twelve years after tlie operation, perfectly avcII. The part removed Avas exhibited to the Pathological Society of London, and Avas submitted to the Committee on Morbid GroAVths. To the naked eye the tumor presented the VOL. V.—33 * Lancet, August, 1879.