DESCRIPTION OF INSTRUMENTS, ETC. 367 Fig. 920. tion, of a chronic inflammation of the delicate nasal mucous membrane, with its usual result of permanent inflltration of the mucous and submucous layers, rather than a means of its relief. With Robinson, I believe that the employment of these insti-uments should be restricted, if used at all, to excep- tional cases of very aggravated catarrhal inflammation, with accumulation of pent-up and hardened secretions; and that even here the posterior nasal syringe answers a better purpose. In ordinary catarrhal disease the douche is never required. In my practice, the use of the nasal douche has been entirely superseded l>y that of an instrument made of hard rubber, fashioned in an effective and conve- nient form, and so arranged as to throw a powerful coarse s]>ray. This apparatus, I, and others with me, have found, upon ex- tended trial, to be efficient, agreeable to the jiatient, less painful than the douche, and devoid of all possible danger. AYith it, the entire nasal }>assages and upper ]iharynx may, except in exceptional instances, be thoroughly cleansed of crusts and secretions by the use of less than one ounce of the medicated fluid in spray. (The latter prin- ciple is an essential one, in the nature of the apparatus.) This instrument should be used, proper indications existing, according to the following rules, which are to be given to the patient, to insure its eflicient em[)loyment on his part;— 1. AVarm tlie medicated fluid in the bottle before using, by liolding the iilled bottle i'or a few moments in bot water. 2. Hold the body erect and incline the head very slightly forward over the toilet basin. 3. Introduce the conical nozzle of the apparatus into the nostril (iirst on the side most occluded), far enough to close it perfectly, holding at the same time the hori- zontal tube of the ajtparatus directly outwards from the face ; do not turn it from side to side, or downwards; make a trial of the spray by compressing the hand ball once, to ])i-ove that the opening in the nozzle is not occludeil in the nostril, and then— 4. Open the moutli widely and breathe gently, but quickly through it in a snoring manner; avoid carefully all attempts at S[)eaking, swallowing, or coughing; at the mo- ment that the fluid passes into the iqiper ]>art of tlie throat I'rom the nostril being ope- rated upon, a desire to swallow will be ex])erienced—resist it—and the next second the fluid will pass forwards through the op[)osite nostril. •). Hohl tlie end ball of the aiiparatus lirnily in the right hand (the left holds the bottle) and operate it briskly, until the sjiray of medicated fluid, which should be felt at once to enter the nasal passage, has passed around it and appears at the ojiposite nos- tril ; stop at this moment. G. Remove tlie nozzle from the nostril, allow the surplus fluid to run out of the latter, and blow the nose gently. Never viyoroushj. 1. Repeat the o[ieration upon the opposite nostril. Various cleansing solutions may be used in the apiparatus; one of tlie best is as follows; Acidi carbolici, (this quantity is often necessarily varied to suit the susceptibility of ditferent mucous membranes); sodii Inliorat., sodii bicarl), aa 5j ; aqiue rosa?, glyceilnte, aa f .Ij ; aquic ad Oj. Or still better, sodii bicarbonat., sodii biliorat., ria 5ss; “Listerine,” fsj ; aquae ad f.siv. A¥here a much larger (piantity of a cleansing solution is necessarily used, as with the anterior or posterior nasal syringe, sinqde warm water, with the addition of borax, ten grains to each ounce—or “Listerine,” in the proportion of one part