72 INJURIES OF TUB HEAD. Treatment of Wounds of the Brain and Meninges.—This should embody the prophylactic and curative measures appropriate for encephalitis, to the section upon which subject the reader is referred. Foreign Bodies in the Brain.—Foreign bodies may become encysted, either actually imbedded in the cerebral tissue, or merely lying in con- tact with the exterior of the brain. Tlieir usual tendency is sooner or later to induce fatal intlammation, even after years of immunity from all trouble. Foreign bodies like bullets, may remain lodged in the brain for j^ears, when a drinking bout, or some extraordinary mental excitement, may bring about sudden death. (Quesna}^ Heunen, Wharton.) “In a case observed by Dr. John E. Gibson, of Nashville, the ball remained in a quiescent state in the anterior lobe of the brain for six years, when it excited fatal intlammation. In an admirable paper by Dr. II. R. Wharton, of Philadelphia,^ published in 1879, that surgeon gives an analj-sis of 316 cases where a foreign body was lodged in the brain. Of this number, one hundred and sixty ended in recovery, while one hundred and tiftj’-six proved fatal. The inhuence upon recovery of the removal or retention of the foreign body was most marked. The foreign bodj' was removed in one hundred and six cases, seventy-two patients recovering, while only thirty-four died. In the remaining two luuidrcd and ten cases, no attempt at removal was made, and recovery took place in only eightj’-eight cases, while one hundred and twenty-two patients died. A further analysis shows that among those classed as recoveries, death ultimately took place in ten cases at periods varying from three to fifteen 3’ears, and that many of the patients sutfered from such after-effects as ver- tigo, incapacity for ])hysical exertion, loss of sight or hearing, ejjilepsy, and deterioration of the mental powers. Still further, of those cases in which the patients recovered without mani- festing any of these sequelie, numbering in all one hundred and eleven, the foreign body was removed in fifty-six cases, and allowed to remain in forty-five. The evil results of allowing a foreign body to remain in the brain are usually manifested sooner or later—even as long as thirteen years after the injury. Inflammation, slow or rapid, sometimes involving large iiortions of the brain tissue, or yellow softening, is apt to be set up around the foreign substance, either spontaneousl}’, so to say, or from the most trivial exciting causes.^ The usual termination is cerebral abscess, this condition having been found in fifty-three of Wharton’s cases, in which a post-mortem examination was obtained. Apoplexy is an occasional cause of death, as is pressure of the foreign body on the venous trunks, inducing ventricular effusion and con- sequent compression of the cranial nerves. Convulsions, coma, etc., have also been thought to have originated from venous pressure. The probable explanation of tiiose cases in which no symptoms have been present for long periods, but in which death has rapidly followed upon the sudden develop- ment of brain-symptoms, is that quoted by Wharton from Flourens. The latter observer introduced bullets into diffei’ent portions of the upper parts of the hemispheres, and upon the cerebellar lobes of dogs and rabbits. By their own Aveight the balls gradually penetrated the brain-substance, ulti- mately reaching the basis cranii, the bullet tracks healing after them. In man, something analogous probably takes place, thus accounting for the late supervention of rapidly fatal symptoms. As to the fatality of wounds of the different portions of the brain, fifty- ' Gross, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 73. ^ Phila. Med. Times, 1879. ^ Drinking, mental excitement, or slight injury caused seven deaths among the fatal cases in Dr. Wharton’s table.