INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 898 wounds of the parietes. Guthrie relates a case in which a rnusket-ball made a wound about four inches in length above the crest of the left ilium, and cut away the abdominal muscles so deeply as to expose the peritoneum. Ulcera- tion of the serous layer was feared at the time of the separation of the sloughs, but, instead, granulations sprang up from the sides and bottom of the wound, which gradually healed without trouble. Guthrie adds that he had seen the same tiling occur many times; so that he had no doubt of the great power possessed by the peritoneum in resisting ulcerative action going on in its immediate neighborhood. Treatment.—The depression and general collapse which follow gunshot wounds of the parietes, will often require the cautious but liberal use of stimu- lants, and warmth to the extremities and spine. The next step is to remove the missile, or any extraneous substance which may have been carried in before it. The clotlies should always be examined ; it sometimes happens that a fold of a shirt or tlamiel is carried into the wound in front of the ball, without being torn, and that the ball is removed in the process of taking off the clothes. A nearly spent hall may enter the parietes a short distance, and then fall out by its own weight. Sometimes, though nothing is felt for a time, the hall by a lucky change of position presents itself at the wound, and can then be re- moved ; or, failing this, it may gradually work itself out if its escape is favored by posture. If it appear that the hall has lodged in the tissues, search should be made by digital examination, not only of tlie trunk hut of the limbs also, especially along the direction in which it is probable, from the account given, that the missile has traversed. Thus, a ball may take an upward or down- ward course in the sheath of the rectus muscle ; or may skirt along Poupartk ligament and the iliac crest, outside the peritoneum, and thus reach the liver; or, following the course of a rib, may be found at the opposite end of the bone ; or may pass downwards to the buttock or thigh, or upwards to the shoulder or axilla, or may sink into the pelvis and be subsequently cut out in the peri- neum. Digital examination and probing should be conducted with extreme care, owing to the risk of forcing an opening, in this way, into the peritoneal cavity. If there be no indication of its whereabouts, the hall must be left to become encysted, though, instead of becoming encysted, it may shift, and subsequently be detected. Ilennen relates a case in which a i>iece of shell, nine and a half ounces in weight, and of an irregular and quadrilateral form, was detected three weeks after tlie injury, and felt by the patient to change its place to a certain degree accoi’ding to the position of his body ; yet pre- viously there had been no indication of its presence. It was removed from the right lumbar region, through an incision four inches long and half an inch deep, and the patient recovered. Should a ball be found beneath the skin, it should he removed with as little disturbance as possible, through an incision made down ujion it. Im- mediately after the removal of the hall it will be well to send a gentle current of some antiseptic fluid (Condy’s fluid or carbolic-acid lotion) along the track. In this way I have washed out small pieces of clothing, which would have given rise to irritation and discharge, if not to abscess, had they been left. After inflammatory swelling has once begun, it is not likely that such foreign substances will escape until after the establishment of free suppuration. During tlm period of inflammation, leeches and warm fomen- tations, with salines, refrigerants, and opium, are requisite. Sloughs must he removed; and collections of unabsorbed blood or of pus should be freely laid open, to prevent the extension of inflammation to the peritoneum. Absolute quietude of the trunk and of the abdominal viscera are important points in the treatment. If the kidney be wounded, provision must be made for the