PROTHETIC DENTISTRY. 567 food will accumulate upon the plate, and in the crevices, and within a few hours will ferment and make the set foul, and nothing but a liberal scrubbing with a brush, and often with some alkaline wash, will sweeten it. With small plates, clasped to adjoining teeth, constant care is needed to keep the inside of the clasps absolutely clean, and also the natural teeth which the clasps surround, or the teeth will rapidly decay. The plates which are least liable to do injury to the gums, are those of gold and platinum, and those which are most inju- rious are of vulcanite. There are three objections to vulcanite plates, viz.: the character of the material, the poor workmanship usually employed in making them, and the lack of care which is taken of them. The first olyection is inherent and unavoidable; the second shows itself in all cheap work, the surface which comes in contact with the gum being left rough and unlinished; and this makes it more ditlicult to cleanse tlie plates properly. On retiring at night, all artificial teeth with plates should be removed from the mouth and thoroughly brushed with soap and water, and afterwards scrubbed with pulverized chalk. They may then be ptlaced in a glass of water, to which a little common soda has been added, and left until needed in the morning. Teeth should also be removed and brushed after each meal, if the wearer desires to meet his associates without a foul breath. If the gums are inclined to be spongy, the ball of the thumb should he wet with tincture of myrrh, and all the spongy surface rubbed daily until it becomes harder. By this process the suction-power which keeps an upper plate in place will be increased. Artificial teeth will not last a lifetime. The average period during which they are worn without renewal is but a few years. This results from several causes; the perishable nature of the materials used; ordinary wear and tear ; liability to accidents; but more than all, the constant shrinkage of the gum, which goes on to some extent as long as life lasts, and on account of which the plate loses its adaptation and usefulness. Methods of makinu Artificial Teeth.—An impression of the space desired to be filled is taken in some }»lastic material. Plaster of Paris, gutta- percha, beeswax, and some composition of beeswax and various gums, are the materials commonly used. The last three are prepared by heating until they become sufficiently plastic to receive an imprint without disturbing the soft tissues. Plaster of I’aris is the most reliable substance for the })urpose. The best metliod of preparation is to take the desired quantity of water, and to drop gently into it all the plaster that the water will take up. Beat it well together by stirring, thus freeing it from all air-huljbles, and it is ready for use. If it is desirable to have it set very quickly, add a teaspoonful of salt to each pint of the water used. Good plaster mixed in this way will set in about sixty seconds. An impression made of plaster of Paris shows the most minute details of structui’e. Wash the impression with a lather of soap, rinse it off, and pour other plaster into it; an accurate model of the parts is thus obtained. A¥hen metallic plates are required, such a model is duplicated by moulding in sand, and easting zinc, tlius making a die; the counter-die is made of lead, and between these the plates are swaged with a heavy hammer. A plate thus made should fit the mouth oi- parts required accurately. The teeth are attached by the platinum pins which were baked into them at the time that they were made, and are connected with the base by linings and solder. A set of artificial teeth mounted skilfully on gold, will show all the artistic finish of a piece of fine jewelry, besides being so nicely adjusted to its place that it can be worn with entire comfort. The highest order of mechanical and artistic talent is capable of develop- ment and display in making prothetic apparatus of this kind. The use of