INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 32 1 think, then, that a little reflection will convince every reader, that the apparently useless and dangerous projections seen in the dried skull, do not exist in the normal state, but, being specially arranged, serve as the discharge- points for the vibrations wliich, by mechanical laws, must pass along the best conductors, that is, the densest portions of the bones, while these same conductors are also ampliflers of the vibrations. Physiological vibrations actually serve useful purposes, which I cannot here detail.* The foregoing facts would indicate that Aran and others are wrong in stat- ing that fracture of the base is always accompanied by Assuring of the vault, which is tlie starting-point of the fracture. If this were ti-ue, the greatest force being applied to the weakest portion, the fissures should be widest apart at that point, becoming finer and less widely separated as they reach the stronger portions of the base, but the reverse obtains, and, whether starting in the vault—which I admit is very often the case—or not, the amplification of the vibrations increases the shattering of the base. In slighter basal frac- tures the vault is not fissured, and even Ilewett and Aran confess that the posterior clinoid jirocesses may be broken off, or the roofs of the orbits fis- sured, without any line of fracture directly reaching them. If, therefore, slight fractures of the base do occur witliout fissuring of the vault, severer ones, where the vault is injured, may be similai’ly produced. The separation of the basal sutures shown in a case which I have elsewhere reported, and two specimens in the flutter Museum, show that it would be impossible to produce the appearances presented if the fracture started in the vault; for then the upper continuation of the sutures would have been most widely separated. The suture could only have been separated as it was, had the fracture started in the vault, by some of the dentations being broken so as to drive one bone below the level of the other. Isothing of this sort was de- tectetl; but vibrations acting most forcibly on the base, would force apart the masto-occipital suture as if from within, and would cause precisely the appearances actually seen. Examining basal contusions of the brain, we shall find that they demon- strate this conduction of vibrations to certain points of the base of the skull. The middle lobes of the cerebrum are most often bruised, next come the anterior, and finally the posterior, “which,” says Ilewett, “owe their im- munity to lying upon the tentorium, while the others are injured by the sharp, irregular projections of the cranial base, which, although rounded off to a certain extent, and smoothed down by the dura mater, are still both sharp and numerous.” E”ow as contusions are frequently found in various portions of the brain Avithout fracture, and as even in basal fractures the bones are A’^ery rarely displaced, tlie only explanation, especially in contusions of the middle lobes, is to consider them as resulting from the conduction to that point of pOAverful vibrations. Xo one Avho remembers Avhat is really seen in post-mortem examinations of the brain-case, Avill accept the statement of “sharp, bony projections;” especially Avhen it is borne in mind that the sinuses and bloodvessels are tensely filled Avith fluid blood during life. As the occipital condyles often present two separate facets, if the head be extended Avhen a bloAv is inflicted upon it, or during a fall upon the feet, the force will affect chiefly the posterior facets, Avhile, if the head be flexed, the anterior ones bear the brunt.^ This goes far to explain, ahvays subject to the ' For details, see Hilton’s Lectures upon the Cranium, Gruy’s Hospital Reports, 2d series, vol. viii., p. 351 ; also a paper by the author, Phila. Med. Times, Oct. 23, 1880. 2 H. Allen has laid special stress upon the position of the head as determining the portion of the base broken.