APPEARANCES OF MEMBRANA TYMPANI IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. 357 thickened remnant, representing about a third of the entire membrane, still remains in situ. The hammer has probably been destroyed, but the familiar, triangular tigure, which represents the long process of the anvil and the posterior limb of the stirrup, may still be seen in the upper part of the drawing. Enlarged bloodvessels traverse the promontory. Below and to the right, will be observed a sharply outlined excavation, which represents the niche for the round*window (fenestra rotunda). In Figs. 5 and G, the evidences of former perforations are easily recognized, the newly-formed membranes, or “cicatrices,” as they are technically called, being thinner and more transparent than the surrounding, original membrana tympani. In Fig. 4, the lower pei-foration still remains open, and its thickened edges seem to have under- gone calcareous degeneration. Two other small patches of calcareous material lie between it and the short process of the hammer. The upper and much larger perfora- tion appears to have healed by cicatricial new-formation of membrane. Fig. 7 represents one of two conditions, viz., either a highly atrophied and sunken membrana tympani, or one which has been entirely reproduced after total destruction. The picture presented would be the same for either condition. The handle of the hammer apparently presses with its tip against the tissues of the promontory or inner wall of the tympanum. The deep shadow between the handle of the hammer and the posterior fold, shows how atmospheric pressure or adhesions have forced this part of the membrane far inward beyond the plane which it naturally occupies. Extensive calcareous deposits are shown in Figs. 9, 10, and 11. Extensive thick- ening, with still lingering inflammatory action, may be seen in Fig. 8. In Fig. 1‘2, healing seems to have taken place despite extensive proliferative and destructive pro- cesses. In the midst of the ruins, the handle of the hammer is barely recognizable.