INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 8G8 abdomen sliould be opened and tbe Ideeding vessel searched for. Desperate as such a course may seem, it is preferable to allowing tbe patient to die from bemorrbage wliicli might prove controllable. But the bleeding may be so sudden and profuse that no time is allowed for tbe adoption of any treatment. Such was the condition in the case of laceration of tbe aorta, recorded by ^1. Legouest.* A farrier received a kick from a horse, near the umbilicus, causing a transverse laceration of tbe left side of the aorta, one-fourth of an inch in length, and three fingers’ breadth above the promontory of the sacrum ; the hemorrhage was rapidly fatal. Contusion and Rupture of the Stomach and Small and Large Intes- tines.— Contusions of the gastro-intestinal tube are apt to be followed by acute or chronic infiammation of some or all of the coats of the part injured. Traumatic gastritis, enteritis, cpecitis, and colitis, whether of the acute or chronic form, present the same sjuiiptoms as when occurring idiopathically or from poison. The symptoms of these diseases are to be found described in works on medicine, but as they occasionally occur in surgical practice, it is necessary for the surgeon to be familiar witli their diagnosis and treatment. Briefly, then, it may be said that acute inflammation of the stomach or intestines is attended by severe local pain of a persistent character, but inter- rupted by paroxysms of pain still sharper; by acute tenderness on pressure, mucb febrile disturbance, thii’st, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal distension; by hurried and often painful respiration, a small, frecpient, wiry, or thready pulse, constipation, scanty and high-colored urine, a feeling of inward burning, exhaustion, and a countenance pinched and expressive of great distuess. If the case goes on to a fatal termination, the patient rapidly emaciates, and has a dark, sunken look about the eyes; his hands and feet become blue and cold; cold sweats sntfuse the face aiid extremities, the pulse intermits, hiccough sometimes occurs, a drowsy stu})Or with wandering delirium supervenes, the sphincters relax, possibly all })ain ceases, and the patient, having been brought to death’s door by way of asthenia, often hovers before it for a longer or shorter time, and then, in a maimer cpiite suddenly, vanishes through cardiac syncope. The diagnosis of gastritis, enteritis, etc., from local, acute perito- nitis, is very diflicult, and sometimes quite impossible ; but from the point of view of treatment this matters little, since these affections are but peritonitis with something more—namely, inflammation of the areolar and muscular tissues, as well as of the peritoneal coat. The symptoms of chronic inflammation of the various parts of the gastro- intestinal tube are frequently very obscure, and simulate chronic peritonitis. For their description we must refer to works on medicine. _.he surgeon must bear in mind, however, that chronic gastritis may run on into ulceration, sloughing, gastro-abdominal fistula, and permanent contraction from thicken- ing of the coats, or from cicatrization after ulceration. Similar results follow from chronic inflammation of any part of the intestinal tube. Complete intes- tinal obstruction may be caused by the thickening and contraction of the walls of the intestine after contusion. Alany years ago, a very typical case of this sort was communicated to the Academic de Chirurgie by M. Braillet,* and other somewhal similar cases have been recorded since. Reference will again be made to gastric and fecal fistulse arising from con- tusions and other injuries to the coats ot the viscera. iRupture of the stomach, or intestines is probably more frequent, and certainly ' Cliirurgie d’ Armee, 2e ed., p. 372. 2 Memoir of H^vin on Uastrotomy. Poland quotes this case ; see Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d series, vol. iv. p. I3(i, and Prize Essay, MS.