INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TUE NECK. 608 loosely connected with the surrounding structures. When the walls are thus hard and dense,the disease has been termed “cartilaginous” or “osseous” goitre. A considerable amount of the growth may consist of dilated bloodvessels, and if these burst so as to allow of bleeding into the substance of the tumor (into the cyst, or into the parenchyma), a species of apoplexy is produced. If it be the arteries which are chiefly enlarged and convoluted, the goitre has been designated “ aneurismal,” wliile if it be the veins which are mainlj- involved, it is termed “ varicose” goitre. Both sets of vessels, however, but in varying degrees, are commonly attected.^ Expansile pulsation, vibratory thrill, and “ bruit de soulfle” have been occasionally observed in aneurismal bronchocele. Tlie worst forms of goitre are met Avith in the narroAV valleys running into the great mountain ranges of Asia, Europe, and America. In many of these localities‘it is endemic. It is met Avitli in Erance, Savoy, and Switzerland; in the chalky parts of England and Central Scotland; in the A’alleys of the Himalayas, and in Thibet and Oude; in the Atlas range of ISTorth Africa ; in the Cordilleras of South America, and in Chili and Peru ; in IMexico and iii Virginia, and in other mountainous regions of jSTorth America. I have repeatedly seen it in patients from the high-lying districts in the centre of Scotland, Avhere it is little knoAvn to exist. A condition similar to that seen in man is occasionally found in dogs, horses, cows, and cats. Etiology of Goitre.—The hereditary character of goitre has not been clearly established, though it is often asserted. When both parents suffer from the disease, the childi’en are usually similarly affected, and are not unfrequently cretins and idiots. Whether, hoAvever, this result is not more correctly to he ascribed to the identity of exciting causes acting on both children and parents, rather than to any iidiorn influence, is at least a fair contention. The true cause of goitre has probably yet to be found. It has been diligently sought after and abundantly discussed. Coarse food ; impure Avater, from mix- ture Avith snoAV or calcareous matter (sulphate or carbonate of lime); vitiated air ; Avant of sunlight; a constant residence in loAA'-lying and damp, or in ele- vated, cold, and exposed habitations; a “peculiar state” of the atmosphere; physical conformation of the country; extremes of temperature; intermar- riage Avithin a narroAV circle; repeated congestions of the neck from A’iolent efforts Avhich force the blood into the vessels of the head and oppose its return—have all been described as its cause ; but none of these are constant concomitants, and at best are only entitled to he considered as predisposing causes. Sipnptoms.—Goitre is usually chronic in its progress, and may long remain stationary. Perhaps the most remarkable instances of acute bronchocele are those recorded in 1861 by Collin,^ as having occurred at Brian^on the year before. Women, especially those of a sanguineo-lymphatic constitution, are most subject to it. It seldom becomes developed till after a child has reached ten years of age, though it has been seen in rare cases to appear shortly after birth. A goitrous tumor rises and falls in deglutition, and is, as a rule, painless, and covered by unchanged skin, Avhose veins are unusually evident. It may be smooth or lohed, and of various shapes. It may exert severe and eA’en dan- gerous pressure on the Avindi)ipe {^'■goitre suffocanV)., and may cause alteration or loss of voice, and dysphagia. It has been seen to surround the trachea, and ]>enetrate hetAveen it and the oesophagus, so as to compress both passages. The trachea may he thus flattened or pushed to one side. The great vessels 1 See Ileidenreich, Der Kropf. 1845. 2 Recueil de M6iiioires de M^d. de Chir. et de Pliar. Militaires. 1861.