SUB-PARIETAL CONTUSION AND RUPTURE OF VISCERA. M75 ■* Trans. I'atli. Soc. Lond., vol. iii. ]i. 344. ^ Ann. il’Ilygiene, t. i., p. 133. 184G. the symptoms of severe iiitiammatioii of the coats of the howel arise after reduction has been etfected, in a case in which the slightness of the shock and the rapidity of the reaction dissi^iated all fear at the time, and induced the surgeon to employ a gentle taxis. Aston Key, however, was of opinion that in such a case the danger of fecal extravasation would not be increased by the replacement of the injured howel near the neck of the sac ; for should sloughing ensue, the slougli might he walled in by adhesions of the surround- ing peritoneum, and fecal extravasation would be thereby [irevented; or if the salutary })rocess of adhesion failed to insulate the slough, the sac would receive the fecal matter, and quietly give intelligence of the mischief by the tumefaction which would ensue in the }»arts outside. Rupture of the Solid A'iscera.—Rupture of the solid viscera may occur m the same manner as sub-parietal rupture of the hollow viscera or blood- vessels, without any wound or visible contusion of the abdominal wall. Rlows, falls, kicks, or conqiression, are the common causes of such accidents. It is stated by Taylor,* on the authority of Alale,^ that the liver may he rup- tured merely by a sudden action of the abdominal muscles; and Taylor like- wise refers to a case^ in which a fall on the feet from an elevation produced laceration of this organ. Sometimes tv\'o or more of tlie solid viscera are lacerated by the same violence. In a man brought into one of my beds at tlie Middlesex Hospital, over whose body a wagon had passed, there were found after death lacerations of the livci’, spleen, left kidney and supra-renal capsule, left lung, and pei'icardium, as Avell as several broken ribs, and a comminuted fractui-e of the tibia. -Vny of the solid organs of tlie abdomen maybe torn in one place, or in several; their peritoneal coat may not he lacerated, though most fro(j^uently it is. The liver, the spleen, and more nirely, hut still occasionally, the kidney and its supra-renal ca})sule, ma\' he injured by broken ribs, hut if so, the diaphragm is, as a rule, perforated also. 1 have before me as T write the notes of several such cases taken from the records of the Aliddlesex Hospital. Ripitures of these organs are generally fatal from hemorrhage and shock within a few hours; occasionally life is pro- longed for two, three, or more days, and is terminated by recurrent or slowly continued hemorrhage, or by peritonitis. Alackmurdo* had a case in St. Thomas’s Hospital, of extensive laceration of the liver, and the patient sur- vived seven iveeks. The man, aged twenty-three years, remained collapsed for forty-eight hours, and then slowly revived. Peritonitis supervened, and tlie abdomen swelled ; there was distinct liuctuation detected on the I’ight side of the belly ; and the patient died from sniq»ression of breathing due to the upward displacement—as high as the third rib and second dorsal vei-tcbra—of the right leaflet of the diaphragm and right lung, by a circumscribed collection of serum, blood, blood clot, and bile-stained lymph. Recovery may, however, be the result if the injury is confined to one organ, and is not very extensive; when the peritoneal covering is unbroken, the chance of recovery is greater, jilthough abscess of the liver may result. iVs it is quite impossible to diag- nose laceration of the substance, unaccompanied by laceration of the ca}>sule, of these organs, there is always the susjiicion, in cases which recover, that th.e injury has lieen merely a contusion followed by localized })eritonitis, unless abscess of the Injured organ has formed. The ]»roofof the cicatrization of wounds of tlie solid viscera is found in persons who have lived for some weeks after the rupture, and have died of supjmration or of some associate injury; or who have altogether recovered from the injur}', and have subsequently died ' Meil. .Furisin'niteiico, p. 449. ISGf). 2 Epitiimc of .Juridical or Forensic Medicine, p. 119.