297 DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE AURICLE. ing of the central and upper portions of the auricle. Fluctuation is easily recognized, and an incision affords escape to a yellowish, or pinkish, and rather sticky fluid. In some cases the tumor is almost black in color, and dark blood is evacuated by an incision. If exposure to excessive heat or excessive col'I be the cause of the perichondritis, two or three isolated centres of disease may be found. At a still later stage areas of ulceration may be seen, and frequently, in cases of chondromalacosis, there may be more or less thickening and deform- ity of the intervening parts. I have known the auricle to present, under such circumstances, every appearance of being cancerously affected. The prognosis in this class of eases has reference sim])ly to the degree of deformity which is likely to result from the disease. In simple perichon- dritis the prognosis is favorable. If the abscess or collection of fluid is opened early and freely, very little, if any, deformity will be left after the parts have healed. In chondromalacosis, the degree of permanent deformity will depend chiefly upon tlie extent of cartilage destroyed, and only to a slight degree upon the inflammatory thickening of the perichondrium. In the matter of treatraent^ we must be guided by the condition or stage in which we find the disease. If a tense, fluctuating swelling exists, we should incise it and evacuate the fluid contenfs of the tumor. Care must Ije taken not to make too small an incision, as our aim should be to place the diseased parts in such a condition that we may easily keep them thorougldy clean, and at the same time may with equal facility bring our remedial appli- cations—nitrate of silver or tincture of iodine (either the simple or the compound tincture)—in contact with them. In some instances, pressure will promote the healing of the parts that have lieen kept separate for some time by fluid effusion. Cod-liver oil and a more generous diet will be found use- ful adjuncts in the treatment of many of these cases. Xew Growths.—Among the tumors of which the auricle may become the seat, the most common are undoubtedly the fibroid growths of the lobule. Their origin can very often be traced to the irritation produced by the wear- ing of an ear-ring. As a rule, they do not attain a size larger than that of a filbert or a hazel-nut, but in exceptional cases they have been known to grow to the size of a hen’s egg. Xegresses, it appears, are peculiarly liable to ac- quire fibroid growths of tlie lolmlc of the ear. The best plan of removing these tumors is to include the mass in a V-shaped incision, great care being taken to remove every trace of the growth, as otherwise, in a short time, a second one may be looked for at the same spot. Relapses, indeed, have repeatedly occurred, after the greatest care had been taken to remove every portion of tissue that seemed in the slightest degree likely to contain the germs of a new growth of tlie same nature. I remember a case of recur- reut fibroid tumor of the auricle, in which the most careful search -with the microscope failed to discover any cellular elements in any part of the mass. Augeioma and epithelioma of the auricle occur with nearly equal frequency, and both forms of tumoi- are much less common than the fibroma. In the early stage of an epithelioma^ excision of the growth with a V-shaped portion of the periphery of the auricle, is tlie proper treatment to adopt; but at a later stage, when there are scattered foci of the disease—some of them too small to be distinguished by the naked eye—nothing short of complete amputation will suffice to arrest the advance of the malady. In cases of angeioma^ Trof. Rolitzer recommends the employment of raquelin’s thermo- cautery. If the vascular tumor lie of small size, he says that it may be de- stroyed at a single sitting, Imt that in the larger tumors the cauterization should be confined to a limited area, and that the procedure should then be repeated.