INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 950 Unfortunately, the diagnosis and relief of these conditions when situated high up, are not as easy as in the case of an ischio-rectal abscess; the mis- chief is often terribly far advanced before its cause is even surmised, and death ensues from septic absorption, hectic, or peritonitis. When a fecal abscess has been recognized and properly treated, by laying it open, irrigating, and draining it—or when it has spontaneously rujitured into the bowel or bladder—theprognosismust largely depend upon thecause of the extravasation. If due to simple ulceration, to violence, or to suppuration the result of violence, and beginning outside the bowel, there is hope of recovery, even without a permanent fecal fistula. On the other hand, if the extravasation have origi- nated in cancer or tubercle; from complicated adhesions resulting in obstruc- tion ; from some disease behind the peritoneum, such as caries of bone, pan- creatic calculus, or wide-spread su})puration in the cellular tissue arising from some inveterate disease of the uterine appendages, there is no probability of recovery. TbS destructive processes will continue and extend, and though death may come slowly, it will come surely, from blood-poisoning, exhaustion, or acute general peritonitis, due to the bursting of the abscess into the cavity of the peritoneum. It is unnecessary to dwell upon the various symptoms wliich may arise, and the differences which occur in fecal extravasations, as these resolve tliemselves into the symptoms of retro-peiltoneal abscess. Fas is sometimes extravasated into the retro-peritoneal tissue from some neighboring part, such as the pleural cavity, the sheath of a muscle, a he- [)atic, renal, oj’ cystic abscess, etc., or from beneath tlie [leriosteum of a carious bone. But though in these cases sup[»uration does not originate in the retro- pei’itoneal cellular tissue, yet when once there, it lights up fresh suppuration, and, therefore, purulent extravasation may fitly be considered under the head of retro-peritoneal suppuration. In fact, all forms of extravasation are liable to excite retro-peritoneal suppuration, but the })robabilify of their doing so varies. Thus, whilst the tendency of blood to become absorbed, is, in comparison, considerable, and its tendency to break down and cause suppuration but slight; the ten- dency of urine to be al>sorbed is slight, and to excite suppuration consider- able ; wliilst extravasated feces will surely provoke suppuration, though some- times only to a limited extent, and in the form of a small fecal abscess with thick surrounding walls, instead of in a diffused manner and over a large area. Retro-peritoneal Suppuration.— Causes.—Retro-peritoneal suppuration may arise from blows and wounds, and other forms of external violence; from sprains of musculai’ or fibrous tissues; from cold, and various condi- tions of the blood, such as occur in fever; and from all the forms of retro- peritoneal extravasation and their causes. Recrosis of the ribs, vertebra?, sacrum, or innominate bone; suppuration of the retro-peritoneal lymphatic glands; the burrowing of pus through the foramina of the pelvis in hip-joint disease, from an abscess of the liver, gall-bladder, pancreas, or spleen, or from an empyema or }»ulmonic abscess, may each give rise to it. Suppuration idjout a stricture of tlie oesophagus, or witliin the [)elvis of the kidney, whether from impacted calculus, cancer, or tubercle; the rupture of a renal cwst; hydatids ; and disease of the uterus or its a})pendages, of the bladder, or of the intestine, have each their share in its causation. Ulcer of the duodenum should be specially mentioned, and so might ulcer of the rectum, typhlitis, and perityphlitis. 0|)erations about the urethra, prostate, bladder, rectum, scrotum, testis, and spermatic cord, are prone to excite retro-peritoneal sup- puration, on account (1) of the sub-jteritoneal connective tissue; (2) of the venous connections of these parts; and (3) of the associate nervous influences.