474 HsJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ’FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. and extent of tlie deformity, and tlie character of the material of Ayhich the surgeon can avail himself in restoring the disfigured features to a condition approaching as nearly as possible to their normal configuration. To obtain anything like a satisfactory result, it is essential that the transplanted flaps should be composed externally of skin, and internally of mucous mem- brane. The lips and cheeks are the only available material for this purpose, and the French method of approximating the transplanted flajis to the pai-t to which it is to be attached, without twisting its pedicle, is the only method of which Ave can ordinarily avail ourselves. The disadvantage of this method, in cases Avhere there is a large chasm to be filled up, is that the flaps cannot be adjusted to each other Avithout such a degree of tension as to endanger the success of the operation. This difficulty may sometimes be overcome by making free incisions beyond the base of the flap, to relieve the tension, and by alloAving the space thus made vacant to heal by granulation and cicatrization. The healing pf this space may sometimes be promoted by skin-grafting. Another mode of relieving the tension of the flaps is to give a very consider- able curvature to their peduncles. In many cases the success of the operation Avill greatly depend on the adoption of this expedient. In cases in which there is a very great relative deficiency of the loAver lip and superfluity of the upper lip, or vice versa, a flap may be transplanted from the superfluous lip to supply material to the defective one, by one of the ingenious processes of the late Dr. Gordon Buck. This seems to be almost the only condition in Avhich a cheiloplastic operation maybe advantageously performed by the Indian method. In cases in Avhich there is a very contracted state of the mouth, and in Avhich there is no available mucous membrane in the vicinity to in\"est the borders of the lips which are to be reconstructed, it has occiu’red to me that the difficulty might be obviated by transplanting a flap of integument from the neck, and inserting it through an incision along the base of the loAver jaAv, so as to line the outer integument, and supply the place of mucous membrane. When there is no suitable integument in the immediate vicinity of the face, a flap of integument may be partially detached from the thorax or abdomen, and attached to the margin of the hand or forearm, and at a later period it may be secondarily transplanted so as to form a mucous lining in the lip or cheek. Cheiloplastic operations may be divided into four classes, according as they are designed (1) to supply deficiencies of the upjDer lip ; (2) To supplj' defi- ciencies of the loAver lip ; (3) To supply deficiencies of both lips ; and (4) To sujAply deficiencies or correct malpositions of the angles of the mouth. In cases of hai’elip, in Avhich there is a very Avide chasm to be filled, it is sometimes necessary to make an incision outAvard and backv^ard on each side from the angles of the mouth, through the Avhole thickness of the cheeks, and a parallel incision at the junction of the lip Avith the nose, thus making flaps from each side to bridge the chasm. In such cases, a ncAv vermilion border to the upper lip is made by attaching the mucous membrane to the skin by fine sutures. If the flaps do not meet Avithout tension, the incisions may be prolonged in a curved direction outAvard and doAviiAA^ard, until the tension is entirely relieved. Dieffenbach proposed a plastic operation for the restoration of the upper lip, by making a vertical incision upAvard from the angle of the mouth to a point above the level of the nostril, thence making a horizontal incision out- Avard to an extent fully equal to the breadth of the space to be occupied by the reconstructed lip, and thence a vertical incision doAviiAvard nearly to the level of the angle of the mouth, thus making a quadrangular flap remaining attached belovv. This flap Avas to be turned horizontally iiiAvard, so that its