307 METHODS OF EXAMINING THE MIDDLE EAR. tlie introduction, into tlie meatus, of some sharp-pointed object against which a blow is received. These lacerated wounds of the auditory canal, or rather of the cartilaginous portion of the canal, present only one feature of special interest: I refer to the persistent bleeding which so frequently characterizes them. This symptom is undoubtedly to be attributed to the fact that those bloodvessels which pierce the cartilaginous framework, as many of them do, are not capable of contracting and retracting beyond a very limited extent ;i their physical relations being essentially the same as those of the blood- vessels which traverse bony structures. The cpiestion of treatment calls for no special remark. I7ew Growths.—The commonest form of new growth in the external audi- tory canal is the osteoma. It is encountered both in the form of an exostosis and in that of a more ditiuse hyperostosis. The latter variety is more frequent than the former. In many cases, the development of new bone is clearly depen- dent upon indammatory disturbances in the skin of the osseous portion of the canal, which is at the same time a periosteum, but in others no satisfactory ex- planation of the cause can be given. On an examination of the meatus with the speculum and reflected light, the picture presented to the eye of the observer is either that of a smooth, Imt very much contracted canal, or of one from some portion of which a hemispherical, broad-based, and very smooth mass, or one with a more or less well-deflned neck, projects. The necessity to operate upon an exostosis may arise, as it appears to me, only under two conditions —viz., when, by its encroachment upon the calibre of the meatus, the tumor seriously diminishes the power of hearing (the other ear being, at the same time, either totally or markedly deaf), or 'when, by its damming up a discliarge from the middle ear, it threatens to superinduce serious disease of the brain or other adjacent organs. In the latter event, the establishment of a counter- opening in the mastoid process may be found an easier, and yet equally eflec- tive, means of attbrding an outlet for the pent-up matter. Primary carcinoma of the external auditory canal is exceedingly rare, and furthermore, in the few published records of cases, it is not made wholly clear that the tumor did not develop primarily in some neighboring region. Sarcoma is also very rare as a primary growth in this region of the ear. Cysts., with fluid or semi-solid contents, are occasionally encountered in the auditory canal. Those with fluid contents in the vicinity of the drum-mem- brane are, I might almost say, always secondary to some attection of the middle ear. In some instances, however, the primary disease recedes so com- pletely, that the cyst-like formation in the meatus gains proportionally in individuality, and may even be taken for a tumor of primary development. As the description of these secondary cysts belongs more })roperly under the heading of diseases of the middle ear, I will say nothing further on the subject in the present section. Methods of Examining the Middle Ear. The cavity of the middle ear is open to direct inspection only when, through disease, a large portion of the drum-membrane has lieen destroyed. Under other circumstances, we are obliged to infer what the condition of this cavity is, from a variety of data, such as the degree of acuteness of tlie hearing, the appearances presented by the drum-membrane, both before and after air has been forced into the tympanum, the character of the sounds heard through an auscultation tube during the performance of this operation, the condition of the integuments covering the mastoid process, the state of the naso-})haryngeal