448 DISEASES AJJD INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. Diseases of the Antrum of Highmore. The mucous membrane which lines the interior of the cavity of the antrum, being but a direct continuation of the nasal or Schneiderian membrane, is liable, though not to the same degree as the latter, to develop inflammatory conditions, which are the result of a direct extension of the process by con- tiiiuity of tissue from the nasal passage, and the converse is likewise true.^ In many cases, the primary evidences of the antral affection may be detected in the nasal passage, by means of an anterior or posterior rhiuoscopic exami- nation ; and as the resulting inflammation, swelling, and displacement of the nasal parts may be great in either case, and well calculated to deceive, a brief consideration of the commoner diseases of the antrum which occur in con- nection with those of the nose, is desirable at this point. Inflammation and abscess are the affections most frecpiently met with. Any extension of a severe catarrhal, syphilitic, or, more rarely, herpetic or variolous inflammation of the nasal mucous membrane, is an efficient factor in producing a like condition of that of the antrum—one which varies both in its degree, extension, and rapidity of development, as well as in the amount and charac- ter of the attendant secretion, which may be either mucous or muco-purulent. Salter has called attention to the peculiar circumstance which here gives importance to this altered and more abundant secretion, and to the disease ; viz., that it may be confined within the sinus by means of the swelling and turgescence of the mucous membrane around its orifice, and that thus, from a mere anatomical arrangement, a catarrhal inflammation, spending itself by superficial suppuration, may lead to the formation of a shut, expanding sac, in many respects equivalent to a deep-seated abscess, though by no means identical ivith that condition either in pathological history or absolute ana- tomy. Aside from the above causes, affections of the teeth—dental caries, or alveolar abscess, in some stage, associated with disease of the teeth—are b}" far the commonest factors in the production of the disease. The peculiar ana- tomical relation which tlie anti-um bears to the teeth is well known ; it varies greatly, as regards both the extension of the antrum over the fangs of many or few teeth, and the degree in which these fangs approach or pierce the floor of the sinus. (Salter.) Other causes only occasionally exist; thus a blow upon the cheek has been known to excite acute inflammation witliin the antrum, and it has developed in the infant from injuries received during labor.^ A case of abscess depending upon the presence of polypi within the antrum, is reported by Watson. Another, in which the cause was a bony tumor lying loose within the cavity, will be found in the Edinburgh Medical Review, October, 1867; and, finally, necrosis of the alveolar ridge, the presence of a tooth thrust into the cavity in endeavoring to extract it, and that of various other foreign bodies, introduced by violence, may all act as exciting causes of inflammation and suppuration.® The tendency of the inflammatory process arising from any of these causes, to extend to or involve the nasal passage, has been alluded to. The physical signs of inflammation and pus-formation in the cavity of the antrum, vary necessarily in degree, and differ according to the exciting cause. Much depends, in regard to their severity, upon whether there he an outlet for the discharge of the pus, either through the natural opening of the > Wolfram (On the treatment of catarrh of the antrum), Berlin klin. Wochenschr., No. 6. 1879. 2 Druitt, Surgeon’s Vade Mecum, p. 431. ® See, also, Weichselbaum (On phlegmonous inflammation of the accessory cavities of the nose), Med. Jahrhuch, Heft. ii. 1881.