CHOLECYSTOTOMY. 1073 In April, 1878, Dr. Marion Sims* deliberately planned and performed the operation in a case of dropsy of the gall-bladder, and removed about sixty stones as well as the fluid contents; the patient died eight days after the operation, and at the post-mortem examination there were found other sixteen stones in the gall-bladder; all the biliary ducts were sacculated, and the small biliary tubes within the liver were much enlarged. Since then the operation has been performed l:)y Mr. Lawson Tait,^ Mr. Meredith, of the Samaritan Hospital for Women, London, and other surgeons [including Kocher, Rosenbach (two cases). Savage, Bobbs, Eansohofl', 'Winiwater, Gard- ner, Eddowes, and Keen, who has operated twice, and, in conjunction with Dr. .1. II. Musser, has published an interesting article on the subject].^ Mr. Tait informs me that he has now operated on ten* occasions ; that all the patients have recovered, and that in every case, save one, the operation has been successful in its results. In these nine cases the cause of the dis- tension was calculus, and the contents of the galblfladder mucus, though in three cases suppuration Avas beginning. Mr. Meredith’s case has not yet been published, but he has furnished me, very kindly, Avith the full notes of it. Three stones, weighing collectively 1 ounce 2(5 grains avoirdupois, Avere ex- tracted. The patient died forty-eight hours after the operation, Imt l\Ir. Mere- dith believes that the result Avould have been very different had the patient not had unsound kidneys, Avith almost complete suppression of urine some hours after the operation. At the post-mortem examination the gall-bladder (which had been stitched up aiul returned into the abdomen at the time of the opera- tion) contained nearly a half pint of thick bile, the cystic ami common duct Avere quite unobstructed, and the duodenum contained a considerable ({uantity of bile. There was no trace of peritonitis, although se\"eral ounces of dark bile were found free amongst the coils of small intestine; the bile, Mr. ]\lere- dith believes, escaped during the operation from tlie sponges introduced around the exposed gall-bladder, OAving to the violent retching efforts of the patient Avhilst under the anaesthetic. The condition of the sutured AAmund in the gall-bladder, he adds, negatives the idea of the bile having escaped there- from after the operation. There are tAVO methods of performing cholecystotomy, namely: (1) by the j plan suggested by Maunrler, in Avhich the steps of the operation are divided I by an interval of time into two stages—stitching the gall-bladder to the 1 parietes, and Avaiting until after adhesions have formed before opening the viscus. Maunder adopted this practice in enterotornjg and it is iioaa" pretty commonly folloAved in gastrostomy. (2) The other plan is that carried out by Marion Sims, and folloAved by LaAvson Tait. It consists in opening the gall-bladder and stitching it to the parietes at one o]^)eration. An in- cision from tliree to four inches long is made cither in the linea alba (Tait), or over the outer border of the right rectus muscle (ISIeredith), or over the 1 prominence of the tumor parallel to the linea all)a (Sims). All 1 )leeding should 1 be sto[)ped before opening the peritoneum. When the gall-bladder is ex}»osed, it should be emptied of its fluid contents by the aspirator, and aftenvards incised at the point of puncture, so as to admit the flngei- freely into its interior. Great care must be taken to hold the cut edges of the gall-bladder Avell up into the external Avound, so tliat nothing shall escape into the pei-itoneal cavity. AVith minute pieces of sponge, in holders, the interior of the gall-bladder should be well cleansed, and any movable or loose calculi sliould be removed with ring forceps, or other suitable instrument. The edges ot the Avound in the I gall-bladiler should then be stitched with the continuous suture (Tait), or Avith Brit. Med. .Tonrnal, .June 8, 1878. ® Ain. .Toiirn. Med. Sciences; Oct. 1884. VOI.. V.—(18 2 Med.-Cliir. Trnns., vol. Ixiii. [Since increased to thirteen.]