536 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. Fibroma appears to owe its origin in many cases to tlie irritation of decayed teeth, which may sometimes be found imbedded in the tumor, or displaced by it. is^o treatment less radical than the removal of the portion of bone from the periosteum of which the tumor springs, can be of avail in the periosteal variety of fibroma, but in the form in which the bone, and particu- larly tlie lower jaw, is expanded by a slow-growing tumor within it, less heroic measures may be successful. I have already referred to a case in which I re- moved a fibroma from within the antrum by enucleation, Avith complete success, and numerous museum specimens serve to show that the lower jaAv is often expanded [by fibrous tumors which are amenable to this treatment. Sir James Paget’ has strongly recommended the adoption of the practice of enucleating non-malignant tumors of bone, in all parts of the body, and it is one decidedly to be followed in suitable cases. Enciiondroma is of less frccpient occurrence in the jaws than fibroma, and like it may be either periosteal or endosteal. The tumor appears, ordinarily, early in life, springing from the surface of either jaw, or from within the antrum or the interior of the lower jaw, and grows steadil}^ and more rapidly than a fibroma. It is more tuberous and harder than a fibroma, and in the case of the upper jaAV is apt to send processes into the fissures and cavities of the skull, thus giving rise to great deformity by involving tlie nose and orbit. Many remarkable sjiecimens of this kind are to be found in museums, the patient in some cases having been sufibcated by the groAvth involving the month and pharynx. And yet, in these cases, it Avill be seen that the tumor does not invade the surrounding parts except hy its pres- sure, and could have been enucleated. Enciiondroma has undoubtedly a greater tendency to recur locally than has fibroma, and it is essential therefore in its treatment that free removal should be practised. Mr. George LaAV- soid has recorded a case of enciiondroma of the lower jaAV upon Avhich Sir W. Fergnsson operated six times, recurrence taking place on each occasion, and eA^entually leading to the formation of a large mass Aveighing eighteen ounces, Avhich Mr. LaAvson successfully removed. I have also recorded® a remarkable instance of repeated recurrences of a cartilaginous tumor, extending over five and twenty years; the patient died of erysipelas, and no secondary deposits Avere found in the internal organs. Oases of deposit in the lungs, Avhich have been from time to time recorded after the removal of enchoiidromata, have been doubtless examples of “ chondro-sarcoma,” an affection Avhich Avill be considered hereafter, and Avliich has but recently been ditferentiated from simple eiichondroma. Enciiondroma of the jaAvs may have fibrous tissue mixed Avith it, or may in great part be converted into bone; and no doubt many of the reniarkahle osseous tumors of the jaAvs to be found in museums, Avere originally cartilagi- nous in their nature. Osteoma is found in the jaAvs as a cancellous or as an ivory tumor. The sini[)lest form is the condensed hypertrophy due to the presence of a misplaced tootli, and the fact that numerous serious operations have been performed in these cases, should make the surgeon especially careful as to his diagnosis. The cancellous osteoma has a covering of compact bone of A^arying thickness, but sometimes so thin as to crackle under the finger. It groAvs sloAvly to a A^ery large size, as may be seen in a remarkable specimen in the Musee ' Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. liv. 2 Lancet, June 8, 1878. ® Injuries and Diseases of the Jaws, p. 244.