TREATMENT OF PLEURAL EFFUSIONS. 819 into the chest. A full foot at least of tubing should be used to start with. The tube being passed in as far as it will go readily, the canula is withdrawn, while the tube is held in place. The fluid is let flow as long as it will, the spray playing steadily on the opening, hut while the entrance of air into the chest is not solicited, no precaution is taken to avoid it; as the fluid drains away, the tube is transfixed with a needle carrying a stout silk thread, or better a link of good salmon-gut, and being held securely by the silk or gut, as the case may be, is cut olf flush with the skin, the ends of the liga- ture being knotted in a safe knot which shall not be liable to slip, and fastened with a slip of isinglass plaster to the chest-wall, at some little distance above the opening. An antiseptic dressing is duly applied and secured, and the operation is completed. It is well not to complete the di’essing until all matter which will flow without pressure or eflbrt has ceased to run, for thus a longer interval will be obtained between the operation and the first subse- (pient dressing. The advantage of the salmon-gut above either silken thread or silver wire, in retaining the tube in place, is that its stiffness is sufficient to prevent the tube slipping either in or out, wliile it is pliant enough to prevent irritation by its ends constantly pricking the skin. Aothing should prevent the care- ful securing of the tube, for it is prone to slip either inward or outward; if inward, it may be difficult to withdraw it, and a thread which is too weak may break in the attempt; or if the knot have been tied in a “ granny” it may slip, and thus the tube, as we have seen, may be lost in the chest. If the tube slip out, trouble and inconvenience result too, but of less importance. The form of antiseptic dressing used may be either Lister's gauze, or Thiersch’s salicylic jute and cotton, or a combination of both. In the early stages of the case, when the discharge is apt to be great and often variable in amount, the combination appears preferable, as the carbolic gauze, with its in- cluded layer of Mackintosh, protects the region of the wound from too direct a stream of air, while tlie salicylic jute, applied immediately over the wound, yields a constant supply of a non-volatile antiseptic to the fluids passing through its fibres ; thus the fluid, should it flow out l)eyond the mar- gins of the dressing, carries a sufficient amount of the acid with it to prevent its putrefaction—a security which carbolic acid will not give, for its vola- tility allows the fluids freely exposed to the air to putrefy rapidly. At a later period, when the discharge has become limited and constant, or steadily ditninishing, in quantity, an external dressing of salicylic cotton, carefully fixed to the chest-wall, furnishes a perfect filter to the air, entering even directly through its fibres and those of a jute-pad placed beneath. At each dressing, a spray is directed over the region of the wound, and the details are carried out in all respects as ni ordinary wounds, except only that the drainage tube is maintained of full size, and pervious, with a free flow of air in and out during the movements of breathing. Should the tube, as the dis- charge diminishes, become blocked, so that air cannot enter—an accident par- ticularly likely to occur as the disease abates and the discharge is reduced to a few drachms—a change of dressing becomes necessaiy, for the patient grows uneasy and restless from the defective movements of the cliest; as the cavity becomes closed, the tube may be gradually shortened, and at last, after care- ful examination of the physical signs, witlidrawn, but tins may only be done when respiratory sounds are audible in close relation to the opening. It is better to err on the side of overloug maintainance of drainage, than to risk a too early removal of the tube. All these processes may extend over a period of many months, but with either dressing, perfect antiseptic results, and finally recovery, may be obtained, with ordinary care and appreciation of the principles which govern such cases.