DISEASES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. 381 finally a smooth, though congested raucous membi’ane, dotted with small rounded eminences, marking the site of the outlying hypertrophied follicles of the pharyngeal tonsil is reached; above, it is 'separated from the plane of the posterior nares by a sharp, deep line of demarcation. The consistency of the tumors is soft, they do not bleed readily, and their color is of either a light pink or deep bluish-red. They are, as a rule, seen only in children and young persons. Adults, even the victims of an old-standing nasal catarrh, seldom, if ever, exhibit the appearances of excessive hypertrophy of the glandular tissues at tlie vault of the pharynx, here described. Its absence in them, and its frequency in children, would seem to argue in favor of an atrophy of these structures, as life advances; or, as Cohen suggests, it may be that changes occurring towards middle life, render this tissue like the analogous tissue of the tonsils and agminated glands of the intestine, insus- ceptible to the catarrhal inflammations of youth. Treatment.—Since hypertrophic nasal catarrh is the form of the affection which more frequently presents itself for treatment, mainly on account of the annoying symptoms to which it gives rise in the patient, the consideration of the medical and surgical measures adapted for the relief of its morbid con- ditions, assumes special importance. Fortunately, the surgeon is here in a position, mainly through the employment of surgical means' it must be ad- mitted, to attain excellent and often brilliant results. Aside from the occasional employment in these cases, as well as in the other forms of nasal catarrh, of a general remedial course of treatment suiteil to the existing diathesis, and the indications for the employment of which will suggest themselves in each individual case, the question here arises, whether any of the special agents of the Pharmacopoeia, that have been from time to time recommended as having a useful therapeutic effect upon the mucous membrane of the respiratory passages in a diseased condition, is in reality of great value. I believe that this is questionable. I have made use of many, and have never been able to convince myself that any one possessed a decided, specific effect. Cuhehs, ammoniacum, muriate of ammonium, and per- haps sulphur, have given the best temporary, and sometimes permanent results. In each case, however, their use has been associated with that of local and direct treatment of the mucous membrane. The latter is of unquestionable value. If the disease is moderate in extent, and the hypertrophy of the tissues not excessive, conqiletc resolution may be effected by the application of such astringent and resolvent solutions, in spray, as are specially indicated. Pre- liminary instrumental cleansing of the nasal passages will probably be requi- site in the majority of instances; but the practitioner, hearing in mind that this may be a possible source of irritation, should always assure himself first that the removal of the secretions cannot be effected by the patient’s blowing his nose, etc. The nasal spray apparatus, with the cleansing solution (see page 3GG), here renders effective service when its use is necessary. Occasion- ally it must be superseded by tlie posterior nasal syringe, when the secretions, especially at the vault of the pharynx, are thick ami tenacious, or when the occlusion of the nasal passages anteriorly is so great that a s[)ray cannot he forced through them. Following the cleansing process conies the next pro- cedure, viz., the application of medicated spray, suited both in strength, amount, and nature to the individual ease (see page 377); or, if solutions of astringents or other drugs are not well tolerated, the insnttfation of the proper powder. On the other liand, if the catarrhal process he first seen in its advanced stages, when a firmly organized neoplastic tissue exists in large degree, and * Seiler, Surgical Treatment of Nasal Catarrh. Phila. Med. Times, No. 362. 1881.