DEFICIENCIES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE NOSE. 443 has called attention to an asymmetrical rate of growth of the visceral arches, which prevents the perfect shaping of the oral and nasal cavities: one arch being more actively developed than its fellow, one nasal cavity will be found narrowed and obstructed, the other abnormally large, and tlie septum deflected from the median line. In such cases of congenital deformity, the teeth also are irregular, especially the permanent incisors ; the two halves of the upper dental arch are V-shaped, and the vault of the mouth is high and narrow. The nose will thus he rendered misshapen, prominent, and project- ing, not only on account of the high-pitched hard palate which pushes its parts forward, but likewise on account of the retarded growth of the perpen- dicular plate of the ethmoid, which prevents its normal development poste- riorly. The marked influence which the cartilaginous septum plays when congenitally misshapen or distorted, in producing a lateral distortion of the nose in its external contour, lias been already alluded to (see page 407). and the operative measures necessary for the relief of that condition liave been described. When nasal bones and alie as well as septum are laterally distorted, surgical attempts at remed^flng the condition are not attended with much suc- cess ; and, unless the deformity be excessive, which is rarely the case, liad lietter not be undertaken. Various “ nose-machines’’ have been devised to eflect a cure by straightening the organ mechanically; one consistsof two ]iarallel plates of iron, well padded inside, and properly curved so as to adjust themselves to the shape of the nose to be ojierated upon. The upper and lower portions of these plates are furnished with screws, passing horizontally from one plate to the other, so that they niay be properly adjusted as regards the degree of compression. Another apparatus consists of a metallic arm, fast- ened to a head-band, and furnished at its end w'ith a small pad, which, when the instrument is in ])Osition, is so arranged as to press directly upon the point of greatest convexity of tlie distorted nose; the degree of compression is regulated by means of a cog-wheel joint. It is possible that, could tlie patient be induced to wear either of these forms of apparatus for a sufli- cieutly long time, some change in the position of the nasal parts would follow. The severe deformity which follows injuries and certain destructive DISEASES, such as lupus,erosive syphilitic ulcer, and the like, and which involves not unfrequently parts of the cheeks and lips, as well as the whole of both in- ternal and external parts of the nose, is comnionl3^ such as to tax both the skill and the ingenuity of the surgeon who is required to repair the damage sustained by the loss of the parts, to remove the disflgurement produced by the destruc- tive disease, or by violence, oi-, it may be added, to reined}" the deformities of congenital malformation. Fortunately, how'ever, the results obtained by operation within the last half century in such cases, are among the most satisfactory achievements of surgery’. In extreme cases, w'here the exter- nal nose has been entirely destroyed, the hideous and distiguring chasm left in the face may be to some extent, in probably all cases, covered in by operation ; it can at least be hidden by an artiflcial organ, even wliere the natural and necessary framework of cartilage and bone is altogether lost. The modern surgeon does not despair of success in forming at least a sightly" if not beautiful nose. Where some portion only’ of the organ, usually its extreme point, is wanting as the result of accident or disease, or Avbere depressions with loss of substance exist as the result of s.yphilis, a rbinoplastic operation of some nature is indicated, and is often, by the ingenious methods ot modern surgery, rendered a brilliant success. The details of the various methods which are employed iij cases of this kind, are ftdly considered in