308 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR, mucous membrane, tlie results obtained with the tuning-fork test, the subjec- tive symptoms as descril)ed by the patient, etc. Of all these data, the most valuable is unquestionably the appearance presented by the membrana tym- pani. A perfectly normal condition of the tympanic mucous membrane, and a perfect condition of the function of hearing, are scarcely possible, unless the memhrana tympani is subjected to the same degree of atmospheric pressure on both sides. To maintain such a condition of equilibrium between the inner and the outer atmosjiheric pressure, I^ature has constructed the Eustachian tube, or the channel of communication between the middle ear and the throat, in such a way that the air can readily pass through it, to and from the cavity of the tympanum. When this channel becomes obstructed by mucus, or closed through the swollen state of its walls, the condition of equilibrium ceases to exist; for the air coniined in the middle ear rapidly becomes rarefied through absorption, and, as a result, the greater pressure upon the outer surface of the drum-membrane forces it inward beyond the position which it occupied when pressure and counter-pressure Avere exactly equal. The degree of patency of the Eustachian tube may therefore be esti- mated with considerable accuracy by a careful inspection of the drum-mem- brane. A slight diminution in the perviousness of the tube to air, will show itself in a shortening of the triangular “ bright spot,” Avliich should extend from the immediate neighborhood of the “ umbo,” or tip-end of the handle of the hammer, nearly to the periphery of the membrane ; in a change in the outer surface of the membrane, which, instead of the form of a shallow cone, assumes that of a saucer, or segment of a hollow sphere; and, finally, in some cases, in an increased transparency of the membrane. Only a practised eye can note changes of such a very slight degree. In the more marked cases of tubal obstruction, the “ bright spot” will be found indeed to be a mere spot in the central part of the membrane, in front of the “ umbo;” the unnatural concavity of the membrane will be readily recognized by even an unpractised eye; and its transparency may be so great as to delude even an expert into the belief that he is looking directly into a middle ear which lias been deprived of its membrana tympani. This peculiar transparency of the membrane may be lacking; and in that event our attention Avill probablj^ be attracted by other equally striking changes in the relations of the parts. I refer to the marked prominence of the short process of the hammer, to the sunken condition of the soft parts {memhrana Jiaccida) immediately surrounding this bony prominence, to the sharply-defined outlines of the posterior fold, to the fore- shortening of the handle of the hammer, and to its a})})arent nearness to and parallelism with the posterior margin of the membrana tympani. Inspection of the membrana tympani, when illuminated by reflected light, reveals to us still other conditions of this membrane and of the adjacent tym- panic cavity. Thus, for example, we may learn the degree of vascularity and a'dematous infiltration of these parts, the amount of free fluid contained within the tympanum, the presence of an excessive quantity of air in the middle ear, and many other less im})ortant changes in the condition of nutri- tion of these parts. The A'alue of inspection may be greatly enhanced, in many cases, by the employment of certain collateral procedures, such as inflation of the middle ear by either Valsah^a’s or Politzer’s method, the inclination of the patient’s head either hackward or forward, the careful ma- nipulation qr exploration of the parts with a slender probe or curette, and the exhaustion of the air in the external auditory canal. This latter proce- dure is carried out by means of what is known as Siegle’s pneumatic specu- lum. This instrument consists of a central cylindrical chamber, of either metal or hard rubber, to Avhich is attached a flexible rubber tube about a foot in length. To one end of the chamber, which is a little over three cen-