42 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. of the scalp which had closed, and in one case of compound fracture where the external trephine-wound had cicatrized, a similar collection of -fluid sub- secpiently occurred. These cases are additional to the 19 already mentioned. There can be no cpiestion as to the nature of the fluid, which is most clearly cerebro-spinal; and in three cases a communication with the lateral ventricle has been detected.^ Where the original injury is not compound, traumatic cephalhydrocele occurs only in the young, 18 cases having been in patients under three years of age, while in one case only (Conner) was the patient 12J years old. This is explicable, according to I)r. Conner, in part at least, by the yielding character of the skull-hones in the very young, admitting of great depression and Assuring of the vault, without associated wound of the scalp. Symj)toms.—Traumatic cephalhydrocele may appear at once after the injury, or not until the expiration of four months, and a positive diagnosis is often impossible without a withdrawal and examination of the contents of the swelling. A typical case presents a soft, compressible tumor, covered l)y normally colored, distended integuments, so thin, perhaps, as to he translu- cent. In more than one-half of the cases, i)ulsation was apparently not observed. When this symptom is present, with those already described; when pres- sure diminishes the bulk, with or without evidences of cerebral irritation; when the tension of the swelling is increased by crying or holding the breath; and when the condition noted has followed a simple fracture of the vault, the diagnosis is clear. When, however, there is neither pulsation, translu- cency, nor evidence of fracture, if appearing early, the condition will proba- bly be mistaken for a lirematoma, or, when coming on long after the injury, for a deep-seated abscess. Under such circumstances an examination of the fluid can alone determine the nature of the swelling, and an exploratory aspi- ration is therefore indicated in doulitful cases. Prognosis.—The mortality of traumatic cephalhydrocele depending upon simple fracture. Dr. Conner shows to have been 50 per cent., death in fatal cases having resulted from encephalitis; while when the disease has followed compound fracture, one-third of the patients have died, from cerebral ab- scess. Recovery, when it does ensue, is followed, in many cases, by a morbid mental state, irritability of temper, etc. Though complete consoli- dation of the fracture, with consequent abolition of the communication between the intracranial and extracranial cavities, may occur, it is, according to Dr. Conner, very unlikely to take place in any case in which the opening has been large and the subaponeurotic accumulation great. Treatment.—Uothing beyond aspiration or tapping with a fine trocar is admissible, and this only when symptoms of intracranial pressure, such as squinting, pain, or “ decided symptoms of distension of the nasal or orbital lymph spaces,” are noted. The sac should not he completely emptied, lest cerebral irritation result, as actually occurred in one of Dr. Conner’s cases, when pain in the forehead and side of the head conqielled him to discontinue the operation. ^Moderate—but only moderate—pressure may, perhaps, lessen the rapidity and extent of the distension. The following conclusions are drawn by Dr. Conner, as the result of his researches and experience. 1. Simple fracture of the vault of the skull may give rise to a collection under the scalp of the cerebro-spinal fluid; coming, it may be, only from an opened ventricular cavity. 2. Such traumatic cephalhydrocele may be developed quickly, or only after the lapse of a number of days or even weeks. ' Guy’s Hosp. Reports, 3d series, vol. xxv. p. 91. Archiv f. kliu. Chir., Bd. iii. IS. 398 ; Jahr- buch f. Kinderheilkuude, Bd. xviii. S. 367. (Conner.)