INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. GOO Myo-Sclerosis. {Congenital Induration or Tumor of the Sterno-Mastoid.)— As to rnyo-sderosis., it appears a few days, or at most weeks, after birth, and appears to lie due to inflammatory exudation. Part only of the muscle may be involved, or the whole of its extent may become bal’d like bone, and swelled so as to present a very noticeable condition. It is always unilateral, and lias its seat in the sheath of the muscle. The skin is nOt involved, and pain may be occasioned when the muscle is compressed or put in action. In the last case which fell under my observation, all movement of the head appeared to produce much uneasiness. Xo explanation cpiite adequate to account for this curious affection has yet been found. Strains during de- livery, or the pressure of the forceps, may in some instances account for it; hut it has also been observed in cases in which the child has been born without any difficulty whatever. Xo hereditary or constitutional state has been so commonly associated with this affection as to establish the existence of any connection with it. The spontaneous disappearance of this condition after some months—from two to six on an average—and the restoration of the muscle to its normal state, may be expected with confidence; if any interfer- ence were thought of, it would probably take the form of friction, or possibly gentle counter-irritation—but these measures are really unnecessary. Lympii-angeiojia is a name given to a rare tumor formed of capillar}' lym- phatic vessels, which has been said to occur in the neck and to attain a con- siderable size. Xothing is known of its etiology or clinical characters that is reliable or worthy of remark. Solid growths of the neck, especially glandular tumors, occasionally derive a more or less distinct pulsation from contact with, or adhesion to, the carotid artery. If the tumor surround the artery, as it has been found to do, then the deception is complete, as the pulsation appears excentric and expansive. It will be chiefly by careful inquiry into the clinical history of the case, by noting its progress, the consistency and outline of the tumor, the possibility or not of pushing it aside and so arresting the pulsation, and at the same time of defining the outline of the growth and the position of the artery below, and finally by observing the probable existence of other similar tumors when the disease is glandular, that the diagnosis is arrived at. As to the treatment of these various tumors, it will be best given in the order in which they have been spoken of. Treatment of Cervical Tumors.—Chronic adenitis will demand, in the first place, the correction of the cause, constitutional or local, on which it depends, if that can be found, and is capable of being dealt with. In many cases the digestion is deranged and the system lowered. The assimilating organs will require careful attention, and their vigor must be maintained or improved; then iron, iodine, phosphorus, and cod-liver oil may be given in some of the many combinations which have of late years so much simplified the adminis- tration and increased the usefulness of these remedies. The hygienic surround- ings of tlie patient—his dress and exercise, his food and air supply, the action of his skin, etc.—will profitably engage the surgeon’s attention and super- vision. Sea-air has a well-established reputation in these cases, especially when the scrofulous diathesis is present. If tliere is any suspicion of syphilis, that will supply an important hint to guide the treatment. If inflammation should arise in the glands, fomentations, and it may be one or two leeches applied close to the affected part, will be serviceable, but cold is not to he commended. Counter-irritation by colorless iodine, or by a lotion containing iodine with iodide of potassium and a little spirit, or by the various ointments