INJURIES ANI) DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. ‘.*■22 death, whicli happened in a week. After death the intestines were found much dis- tended, the gall-bladder (juite empty, and a large (quantity of bile extravasated. Sabatier’s* case was very similar to Dr. Stewart’s;— The patient died on the third day, a few hours after a blackish-green, odorless fluid, supposed to be pure bile, had been drawn off through a canula, introduced into the right iliac region. On opening the body, the bowels were found prodigiously distended, and the gall-bladder shrivelled and almost empty ; in its fundus was a wound about a line and a half long, corresponding to a similar wound in the peritoneum. The instrument had penetrated between the third and fourtli false ribs, and had glided from above, downwards and forwards between the cartilages of the ribs, until it had reached the fundus of tlie gall-bladder. Waton^ gives a fatal case from puncture of the cyst by a bayonet; and Sir Astley Cooper gives another, in which the bayonet entered just below the margin of the ribs, on the right side ; the wounded man fainted and fell, ami (ju recovering consciousness experienced agonizing pain in his abdomen, which became extremely tense and tender, and he died in thirteen hours. Tlie gall-bhidder was found to have been penetrated, and bile was extravasated into the abdomen ; and wherever it had rested the peritoneum was highly inflamed. Wounds of the hepatic, or cystic, or common duct, would doubtless be attended with the same sym})toms as wounds of tlie gall-bladder, but the}' must be extremely rare. I do not know of any case on record of penetrating wound of the duets, except from gunshot. In a case of gunshot perfora- tion of the right lobe of the liver, with division of a branch of the hepatic duct,^ bile was discharged at intervals from the wound, and the man died of general peritonitis, Avith adhesions, on the forty-fourth day. In cases in Avhich the gall-bladder has been wounded by gunshot, the liver has been injured too. In one instance* the ball passed through the cartilage of the idnth rib, the ipiadrate lobe of the liver, the gall-bladder, ascending- colon, and right kidney, a)id made its exit near the twelfth dorsal vertebra; the shock was not severe, but in a few hours there were great pain and ten- sion of the abdomen, and death occurred in tifteen hours from the time of the injury. The peritoneum was found tilled Avith blood, and intense ])eri- tonitis had already been established. In tAVo other cases,® in Avhich both liver and gall-bladdei- Avere injured, the patients lived tive and eight Aveeks respectively. In both there was discharge of bile from the Avound ; in one there Avas jaundice of the skin and conjunctiva, and in the other severe diar- rha-a existed for the Avhole live Aveeks of life. This last symptom is note- worthy, as obstinate constipation is mentioned by I’oland and others as a symptom of injured gall-bladder. Prognosis.—The only knoAvn instance of recovery after gunshot Avound of the gall-bla(hler, is tlie ease recorded by I’arroisse,® as having occuri-ed to j\I. Ilnttier. It Avas that of a military man, Avho received a shot-Avound in the internal and latend }iart of the right hy])ochondrium, and Avho died tAvo years suhsequently of chest-disease, Avhen a ball Avas found in the gall-bladder, on which, hoAvever, there Avas no trace of a cicatrix. Treatment.—These injuries must be treated like other jienetrating Avounds of the abdomen Avith lesion of the viscera. There are reasonable grounds for thinking that in AVounds, as in ruptures, of the gall-bladder, it is probably ’ Me<leciiie Opeiatoiro, tome i. p. 4J. Paris, 179li. * Journal de Mod. Milit., tome vii. p. 5.A(i. ^ Med. and Surg. History of tlie AVar of the Rebellion, Part Second, Surgical Volume, ji. USD. Ibid., ]). ® Iliid., pp. I3(i, 137. Opuscules lie (diirurgie, p. 2r)4. I80l!.