ACUTE LARYNGITIS. 693 with great tumefaction require the surgical treatment detailed under (edema of the larynx (page 653). Other Forms of Laryngitis.—Submucous laryngitis, more frequently regional than ditfuse, is recognized by its greater tumefaction and by the proportional severity of its local and constitutional symptoms. It requires active- antijddogistic treatment and regimen. Jlypoglottic submucous laryngitis is not clearly differentiable, clinically, from what has been descrilied as sub- glottic (Dedema of the larynx (p. 648). Continuance of tlic tumefaction long after tracheotomy, is presunqitive evidence of cell-inliltration rather than of effusion of serum. Phlegmonous laryngitis exhibits still more urgent symptoms, and demands careful surgical supervision. Ulcerative laryngitis, and intlammation of the cartilages and of tlieir investment, are mentioned in connection Avith the affections in which they are encountered. Acute Infantile Laryngitis.—In children, acute laryngitis is much more severe than in adults. Hot only is the inflammatory process more active, but the tissues possess a special sensitiveness, direct and reflex, which induces spasm of the glottis even on what appears the slightest provo- cation. These peculiarities add to the danger of the disease dependent upon the smaller proportionate calibre of the larynx. In children, too, slight initiatory distress often escapes detection, or may be purposely concealed by an imprudent nurse who has carelessly exposed the child to draft or damp- ness. Thus the severer symptoms are apt to occur Avith a suddenness Avhich has been described as peculiar to the affection. In the majority of instances, hoAvever, strict inquiry Avill reveal the immediate precedence of a stomatitis, a coryza, a phai’yngitis, or a bronchitis. Symptoms.—It is usually at night that the severer symptoms alluded to are first manifested. These are paroxysmal cough and stridulous inspiration, Avith flushed face, accelerated pulse, difficult breathing, restless demeanor, and manifestations of pain in the throat, sometimes causing the infant to cry Avhile grasping the neck after each paroxysm. The initial paroxysm usually subsides in a feAV seconds, and sleep is immediately resumed. Similar paroxysms recur at varying intervals, often Avith increasing frequency, and continue to recur for a day or two, or for several days, as may bo. In some cases they are very slight and unimportant. In others they are severe and threatening. Suffocation occasionally results. Diagnosis.—It is rare that laryngoscopy is available in children. The appearances noted in such an examination are maiidy those mentioned in speaking of the laryngitis of adults. Paralysis of the posterior crico-ary tenoid muscles has been detected occasionally, accounting for the stridor othenvise attributed to spasm of the glottis. The apparent suddenness of the attack, the character of the subjective symptoms, and the elicitation of tenderness or pain on ]iressing the larynx externally, suffice for tlie diagnosis. Prognosis.—This is favorable in othenvise apparently healthy children. Recurrence and subsidence into chronic laryngitis are even more frecpient than in adults. 'J'rcatrnnit.—Restriction in diet, modei’ately anti})hlogistic measures, and the internal administration of antispasmodics, constitute the most effective means of treatment. Mercuric chloride is indicated, as in the adult. If the tendency to spasm be absent, cold may be a[»plied externally, but if spasm be ])resent, Avarm tuiq^entine studies are preferable. Sjjrays and intra-laryn- geal ap[ilications are inqiropcr. Inhalations of vapor of warm Avater, sim})le or im[)regnated with soothing and balsamic drugs, are often useful. The