FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-PASSAGES. 673 The smooth contour of pebbles, and the circular form of coins, whose weio’ht and shape favor their obedience to the laws of gravity, favor their removal by the ingenious plan of Padley.^ “ A strong bench having been fixed with the legs of one end on a couch, and the other on the fioor, the patient was made to sit on the upper part of it, with his knees Hexed over the end. He was then directed to lie back upon the inclined plane thus formed, and, having done so, instantly raised himself np with the sixpence in his mouth. The supine position probably favored the exit of the coin, and the readiness with which, by his own effort—the knees acting as a ful- crum—he gained the upright position, would have saved him from the danger of spasm in the event of its non-expulsion.” Krishaber, having determined laryngoscopically the position of a metal- tag, turned a child over, inserted his finger into the larynx as a guide, and removed the substance with forceps.- Should attempts at mechanical dislodgment by the methods described be deemed injudicious, or prove inefiicient, there remain the methods of removal by extraction, sometimes performed by way of the natural orifice of the air- passage, and sometimes by way of an artificial incision from the exterior. Extraction through the mouth may be })erformed under laiyngoscopic inspection, or without it. In either case, whenever practicable, the position of the substance should be ascertained laryngoscopically before its with- drawal is attempted. Forceps and blunt hooks are the instruments usually employed in these manipulations. In many instances the ingenuity of the surgeon is taxed to devise some special instrument ada})ted to the case in haffd. Tlius Brandeis^ removed a thread from the lai’ynx by means of a brush dipped in mucilage. Extraction by way of the natural passages, although successfully performed at times under very adverse conditions, seems justifiable, as a rule, oidy when the foreign body is situated above tlie vocal bands. If the foreign body be below the glottis, this procedure may be entertained onH when the substance is of such a character that it will not be apt to strike those struc- tures and injure tliein, or provoke spasm. Injury to the vocal bands may entail permanent impairment of voice. The cases in which jagged liodies, such as impacted portions of dental plates, have lieen forcibly torn from the larynx, lacerating vocal bands and other tissues^ without permanently injuring the patient, should be regarded rather as lucky instances of the tole- rance of the tissues, than as commendable evidences of the surgeon’s skill. Small, slender, and regularly shaped substances, such as fish-hooks, needles, pins, coins, and leeches,® have often been safely extracted under laryngoscoiy. Ib'ittle substances such as bones and nutshells, when not likely to be with- drawn in bulk without tearing the tissues, should be broken in the blades of forceps, and, if not spontaneously coughed out, may then be removed iu frag- ments. As one of the most recent examples of what can be done laryngo- scopically, I reproduce from Grazzi® a sketch of the laryngoscopic image (Fig. 1037) of a coin im})acted in the ventricles of the larynx, and a sketch of its appearance in the gras}> of the slide-forceps (Fig. 1038) vdth which it was withdrawn. When the impacted body is of such a contour as to prevent its ready 1 Brit. Med. .Jour., Nov. (i, 1878, p. 721. 2 Annates des Maladies de I’Oreille, etc., 10 Mai, 1878. '* American Practitioner, Nov. 1873, j>. 317. '' Oppenheimer, New York Mod. .Jour., Sept. 1879, p. 398. s R. de la Sota removed a leecli from tlie uppermost ring of tlie tracliea, with laryngeal forceps. El Anfiteatro Anatomico, No. 73, 1874 ; Archives of Laryngology, .Jan. 1883, p. 17. Bollettino ilelle Malattio dell’ Orecchio, della Gola, e del Naso, 1884, No. 4. VOL. V.—43