8(j9 SUB-PARIETAL COJJTUSION AND RUPTURE OF VISCERA. 1 Poland, Prize Essay ; see also Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d series, vol. iv. pp. 132, 133. mueli moi'e fatal, tliau simple contusion. Rarely is tlie rupture conlined to one coat, either serous or mucous, but generally the whole of the coats are lace- rated. Rapture of the stomach is more rare than rupture of the intestine, owing to its smaller extent and deeper position, when not distended, when also it is protected by the ribs and costal cartilages, and by the liver. Incomplete rup- ture of the stomach is occasionally found in persons who have died of rupture of other organs, or of other injuries. Sometimes the mucous, sometimes the peritoneal coat alone is lacerated. Poland writes;— Rupture of the stomach may be complete or incomplete, affecting one, two, or more coats at a time. Devergie remarks : “ If it be the outer coat, there are generally observed, and principally at the lesser curvature, five, twenty or thirty tears, witli clean borders, half an inch to an inch long, without separation of the edges. Similar tears are observed on the mucous coat, and it is remarkable that these often exist just at the point opposite to the external tear. Their direction is from before backwards.” lie adduces several cases in support of this view ; we, however, have only observed partial laceration of the peritoneal coat, to some extent, with considerable ecchymosis; here, however, there was rupture of the spleen as well. In another there was extensive laceration and hanging in shreds of the mucous lining of the stomach, caused by the wheel of a cart passing over the abdomen ; here, also, there was extensive laceration of the liver.^ Where all the coats are ruptured, death may ensue at once liy shock or collapse, or precisely tlie same s}uuptoms ma}'' occur as follow wounds of tlie stomach. The situation of a rupture of the stomach varies: it may be at the cardiac or pyloric extremity on either aspect, or along either curve. It may be torn quite across at the pylorus ; or the rent may be obli(|ue, or in the long- axis of the viscus. The post-mortem records of the Middlesex Hospital con- tain the details of the case of a boj-, aged nineteen years, who was killed in a railway accident; There was a linear rent in the stomacli, inches in length and extending through all its coats, about the middle of the great curvature ; almost the entire stomach, with its contents, and the left lobe of the liver, were displaced into the left pleural cavity through an opening in the left side of the diaphragm, measuring 12 inches in circumference. Rupture of the small and large intestines may he either partial or complete. Partial ruptures give rise to no special symptoms whereb}^ they ean be diag- nosed, and they are not seldom healed liy localized peritonitis. This is })roved by what is observed after death, as well as inferentially from what is seen to exist in some cases of hernia and of abdominal section, which Iiave ended in recovery, and in which considerable lacerations of the serous coat of intlanied and softened bowels, observed at the time of the operation, liave been re]mired. Cases in which bright blood has been passed by the rectum shortly after an injury over the colon or sigmoid tiexure, by persons ju-eviously healthy, sug- gest that lacerations of the mucous membrane of the large gut may occur from contusion of the abdomen, and that such lacerations are readily recover-, able. Complete rupture of the bowel may occur from veiy slight causes, especially if of the nature of a smart, ([tuck blow upon the abdomen. Com- plete rupture does not necessarily dejirive a person of the power of locomo- tion. Taylor refers to a case in which the duodenum was completel}- torn across, and yet the patient, a hoy aged thirteen, walked a mile with but little assistance, and died in thirteen hours. lie also refers to a case, in a young girl, in which the jejunum vtis ruptured by a blow with a- pebble. Other cases are on record which prove that complete ru})ture of the intestine— that is, laceration through all its coats—may he followed for several hours