INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1090 of his urinary organs, has happened to require the use of the catheter at the hands of the same medical attendant that was attending the infectious patient. After the pei’formance of any surgical operation upon the urinary organs, the patient ought to he placed in the best possible hygienic surroundings, and the same care should be used in keeping the wound clean, and in pre- venting putrefaction in and about it, as is exercised ivhen the thorax or ab- domen is opened, or a joint cut into or excised. For the rest, the treatment consists in keeping the bowels open freely, and in assisting the digestive organs in the discharge of their functions. This is well done hy a pill of three grains of extract of colocynth, half a grain of blue pill, and one and a half grains of Dover’s powder, given every night; and hy a diet consisting largely of milk, and milk and farinaceous puddings, a little fish, and good broth, beef-tea, or chicken-p?<ree. Stimulants must be avoided, or given only in such quantity and in such form as will assist digestion. The action of the skin should be assisted and stimulated by warm clothing, hy a regular and regulated temperature of the apartment occupied, which should be from 60° to 65° F., and, if necessary, by vapor baths, or by increased doses of Dover’s powder. Operations on the Kidneys. In describing the operations pei’formed upon the kidney for the relief or cure of what may now be called the “ surgical” diseases of the kidnei*, I shall consider each under the following heads: What is the operation done for ? How is it done ? And what are its dangers ? Tlieterm “surgical diseases of tlie kidnej^” is used advisedly, because there are, and from their pathological character must always be, certain affections of those organs—such as the various forms of degeneration of the secreting structure, fatty, granular, cystic, and amyloid—which are not appropriate for any surgical treatment; and there are others, such as tubercle and cancer, which are but doubtfully fitted for it. But the time has forever gone by when the words with which “ dear old Lawrence” (to quote from a letter by a physician who had been his pupil) used to begin one of his lectures, namely, “ the kidnejq gentlemen, is fortunately beyond the reach of the surgeon,” will find a single echo of assent. Besides the use of the trocar or aspirator, there are four surgical operations which are now generally recognized, and which have been frequently per- formed upon the kidney; and the lives of many patients have been saved by them, whilst comfort and relief from great suffering have been afforded by them in many other instances. The names given to these operations are sufficiently expressive of their objects and characters:— 1. Nephrotomy (pi<pp6;, kidney, rtV^io, I cut) is an incision into the kidney for purposes other than the extraction of a calculus, though it is quite possible that a calculus or calculous material may he removed after such an incision has been made. Thus on laying open an abscess of the kidney, one or more calcnli may be detected lodged within the pelvis or calyces of the organ ; or having ulcerated its way through the kidney, the stone may be found lying outside the suppurating organ. 2. Nephrolithotomy kidney, xi'eos, stone, I cut) is an incision into the secreting substance or })elvis of the kidney, with the express purpose of removing a calculus therefrom ; and that too at a date in the progress of the disease prior to the disorganization of the renal substance, or the conversion of the renal pelvis into a large abscess-cavity. This operation is of quite