928 INJURIES ANU DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. the wound is inflicted upon the posterior surface, and neither peritoneum nor the great vessels of the hilus are wounded, recovery may be looked for. Indeed, it is not too much to say that whilst the kidney may recover from very considerable lesions, mere punctures or incisions of its substance are attended with a very small amount of risk. Death from other causes has rendered it possible to prove the complete cicatrization of wounds of the kidney. In one instance, recorded by Legouest,* a kidney, Avhich had been penetrated from before backwards near its centre, had upon each face a de- pressed, solid, fibrous cicatrix, with fibrous ra}’s branching from it. Urinary fistula of long duration is not a common result, even after gunshot wounds, for it is only re})Ortcd in one out of the twenty-six recoveries during the War of the Rebellion. The duration of life in the fatal cases has varied from a day or two, to eight or nine months, or more—the early deaths having been due to shock or hemorrhage, the later ones to protracted suppuration. In many cases the fatal result has been due to peritonitis, nej^hritis, and c}^stitis. Treatnieyit.—“ "Jhie remedies consist of venesection, mild purgatives, such as manna, oil, etc., frequent emollient enemas, the warm bath generally, and local fomentations, so as to excite diaphoresis and to moderate urinary secre- tion ; with a diet of the mildest kind, but much restricted in fluids, the indulgence in whicli, even in small quantities, should be avoided. Stimulants under any form, particularly those which can at all influence the urinary organs, and blisters and diuretics, are decidedly hurtful. The dressing should be extremely light, so as to admit of free percolation of the urine; the neighboring parts should be varnished over with some unctuous substance to l)i’event excoriation, and the bedding should be protected by oil-skin. By these means a few cases that have come to my knowledge have terminated favorably.” So wrote llennen, in 1818, and with the excej)tion of venesection and frequent emollient enemas, these directions cannot be inqiroved upon. The experience of recent times has not been favorable to venesection in ab- dominal wounds, and in the case of injuries to such organs as the spleen, liver, and kidney, the shock and hemorrhage resulting from the accident often render it unwarrantable. Mild purgatives and emollient enemas are indicated if the bowels, especially the large bowel, are loaded ; but after these have been once freed of their contents, the quieter they are kept the better. It is, however, very undesirable that a mass of hardened feces should rest in the colon, and act as a source of irritation to the neighboring and injured kidney. The treatment of the wound cannot be too sinqile. It should be left open for drainage, unless it be a very large, incised wound, when one or more deep sutures may be introduced to bring a part of the edges together. Unless its course l)e very oblique, it will rarely be necessar}' to enlarge the wound for the purpose of preventing infiltration of urine, and in a case of gun- shot wound, the tissues are at first protected hy tlie eschar of the bullet track, and subsequently by a limiting Avail of inflammatory Ijuiiph. If at a later period phlegmonous inflammation or extravasation occurs, free incisions are most important; and if a circumscribed collection of urine or blood is formed, repeated as})irafions may bring ahout a cure. The importance of remoA'ing clots of blood from the hladder has been mentioned in describing the treat- ment of ruptured kidney, and it cannot be too lully emphasized. The catheter and Avarm-Avater injections should he first tried, but if these are in- sufiicient, either oAving to the (piantity of coagula or to their continual for- mation, cystotomy should be performed Avithout delay. It matters but little Avhether this be done by median or by lateral incision, as long as there is a free ■ Chirurgie il’Aniicc', 2o ed., p. 403.