126 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. connection with adjacent parts, so that they may he almost made to roll under the skin. They soon hecome more adherent, especially if inflamed at any time. The skin covering them, although at first normal, becomes thinned, pinkish, and more or less bald. And, on the other hand, progressing deeply, the cyst, if large, often comes in contact with the skull. It is now generally allowed that this form of sebaceous cyst does not affect the subjacent bone, and never causes perforation.^ The very utmost change which it may pro- duce is to form a trifling depression on the surface of the skull, and this even is denied by some. Of the etiology of these cysts, little is known. They are often distinctly hereditary, are more common in women than in men, and usually appear first in youth and early adult life. They are much more frecpient upon the hairy scalp than upon the forehead and temples, and often appear to be produced by injuries or by erysipelas of the scalp. When on the scalp they are often multiple. Prof. Gross alludes to the case of a man who had some two hun- dred of these tumors on his scalp.^ Progress and Termination.—The rate of growth is usually very slow, and generally a matter of years. It varies, however, considerably. At any period the cyst may remain stationary for an indefinite time. As a rule, these tumors do not attain a great size. The largest, however, are met with on the scalp, and usually at the posterior part of the scalp, and here they may attain enormous dimensions. On the brow they seldom, if ever, attain a large size. The skin may rupture spontaneously and give exit to the cyst, although this is more usuall}" the result of injury. At any time the cyst may suppurate. Such suppuration is usually most tedious, a sinus result- ilig that for an indefinite time discharges a thin pus mixed with the fetid contents of the cyst. Extensive ulceration may follow, and a so-called “ fungating or follicular ulcer” be produced.^ From a peculiar growth of epithelium from its exposed lining membrane, “horns” may be formed.'* Gases of entire absorption or disappearance of sebaceous cysts have been recorded. I had under my care recently a woman in whom this had occurred. The cyst was the size of a large marble. The diagnosis is easy, and may be gathered from the preceding remarks. The chief points to be looked to, in addition to those that are common to all cysts, are their immediately subcutaneous situation; their regular, smooth, round, or oval form, which may in some instances be made to change by pressure when the contents are of a soft substance that may be moulded into various shapes; the easy mobility; the dark central point; the heredi- tary origin ; the slow growth ; the healthiness of the immediately surround- ino; parts; the absence of change in them from the pulse or respiration, and of head symptoms when they are pressed.”® Treatment.—The only treatment is that by excision. As a rule the cysts on the scalp shell out very readily. Sometimes, if small, the cyst can be re- moved entire with very little dissecting. If any difliculty be experienced, the tumor may be transfixed, and the cyst then forcibly pulled out with forceps. It is essential that every portion of the cyst-wall should be removed. On no account should an attempt be made to remove a sebaceous cyst while in a state of acute inflammation. If it he inflamed, a simple puncture should be made into the cyst, a poultice applied, and further operation left until the ^ See an intesting discussion before the Surgical Society of Ireland, April 6, 1866, opened by Dr. B. Wills Richardson. 2 System of Surgery, 5th ed., vol. ii. p. 114. Philadelphia, 1877. ® See page 127. * See page 127. ® Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. i. p. 517. Art. “ Tumors,” by Sir James Paget and Mr. C. H. Moore.