ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 1009 part of an hepatic abscess is always hard and swelled, whereas a distended gall-bladder is not generally snrrounded l)y any degree of hardness or swell- ing, and fluctuation is as manifest at the circumference as at the centre. Other forms of enlargement of the gall-bladder, as from bile, mucus, gall- stones, or cancer, are usually to be distinguislied from cystic abscess by the ab- sence of febrile disturbance, and by the less acute course of the local as well as of the general symptoms. These enlargements will be referred to again hereafter. Prognosis.—Pyremia and secondary abscesses of the liver are the most serious consequences. Tdie fistula which results from the bursting of the sac will remain open an indefinite time, but may close, and sometimes quickly, if the cause of obstruction have been a calculus which has been discharged with the pus, or soon after the abscess has opened. Treatment.—Rest is most important (1) to facilitate and promote adhesion of the inflamed gall-bladder to the parietal peritoneum ; and (2) to avoid peritonitis becoming general, or even extending beyond the coats of the gall- bladder and the part of the parietes with whicli it is in contact. Any sudden or forcible movement might cause rupture of the inflamed, softened, and often fattily degenerated walls of the gall-bladder. Opium, leeches, and liot fomentations will be requisite to relieve pain. Cooling salines, and a light, nutritious diet must be given. As soon as suppuration has occurred, and the distended gall-bladder presents an abdominal swelling, the aid of the surgeon should be sought, and either an incision should be made down to the tumor, or the abscess should be opened by means of potassa fusa, introduced into the wound after incising the skin, fascia, and part of the thickness of the mus- cular parietes. Opening the gall-bladder directly by an incision, is the Ijctter practice; and in doing this it is advisable, after exposing the surface of the cyst, to empty it of its fluid contents b}^ an aspirator, before cutting through its coats. By means of two pairs of s[iring forcejis tlie gall-bladder should lie drawn up into the wound; and when flaccid, its wall should be ineised Avith scissors or a scalpel; the aspirating canula being thus liberated and I’emoved, it remains only to stitcb the edges of the divided gall-bladder to the edges of the Avound in the abdominal Avail. As these abscesses are nearly always due to biliary calculi, there is no use in simply aspirating the tumor, and thereby leaving the cause of the su[i]iuration behind, Avithout ju’oviding an exit for fresh-formed pus ; nor is there mueli hope that the fistula Avhich results from spontaneous external opening Avill give room, or be direct enough in its course, foi’ the escape of the calculi. Sucli may be the case, or the evacuation of the pent-up pus may so change the line or surround- ings of the duct as to allow of the stone passing into the boAvel, or the stone may idcerate into the duodenum or colon. But these are contingencies Avhich cannot be relied u])on, and in the mean Avliile delay may result in the rupture of the abscess into the peritoneum. An incision properly planned and perfonned, not only [irovides for the immediate evacuation of the pus, but alloAvs of the efficient drainage of the abscess-sac, and of the removal of anj^ calculi Avhich may l)e in the gall- bladder, or in the duct Avithin reach from the Avound, either at the time of the operation or sid(sequent to it. (2) Abscess in the PUiarn Ducts.—Calculi may giA^e rise to abscess in the ducts at any point at Avhich they become inpiacted, or excite inflammation. If tlie calculus docs not escape or become encysted, siq)puration and abscess Avill occur. Sometimes a calculus impacted in a duct excites an abscess in tbe adjacent liver-tissue, and'after a time the calculus may jiass from the duet into the abscess-cavity thus formed ; or inflarnmatoiw adhesions may form between tbe inflamed duct and the neighboring structures, and the calculus then pass into a circumscribed peritoneal abscess; oi' it may ulcerate through Vf)L. V.—Gd