36 INJUillES OF THE HEAD. it can be proved that tlie portion of the head struck was for distant from the discoloration, this is a valuable diagnostic sign in conjunction with distinct cerebral symptoms, either precedent or then existing. If no reliable infor- mation can he gained as to that part of the head upon which the blow was received, eechymosis of the regions mentioned can l^e of no diagnostic vahie, except—according to llewett—when a pulhness occurs in the occipital region, with discoloration of the skin a few hours after a severe injury upon this part of the head, lie states that this is the result of injury to some of the great venous sinuses and of tiltration of the blood between the fragments. I cannot hut consider this an eminently uncertain symptom when the occipital region itself has been injured. The escape of brain-substance^ b}’ the ears or nose, of course definitely settles the fact of basal fracture, hut is of rare occurrence. The diagnostic value of icatenj discharges from the ear and nose will be considered hereafter. Paralysis of the nerves emerging through the various foramina at the base of the skull, especially paralysis of the facial and auditory, has been from time immemorial considered a sign of fractured base. The secoml, eighth, and ninth pairs are hut rarely affected, wliile the first is not uncommonly injured. Involvement of many nerves, or of those of both sides, is not of much value as evidence of l)asal fracture, since the symptoms are then probably due to intracranial Idood-extravasation.^ Paralysis of the facial often does not appear immediately after the injury ; in fact, in eight out of ten cases reported by Mr. Pick, it only appeared fr’om the second to the sixth day. Owing to the connection of the facial with the spheno-}»alatine ganglion, it depends on the part of the portio dura injured, whether the uvula and soft palate will be ])aralyzed as well as the facial muscles, or not. In the fornier event, the line of fracture must traverse the internal auditory meatus, so as to injure or com- ]U’ess the nerve before it gives otf the greater petrosal nerve—that is, between the brain and the geniculate ganglion, which is situated in the first part of the aquteductus Fallopii. If the uvula and i)alate he unatlected, the line of fracture must traverse the petrous hone so as to injure the facial nerve as it ])asses in the Fallopian canal across the internal wall of the tympanum. Diagnosis of Basal Fractures.—The most important diagnostic i)oints have been referred to in considei'ing the sym})tomatology of basal fractures, hut there are some general principles which the sm’geon will do well to keep in mind Avhen dealing with a supposed injury of this kind. Experience has shown that, as a rule, basal fractures result from the appli- cation of powerful, diffrised force. Thus, in violent l)lows or falls upon the temporo-pailetal region, with marked symptoms of cerebral concussion, we have, according to Aran,^ from the mere nature of the force, presumptive evi- dence of a fracture of the middle fossa. While I do not go as far as this author, such a combination of events certainly sliould suggest the strong pos- sibility of a basal fracture to the surgeon’s mind. In direct fractures, free hemorrhage, or hemoi-rhage followed by a watery flow, with perhaps symptoms of cerebral compression from intracranial effusion of blood, is apt to occur, and paralysis of one or many of the basal nerves from injury by the vulnerating body. Then, too, an open way having been made to the site of fracture, the finger or the probe will give valuable information. * Guillemeau, Journ. de Med. 1779 ; De Gislain, Aimales de Chirurgie, t. viii., p. 229. 1843; Aran, Archives Gen. de Med., 4e ser., t. vi. p. 329 ; Lockwood, loc. cit. ^ Loc. cit.