INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 322 greater relief than does the ponltice or the hot douclie. A soft, flannel bag tilled with dried hops, and heated thoroughly before an open tire or in the oven, will he found to serve an excellent purpose in such cases. Bran, oatmeal, or coarse salt may be used in the place of the hops. A rubber-hag filled with hot water, and covered with flannel, is also a good substitute for the ho}) pillow. A still more perfect method of applying heat and moisture to the inflamed drum-memljrane, is by means of a gravity douche, provided with a pronged, hard-rubber nozzle, such as will be described hereafter. By refilling the tin reservoir (“ Clark’s douche”) or the rubber bag as often as may be required, a stream of warm water may be kept playing upon the inflamed parts as long a time as may be wished. If these simpler measures fail, we may, according to the age, sex, and strength of the patient, apply from one to four leeches either immediately behind, or immediately in front of, the auricle, as close as ]_tossible to the tragus. As a rule, however, it will be found that the cases in which warm applications and rest in bed fail to alleviate the pain, are characterized either by a bulging condition of the posterior half of the drum-membrane, or by an intense inflammation of all the soft parts bordering upon the upper part of the membrane, without any recognizable bulging. The pain is due to the pressure of accumulated secretions upon an inflamed, and therefore highly sensitive, mucous membrane, and the most rational and conservative pro- cedure is to remove the pressure by establishing an artificial opening in the membrana tympani, through which the secretions may find an easy escape. I will quote here briefly from my work on ear diseases, already referred to, all that I think it necessary to say with regard to this operation; If performed with a reasonable degree of care by a physician who knows something about the ana- tomy of the middle ear, it may be considered as a perfectly safe operation. There is but one real danger, and that is this: the operator may, with the point of his knife, injure the delicate attachments of the anvil, or drive the stirrup into the vestibule with such force as to rupture the annular ligament, or injure some of the delicate labyrinthine structures. However, the attachments of the stirrup to the oval window are quite strong, and this ossicle can unques- tionably be handled rather roughly without serious injury being caused to the organ of hearing. The attachments of the hammer are also very power- ful. On the other hand, those of the anvil are very feeble. This ossicle is, as it were, suspended between the hammer and the posterior wall of the tympanum. The bands which attach it to the hammer are extremely deli- cate. Fi’om these the anvil derives little or no stability; but from the peculiar interlocking of the articular surfaces it derives probably its chief strength. At best, however, this ossicle possesses very feeble supports, and may easily be disconnected from the hammer by the manipulations of an ignorant or careless operator. In incising the membrana tympani, therefore, we should so guide the end of the slender, spear-pointed knife that it shall not strike the end of the long process of the anvil, or the attached head of the stirnqj. All these parts which are to be avoided, occupy, fortunately, a comparatively small portion of the urea within which the knife can be used. This dangerous region occupies about half (the upper half) of the posterior superior quadrant. Hence we may, without the slightest fear of injuring the ossicles, begin our incision a little above the dividing-line, between the upper and lower posterior quadrants, and midway between the handle of the hammer and the periphery of the membrane, and carry it down nearly to the lower limit of the latter. The membrana tympani secundaria need give no anxiety, as it lies safely concealed in its niche of bone, quite out of reach ,of any straight instrument tliat may be introduced through the outer meatus. Furthermore, if the point of the blade be carried too far imvard, the only result will be an incised