24 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. service. Such practice is illogical and opposed to the results of experience. When such cases prove fatal from trephining, they do so from concomitant lesions, not from the operation, if properly performed. 1 shall not enter upon the vexed question, wliether or not depressed bone produces cerebral compression, as I do not found my advice upon the exist- ence of such symptoms. Besides, experience shows that in many a case in which the jiatient has been thought to be suffering from compression by de- pressed bone, the symptoms have really been due to effused blood, which has been successfully removed. Any tlieoretical views which tend, therefore, to cast doubt upon the possibility of conqiression resulting from displaced bone (an occurrence which, however rare, has unquestionably been met with),' are mischievous, as apt to restrain the elevation of deju’essed ])ortions of the skull beneath which effused blood or ]»us may lie. Thei’e is one important occa- sional exception to this rule. When a depressed fracture takes place in the adult over the I’egion of the frontal sinuses, there may oftentimes be an ex- tensive indriving of bone, with no injury to the brain. If, after careful examination, there are good grounds for believing that the inner table of the skull is uninjured, it is advisable to wait, remembering that upon the first symptoms of meningeal irritation an exploratory operation must be performed, and the fragments elevated should any be found depressed. The surgeon should not await compression-symptoms as an indication for operation in fractures of the vault, as then it often will he too late. Un- doubtedly many patients recover in whom the bone is not elevated,^ but in too many ei)ileps3q insanity, chronic cerebral irritation, etc., render life a burden, and operations are then required which often prove useless. Modern investigation and experience show most clearly the danger of leaving de- pressed fragments of the skull in situ. Operations for epilepsy show at times that,ln the effort to bridge across the irregular fragments, and from the constant irritation due to the cerebral pulsation, driving the dura mater ' See Sir Astley Cooper’s account of Mr. Cline’s famous case. (Op. cit., p. 138.) Other cases, quite as conclusive but not as striking, could be cited. 2 Hennen relates a case “ where the man survived thirteen years, with no other inconvenience than occasional determination of blood to the head on hard drinking,” and yet there was “a funnel-like depression,” one and a half inches deep, “in the vertex.” (Op. cit., under Case XXXIX.) Fig. 827. Fig. 828. Fracture of skull with shattering of internal table. (From a specimen in the Miitter Museum.)