9G6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE ABDOMEN. extravasation of urine from a ruptured urethra complicated Avith fracture of tlie left ramus of the pubis. Perineal tistulae formed, and others opened in the thig’hs, right groin, and above the pubes. All of them discharged urine, nearly the whole of which fluid escaped by the fistulse for more than a j’ear, and until Mr. Cusack, under Avhose care the patient was, re-established the normal urethra by dividing a fold of false membrane Avhich had been ob- structing the calial opposite to the seat of fracture. Sir Benjamin Brodie found, after death, “ a large abscess in front of the pubis, extending half Avay towards the navel; another among the adductor muscles of the left thigh ; and a third among the muscles of the upper part of the right thigh, as far outwards as the foramen ovale of the ischium, the periosteum having been destroyed and the bone itself rendered carious; and all these abscesses could be traced into an abscess in the perineum, communicating with the urethra, behind a stricture, by a small orifice.” In an intei’esting inaugural dissertation on Urinary Fistulie, by J. Antonins Jagielski, a case is related of a farm laborer, who, in June, 1819, was gored by a bull, the horn of which jiassed through the middle of the right thigh, towards the perineum and scrotum, blood trickling from the urethra; a stricture of the urethra followed, and immense urinary listulse resulted, and opened in the upper part of the thigh on its inner and posterior aspects, in the scrotum, and in the ischial regions; urine had also burrowed amid the cellular tissue of the pelvis and led to a large stinking abscess, as well as to contraction of the tissue around the rectum, and such great destruction of it as to expose the three inferior sacral nerves. Matter pent up behind the deep perineal fascia is likely to burrow in the pelvic cellular tissue, and, dissecting its Avay by the side of the bladder, to open into the vagina, rectum, or some other part of the bowel; and thus to establish a complete uretero-rectal, or uretero-vaginal, or vesieo-rectal, or vesico-vaginal fistula. Treatment.—Uo general rules can be laid down, for enough has been said to show that the cause of the fistula must be ascertained, and the treatment directed accordingly. One thing will always be requisite, viz., to establish a free, and, if possible, natural channel for the proper escape of urine. Thus if stricture exists, it must be treated; if a foreign body is in the bladder, it must be taken away. All causes of inflammation around the bladder must be removed, and if cxtraA^asation have occurred, the prompt surgical treat- ment demanded for that emergency, and for the cause Avhich has given rise to it, must be at once brought into effect. In most cases the condition is very ])itiable, and a cure is consequently demanded. Every act of micturition is attended with the escape of urine througli the fistulous cliannel. When this channel is ivide and direct, pre- caution can be taken to keep the clothes dry and clean; but when it is ob- lique or tortuous, the urine dribbles away long after the act of micturition is over, there is an ammoniacal odor always present, the clothes cannot l)e kept dry noi' the skin free from excoriation, and the state of the patient is one of loathing and disgust. If, under these circumstances, relief is not ob- tained, the health of the patient fails gradually, and death ensues. Urachal Abscess and Fistula. Most Avriters on the development of the bladder have referred to the occa- sional patency of the urachus at the time of and after birth, and to the discharge of urine from its umbilical extremity, Avhich, under that condition, is likely to take place. Very frequently, perhaps generally, the urachus at