395 DISEASES OF TUE NASAL PASSAGES. Xasal Diphtheria.—It is still an open rpiestion whether diphtheria of the nasal mucous membrane is ever a primary disease. Schuller' believes that it may be, but the case olfered in support of his views is at best but a doubtful one; Kohts“ asserts that it sometimes is, and that its local manifestations may either remain limited to the nasal passages, or, originating there, may spread thence into the upper pharynx, pharynx, and larynx. The converse is, beyond question, the commoner occurrence, and the local membranous evidences of the affection must extend from below upwards, by a process of gradual progres- sion, before they are found witliin the nasal passages. Aside from the consti- tutional treatment of the disease, no local measures are usually employed in the case of nasal involvement, aside from injections or sprays of alkaline and disinfectant solutions. The relief that these give to the obstruction in nasal respiration, caused by accumulated secretion and membrane, and the conse- quent comfort of the patient, certainly indicate tlieir use in all cases, aside from any direct influence that they may have upon the progress of the disease. Pseudo-iiiemhraiies in the Nasal Passages.—I have on several occasions been called upon to remove tough membranous exudations from tlie nasal passages, where they were giving rise to more or less obstruction of the air current, and to the symptoms of a chronic coryza. These cases have occurred in young patients, usually small children, free beyond all question from diphtheritic taint. The affection is purely a local one, and the membranoid mass is the result of a collection of tough, inspissated mucus, holding entangled epithelial debris. The masses are usually moulded about and over the inferior turbinated bones, to which the}^ cling tightly, and the special point of interest in these cases lies in their differentiation from the somewhat similar-looking produc- tions of diphtheria in the same locality. The absence of all constitutional disturbance, and of all local, acute inflammatory a}ipearances in either nose or throat, readily serves to stamp their true character. Submucous Inflammation and Abscess of the JSTasal Cavity.—True pldeg- monous inflammation of the nose can hardly exist, owing to the peculiar anato- mical arrangement of its structures. Fraenkel has, however, called attention to a form of acute inflammation which, it is true, occurs but rarely, but which resemldes a phlegmonous inflammation closely in its character, involves the deeper structures and periosteum, and gives rise to all the results of phlegmon. It is seen especially after direct in juries to the nose, but may arise without known or appreciable cause. Its locality may vary. Usually one nasal passage alone is affected, and this at some point other than the septum. As soon as an abscess forms it should be opened.^ Pustules of acne and small furuncles are not intmiuently developed just within the openings of the nostrils, and lead to the formation of small, cir- cumscribed abscesses, attended with much pain and the local evidences of acute inflammation. An inflamed hair-bulb is a common starting-]ioint for the development of furuncle. Once incised Avith a small tenotomy-knife, these abscesses quickly disappear. Cases of profuse avatery discharge from one or both nostrils, without appreciable local cause, are reported by Paget,' Althaus,® Lingard,® Tillaux,'' and Spiers;* and others, in Avliich the same conrlition was probably dependent ' Archiv fiir Kindertieilk. N. F. P>ft. iv. .lalirg. 1871, S. 331. ^ Gerliardt, llaiidbur.h der KiiiderkraiiklieitBii, Bd. iii. 2te Halite, S. 18. * See also under Abscess of tlie Nasal Septuui. ■' Lancet, vol. ii. p. 773. 1878. ® Brit. Med. .Journal, Dec. 7, 1878. s Ibid., Dec. 21, 1878. ’ 'J’raite d’Anatoniie Topograpbique, p. 5G. Baris, 1877. * Lancet, March .7, 1881.