418 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. Tumors of the ^s'ose. External Tumors.—Tumors loeated externally upon the nasal organ, are of very rare occurrence, and among them the sebaceous growth hardly deserves the name of tumor. It is usually small, painless, and of slow growth, and its soft, compressible consistence serves to readily distinguish it from other varieties of neoplasm. Once extirpated, it does not recur. The fibroid tumor generally springs from the surface of the fibro-cartilage of the nose lying immediately below the perichondrium, and exhibits the same structure as similar growths in other parts of the body. (Gross.) An important fact in connection with it is its tendency to recurrence after removal. Lfioniatous tumors, the only other variety of growth met with externally, consist of an accumulation of the subcutaneous adipose tissue, usually associated with marked hypertrophy of the overlying integument, and increased vascularity with distension of the sebaceous crypts. Lipoma occurs in elderly subjects, and is easily recogni- zable by its lobulated appearance, pendulous character, and soft consistency. The remedy for the disease lies in its excision, care being taken to preserve the nasal cartilages intact. Tumors of the Nasal Passages.—Tumors of varied pathological nature affect the nasal passages, ai'ising either primarily within them, or involving them secondarily by a process of gradual extension from the neighboring and communicating sinuses and cavities. The commonest form is unques- tionably the mucous or gelatinoid polypus, while the more serious, such as the fibrous or naso-pharyngeal p>olypus, the osseous or cartilaginous growths, as well as the semi-malignant sarcoma and malignant carcinoma, are fortu- nately rare. Other forms of tumor are but infrequently seen, and need but passing consideration ; they are the adenoma, papilloma, neuroma, and finally cystic growths. General Symptoms.—The earliest symptoms, due to the presence of any tumor within the nasal passage, being in all cases nearly identical—certainly in the incipient stages of its formation—and, as Mackenzie remarks, being neither distinctive with respect to the different classes of growth, nor, in fact, distinguishable subjectively from those of chronic rhinitis, it may be well to consider them here collectively, laying special stress upon those of a later date which in certain forms of neoplasm have a diagnostic significance. Hypersecretion, sensation of fulness, and constant desire to clear the nose and throat, with perhaps frontal headache and some nasal obstruction to respira- tion—in short, the symptoms of a chronic coryza—are the first to attract the patient’s attention, and become so gradually pronounced that the surgeon’s attention is rarely called to the affection in this stage. As the tumor devel- ops, however, all the symptoms and attendant discomfort, due mainly to obstruction of one or both nasal passages, are decided. The patient then breathes partially, perhaps wholly, through the open mouth, the senses of taste and smell become blunted, and the voice acquires the characteristic, nasal intonation. The direction of the growth of the tumor determines the development of further conditions; if it be backwards, it presses upon the pharyngeal orifice of the Eustachian tube, and impairment of hearing fol- lows ; if upwards and forwards, it presses upon the outlet of the nasal duct, and lachrymal abscess, epiphora, or mucocele of the lachrymal sac are not unusual results; if backwards and downwards, it encroaches upon the soft palate, and limits its movements in deglutition ; and finally, by blocking .up . the outlet of the antrum of Highmore, it may induce the development there of a cystic or other growth. Mucous polypi being often pedunculated, give rise