410 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES, posterior direction, sometimes with a sharp exterior edge, at other times more flattened ; upon their size depends the amount of nasal obstruction that they cause, and their true nature may usually be at once appreciated from tlieir density and their locationd The cartilaginous outgrowths or thicken- ings, on the other hand, occur anteriorly in the nasal fossse, and, for the most part, are attached by broad bases to the septum and adjoining parts of the floor of the nose. Their removal, if indicated, is readilj' accomplished. I have been in the habit of slicing them otf, as it were, from the septum, by means of a long, strong, probe-pointed knife ; the incision is easily made ; the removal, if the knife is kept parallel to the septum, is thorough, and the result gootl; the wound of the mucous membrane heals over kindly. When an exostosis or spiculum of bone projects from the side of the vomer, it must be of necessity removed by means of a small cliisel, the patient being ames- tlietized, oi’ by the small, double gouge-forceps devised by Weir.^ Goodwillie^ recommends for the same purpose, the use of the surgical or dental engine, drilling away the bony mass by the revolving multiple-knife inclosed within a sheath. Cohen has reported a case of exostosis from the palatine ridge of the superior maxilla and vomer, occluding the right nostril, which he removed with the burr of the dental engine^, and Pomeroy® gives a simi- lar instance. Of the other forms of tumor, joapillonia is, perhaps, the most frequently encountered.® The growths generally occur just above the oriflce of the nostrils, and spring from the mucous membrane of the septum at this point. In five instances that I have met with, the tumors have been small, and alwaj'S unilateral, and have occurred in young persons, giving rise to some obstruction of the nasal passage, but notably to recurrent attacks' of epistaxis. In a sixth case, recently seen, the tumor grew from the anterior extremity of the right inferior turbinated bone; it is the only one that I have ever seen in this locality. The general resemblance of these tumors to papillomata of the mucous membrane of other parts, i-enders their recognition easy, and as they may be easily and effectually removed by the knife, snare, or scissors, their occm’rence is a matter of more interest than importance. Gelatinous polypi^ true myxomata, are occasionally encountered springing from the side of the septum. Cohen is authority for the statement that cystomata sometimes occur in the same situation. The treatment consists in evacuation of the colloid contents of the sac, by incision, and in local medication of its walls so as to excite adhe- sive inflammation. Van Vadja^ has seen a case of sarcoma of the nasal sep- tum in a male syphilitic subject, and Mason® one of myeloid tumor. Congenital occlusion of the posterior nares is a rare affection. Its sub- jects are, as a rule, very young children, and the obstruction to nasal respira- tion makes itself manifest soon after birth, upon attempts being made to suckle the infant. The attendant symptoms—difficult respiration, frequent suffocative attacks, and mucous discharge—persist, should the child survive, into later years. Several cases are reported in medical literature. In Em- mert’s® patient, a boy of seven, the nose was well formed, but the choansB were closed by a bony wall. He had never breathed through the nose, and had been nourished as an infant only with the greatest difficulty. Fraenkefi® demon- 1 See Michel, Gaz. Hebdom., 1873. 2 Medical Record, March 13, 1880. ® New York Medical Gazette, July 31, 1880. Medical and Surgical Reporter, July 13, 1878. ® Medical Record, June 11, 1881. ® See F6re, Bull. Soc. Anat. de Paris, tome iv. p. 587. 1880; Maiocchi, Gaz. Med. di Roma, t. iv. p. 265. 1878 ; Delavan, Archives of Laryngology, vol. iii. No. 2. ’’ Wien. med. Presse, 18 Marz, 1877. ® Lancet, April 29, 1876. ® Lehrbuch der Chirurgie, Bd. ii. S. 355. Stuttgart, 1853. “ Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia, vol. iv. p. 113.