118 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. luscnm fibrosum, which are, however, as a rule, more of a fihro-cellular structure, and are not infrequent on the scalp. Sir Prescott llewett* and Professor Gross^ both describe cases of large tibrous tumors of the scalp, in each instance about the size of an orange. In Hewett’s case, the mass was behind the ear, and hung down by a thick pedicle. In the other case the tumor was on the vertex. In both instances the fundus of the mass had ulcerated. Such tumors as these are readily removed if they occasion any ti’ouble. Pachydermatocele ; Elephantiasis of the Scaly) ; Hypiodrophy of the Scalp.— A remarkable condition of the scalp has been described by different authors under one or other of these titles.^ There is now no doubt, however, that these terms have all been applied to one and the same disease. The dis- ease consists in a remarkable overgrowth of the scalp tissues at some one spot. The mass thus formed hangs down as a huge, pendulous, bag-like tumor, often lobulated and thrown into transverse folds or creases, doughy and flabby to the feel, quite painless, and covered by normal skin. Dr. Mott, Avho gives an excellent account of these tumors, says tliat they are ahvays con- genitak and begin in a mole. Subsequent authors have, however, not con- lirmed this statement.^ These masses have occurred most frequently about the age of puberty and in young adults. In females they are more common about the occiput;® in males about the temporal or parietal region. Tiiey grow slowly, and are innocent, causing trouble only by tbeir bulk, Avliich may be considerable. AVlien they hang down from the temple, they close in the eye and drag down the mouth. In a case recorded by Sir E. Home, tlie tumor was larger than the patient’s head.® With regard to treatment, Thi- rioifl obtained a cure by the. use of continued pressure and iodine applica- tions ; but no doubt the bulk of such cases must be treated by removal, if treated at all. One case so operated on was fatal from hemonliage,® and in one of Dr. Mott’s cases® the mass recurred twice, a circumstance explained by its imperfect removal in the first instance. Each operation must be planned to meet the pai’ticular case. If great bleeding be anticipated, tlie common carotid may be tied as a preliminary measure. Osteoma.—Virchow'® records two cases of osteoma of the scalp, in patients respectively forty-eight and sixty-seven years of age. They had existed for a long time. These cases, however, Avere only examined clinically, and may be fairly open to question as to their real nature. Papillomata of the scalp are extremely rare. They are probably ahvays congenital, and commence from a minute Avart or mole. They are most common about the frontal region, and present precisely the ordinaiy aspect of papillomata elscAvliere. In a AA'oman aged thirty-five, under my care at the London Hospital, there Avas a j:)apillonia, measuring 3^ inches by 3 inches, over the coronal suture just to the right of the middle line. It had groAvn from a minute mole. It Avas very prominent, slightly pedunculated, and gave issue to a thin discharge, having the peculiarly offensive odor of ' Medical Times and Gazette, vol. i. jn 315. 1862. 2 System of Surgery, otli ed., vol. ii. p. 115. 3 For some collected cases, see Bruns, Ilandb. der prakt. Cliirurgie, Bd. i. S. 91 ; also a paper by Dr. Valentine Mott (Med.-Cbir. Trans., vol. xxxvii. p. 154), including excellent drawings of the disease, and records of five cases—two being situate on the scalp. An excellent case will also be found in the Clinical Society’s Transactions, Nov. 1876, reported by Mr. Walsham. •* See, however. Gross, op. cit. ^ Follin et Duplay, Traite de Path. Ext., tome iii. p. 569. 1869. ® See drawing in Med. Times and Gazette, vol. i. p. 315. 1862. ’’ Revue Med.-Chir., tome ii. p. 100. 1852. ® Case quoted by Erichsen. Science and Art of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 384. 1872. ® Loc. cit., p. 156. Die krankhaften Geschwulste, Bd. ii. S. 65. 1864.