345 DISEASES OF THE MASTOID PROCESS. parallel with the auditory canal. The forefinger of the hand which guides the drill should rest firmly against the hone. If this precaution he taken, there will not be the slightest danger of our suddenly plunging the sharp point of the drill into parts which might thereby receive serious damage. The instrument should he constructed in such a manner that its cutting edges shall be turned in opposite directions. The accompanying figure shows this feature of the instrument very clearlju An operator whose fingers are un- usually short, might perhaps find the drills a little too long ; in which case he Fig. 904. would find it necessary to liave them shortened. When the drill has pene- trated into the bone to an appreciable distance, it should be withdrawn, and the exact depth of the opening should be ascertained. After a few more turns of the instrument have been made, the depth should be measured a second time. The antrum should be reacheil at a depth not exceeding three- fifths of an inch. My rule is, never to force the instrument beyond a dejdh of twenty millimetres, or three-(piarters of an inch. Schwartze, of Halle, in Germany, who has probably had more experience in this class of cases than any other surgeon living, places the extreme limit at twenty-five milli- metres. When the end of the drill reaches the pneumatic cells, we must manipulate it more carefully, as our object is to establish a cylindrical out- let, and not to break down the cell walls throughout a large area. I always l)egin the operation with the larger drill, and then employ the smaller one, when I find that I am in danger of using too great leverage force. In this connection I should state that it has been ascertained by experience that, in very many cases, it is suflicient to carry the drill simply far enough inward to reach one or more of the pneumatic cells. I have repeatedly stopped short of the antrum, in o})erating upon the mastoid hone, and in all these cases I have obtained as perfect results as I have in those in which the 0}»ening was made to terminate directly in that cavity. Such a favorable issue is to be attributed, in some cases, to the fact that in estal)lishing a communication between the outer air and some of the pneumatic cells, we have in reality established a communication—somewhat imlirect, it is true—ivith the antrum itself. In other cases, the benefit derived from this incom])lete operation can oidy be explained on the assumption that the establishment of a new centre of inflammation, in close proximity to that wliich has hitherto been tlic real centre of disease, produces a strongly derivative efiect, and so checks the progress of the fundamental malady. Whether these speculations about the