INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 808 the essential object of treatment. In contusions of the cliest, too, hemoiThage is, as has been already noted, foremost in impoidance, but the conditions of those injuries place it more beyond the reach of surgical interference, while its external appearance is comparatively rare. Its total amount is apt to be either extreme, leading to an immediately fatal result, or else comparatively unimportant. In penetrating wounds, while the same extremes exist, the intermediate degrees are innumei’able. In addition, the symptoms are more evident, and the source, in some cases at least, sudiciently exjiosed for surgical treatment. When the liericardiu'iti and heart oi- the great vessels are the parts involved by a penetrating wound, death is the immediate result in the vast majority of instances. Death may occur in two ways. In the first, a puncture or similar small wound, piei'cing the pericardium, opens the heart or a great vessel— aorta, pulmonary artery oi’ vein, (,)r vena cava^—and the blood, issuing, fills fli6 pericardium, compresses the heart, and kills before the total amount of blood lost is by its (j[uantity sufficient to cause death. A wound in this way may be fatal without opening the heart-cavities or greater vessels, for, striking the coronary artery of the heart only, the fatal result has been brought about in the same way, but in a slightly longer time, a couple of hours; among the records of wounds of this class, inflicted by fine and shar}» instruments, we read of lives prolonged for days, for weeks, even for years—but these are among the curiosities of medical literature, not within the category of eases which belong to practical surgery. The knowledge of their having occurred is, however, necessary for the surgeon, in order that he may not commit an error of over-statement in asserting that all wounds of the heait or great vessels must necessarily be fatal. The second mode of death in these injuries is by the sudden and free How of blood into the pleural cavities or medias- tinum; in such cases death takes place at once, or within a few minutes. Passing from these cases, which are beyond the reach of surgical art, we come to the hemorrhages of more limited and controllable character, where the blood flows from vessels wounded in the parietes of the chest—inte?'- costal, internal mammary—from the phrenic^ or from the smaller vessels of the lung. The symptoms which indicate these sources respectively, differ materially, but unfortunately are often so ill defined that an exact diagnosis is impossi- ble ; if direct surgical treatment is to avail anything under these circum- stances, we cannot be too careful in the attempt to determine the exact source of hemorrhage. The position of the wound in the chest-wall, intersecting the path of either the intercostal or the internal mammary vessel, and the flow from the wound of a stream of either arterial or venous blood, without ha.nnoptysis, while i>er- cussion reveals an accumulation of fluid in the pleura, form a group of symp- toms that are easy to read, and in which the indications are clear; but such are seldom seen. If such were present, no surgeon could fail to seek the bleeding orifice, to dilate the wound if necessary by incision, and, failing to take tlu‘ vessel by the forceps, tenaculum, or needle, to ado}it some one of the many methods specially designed for the control of hemorrhage from tliese parts. In the exploration for the bleeding point, the position of the intercostal vessel in relation to the rib, placed under cover of its overhanging, inferior border, must be borne in mind. To verify the source from which the jet proceeds, pressure made by a finger in the wound, against the lower border of the rib, may determine the bleeding point or vessel (Boyer'); or a gutter-shaped piece of card-board, carried sloping into the wound, may,_ I>y catching the blood flowing from above, ]>rove its intercostal source, while a flow frf>m beneath the gutter would point to the thoracic cavity as its origin (Bichterj. In con-