OPERATIONS ON THE JAWS. 543 ing tumoi’, without finy external incision, separating the soft parts 'with a I’aspatoiy, and sawdng the hone in front of and behind the tumor. The principal difficulty in these operations was not so much the separation of the tumor, as its “ delivery” through the mouth, which was slightly split in one instance. Fortunately the hemorrhage in both cases Avas slight, and the patients did well, but another surgeon was less fortunate, and lost his patient by secondary hemorrhage ; and considering the close proximity of the facial artery, and the necessary division of the inferior dental artery, this is not to be wondered at. For my own part, I do not think tliat the extra troulile and risk of the proceeding are balanced by the absence of a scar, which in the major- ity of cases need not involve the lip, and, if properly placed, will he neai’ly invisi- ble afterwards. The same may be said of the so-called “ suli-periosteal resec- tions” of the upper and lower jaws. In cases of necrosis, it is of course advisable to preserve all the jieriosteum, aud in extracting a sequestrum, it may lie occasionally necessary to tiu’u aside the soft parts with a raspatory; but any systematic stripping of periosteum from a jaw involved in a tumor, is not only impossible in most instances, hut, if undertaken, will only leave shreds of periosteum Avith possildy some portions of diseased tissue attached. In one case in wliich I took considerable trouble to preserve the muco-perios- teuni of the palate, Avhen removing the up})er jaAV, the flap proved a great annoyance to the patient during convalescence. Remoa^al of the Upper Jaav.—I’artial or complete removal of the upper jaw may be most conveniently performed as folloAvs, the incisions being extended as the gravity of the case may indicate. A straiglit incision through the median line of the upper lip, aud prolonged on one side of the columna nasi into the nostril of the atfected side, Avill alloAV the tissues of the face to be readily dissected up from the jaAV, so as to expose completely the front Avail of the antrum. This may then lie }ierforated and removed Avith l)one-forceps, so as to permit of the extraction of a tumor from Avithin, or room may thus lie found for the removal of large ])ortions of the palate. In a case of more extensive disease, in addition to the incision already made, one should be begun near tlie iimei' angle of the orbit, and lie carried doAvn by the side of the nose and around the ala into the nostril. Tins Avill allow of further reflection of the soft tissues, and more comjlete exposui-c of the hone, so that it Avould he easy to cut aAvay large portions of the jaAv Avith suitahlc lioiie-forceps; or a small saAV could he readily carried transversely from the nostril at any desirable IcA^el, so as to ju’eserve cither the [)alatine or orbital plate. For I’emoval of the entire upper jaAv, it Avill be advisalile to make an addi- tional incision heloAV the orbit from the inner angle to the malar hone, folloAving the natural curve of the skiu-markiugs of the part. This incision may lie prolonged on to the malar hone as far as may be necessary, and may he met at its extremity by another at right angles to it in very extensive disease of that bone. The flap of skin is noAv to lie reflected outAvards, and this method has the great advantage of preserving the facial nerve, and of dividing only small liranches of the facial artery. 1 )ivision of the hone Avill he required at three points: (1) the palate, (2) the nasal process of the maxilla, and (3) the malar hone; and tliese sections may he made Avith the saAV or hone-forceps, or more couvenientlj^^ Aidth both. A narroAV saw, Avith movable hack, is to lie passed into the nostril, and the hard palate divided Avith the alveolus, from which a central incisor tooth should have been previously extracted. The saAV should he kept parallel to the floor of the nostril, and there need ho no fear of damaging the })liarynx Avith its extremity. The movable back allows the blade of the saAV to pass through