INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1050 Cases of Hydatid Tumor of Liver Treated Y'eai'. 1877 C. F. Age. 58 Sex. M. Miirried single. I 1. Marr’cV History. | State on admission. i The liver dulness began at lower border of 6tli rib in front and 9th behind, and extended vertically 7^ inches ; in the middle line it reached to the umbilicus. Above, its upper border corresponded to xiphoid cartilage, and on left it reached nearly to mammary line. An inch above the umbilicus, to the right ■ of the middle line, was an ovoid swell- ; ing, tender and ill-defined, measuring ' about 3 inches upwards and outwards, I reaching to within an inch of first I floating rib. The swelling was elastic I and fluctuating. 1878 W.S. 38 M. Marr’d Ten weeks ago was taken j with severe twistingl pains in abdomen. j The abdomen was very tense and tender, especially in epigastric and hypochondriac regions. May 11, the abdomen was very tense and dull on percussion, right across. The swelling was semi-fluctuating. May 22, there was a distinct prominence in the epi- gastric region. 1879 S. M. 26 F. Single Four years ago was ill forj 14 days with sickness, loss of appetite, andj headache; not jaundiced: 6 days ago was attacked with vomiting ; no abdo- minal pain ; at the same time she noticed lier eyes were yellow and urine high-colored. Liver dulness began in mammary line at 5th rib, in axillary line at 5th in- terspace. It extended to costal arch below, and measured 5 inches in nipple line, and 3^ in parasternal line. Ab- domen was somewhat distended. 1879 W.H. 58 M. Marr’d 24 years ago had jaundice. After lie was well of that, a small lump formed on his right side ; this dis- appeared, but came out again in lower part of right back ; this burstj and left an open, non-dis- charging wound for six months. 12 years ago he had a small tumor the size of a horse-bean in the lower imrt of the right side of chest, which has gradually increased till now. 4 years ago he felt as if something had given way inside him, followed by sickness and diar- rhoea. This was followed by hepatic tenderness, and a month after he was jaundiced. i The liver dulness began above at nipple level, and extended vertically down- wards about 7 inches. Just to the left of the middle line was an elastic, rounded tumor, with ill-defined edges ; it moved with respiration ; it seemed to protrude from under left costal arch. The right border of the tumor reached to the middle line. It measured trans- versely 5|^ inches, and vertically 4|- inches ; no fluctuation could be ob- tained.