637 AVOUNDS OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. Suffocation is not imminent from liemorrliage alone ; but other causes may produce it, varying according to the location and character of the wound. Thus it may be due to occlusion of the larynx by the base of a divided tongue, or hy a divided or detached epiglottis; or to occlusion of some part of the air-tube by impacted fragments of severed or partially severed carti- lage or other structui’e. Even the ball itself, in cases of gunshot wound, has been knoAvn to produce this symptom by its arrest in the air-passage. In case of threatening apnoea from loose fragments of cartilage, distinct flapping of tlie fragment may be recognized, as in the case under the care of Sir Charles Bell which has already been alluded to. The subjective symptoms of incised Avounds are pain, cough, spasm, dys- phagia or aphagia, dyspnoea or threatening apnma, dysphonia or aphonia. Debility of voice sometimes results from direct injury to the vocal bands in Avounds through the thyroid cartilage. In wounds above the vocal bands, the voice Avill be lost Avhile the edges of the external Avound are alloAved to gape, and Avill be restored Avhen they are approximated by bending the Iiead, or Avhen the external orifice is occluded Avith the hand or with a compress. Dysphagia and aphagia are usually due to section of the pharynx or oeso- phagus, food and drink escaping by the external Avound, or passing into the air-passage. Cough is due to direct access of air, and access of mucus, blood, and saliva. Expectoration is usually difficult, and apnma may result from this cause. Intense thirst is an occasional symptom, and may be very promi- nent, as in a suicidal case mentioned in the Medical and Surgical History of the Rebellion,^ Avhich required the use in a peculiar Avay of tAventy gallons of water daily, to assuage it. Some Avater was sucked through a tube attached to a reservoir, and apparently SAvalloAved; and then a quantity Avas alloAved to pass through the pharynx and escape by the Avound. Lacerated wounds present much the same symptoms as incised Avounds. The hemorrhage is much less as a rule; the danger from suffocation by blood or blood-clots, greater. Gunshot wounds^ complicated as they often are Iiy serious contusion, ma}^ present the symptoms of contused Avounds in addition to pain, emphysema, escape of fluids from the Avound, aphonia or dysphonia, cougli, expectoration, etc., as detailed in connection Avith the symptoms of incised wounds. The impact of the ball sometimes produces a local numbness, or a numbness extending into the arm, indicative of implication of the spinal accessory nerve. Torticollis is mentioned in military records as quite frequent. Con- tusion or laceration of the pueumogastric nerve or of its laryngeal tAvigs, may produce paralysis or spasm of the laryngeal muscles, entailing aphonia on the one hand or stridor on the other, from that cause, independently of any mechanical result of the direct lesion in the tissues. Stridor may be due, likeAvise, to paralysis of the dilating muscles of the glottis. Internal injury of the laryngeal structures is quite frequent, and aphonia may result from such direct injury to the vocal bands. Mr. Erichsen has called attention to a special loss of sensitiveness of the glottis, permitting the passage of food and drink into the air-passage, a condition recognized by S. 1). Gross,^ McGuire,^ and other Avriters, as a characteristic symptom of gunshot Avounds of the larynx. The primary hemorrhage is much less than in incised Avounds ; but the secondary hemorrhage may be more profuse, and may suffocate the patient Ijy inundating the air-passage or by occluding it Avith clots. Such accidents ai’e particularly to be feared after too great assiduity in closing the external ' Op. cit,., Part First, Surgical Volume, p. 400. ® Op. cit. ® Holmes’s System of Surgery, Am. Ed. vol. iii. p. 484.