989 rOREIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES. stance lias not escaped yier its exit may be assisted by a catbartic. Should the substance become fixed across the rectum, gentle and well- directed etibrts should be made to extract it. When from its character it is unlikely to pass through the pylorus, or is certain to damage any part of the tube in which it remains, gastrotomy should lie advised, and its performance not too long delayed. It must be borne in mind, however, when considering this operation, that many extraordinary recoveries have occurred after the ex})ulsion per anum of numerous and awkivardly shaped foreign bodies ; but though these cases should make the surgeon deliberate, notbing should cause him to delay, after ivell making up his mind that the probabilities are all against spontaneous expulsion, and in favor of dangerous I'etention. Gastrotomy is to be distinguished from yastrostomy. The former is the name given to the operation of 0})ening the stomach with the object of re- moving a foreign body, and then closing the wound in the stomach, replac- ing the viscus, and sewing up the external wound with tbe hope that the patient will return to health and safety, and the stomach to a perfectly nor- mal condition. Gastrostomy, on the other band, is designed to rescue a per- son from starvation by making a permanent opening, or artificial mouth, by attaching the walls of the stomach to the abdominal parietes, when from any cause the natural food-channel is obstructed. Both tliese operations are to be distinguished from a third, sometimes wrongly called gastrotomy, namely the division of the abdominal parietes for exploratory or operative purposes, a procedure to which the term laparotomy is now applied.^ Gastrotomy must lie looked upon as a very successful operation. It is per- formed in the following manner;— An incision is to be made over the stomach, by carefully cutting through the different strata of the abdominal wall in either a longitddinal or oblique direction, until the peritoneum is reached; the peritoneum should then be punctured, and carefully divided upon a director introduced through the punctured opening. Tlie foi’eign body should now be felt for by passing the finger ti}) over the surface of the stomach; the stomach should lie raised into the wound by forceps, or by a ligature looped through the i)critoneal and muscular coats; and then an opening should be made into the stomach thus Fig. 1123. Fig. ]124, Lembert’s suture. Jobert’s suture. fixed, just sufficiently large to allow of the extraction of the foreign body with- out bi'uising or tearing the parietes of the viscus. The extraction can be ' Gastrorraptnj and enferorraphii are tlie closure of wounds of tlie stomach and intestine respec- Uv«ly hy means of sutures, after refreshing the bruised edges of tlie wounded viscus—a proceed- ing whicli, as has been observed, is quite unnecessary in tlie modea-n practice of applyino- sutures to the alimentary canal, whereby inversion and apposition of the serous surfaces are always sought.