VOL. V.—1 (1) THE INTERNATIONAL ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF SURGERY. INJURIES OF THE HEAD. BY CHARLES B. NANCREDE, AI.I)., PROFESSOR OF GENERAL AND ORTUOP^EDIC SURGERY IN THE PHILADELPHIA POLYCLINIC, SURGEON TO THE EPISCOPAL HOSPITAL AND TO ST. CHRISTOPHER’S HOSPITAL. In.juries of the Scalp. Contusions and wounds of tlie scalp are among the most common injuries of civil life. A preliminary consideration of the anatomy of the scalp will explain certain pathological peculiarities of injaries of that structure. The coverings of the skull, from without inward, arc the skin, superficial fascia, aponeurosis and muscular bellies of the occiiiito-frontalis muscle, sub- aponeurotic cellular tissue, and pericranium. The integument is firmly bound to the subjacent muscle and aponeurosis by the so-called fascia, which con- sists of firm, interlacing bundles of fibrous tissue, in the interspaces of which are little pellet-like masses of gi’annlar fat, forming an exceedingly inelastic structure. In this ramify the nnmeron-s vessels and nerves of the scalp. A consideration of these anatomical points explains several well-known clini- cal facts, viz., that the inelastic, suhentaneous cellular tissue can actually be indented by a blow ; that scalp wounds Vvdiich do not penetrate the aponeu- rosis seldom gape to any extent; and that when a scal[)-flap is formed, it neces- sarily carries its entire blood-supply with it, owing to the physical characters of the subaponeurotic cellular tissue which I shall presently consider. The origin and attachments of the aponeurosis and muscular bellies of tlie occi- pito-froutalis should he carefully borne in mind, as a knowledge of them ren- ders easy the difterential diagnosis between suliaponeurotic collections of pus and erysipelas. The posterior liellies of the muscle arise from the outer two- thirds of the superior curvcil lines of the occipital bone, and from the mastoid process of the temjioral. The space between them is occupied by tlie aponeu- rosis, wliich is attached to the occi[iital protuhei’ance and to the inner thirds of the superior curved lines. The anterior muscnlar bellies are blended with the pyrarnidalis nasi, corrugator supercilii, and orbicularis })ali>ehrarum on each