DISEASES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. 385 removed by screwing down the milled nut of the instrument and drawing the wire home. The little operation is quick and almost painless, as well as bloodless. The relief that it affords is great. Excessive hypertrophy of the mucous membrane covering the posterior extremity of the inferior turbinated bone, and localized there, is no unusual condition, and may be of such an extent that the whole posterior naris is occluded by a rounded, sessile tumor of irregular surface, which grows down- wards and backwards, until it rests partly upon the dorsum of the velum, and protrudes above into the upper pharyngeal space. It receives special mention here, because, owing to its peculiar position and shape, it cannot be safely reached and destroyed by any caustic method. The small wire ecra- seur of Jarvis here again certainly affords, when properly used, the most efficient and most satisfactory means of dealing with these localized hyper- trophies, and of effecting their entire removal.^ Fig. 933. Jarvis’s wire icraseur. The instrument is light, and at the same time powerftd ; it can be passed through a narrowed nasal passage without difficulty, and, if the size and loca- tion of the hypertrophic tumor have been carefully studied previous to its introduction, and if the wire loop have been arranged accordingly, no great difficulty is experienced in ensnaring the growth. Slight traction on the instrument, and a few turns of the milled nut, will now secure it tirmly, and the mass is then slowly cut through, to insure freedom from hemorrhage. The details of this little operation, which, if judged by its results, constitutes one of the more marked advances of recent rhinoscopic surgery, have been fully described by its originator in several recent articles.^ Fig. 934. If the vault of the pharynx be involved in the disease, as is usually the case, especially in young subjects (adenoid vegetations or hypertropbies),active surgical treatment will be retpiired, for s[»rays will be found ineffectual in producing any marked resorption of the hypertrophic masses. The choice ' Seiler, Medical Record, October 29, 1881 ; Boswortli, Medical Record, July 9, 1881. 2 Archives of Laryngology, vol. ii. No. 2 and vol. iii. No. 2; Transactions of tlie American Medical Association, 1881. VOL. V.—25