VOL. V..—19 ( 289 ) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. BY ALBEllT H. BU(JK, M.D., OF .\EW YOKK. Examination of the Patient. Tests of the Hearing Power.—In all the different forms of ear disease, with the exce})tion, perhaps, of those of the auricle, it is a matter of great importance to ascertain how far the patient’s power of liearing is impaired. In the case of an adult, considerable dependence may be placed upon the individual’s own statement Avitli regard to this point; hut in that of a child, the information desired must be obtained from the parents or guardian. It Avill not do, however, to depend entirely upon this sort of evidence: ive must supplement it ivith that Avhich may be obtained )jy means of certain simple tests. The ticking of a watch, and words or sentences spoken either in a whisper or in an ordinary tone of voice, constitute the only tests which have ever been employed to any great extent. Of the two, that which is based upon the employment of articulate speech, is the one more commonly emijloyed, and the more satisfactory. At first we employ it, not in a formal manner and with the consciousness that we are using a test, but unconsciously, in the simple routine of ascertaining the patient’s history. If in this ivay Ave have learned that only one ear is probably affected, our judgment Avith regard to the patient’s general acutenass of hearing cannot safely lie taken as furnishing a correct estimate of the hearing of the affected ear. A more formal test then becomes necessary. For example, the patient should be told to close firmly the unaffected ear Avith his finger, and to sit or stand in such a position that the physician’s voice may he directed toward the affected ear, Avliich remains open. In the caseof patients AAdio are decidedly deaf in both ears, Ave must not forget the fact that they often possess the poAver of “ reading the lips’’ to a remarkable degree. Under these circumstances the patient should sit Avith his face turned toward the physician, but Avith liis eyes closed. Furtliermore, he should be rerpiired to rei)eat the exact Avords spoken by the physician. In testing the hearing Avith the Avatcli, it is better to hold it first at a ]»oint Avhich lies beyond the hearing distance of the ear Avhich is being tested, and then to gradually bring it nearer and nearer to the car, until the patient is able to distinguish the sound of the ticking. As a rule, it is not necessary to ask the patient to close the other ear dni’ing the progress of the test, as the ticking of an ordinary Avatch is a sound of too great feebleness to read) the opposite ear. Tlie proximity of a Avail, door, or other refiecting surlace, may, hoAvever, render such a precaution necessary. If the hearing is markedly affected, tlie ticking of the Avatch may not lie heard CA'en Avhen it is pressed Hrmly against the auricle. In this connection it slionld he remarked that a patient Avho tails to distinguish the sound of the ticking when the Avatch is pressed against the auricle, Avill often hear the sound (juite