ACUTE LARYNGITIS. 691 mucous connective tissue, wlien diffuse, is described as jylilegmonous laryngitis ; when circumscribed, as abscess of the larynx. Inflammation of the perichon- drium is termed ktryngeal perichondritis., and inflammation of the cartilages laryngeal chondritis. Acute Laryngitis. Simple or Catarrhal Laryngitis.—This occurs idiopathically, deutero- pathically, and traumatically. All these varieties may^ be associated with tracheitis or bronchitis on the one hand, or with pharyngitis or rhino-pharyn- gitis on the other. In the former case, the process is usually confined to the interior of the larynx; in the latter, both surfaces are commonly involved. Acute idiopathic laryngitis is usually the result of undue exposure to cold or moisture. Among other causes may be cited direct local irritation by mechanical and chemical products, or by over use of the voice; transmitted local irritation in dentition, in stomatitis, and in glossitis; constitutional poisoning, sometimes idiosyncratic, by iodine, antimony, mercury, and other drugs. Occasionally it is rheumatic in origin, and at times associated with synovitis. Acute deuteropathic laryngitis occurs in many cases of arthritis, thrush, diphtheria, pneumonia, acute tuberculosis, syphilis, typhus and enteric fever, smallpox, measles, scarlet fever, erysipelas, and pyremia. Acide trau- matic laryngitis is the result of local injury, whether through accident, care- lessness, or design.‘ Acute catarrhal laryngitis is usually diffuse. Sometimes it is circumscribed to one or more special structures, such as the epiglottis, a vocal band, or the like, and—when not traumatic—cliiefly so in cases of syphilis, carcinoma, tuberculosis, and lupus. The diffuse form may run its entire course to recovery in from twenty-four hours to ten days. The circumscribed varietjg when dyscrasic, usually subsides into chronic inflammation of indefinite duration. When traumatic, its duration varies with the character of the injury which has excited the lesion. The special surgical interest in laryngitis resides in the location of the inflammatory process, rather than in its intensity. The pathological plienomena of congestion, tumefaction, and infiltration, with their sequeflie, are similar to those occurring in inflammation of mucous membranes gene- rally ; but the fact that any considerable swelling in the interior of tlie larynx, or at its superior outlet, embarrasses respiration by opjiosing a rneebani- cal barrier to access of air to the lungs in suflicient quantity, renders laryn- gitis peculiarly menacing to life, lienee every case should be carefully scrutinized from time to time by laryngoscopic inspection, not only to discern the progress of the inflammatory })rocess, ljut to learn the eflect of remedial measures. It will be observed in most instances that the entire laryngeal mucous membrane is congested and swollen. The features of the larynx are much thickened, the tumefaction being symmetrically bilateral as the rule. Movements of the epiglottis may be impede<l by the tumefaction of its mucous membrane, so that it is depressed with evident muscular effort, or remains erect. Circumscribed iuHammations are recognized by linear, mottled, or diffuse congestions, as may be, and by local tumefactions. Both circurnscrilied and diffuse congestions and tumefactions vary within extreme limits. Accumulations of mucus, here and there, simulate points of ulcera- tion ; for it is sometimes extremely diflicult to determine, in the reflected image, whether a given abnoi-mal a}i})earance be sunken or in relief. Mucus, > See under Wouudri and Scalds (page 038), Fractures (page 055), and Foreign Bodies (page 004).