491 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. severe, ami depends upon a wound of an unusually large tonsillar artery ; or, possibly, if the puncture has been very dee]), the blood may come from the ascending pharyngeal artery. The fear of Avounding the internal carotid artery by any reasonable incision is chimerical, and in fatal cases of ligature of the common carotid, for supposed wound of the internal carotid, that vessel has been found intact. Several illustrations of this statement Avill be found in a list of fifty cases of Avound of the throat in Avhich the common carotid Avas tied, appended to a paper by Mr. Harrison Cripps,* in Avhich the author advocates ligature of the external rather tlian of the common carotid in similar cases. Wounds of the pharynx by bodies SAAmlloAved, such as fish-bones, needles, pins, or pieces of grass (Moore), give rise to serious abscesses in the cellular tissue behind the pharynx. In tAVO cases I have knoAvn torticollis produced by a pin Avhich I Avas able to extract Avith a horse-hair probang. Foreign bodies, such as portions of insufficiently masticated meat, may lodge in the pharynx and give rise to serious symptoms, and even death, by obstructing the Avindpipe.^ Unfortunately, in these cases the urgent symp- toms are often misinterpreted and the patient thought to be suffering from apoplexy, for the prompt removal of the foreign body Avith the finger is a sufficiently ohAdous and simple mode of treatment. A case is recorded by Mr. Pollock^ in Avhich a set of displaced artificial teeth caused death by being impacted in the pharynx and pressing on the epiglottis; but, on the other hand. Sir James PageP removed a large plate, Avith nine artificial teeth attached, from the pharynx of an old gentleman four months after they had been SAvalloAved. Tooth-plates may in most cases be AvithdraAvn from the pharynx Avith ordinary curved forceps; but Avhen they have projecting metal points, these are apt to become entangled in the Avail of the pharynx and prevent with- draAval. In these circumstances it Avill he necessary to open the pharynx, as in tAVO successful cases recorded by Mr. Cock.® The foreign hody being fixed at the point where the pharynx and oesophagus join, an incision along the inner edge of the left sterno-mastoid muscle, with its centre opposite the cri- coid cartilage, Avill alloAv of a careful dissection to the inner side of the carotid sheath, until the projecting AA^all of the pharynx is reached. The gullet haA"- ing been opened and the foreign body extracted, the opening may be advan- tageously closed Avith cai’bolized catgut sutures. Diseases of the Mouth and Fauces. Inflammatory affections of the mouth and fauces may be due to local or constitutional causes. A scald of the mouth from imbibing hot fluids, or hot steam (as not unfrequently occurs in the case of the children of the poor from drinking out of a teakettle), Avill produce a sodden condition of the mucous membrane of the mouth, Avith possibly vesication. Inflammatory action supervenes in due course, and may lead to fatal oedema of the larynx and fauces, but in the mouth coni])aratively little harm Avill be done except by the local destruction of epithelium, Avhich may be seen forming a dense white membrane closely resembling that found in diphtheria. ' Medico-Cliirurgical Transactions, vol. Ixi. 1878. 2 Beale, Pathol. Soc. Trans., vol. iii. ■* British Journal of Dental Science, vol. v. ^ Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d series, vols. iv. and xiii. ® Lancet, April 3, 1869.