832 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. suckling, mental excitement, exposure to cold, and feeble health, are the causes which give rise to inflammation during lactation. The usual symp- toms of acute inflammation of the breast are, enlargement, hardness, and tenderness of one or more portions or lobes of the gland, and sooner or later redness of the skin over the aftected part; there is also constitutional irritation, and there are frequent^ rigors. The inflammation may confine itself to one or more lobes, or it may involve the greater part of the gland ; in cases the result of lactation, the whole gland, or a portion of it, may, in the first instance, he simply swollen and hard, without any marked signs of inflammation. Mammary inflammation may end in resolution, the gland recovering with- out change; it may result in some thickening of the breast structures; or it may end in suppuration. The progress of the inflammation varies in dif- ferent cases; sometimes it is very rapid, and it is then usually quickly fol- lowed by suppuration, and accompanied by rigors and high fever. When suppuration takes place, as the result of mammary inflammation, it may he circumscribed or diffuse, and it may take place superficial fo the glandular structure, in the glandular structure itself, or behind it. Mam- mary abscesses have, therefore, been divided into superficial, mammary, and post-mammary. The superficial form may he limited, or it may spread in the cellular tissue around a consideiable portion of the gland ; it is not usually attended by such severe symptoms as the other two forms. The mammary form may also he limited or diffused ; not infrequently, especially in neglected cases, several abscess-cavities exist in the structure of the gland, causing ten- sion and pain, and destroying more or less of its substance, the pus slowly Imrrowing toward the surface. The local and general symptoms of this condition are often severe. The post-mammary abscess is slow in its progress, and from the position of the pus behind the gland, the latter is pushed forward and projects in a marked manner. In these cases the pus either slowly passes towards the circumference of the breast, generally the lower part of it, and there points at one or more places, or it may gradually work its way through the glandular structure, and point somewhere on the superficial surface over it. It will sometimes happen that more than one of these forms of suppuration exist together, and occasionally both breasts are attacked at the same time or in succession. The treatment of acute mammary inflammation and suppuration consists, in the first instance, in the use of soothing applications in the form of warm fomentations, or lotions of acetate of lead and opium, or belladonna, or poul- tices. In cases which are the result of lactation, the milk must he drawn off with a breast-pump, and care must he taken to improve the condition of the nipple, and of its ducts, which are sometimes blocked up. It is best to give up suckling the child from the affected breast, but when the mother’s health permits, it may be occasionally nursed at the other. In addition to the local treatment, the general health must he carefully attended to, and the action of the bowels promoted by proper jnedicines. Should portions of the gland remain hardened and enlarged, the affected breast should be supported, and pressure by means of belladonna or other medicated plaster should be made over the enlarged part; in obstinate cases, counter-irritation by the use of iodine or of a blister may be tried if other means fail, and in very chronic cases an antiseptic incision made into the thickened portion will give good results. When suppuration takes place in connection with the breast, the pus should be evacuated as soon as possible by incision. In superficial abscesses detection of the pus is easy, but in mammary and post-mammary abscesses fluctuation cannot always be recognized until the pus has burrowed its way towards the