278 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. at the same time, moi’e surgical thoroughness and prudence. If the growth originates in, or invades, the conjunctiva, the difficulties and dangers are greatly increased. In the case of a young lady with such a tumor of the con- junctiva scleroticse, I resorted to subconjunctival ligation and subsecpient excision, but the growth again increased. Dr. S. C. Ayres thereupon incised the conjunctiva and dissected it from the tumor, which was then firmly ligated close to the sclera and cut away in front of the ligature. Afterwards a small nodule of vessels remained, which was raised with forceps and snipped away. The recovery was complete. This case is illustrated in Plate XXVII., Fig. 1. Diseases of the Tear Passages. The necessary drainage of the eyes is secured by a system of sewers, composed of the tear sac, nasal duct, and eanaliculi. At the inner end of each tarsus is seen a small round opening, the 'punctiim lachrymale, which is the beginning of the canaliculus leading to the sac. The lower punctum, by its position, seems to be more important than the upper. In health, the mechanism of the process of taking up and carrying away the tears is ex- plained by the action of the orbicularis muscle, helping the siphon system supplied by the eanaliculi. Each punctum rests gently against the globe, where it readily takes up the fluid. Epiphora.—Paresis or paralysis of the circular muscle of the lids, is always attended by a Avatery eye. This is particularly troublesome in facial paralysis, from whatever cause, and persists as long as the impaired muscular actiAuty. But the healthy action of this muscle can only take aAvay the tears through file puncta Avhen in proper position. Mechanical displacement of these points Avill lead to constant Aveeping. Epiphora from this cause alone is often seen in inflammation of the conjunctiva and lids, causing SAvelling and eversion of the punctum. The same result is produced by contraction of the skin, the pre- sence of lid tumors, hypertrophy of the lachrymal caruncle, chronic blepharitis marginalis, or any other disease that leads to displacement of the punctum. It is often seen in flie lax lids of old people, and is explained in the same mechanical Avay. Some eversion of the loAA^er punctum and troublesome Aveeping, are constant accompaniments of granular lids. If possible, this annoyance should he relieved by removing the cause. But the constant standing of tears in the eye often aggravates and keeps up the mechanical cause. Hence relief of the epiphora, itself a great boon, may he a means of curing the disease that causes and keeps it up. Any displacement of the loAver punctum is exaggerated Avhen the eye is turned upAvard. In protracted epiphora from this simple cause, the little open- ing may be closed up, covered Avith dry epidermis, and A'ery difficult to detect at alh A faint depression m the dry lid, Avhere it is known that it should he, is its only indication. A small conical prohe, gently pressed into it perpendicu- larly, thence passes on into the sac. When the diagnosis is positive, a very simple surgical operation gives immediate and great relief. I mean slitting the loAver canaliculus. The punctum must first he stretched hy a conical prohe, so as to admit the knife or scissors. A sharp, probe-pointed Weber’s knife (Fia; 878), or a delicate pair of scissors Avitli a prohe-hranch, may he used. The latter instrument causes the least pain, and is quickest in its action. The probe-branch is passed into the punctum, and horizontally along the canal, for three or four mm. The scissors are then cpiickly closed, and the operation is completed. TavIcc a day for tAvo days, a blunt probe should be