HERNIA. 1150 pair of straight dressing forceps across the sac at the place indicated, then to sew the sac with catgut, and afterwards to cut it straight otf above the sntnre. If the hernia he irreducible, the sac must of course be first freely opened, the omentum drawn out and examined, any adhesion that may exist near the neck of the sac separated, and bowel carefully looked for. If a loop of bowel be found, but slightly adherent, the adhesions may be carefully separated, and the bowel returned. If the quantity of omentum in the sac be small, it may also be returned; but incase it is voluminous, diseased, or much ad- herent, it is better to tie its vessels carefully and separately with small catgut ligatures, and then to cut it off short with blunt scissors, afterwards securing any small bleeding points; care must be taken that the stump of omentum does not sli]) back into the abdomen before tlie process is completed. 'When the sac has been thoroughly examined, and tbe way cleared, its neck should be drawn out, sejiarated, and tied in the ivay just described. The wire may now be applied to the conjoined tendon and Poiq)art’s liga- ment, as in the subcutaneous operation. Then tliere being no sac to be taken up in the scrotum, and the cord being sufficiently isolated and distinctl}' seen, the point of the needle may be passed across tlie lower part of the superficial ring, through the insertion of Poupart’s ligament at the S]iine of the pnbis, ami olfiiquely through the conjoined tendon and inner. pillar, about half an inch above the pubic crest. The inner end of the wire may next be hooked on to the needle, and drawn across on the inner side of the vas deferens and twisted on to the outer end, in the way described in the account of the snbeutaneous operation. The lower part of the sciotal incision must then lie drawn together by sutures, closely ap})lied, a drainage-tube of the size of a quill being placed along the bottom of the wound, from the superficial ring above, and out at the end of the wound below. The protective and gauze-dressing may then he applied, the large, outermost dressing being provided with an opening for the penis, and the loiver border being tucked under close beliind the scrotum, to serve as a suspensory bandage witli a sufficient amount of padding under it. The elastic bandage should be carried across the perineum from one thigh to the other, in addition to the turns of donble spica on the groins. It will he well to pin over all a square piece of Jaequinette mackintosh, with a hole in the centre for the penis, to keep the dressings unsoiled by the urine. The use of the catheter is sometimes required for a day or two. On the third or fourtli day the scrotal wound may be found nnited, and the stitches may then be withdrawn, and the drainage-tube shortened. The condition of the parts then resendiles that seen in the subcutaneous operation, and the wires may he withdrawn on or about the tenth day. There is rarely trouble from any etfusion of lilood if the veins of the cord have not been cut, and if the drain- age-tube is kept clear. A little swelling of the testicle, or effusion into the tunica vaginalis, if pi'eseut, usually disap})cars witliout further treatment. The severity of this operation is, of course, greater than that described as the subcutaneous-wii-e operation. It is modified, however, in cases of reduci- ble hernia, where no omentum is removed, and where none of the abdominal viscera are involved in infiammatory complications. Its danger is increased by removal of any part of the omentum, adherent or non-adherent, by the omentum being diseased, or by intestinal adhesions having been separated. We may then have some local or general peritonitis. These cases thus naturally fall, in respect to prognosis and fatality, into tivo divisions, viz.. Those in which the operation is done for reducible henna, and those in which it is done for irreducible hernia. If, however, great care be taken in the separation and ligature, by catgut, of all bleeding points in the omentum, mesentery, or adhesions of intestitie, and if the antiseptic spray-