556 SURGERY OF THE TEETH AND ADJACENT PARTS. demand treatment; there are many departures from a normal type where neither the utility nor the beauty of these organs, nor the symmetry of sur-’ rounding 'features, is seriously atfected by the malposition. The regulation of teeth, moreover, often involves the w^earing of fixtures which cannot be removed and cleansed as frequently as the health of the mouth demands; their continued presence may provoke caries of the teeth; and prolonged treatment may seriously injure the nervous system ; wherefore the regulation of teeth should not be undertaken without due consideration. Regulation of teeth may be undertaken, under favoi-able circumstances, at any age short of full maturity; but, all things considered, the most desirable period to begin the correction of an extensive irregularity, is when the cus- pidati and second molars are fully erupted. The occlusion of the teeth is an important factor in determining tlie permanency of the change. All attemps at correction, at any age, will be futile, unless the antagonizing teeth, upon occlusion, will serve to hold the displaced teeth in their new positions. Success in treatment is based upon the fact that the teeth are placed upon the maxillae, surrounded by vascular, elastic, bony processes, which are easily moved or absorbed under pressure, and that reproduction of bone will follow, and will make the teeth solid in their new locations. The possibilities under favorable conditions, within certain limits, are almost unbounded. Narrow jaws may be widened, protruding jaws made to recede, individual teeth moved considerable distances, and teeth elongated or shortened, or twisted in their sockets. The success of skilful efibrts in this direction has been triumphant. Some of the most marked cases are where the face is deformed by a pro- truding or receding jaw, either upper or lower. Strictly speaking, when this occurs with the upper jaw, it is not the maxilla which is at fault, but rather the whole dental arch. Such a condition in the lower jaw is more likely to arise from a defective articulation at the joint, but in either ease, when taken at the proper age, it is quite amenable to treatment. It is not alwaj's advis- able to attempt to alter the form and expression of a mouth where the condition is an inherited peculiarity—a part of the family type—and where the change would involve prolonged eftbrt, with possible breaking up of a good articulation of masticating organs, and with the knowledge that nature will be constantly making an eftbrt to return to the hereditary type. In hereditary cases of extensive deformity, in which interference has been de- layed until at or near maturity, we can never feel certain but that the original tendency to malposition, so long unbroken, may reassert itself at any time that we abandon the use of retaining fixtures. Upon general principles it is desirable to retain every sound tooth in the mouth, yet there are many cases of crowded dentition where the removal of a tooth upon each side of the jaw is justifiable. The retention of every tooth in the mouth is not necessary to the efficiency of the masticating apparatus, and is not required to maintain the contour of the jaw, while the loss of cer- tain teeth produces no visible external eftect. The articulation of masticating organs is of more importance than their number, and a limited mmiber of grinding teeth, fitting closely upon occlu- sion, will be of greater benefit to the individual than a mouth full of teeth with their articulation disturbed. The treatment of irregularities is almost entirely mechanical. To the ana- tomical, physiological, and pathological knowledge required of the operator, there must be added a knowledge of mechanical science, and the ingenuity to apply it. Levers, pulleys, inclined planes, wedges, and elastics, singly and in combination, are required for this purpose. It is quite impossible for any