DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 852 lary glands, one or both pectoral muscles may be divided ; but this proceed- ing is not often required. In removing glands from the axilla, it is important to ligature any vessels that are met with before dividing them, as there may be difficulty afterwards in securing them, more especially if they are divided close to the main trunks. In cases where the edges of the wound cannot be brought together, I have sometimes found it useful to stitch the skin of tlie flaps to the muscles below, so as to prevent its inversion and retraction. It need scarcely be said that the whole operation should be conducted on strictly antiseptic principles. Affections of the Male Breast. Hypertrophy.—The male breast has occasionally been met with largely hypertrophied, and if such a condition should be troublesome, removal of the gland would be the best proceeding, if the patient’s health admitted of an operation. Inflammatory Affections.—The male breast may be affected with inflam- mation, and occasionally an abscess results. An enlarged and tender condi- tion of one or both glands occurs sometmies in young men. The elder Gross refers to three cases in his work on Surgery, and I have met with two cases affecting the left bi’east. In one of these the condition returned several times, leaving the breast somewhat enlarged. The treatment of these conditions must be soothing, locally, with avoidance of any injurious pressure from the clothes, and the administration of saline aperients, followed by tonic remedies if the health is not good. Tumors.—Both simple and malignant growths are occasionally met with in the male breast. Among the former are cysts (in one recorded instance the cyst contained milk) and fibromas. Among the latter are spindle-celled sarcomas, of which I have seen two examples, and cancers, which are most frequently of the scirrhous variety. The simple, infiltrated, atrophic, and cuirass-like form have all been observed in the male breast. About two per cent, of all cases of mammary cancer occur in the male breast, and the dis- ease runs its progress more or less rapidly, and involves other tissues and organs, as in women. The treatment of the various tumors which affect the male breast is that of similar tumors as they occur in the female.