580 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. centre or other appropriate part of a transverse wound, and not to close the more dependent part under any circumstances as long as there is any discharge. If sutures are used, they should he pilaced close to the edge of the wound ; and adhesive plaster, with careful position, sliould be employed to support the stitches and keep the ])latysma at rest. The sutures may be of catgut, horse- hair, or wire, as is thought most appropriate, and antiseptic dressings can be perfectly adapted to superticial wounds, though primary union is not usually got throughout, however desirable it may be to obtain it. The appearance of swelling or erythema, or any evidence of pressure, will make it necessary to remove the sutures partially or completely. Wounds of the neck which involve the air-i)assages^ great vessels, and nerves, are of course extremely dangerous, and often rapidly fatal. The air-passages alone are not uncommonly involved. The suicide, as has been often remarked, frecjuently fails in his purpose by cutting high and throwing his head too far backwards. In this position the windpipe is advanced, ancl the carotids are covered by the sterno-mastoids, which become tense. When, on the other hand, the wound is inflicted lower down, the resistance of the laryngeal and tracheal cartilages, the spasmodic contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscles, and the greater depth at which the carotids lie, frecpiently save those vessels from being wounded. Mr. Hilton suggests that when the air-passages are opened below the glottis, and air escapes from* the lungs, the muscles con- necting the chest and arms are so weakened as to diminish their power of action. The carotid arteries have been laid bare by the suicide, and yet not o}iened, and well-authenticated cases have been recorded in which both the trachea and oesophagus have been wholly divided, and yet both the caro- tids and jugulars have escaped. Very free bleeding may attend wounds of the forepart of the neck, and prove highly dangerous to weak patients, even although the great bloodvessels be not wounded. There are also man}' irregularities and abnormalities in the size and distribution of the blood- vessels in this region, which may render wounds especially dangerous. If the carotids are wounded, rapid death will probably ensue, unless faint- ing occur and give time for surgical aid, or the irregularity and narrowness of the wound prevent the rapid escape of blood. Xo doubt, if skilled help were at hand, death might in some cases be warded otf by pressure, followed by ligature of both ends of the artery, or by ligaturing the lower end and compressing the upper, as may be seen in cases related by Larrey and Hodgson. The former has recorded instances in which the liga- ture of the main vessel on the jjroximal side alone, succeeded in arresting hemorrhage, but this must always prove a most unsafe proceeding, and tlnif it fails in practice is shown by the cases related by Hreschet in his notes to Hodgson. Coiu})ression can with some success be a^iplied to the common carotid, but as there is no flrni point of support behind the external and in- ternal carotids, there is little use in attempting it in wounds of these vessels. Wounds of the great veins of the neck are particulaily dangerous, not only from hemorrhage but from the risk of admission of air. The free anastomosis between these vessels greatly favors bleeding. The occlusion of one of the jugulars is not without danger from inflaiumation occurring within it, and also from the disturbance which follows in tlie circulation within the head. It is in the later stages of the operation of excising growths tliat the jugulars are most apt to be wounded, when the tumor is drawn forwards in order to divide its posterior connections, and any adherent veins are in this way put upon the stretch. A part of the vein may be thus excised, and air may rush in with an audible sound, rapidly occasioning the utmost danger. I have twice witnessed this accident, but the danger in each case was overcome by rapidly applying pressure, followed by ligature of