SURGICAL AFFECTIOJfS OF THE THYROID GLAND. G13 Tumors of the Thyroid.—Adenoid groudhs occasionally occur in the thyroid, and lie imbedded in its substance. They form outgrowths, and are more or less detached, and so capable of being enucleated. Carcinoma occasionally attacks the tliyroid, and that usually suhsecpient to its appearance in the neighborhood or elsewhere. It is very rarely seen as a primary affection, though cases of reputed cancer have been not very uncom- monly reported. All forms of carcinoma have been met with in this organ, but the soft or brain-like cancer is perhaps the most common. The rapidity of growth, the great pain, the marked pressure-effects, the invasion of tlie skin and the parts around (especially the windpipe and pharynx), and the pro])a- gation of the disease to glands, lungs, etc., together Avitli the disastrous intiu- ence it has on the general health, proclaim tlie nature of the affection. There may be sanguineous cysts foTmed in the carcinomatous mass ; and, if the skin gives way, a malignant ulcer may he established. The great bloodvessels may be opened, and the inevitable deatli hastened by bleeding. The clinical history, physical features, and progress of malignant growths of the thyroid, differentiate them from all those of a simple character, which are for the most part smooth and of ronnded outline, of soft consistence (fluc- tuant, perhaps), of slow growth, painless for the most part, causing pressure- effects only when they have attained a great size, and not involving the over- lying or surrounding parts, or the constitution. In dealing Avith tumors of tlie thyroid, it is, of course, essential to olitain a distinct knowledge of their nature, as otherwise neither their jirogress nor treatment can be determined. Hot only the clinical history of the groAvtli— its origin and progress—but its exact anatomical position and its connections, together Avith the state of tlie surrounding parts and the effects it occasions, must be carefully studied and considered. Whether it occupies the Avhole gland or part only ; in Avhat portion of the gland it has begun, and Avhether it has penetrated deeply or not into the tissues; Avhat has been its rate of pro- gress, and Avhether its groAvth has lieen regular or the i-everse; Avhether its increase has been expedited liy any temporary cause, such as pregnancy, menstruation, etc.; Avhat is its consistence at all parts of its surface; its mobility on the underlying and in the surrounding parts, and tlie state of the skin and bloodvessels over it; its Aveight, if it can lie poised on the fingers; its movement Avith deglutition; the presence of pulsation or fremitus; the effects of forced expiratoiy efforts on it; its pressure-effects on Avindpipe, oesophagus, bloodvessels, and nerves ; the presence of })ain locally or at a dis- tance, as caused by it, and the state of the general health —these, Avith an incpiiry into any inherited tendency, or any connection liy residence Avith specially unhealthy localities, Avill supply materials for a sound opinion. The surgeon Avill proliably determine first Avhether the tumor is simple or malignant, and, if simple, then Avdiat species of innocent groAvth it is. Cysts and solid tumors are usually easily distinguished; yet there are many cysts Avhich, from their tenseness, the thickness or hardness of their Avails, and the nature of their contents, are easil}' mistaken for solid growths. The shape, weight, resistance, and pressure-etfects are generally cliaracteristic, in solid tumors, and the speed Avith Avhich they groAV Avill Auxry according as they consist of fibrous, cartilaginous, or bony elements. J>y the aspirator the contents of c^^sts can be determined, but it is unde- sirable to have recourse to puncture it not really necessary. Much irritation may thus lie occasioned, and A-dolcnt bleeding has sometimes given much trouble. Cysts of the thyroid are to he distinguished from congenital, uni- lateral, simple cysts of the neck, by their position and history, and the fact that they are firmer and not trans]»ai-ent, and are accom]^)anied by an altera- tion in the Avhole thyroid body. The congenital simple cysts and the com-