1151 INGUINAL HERNIA. and-gaiize method is successfidly and conscientiously carried out, the danger of the proceeding is very much lessened. The nundier of cases in which I have, up to the present time, performed the above operation is 18 ; of these, 10 have been for reducible hernia, with removal of sac only; and 8 for irre- ducible hernia, ivitli removal of sac and portions of omentum, adherent or non-adherent. The first was done in July 13, 1878, for a large, right, scrotal, irreducible hernia, in a man, T. B., aged 26, admitted into King’s College Hos[)ital for sevei’e symptoms of strangulation. The hernia, after some difiiculty, was reduced by the taxis. The opera- tion was done witli antiseptic precautions, but not Listerism. There were no bad symp- toms, and no elevation of temperature after the operation, and the patient was dis- charged cured, and without wearing a truss, August 3. Tlie second case was done April, 1879, in a boy, aged ten, for irreducible, large, right, scrotal hernia, in wliich a considerable portion of adhei’ent omentum was removed with tlie sac. The result was very satisfactory, no bad sym[)toms ensued, and the patient was seen in November, 1881, perfectly well, having never worn a truss. Of the 18 patients, only one has died, and all the rest liave been cured. Tlie death occurred suddenly in a man, G. F., aged 45 (operated on .January 11, 1881), from a clot in tlie heart and congestion of tlie lungs, three days after operation during tlie very severe snow-storm of tliat winter. Some signs of adhesive local perito- nitis about the cut omentum were found, but the state of the sac and other iiarts ope- rated on was all that could be desired. Tlie operation had been undertaken at the patient’s earnest request, on account of the dragging pains and weight of an enormous left scrotal rupture, filled almost entirely by adherent omentum, which was removed witli the sac, after the arteries liad been carefully tied witli small catgut. The bowel was not adherent, and remained untouched and scarcely seen, and there was little or no bleeding during or after tlie operation. The patient’s urine was free from sugar or albumen ; but he had been subject to a bad, chronic winter-cough, which had aggravated his sufferings very much. All the other cases have turned out satisfactory cures, some during netirly two years, and, what is still more encouraging’, no dangerous or even troulile- sonie symptoms have occurred. All were operated on and dressed with veiy careful, antiseptic, Listerian pirecautions. Most of those operated on later than two years ago, have been seen or heard of, from time to time, amt no evidence has lieen forthcoming to show that the operation lias failed to pro- duce a radical cure in a single case. But, of course, the tests of numlier and duration have not been as extensively a}qdied as in the case of the suheuta- neous-wire operation. From the statistics of the operation' for the raitical cure of ruiitm-e collected from various sources, ditferent operators, and diverse methods—hut all agree- ing in a free dissection of jiarts, ligature and complete or partial remo\’al of the sac, and the use of catgut or other ligatures variously a}iplied, both with and without the carbolic spray and Listerian appliances—given liy M. Tilaniis, of Amsterdam, the i>ercentage of deaths is found to be eleven per cent. This is too high a fatality to render an operation genei’ally aeceptalile, in a condition which does not immediately or directly endanger the patient's life. The percentage of deaths after the use of my own method has been, as before said, at the rate of five and a half per cent, only, in sixteen cases. Further experience, and the careful empiloyment of antiseptics, will still further reduce this percentage. Wire Operation for Radical Care of Ingained Hernia after Stra.ngidntion.— Of such operations I have performed seven, with one death from pneumonia and delirium tremens, no serious symptoms having occurred m any of the other cases. The essential particulars of each case arc as follows;—