630 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIK-PASSAGES. in incarcerated criminals. The sane and unconfined suicide usually uses a razor or a knife; hut the insane suicide and the prisoner, from whom cutting implements are withheld, often construct weapons out of spoons or forks, frag- ments of glass, or other available objects. The individual who determines to commit suicide by cutting his throat, lias usually l>ecome impressed with the erroneous popular belief in the ne- cessary fatality of an extensive wound into the windpipe; while the source of immediate danger to life really resides in division of the cervical blood- vessels, the elasticity and mobility of which often protect them from direct injury. As a rule, too, the head is bent backward, to render the wind- pipe more prominent as the stroke is made. Hence, the sterno-mastoid muscles are advanced, and the large bloodvessels are pushed behind the ordinary range of the knife, especially if the cut be made high up ; and tlius the main portion of the deej) wound is in the air-jjassage. AVhen, however, the suicide, like Lord Castlereagh, who thrust a penknife through his carotid artery, is familiar with the anatomy of his neck, or when in his excitement he makes a sweeping cut, the great cervical blood-vessels are severed in the incision, and death takes place by hemorrhage and not by reason of any opening that has been made into the air-passage. Sometimes, however, hem- orrhage into the air-passage produces speedy death by suftbcation. The infrefpiency of wounds of the great vessels is furthermore attributed to the resistance of the cartilages, which prevents deep incision at the level of the lar}mx; and to spasmodic contraction of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles when the cut is at a lower level (Durham); while when the trachea is severed, the sudden escape of air from the lungs is supposed to deprive the arm of the full support of the thoracic muscles, so that the arm falls before the stroke has been completed. (Hinton, cited by Durham.) The wound of the integu- ment is usually from left to right, and more obliquely downward than trans- verse, the greater portion of the cut being upon the left side when the right hand has been used, as is the rule. The size of the external wound varies from little more than a puncture to a length of* sevei'al inches, even reaching from one sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle to the other. As a rule it is much larger than the wound in the air- passage, but sometimes it is much smaller, as in a case reported b}" Fine,' in which but a small external wound was made with the point of a penknife, while the thyroid cartilage was divided into eight portions. Incised wounds of the neck, above the hyoid bone, do not implicate the larynx, although the}' may penetrate the air-tract by opening into the pharynx or into the mouth. iN^evertheless, death by suffocation may ensue from occlu- sion of the larynx by the posterior portion of the divided tongue.^ Tlie hyo-thyroid membrane is the most frequent seat of lesion. "Wounds of this membrane, although, anatomically, wounds opening into the pharynx, must be discussed in connection with wounds of the larynx, because the epiglottis is frequently severed in the incision, sometimes in its free portion and sometimes at its attac-hcd portion. If not severed it is often wounded. In some instances the epiglottis escapes the cut, and the upper portion of the larynx is exposed to view uninjured. In a case of this kind, in an aged subject but recently (April, 1884) under observation in consultation with my colleague Dr. James Collins, at the German Hosi)ital, Philadelphia, the section had divided the tongue, the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles, both submaxillary glands, and the pharynx to within an inch of its entire circumfei’ence. In 1 Jour, (ie Med., Chir., I’harm., etc., 1790; quoted by Fisclier (]’itlia uiul Billroth’s Haiidbuch, Bd. iii. 1 Abtb. 3 Lief. S. 101). 2 See Durham’s case, Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. i. j). G87.