INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 28 wedged in an opening in the skull. Sufficient of the latter was cut away with the gouge to admit of the removal by tlie forceps of wliat was again supposed to he the whole of the foreign body, which proved to be shattered. Encephalitis set in, with high temperature and rapid pulse, until the ninth day, when, after a quiet night, the temperature fell to 97.5° F., and continued subnormal until the sixteenth day, when it suddenly rose to 104° F. Restlessness, delirium, flushed face, screaming, vomiting, convnlsions, and coma accompanied this high temperature. Death took place in twenty- four hours, and the post-mortem examination revealed a large abscess of the right frontal lobe, which had recently burst into the anterior horn of the lateral ventricle. In the abscess lay a piece of pencil one inch long. Mr. Ilulke goes on to say, that, “ Cutting away the bone by the gouge ettected such a loosening of the splinters of the pencil as to result in a fragment being left behind and he expresses regret that a trephine had not been used instead of the gouge. To this latter point of treatment I Avould call particular attention, viz., the use of tlie trephine to remove foreign bodies imbedded in the skull, since by it the end in view can he most easily attained, the whole extent of the injury i-evealed, and removal of all shattered bone, foreign bodies, etc., readily secured. In other respects, the treatment is the same as that for other severe, penetrating heacl-injuries, which has already been sufficiently described. The same misleading appearances of the external wound may be pi’esent in thrust woimds of the nose. Thus Dr. George Andersoid reports a case where, while fencing with walking canes, a man was struck a blow upon the left ala of the nose, which ])roduced a small puncture not larger than a leech- bite. Dying a few days afterwards with evident, acute brain disease, post- mortem examination revealed the brass ferule of a cane, lying close to the left side of the sella turcica, having readied this position by penetrating the body of the sphenoid bone. Although examined by a surgeon shortly after the accident, the nature of the injury was unsuspected. Fractures of the glenoid fossa from blows upon the chin have been reported. Sir Prescott Ilewett gives a drawing of one such case from a specimen. Dr. Lefevre (de Rochfort) re]»orts the case of a man, aged 22 years, in whom the right maxillary condyle was driven through the glenoid fossa into the skull, by a fall from a great height U])on the chin. The patient lived over five months, presenting no other symptoms than pains in the head, and some mental peculiarities which were thought to be simulated until an autopsy revealed the nature of the injury. Then a cerebral abscess, due to the pres- sure of the maxillary condyle, was found situated at the under surface of the right middle lobe of the brain.^ Resides such instances of direct violence, there are others in which, as long since pointed out b}' David® for other parts of the body, it is in reality the fracturing force. Suppose that a man falls from a great height upon his feet or buttocks ; what results ? Why, practically the condyles of his occipi- tal bone are struck violently through the medium of the spinal column— struck just as directly for mechanical purposes as if with a sledge-hammer. Again, a man falls from a height and strikes full upon the vault in some comparatively yielding substance, such as soft earth. The weight of the body again strikes, through the, medium of the spine, a violent blow upon the occipital condyles, thus fractui’ing them. The fact that such injuries are due to direct force may appear clearer when I say that a blow is merely ' Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science. 1851. ^ Gazette Hebdomadaire. Septetnbre, 1834. 3 In bis well-known Prize Essay, published in the name of his pupil, Bazille (Prix de I’Acad- emie Royale de Chirurgie, tome iv. p. 420. Paris, 1819). See, also, the same translated in Jus- tamond’s Surgical Tracts, edited by Houlston, page 239. London, 1789.