WOUNDS OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 635 Sometimes the epiglottis is carried away; sometimes it is split or simply wounded. The missile sometimes wounds the larynx after having passed through the face, the chest, or the u]:)per extremity ; and thus fractures of the jaw, clavicle, or humerus, and lacerations of the face, neck, and chest, become associated with gunshot -wounds of the air-passages.* The hemorrhage in these cases is usually much less than in those of incised ■wound, but the syncope therefrom perhaps more frequent and more protracted. The comparative infrequency with which the great cervical bloodvessels and nerves sustain injury, is attributed to their great mobility and elasticity. N'o mention of injury to the great bloodvessels or nerves is made in the description of any of the four specimens of gunshot wound of the larynx in the U. S. Army Medical Museum,^ while the absence of such injury is alluded to in the description of two. (Specimens 648 and 1440.) Wounds of internal origin may be lacerated, contused, or punctured. They are usually produced by foreign bodies with hard, sharp, and jagged edges, such as coins, fish-hooks, needles, nails, splinters, fish and meat bones, and pieces of glass. These wound the epiglottis, or penetrate or tear the larynx or the trachea.^ They may excite iiiEammatory tumefaction -with resultant cedema, or may irritate the nerve-tracts and excite spasm of the glottis, and may thus necessitate tracheotomy in either case. Witte^ narrates a case, reported by Surgeon Cotting, in which a dart Avas inhaled into the larynx, jioint upAvard. The continuous efforts of the injured lad to cough the foreign body out, gradually drove the point of the nail through the thyroid cartilage into the sheatli of the great bloodvessels, and death tblloAved in consequence of a Avound of the carotid artery. AAvkward and incautious attempts at intra-laryngeal surgery are respon- sible for a certain number of contused, lacerated, and even incised Avounds. Hemorrhagic oedema may be instantaneous after contusions and lacerations. The wounds resulting from a proper use of the knife, forceps, or galvano- cautery, are to be discussed in connection Avith the affections requiring such treatment. Ziemssen® relates a fatal case of oedema from spearing of the Avails of the laryngeal ventricle by the rib of a tobacco leaf, and another sudden death from the same cause, after a Avound produced by a pointed piece of bone. Cases of Avound from foreign bodies are sometimes promptly fatal by suffo- cation. In occasional instances, the injury has occurred by emesis during drunken- ness, or in the course of cerebral disease, the soup or gruel vomited haAung contained hard substances Avliich thus entered the air-passage.® BeigeF reports the case of a twenty-four year old female, Avith rupture of both vocal bands from their intersections at the arytenoid cartilages, and transverse rup- ture of the left band in addition, from continuous crying Avhen a baby. Inflammation follows the injury. Glldema may ensue, threatening suftb- cation, or spasm of the glottis Avith similar manifestations. Sytaptoins of Laryngeal and Tracheal Wounds.—Tlie symptoms of a Avound of the larynx or trachea arc usually sufliciently evident, save in some instances of contused Avounds, in Avhich the special manifestations do not promptly folloAV the receipt of the injuiy. 1 For cases illustrating these points, see Catalogue U. S. Army Medical Museum, Surgical Sec- tion, p. 477. Washington, 186(1. (Specimens 697, 1440, and 2021.) Oj). cit. ® See Foreign Bodies. ^ Arch. f. klin. Chir., S. 193. Berlin, 1877. ® Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, vol. xii. ]>. 80. ® Witte, loo. cit. Berlin, klin. Woch., 1868, S. 394 ; cited by AVitte.