648 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. Spasm of the muscles closing the glottis (lateral crico-arytenoids and central arytenoid), or paralysis of the muscles opening it (posterior crico-arytenoids), probably exists in many instances. Otherwise it is impossible to account for the fatal issue, even allowing that the cedema subsides after death. As elsewhere mentioned,^ the encroachment upon the breathing space has been seen laryngoscopically to be much less in some instances than would be cred- ited without inspection, although the swollen tissues cast such shadows upon the glottis as to render it impossible to pronounce as to its patency. These views have received additional support from recent observations^ of actual obstruction of the glottis by paralysis or spasm. Acute oedema of the larynx from acute laryngitis usually occupies the two aryteno-epiglottic folds, although instances occur in which but one is involved. The epiglottis may be involved likewise, or it may be the sole location of the effusion. The ventricular bands, the inter-arytenoid folds and the inner aspect of the arytenoid cartilage, are much less frequent seats of the process; and the vocal bands, with their intrinsic thyro-arytenoid muscles, are the least frequent seat. Occasionally the process is wholly subglottic. Qldema of the tracheal submucous tissue occasionally occurs, six instances of this condition having been collated by Sestier^ out of a total of one hundred and thirty two of oedema of the larynx. Infiltration into the base of the tongue and into the pharynx is a more frequent complication. Chronic cedema of the larynx occurs as an epiphenomenon in the chronic laryngitis of tuberculosis and syphilis, both ulcerative and non-ulcerative; in laryngeal perichondritis and chondritis of whatever origin; in the irrita- tive laryngitis due to morbid growths ; in carcinoma of the larynx or pharjmx; in glossitis; in the pharyngitis consecutive to tonsillitis and to malignant disease of the tongue, palate, pharynx, and oesophagus, whether implicating the larynx directly or not; in glandular and other cervical and mediastinal tumors; in thoracic and abdominal aortic aneurisms; and in fractures, wounds, and other injuries of the larynx, adjacent soft tissues, or great cervical bloodvessels. Under these circumstances the aflection becomes for the time more important than the disease which has occasioned it. It comes on gradually, rarely without prodromic manifestations, and may continue for weeks and months before it excites a suffocative paroxysm, even though it present great occlusion of the orifice of the larynx. This occlu- sion occurs so gradually that the system becomes accustomed to it; for the same amount of oedema in an acute case would be almost certain to produce intense dyspnoea, suffocative paroxysms, and passive pulmonary congestion. Chronic cedema is more frequently unilateral than acute oedema, the dis- eases of the larynx which produce it being themselves often unilateral. Subglottic cedema of the larynx is not frequent. The closeness with which the mucous membrane hugs the perichondrium below the vocal bands does not favor accumulations of fluid in that region. Still, there is some loose connective tissue in the lateral regions of the cricoid cartilage, where such accumulations can take place. The effusion is usually fibrinous ; rarely serous. It is usually independent of any effusion in the upper portions of the larynx; but the two conditions have been known to coexist.^ ' Diseases of the Throat, etc., 2d ed., p. 443. New York, 1879. 2 Gougenheim : Annales des Maladies du Larynx, etc., Juillet, 1883, p. 125. 3 Traite de I’angine laryng4e 03demateuse. Paris, 1852. * See Specimen in St. George’s Hospital Museum, London, described by Gibb (op. cit., p. 218).