4C6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. named sutures are often omitted, but I think that they secure a more perfect coaptation of the two divisions of the lip, I think it best to trust entirely to the sutures to hold the sides of the lip together, and to dispense with adhesive plasters, which are entirely unnecessary, and which are a source of discomfort and irritation. The sutures may he removed on the fourth or fifth day, and then the lip should he supported by a strip of adhesive plaster having a narrow isthmus across the lip, and a broad circular expansion over each cheek. If the support of the adhesive plaster he omitted after the removal of the sutures, there is reason to fear that the uniting medium may heconie attenuated, and that the middle portion of the lip may present an abnormal, sunken appearance. The adhesive plaster should he renewed from time to time, and its use should be continued for two or three weeks. In cases in wliich the fissure is broad, and its margins widely divergent tow^ards the free border of the lip, the edges may he pared h}' a semi-ellipti- cal incision on either side, the concavities looking towards each other, and ill this way the formation of a notch at the vermilion border may he avoided. (Figs. 936 and 937.) Fig. 936. Fig. 937. Operation for harelip with divergent margins. Or in cases in which the divergence is still greater, the method of ISIal- o-aio-ne, called by Agnew the method of Collis, may be adopted. This consists m leaving the fiaps"parcd from the margins of the fissure, attached to the vermilion border of the lip, reflecting them downw'ards so that their raw surfaces are brought into'- contact. These flaps are trimmed to a proper leiio-th, and are then secured by sutures, so as to form a prominence beneath the* inferior edge of the lip. (Figs, 938 and 939.) I have found this a most efiectual mode of guarding against the occurrence of a notch. After tbe wound has healed, and Avhen'the subsequent contraction has reached its full limit, if the prominence should continue, it may readily be reduced to its itroper level. In cases in which there is a marked inequality in the breadth of the two sides of the lip, the margin of the fissure on tbe narrower side may be pared three-fourths of the distance from the nose to the vermilion border, the inci- sion being then sloped outwards to the free margin of the lip, while on tbe broader side the incision does not extend quite to the vermilion border, and