CRURAL OR FEMORAL HERNIA. 1153 operation for tlie relief of strangulation, the intestine be found but little con- gested, and be not further injured ; and if the omentum, though partly removed, be healthy as respects the stump; and if the patient be a healthy subject, with neither sugar nor albumen in the urine, of sober habits, and with a condition of solids neither flabby nor corpulent, and especially if he be young (under 30 years of age), the risks of the operation of herniotomy (rendered absolutely necessary h}’ the irreducible strangulation) will he hut little, if at all, increased l>y the steps taken to produce a radical cure. It cannot be too closely borne in mind that the risks in all such cases spring from disease or injury of the bowel and mesentery, and to a less degree of the omentum. I liave not met with a single case in which pathological pro- cesses originating in the sac, except from erysipelas or pytemia, have been the cause of death, or even of seidous symptoms. It is absolutely necessary to make a very careful ius])ection of the bowel, mesentery, and omentum, which should always be drawn down and examined for several inches, after division of tlie stmiigulating tissue. The neck of the sac should be tied with stout carbolized and chromicized catgut at the place where the division of the stricture has taken })lace. Catgut, however, cannot be relied upon unaided for preventing the return of the rupture. It is not persistent enough when placed in contact with the living tissues, even with the carbolic dressing, to withstand tlie strain of the aponeurotic and muscular tension in connection with the inguinal canal. This is clearly seen after sutures of catgut have been applied to close apertures in the skin under the carbolic spray and dressing. After a day or two they become attenuated, thinned, frayed, and elongated, even under tlie simple elasticity of the skin- structures, and unless immediate union of the incision has taken place, the wound reopens. In one case of large scrotal hernia, in a child of 7 years, in which I used stout carholized and chrbmicized catgut instead of v'ire for closing the canal, tlie catgut gave way and the hernia was reproduced, altliough much thickening of the tissues at the dee}i ring was the imme- diate result. Catgut ligature, however, serves best for tying the isolated neck of the sac, there being, by its use, no necessity for subsequent distur- bance of the parts, and it is eflicient if supported by the wire ligature in the canal until union has occurred. Even more satisfactory results, however, have been obtained by the use of the tendons of tlie reindeer and kangaroo’s tail, which are much more persistent than catgut. Crural or Femoral Hernia. From the greater width of the pelvis in the female, and from the increased length and diminished strength of I’oupart’s ligament in that sex, this form of rupture, m women, is more common than the inguinal, in the proportion of about two to one. Anatomy op Crural Hernia.—In the lower half of the inguinal region, about half an inch below the inner third of I’oipiart’s ligament, is placed the opening through which a crural rupture passes out of the abdominal cavity. It is exposed by making an incision through the integuments along I’oupart’s ligament, a second down the inside of the thigh, aiul a third from the lower end of the latter horizontally across the front of the thigh, at the junction of the u})per and middle thirds. Tliis corresponds to the area of Scarpa’s triangle. The flrst layer of the superfleial fascia is composed of adipose tissue, and is continuous with that over the alidomen. The deep layer is denser and thinner, and is attached to Poupart’s ligament. VOL. V.—73