545 OPERATIONS ON THE JAWS. Removal of the Lower Jaw.—In removing portions of tlie lower ja-w, the incision should as far as possible be placed below its border, so that the cica- trix may be hidden. An incision from the median line to the angle, thus placed, wdll divide the facial artery immediately in front of the masseter muscle, and both ends sliould be at once secured with a ligature. The tissue of the face can now lie dissected up, and the cavity of tlie mouth opened by dividing the mucous membrane close to the gums, wlien any part of the body of the jaw can be removed by making a section w'ith the saw on each side of it. In making these sections, it is better not to complete one before the other is begun, because of the loss of resistance consecpient upon breaking the continuity of the bone; but each cut, being carried nearly through the bone wdtli the saw, may be conveniently tinished with the lione forceps. Should it be necessary to prolong the incision beyond the median line, and to remove the symphysis, care must be taken to guard against the falling back of the tongue by having a stout thread passed through it, upon which traction may be made. The mylo-hyoid muscle and mucous membrane inside the bone can then be divided, and the piece I’emoved, but wdienever ])Ossible the alveolus alone should be divided and the border of the jaw preserved. In removal of one-half of tire loiver jaw, it will be advisalde to divide the lower lip in the median line; for though it is possible to perform the operation without this, yet if the disease is at all serious, it unnecessarily complicates the operation to save the lip, which reunites readily enough. The incision should then be carried at right angles to that in the lip, along the lower border of the bone as far as the angle, and then upwards to near the lobule of the ear. This will necessarily divide the facial artery, but no important branches of the tiicial nerve, unless prolonged into the parotid gland. The tissues of the face and the masseter being dissected up from the bone or tumor, the jaw is to be divided at a convenient point, a tooth hav- ing been previously extracted. Tire scal[)el is then to he carried closely along the inner surface of the jaw, to divide the tissues fornung the floor of the mouth, and care must be taken not to detach or damage the sub-lingual gland. The cut end of the jaw, being grasped with the lion-forceps, can now be everted so as to bring the internal pterygoid muscle into view, and this must be dissected from the bone. Should the disease be of a non-malignant character, and not involve the articulation, the ramus of the jaw should be sawn across in preference to disarticulating, and even when the tumor encroaches very closely upon the joint, it may be possilfle to divide the neck of the condyle and tlie coronoid process separately, with bone forceps. In order to disarticulate the condyle, the soft tissues should be held out of the Avay with spatulas, when the jaw, being flrndy grasped with the lion-for- ceps, is to be depressed so as to bring the coronoid process forward, and to allow division of the insertion of tlie temporal muscle. This is sometimes rendered diflicult by an unusual length of the process, or by its being jammed against the malar bone by the bulk of the tumor. In this case it may be necessary to cut off the coronoid process with lione forceps, or to break it by force. The coronoid process having lieen cleared, the depression of the jaw from hefore backwards is to be continued, in order to throw the condyle forward; Imt great care must be taken not to rotate the jaw outwards, lest the internal maxillary artery should he stretched around the neck of the bone, and bo either torn or divided, when the hemorrhage would he severe and difficult to arrest. The condyle being made prominent, the knife is to be carefully applied over it, when the lione will start forward, tearing through and bringing away witli it a portion of the external pterygoid muscle. The knife must not be used to divide the muscular fibres, which bleed less if VOL. V.—35