60G INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. * See a paper, witli drawings, by Mr. II. T. Butlin. British Medical Journal, Feb. 18, 1882. Tlie prominent patches may be reduced by paring or by excision, but the disease tends to run so surely, tbougb slowly, into epithelioma, that early and complete removal of the affected portion of the tongue should be urijed upon the patient before positive evidence of cancer is developed. Ulceration of the tongue may be simple,'syphilitic, tubercular, or can- cerous. The SIMPLE ULCER is often caused by the irritation of a sharp tooth or the end of a cigar ; or it may be due to dyspepsia. It is small and superficial, and, unless duefo local irritation, is generally multifile, and is often found beneath the tongue. It is painful, and interferes with the movements of the tongue, but yields readily to treatment. The removal of the sharp corner of a decayed tooth with a file, or the employment of an amber mouth-piece, and the subsequent application of a stick of nitrate of silver to the ulcer, are gen- erally sufficient to effect a cure, wlien the cause is local. AVben it is consti- tutional, a brisk purge with the local use of the glycerine of tannin, or any astringent gargle, will be sufficient treatment. Syphilitic ulceration may aj)pear during the secondary stage of the dis- order along the edges of the tongue, and will almost always be found to have a corresponding white patch on the mucous membrane of the cheek. These ulcers have no induration at their bases, but when healed leave an irregular fissured border, which is very characteristic. A later form of ulceration is found in fissures of the dorsum, which leave irregular furrows in healing. The deep syphilitic ulcer is due to the breaking down of a gumma, and it is this kind which is apt to be confounded with cancerous ulceration. The ulcer is irregular, with everted edges, and presents a yellowish slough at its base, in which a varying amount of induration can be detected. It is often in the central portion of the tongue, whereas epithelioma is more commonly at the sides ; and careful investigation will show that a lump has been noticed in the organ before the ulceration commenced, and that the induration dimin- ishes as the ulcer grows; whereas in cancer the induration follows the ulcer, and steadily increases in extent. Still, it must be admitted that cases occur in which it is impossible to give an accurate diagnosis without having re- course to the tentative administration of iodide of potassium, and that even then it is not always possible to be sure that epithelioma has not begun in an old tertiary lesion. Kecourse may be had with advantage to the microscopic examination of scrapings from a doubtful ulcer, when epithelial elements characteristic of epithelioma may possibly be obtained.* In the treatment of syphilitic ulceration of the tongue, regard must be had to the stage of syphilis in which it occurs, and to the previous treatment undergone. In the superficial form of ulceration, mercury, in the shape of the bichloride or the iodide, is much more efiectual than the alkaline iodides alone, and should be had recourse to, unless the patient’s health has been shaken by previous courses of the drug. In the tertiary form of ulcerated gumma, iodide of potassium will certainly eflect a rapid cure if the ulceration is recent, provided it be given in sufficient doses, beginning with not less than 10 grains, thrice daily, and being increased to 30-grain doses, if smaller ones are not effectual. In all forms of sypliilitic ulceration the local application of mercury is useful, but it must be applied, not in the form of gargles, which are used and spat out at once, but as a lotion, to be held in the mouth for five minutes, so as to “ pickle” the tongue. A lotion containing the bichloride of