1009 OPERATIONS ON TUB KIDNEYS. tlie wound by the operator’s left hand, one of the fingers of which can at the same time be acting as a guide for the needle. The needle passed and withdrawn, the ligature silk should be divided, and onedialf of it should be tied tightly around the vessels, and the other half around the ureter. In doing tills, the ligatures should be pressed ivell inwards towards the front of the spine, so as to leave plenty of room lietween them and the hilus for divid- ing the pedicle. The kidney should now be drawn (piite out of the wound, a ]iroceeding which is sometimes very difficult, ljut whicli will be greatly facilitated by dragging the lower ribs forcilily upwards with the fingers of the left hand dipjied into the wound. Another ligature should be thrown round the whole of the pedicle, and securely and tightly tied before cutting the kidney free, which is now safely done by snipping throngh the ureter and vessels witli a pair of blunt-ended scissors. Any bleeding points should at once be seized, and ligatured or twisted, and it is very probable that when the wound comes to be fairly looked into, as it can after the kidney is cut away, some moderate-sized vessel will be found bleeding. Some aberrant branch of the renal; or one of the inferioi- supra-renal arteries; or the branch to the upper end of the ureter, or to the connective tissue of the loin—all In-anches from the renal trunk; or one of the parietal branches of tlie aorta, ina}' recpiire control. All the ligatures should be cut off short, and the pedicle dropped into the wound. A drainage-tube should be fixed in the wound, the edges brought together with waxed-silk or fishing-gut sutures, and whatever form of dressing is commonly employed for fresh wounds by the operator, shonld be applied. The patient shonld be ke])t in the recumbent position until healing is complete, and the drainage should be kept up for four oi’ five days. Heal- ing is, as a rule, rapid, though the drainage-track Avill require from three to four weeks to close perfectly, and it is well tliat during all this time com- plete quietude should be observed, and great care given to the diet, so that the other kidney may not be irritated by too great concentration of the urine. Some surgeons attach importance to the separate ligature of the artery, vein, and ureter; others, again, think it is unnecessary to ligature the ureter; and others, that the ureter had best Ije stitched to the external wound. The most important thing, Imw'ever, is to securely control the vessels ivithont putting too great a strain upon them in doing so. To attempt, in all cases, to get the kidney to the surfiice before ligaturing the vessels, Avould be to run a great risk of lacerating the coats of the artery or vein beyond the point at which it is possible to a|»ply a ligature, and the advantage of leaving the ureter untied has yet to be proved. In no case is it advisable to excise the last rib; and where the costo-iliac space is very narrow, some other form of operation—-not the lumbar—should be adopted. The dangers of the Inndjar operation are, that (1) the peritoneum or the colon may be torn o[)en ; (2) too great strain on the vessels of the pedicle may cause their laceration, or the ligatures may slip after the kidney has been cut off; (3) the kidney may he broken in the manipulations required for its se})aration and Avithdrawal. All these accidents have occurred, but they are not necessarily fatal. Laceration of the kidnc\y requires the control of hemor- rhage l)y ]»ressure, and l)y hastening the completion of the removal: a great safeguard against liemorrhage fi’om laceration is the ap}»lication of the double ligature before attempting to withdraw the kidney. If the ligatures have slipped, or tail to control the vessels of the pedicle, or if trouldesome hemorrhage from any source arises, it can be best managed by the applica- tion of one of Wells’s large ovariotomy forceps, Avhich should'lie left in the wound, and will, in addition, act very well instead of a. drainage-tube. If the colon be torn, the rent should be closetl by suture; if the peritoneum is