885 SUB-PARIETAL CONTUSION AND RUPTURE OF VISCERA. There is little room to doubt that in these cases either the gall-bladder or one of the biliary ducts was ruptured, that for a time all the bile secreted was poured into a cavity formed by inflammatory adhesions, and that ultimately the proper channel became re-established. This favorable termination seems to me to be explained by the light of Sir Benjamin Bi’odie’s experiments on ligature of the ductus choledochus. He found that the pressure of the ligature on the bile-duct was unlike in its etfects to that on an artery or vein; that it did not cause adllesion of the apposed surfaces; but that a mass of organizable lymph was effused, and adhered to the duct above and below the seat of liga- ture, as well as to the surrounding parts. Thus a cavity was formed in which lay loosely the ligature which had been detached by ulceration of the duet. Into this cavity the bile could be made to How from the oritice above, and out of it by the oritice below the point of ulceration, so that, though the continuity of the biliary duct was destroyed, a good bile-passage was restored. Sir Ben- jamin Brodie remarks that the same thing happened when two ligatures had been applied at some distance from each other on the common duct. Tiede- mann and Gmelin obtained similar results on dogs; in their experiments the bile-passage was re-established in a period varying from thirteen to twenty- six days after the ligature was applied. The gall-bladder may be completely torn away from all its connections, with- out immediate death being caused, and without the escape of its contents:— Dr. Francis Ogston,' of Aberdeen, has recorded tlie case of a man wliose belly was forcibly knelt upon. The gall-bladder was found, full of bile, lying loosely in the abdo- men near the umbilicus, in front of the small intestines, having been broken away from the cystic duct close to its origin. A thin piece of the liver, one inch in breadth and corresponding to the cystic hollow, was tirmly adherent to the surface of the gall- bladder. The patient died on the third day after the accident, from hemorrhage, ten pounds of blood being in the peritoneal cavity. Ogston records a second case, in which the gall-bladder was torn away with part of the liver, in a very similar manner ; but in this instance the injured viscera protruded through a wound in the abdominal parietes, and death was instantaneous. In Dr. Walter Fergus’s* well-known case, the gall-bladder was ruptured above, opposite tbe junction of the hepatic with the cystic duct, and the liver was also lace- rated ; yet the patient was so well on the fifth day after the accident that he was con- sidered convalescent, and allowed to get up ; two days subsequently he was sinldenly seized with the symptoms of acute peritonitis, and died on the ninth day. At the autopsy, the gall-bladder was found empty, the peritoneal cavity contained a large quantity of bile, and peritonitis was general. The wound in the liver was undergoing re[iair, and it is possible that, had absolute rest been enjoined for a longer period, extravasation of bile might have been prevented by adhesions, and recovery might have ensued. The commonest scat of rupture of the bile-organs would seem to be some part of the cystic duct. PolamP and Wolffs have recorded cases of rtipture of the common bile-duct, and M. Campaignac® a case of longitudinal ru})ture of the left branch of the hepatic duct; while Bryant gives, on the authority of Hr. Sutton, of the London Hospital, a case of transverse rupture of the hepatic duct, one-rpuirter inch aljove its junction with the cystic duct. Wlien the gall-bladder is filled with gall-stones, a blow over it is very prone to cause its rupture. Hoffman relates the case of a farmer’s wife who was killed by a blow from her husband in the left liypochondrium. The gall-bladder was tilled with calculi and freely torn. Tie also cites another similar case of a woman who was killed by a blow from a stick. Dr. Maclachan® gives the ' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Review, vol. xxxix. p. 193. Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xxxi. p. 47. * Fothergillian Prize Essay. i flaz. Med., 1830. ^ .Journal Ilebdorn., t. ii. p. 210. 1829. 6 Med. Gaz., vol. xxxvii. p. 9(J8.