INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 920 witli, the greater will be the chance of ultimate recovery.” I would, how- ever, advise the reader to peruse for himself l,)r. Otis's very exhaustive and masterly summary of tlie subject.^ Penetrating ^younds of the Liver.—Punctured and incised wounds of the liver are much less frequent than subcutaneous ruptures of that organ. In the annals of Surgery about sixty cases of stab-wound of the liver are definitely described, and Ludwig INlayer has collected twenty-one instances of recovery from such injuries. They rarely come under the notice of the surgeon. The surgeon, however, oecasionalh' inflicts such wounds upon his ]iatienfs, as in the treatment of hydatid cysts and abscesses of the liver. Hemorrhage is one of the chief dangers, hut there is good reason for thinking that in the case of clean incised wounds it is controllable, and has been overrated. Slight and superficial wounds are followed by recovery, hut wheiudeep, and if attended by any large amount of hemorrhage into the abdominal cavity, they are s})eedily fiital. Pgviptorns.—These are hemonliage, and perhaps a discharge of bilious matter from the wound—or evidence of internal hemorrhage—accompanied by a dull pain, which, according to Boi'er, extends to the shoulder and larynx if the convex surface be wounded, and an acute })ain about the ensiform cartilage if the under surface be injured ; vomiting, liiccough, and labored hi’eathing; followed b}" occasional rigors, tympanites, heartburn, and, at a still later period, by more or less delirium. If the patient survives many hours, the functions of the stomach and bowels are disturbed ; and if general hepatitis occurs, jaundice of the skin and hile-pigmented urine appear, and great itching of the surface will follow. Diagnosis.—The position and direction of the wound will greatly assist in arriving at a correct diagnosis. If the weapon have entered between the lower intercostal spaces of the right side, the liver must he involved, unless the wound be limited to the parietes; and if the wound he below the ribs and its course horizontal, the liver may he imjdicated, as the organ may extend to a very low position on the right, owing either to enlargement or displacement. The prognosis is veiy unfavorable if the wound be a severe one; as has been stated, slight wounds are often recovered from. The treatment does not difier from that described for rupture of the liver; the wound of the parietes adds hut little to the danger, and in comparison with the visceral injury is unimportant. If the external wound he large, it should he held together by sutures; hut if bile or blood be escaping through it, it must he kept open. Should peritonitis occur, it must be treated as already described. Gunshot wounds of the liver vary from slight groovings, or laceration of the peritoneal investment onl}', to long |)erforations and lacerations complicated with the presence of splinters of ribs, or fragments of clothing, or other foreign bodies; from slight fissures oi’ limited contusions, to extensively pulpefied or mangled ruptures. These ditiercnces de})end greatly upon the velocity of the projectile, as well as upon its size and direction. At close ranges, the missile inflicts great destruction, and mangling appears to be the all l)ut uniform efiect of even small carbine or pistol shots upon the liver. (Otis.) The first dangers of these Avounds are shock and primary hemor- rhage, and if the patient escapes these, he will he likely to die of secondary hemorrhage, ]ieritonitis, or abscess of the liver. Such injuries, however, even when very serious, are not necessarily tatal. I)r. Otis records 26 recoveries ' M«d. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion. Part Second, Surgical Volume, pp. 123-128.