512 INJURIES AND DISEASES OE THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. left, fol'cing back the epiglottis when the sublingual muscles have been divided. All hemorrhage having been checked, the two halves of the jaw ai’e to be brought together with a piece of stout silver wire. This may be passed from before backwards readily enough through the hole in one side of the jaw, but it is not easy to pass it back again on the opposite side, unless a loop of thin wire be passed from before backwards through the hole already made, into which the end of the wire can be bent, and thus drawn forward. The two halves of the jaw should be brought into close and correct apposition, and the ends of the wire twisted and brought up beneath the lip. The lip is then to be brought together with hare-lip pins, and a tine silk stitch in the mucous membrane, but care should be taken to leave the lower part of the incision open, so that there may be a free drain for the saliva and discharges from the mouth. In removing the wire from the jaw, at the end of three weeks or more, it will be found convenient to cut the wire close to the jaw on each side, and then with a blunt hook to pull out the loop from behind. When the disease involves the anterior part of the tongue, it is by no means uncommon to find the tongue adherent to the incisive portion of the jaw, and the bone more or less infiltrated, as shown by the loosening of the teeth and softening of the bone. Under these circumstances, it is necessary after clearing the bone to apply the saw on each side of the diseased portion, as far from the median line as may be neeessary to reach healthy bone. After removal of the por- tion of bone with the diseased tongue, it is quite useless to attempt to wire the remaining portions of the jaw together, since it is impracticable to draw them in apposition at the time. And yet it will be found, in a few weeks, that as the wound heals the two sides of the jaw are gradually approximated by the action of the muscles, and will eventually in many cases unite firmly.^ In all operations for removal of the tongue, it is well to lie prepared for unexpected hemorrhage, which may be very urgent. Blood collecting in the pharynx may embarrass the breathing very much, and, b}' the conges- tion produced, keep up venous bleeding. Under these circumstances it is well to perform laryngotomy at once, and if blood bas entered the lungs, as is very apt to happen when the tongue is dragged forward, to suck out the blood through the tube. I have twice seen patients rescued from imminent danger of suffocation in this way, and ultimatel}^ make good recoveries. A^ith the view of obviating all risk of suffocation during tbe operation, and also to facilitate the administration of the anpesthetic, recourse may be had, before commencing the operation of removal of the tongue, to laiyngo- tomy or tracheotomy, and the use of Trendelenburg'’s tampon. This consists of an India-rubber tube, which covers the tracheal canula, and which can be inflated so as to plug the trachea and prevent the admission of blood; but an equally satisfactory method is to plug the pharynx with a sponge to which a string has been attached. A flexible tube attached to the ordinaiy tracheal canula allows of the ready administration of chloroform vapor. I have employed this method on one occasion, and have seen it employed on others, but it appears in most cases to be an unnecessary conqilication. The after-treatment of cases of removal of the half or entire tongue, con- sists in maintaining the strength of the patient by judicious feeding, and in keeping the moutli sweet. Feeding is best accomplished with the ordi- nary earthenware feeder, having a spout to which an India-rubber tube may be fitted, if it is necessary to carry the food very far back. In this way, suffi- cient milk, beef-tea, and brandy may be administered until the patient pre- For cases, see Lancet, vol. i. 1876.