1095 OPERATIONS ON THE KIDNEYS. of the kidney should he cut into with a probe-euded, straiglit bistoury; then, Avith a scooping movement of the finger introduced through the incision, the stone, unless a branched or very large one, can he raised to the surface of the parietal ivound on the point of the finger. Or a pair of forceps might be passed into the kidney by the side of the knife, and the stone seized and Avithdrawn. The finger is, hoAvever, much to be preferred, and if the incision is small, as it ought to be, the finger serves the purpose of plugging the renal Avound, Avhilst it lacerates the renal tissue to the necessary extent. By this plan the hemorrhage is minimized, and the I’ent made Avith the finger heals as readily as the cut. When ecpially com^enient to reach the stone, it is much best to open the secreting structure, and not the pelvis of the kidney; a Avound in the former heals better than one in the latter, and the chance of a uri- nary fistula is therefore much less. If the calculus be large and branched, it may possibly be recpiisite to break it up into tAvo or more fragments, and remove the fragments separately. I have knoAvn this done in a suppurating kidney, hut it is not probable that a stone Avill attain such a size as to recpiire breaking before remoAml, Avitliout having in its groAvth more or less destroyed the kidney-structure. A stone, one ounce or less in Aveight, has been removed entire from a kidney Avhich was not markedly enlarged, nor the seat of advanced suppuration.* The after-treatment is very simple : a drainage-tube should be left in the back part of the Avound, and the j-est should be closed by sutures. For a time, of course, theAvhole or greater part of the urine secreted by the injured kidney Avill be discharged through the loin, but, after gradually diminishing, this may he expected to cease altogether in from three to four Aveeks. These lumbar Avounds usually heal very quickly. In both nephrotomy and nejdiro- lithotomy, some siinjile dressing, such as lint soaked in terebene and oil, or spread Avith boracic ointment, should be applied over the AVound, and the drain- age-tube should pass through this and be covered Avith a thick pad of absorbent cotton-Avool, or Lister’s gauze (I have used both, and Avith equally satisfac- tory results), retained in place by a light bandage. The dressings Avill require frequent changing, as they soon become saturated Avith the urine; to keep the bedding dry, a large pad of finely poAvdered German moss-peat should be placed beneath the loin, to receive and absorb the urine, as it readily does. The dangers of nephrolitliotorny are not great, as far as we can judge from present experience. The operation hitherto has, it appears, been uni- formly successful, but the number of cases as yet recorded is but small. (1) Hemorrhage from the Avounded kidney is not likely to be serious if the plan above suggested be folloAved. There may perliaps be a formidable- looking gush on first dividing the tissue, as in Mr. Marcus Beck’s case, fmt compression Avith the finger or a siionge Avill soon check it. (2) Cellulitis may folloAV the operation, but Avith due jirecaution as to antiseptic cleanli- ness ami drainage, this Avill almost certainly be escaped. It may, hoAvever, occur, and I am aAvarc of one case in Avhich extensiA’e suppurative cellulitis folloAved an ex[)loratory incision in search of a renal calculus; pus burroAved doAvnwards to the pelvis, and upAvards until the abscess bui-st into the lung, and though the patient ultimately recovered, he nearly lost his life. In this case there ha<l been great liberty taken Avith the avouikI, and many hands had been introduced for the purpose of feeling the kidney. The kidney hoAvcAmr Avas not cut into, and therefore ne[»hrolithotomy cannot be properly charged Avith the com]dication, Avhich Avas only such as might hdloAV any deeji wound in the loin, Avhether addressed to tlie colon, or kidney, or neither. Rennet May, Trans. Clin. Society, vol. xvi. London, 1883.