INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 170 its fellow, completed anteriorly by the lachrymal and nasal process of the supe- rior maxillary. Here is seen the vertical groove in the os nngnis that lodges the laclirymal sac, and becomes below the bony nasal dnct. The lower wall, made up chiedy by the orbital plate of the superior maxillary, slopes a little downwards and outwards. In it is seen the groove for the infra-orbital nerve. The outer wall, supplied by the malar and sphenoid, is very solid, sloping outwards, and giving divergence to the orbits. The scope of vision thus afforded, supplemented "by rotatory movements of the head, enables us to sweep the horizon with our view. Hear the apex of the cavity we find two large fissures, the sphenoidal and spheno-maxillary, giving passage to vessels and nerves; the former com- municating with the cavity of the cranium, and the latter with the zygomatic fossa. The motor nerves that supply the extrinsic and intrinsic muscles of the eye, the ophthalmic branch of the fiftli nerve, some filaments of the sympathetic, and the ophthalmic vein, all pass into the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. The infra-orbital artery and nerve pass througb the spheno-maxillary fissure, into the groove in the floor of the orbit. In blows on the temple, blood may find its way through this fissure, and give rise to ecchymosis of the conjunctiva. I once saw periostitis following the ex- traction of an upper molar tooth, the pus passing through this fissuie into the orbit, and pointing at the lower and outer margin, b^elow the angle of the eyelids. In fractures of the base of the skidl, tlie crack often passes through the sphenoidal fissure, and gives rise to conjunctival ecchymosis. It may likewise traverse the optic foramen, contusing, tearing, or compi’ess- ing the nerve, and giving rise to serious disturbances of sight. A sharp instrument may be thrust through the sphenoidal fissure with fatal injury to the brain. A royal example, in the case of Henry the Second, of France, is quoted by authors. The size of the orbital cavity, with its fissures and foramina, is perceptibly diminished by the periorbita that lines it throughout, continuous at the base with the pericranium, and at the apex with the dura mater. The periorbita is thin and somewhat loosely connected with the bones, being easily sepa- rated by extravasations of blood or collections of pus. In close relation to the orbit, are several cavities in bones, the lai’gest of which is the antrum in the superior maxillary. A thin translucent plate of bone intervenes between it and the socket. High up, it opens into the nose, and is lined throughout by mucous membrane. The antrum is large enough to hold a musket- ball, and instances are on record, in which bullets have lodged there for years. The frontal sinus, at the upper and inner part of tlie orbit, communicates freely with the superior meatus of the nose, through the infundibulum. The numerous air cells, in each mass of the ethmoid, are separated from the socket only by a thin plate of bone, the os planum. (Fig. 842.) Tumors and accumulations of various kinds in these cavities, are likely to encroach upon the orbit, dislodge the eye, and cause exoph- Fig. 842. Frontal section of an adult skull through the middle of the orbits. 0. Orbit ;iV. ]Naris ; A,m. Antrum maxillare ; Cranial cavity. (After Merkel.)