INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 11 great as to be despaired of. The sim[)lest diet and quietude should he en- forced, a watch being kept for those slight signs of meningeal irritation which have been mentioned. The bowels should he kept freclj opened. Should persistent headache with slight fever be detected, I should aclvise in the I’ohust—and I would not draw the line too strictly—a rigid anti-phlogistic regimen and wet-cupping, or even venesection from a large orifice, the patient sitting upriglit. In cases Avhere these measures seem contra-indicated, a full dose of calomel, followed h}^ purgatives, low diet, and arterial sedatives, should he resoi'ted to. Calomel in small doses should he exhibited sufficiently often to touch the gums in either class of cases. Cold to the head, and large doses of the bromides, are indicated, if the cephalalgia he marked. The plan of treatment suggested is opposed by some surgeons, upon the plea that many cases really prove to he pytemic, and that in that event it would be prejudicial. I would ask how many cases of pytemia from head injury recover under any plan of treatment ? Doubtless some cases where the advice here given is followed, will be treated with unnecessary activity, but I maintain that no permanent harm will result, wdiile some lives may be saved. I am not one of those who think that the loss of a few ounces of blood is a serious matter, having demonstrated, experimentally and clinically, its power of cutting short traumatic inilam- mation in its early stages. (Jnee again, I only recommend these measures in the incipient stages of meningitis following bone contusion. TIewett con- siders that the cases whicli do well under this treatment, are really instances of meningitis “ beginning not in the dura mater, but in the visceral layers of the brain, and dependent upon . . . concussion.” lie may be right, but I think that the mere recovery of such cases is no valid argument against the correctness of the diagnosis. As the earliest symptoms indicative of commencing suppuration between the dura mater and bone, are those of incipient meningeal irritation, they should bo so treated, especially as death results in such instances by extension of the inflammation to the meninges and the brain itself. I cannot help believing that in some instances the for- mation of pus between the dura, mater and the bone is prevented. Suppose that the case is not seen until intraci-anial suppuration lias taken [dace, what shall the surgeon do? If, as mentioned under the head of diagnosis, there is a reasonable probability of the presence of a subcranial or subdural ab- scess, he should trephine at once, and with a large instrument. Pott’s success was due to early, bold operation, and is exqdicable liy the tact that in his cases tlie diseased [U’oeess was circumscribed, that is, was inci]dent.^ There is no reason why similarly favorable cases should not lie met with nowadays, with equally proni[)t operative interference. Knowing as we now do that Pott’s local symptoms arc merely the signs of a periostitis or osteo- myelitis, and that cerebral localization can at least inform us that no localized subcranial suppuration at the site of injury can [>ossibly account for the symp- toms in certain instances, the tre[diine will be withheld in many cases that were uselessly operated upon in the past, and in some rare instances I believe that in tlie future the instrument will be used to evacuate pus from beneath an externally healthy bone, far distant from the injury and from the local signs of bone contusion. What if no [>us between the dura mater and the bone be found? If the membrane [)nlsatc normally, nothing beyond abandonment of the operation remains, unless the sym[>toms are such as would warrant puncture of the brain-substance. If the dura mater bulge up into the tre- phine-hole—perhaps even to the level of the external bone—and be without pulsation, it should be cautiously incised to give vent to subjacent pus. Some- Polt, Injuries of the Head, |)p. 63-107. 1768.