INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TUE AIR-PASSAGES. G58 manifestations have been attributed to cedema in some instances, and to dis- placement of fragments in others. The symptoms of incomplete fracture appear to be very slight in com- jiarison to those of complete fracture. Although there is no absolute displacement of fragments, crepitus is said to have been elicited in some instances, when the parts were pressed u}ion for the purpose. Diagnosis.—The history of wound or other injury, and the manifestations described as the symptoms, will indicate the character of the lesion. If the injury be the result of a direct lilow or a fall, the neck may be flattened anteriorly; if the result of choking or other form of strangulation, it may be flattened laterally. Some evidence of bruise, contusion, or external wound is usually observed. Ecchymosis is commonly present, with tumefaction externally. Early swelling is attributed to extravasated blood ; late swell- ing to inflammation. Abnormal mobility of the cartilages can usually be detected on manipulation. In sei^ere lesions there may be deformity from overriding of the fragments. In others, there may be no displacement at all. (Gibb.) Crepitation ma}^ be produced by manipulation of the fragments in some instances; but care must be taken not to be deceived by the crepitation normally produced by lateral movements of the larynx, or by slight pressure against the vertebral column. The horn of the right cartilage may be anomalously inclosed in the lateral thyro-h^mid ligament,^ or may be entirely absent.^ Prognosis.—The prognosis is always grave, especially so when the cricoid cartilage has suffered fracture. But two instances of recovery after fracture of the cricoid seem to he on record.^ In the entire 28 instances of fracture of this cartilage tabulated by Durham,^ not one patient recovered. "\Tagner’s cases® furnish additional examples. The fatal result is probably attributable to the great contusion and laceration sustained by the bloodvessels, nerves, and other soft parts, in an injury sufliciently severe to fracture this very strong cai’tilage. Fractures of the thyroid, cartilage are usually fatal, only 10 patients having recovered in Durham’s list of 30 cases of fracture of that cartilage only, and 2 in 4 cases of fracture of the thyroid complicated with fracture of the hyoid bone. Guanck’s ease® also terminated fatally. A patient referred to my clinic from the surgical out-door department of Jefferson College Hospital, and placed under care of the clinical chief, recovered with a weak voice—crepitation being reported to have been as distinct four months after the injury as it had been on its receipt.'^ Harrison® likewise reports a case which terminated favorably. In Treulich’s case of recovery,® there had been fracture of the thyroid and double fracture of the cricoid, with rupture of the trachea. It is i)resumable that the rejiair is by fibro- cartilage as in other wounds of the same parts. Severe cases often terminate fatally at once, or within a few hours ; usually by suffocative apnoea from extravasation of blood beneath the intra-laiyngeal mucous membrane—hemorrhagic oedema—or from displacement of fragments occluding the calibre of the respiratory tract, or from accumulation of blood within it. Extensive injuries to the superjacent soft parts, or to other por- tions of the body, help to exhaust the forces of the patient, and render the prognosis still more gloomy. * Luschka, Virchow’s Arciiiv, 19 Marz, 1868, S. 478. 2 Cohen (Mutter Lectures), Phila. Med. Times, April 12, 1873, p. 435 ; op. cit., p. 609. ® Treulich, loc. cit., cited hy Ashhiirst (Principles and Practice of Surgery, 3d ed. 1882, p. 351) : The cricoid was fractured in two places, isolating tlie anterior median segment; Masucci, Arch. Ital. di Lar., Anno I., 1881-2, p. 108. * Op. cit., 3d edit., vol. i. p. 749. ® Wien. med. Woch., 1 Sept. 1883. ® Lancet, June 1, 1882. ® Loc. cit. ’ Sajous, Archives of Laryngology, July, 1882. 2 Loc. cit.