INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 940 are to be drawn tiglitly outwards, so as to appose the intestine to tlie internal surface of the external wound. The thread may be withdrawn five or six days after, and this is to he accomplished by cutting one end close to tlie parietes and gently pulling the other. Some prefer cutting both ends off after fixing them, and leaving the suture to find its way into the bowel if it can. b. Reyhard's Modification—An ordinary sewing-needle is armed with a double thread, the free extremity of which bears, instead of a knot, a little roll of linen, one- fourth of an inch long. The thread is greased with oil or cerate. The suture is com- menced by piercing from within outwards the edge of the wounded gut, near one of the angles, drawing the thread through, and leaving the roll of linen within the intestine; then the edges of the wound are to be brought together, and both sides pierced at once, and the suture continued as in the ordinaiy process, excepting tliat tlie points of suture are to be nearer together, and tightened a little more. In order to fasten the threads at the termination, the needle is to be passed back under the last stitch but one ; then one of the threads is to be cut, and the last point of suture to be finished with a single thread ; then the two threads are tied together, and the ends cut off close to the wound. The ordinary method is the one generally adopted, and many experiments have been performed with this suture by Moebius, Shipton, Brewer, Thompson, Sir A. Cooper, Travers, Reybard, Petrequin, and others. Dr. Gross performeil 17 experiments with this suture. In 2 the bowel was wounded transversely (in one completely divided) ; in 12 the wound was longitudinal, varying from half an inch to six inches ; in 3 the wound was oblique. All tbe animals experimented on recovered, but 3 of them were killed too soon after the operation to allow of any positive conclusion as to the ultimate effects ; in 8 the needle was carried through the wliole thickness of the bowel, and in 5 the everted mucous membrane was pared off on a level with the surrounding surface; in 8 the suture was inserted through the fibrous lamella, or between the muscular and mucous coats ; in 1 through all the layers of the tube, except the peritoneal. Of these three methods, that of introducing the suture through the cellulo-fibrous lamella is the least objectionable, as it enables the serous surfaces to be brought into the most accurate apposition. The earliest date of passage of the thread into the bowel was on the thirty-fifth day ; in other instances it was found partially adherent on the twenty-second, twenty-eighth, and thirty-first days. Gross, as w’ell as Reybard and Petrecjuin, dwells upon the importance of taking the stitches veiy close to each other, and of drawing them firmly in order to insure union. M. Moreau-Boutard has pro- posed to sew wounds of the intestine by excising the everted mucous membrane, and bringing tlie peritoneal coat and the exposed submucous tissue into contact, and he effects this object by passing the suture through the submucous cellular tissue. Dr. Gross gives six cases where the glover’s suture was used, two only of which were fatal. Guy de Chauliac mentions a successful case in which he sewed intestines “ vulnerata secundum longum et latum cum sutura pelliperiorum.” Fallopius records a similar case. Garengeo9 mentions a patient operated on by Guerin on whom this suture was used, but whose death took place on the third day. Reybard read before the Academic de Medecine the case of a man, aged twenty-eight, who labored under a carcinomatous tumor of the sigmoid flexure of the colon ; having diagnosed it, he cut into the abdomen, removed three inches of the intestine affected with the disease, tied the arteries of the mesocolon, and united the extremities of the divided bowel with the glover’s suture; the suture was cut short, the intestine replaced in the abdomen, and the wound in the parietes sewed with three stitches. On the tenth day a copious evacuation was passed per anum, and on the thirty-eighth day the patient was pronounced well. After the lapse of six months, symptoms of cancerous disease of the intestine again set in, and the patient died twelve months after the operation. No autopsy could be obtained. Another remarkable case of recovery is quoted by Guthrie, viz., the case of Richard Cain, under the care of Mr. Jenkins, of Gosport. c. Method of Bertrandi, or suture “ d points passh,” a variety of the continued suture. This has been recommended by Boyer, Sanson, Roux, Patissier, Lombard, > Traite des Operations, etc., 2e M., tome i. p. I9I. Paris, 1731.