MALFORMATIONS OP THE SKULL. 135 (1) Occipital Region.—The hole in the occipital bone through which the mass protrudes, is in or near the ntidclle line, and may be above or below the protuberance. If above, it may blend with the front fontanelle, and if below, with the foramen magnum, or in addition with the cleft for a spina bifida. The tumors in this situation are apt to lie large and pendulous, of pyriform shape, and pedunculated. Chauvier records a case, occurring in this locality, in which the mass hung from the back of the head to the loins.* In some cases the whole or the greater part of the occipital bone may be absent; or, if present, it may show a complete median cleft. Occipital encephaloceles may contain portions of the posterior cerebral lobes or of the cerebellum. A hydrencephalocele in the upper part of the bone would probably contain part of the posterior lobe or lobes of the cerebrum, and the distended posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle; in the lower part of the lione, the whole or part of the cerebellum with a dropsical fourth ventricle. In large masses, both the cerebrum and cerebellum may be concerned. (2) Frontal Region.—The tumors usually appear at or about the root of the nose, the protrusion leaving the skull between the cribriform plate and the frontal bone, and appearing externally between the frontal and nasal bones. In a few cases the protrusion has been between the halves of the frontal bone,^ and in still fewer in the lateral parts of the bone.® The anterior lobes are the parts of the brain involved, with, in eases of hydrencephalocele, the anterior cornua of the lateral ventricles. Tumors in this site are usually smaller than those on the occiput, and present few, if any, of those surface divisions so commoji in the tumors of the latter situation. The skin covering them is also very trequently red and vascular, so that these frontal tumors have often been mistaken for vascular growths. Enormous tumors have, however, been met with in this locality,* but they ai’e rare when compared with the frequent occurrence of such large growths over the occiput. Sides and Base of the Skull.—Congenital protrusions have occurred at various parts of the sides of the skull, chiefly about the lateral fontanelles or in the lines of sutures. Mr. Hutchinson® quotes a case occurring at the an- terior fontanelle, and Dr. Steavenson® a median protrusion through a cleft extending from the posterior fontanelle to the alveolar process of the jaw. At the base of the skull, the hole has been found between the ethmoid and sphenoid liones, or between the sphenoid and its greater wing, or through the sphenoid itself. Tumors issuing from such apertures have appeared in the pharynx or in the mouth, have even projected beyond the mouth, liave occupied the orbit and displaced the globe, or have escaped by the spheno- maxillary fissure. Ilydrencephaloceles about the base have been composed of the temporo-sphenoidal lolies distended by the inferior cornua or the liase of the tliird ventricle, or by the infundibulum and })ituitary body pushed down by fluid distension occurring in the last-named ventricle. Into the etiologg of tliesc afiections, the limits of this article will not allow me to enter. A vast number of theories have been advanced, the most gene- rally received being one that explains the protrusion by the existence of an intra-uterine hydrocephalus. The whole matter is well discussed by Heineke.^ ^ Quoted by Sir Prescott Hewett, loo. oit., p. 119. 2 See a case, for instance, reported by Mr. Christopher Heath. Trans, of Path. Soo. London, vol. xvi. p. 10. 1865. ® Case by Robt. Adams, Dublin Journ. of Med. and Chem. Science, vol. ii. 1833. Other cases are (quoted. See a case reported by Niemeyer (De Hernia Cerebri Congenita. Halae, 1833.), in which the tumor reached the clavicle. ® Illustrations of Clinical Surgery, vol. ii. Plate 46. ® Trans. Clinical Soc. Lond., April, 1881. ’ Pitha und Billroth’s Handbuch, Band iii. Chirurgische Krankheiten des Kopfes.