SUB-PARIKTAL, CONTUSION AND RUPTURE OF VISCERA. 871 • and if the viscns is not much distended at the time, extravasation into the peritoneal cavity may not occur; otherwise the escape of some of the con- tents is all but inevitable, and death from intense peritonitis must follow. It is improbable that complete rupture of eitlier the stomach or bowel, from contusion, ever takes place uidess the viscus is more or less distended ; and tliere are no facts to lead us to suppose that complete ruptui-e Avithout an external wound has ever been otherwise than fatal. Ruptures of the gastro- intestinal tubes arc more fatal than wounds of the same part. Symptoms.—The immediate results of rupture of the gasti-o-intestiual tube are not the same in all cases; thus, in one instance, extreme collapse, sudden and excessive meteorism, intense suffering, and rapid death within an hour or tAvo, Avill be Avitnessed ; Avhilst in another the patient will be able to Avalk, or Avill l)e comparatively free from pain for a long time or alto- gether, and death may be delayed for three or four days. Thei'c are certain features common to rupture of the stomach and rupture of the intestine, and it Avill save repetition to consiLler both classes together. These symptoms may be divided into immediate and subsequent. The immediate symptoms are faintness and collajise,succeeded by intense paiiiAvliich soon becomes agoniz- ing, is of a burning character, and spread all over the ab<lomen ; the face is anxious and assumes sometimes a hippocratic expression ; the pulse may be sloAV, feeble, and intermitting, or it may be Jiatural for a time, until [)crito- nitis sets in ; rigors occasionally occur; thirst is complained of, and vomiting takes place, first of the stomach’s contents, then of blood, and lastly, it may be, of blood and bile ; the abdomen becomes either tympanitic and tender, f)r flat and rigid from muscidar contraction ; finally, there may be retention of urine. The subse(pient symptoms are such as are excited by traumatic peritonitis, and Avill lie describe*! in their proper place. Diaynosis.—This is usually not difficult. I’roloiiged collapse, sudden tympanites, agonizing pain, acute tenderness of the abdomen Avith, probably, absence of external injury, blood in the vomited matter or in the stools, but Avithout evidence of marked internal hemorrhage—tlicse, folloAving the recei})t of a bloAV upon the abdomen, are very eharacteristic symiitoms, though they are not all uniformly present. Distinction liiiist be made betAveen cases of primary rupture, Avliich at once present such symptoms as the above, and cases of perforation of the coats Avhich folloAv several days—it may be thir- teen or fourteen days—after an injury, and Avhieh are due to ulceration of the contused parts of the viscera. The symptoms of the latter cases are for a time insidious, but as soon as }ierforation is approaching, the colla[)se .and abdomi- nal j)aiu and distension become Avell marked. If violence is inflicted upon the inguinal region, or upon a scrotal hernia, the symptoms of ruptiued boAvel may be erroneously referred to damage to the testicle or cord, but the hippocratic expression, together with the continued and inca’casing severity of the symp- toms, will sufficiently indicate the )nore serious nature of the accident. The symptoms folloAving a bruise of the intestine may simulate rupture of the boAvel, but they are less severe, more transient, and rmu'e amcnaldc to mild and sooth- ing treatment. It is avcII for the surgeon to bear in mind that instant death may arise from the sudden perforation of a cancerous or simple ulcer of the stomach or intestine, and that as the death-stroke may be folloAved by a fall, doubt may ])Ossibly be raised as to the cause of the rupture,just as it is some- times raised in cases of .apo])lexy and falls on the head, as to Avhether the extravasation is due to the fall, or the fall to the extravasation. A j>ost-moi’- tem examination Avill hoAvever clear up the question in the c.ase of the intes- tine. In a case related by (luthrio, of a boy Avho Avas struck in the .abdomen by a piece of wadding ilischarged from a gun, and Avho then fell from a tree an<l shortly die<l of rii[itured ileum, a nice medico-h'gal [loint might have