INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 990 eftected a pair of polypus forceps, or by a blunt book, according to the shape of the foreign body ; after its withdrawal, the stomach-wound should be stitched up with a continuous, or Lembert’s (Fig. 1193), or Jobcrt’s (Fig. 1194), suture; and the wound in the abdomen should be closed as after ovariotomy. For two days prior to the operation as little food as possible should be taken into the stomach. If the oblique incision be employed, it should commence below and a little to the left of the xiphoid cartilage, and should be continued for three and a half inches outward, and an inch below the margin of the costal cartilages. If the longitudinal incision be selected, it should be made four inches in length along the outer edge of the left rectus muscle, beginning immediately below the margin of the thorax. Great care must be taken against blood or gastric con- tents escaping into the peritoneal cavitjq and witli this object all bleeding from the cut edges of the parietes should be stayed before opening the perito- neum, and all bleeding from the cut edges of the stomach before introducing the sutures. The looped ligature, by allowing upward traction to be made upon the stomach, will help to prevent any escape of its contents, and this may still further be secured by taking care to have an empty stomach at the time of operating. M. Labbe fixed the stomach to the opening in the abdominal Avail by eight points of suture before cutting into the viscus, and attached great importance to this step in his successful case above referred to. The after-treatment consists in keeping the shoulders and knees of the patient raised, applying a soft, liglit dressing, such as absorbent cotton-Avool, or boracic charpie, and retaining it Avith a broad flannel binder. Xo food should be given by the mouth for three or four days, but the patient should be sustained by nutritive enemata. Fooley,^ of XeAv York, and DurhanF have shoAvn that in nine out of ten cases of gastrotomy recovery has taken place. To the earlier cases tabulated l:)y Mr. Durham, he has since added Labbe’s case read before the French Academy of Medicine in 1876 ; Fleury’s case, in Avhich a fork, accidentally swalloAved, Avas removed two days afterAvards f and the fatal case of Bille, in Avhich gastrotomy was performed subsequently to oesophagotomy. Still other cases luiA'e been recentlj^ recorded by Felizet,'* [Schonborn, and Thornton]. [The folloAving is believed to be a correct list of the operations hitherto reported for remoAvul of foreign bodies from the stomach. Dr. Otis has clearly shoAvn that Mr. Durham, folloAving South, is in error in attributing a successful case to “ Shoval,” the case in question being identical Avith that of ScliAvabe:— ■ Pooley, Richmond and Louisville Med. Journal, April, 1875. 2 Durham, Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 799. 3 Gamier, Diet. Prog, des Sciences Medicales, Paris, 1882. •* Much information on gastrotomy will he found in the second surgical volume (pp. 58 and 59) of the Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, to which I must refer the reader for references to all the known eases and sources of infoi mation. The editor of the History remarks that “ in the single example of lodgment of a hall in tlie cavity of the stomach, recorded during the war, there was no ij[uestion of gastrotomy, an operation unlikely to be called for iu military surgery.”