ULCERS OF THE CHEEKS AND LIPS. 4(39 wound involves the vermilion border, tlie edges should be very carefully adjusted by sutures, so as to guard against the occurrence of permanent fissure, and secure perfect symmetry in the line of union. Furuncle and Carbuncle of the Lips. These forms of gangrenous inflammation are often observed in the lips. They are very painful, and are often attended with marked symptoms of cerebral disturbance, sometimes leading to fatal results. The special danger of the disease in this situation has been ascribed to absorption of septic poison by the facial vein. The most reliable treatment consists in free incision through the whole thickness of the inflamed and indurated parts, followed by stimulating dressings, such as lint moistened with oil of turpentine, or balsam of Peru. The best results are obtained when the incision is made at a very early period of the disease. The incision should be made through the free border of the lip. At a very early stage of the disease, the morbid action may be promptly arrested by the application of a cauterizing needle to the depth of three or four millimetres, at sevci’al points along the labial margin. If this is done under the influence of an anresthetic, it is not a severe remedy, and it does not disfigure the patient. Fissures of the Labial Margin, or Cracked Lips. These are usually the result of exposure to cold, and they are most apt to occur when there is some derangement of the general health. When the lip is stretched, tliey are very painful, and they are disposed to bleed. They will generally heal when they are jiiotected fiom cold and are occasionally touched with sulphate of zinc, sulphate of copper, or nitrate of silver. When they are neglected, they may lead to deep ulceration of an intractable character, sometimes ref[uiring excision. Obstinate fissui’es at the angles of the mouth should lead to careful investigation as to a possible syphilitic origin. Ulcers of the Cheeks and Lips. Aphthous ulcers of the mucous membrane of the lips are apt to he very painful. Great relief is often attbrded by touching them with sulpliate of zinc, sul[»hate of copper, or nitrate of silver, but the application for the mo- ment gives severe pain. Attention should always be paid to the general health, and especially to the digestive organs. A charcoal mixture, or a mixture of rhubarb and soda, will often be of great service. Lupus.—This disease may affect the lips and cheeks, assuming the form of either lupus exedens or lupus non-exedens. It often greatly ilisfigures the ]iatient. The affected parts may be excised, or they may be destroyed by the actual or potential cautery. If the extent of the disease be limited within narrow bounds, the edges of the wound, after incision, may be brought into contact, and secured by sutures. Lot when there has been great loss of sub- stance, a plastic operation will be required to fill up the chasm. Rodent ulcer and epithelioma (Plate XXXI.) may both occur in the same situations as lupus, and may require substantially the same treatment.