G74 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. extraction, it is far better practice to perform traclieotomy.^ In some instances, tracheotomy having been performed, subsequent laryngoscopic manipulation may supersede the alternative of splitting the larynx, as in a case of bone impacted in the ventricles, under the conjoint care of Sir "Wil- liam Fergusson and Dr. Morell Mackenzie^ (see Fig. 1036), in which, some Fig. 1037. Fig. 1038. Coin impacted m the ventricles of the larynx. (Grazzi.) Coin in grasp of forceps. (Grazzi.) days after the tracheotomy, the bone was dislodged with a blunt hook and expelled in two pieces, one in the grasp of the hook, and the other by coughing after similar dislodgment, the day following. In other instances, the extrac- tion may be accomplished safely after awaiting subsidence of the local inflam- mation, as in a case in which a lamella of bone, measuring nearly one inch by three-fourths of an inch, was removed by Whistler^ from below^ the vocal bands, six weeks after it had become firmly imbedded in the laryngeal Fig. 1039. tissues. These manipulations are performed with curved laryngeal forceps, one of the best of which is the lever-bladed forceps devised by Cusco. (Fig. 1039!) Yoltolinf bas suggested the use of a powerful magnet, applied externally, to lift a needle, tack, or other object susceptible to magnetic attraction, out of the air-passage into the pharynx, or to fix it at a point accessible to laryngeal forceps, or to a magnetized probe. It is quite possible that a magnetic probe or pair of forceps introduced into the air-passage, whether laryngoscopically or through an external incision, might draw towards it any small body of this kind. ' For cases in point, see Schmidt, Arch. f. klin. Chir., Bd. xvi. H. 1, S. 186 ; Cohen, op. cit., p. 620;R.delaSota, Archives of Laryngology, Jan. 1883, p. 13. ^ Op. cit., p. 417. “ Lancet, Dec. 2, 1876 ; cited by Mackenzie (op. cit., p. 416). ■* Personal communication ; ami Trans. International Medical Congress of 1881, vol. iii. p. 334.