1140 HERNIA. occurs in another from constitutional causes. Xo surgeon is thereby warranted in objecting to the removal of the original tumor, or even to a repetition of the operation, if necessary, although the mortalit}’ of such an operation may exceed that of the radical cure of hernia in reducible and favorable cases. The loss of time and the expenses attendant upon the i-adical cure of hernia are small in comparison to those of a life-long rupture, and can scarcely he seriousl}^ estimated. The mere money-value of the former must be great!}' smaller than that of the latter, while the losses from disability for various callings, and from opportunities in life unavoidably neglected, must in many cases be very great. Again, when the radical cure is accomplished in early youth, when time is of little value and when the chances of success ai’e cor- res}iondingly great, the risk amounts to nothing at all. Tatients may thus l)C made strong and capable men and women, fitted for the wear and tear of labor and exertion, of pregnancy and parturition. Moreover, hernia can he with most ceitainty cured while it is yet small and manageable, and the cure by operation is more certain than that by the slow, tedious, and very uncertain treatment by truss-pressure, while it is certainly less irksome, painful, and inconvenient. L"pon the princi])les of insurance, and in accordance with the maxims of prudence, the evils of a hernial condition are best countei’acted, as a general rule, by an early recourse to the benefits of operative surgery in effecting a radical cure. Operations for the Badiccd Onre of Inguinal Hernia: The /Subcutaneous Wire Opemtion.—This operation I consider to be tlie best for cases of perfectly reducible hernia, and especially for those in healthy children and young persons, in whom truss-pressure has been found to make no pi’ogress towards closing up the aperture, and particularly if they ai-e likely to be called upon Fig. 1131. Pig. 1132. a iQStrumeiits required iu operation for radical cure of inguinal hernia.. The scrotal incision. for a life’s work which will remove them far from instrumental and surgical assistance, or will render them incajiahle of meeting the necessary^and recur- ring expenses, while at tlic same time it will test and try their physical powers of resistance. It is also applicable to those cases in which trusses fail in keejnng up an increasing rupture, or cause, in some way or other, great discomfort to the wearer.