218 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. give rise to phlyctenular conjunctivitis, while in the adult and non-scrofulous, the catarrhal variety will follow; or if the cause act with sufficient inten- sity, aggravated by bad health and surroundings, purulent conjunctivitis may result, with all its characteristics. While these are established facts, doubtless by far the most frequent cause of purulent conjunctivitis is conta- gion. To the eyes of the infant it comes from the genital organs of the mother, during parturition. In the adult, it is the result of self-inoculation with gonorrhoeal matter. The contagion may get into both eyes at, or about, the same time. But frequently the second eye contracts the disease from the secretions of the first. Without careful supervision this is almost certain to occur, when only one eye is at first involved. To prevent inoculation of the second eye from the first attacked, is much more difficult in infants than in adults. Because an infant is attacked by severe purulent conjunctivitis soon after birth, we are not justified in assuming, necessarily, that the mother has gonorrhoea. Simple leucorrhoea, the lochia, and even the liquor amnii, getting into the eyes, may give rise to purulent conjunctivitis. Certain atmospheric or other conditions sometimes predisiiose to the more ready and rapid spread of the contagion of this disease, causing it to assume an epidemic form. At such times, it is not always easy to trace the contagion where it actually has taken place; and sometimes inflammatory conjunctival diseases arise without contagion, and, when reaching a certain suppurative degree, are communicated to others. In badly ventilated asylums, school-houses, barracks, and tenement houses, where large numbers of persons are crowded together, especially at night, the conjunctiva becomes so irritable, and takes on violent disease from such slight causes, that the destructive spread of conjunctivitis can only be prevented by breaking up the dens of infection, and isolating the diseased persons. Isolation, cleaidiness, fresh air, and healthy food must he secured, if the disease is to he cured or prevented from spreading. Ophthalmia neonatorum^ the scourge of the lying-in room in all ages, is now so well understood by educated physicians, that its occurrence can he nearly always prevented by timely precautions. I have insisted for many years, in my lectures, on the importance of promptly washing off the face and eyelids and washing out the eyes of every new-born babe, with clean tepid water, before bathing its body. The additional precaution of drop- ping a solution of nitrate of silver into the eyes, twice a day, for the first day or two after birth, will certainly save the child from purulent conjunctivitis, and from possible blindness of one or both eyes. A two-per-cent, solution is quite strong enough, and causes, even when freely dropped into the eyes, no serious irritation. A weak solution of carbolic acid, or a stronger one of boracic acid, will answer the same purpose, but the nitrate is found to be the surest preventive. The adoption of these wise precautions in most hospitals and lying-in establishments, has recently settled beyond cavil the preventabil- ity of this dangerous aftection. The same remedies, at once applied, in adults where known contact has taken place by accident or carelessness, will remove or destroy the virus, and save the eye from a frightful attack of purulent conjunctivitis. Treatment of Conjunctivitis.—Remembering the tendency to spontaneous and safe recovery in mild cases, and the great danger of inflammation of the cornea and damage to sight in severe attacks, our therapeutics will be rational. In times past, when every inflammation of the eyes was “ sore eyes”—and when nitrate of silver, in substance or strong solution, was the invariable remedy—the doctor Avith his lapis infernalis Avas dreaded as the fiery fiend, ready to burn out the eyes! and he seldom failed! In slight forms of catarrhal conjunctivitis., a feAV days of rest in a Avell-A’enti- lated but sufficiently Avarmed room, some restriction of diet, gentle laxatives,