DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 277 plied by the conjunctiva. If tlie conjunctiva is reduced in its superficial ex- tent by any cause, as by the shrinking process that follows granular lids, two results follow. One is cupping or incurvation of the tarsus; and the other oliliteration of the retro-bulbar folds. The former produces more or less rigidity of the lid, and trichiasis; the latter limits freedom of movement. In extreme cases, the degenerated conjunctiva seems to pass directly from the posterior edge of the tarsus to the sclera. This condition is called posterior st/mblepharon, and is incurable. Its evils are enhanced by the dryness of the atrophied conjunctiva, which when extreme is called xerosis. In this liope- less degree, the mucous mendjrane becomes as dry and harsh as the skin. It is the "occurrence of this form of syrnblephaion that deters surgeons from sacrificing a zone of. sclerotic conjunctiva in the operation of syndectorny. The directions for that operation are, to incise the conjunctiva entirely around the cornea, dissect it back, and remove a broad I»and, reaching almost or rpiite to the ecpiator of the- globe. Then the sub-conjunctival tissues are cut or scraped away, baring the sclera completely. This denuded surface is allowed to heal, and, in doing so, it contracts and obliterates the persistent vessels that traverse the cornea and keep up the opacity. Tlie area of the conjunctiva, already much reduced in these cases, is still further diminished. For this and other reasons, I greatly prefer inoculation in extreme cases of paimus, as already stated. The use of jequirity, if ecpially efficient, would he still pre- ferable to inoculation, because freer from danger. Tbe surface shrinkage of tbe conjunctiva and the arrest of its secretion are often increased by too severe cauterization in the treatment of granular lids. Another form -of symblepharon is the result of destruction of large por- tions of conjunctiva by burns or other causes. If the palpebral and ocular conjunctiva are both destroyed, the raw surfaces in contact are sure to unite rigidly. In case the cornea has lieen destroyed, or severely cauterized, the lids may unite firmly with the entire front half of the liall. • The ilifliculties in treating tins form of adhesion are much increased, if the conjunctiva is destroyed to the bottom of the cul de sac. In that case, it is impossible to pass a probe underneath and around the adhesion, and almost impossible to prevent reunion of the surfaces when artificially separated. The burn often destroys the lid margin, the puncta, and tbe canaliculi, thus still fur- ther complicating the symblepharon. Then again, a hopelessly blind eye, wben thus adberent and I’estrained in its movements, is often painful and detrimental to its fellow. In tliat case it should be enucleated. A limited symblepbaron, especially when a probe can be passed around it, can lie cai’efnll}^ detaebed anil kept from reuniting. It is always wise to cover the denuded eyeball, after free detachment, by separating and sliding in folds of conjunctiva from opposite sides, uniting them by fine sutures. Some benefit, and often very satisfactory results, are thus obtained by the skilful adaptation of means to ends. Erectile Tumors op the Eyelids.—Vascular tumors of ditferent kinds, usually called erectile, often form in or under the skin of the eyelids and face. They are of serious importance, and, when far ailvanced, always difiieult to cure without deformity. Timely surgical intcud'erence is always desirable. WTiether congenital or not, these unsightly diseases are very a})t to increase, it not promptly treated. In some that are well defined and subcutaneous, a careful enucleation is }iractical)le. If cut into, however, alarming hemorrhage is sure to follow. Some form of ligature, eitber subcutaneous, or, in bad cases, even including tbe skin, will usually suffice. Acupuncture, and even the galvauo-cautery, are often indicated. Coagulating injections are very risky, and 1 have seldom used them. There is no class of diseases wliicli reipiires,