75 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. tion of the arachnoid effusion has taken place.^ Hewett says that he has seen at an autopsy one case where the pus was thus circumscribed, the fluid running down between the falx and left hemisphere as far as the corpus callosum. The next tissue attacked is the pia mater, which is usuallj^ extensively infiltrated with the same greenish-yellow, puriform or plastic exudation that I have described as occupying the arachnoid sac. In one very severe case, the pia mater had become so thickened that it could be removed “whole from the brain, and with its prolongations, which dipped down between the convolutions,” looked “as if it had been cast in wax.”^ The inflammation is usually limited to the pia mater of the convexity of the hemispheres, although this is not an invariable rule. The sulijacent cortical brain-tissue is frequently dark and discolored, and so softened as oftentimes to permit adherent fragments of brain-substance to come away witli the pia mater, even when the latter is removed with the utmost care.^ Tlie whole thick- ness of the cortical portion of the brain may be involved, or oidy a thin stratum of its peri[)hery, Avhile the white substance is entirely unaffected except by simple congestion, as evidenced by the larger size and greater number of its vascular puncta. As exceptional conditions found after death from meningitis resulting from injury of the skull or its coverings, I may mention that, Avith pus betAveen the bone and dura mater, the arachnoid sac upon the side of injury has been seen to contain purulent lymph, covering flie posterior third of the upper and lateral surface of the hemisphere, Avith entire absence of sub- arachnoid effusion.^ This is a very uncommon condition. In another case, Avith the dura mater covered Avith adherent lymph, and “ matter running from thence along the branches of the middle meningeal artery doAvn to the base of the skull, no effusion Avas found in the arachnoid cavity,” Avhile sero- purulent fluid was found in large quantities in tlie subarachnoid tissues covering the Avhole of the corresponding hemisphere.® I Avould here call attention to the interesting fact that, Avhile it is the rule to find inflammatory effusions in the arachnoid sac when the disease is due to traumatism of the bone, meningitis from brain injury resembles the idi(j- pathic form of inflammation, in that the arachnoid cavity is in tlie majoiity of cases free from effusion. If the morbid appearances of the membranes after contusion® of the brain be examined, the exudation Avill bo found chiefly if not entirely in the pia mater, which it infiltrates to a varying extent. In those cases alone in Avhich the inflammatory process is of an exce])tionally high grade, does the effusion take place into the arachnoid cavity. When purulent, the effusion into the pia mater is not infrequently of a decidedly green color. There are then tAvo kinds of traumatic inflammation of the meninges, in which the primary source of the disease affects first the membranes nearest to it. Thus, Avhen the bone is the starting point, the dura mater becomes affected, and, as a consequence almost Avithout exception, the free surface of the arachnoid. Originating in the cerebral substance, the inflammation attacks the pia mater, to Avhich it is confined, except Avhen the morbid process is very severe.’^ Owing to the visceral arachnoid in many parts ' Am. Jour, of Med. Sci., vol. Ixvi. p. 63. 1873. * Tliere will Be found hi Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 620, a cut which shows the appearances described. See also Rokitansky, oil. cit. 3 Rokitansky, op. cit., vol. iii. p. 342. ■* Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. ]i. 620 ; Watson, Practice of Physio, 4th ed., vol. i. pp. 377, 378. ® Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 621. ® Many such cases would be called concussion by the majority of surgeons. ’’ The intense cerebral congestion mentioned as having been found soon after concussion, readily explains the readiness with which the pia mater becomes inllamed after such accidents.