ABSCESS OF THE LARYNX. 701 sary to cover the parts, for cough, often hejoncl the patient’s control, expels the powder. In some cases the powder will not stick to the parts, no matter how passive the patient may he. Great variation in this respect is to be noted in different subjects. A saturated ethereal solution of iodoform, applied with brush or sponge, or even in spray, may he substituted for the powdei’. AVhen there is great pain due to ulceration, powders containing from one-eighth to one- fourth of a grain of morphine may be propelled upon the parts- once a day or oftener. Morphine may be combined with the iodoform. The mercuric ni- trate should be carefully applied -with a minute fi-agment of sponge securely attached to a holder, or with the point of a delicate brush. Contact with the ulceration should he positive and momentary, and withdrawal fpiick. The agent is not safe in the hands of an inexperienced manipulatoi'. Abscess of the Larynx. Abscess of tlie larynx may he intro-laryngeal or peri-laryngeal. One variety of the latter form, confined to the posterior surface, is sometimes mentioned as retro-laryngeal. Laryngeal abscess is usually a secondary atiection, most frequently a result of perichondritis. Primary circnmscrihed abscess is infre- quent. As determining causes may l)e mentioned, phlegmonous and trauma- tic laryngitis, tuberculosis, syphilis, glanders, smallpox, measles, typhus and enteric fevers, and pyseniia. Abscess of the larynx in enteric fever, appears to be much more frequent on the Continent of Europe than in America. The inferior laryngeal face of the epiglottis, the internal face of an arytenoid cartilage, and the ventricular hand, are the most frequent scats of circum- scribed abscess not the result of in jury; hut abscess has likewise been noted over the supra-arytenoid cartilages, and on tlie internal face of the aryteno- epiglottic and the inter-arytenoid folds. When not the result of perichon- dritis, these abscesses are attributed to inflammation of the submucous tissue and the mucous glands at those localities. Exceptionally, an intra-laryngeal abscess points externally. Tlie pus discharged is usually sanious. The amount is rarely large, but Aavratib mentions an aliscess of tlie right ventri- cle which discharged an ounce of blood and pus spontaneously on the sixteenth day of the disease. Symptoms.—The local sym])toms are pain, dysphonia or aphonia, cough, dyspiifea, and dysphagia. When at all large, the dyspnma may become extreme, and even suffocation may be threatened. £>iaynosis.—In intra-laryngeal abscess the diagnosis rests almost entirely upon laryngoscopic inspection. The collateral inhammation is sometimes so great as to prevent detection of the abscess ; but usu- ally it can be recognized as a glistening, circumscribed tumefaction, red at the base, and red or yellowish at the apex. (Fig. 1061.) It is liable to he confounded with mdema. Partial or complete anchylosis of the arytenoid cartilage is often noted in cases due to peri- chondritis of the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages. In the absence of laryngoscopic inspection, circumscriljed pain alone may indicate the existence of an abscess. Peri-laryngeal abscess is indicated by peri-laryngeal tumefaction with fluctuation on pressure. Prognosis.—The prognosis is favorable in intra-laryngeal abscess, if the diagnosis has Ijecn made; as measures can be instituted at once to avert any Fig. 1061. Abscess from pericboudritis of arytenoid cartilage. Laryiigologisclie Beitrage, S. 20. 1871.