WOUNDS OF -THE CHEST, 807 * Med. and Surg. History of the A/7ar of the Rebellion, Part First. Surgical Volume, p. 518. are reversed, and therefore the lung’s power of suddenly retracting on its root must be much less active in the living than in the dead body; and at best, in the dead body, retraction is but moderate, and either a pneumonic swelling or permanent vascular emphysema will suppress it. While I do not for a moment deny that air, or fluid, Avill readily enter the pleural cavity and accumulate there while the lung retracts under the pressure to its root, I do not see that the elastic traction of the lung towards its root makes the pleural cavity so greedy for air that every Avound of the pleura must neces- sarily lead to pneumo-thorax; even the exertion of respiratory expansion does not appear so certain to cause this influx into the pleural cavity, either in the case of Avound of the pulmonary pleura only—as in rupture of the lung without external Avound—or in the more evident Avound of the costal pleura from Avithout. ‘ In penetrating wounds Avhich reach only as far as to divide the costal pleiu’a, and more rarely in those that iiiA^olve the surface of the lung, a hernia of the lung may take place as a rare complication, perhaps the rarest of the many attending these injuries. These herniae are either primary or consecu- tive. The cases in Avhich primary hernia of the lung has been observed are, first, those of limited and oblicpie Avound, through Avhich air is prevented from entering the pleural cavity by the oblicpiity, Avhile the egress of the lung under the pressure of muscular eflbrt or the strain of coughing is unojiposed; second, cases of Avound Avhich permit the entrance of air, but forbid its escape—in these eases the lung escajAes only at the moment of infliction of the Avound; and third, cases of AVound of large size, Avhen the lung escapes at or very soon after the infliction of the injury.* It Avould ai)pear from the records of the American war, that a complication, and possibly a cause, of the hernial protrusion has been, in some cases, the coincidence of a Avound of the diaphragm and the escape of abdominal viscera into the pleural cavity, Avhicli, by increasing the contents of the thorax, has aided or compelled the protrusion of the lung. The occurrence of a Avound of the lung, although it may not render the protrusion of the Avounded viseus impossible, clearly opposes its occur- rence, for the pressure of the air contained in the lungs and trachea must in a measure fail to act Avhen such an opening exists, and the presence of a pneumo-thorax consequent on the Avound tends directly to prevent a hernia by repressing the lung from the chest-Avall. The second variety, consecutiA^e hernia, takes place as a remote result of Avound of the chest-Avall, the tumor arising after the removal of fragments of broken ribs, and during or subse- quent to cicatrization of the Avound. Tliere is but a single instance of successful reduction [of a traumatic pneuinocele without previous ligation, the case of Angelo.^ A good recovery ensued, though the lung-tissue was wounded. Authors generally advise taxis, and some recommend the enlargement of the wound to return the tumor; but there is no evidence of the expe- diency of this measure. Excision or ligation were employed in most of the cases, and no bad results appear to have followed these operations. Non-intervention is probably the safer precept. After a while the protrusion contracts adhesions with the walls of the thorax, and occludes the opening.^ It Avould appear by the report quoted, and by the accounts of recorded cases, that there remains a necessity for permanent support by a properly devised pad and bandage to keep the parts secure. The questions of highest imporPuice in the consideration of penetrating Avouuds of the chest, are those relating to hemorrhage^ as a symptom and as ' Morel-Lavall6e, Mfinioires de la Societe de Chirurgie de Paris, t. i. 2 ftazetta Medica di Milano, Feb. 1844.