523 DISEASES OF THE GUMS. The hard palate, which resenihles the gnm in structure, is like it liable to epuloid growths of a fibrous nature, closelj^ couuected with the periosteum and bone, and therefore requiring free removal. The trephine was advan- tageously employed by Syrue in a case of this kind, but, in the majority of instances, a superficial exfoliation produced with the cautery will give com- plete immunity from return, without causing subsequent deformity. Epithelioma may invade the palate primarily, but more frequently it extends from the gums or tonsil. In the latter case its nature is readily recognized, but in primary epithelioma of the palate it may be difficult to distinguish it in the earlier stages, and the disease is often more extensive than at first sight appears. In a man lately under my care, Avho presented an epithelial ulcer confined apparently to the palate, which I destroyed with the actual cautery, I found extensive mischief spreading into the antrum, and recurring after free removal. When the disease begins in the alveolus, it sjiread^ upwards into the antrum and along the palate, in the form of an out-standing growth and not in that of an ulcer. Ilence the nature of the case is some- times overlooked at first, and attention is apt to be concentrated upon tbe oftensive discharge from the nostril, and other symptoms suggestive of sup- puration in the antrum. Nothing, however, less than early and free removal of the Avhole disease can be of any service, and even then recurrence cannot always be prevented. Diseases of the Gums. Hypertrophy of the gums occurs as a congenital affection, and cases of it have been recorded by Gross, Salter, MacGillivray and others. In tlie Transactions of the Iloyal Medical and Chirurgical Society,' is a record of three children of one family who all presented hypertrophy of the gums, and who were also the subjects of mollusc tun fihrosum. All these children were of Aveak intellect. I brought before the Odontological Society of Gi’cat Britain, in 1878, tAvo remarkable cases of hypertrophy of the gums, one in a child of five years, and the other in a young man of tAventy-six. In the child the hyper- trophy Avas general, involving the Avbole of the gums of both jaAVs, but in tlie young man it Avas partial, being confined to the gum aial ah^eolus of the right side of the loAver jaAV, from the right Avisdom tooth to the left canine. A cure Avas ettected in both cases by removing the affiected alveolus Avith the contained teeth, by means of poAverful cutting forceps ; and nothing less severe is effectual, since it has been sboAvn by Mr. Charles Tomes that in these cases the disease di[»s into the socket of the teeth, and that therefore mere paring aAvay of the redundant gum does not effect a cure. A NyEA'oiD CONDITION OF THE GUM is occasionally met Avith as a congenital affection, and I have known it to coexist Avith an extensive port-Avine stain of the face. In this ]>atient, an otherwise healthy young Avoman, tbe luevoid groAvth appeared to take on greater activity Avitb each pregnancy, and I re- moved the A^ascidar ontgroAvth on tAvo or three occasions, applying the actual cautery freely for the arrest of bemori'hage. A A’ascular, non-congenital tumor of the gum may originate from irritation of the teeth, especially in tbe region t>f the incisors. When small, these growths may be treated with caustics, but if large and causing hemorrhage, they should be removed, and the surface from Avhich they groAV should be touched Avith the actual cautery. 1 Modico-Cliirurgical Transactious, voL Iri.