DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 229 Hutchinson.^ Frequently there will be found nodes upon the shins, and other symptoms of tertiai’y syphilis. This disease is extremely persistent, leading to great cloudiness and vascularity of the cornea, and is often complicated by iritis and closure of the pupil. It nearly always attacks both eyes in succession. During its progress, or soon after its subsidence, a destructive in- flammation of the cavity of the tympanum and labyrinth is liable to follow, terminating usually in total deafness. Still another form of keratitis deserves special description. I mean the so- called fhlycteyiular keratitis^ sometimes named strumous^ because it nearly always attacks scrofulous, delicate, and precocious children. The pustule or pimple that gives it its peculiar name may be single or multiple, and situated anywhere on the cornea. It is usually small, and out of all propor- tion to the intense photophobia and suffering which attend it. The victims of this troublesome disease are likely to be afflicted 1>y blepharitis ciliaris, phlyctenular conjunctivitis, otorrhooa, cutaneous eruptions about the face and scalp, enlargement of the lymphatic glands, and other scrofulous troubles. The seat of the phlyctenula makes all the difference possible in the symptoms. When on the conjunctiva of the sclerotic, it causes little suffering and soon gets well; but when seated on the cornea proper, extreme intolerance to light, spasm of the lids, and months of the most distressing suffering are likely to follow. The corneal i>hlyctenula sometimes ends in a small ulceration, and very rarely in perforation of the corliea with its consequences. The cornea is apt to become vascular, the little tuft of vessels running from the margin to the seat of the phlyctenula, and leaving after recovery often a corresponding band of 0}>acity. In other cases there remains oidy a small speck of opacity, indicating the seat of the phlyctenula. The little sufferer is always worse in the morning, and better towards evening. Left to its instincts, the child will hide away in the darkest coiTier it can find, for weeks and for months ; bury- ing its face in the pillow, and holding its j)ale, bony fingers spasmodically on the eyes, fighting against the light with a deadly struggle. In warm weather the face will bo soaked with sweat, the skin chafed and covered with eczematous patches, the eyeli<ls fissured at the outer angles, and Idecd- ing when pulled open, with scabs in and around the nose and beliind the ears. This picture is grapliic and pitiable, because true to nature. Photo- phobia, always a characteristic symptom of acute keratitis, is here most intense and persistent. Variola is often followed by a severe and very troublesome form of kera- titis. It conies Oil gradually, during desquamation, and results in great and permanent damage to sight. This form does not as often result in ulceration, perforation, and staphyloma of the cornea, as in dense opacity. It is always very obstinate, and requires an invigorating constitutional treatment. When ulceration of the cornea^ under any circumstances, extends in de]»th, there is always serious danger of ■perforation. Mere perforation and loss of tlie aqueous humor, in itself, is not a dangerous termination. It is often to be desired and aided, rather than dreaded, as it is generallj^ the turning point towards recovery. But if great care be not taken to avoid sudden perforation under pressure of the surgeon’s fingers, or S})asmodic contraction of the eyelids, a hernia of the iris will take place, with great increase in the immediate and remote danger to vision. As the cornea retains its natural curvature and position after loss of the aqueous, the lens is pushed forwards, carrying the iris before it, till its convex surface rests against the cornea and the an- terior chamber is oliliterated. If the perforation be large, sudden, and violent, not only extensive prolapsus of the iris may take place, but the capsule may ' See Vol. II. page 565, Figs. 335-340.