213 INJURIES OF THE EYEBALL. are often valuable aids in the diagnosis and treatment of injuries of the eye, of whatever kind. The treatment of injuries of the cornea depends much upon the complica- tions. If perforation have not occurred, and the Avound he not contused, simple cleansing, followed hy fpiiet, closure of the lids, and cold applications, or a comfortalile bandage for a few hours or days, is all that is required. If the chamber has been opened, the sudden spirting of aqueous ivill nearly always produce hernia of the iris. This should be reduced, if possible, but it can only be done during the first few hours. Plastic exudation soon takes place, and so glues the protruding iris in the Avound that it cannot be returned. If the prolapsus is small and quite recent, involving only a small portion, if any, of the pupillary margin, the promj^it and energetic use of eserine may reduce it completely. Rarely is it safe or advisable to try to return it by a spatula or other instrument. If the herniated iris cannot be relieved, the next best thing is to remove as much of it from the avouiuI as ]>ossil)le. This requires much delicacy and coolness on the part of the surgeon. If the patient has great self-control, anresthesia is not required, but otherwise it must be complete. If the prolapsus is at all prominent, it can be clipped off Avith scissors pressed Avell against the cornea. If ever so little of the pigmented iris is snipped aAvay, the aqueous trickles or spirts out, and the i)rominence at once disap- pears. Should this plan not succeed, the im|)risoned iris must he seized Avith small iris forceps, draAvn gently and carefully out, alid snipped close to the corneal surface Avitli the scissors. Great caution is here requii’ed in prevent- ing any sudden rotation of the eye, Avliich is almost certain to occur if tlie ])atient be not unconscious. The iris is most acutely painful A\dien seized, and, if the patient roll the eye suddenly, the Avhole oi‘ a large part of this membrane may be dragged loose from its insertion. Von Graefe relates a case in Avhich the entire iris Avas remoA-ed from the eye l)y such an accident, and I have seen such an occurrence in othei’ hands. AVhen the eye is perfectly still, and the iris is draAvn tense, and snipped f[uickl\" and close, no such accident can take place. It is of vast importance for the future of the eye, to remove ev^ry trace of iris from the avouikI. Othenvise, stapliylomatous protrusion of the cornea, glauco- matous hardness, and sIoav bilt hopeless loss of vision may be the result. If Avith the corneal perforation and hernia of the iris, there be, at the same time, injury of the lens capsule and cataract, the danger of violent reaction is greatly increased. The rapid SAvelliug of the traumatic cataract leads to pressure upon the iris, increased intra-ocular tension, pain, and perhaps })anoplhlialmiti3. The first thing to be done is to free tlie corneal avouikT from iris, as aboA^e directed, and then to dilate the pupil and keep it dilated liy instillations of atropia, four grains to the ounce of Avater, dropped in several times a day. The dilatation draAA^s■the pupil aAvay from the irritating lens sul)stance, and helps to control iritis and the tendency to closure of the pupil. If tlie lens SAvell so rapidly that large masses protrude through the rent in the capsule, it may be best to remove it by a linear incision in the cornea, or by opening, and perhaps enlarging, the original corneal Avoiind. But if the patient is young, the absorlients active, and the pain and increase of tension not great, this may not be necessary. In that case, or after removal of all the soft lens substance that can be readilj^ let out, tlie patient sliould be put quietly to bed, and ice-cold compresses, renewed often and kept up day and night, should be used till the reaction is controlled. It is next to certain, liOAvever, that at best the eye Avill recover Avith secondary cataract, adhesions of the iris, and little or no useful sight. But the ])atient is saved from protracted sufiering, hopeless loss of sight, and the danger, immediate and remote, of synijiathetic ophthalmia in tbe other eye. By ])rompt and skilful treatment, an eye may be saved and made useful at a later period by an iriilectomy. Of