517 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE PALATE. Fig. 1011. volnntfirj closure of the nostrils which is very remarkable. Ordinarily, in man, the nostrils are perfectly rpiiet in tranquil respiration, and it requires considerable effort to close them, as when plunging the face into water. A patient with cleft palate, on the contrary, may be noticed to ]»ut his compres- sores nariam into strong action every time he speaks or swallows, and it is very difficult to overcome the habit when the necessity for it lias passed away, through either a successful operation or the adaptation of well-fitting apparatus. Staphyloraphij^ or the operation for closure of a cleft palate, was up to the last fifteen years almost invarialdy postponed until the period of puberty, or later, so that the surgeon miglit have the patient’s self-control to aid him in his troublesome and tedious operation. A few cases had no doubt lieen operated upon in childhood, with indifferent success, by Mason AVarrenand others, hut to Air. Thomas Smith, of St. Bartholomew’s and the Children’s Hospital, is mainly due the credit of showing that it is possible to operate in infancy under chloroform, not only without risk but with very great success. In his paper in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions (1868), Mr. Smith described a gag by which the mouth of the patient can be kept sufficiently open, and which, in some form or other, is essential for the due performance of the operation, now performed by him as follows. [Fig. 1011 illustrates a conve- nient form of moutli-gag and tongue-depressor combined.] The patient is place<l on a table of convenient height, facing the window, and if possible a northern light. The head is supported liy an air-cushion, and is firmly held by an assistant standing be- hind, while the arms and legs are strapped down to prevent struggling. The operator stands on the right of the patient and the chloroformist on his left. Tlie patient being thoroughly narcotized, the gag is introduced and the mouth screwed open, the rings of the gag being held by the thumbs of the assistant supporting the patient’s head. The edges of the cleft are then pared with a slender, double- edged knife, which is thrust through the margin of one side of the soft palate, held tense with forceps, and made to cut up, and then down to the end of the uvula. The margin thus separated is caught witli the forceps, and the section completed up to the angle of the cleft, if possible as one sweep, or, if not, liy a reapplication of the knife. The same process is repeated on the other side, and in favorable cases it is both possible and satisfactory to re- move the parings of both sides of the palate in one piece. The closure of the soft palate is then pro- ceeded with, fine silver wire being used, with horse-hair or silk for the uvula. Mr. Smith employs a sharply-curved, tubular needle, for the wire, which is carried on a wheel in the handle of the instru- ment (Fig. 1U12), and which can be jn’ojected when the point has traversed both sides of the palate. A twister ( Fig. 1013) is employed to twist the wire up, but the last few turns are more conveniently given at the conclusion of the ope- ration with a pair of torsion-forcejis. The horse-hair is softened in warm water, and is introduced with a small curved or rectangular needle set in a handle, being j)assed througli l»oth sides of the palate, and caught with a “ catcher” or forceps. The horse-hair is simply tied •with three knots so as Mears’s moutli-gag for staphyloraphy.