786 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. vocal band nearly midway between tlie positions for pbonation and for deep inspiration, a little within the ordinary respiratory position (Fig. 1109), the cadaveric position of Ziemssen (Fig. 1110). This position has often been mistaken for that of extreme abduction, and has thus led to unnecessary confusion in the recognition of individual laryngeal palsies. In unilateral paralysis, the unaffected vocal band often crosses the line in phonation, its arytenoid and supra-arytenoid cartilages i>assing in front of their fellows (Fig. 1109). Fig. 1108. Paralysis of arytenoid ; acute laryngitis. (Ziemssen.) Fig. 1109. Fig. 1110. Bilateral paralysis of recurrent nerve. (Ziemssen.) Position of the vocal bands removed from a recent cadaver. (Ziemssen.) Dysphonia exists in unilateral, and aphonia in bilateral paralysis. The “ phonative waste of breath” (Ziemssen) in speaking, is sometimes so marked as to indicate the character of the lesion independently of the laryngoscope. This form of complete paralysis of the recurrent seems (Semon) to be almost in- variably preceded by paralysis of the aljductor filaments only, the vocal baud remaining fixed in the phonatory position, and reced- ing to the cadaveric position only when the adductor filaments become paralyzed. This initiatory phase of the paralysis being, usually unilateral, does not affect the voice, and hence escapes recognition; laryngo- scopic inspection being rarely instituted until impair- ment of voice has resulted from complete paralysis in the cadaveric position. Semon suggests that more frequent examination of individuals with nerve-lesions will verify the accuracy of this observation. Laryngoscopic inspection reveals the character of the palsies of the larynx, but it does not always de- tect the lesions which produce them, even when myopathic merely. To complete the diagnosis, it is necessary to interi’Ogate the constitutional integrity of the patient, and to pass in review all possible Fig. nil. Crossing of arytenoid carti- lages. (Ziemssen.)