242 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. lected until tlie child is ten or more years old, and then removed, good sight is seldom restored, although the vivid response of the pupil, and the quick perception of light, may have led the operator to expect and promise a good result. The retina never having exercised its functions, rapidly loses its capacity for perfect sight. In youthful subjects, another form of cataract is occasionally seen, partial in the beginning, but progressing rapidly and leading to blindness of one or both eyes. Sometimes it starts in the nucleus and extends to the cortex. In other cases it is just the reverse, and the cataract has a peculiar, radiating, star- like appearance in the anterior cortical. In such persons the lens is more solid, and has sometimes a quite tirm nucleus, especially if not operated on for many years. Senile Cataract.—This is by far the most frequent variety, and the name indicates that it has for its victims people of riper years. The sclerosed nucleus in old persons is amber-colored, very firm, and dry, and it undergoes little change in senile cataract. The alteration is chiefly in the cortical portion, and begins usually at the periphery, in the form of little stripe, some- times called arcus senilis lentis. Hot afiecting the sight in this incipient form, the stripe are not perceived by the patient, nor seen by the examiner, except rarely. At a later period they send out, towards the pole of the lens, little prolongations, like feathery frost crystals. These, reaching the area of the pupil, begin to disturb vision. In examining a great many people, I find that the marginal opacities usually begin at the lower and inner edge of the lens, and thence extend to the rest of its circumference. Little by little these marginal stripe multiply and extend towards tlie centre of the pupil, producing slowly increasing dimness of vision. As they widen, become confluent, and involve the whole cortical, which in the mean time becomes perceptibly swollen, the amber nucleus is more oliscured, and the cataract is at last mature. We say that maturity is attained when the opacity involves the entii-e cortical, up to the capsule, so that the iris throws no visible shadow. In this stage, the opaque, soft cortical undergoes slow al)sorption ; the anterior chamber deepens, and the amber nucleus again shows itself more plainly. Left so for a long time, the cataract becomes hypermature. The progress of cataract in difierent patients is variable, hut nearly always slow, requiring often many years to reach completion. Senile cataract attacks both eyes, hut usually not at tlie same time. One is apt to progress faster, and get blind before the other. Cataract is never attended by pain or any inflam- matory symptom whatever. If pain accompanies its development, glaucoma or some other grave complication is its explanation. The only discomfort, aside from the trouble in seeing, is manifested by shrinking from light, and efforts to turn the hack towards it. Thus the eyes are shaded, the pupils dilate, there is less ditfusion of light, and the patient sees better. He often finds relief in a hroad-brimmed hat well down over the eyes. When the nu- cleus is more opaque than the margin, the patient sees better on cloudy daj^s, before sunrise, or after sunset. If the reverse obtains, he sees better in the bright light. The pupil will he found active in response to light, the iris natural, and the tension of the globe normal; in short, no evidences of disease are present, except the cataract. In old people the pupil is smaller and less active than in early years, hut it varies in different persons. While the ready response of the pupil to light is a good indication of the state of the retina, it is not infallible. In some cases of retinal detachment, its movements are energetic and misleading, while in other persons with a sound fundus, the pupil does not respond at all. There may he motor paralysis of the fibres of the third, or of the sympathetic. The degree of dilatability under atropine