85Y CONTUSIONS OP THE ABDOMINAL PARIETES. Suppuration and Abscess of Abdominal Parietes.—Causes—Either dif- fused suppuration or abscess may result from a blow or fall, or from forcible pressure upon the abdomen or loin, and they are among the complications oi’ consequences of contusion. Or they may arise from strains of the abdominal muscles. Extravasation of blood, however produced, may give rise to sup- puration, owing to the non-absorption or breaking down of the coagula. Extravasation of urine leads to diffuse suppuration and sloughing, always serious, and sometimes fatal; I have seen it spread in the course of a day or two over the whole of the lower two-thirds of the abdomen, and reach far back into each loin. The bursting of an empyema, or of an hepatic abscess, may lead to long and tortuous suppurating tracks in the abdominal walls. Dis- ease of the vertebrie, of the lower end of the sternum, of the ribs and costal cartilages, or of the bones of the pelvis, is frequently the cause of suppuration in the abdominal parietes. In aijy part of the walls, but especially in the groins and loins, suppuration may extend from the viscera within the cavity of the abdomen or pelvis: thus an abscess wdiicb bad its starting point in the pelvis, between the uterus and bladder, spread along beneath the perito- neum, across the psoas muscle, until it reached and was detected in the loin. But abscesses in tlie abdominal wall may not be traceable to any debnite cause ; and they are prone to arise from very trivial causes, here as elsewliere, in scrofulous, ameniic, feeble, syphilitic, or ptberwise cachectic subjects. They are prone to occur after fever.^ They are of course met with in pytemia and in cellular and cellulo-cutaneous erysi}>elas, both in the circumscribed and diffused forms. Diffused aliscesses are generally deep-seated, and occur amid the loose cellular tissue under the tendinous and muscular expan- sions ; here fluctuation and pointing are not often met with, as the tissues intervening between the abscess and the integument resist the pressure of the pus, and are but little, or not at all, susceptible to ulceration. Superficial, diffuse suppuration is only to Ije met with as a consequence of erysipelas, or where there is great want of power, and therefore but little or no tendency to the adhesive form of infiammation. Circumscribed abscesses of the abdominal parietes may occur (1) superficial to the muscles, (2) on the deep surface of the muscles, (3) between the muscles, and (4) within the sheaths of the muscles. In the/)'0>k of the abdomen they are rare between the muscles, their usual situation being either subcuta- neous, or within the sheath of the rectus, or between the transversalis and peritoneum. Occasionally they arise in the loose cellular tissue about the xiphoid cartilage. In the lateral and posterior regions intermuscular abscesses are less rare, and subcutaneous collections of pus are by no means uncommon in the loins. AVben an abscess forms on the siqierficial aspect of the middle layer of the transversalis aponeurosis, wbetlier it be within the sheath of the serratus pos- ticus, of the latissimus dorsi, or of the erector spinai, the tendency is for the matter to come towards the surface, and then, unless evacuated, to descend sub- cutaneously to the back of the sacrum, or on to the gluteal or femoral regions. On the other hand, if the abscess forms on the deep aspect of the middle layer of the transversalis aponeurosis, as for example within tlie shcatli ot the quadratiis lumborurn, its tendency is towards the cavity of the abdomen, which it will penetrate unless opened in gouil time by tlie surgeon. An abscess which has commenced in tlie areolar tissue about the caecum, may o}ien on the front of the abdomen in the right iliac region; one which has commenced near the sigmoid flexvre may open in the left iliac region ; and one wliicb has begun in the cellular tissue around the kidney or colon - A case of abscess in tlie rectus abdominis muscle after enteric fever, is registered in tlie Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, vol. xvi. p. 275.