WOUNDS OP THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 633 Lacerated wounds are sometimes wholly internal, although caused by ex- ternal violence. Lacerated loounds of the trachea are more common than lacerated wounds of the larynx. They occur most frequently in the form of rupture between cartilage and ligament. Like lacerated wounds of the larynx, they are most frequently the result of various local injuries, such as falls, blows, kicks, and crushes. Counter-pressure may he an occasional cause, as in a case reported by Godlee,^ in which the trachea of a child was split, front and hack, immediately above the bifurcation, in consequence of the passage of a cart-wheel over the chest—the third, fourth, and tifth ribs sustaining fracture on the right side at their point of greatest convexity. Causes of non-surgical origin occasionally produce rupture or laceration of the trachea, such as cough in croups and bronchitis,^ chiefly in children; violent inspiratory etforts in dys})iKea from obstruction or compression ;■* and violent expiratory etforts in parturition, or even in defecation, llupture of the softened trachea may result from the pressure of an abscess, an aneu- rism, or a morbid growth. In cases more strictly surgical in origin and character, the laceration or rupture may be associated with fracture of the cartilages. It often occurs independently. The rupture occurs most frequently between two of the upper rings, or between the upper ring and the cricoid cartilage. In the latter case, the trachea may recede quite a distance from the larynx. An instance is recorded by Mr. Long,® in which the trachea had become separated from the larynx for a distance of about two inches, as demonstrated during a tracheotomy which saved the life of the patient. The violence had l)een very great in this instance, the neck having been caught by the coupling-irons of two rail- way coaches. A case of complete rupture of the trachea from the larynx, the result of a kick from a horse, is recorded by Robertson.® Gunshot lOounds are most frequent in military practice. Nevertheless, their small proportion seems sometimes remarkable, the records of several exten- sive wars of the present generation not presenting a single example. Tlie resiliency and mobility of the larynx and trachea doubtless deflect many balls, so that the air-tube, though struck, is not penetrated.^ The texture of tlie beard, and the position of the lower jaw, especially in tlie position of firing a gun, are regarded as additional factors hi protection. The French contingent in the Crimean Avar® rei)orted but one Avound of the larynx, and that a gunshot AVOund, out of a total of 28,401 Avounds, of Avhich 460 impli- cated the neck. The English contingent® reported eight Avounds of the larynx, pharynx, and oesophagus, out of 147 neck-Avounds. Five of these cases, and an additional one, are related by Mr. Longmore in Holmes’s System of Sur- gery. In llemme’s Record of the Italian War of Independence, in 1850, there is no mention of Avounds of the larynx, although there were 170 neck-Avounds in the Austrian army, and 187 in the forces of the allies. Lbtfler’s report of the Schleswig-IIolstein Avar, in 1864, is said to be equally silent as regards 1 Med. Times and Gaz., December 12, 1874, p. 67r). “ Latour, Manuel sur le Croup. Orleans, 18U8; Voss, New York Med. Jour., Jan. I860, p. 37. ^ Rredschneider, Casper’s Wocheusclirift, S. 261. 1842 ; Lefferts, Medical Record, Nov. 25, 1882, p. 599. Marshall, cited by Gross (op. cit., vol. ii. p. 317j. ® Brit. Med. Journ., July 26, 1856. ® Lancet, September 6, 1856. ^ See case of Hooper, mentioned by Gross (System of Surgery, 6tli ed. vol. ii. p. 315) ; and cases in the Medical and Surgical History of the War of tlie Rebellion, Part First, Surgical Volume, p. 406. Chenu, cited by Witte (Arch. f. klin. Chir., Bd. xxi. S. 184. 1877). ^ Medical and Surgical History of the British Army, 1854-6 ; AVitte, loc. cit.