INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 86 necrosed bone. On perforating this with a trephine, several drachms of pus were forcibly ejected through a sloughy hole in the dura mater. The spastic rigidity of the left arm and leg immediately disappeared, but the patient soon died. At the exami- nation of her body the empty cavity of a large abscess was found in the anterior lobe of the right cerebral hemisphere.^ Diagnosis of Cerebral Abscess.—As to diagnosis, I can only refer to tlie histories of the last cases which I have given. Mental hebetude, slow pulse, headache, perhaps rigors, subnormal temperature, constipation, and at the end sudden development of the symptoms of compression, as evidenced by profound coma, hemiplegia, respiratory failure, and death, seem to have, in all cases, marked the course of the brain-abscess. I believe that an abscess involving the cerebral tissue alone, will be accom- panied in most cases by a subnormal, or at least not an elevated temperature.^ Where a high tempei’ature is observed, either the pns-collection is simply a localized suppurative arachnitis, limited by adhesions, or there is a menin- gitis in addition to the abscess. If originating from bone-caries, middle-ear disease, etc., where the abscess is secondary, there is almost of necessity an elevated temperature, although even here, during the height of the symp- toms, as in the last six days of life in a case reported by Huguenin,^ the temperature may be normal. If these observations are confirmed by others, a valuable diagnostic point will be afforded. Can cerebral localization aid us in our diagnosis ? I think that in cases where, after head injury, the patient presents the train of symptoms just detailed, with distinct implication of one or all portions of the motor area of one side, when death is imminent, even without external wound trephining and the use of the aspirator are at least warranted, if not demanded, in view of the success wliich has been obtained by their employment. If the motor area is not involved, or has not been primarily affected or injured, nothing beyond the purest chance could lead to a successful operation, with no bone- injury as a guide.^ Prognosis.—I do not presume to say that great success ivill attend opera- tions for brain-abscess, but experience warrants the statement that every recorded recovery has been due to operation. As in the great majority of cases, it is impossible at the time of operation to determine whether the abscess is located solely in the cerebral tissue, whether there is simply a localized collection of pus in the arachnoid sac, or whether the abscess-cavity consists partly of cerebral tissue and partly of the membranes, I shall quote the results of thirty eases, which will give an approximate idea of the chances of recovery in these affections. These cases have been reported by De la Peyronie, Dupuytren, Guthrie, Durnville, Noyes, Detmold, Ashhurst, Clark, Weeds, Holden, Ilulke, Maunder, Tillaux, Lloyd, Chinault, Courvoisier, Stimson, Morehouse, Bontecou, Peck, Jalland, Elcan, Broca, Polaillon, Kilgarriff, Edmunds, Milford, W. I). Roberts, and myself. Of this number just one-half proved fatal. Of course I do not mean to say that fifty per cent, represents the actual mortality, but, as far as this series of cases goes, the results are encouraging. 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 626. 2 See p. 27 of this article for a third case hy Mr. Hulke, where the temperature was sub- normal, making, with the following, five cases which I have noted as presenting this symptom. M. L. Brown reports a case of brain-abscess after fracture of the ethmoid bone, where tlie tempe- rature was subnormal—97° F.—for eleven days. (Bost. Med. and Surg. Journ., Dec. 29, 1881, p. 610.) s Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, vol. xii., page 735. * See a case on p. 76 of this article, which 1 consider was eminently unfitted for operation, as perusal of its history will make clear.