478 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. With slight modifications, this operation may be reversed, the redundancy of the lower lip contributing to supply the deficiency of the upper. (Figs. 951 and 952.) Fig. 951. Fig. 952. Buck’s operation for restoration of lower lip. Dr. Buck’s second operation, which is designed, in certain cases of defi- ciency of one side of the upper lip, to supply material from the lower lip, is performed in the following manner: The upper lip on the defective side is separated from the cheek by a vertical or slightly obli([ue incision, involving its whole thickness, and extending downward an inch below the angle of the mouth. From the lower part of this incision, a second incision is made, extending inward almost to the median line, and a third incision, from the inner extremity of the second, upward half way to the vermilion border. The opposite half of the upper lip is to be prepared for the reception of the flap from fhe lower liji by free incision of flie mucous membi’ane connecting it with the jaw, and liy paring its edge, so as to leave a raw surface. The flap from the lower lip is then turned edgewise so as to meet the opposite side of the upper lip, the vermilion border of the lower lip being reversed so as to form a part of the border of the u})per lip. The flap is attached by sutures in its ]iew position. AYhen tlie healing process has been completed, tlie commissure of the lips presents a circular instead of an angular form, and requires another operation to give it its proper shape. This operation is performed in the following manner: A curved incision is made along the line of junction of the skin with the vermilion border, extending to an equal distance along the upper and lower lips. This incision should divide tlie skin and the subcutaneous tissue, but should not involve the mucous mem- brane. A sharp-pointed double-edged knife is then inserted between the skin and mucous membrane, and these parts are freely separated from each other, as far outward as the point where the new angle of the mouth is to be constructed. The skin alone is then divided with strong scissors along the line which is to separate the upper from the lower lip. The mucous membrane is next divided along the same line, but not as far outward, the difference in the length of the two incisions being a little loss than the thick- ness of the cheek. "The mucous membrane at the outer extremity of the incision is then connected with the skin by a suture, so as to form the new angle of the mouth, and the borders of the upper and lower lip are recon-