634 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. the larynx, the number of neck-wounds being 48 out of 2355 among the I’russians, and 26 out of 1203 among the Danes. In the Austro-Prussian war of 1866, Diefel reports two wounds of the larynx and trachea out of 382 cases, and Maas reports one out of 212. As regards the last Franco- Ih’ussian war, neither Bussenius nor MacCormac reports a single wound of the air-passage, but Beck reports nine cases out of 83 neck-wounds. Fischer reports three cases out of 15 neck-wounds, and Ivirchner reports one out of 32. Witte, from whom the above references have been culled, mentions other wars, the statistics from which are valueless in the present connection. Hone of the statistics yet cited approach in completeness those given in Surgeon Otis’s encycloptedic records of the War of the Rebellion.^ Gunshot wounds of the larynx and trachea comprised 2.2 per cent, of the gunshot wounds of the neck that came under treatment during that war. In a few, the larynx and trachea were both involved; in others, the air- passages together with the pharynx or oeso}}hagus. The trachea was less frequently injured by small projectiles than the larynx, and was most fre- quently wounded in its posterior, membranous portion. Ample evidence was aftbrded that missiles are diverted from their course on impact with the trachea. Out of 4895 cases of gunshot wound of the neck, without known injury to the cervical vertebrae, 41 involved the trachea, Avith 21 deaths, the result in one case being unknown; 30 involved the larynx, with 10 deaths, and 10 results unknown; 4 involved both trachea and larynx, with no death; 2 the trachea and pharynx, Avith no death; 2 the trachea and oeso- phagus, both fatal; 1 the larynx and oesophagus, the patient recovering; 2 the pharynx and larynx, both fatal.^ Only four specimen-preparations are preserved in the U. S. Army Medical Museum—Hos. 648, 697,1440, and 2021. Gunshot Avounds are mostly caused by bullets; some, by fragments of shell. They are usually complicated Avith contusion and laceration of the soft parts, and Avith comminuted fracture of the cartilages. Contusion, etfusion, and suppuration of the interior may take place, although the ball does not penetrate the larynx.^ Fractures from gunshot Avound haA’e been recorded, Avithout destructive Avoimd of the integument.^ Whether the bullet shall pass through the laiynx,as it does in some instances, or Avhether it shall remain impacted, as occasionally happens, depends upon the distance travelled by the missile, the tissues ti’aversed before it impinges upon the larynx at all, the part struck, and the position of the individual and the part at the moment of injury; but Preparation 1440,11. S. Army IMedical JMuseum, sIioavs an imitation of the battered conoidal ball Avhich lodged in the upper portion of the right Aving of the thyroid cartilage, after having shattered the inferior maxilla to the right of the synq)hy sis. The missile may lodge elseAvhere in the tissues, after traversing the larynx. In a case reported* by "Dr. Daly, of I’ittsburg, at the meeting of the American LarAUigological Association in 1884, the bullet Avas removed from Avithin the sheath of tlie sub- clavian artery on the side of exit. Large portions of the anterior portion of the larynx or trachea are occasionally destroyed in this manner. Dr. Chisolm* mentions that several instances occurred among the Confederate forces, in the late Avar in the United States, Avhere the larynx had been carried aAvay. Sometimes the destruction is confined to the }ierforation made by the ball. ' Med. and Surg. History, etc., Part First, Surgical Volume, p. 406. ® Op. cit.. Part Third, Surgical Volume, p. 688. ® See cases recorded in Mod. and Surg. History of the War of tlie Rebellion, Part First, Surgical Volume, p. 404. *• Medical and Surgical History of the British Army, 1854-56, cited by Witte (loc. cit., S. 4S4); Wales, Am. Journ. Med. Sci., Jan. 1867, p. 269. ® New York Med. Jour., July 12, 1884, p. 29. * Cited by Otis, Med. and Surg. History, etc.