ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 1023 and transvei'se colon, firmly adherent to the abdominal parietes below the umbilicus, and to one another. A second communication between the bowel and the abscess had been' formed at the cmcum.* Prognosis.—In the first class, or primary abscesses, the prognosis will depend chiefiy npon the cause of the abscess ; in the second class, or secondary abscesses, it is rendered less favorable by the abscess becoming fecal. As an instance of hotv rapidly a secondary fecal abscess even of great size may heal, the following case, under the care of Sir William (then Mr.) Lawrence, may be quoted:— A woman, aged 22, fifteen days after a rigor and pain in the iliac and hypogastric regions, had an abscess opened in the left loin, and 70 ounces of fetid pus escaped. Three days afterwards, the bowels having previously been confined, 80 ounces of feces with some purulent matter came away tlirough the incision, on the patient being moved in bed. In a few days the abscess healed, and the woman was discharged quite well. Tlie reporter remarks: “The above is the only instance we remember in which some days after the opening of an abscess in the loin, the whole contents of the intestine came away through the wound, and then the opening in the gut closed completely and perma- nently, and the patient recovered entirely in three weeks.”^ Wbeii au abscess discbarges into tlte stomacb or botvel, tbe patient’s reco- very is often insured tbereby; but if a mutual intercbange of contents goes on, and fecal matter passes into tbe abscess, tbe gravity of tbe case is inucli increased, even tbougb an external opening also exists. In eitber class of cases, tbere are tbe dangers (1) of lfiood-[)oisoning, (2) of exbaustion from }»rolonged and profuse discbarges, and (3)—when tbe aJtscess results in an external fecal fistula, and the communication with tbe bowel is bigb up in tbe tube—of the emaciation and starvation which result from tbe escape of tlie intestinal contents. Another danger is lest tbe abscess burst into the general cavity of tbe peritoneum ; or again, tbe pus may burrow, and in its course destroy, to a greater or less extent, such important oj’gans as tlie pan- creas, spleen, kidney, lung, etc. Aone of these dangers, bowcver, except that of starvation due to the escape of intestinal contents, are peculiar to fecal abscesses. Sometimes recovery takes place after tbe formation of long and sinuous tracks, and after tbe abscess has been opened in several places, or resulted in the partial destruction of some muscle, such as tbe psoas or iliacus. Some- times death takes place very slowly, and long after tbe abscess 1ms settled down into a mere fistulous opening; in other cases the resulting fistula closes and breaks again and again, ora fresh abscess is lighted up in its track. Sometimes a fecal abscess will attain a large size in an insidious and “silent” manner, and without warning suddenly burst into tlie peritoneum, and so quickly cause death. Mr. Pollock, in Holmes’s System of Surgery (third edi- tion), gives a good illustration of fecal abscess, connected with disease of tbe appendix cieci, taking this course; and did space permit, cases illustrating each of tbe above statements miglit be ipioted, and some of those already given in tbe text might be referred to in corroboration of their trutli. Treatment—Tbe treatment of fecal abscesses in their early stages does not (litter from that of other abscesses. As soon as there are signs of extravasa- tion ot fecal matter or suppuration, a free opening should be made. Disin- fectants, irrigation, and constant change of dressings will be requisite; tlie bedding and tbe air of tbe room must be kept as fresh as possible; pain must be allayed by anodynes, and tbe strength maintained by tonics, good diet, and stimulants. When tbe cause of the abscess, or of tbe resulting fistula, persists, it should ' Britisli Med. .Journ., August 22, 1857, p. 709.