4b2 DISEASES AED INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. [APPEiv^DIX. Rhinoplastic Operations. {By the Editor.) Rhinoplastic operations, or operations designed to accomplisli the partial or complete restoration of a nose, may be required to correct a congenital deformity, to remedy the eflects of injury, or to repair the ravages occasioned by ulceration, with or without necrosis or caries, by lupus, by constitutional syphilis, etc. It is an invariable rule in nasal surgery that no operation of this kind shall be undertaken until the process of destruction by which it is rendered necessary has been entirely and delinitively checked. Rhinoplastic operations may be divided into those designed to repair a nose which has been only partially lost, and those intended to remedy com- plete destruction of the organ. I. Operations for Partial Restoration of the ISIose. Repair of Columna and Septum.—Should the loss of tissue be limited to the columna nasi and septum., a new columna may be conveniently formed from the upper lip, by making an incision on either side of the median line, and through the whole thickness of the part, thus separating a portion about one-third of an inch in width, and of a length equal to the depth of the lip; this strip is then turned upwards, and its end, having been suitably trimmed, is adapted to the tip of the nose, which must be freshened fo]- the purpose, and is secured in its new position by the twisted or shotted suture. The labial mucous membrane which is thus turned outwards, gradually loses its normal character and becomes assimilated to skin. The sides of the lip are approxi- mated with hai’elip pins and interrupted sutures, and a few narrow strips of ]>laster are so adjusted as to support the transplanted portion until it becomes tirmly adherent in its new position. The dimensions of the newl^’-made nostrils must be maintained by occasionally introducing into each a silver or gutta-percha tube. Deficiency of one of the al.® may be repaired, if the loss of tissue be but slight, by taking a flap from the upper part of the nose itself, and attaching it with numerous points of the inten-upted suture to the previously freshened edges of the gap. If the deflciency be greater, it will be necessary to take a flap from the cheek or forehead, the former plan being, I think, the better. The cheek-tissues are very vasculai-, and a flap large enough to replace almost half the nose can be readily obtained, and b}" curving the ends of the inci- sions can be slid into place, without any necessity of twisting the pedicle upon itself, as must be done when the flap is taken from the forehead. If the latter plan be adopted, to prevent sloughing of the pedicle, a groove should be cut on the dorsum of the nose for its reception. "When union is completed, the pedicle may be raised and cut away, and the groove then closed again with sutures.