SURGERY OF THE PERMANENT TEETH. 561 in filling them, and hence, if cavities occur upon adjoining surfaces of teeth which are inclose contact, space must be made. Filing teeth for such a pur- pose is almost always unjustifiable. Space can be made by wedging. AVood, cotton, or rubber may be used for wedges, and in a few days suflicient space will be gained for operating. The teeth will resume their positions after the wedge is removed. Toothache.—This arises more frequently from an exposed pulp than from any other cause. The next most frequent source of toothache is in the invest- ing membrane of the root. This second form rarely, if ever, occurs while tlie pulp is living and healthy; in fact, inflammation of this membrane seems never to occur until after the pulp, for some cause or other, has died. Toothache may arise also from other more hidden and less tangible causes. Ossification of the pulp, exostosis of the root, and the formation of so-called pulp-stones, are not uncommon sources of pain. Pain may be locali?;ed in a tooth which is quite sound, and the cause may be discovered to 'exist in some diseased tooth far removed from the aching member. Temporary pain may follow the eating of certain fruits or sweets, which come into contact with sen- sitive dentine through some minute crevice in the enamel; this is a common occurrence, in apparently sound teeth, and such pain does not always indi- cate that the affected tooth is decayed or requires filling. Aching teeth are sometimes only a symptom of systemic disturltance, and the cause must then be looked for elsewhere. Pulpitis and pericementitis are, however, the chief causes of this disease. Exposed pulps that have not taken on an active state of inflammation may be relieved of pain by the apjtlication of oil of cloves, creasote, oil of peppermint, laudanum, chloroform, tincture of aconite, phosphoric acid, amt. possibly many other remedies, any of which may be applied to the exposed pulp by saturating a small bit of lint, and gently placing it in the cavity of decay. iN^one of these have a tendency to immediately destroy the pulp. If devi- talization is desired, a minute quantity of arsenious acid may be used with either of the foregoing as a menstruum. Toothache may sometimes be relieved by the external use of a lotion composed of e(|ual parts of chloro- form, laudanum, and tincture of aconite, ap])lied on the cheek against tlie tooth, but particularly using it immediately behind the ear of the same side of the head. A last resource is extraction, which, except in very rare cases, is not justifiable. In many cases, neui’algia of the head and fiice is owing to dental irritation. Cavities of the teeth which do not reach the pulp, receding gums which expose roots too near their apices, and the encroachment of tartar under the gums, are among its fruitful causes. “ Any })ortion of the head, throat, or associate parts supplied l^y the fifth nerve, or iiK.leed by its related nerves, may be the seat of reflex trouble from a dead pulp—thus Ave have odonto-gastralgia, odonto-cephalalgia, odonto- cardialgia, etc.; even sciatica has been cured by the extraction of a diseased tooth.” Fain arising from exostosis cannot be diagnosed with certainty, but when it becomes evident that that is its cause, extraction is the only remedy known. lAricementitis, as bef<')re stated, only follows death of the pulp. In the earlier stages of inflammation, an ap]>lication to the gum of a nuxture of tiTicture of iodine and tincture of aconite, over tlie seat of pain, may afford relief; or the gum may be stipjded Avith saturated tincture of iodine, thus establishing minute blisters. This failing, resort should be had to leeching, which, if done before supimration has set in, Avill produce the desired result, but, if suppuration has begun, Avill be likely to aggravate the evil. If the su[)[)urativc stage has been reached, and the pain continues, poulticing or lancing is indicated. VOL. V.—36