97 TREPHINING. some cases none are needed. Where there is no wound, crucial, V-shaped, or, which I greatly prefer, a horseshoe-shaped incision, should be made. Any bleeding which does not spontaneously cease in a few moments, should be arrested with serre-fines, or by the application of a piece of dry antiseptic lint, which will, by the pressure of an assistant’s fingers, stanch the blood. Ligatures may be used if preferred, but are usually unnecessary. The peri- osteum should next be incised, carefully separated by the raspatory or knife- handle, and kept out of harm’s way, so as to avoid, as much as possible, the risk of future necrosis. The trephine, with its centre-pin protruded about one-sixteenth of an inch, and firmly screwed in this position, should be now applied to the portion of bone which it is intended to remove. The instru- ment should be worked with a light, sharp, quick movement from left to Fig. 841. Application of the trephine. right, and from right to left, care being taken not to press unevenly, and the pressure being chiefly exerted as the hand is carried from left to right. As soon as a sufficient groove has been cut to steady the trephine, the centre-pin should be withdrawn, and fixed so as to avoid injury to the dura mater. When the outer talde of the skull is cut through, the lione-dust, which up to this time has been dry, becomes soft and bloody, as the instrument penetrates into the diploe. Both the sound and feel are also ditferent. Where the use of the centre-pin is undesirable. Dr. P. IT. Watson, of Edinburgh, has sug- gested that the instrument should be steadied liy applying it through a per- forated piece of pasteljoard, firndy held against the bone. The trephine should be removed from time to time, and cleansed in the earbolized water, either by the lirush or a sponge. The detritus lying in the bony groove should lie removed liy a tooth-pick or the fiat end of a jirolie, advantage being- taken at the same time to measure the depth of the cut at various ]iortions of the circumference, to ascertain whether the lione is being evenly divided. If one segment of the groove be deeper than another, the trephine must be inclined towards the shallow side, and pressure made at that point alone until the groove is of equal depth throughout. The surgeon must remember that the bone is frequently of unequal tliickness at various parts of the circum- ference of a trepliine-cut, so that while the osseous disk may lie firmly held fast at some point liy portions of the inner table, the teeth of the instrument may at other points be tearing tlie dura mater, the cluef thing to be avoided. When tlie instrument reaches the inner table, both the sound to the ear and the sensation conveyed to the hand usually give warning. Great care VOL. v.—7