954 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. after an incision in the back. Mr. Frederick Treves, in a valuable paper read before the Royal INIedical and Chirnrgical Society of London, in January, 1884, lias lately advocated an incision along the outer edge of the erector spinie muscle in the treatment of psoas abscess and retro-peritoneal suppuration resulting from caries of the spine. By cutting through the sheath of the erector spime, and the cpiadratus and psoas muscles, the vertebrae are reached, and the anterior surface of the bodies of all the lumbar vertebrie can be explored. Mr. Treves details three cases in which the operation was followed by complete recovery, and in one of which a large sequestrum, measuring one inch by half an inch, was removed from the body of the first lumbar vertebra. Retro-peritoneal abscesses having a spinal origin may be treated in the same way. I have found healing hastened, in some cases, by making the patient wear a Thomas’s hip splint, so as to keep the thigh ancl trunk in line and prevent the action of the psoas and iliacus muscles; moreover, with this splint on, the patients are able to stand and move about, and thus the viscera are brought to bear upon the iliac and pelvic fascise, and tend to keep the abscess-surfaces in contact. A marked ease was under my care two years ago, of extensive sub-peritoneal suppuration in the pelvis and left iliac fossa of a woman ; free incisions and drainage above Ron part’s ligament resulted in fistulse, which would not close. For seven months a free purulent dis- charge continued unabated, the patient being meanwhile kept in bed; then a Thomas’s splint was api)lied, and she was allowed to get up ; in six weeks tlie abscess had completel}^ dried up, and the fistulre closed ; but for four or five months the splint was worn to check the action of the ilio-psoas muscle, ddie patient has remained well since. In some eases it Avould be best no doubt to make an abdominal incision, open and cleanse the abscess cavity, and stitch the edges of the incision into the abscess to the edges of the parietal wound. This has been done with marked success by Mr. Lawson Tait,* in twenty cases of suppurating, extra- peritoneal pelvic hicmatoceles, and there is no reason why the same treatment should not he applied with good results to many other cases of retro-perito- neal suppuration. The evacuation of pus by abdominal section would not he difficult, and, as compared with the risks of leaving such abscesses un- opened, not dangerous; whilst rapid recovery would follow if the general cavity of the peritoneum were protected in the way suggested and practised by Mr. Tait. After pus from these retro-peritoneal abscesses has commenced to discharge, the strength of the patient requires to he maintained by tonics, nutritious diet, and stimulants; careful dressings and scrupulous cleansing of the wound, and attention to the condition of the bedding must be observed, so as to avoid bedsores and blood poisoning. As soon as possible the patient should he taken out of doors, and passive exercise in the fresh air encouraged. Even the daily change of room is advantageous in these, as in all other forms of purulent discharge. As the stench from some of these retro-pej’itoneal abscesses is very sickening and offensive, means should be taken to deodorize the discharges, and dressings of an antiseptic character should be used. I know of nothing more efficacious in correcting the condition of ill-smelling discharges,and in substitutinga liealthy odor in its place,than iodoform applied on lint, and in some cases covered over with the thinnest film of cotton-wool, so as to prevent contact of the drug with the skin or wound. Retro-peritoneal associated with Intra-peritoneal Abscess.—Retro- peritoneal abscess may set up, or be set up by, or have a common origin and *-Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. Ixiii. p. 307 ; and Diseases of Ovaries, 4tli ed., p. 344.