104 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Brodie relates the case of an old man, run over b_y a cart, who with a depressed fracture of one parietal bone complained of total blindness. After death, fragments of the sphenoid bone were found compressing both optic nerves, just behind the orbits.^ llewett says that there are, in St. George’s Hospital Museum, two optic nerves derived from the same patient, where the neurilemma was distended witli blood, thus producing compression. He says that he has found this con- dition in several instances after severe injuries of the head, and especially after those near the orbits. The nerve-sheath was in these cases distended with blood, which had escaped from the veins contained within the neuri- lemma. This observation of Sir P. Hewett serves to explain the gradual recovery of sight which takes place after certain head-injuries, where prima- rily vision has been lost.^ M. Duponchel reports a case where the optic nerve was divided by a penetrating wound of the orbit:— A dragoon was wounded in a duel by a sabre-tlirust. After death it was found that tlie weapon had passed beneath the globe of the eye, and had completely divided the optic nerve.® Third Pair; Oculo-Motor Herves.—Although from their relations, this pair of nerves is less liable to be torn b}" osseous fragments than those just mentioned, it is quite often compressed by extravasated blood. While all the parts supplied by this nerve may be paralyzed, it is much more frequent for the levator palpebraj to be alone atfected, resulting in complete ptosis, ytill more strange is it to learn, that one branch of the upper division of the nerve, with another branch of its lower division, may be alone atfected. In a case which I have already related to illustrate another point, the third nerve upon the left side was compressed by an enormous clot of blood proceeding from a ruptiu'cd middle meningeal artery, and during life the left pupil was widely dilated.^ Brodie® relates an interesting case in which recovery ensued, and as, though the paretic condition of the pupil per- sisted so long, complete restoration eventually took place, it may not be amiss to give here an abstract. A gentleman received a severe contusion of the liead by a fall from his horse, which rendered him insensible; and the fact tliatthe loss of consciousness persisted for several days, showed that the cause was some form of compression. When consciousness began to return, ptosis of the right upper eyelid was observed, with a completely dilated pupil, which did not contract with the stimulus of light. It was only after the lapse of nearly a year that the right pupil returned to its normal condition. Those cases tvliere vision is said to have been affected in injuries of the third nerve, are probably not due to anj" acconqmnying lesion of the optic nerve, but to the state of the pupil. If such be the case, a stenopaic slit, or pinhole tlirough a card, will render a differential diagnosis easy, provided that no original difference from refractive anomaly existed in the eyes pre- vious to the accident. An ophthalmoscopic examination would, in these latter circumstances, .be necessary to determine whether the impairment of vision, after the use of a stenopaic apparatus, was due to injury, or to congeni- tal or acquired defect of refraction. ^ Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiv. p. 348. * Gaz. des Hopit., p. 446. 1854. 3 Bull, de la Soc. d’Emulation, 1822 ; quoted by Aran. ^ See, also, Aran, Archives Gen. de M4d., 4e serie, tome vi. p. 338; Pick (Left third nerve compressed in sella turcica by blood clotj, Brit. Med. Journ., May 27, 1865. 5 Brodie, loc. cit., p. 354.