DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 269 becomino; large and almost horny, are the characteristic symptoms. These scabs adhere very closely, and are hard to remove. When they are fully detached, the lid bleeds from ulceration of the skin, a process that may he limited to a few cilia, or may extend tlie entire length of the lid. The scab- bing, burrowing of pus, and destruction of the hair bulbs, continue for years, till the patient is at last deprived of eyelashes, seriously disfigured, and annoyed for life. Treatment.—Absolute cleanliness must be enforced. The lids are to he bathed with warm water, for half an hour or longer, twice a day. When the scabs are thus softened, they must he thoroughly removed by rubbing with a soft rag over the end of the finger. This failing, they must he detached by a small spatula, or with cilia forceps, no matter at what cost of screaming and bleeding. Firmness on the part of the surgeon is demanded, as the nurse is always timid and fails to do the work fully. The child must he held across the nurse’s lap, face upwards, and the head firml}^ clasped by the sur- geon’s knees. He is thus master of the situation if he have already mastered the mother or nurse. AYhen every trace of the scabs has been removed, it greatly expedites the cure to trim the lashes as closely as possible with a small pair of scissors, and to repeat this at least once a week. The raw surfaces, thus exposed and dried, are now to be touched quickly and lightly with a pointed stick of nitrate of silver. A solution of from ten to twenty grains may be used in preference, applied carefully with a small brush, and limited strictly to the ulcerated ])ortion. Great care must l)e exercised to pre- vent its flowing into the eye. AVhen the surface is slightly whitened, the free use of water will remove the surplus. Tliis may be repeated once or twice a week, as long as there is any manifest ulceration. In tlie evening, before bed- time, warm ablutions, cleansing, and drying, must be followed Ijy the use of some one of the mercurial salves, rubbed along the roots of the lashes and left till morning. These should be weak, non-irritatiug, and in small quantity, but well rubbed in with the finger. Calomel, with vaseline or lard, gr. j to 3j, or red precipitate, gr. ss to 5ji pure and thoroughly incoiqwrated by rubbing, ai'e excellent remedies. The yellow oxide of mercury in the same strength may also be applied, but I And that it often causes too much irritation. For many years I have used the diluted, brown citrine ointment with almost constant suc- cess. On the lids I use 3j of the ointment, rubbed up with 3iijof lard. For the nose, ears, scalp, lips, etc., it may be applied in full strength. After thorough washing with soap and warm water, to remove all tlie dry scabs, the raw surface should be brushed with the solution of silver nitrate, and afterwards well greased with the salve. This is best done at nigbt, and the eyelids may be treated in the same way.^ If, after a fair trial, one of these salves tails, another may be tried. After a few days of such treatment, the scabs will cease to form, and the force of the malady will be greatly lessened. But the use of the salve must be kept up for months, at longer intervals, in order to prevent a return of tlie diseased process. At first the lids must be freed and greased every night. Then every second night, afterwards twice a week, and, finally, at least one apjtlication of the salve every week must be continued for months after the lids seem well. Till the cure is well advanced, the surgeon himself should conduct the treat- ment, even applying the salve in the day himscll', if he cannot be sure of its proper use at night. Combined with these necessary, local measures, tlie long- ' The citrine ointment maybe made according to the following formnla : g.—Hydrargyri, §jss; Acid, nitrici, ^iijss ; Olei morrhiu-e, §xvjss. Dissolve the meronry in the aciil ; then heat tlie oil in an earthen vessel, and, when the temperature reaches 200'^ F., remove it from the fire. To tliis add the mercurial solution, and, with a wooden spatula, stir constantly as long as elferves- cence continues, and afterwards occasionally until the ointment stitlens. \