INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1020 ' Ibid., vol. vii. p. 281. short time, most likely, it will open externally through the operation wound, or in the neighborhood of Poupart’s ligament, and a fecal fistula, leading out of the abscess-cavity, will result. When a hernia has been reduced en masse, extravasation will sooner or later (if the patient does not die of strangulation beforehand) take place into the areolar tissue outside the parietal or pelvic peritoneum, or between the pubis and pelvic fascia. I have seen two such cases, though not in my own practice, In one, a woman aged forty had been operated upon for strangulated femoral hernia; a small bundle of bowel had completely sloughed away. Within a large fecal abscess-pouch, between the pubis and bladder, and beneath the pelvic fascia, there were two intestinal orifices, one leading into the portion of the bowel which entered, and the other into that which left the abscess-cavity ; all communication with the peritoneal cavity was completely shut off by firm adhesions between the parietal peritoneum and the bowel, and there was no general peritonitis ; the patient died of collapse. In the other case, a fecal abscess followed sloughing of a strangulated hernia in a pregnant woman. There was a large fecal abscess behind the pubis extending down to the neck of the bladder, and separa- ting this viscus from the pubic symphysis. There was a sloughy opening into the ileum fifteen inches above the ileo-cmcal valve, large enough to admit a finger ; and an open- ing on the surface a little above and to the left of the pubis, from which sinuses burrowed in the parietes, both outwards towards the iliac crest, and forwards and downwards behind the pubis, just above which there was also a second opening. There was no evidence of past or recent general peritonitis. I have seen a third case of, as I believe, exactly the same kind as the first of the above, but the condition was not verified by a post-mortem examination. Cancer of the uterus, bladder, vagina, or rectum is a frequent cause of both intra-peritoneal and extra-peritoneal fecal abscess; these are generally discovered on the post-mortem table, but they sometimes present themselves as circumscribed sAvellings, roofed in by coils of small intestine matted together, and adherent to the parietes in the hypogastric region. The pressure of a pelvic tumor, by causing obstruction in the bowels, may lead to a large fecal abscess in the pelvic cellulai’ tissue, which may open upon the buttocks in more places than one. I had such a case for a long time under my care in the Middlesex Hospital. By degrees the rectum had become completely flattened by the pressure of multiple uterine fibroids, and when the patient came under my notice there was great abdominal distension, and neaidy all the fecal matter which escaped passed through fis- tulous openings in the buttocks, which burrowed out at both great sciatic fora- mina. Colotomy was performed ; the large abscess almost completely dried up; and the patient lived for two years after the operation in comparative comfort. Dr. AVilks has put on record a case of multilocular cyst of the left ovary the size of a new-horn child’s head, on the right side of which was a fecal abscess communicating with the caecum; as no disease existed elsewhere, it is presumable that the abscess was caused by the irritation and inflammation set up by the tumor, but it is not actually said that such was the fact. The ease is reported on account of the intra-cystic growths being covered by ciliated epithelium.* Gall-stones may lead to intra-peritoneal abscesses which may be fecal at their origin, or may become so. The followung is a good example of an extra- peritoneal fecal abscess from gall-stone ; as the patient recovered, it is impos- sible to say with what part of the bowel the fecal abscess communicated. A healthy girl, aged ten, who had never ailed beyond occasional attacks of indigestion and bilions vomiting, suffered after one of these attacks pain extending from the right groin to the right back; there was much tenderness over the caecum, and the belly was