URINARY FISTULA-:. 9G5 spontaneously opened below tlie umbilicus, and a quantity of bair and pus was disebaTged. Afterwards, urine in large quantities passed liy this abdomi- nal opening. Some of tbe bair from the cyst likewise escaped into tbe bladder, througli a fistulous communication, and there, pbospliatie matter being deposited upon tbe hair, so considerable a calculus was formed as to entirely prevent any urine flowing otf by tlie uretbra, so that at length tbe whole of it was passed through the fistula. The patient was cured by a single operation, which consisted in introducing a bistoury at the abdominal fistula, and laying open the cyst by cutting the abdominal iiarietes downwards along the median line ; then with a sound in the bladder and tbe finger in the lower part of the cyst, the fistulous communication between the cyst and the Idadder was found, and enlarged, and the calculus was removed through the incisions thus made. (/') Intlammation of tlie peritoneum, or of some one of tlie pelvic viscera, may lead to adhesion and ulceration of tbe bladder, and then to a circum- scribed abscess, wliicli, bursting through the abdominal wall, results in an urinary fistula indirectly communicating with the bladder. (y) Similarly, inflammation of the sub-peritoneal cellular tissue may lead to suppuration around and ulceration into tbe bladder; and by the liurrowing of pus an external opening may be formed on the abdomen, aliove the pubes, at the groins, by the side of the anus or in the adjacent parts of tlie nates, or over one of the large foramina of the pelvis, a complete urinary fistula being tiiereby established. (2) Vesico-visceral Fistalcc.—Urinary fistula; are not unfrcquently estah- lished between the bladder and rectum, bladder and vagina, or bladder and small intestine, as the result of inllammatory adhesions and ulceration between those parts. When the small intestine becomes matted together, and adherent to a sloughing or ulcerating bladder, a firm tumor may be formed in the bypo- gastriuni, and be mistaken for a distended bladder. I have elsewhere reported a case somewhat in point.* Simple chronic inflammation, tubercle, cancer of the bowel, uterus, or vagina, and cystic and other diseases of tlie ovary, are common causes of these forms of urinary fistula. Stricture of the urethra, calculus, or indeed any cause within the bladder which excutes adhesion to parts around and ulcera- tion of the bladder-walls, will conduce to them. Urethral Fistulte opening externally through the Walls of the Ahhomen.—In extravasation of urine from stricture of, or injury to, tbe urethra, and also occasionally after lithotomy, tbe urine may find its way behind the triangular ligament into the pelvic cellular tissue, when, unless death quickly takes place, suppuration is excited, and matter may point above h*oupart’s ligament on one side or tbe other. Thus an urinary fistula is formed. I have seen this happen after lateral lithotomy; the pus burrowed up through the ]>elvis, and along the spermatic cord, and was let out below the external abdominal I’ing. The patient, a man aged fifty-six, died fourteen days after tbe lithotomy from a lai'ge abscess in tbe liver. When the urine, after extravasation in front of the triangular ligament, finds its Avay beneath the skin of tlie abdomen, it may travel as higli as the umbilicus, and a fistula may form in tbe groin, or elsewhere upon the front or side of the alidomen. In tliesc cases as in those of deeper-seated extravasation, sujipuration is generally very free, but the fistulous opening will soon emit urine if the patient lives through the period of suppuration. Wilmoh relates a case of ' Medical Times and Gazette, July 28, 1883, p. 92. 2 Stricture of lire Urethra, j>. 179.