1131 INGUINAL HERNIA. tlie lieniia, and may closely invest the lower and inner, and sometimes a portion of the upper part of the circumference of the peritoneal opening. In such cases, the rupture will assume the appearance of a direct hernia, and the edge of the rectus muscle may be felt to form the inner margin of the deep opening of the sac. Tlie inguinal canal will be very short, and the two openings almost directly opposite to one another, as in internal or direct hernia. The most common seat of strangulation in an oblique inguinal hernia, is at the inner edge of the fascial opening of the deep ring, thickened it may he into bands, or adherent to the neck of the sac. Or in old ruptures the strangulation may he placed in the thickened neck of tlie sac itself, or in ad- hesions placed entirely within the sac. In some large cases the stricture may he from muscular spasm of the internal oliliqne, and lastly, and most rarely, at tlie margins of the fascia or pillars of the superficial ring. The two last forms are usually most amenable to the use of the taxis. The most common .seat of strangulation in a direct hernia, is the opening in the triangle of Ilesselhach, where the fibres of the conjoined tendon encircle the neck of the .sac, or, as in oblic^ue hernia, in the neck of the sac itself, or in its contents. An oblique hernia mostly depends upon some deficiency in the develop- ment and arrangement of the ]>arts concerned in the descent of the testicle, which causes them to yield at an early or later period of life, and more or less ({uickly, to the internal pressure. A direct hernia is most frequently produced in muscular men liy tearing of the tissues by violent efforts in lifting, etc. To the latter cases, the term rupture is more a}ipro[iriate than to the former. A hernia of either kind, when it has forced its Avay through the deep o[iening into the canal, lilting forward the front wall and bulging backward the hinder wall, and while it is protruding between the pillars of the super- ficial ring and dilating its inclosing fascia, is called a bubonocele, the name signitying a tumor or nqkure of the groin. It is for a short time often arrested in its downward course into the scrotum by the contraction at the upper })art of the latter, which indicates the commencement of the dartos muscle, where the loose adi})Ose tissue ceases. And this may form, after conqilete descent, a sort of oldhiue, hour-glass contraction, which is also seen in cases of large hydrocele, making their way upwards in the opposite direction. Dcticeni of the Testicle.—This gland, originally developed from the AV^olfiian body below the kidney', as an abdominal organ, makes its way downward between the seventh and eighth months of intra-uterine existence. To effect its descent, a cylindrical mass ol‘ unstriped muscular fibre, the guhernaculum testis, develo[)cd and blended with the dartos scroti, and connected with the bottom of the scrotum below andAvith the peritoneum and loAA'er part of the epididymis above, is ai<led by a portion of the cremasteric fibres to draAV doAvn the testicle till it reaches the ndddle of the canal, Avhere those fibres areattached. The farther doAviiAvard moA^ement is acconqilisherl by the gubernaculum and dartos alone, Avhile the fibres of the cremaster, according to Mr. Curling, become invested Avith it, fornnng the invested loojis characteristic of that muscle. The sac of peritoneum, Avhich is destined in the male to form the trndca vaginalis, }trecedes the testicle, and is sometimes found in the female, reaching Avith the round ligament into the labium, Avhich rejiresents the cor- responding half of the scrotum. This is iXnd envoi of Kuck, the most usual cause of ohfupie inguinal hernia in the female. ISToav, sometinuis, h}' the occur- rence of peritonitis in the fietus during its intra-uterine existence, adhesions form hetAveen the testicle and the bowel, omentum, or iliac Avail of the abdomen, or Avitli the kidney itself, causing arrest of development, and, if these adhesions