DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. 509 may be cut off almost bloodlessly. Mr. Walter Wbitebeacl, of Manchester, has adopted the use of scissors only, for the removal of the tongue, drawing the organ well forward, and dividing the tissues beneath by a series of snips on alternate sides, each lingual artery l^eing secured as soon as divided. The ligature^ formerly used for strangulating portions of the tongue, has fallen into disuse because of the practical difficulty of keeping it sufficiently tight to insure continuous strangulation of the part to be removed, and also because of the suffering caused by the presence of a sloughing mass of tissue in the mouth. It is unnecessary therefore to consider the various modes devised for applying the ligature in former years. The ecraseur has been extensively employed for removal of portions, or the whole, of the tongue, with very satisfactory results. The wire ecraseur (Fig. 1009) answers the purpose better than the chain instrument (Fig. 1010) at Fig. 1009. Wire Ecraseur. Fig. 1010. first employed, in which portions of the tongue were apt to be twisted up. In order to effectually remove a diseased portion of the tongue with tlie kraseur^ it is necessary to isolate the growth by passing well beyond it curved needles set in handles, around which the wire of the ecraseur may be passed and be thus kept in its proper position. Without this precaution, the wire as it is tightened is certain to encroach upon the disease, and lead to an incomplete operation, and no forceps are sufficient alone to obviate the occurrence. The galvanic ecraseurused in the same way, lias the advantage of cutting more readily through the tissues, which it sears at the same time, tbiis pre- venting all hemorrhage at the moment. It has however the drawliack that the se^iaration of the slough necessarily formed by the cautery, is very apt to lead to secondary hemorrhage some days after the operation, and bence the use of this instrument has been abandoned liy many surgeons who formerly employed it. Faqueli'ii's thermo-cauihF is a very convenient instrument for removing small portions of the tongue, since it is not necessary in using it to pass i>ins beyond the growth. It is lialde however to the same drawback as the gal- vanic cautery, viz., secondary hemorrhage. Removal of ove-hMf of the tongue is an operation yielding satistactory results, and conpiaratively easy of performance. It was recommended by Dr. Buchanan, of Glasgow, who however divided the symphysis rnenti, a com- See Vol. I. page 524, Fig. 94. See Vol. I. page 504, Fig. 77.