INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 724 Fig. 1071. admits the passage of the inspiratory, and prevents tlie passage of the expi- ratory current. The instrument of Luer (Fig. 1071), which is one of the best, has a curved, adjustable chamber, in which a light, hollow, silver ball falls for- ward by gravity during expiration, and is rolled backward against a pair of wires during inspiration. When skilfully made, the valve makes so little noise as rarely to attract, attention. The use of the valve- tube often diminishes hypersecretion very materially, to the great comfort of the pa- tient. At night, and at other times when not required for purposes of conversation, the valve should be removed, as it impedes, to some extent, the freedom of respira- tion. A patient upon whom I operated in 1876 has worn this appliance with great satisfaction for eight years. AVhen the time comes for permanent removal of the canula, the external orifice should be corked from time to time, to learn whether the patient can get enough air by the natural passages. A fenestrated canula is not necessary for the purpose, as it is improper to use an instrument so large that an ample suppl}^ cannot pass by its sides. If a fenestrated canula be used, care must be taken that the opening is entirely beyond the track of the wound, as otherwise its edges will be apt to excite inflammation, which will be followed by the development of fungous granulations. It must be borne in mind, that a number of accidental complications may occur during tracheotomy, or after it,,some of which may cost the patient his life. Most of them are due to carelessness or negligence. Some take place despite every precaution. The posterior wall of the trachea may be pene- trated, and a canula may even be passed right through it, into the oesophagus; the eanula may be passed into the connective tissue in front of the trachea; there may be emphysema into the surrounding connective tissue, or peri- chondritis, chondritis, and necrosis; or there may be diffuse suppuration, fun- gous granulations, ulceration of the trachea penetrating even into the great arteries, stricture, or fistula. A knowledge that such things do occur should insure proper supervision of the wound, canula, and windpipe, until all danger of the sort has become a matter of the past. Luer’s pea-valve tracheotomy-tube. Morbid Growths of the Larynx. Alorbid growths rarely involve the skeleton of the larynx primarily. Some- times they are developed on the exterior surflice of the organ, but they occur much the most frequently in its interior. Occasionally they are both intra- laryngeal and extra-laryngeal. The greater number hy far are benign. Of the remainder, some are originally malign, while others become so secondaril}'. Benign Growths.—AVhile seventy cases of laryngeal morbid growth would most likely include the entire ante-laryngoscopic record, they have been re- ported to the number of thousands during the last twenG'-five years. They are less common in America than they appear to be in Europe. Their eti- ology is still obscure. IJsually referred to “colds” as the starting point.