INJUKIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 870 liy complete immmiity from svm})toms. In one case, a man whose ilenni was rent in two places walked to bed and undressed himseltd Key has recorded the case of a man who continued at work, carrying sacks of flour to a vessel, after traumatic rupture of the bowel in a hernia. Ifr. E. K. Sanborne had a patient who was struck on the abdomen by the handle of a hand-cart, and died in forty-six hours of complete rupture of the gut; hut he was able to wheel his cart across a yard after the blow.^ Dr. Bristowe^ records the case of a man who fell and suttered a circular laceration of the sigmoid flexure, half an inch in diameter, through which mucous membrane projected, and through which fetid gas and fecal matter had escaped into the peritoneal cavity. There had been no pain at first, and for three hours there liad been no collapse. The accident happened at 5.30 P.]\I., at 9 o’clock collapse came on, and at 1 A.Ai. he was dead. Complete division of the small intestine from a blow on the belly has been recorded, no effusion of the contents following. In one case tlie patient lived eight days, and, owing to the tight contraction of the circular fibres of each end of the divided gut, there Avas no escape of fecal matter.^ A similar, complete division of the cystic duct Avithout the escape of bile, Avill be referred to hereafter. Rupture of the intestine occurs at any part of the small or large bowel, from the commencement of the duodenum to the loAver part of the sigmoid flexure. The duodenkm being the most fixed portion of the intestine, might 1)0 thought to be most liable to rupture from injury; but its deep situation 1 )chind the liver and transverse mesocolon protects it. xVs a matter of fact, it is very rarely torn. I’oland’s'’ collection of 63 instances of riq;)tnred gut, con- tains only 4 cases of ruptured duodenum, all of Avhich Avere fatal at periods varying from live hours to three days after the injury. The jejunum Avas ruptured 14 times out of the 62. In 7 cases the rent was near the duodenum, and in 3 the jejunum had been forcibly torn aAvay at its junction Avith the duodenum, its most fixed point. In other cases of ruptured jejunum the rent Avas in the central oi’ loAver parts, and extended through from one-quarter to three-quarters of its circumference. The ileum seems to he about as fre- quently riq)tured as the jejunum, or even more so ; like the jejunum it may be completely torn across, or ruptured to any less extent of its circumference, ’rtie large intestine is not much more frequently ruptured than the duodenum or stomach, and very much less frequently than the jejunum or ileum. 44le cwcum is more liable to rupture than the ascending or descending colon. The sigmoid flexare itself may be ruptured, or it may be torn away from the i-ectum.® I’olaiKP quotes five cases of ruptured large intestine out of sixty- three of ruptured gut; of these five, tAvo were of the cjecum, tAvo of tlie sig- moid flexure, and one of the descending colon. Morineau® gives an instance of rupture of the uscending colond The rupture may A^ary in extent from a mere pin-hole, to a rent tAvo,’^ six,’* or moi'c inches long in the stomach, or to a complete tearing asunder of the gut, together Avith its mesentery. If the rent is incomplete or A'ery small, ' Poland, Guy’s Hospital llepoi’ts, 3d series, vol. iv. j). 155. 2 Aguew, Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. i. p. 35C. 2 Trans. Path. Soo. Loud., vol. ii. j). 04. ■* Ihid., vol. xii. p. 100. 5 Guy’s Hospital Picports, 3d series, vol. iv. jip. 123 et seij. ® Hole’s case. Lancet, vol. i. 1851, p. 381. ’’ Loc. cit. * Gaz. Med., p. 788. 1852. 9 For references to several other cases, see Medical and Surgical History of the War of the llebellion. Part Second, Surgical Volume, p. 22. To tlie vast amount of facts and references contained in this wonderful com}iilation 1 am deeply indebted. ■9 Collins, Boston Med. and Surgical .Tournal, vol. l.vxiii. p. 202. " Ro(pies, Jour. Gen. de M6d., etc., tome Ixv. p. 351,