890 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. niiglit be mistaken for peritonitis, though the history, mode of onset, and relief of pain by pressure, ought to clear up any doubts. Prognosis.—The more localized the peritonitis, the more hopeful the result; the more rapid the symptoms, the graver the case. When the jieritonitis is the result of direct injury limited to the peritoneum or parietes, the prognosis is more favorable than when it arises under other circumstances. When due to rupture or perforation of the viscera, or excited bj^ septic poison, death is almost certain. In most cases the fatal termination occurs within a week or ten days, or less. Sometimes death takes place during the height of the attendant fever; but more frequently the mode of death is by asthenia, the i-espiration and heart’s action becoming more and more feeble, until fatal collapse supervenes. Pain and even tympanites then become less marked ; the temperature falls below normal; the extremities feel cold and turn blue; the skin is clammy and unnatural to the touch; the pulse flickering, irregular, and too fast to count; the respiration is huri’ied, jerkjq and sighing ; the voice weak and whispering; and the expression one of helpless and imploring anxiety. Sometimes before, at, or immediately after death, a quantity of dark coloured fluid flows freely through the mouth and nose. Occasionally the acute symptoms of traumatic peritonitis subside, but leave the patient ill, with an abnormal temperature, great debility, and some local- ized collection of inflammatory fluid; this, after a variable time of further suflering, may burst, and, forming a communication with some hollow organ, recovery may afterwards ensue, or, on the other hand, death may occur from pyannia, septicaemia, or exhaustion. In mild cases of traumatic peritonitis, or if the inflammation be limited in extent, or the inflammatory products fibrinous or sero-fibrinous, or if the patient be young and of vigorous consti- tution, and judicious treatment have been adopted at an early period, recovery may take place ; but death may occur at any period after recovery from acute peritonitis, from the effects of adhesions or bands, the jiroducts of the inflam- mation. Constipation and complete intestinal obstruction are common con- sequences of these inflammatory adhesions. Treatment.—In the treatment of acute, traumatic, as well as of other forms of acute iieritonitis, it seems superfluous to enjoin absolute rest of the ab- dominal muscles, and perfect freedom from weight and pressure upon them, because the feelings of the patient will secure attention to these points, and nature herself does much to compass them. The application of leeches to the abdomen, as soon as pain sets in, followed by hot fomentations frequently applied, is the best local treatment. As many as twenty to thirty leeches, or more, may be used, if the patient be of a robust and healthy constitution. Local bleeding is much to be preferred to venesection, in peritonitis; but it is only of service in the early stages of the disease, and is not to be employed at all in the asthenic forms, such as occur after operations for hernia, ovari- otomjq and other abdominal operations. With the hot fomentations may be used the extract of conium, belladonna, or opium ; or turpentine stupes may be employed; cold compresses, or flannels wrung out of ice-cold water have been advocated, instead of hot applications, and perhaps, in the early stage of acute peritonitis, a more extended trial will prove their worth ; pain and nervous and intestinal irritability are said to be allayed by cold, nnd certainly the bloodvessels of the inflamed parts are contracted by it; but the sensations of the patient must in part guide the surgeon in the employment of cold as a remedy. In the later stages cold applications are out of the question, and hot should be used ; at a still later period, blisters, iodine, or mercurial pre- parations are sometimes useful in promoting the absorption of inflammatory products. The best internal remedy is opium, given in half or one grain doses every