427 TUMORS OF THE NOSE. rence is a rare one. Gross^ states that these tumors are hy far most common in young subjects, between the fifteenth and twenty-fifth years, and that neither his own experience nor recorded instances present any example in the female. To this latter statement, I must except that Marjolin^ reports the case of a girl, aged two, who died from the extension of such a growth, and Lincoln, eight additional cases in females f and one instance atleast is known of the growth occurring in a patient of fifty-five. Winter^ reports an instance in a foetus of seven months. Sands remarks that the dis- covery of a polypoid growth at either extreme of age Avould be presumptive evidence of its malignancy. ISTaso-pharyngeal polypi are much more fre- quent in males than in females (in 58 cases, 48 were males, 8 females, 2 not stated), and the precise causes of their origin are involved in complete ob- scurity. The main points in the diagnosis of these growths have elsewhere been touched upon. It will he sufficient to add here that malignant tumors of similar origin, intra-nasal fibrous polypi, and even syphilitic nodes and scrofu- lous abscesses, may, when located in the pharynx, simulate true naso-pha- ryngeal tumors. Cruveilhier reports a case in which a portion of the dura mater, thickened, exhibiting a fungous appearance, and containing parts of the arachnoid and pia mater, Avith cerebral substance and pus, formed a hernia through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; and Virchow a like one, in which the tumor penetrated the palate and protruded through the mouth. Such cases, though rare, may complicate the diagnosis. An important point to bear in mind is, that the region in Avhich true naso-pharyn- geal polypi can originate is one of narrow limits, corresponding Avith the margins of the posterior nares and the summit of the pharynx. (Sands.) Ti'eatment.—For the removal of the smaller fibrous poljq)!, any of the methods detailed Avhen speaking of the treatment of the gelatinoid variety, are applicable; hut Avhen the groAvth is large, and has invaded or displaced, not alone the nasal cavities, but likeAvise those in connection with them, more extensive operative procedures become necessary. In certain rare instances, naso-pharyngeal polypi have spontaneously sloughed away, or have separated from their attachments and been expelled. Such cases are i-eported by Johnson,® Birkett,® Saviard,’^ Bonnet, Yiniont,® and others.® Operative interference, by complete and radical extirpation of the groAvth, Avith its underlying parts and all extensions, is the only treatment upon Avhich absolute reliance can be placed, certainly in extreme cases. It may here be briefiy stated that the judgment of modern surgery is against recourse to the use of avulsion, ligature, and caustics, as means of eradicating these groAvths ; the reasons, based on experience, are a})parent to those familiar Avith the literature of the subject. The first method {avtdsion) is advocated by Schuh,^® Avho has had one successful case. Dupuytren, attempting tlie same j)roce- dure, lost his patient from hemorrhage. Cooper Forster" has seen it attended fjy fracture of the criijriform plate of the frontal bone, and death from general arachnitis and limited sloughing of the brain. Guerin’s^® plan seems no better, although it Avas attended by success in one case. The tumor Avas steadied by the left fore finger introduced behind the soft ])alate, and then torn from its base by means of a bone scraper infi'oducecl through the nose. Forster * System of Surgery, vol. li. p. 372. 2 des Hup., 25 Mai, 1861. ^ Arch, of Laryngology, vol. iv. No. iv. ■* ** Cxunther, Operationen am liaise, S. 311. ® Brit. Med. .Jour., vol. i. p. 61. 1858. 6 Brit. Med. Jour., vol. i. p. 119. 1858. ’ Reoueil d’ohs. chir., p. 112. Paris, 1784. ® Quoted by Brevet, op. cit., p. 16. Paris, 1855. 8 Masse, D’Ornellas, Durham. AViener med. Wochenschr., S. 99. 1865. ** Trans. Cliu. Soc. Loud., vol. iv. 1871. ^ Gazette des Hop., p. 144. 1865.