INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 324 syringe. They soon become putrid, and so increase the existing inflamma- tion. If instructions are given to pull the auricle upward and backward during the operation of syringing, a more perfect cleansing of the parts is often obtained. But if the canal is swollen and tender, as is very apt to be the case, even this procedure will aid very little in rendering the syringing successful in its results. Several years ago I devised an instrument which has been sold under the name of “Beynders's douche,” and which has been tried now for so long a time and so extensively that I feel no hesitation in recommending it as a very useful ear-syringe or douche. It consists of a soft- rubber bulb or reservoir, from one pole of which a short, flexible, rubber tube, eight or ten inches in length, leads to a hard-rubber tip or nozzle. Fig. 893. armed with lateral prongs that prevent the instrument from being pushed too far into the auditory canal.' This pronged nozzle, which constitutes the important part of the apparatus, is represented correctly in the accompany- ing illustration (Fig. 894). Instead of simple water I am in the habit of Fig. 894. Hard-rubber, pronged ear-nozzle; full size. using, by preference, a saturated solution of boraeic acid—two teaspoonfuls of the coarse crystals, or of the powdered acid, to the pint, or one tablespoonful to a litre of water. As boraeic acid does not dissolve readily in tepid water, it is better to employ water that is decidedly hot, and then allow it to cool down to the proper temperature (about 100°-105° Fahr.) before it is injected into tlie ear. For cleansing purposes, it will be suflicient to douche the ear three or four times a day at first, aiul then, as the discharge becomes less active, we may resort to this procedure less and less frequently. When the discharge has ap]ijarentiy ceased, and when the water that escapes from tbe ear during the douching procedure seems to be quite clear, we may venture to dispense with the instrument altogether. This is iierhaps the proper place at which to call attention to a remedial ' At tlie present time, the best modification of this donche, for sale in New York, is that manu- factured hy T. Angelo, of Thirty-first Street and Fourth Avenue. The bulb contains a decidedly larn-er amount of water than did that first manufactured, and soft, black rubber is now used in place of the coarse, white variety, for the tube which connects the nozzle with the reservoir. These modifications have materially increased the efficacy of the instrument.