476 INJUKIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. of these extensive deficiencies. "When a cancer of the lower lip occupies so large a portion of its margin that it cannot he excised by a Y-incision, allow- ing the opposite sides to be brought into contact and secured by sutures, a plastic operation is required for the reconstruction of the lip. When the disease involves nearly the whole of the vermilion border, hut does not extend very far towards the chin, the operation proposed by Buchanan may be per- formed with advantage. In this operation, the morbid growth is removed by a semicircular incision, and then a flap is cut on each side, bounded above by the incision referred to, below by a parallel curved incision, and within by an oblique incision extending on each side of the median line downward and outward from the upper to the lower curved incision. These flaps are drawn upward and inward so as to meet in the median line, and their upper margins are brought into contact with the upper lip, leaving a considerable chasm to granulate between their lower borders and the chin. (Bigs. 949 and 950.) This cliasm may sometimes be filled up by making an incision Fig. 949. Fig. 950. Buchanan’s operation for restoration of lower lip. through the integument of the neck, nearly parallel on the sides with the lower border of the chasm, but the two lateral portions as they approach the median line extending downwards and meeting at an acute angle in the median line. The flap thus made may be drawn upward to meet the upper margin of the chasm, and the sides of the triangular space below may be united by sutures. Instead of Buchanan’s operation, the tumor may he removed by including it in a quadrangular incision, bounded above by the free border of the lip, below by a horizontal line parallel with the free border, and on each side by a vertical line extending from the labial margin to the lower horizontal line. The two vertical lines are then extended downward below the base of the jaw, and the flaps thus formed are used to fill up the space 'which had been occupied by the excised portion of the lip. The objection to this mode of operating is that it is diflicult to prevent the new margin of the lip from sinking down ])elow its proper level. I think that this difliculty might be obviated by dividing the base of the flap into two lateral segments separated from each other by a triangular portion of integument, and then curving these lateral peduncles outward and upward so as to relievo the tension of the flap. The triangular chasm between the two peduncles could then be closed laterally by