823 WOUNDS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. into the neck, or through perforations of the bone either produced by tlie disease or congenitally present. It is therefore probable that traumatic abscess would take some similar route to the surface. The trephine may be necessary in the later stages of an abscess which has already opened exter- nally, for matter maybe retained in the mediastinum, and, the opening being above, as in Lamartiniere’s case quoted by Chassaignac,^ a dependent flow sufficient to drain the cavity may perhaps only in this way he obtainable. In the details of examples of shot-fracture of the sternum recorded in the History of the American AVar, but little prominence is given to the pljeno- mena of mediastinal abscess; indeed, in many there appears to have been but little proclivity to suppuration in the tissues of this region, even tliough exposed to such an extent as to render “•the arch of the aorta distinctly visible.” iSlor are these injuries in any way foremost in the bill of mortality. AVounds of the HIsophagus. In rare instances of penetrating wounds of the chest, the (esophagus has been wounded without lesion of any of its important surroundings. Both in gunshot injuries and in stabs, this accident has happened, the lung and pleura only being wounded in addition. The cases are so few that we are obliged to fall back on the only recorded example, unequivocal in its character, in which recovery has resulted. Boyer,^ who publishes the case, introduces the sulqect thus; “ AVounds of tlie (esophagus are very grave, but they are not always mortal. AA^hen the wound is limited and is not acconqianied b}^ a deep lesion of the lung, the patient may recover.” The case he records was that of an exciseman, aged 24, in robust health, who was stabbed with a bayonet in the upper and anterior part of the* right side of the cliest, in the discharge of his duty. He ran for liis life, followed by the offender whom he had discovered; he ran more than half a league without feeling pain in the wound, but shortly after coughed up some blood. An hour after the accident, when AI. Payen saw him, his condition was one of inexpressible agony. He lay on his right side, breathing with difficulty, and with pain in the whole right side of the chest, reaching to the hip. His pulse was rapid, and the least movement was difficult and painful. An angular wound of four lines in extent existed one inch from the sternum on the right side, between the third and fourth ribs. The wound was not bleeding, but at each expiration, and especially during a lit of coughing, the air escaped from it with a force sufficient to blow out a candle seven or eight inches off. The wound was dressed with a compress, and the patient was twice bled at the arm, wfth relief. Next day the pulse was strong, the pain still acute, tlie cough less frequent, but the breathing constantly labored. He was bled a third time as freely as before; he had ceased to spit blood. On the third day, when the compress, which had stuck to the wound, was detached, a great quantity of very red fluid, thinner than blood, escaped ; after this the breathing became easier. In the evening a similar discharge, equal to the first in quantity, occurred, and of the same character. This diminished the anxiety which had existed. From this time the fluid flowed constantly, esca[)ing by jets when the wound was open and the patient coughed. It continued to flow during many days in such abundance that a great number of towels were soaked in the twenty-four hours. From day to day the color of the fluid was less deep in tint. On the tenth day it was almost colorless. Although the iiatieiit drank much, his urine was scanty and very high colored, and loaded with deposit. “ I suspected then,” writes AI. Payen to Boyer, “ that the prodigious quantity of fluid which the wound furnished was derived from the drinks, which, instead of passing into the stomach, escaped into the right side of the chest through a wound in the central part of the thoracic course of the cesophagus. 1 Traite de la Suppuration, tome ii. p. 330. * Maladies Cliirurgicales, tie 6d. tome v. p. G70.