319 DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR. second group by the term sclerosis of the mucous membrane of the middle ear. Finally, we may place in the third group all those cases in wliich we are unable to discover any lesions of sufficient gravity to account for the marked impairment of the hearing. To explain the deafness in such cases, we are obliged to resort to mere guessing; there may he an anchylosis of the stapedio-vestibular joint, brought about by a rheumatic or other iniianimation of the annular ligament, or of the tendon and sheath of the stapedius mus- cle ; calcareous material may have been deposited in these structures, or in the secondary tympanic membrane at the round window, and thus an anchy- losis may have been produced ; an exostosis, or a more diffuse hyperostosis, may hamper the stirrup in its action, or may limit the excursions of the membrane at the round window; and, finally, the lesion may be located at some point in the course of the auditory nerve. All of these lesions have been found after death, but with our present knowledge we can only conjec- ture their existence during a patient’s lifetime. The prognosis., in chronic catarrh of the middle ear, is decidedly unfavor- able. In the cases which Ijeloug to the first group, the patient is very apt to hear better at one time than at another, and liy appropriate treatment we can sometimes improve the condition of the hearing to an appreciable degree. In cases belonging to the other two groups, however, and also in very many, })crbaps the majority, of those belonging to the first, we cannot encourage the patient to hope for any improvement. On the other haml, we may make the statement that, in veiy many cases, the progressive qualitj" of the disease is lacking: a certain degree of impairment of the hearing is reached, and then for years, perhaps for the remainder of one’s life, no further diminution takes place. If a more or less active naso-pharyngeal catarrh exists, with some conges- tion of the middle ear, the treatment appropriate for this condition must be adopted.* Some patients are much more anxious to be relieved of the dis- tressing tinnitus that often accoin})anies this affection, than of the deafness. If there are sufficient grounds for the fjelief that a sluggish gastric digestion is promoting the naso-pharyngeal irritation, and secondarily the tinnitus, we may sometimes materially diminish the severity of this distressing symptom by prescribing dilute nitro-muriatic acid, in doses (three tinies a day, imme- diately after meals) of from three to ten drops, to be taken in a sufficient quantity of water. In a few cases, the bromides afford some relief, and the same is true of counter-irritation behind the ear. Active out-door exercise will also be found beneficial in some cases. Chronic tinnitus is, in the main, about as incurable as cirrhosis of the liver. Acute Purulent Inflammation of the Middle Ear.—This form of inflam- mation of the middle ear, like the catarrhal vanety, usually owes its origin to an extension of the inflamniation from the naso-pharyngeal space to the tympanic cavity, byway of the Eustachian tube. In scarlet fevei’, smallpox, syphilis, diphtheria, and perhaps typlioid fever and measles, the inflammation peculiar to these diseases may develop primarily in the middle ear, in the same manner as it does in the pharynx and naso-phaiyngeal space. Exposure to cold is also a very common cause of the intlammation, and not a few cases owe their origin to bathing in salt water, some of which penetrates into the middle ear by way of the Eustachian tidie. The nasal douclie and the ])OS- terior nasal syringe sometimes act in the same way. The intlammation of the middle ear oliservcd in cerebro-spinal meningitis may be due in some in- stances, possibly in all, to an extension of the disease from the cranial cavity * See page 316.