INJURIES ANI) DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. G84 3 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. xxxiv. S. 236. ‘ Ibid., Bd. xlix. H. 2, S. 193. Impairment of the vesicular respiratory murmur is perhaps a constant pheno- menon ; its extinction is indicative of great occlusion of the canal. Accord- ing to Gerhardt, the head is apt to he held backivard in laryngeal constriction, and slightly depressed, with extended neck, in tracheal constriction. ' Rapidly progressing symptoms, developing within a few days or a few hours, are indicative of intrinsic stenosis of a temporary character. Slowh^ })rogressive symptoms, occupying weeks, months, or years, are indicative of permanent constriction, whether by compression or by occlusion. Symptoms developing during croup, diphtheria, measles, and scarlatina, are usually indicative of obstruction by pseudo-membrane, but may he due to paralysis of the dilating muscles of the glottis, or to spasm. Symptoms developing dining enteric fever are indicative of laryngeal perichondritis. Evidence of syphilis indicates gumma, or cicatricial constriction. Laryngoscopic or laryngo-tracheoscopic inspection is necessary to determine the seat and character of the lesion. The picture of stricture of the glottis caused by adhesion of the two arytenoid cartilages, is so much like that of paralysis of the posterior erico-arytenoid muscles, that the two conditions are liable to be confounded. Tuerck^ has described and illustrated the laiyngo- scopic image in several cases of compression-stenosis of the trachea, by tumors external to the tube. Compression-stenosis from involution of the trachea by aneurism of the arch of the aorta (Fig. 1047) and from acute bronchocele, has been recognized laryngoseopically by myself,^ and similar stenosis due to mediastinal tumor has been I'ecognized in the same manner by Pastau^ and by Riegel.^ An admirable illustration of concentric stricture of the trachea (Fig. 1048) has been given by Mackenzie.® Tracheal stricture, hoAvever, can by no means be always thus detected; but the positive absence of laryngeal Fig. 1047. Fig. 1048. Involution of trachea by aneurism of the arch of the Concentric constriction of the trachea. (Mackenzie.) aorta. Extreme inspiratory dyspnoea. olistruction, and lack of sufficient evidence of soui’ces of compression externally, strongly support the inference of intrinsic tracheal stricture. Instrumental exploration is sometimes the sole means of determining the presence of intra- tracheal stricture; but the manipulation is not always feasible. Laryngoseopically, carcinoma of the larynx in its early stages cannot be discriminated from chronic inflammatory tumefaction of the mucous mem- brane, or of the perichondrium. Any swelling existing externally, hoivever, wouhl he likely to be diffuse and painful if due to carcinoma, and circum- scribed and painful if due to perichondritis. 1 Op. oit., S. 507 u. folg. ® Op. cit., p. 536. ^ Op. cit., p. 595.