212 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. for a few minutes, stopping the hemorrhage at once. That done, a folded wet compress is placed over the closed lids, and a bandage tightly applied. Usually the loss of blood is next to nothing, and I have had serious hemor- rhage in but two cases. These were both in old people, and in both the bleeding was readily controlled by the finger passed firmly into the orbit. No sponge, cotton, or anything but the finger, should ever he inserted into the orbit. Treatment of Wounds of the Eyeball.—An incised, or even a lacerated wound of the conjunctiva, alone, very soon heals. When it is extensive, the edges should he ivell united with stitches. Even when a considerable por- tion is carried away, it slides and stretches so readily that the denuded sur- face is easily covered, as is done after the removal of a pterygium. The operation of syndectomy (removing a large zone of conjunctiva from the eye- ball, immediately around the cornea), sometimes practised for the relief of obstinate pannus and other diseases of the cornea, shows how extensive a surface may be covered in this manner. The same is true of the extensive removal of the reflected portions of the conjunctiva, as a mode of treating granular eyelids, gravely proposed and executed by a French oculist. I can- not believe, however, that such operations are justifiable, knowing the many disadvantages wliich result from the great contraction of the conjunctival surface that must follow. The restraints in moving the eyes I’esulting fi-om the marked symblepharon, and the inevitable dryness from impaired secretion, are not compensated for by the ends obtained. All surgeons knowtlie serious and incurable lesions of the conjunctiva and lids, resulting from destruction of granulations by caustics. These facts should guide us in saving all the conjunctiva possible in wounds and burns of that important membrane. Very serious after-etfects may follow wounds and losses of conjunctiva at the inner commissure of the lids. The cutting otf or tearing away of a canaliculus by a wound, gives rise to the most troublesome and often hopeless weeping, so that, if possible, this complication should he recognized and overcome by careful use of stitches, so that the permeability of the canaliculus may he restored. Burns in this region, for the same reason, are very serious, and often lead to e})iphora, entropium, trichiasis, and an endless train of troublesome consequences. Indeed, burns of the eye and lids, especially when extensive and deep, are most disastrous. The reaction folloivs very slowly, so that the prospects at first look hopeful; hut in a few Aveeks severe and persistent inflammation sets in, leading to uncontrollable adhesions hetiveen the lids and tlie ball, to opacities and perhaps perforation of the cornea, and to other lesions. One cannot he too guarded in the prognosis of such cases. Consequences inevitable from the first, are apt to be put doAvn to the credit of faulty treatment. Wounds of the conjunctiva, Avhen properly dressed, need no local remedies but Aveak detergents. No astringents or painful applications must be allowed. Of course, conjunctival wounds often exist as an impoi-tant complication of other deeper and more serious injuries, Avhich then command the chief attention. If a muscle he severed, or the sclera pene- trated, or if a dee]) Avound of the socket be present, these become objects of solicitude. Should a foreign body hang in the conjunctiA'a, or he lodged under it, diligent searcli must he made in order to its speedy removal. Sometimes, Avhen a small piece of steel or other substance has passed under the conjunc- tiva, it can only be removed by firm seizure Avith foi’ceps and snipping aAvay a small portion of the membrane Avitli it. Should a Avound of the conjunc- tiva exist AAuth a more or less serious injury of the lid or lids, the ]>roper and exact adjustment of the margins of the'wound is the chief point to be secured. The presence and seat of a Avound of the lid, or its entire absence,