DISEASES OF THE MASTOID PROCESS. 343 the mastoid cells. Unfortunately, it does not indicate how far the inflamma- tion has progressed, but this important fact can be ascertained approximately in other ways. For example, the degree of redness and swelling of the upper and posterior cutaneous wall of the auditory canal, in the neighborhood of the membrana tympaui, furnishes a safe criterion of the activity of tlie inflammation in the antrum. A glance at Fig. 902 will show how near the cavities are to each other at this point. The duration and severity of the pain, both in the mastoid region and throughout the entire side of the head, must also be remembered when Ave are endeavoring to decide in our minds what is the exact condition of the mastoid structures. In the presence, there- fore, of well-marked mastoid periostitis, of decided redness and appreciable swelling of the skin along the posterior and upper Avail of the meatus, close to the drum-membrane, and of a Instory of jiain behind the ear and through- out the entire side of the head for a period of not less than one Aveek, Ave may unhesitatingly assume that the inflammation of the antrum and pneu- matic cells has reached a stage in which pus has certainly formed in the antrum, and probably in many of the pneumatic cells. If a prolapse of the posterior and upper cutaneous Avail of the meatus has already taken place, Ave can feel confident that the disease has gone even farther, and that caries is liable to ensue at any time if it have not already occurred. This droop- ing or separation of the skin from that portion of the bony AA^all AAdiich serves at the same time as the floor or anterior Avail of the antrum, indicates a high degree of inflammation in this particular region of bone; and if the adjacent body of the mastoid process is still pneumatic—and, in the class of cases Avhich Ave are noAV considering, Ave liaAm a right to assume that it is still in that condition—it is scarcely conceiATilfle that it should not be parti- cijiating, to a more or less marked degree, in the inflammation. Treatment.—The moment Ave have gained a reasonably clear conception of Avhat is the nature and extent of the disease Avliich Ave are called upon to treat, the course which we ought to pursue lies clearly marked out before us. We should ask ourselves,first, this question: Is the outlet for the discharge, by Avay of the external auditory canal, as free as it can be made by any reasonable operative interference ? If obstructions still remain—if granula- tion-growths or masses of epidermis and pus Itlock the Avay, or if tlie opening in the membrana tympani be too small—these liindrances should be removed. Our next question should be: To Avhat stage has the inflammation of tlie mastoid structures progressed ? If Ave have reason to believe that the parts are simply congested, Ave may trust to the a])plication of from tAvo to five leeches, according to the age and strength of the patient, and afterAA^ard to a thoroughly carried out system of hot poulticing. The leeches may all be applied directly over the mastoid pi’ocess, or some of them may be applied at that point and the others directly in front of the outer orifice, as close as possible to the tragus. Rest in bed is a far more important feature of the successful treatment of these acute aftections of the ear than very many of us suppose. On the other hand, if our minds are somewhat in doubt about the AAMsdom of trusting to these siinjiler and less pOAverful measures, or if Ave have tried them and they have failed to relieve the pain, Ave should promptly resort to a “ W'ilde’s incision.” In this operation, the skin and subjacent tissues, including the periosteum, are divided by an incision extending from the base very nearly to the ajiex of the mastoid process, the external Avound measuring from three-fourths of an inch to an incli in length. If the patient’s head is in the erect position, the point of the knife should be intro- duced into the skin aliout on a level Avith the upper Avail of the external orifice of the auditory canal. If aa^c begin tbe incision higher up, AAm shall be apt to divide a branch of the posterior auricular artery, Avhich usually