INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 340 pathic, mastoid periostitis, althongli such a disease has been described by diftereut writers on otology. In actual practice we find that no two cases of mastoid disease are exactly alike. At the same time, it is not a difticult matter to distinguish amon^ them a few groups, in each of which there are certain distinguishing feature"! which belong to the members of the group in common. Formerly I made a subdivision of these cases into five groups, but I am satisfied now that it is a better plan not to recognize more than three types of mastoid disease. They are as follows; (1) Subacute, condensing, mastoid osteitis; (2) Acute, difi'use, mastoid osteitis ; (3) Chronic ulcerative infiammation of the mastoid antrum. These three groups differ materially from the three classes into which I have divided mastoid affections in my work on ear diseases. It is my belief and hope that this new subdivision, which simplifies the subject considerably, will enable the practitioner to arrive more cpiickly and surely at a correct diao'uosis. Subacute Condensing Mastoid Osteitis.—{Sde^vsis or Hyperostosis of the 31astoid Process.)—^It is only a short time since the independent nature of this affection has been made known to ns. It owes its origin to a chronic puru- lent infiammation of the antrum and other parts of the middle ear, but it may continue as an active disease for some time after the exciting cause has been removed. In very many cases it probably" runs its course without giving rise to any decided symptoms, but in other instances severe pain and outward evidences of mastoid periostitis accompaii}^ the disease and reveal its exist- ence to ns. The protracted, subacute infiammation of the mucous membrane which lines the pneumatic cells, and also probably of the connective tissue which fills the diploetic spaces, leads to the gradual filling up of both these cavities with bone substance. This form of osteitis rarely comes before us as a disease recpiiring treatment. It usuall^^ assumes importance when we are called upon to investigate and treat the other varieties of mastoid disease. The question is then sure to present itself; What is the condition of the mas- toid cells which lie between the antrum and the outer surface of the bone ? The following rule may safely guide us under these circumstances; If the history of the case reveal the previous existence of chronic purulent inflammation of tlie middle ear, we may assume that the mastoid cells have been greatly reduced in size, if not obliterated, by earlier attacks of subacute osteitis. In the few eases of condensing osteitis which are likely to come under our observation because they require treatment for the disease itself, we may very readily be led into the error of supposing that we are dealing with a case in which the essential lesion is an acute, difi'use, mastoid osteitis of a serious nature. The pain is sometimes so severe that no other diagnosis seems pos- sible. Under these circumstances, we may be guided by the following con- siderations ; If the case be one of simple, condensing, mastoid osteitis, our attention cannot fail to be drawn to the persistence of decided pain in and around the mastoid region, despite the existence of an adequate outlet in the drum-mendirane for the pus secreted in tlie middle ear, despite the absence of anytliing like an acute inflammation of the middle ear or external auditory canal, or, finally, despite the employment of such therapeutic measures as would be likely to allay any ordinary inflammation of the mastoid structures. Furthermore, if, in addition to the pain, there be redness, tenderness, and swelling of the mastoid integuments—in the supposed case which we are now considering—these manifestations inust be interpreted as furnishing corro- borative evidence of the existence of a persistent, subacute inflammation of the underlying bony structures. Actual enlargement of the bone itself may