180 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. to the optic nerve. Coming forward through the cushion of orbital fat, the recti muscles pierce this capsule obliquely by their tendons, and are loosely connected with it. The fascia of these muscles is likewise pretty firmly Fig. 854. I T7t The eye in its normal situation in the orbit, seen from in front. Lp. Levator palpebra? superioris ; i?5, Ri, Rm. Attachments of the straight muscles of the eyeball. Tr. Trochlea. Os. Tendon of the superior oblique mus_ cle. Oi. Inferior oblique muscle. (After Merkel.) connected to the outer surface of the capsule of Tenon, where they press iTjion it before passing through to reach the sclera. It is this arrangement that prevents a complete tenotomy from destroying all control of the muscle over the eye. It still rotates the eye through this indirect influence on the capsule and its insertion around the cornea. The movements produced by the isolated or combined action of these muscles, are rotations around a fixed point in the axis of vision, 13.54 mm. behind the centre of the cornea, near the physical centre of the globe. In moving the eyes right or left, in the horizontal level, one muscle only in each eye is called into play. The external moves the cornea directly outwards, and the internal, inwards. In moving the cornea directly up\fards, the superior rectus and inferior oblique combine in their action. In turning the cornea downwards, the inferior rectus and siqierior oblique work together. In all the oblique movements of the eyes, three muscles combine. In all movements below the horizontal level of the eyes, the superior oblique is brought into play. In all rotations upwards, the inferior oblique is active. The single action of the superior oblique rotates the cornea downwards and outwards, that of the inferior oblique upwards and outwards. The third nerve (oculo-motor) supplies the recti muscles (except the external), the infe- rior oblique, and the levator palpebrie superioris. The fourth (trochlearis) inspires the superior oblique, and the sixtli the external rectus. In no other part of the body do we so readily detect even slight niuscular disturbances, as in the rotatory movements of the eyes. Derangements that elsewhere would never be noticed, are here painfully forced on the attention