GASTRIC FISTUL.E. 957 result of simple ulcer as of cancer ; this is the reverse of what has been found in gastro-colic fistula. There are fistulfe which simulate the gastro-cutaneous; thus in Streeton’s' case of multiple ulcer of the duodenum, immediately beyond the pylorus, food escaped as soon as it had been swallowed, from the external opening situated between the seventh and eighth ribs of the right side, just below the right mamma. In a specimen in Charing-Cross Hospital Museum, there is to be seen a specimen of cancerous stricture of the colon, ivith a communication between the duodenum and colon above the stilcture, and another, through the abdominal parietes, with the surface near the umljilicus. In this case any fluid taken into the stomach passed at once from the duodenum into the colon, and thence within a few minutes to the surface. The situation of the external opening depends, in traumatic cases, upon the situation and oliliquity of tlie wound ; in St. Martin’s case it was lietween the left ribs, portions of which had been removed Ity the shot, and in Peicy’s case (Maillot) it was close to the ensiform cartilage; in Keith’s case (Catherine Ross), the opening, which was transversely oval, was situated in the epigas- tric and upper part of the umliilical regions. In cases resulting from disease, the i)Iace of external opening depends some- what on the region of the stomach in which the ulcer commences; thus if the disease is near the pylorus, the external o[)ening is generally near the um- bilicus ; if tiie ulcer is on the anterior surface, or near the fundus, the opening will be in the epigastric, or in the left h3’pochondriac region. Tire margins of the opening ai’e generally hard and rounded; but when the fistula is caused 1j3" cancer, ragged or even gangrenous ; sometimes the orifice is deeply retracted, so that it looks like a funnel. The skin around the fistula is usuall}^ red, tender, and even excoriated, owing to the irritation of the dis- charges. The size of the opening varies from something less than an inch to one and a half or two inches; in Catherine Ross it was four inches by three. It does not always remain of the original size; in some cases it increases; but generally', when there is a tendency to vary, it is towards narrowing. Upon the size depends Avhether the solid as well as the fluid contents of the stomach escape; if the opening is veiy small, fiuids onlj’ pass out; otherwise, whatever is swallowed escapes, unless some artificial contrivance prevents it. iSjjmptoms.—It is remarkable how little the general health is afiectcd liy the fistula. The principal effects which have been recorded are thirst, in- creased appetite, obstinate constipation, deficient secretion of urine, and arnenorrhcea. Tliese s^'mptonis are inostlj^ traceable to the escape of ingesta from the wound, Avhereliy thirst and hunger are excited, and the material which goes towards forming feces and urine is diverted from its proper channel. The fecal matter of these patients lias in several instances been like the droppings of shee}>, and only one stool has lieen passed in three, four, or even twelve daj's. The sense of hunger has sometimes amounted to actual pain. Vomiting appears to have been (piite exceptional. Prognosis.—In not a few instances patients have lived for many years with an open gastric fistula; in twelve out of twenty-five cases Avhich Murchison collected from the records of Medicine and Surgery for 300 years, the fistula and existed for varydng periods, from three y^ears upAvards. The length of time that a person may liveAvith a gastro-cutaneous fistula depends on its cause ; if due to cancer, the duration of life is of course short, from three Aveeks to several months; but if due to a simple ulcer, or to a Avound, it may last for years. Though wounds of the stomach are mostly fatal, recovery occasion- ally occurs, either Avith or Avithout fistula. A traumatic fistula may last a ' Loud. Med. ttazette, vol. iii. p. 43. 182'J. (Case XVI. in Murchison’s list.)