G62 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. slu’e at some point of the ]>ase of the tumor, the emphysematous sensa- tion of crepitus on pressure of the mass, and its diminution or disappearance under ecpiable compression, all point to the nature of the lesion. Palpation g-ives the sensation of a sac containing air.' Auscultation may reveal the normal tracheal murmur. (Devalz.) Tympanic resonance may be elicited on })ercussion in some cases. (Faucon, Lize, Detis.^) Tracheocele may be mis- taken for goitre. The distinction could be made by an exploratory puncture, for in Eldridge’s case the needle gave exit to a stream of air forcible enougli to extinguish a lighted match. Discrimination from circumscribed emphysema would depend chiefly on the discovery of a sac by palpation, but the distinc- tion from emphysema resulting from rupture at the summit of the lung, as in Lize’s case, might prove ditflcult. Prognosis.—This is said to be favorable by Detis, who reports a case cured after six weeks’ compression. Other records seem to indicate the hopeless- ness of doing much more than preventing increase of size. I^o danger to life, however, is to be apprehended. The supposed cures have occurred in cases of empliysema rather than of tracheocele. Treatment.—The treatment should consist in manipulation of the tumor, so as to drive as much air as possible out of it into the trachea, followed by the application of continuous pressure at the seat of control of the expansion of the tumor, so as to excite obliterative inflammation in the neck of the sac at the tracheal orifice. Dyspnoea may require special treatment by ano- dynes. Godefroy cured his patient within six weeks by permanent compres- sion with a sort of hernia-ltandage, and Leriche^, too, promptly cured his patient by compression. Others have simply advised the use of an appara- tus, to hide the deformity and prevent any further distension of the sac. Luxation of the Cartilages of the Larynx. Luxation of the cartilages of the larynx is rare. The cause may be trau- matic, and proceed from without, or may be pathological, and proceed from within. From without,\t is the result of direct violence; in most instances, perhaps, associated with fracture of the larynx. Disarticulation of an arytenoid car- tilage from the cricoid is the most usual form of the lesion. Disarticulation of the lower horn of the thyroid cartilage, in connection Avith other lesions, has been recorded by Holden' and mentioned by Mackenzie,® the cause in the former instance having been a severe l)low or kick during a drunken bratvl, and in the latter instance an accidental blow with the side of the hand. From within, the cause is usually cicatricial contraction of the overlying or adjacent soft parts. In two instances, re})orted by Stoerk,® of luxation ot the left arytenoid cartilage transversely inwards, the lesion was observed in adult males Avith falsetto AU)ices, and in both the dislocated aiqflenoid Avas seen laryngoscopically to be immensely tumefied, the opposite cartilage Iteing pushed out of position. The vocal bands AA'ere seen to be permanently in the position occupied in paral^^sis of the posterior crico-arytenoid mus- cles. One case Avas attributed to cicatricial contraction after diphtheria; hut no assignable cause could be detected for the other. A case supposed during life to have been one of paralysis of the muscles mentioned, Avas dis- covered after death to he one of dislocation of both aiytenoids on the interior * Fancoii, Eldriilge, (loc. cit.). ^ Op. cit. ^ D^tis, op. cit. < Am. Jour. Med. Sci., Jan. 1873, p. 129. ^ Op. cit., p. 541. ® Wien. mod. Wocli., No. 50, 1873 ; London Med. Record, May 15, 1879.