514 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAAVS, ETC. appearance of medullary cancer, and Avas reported l)y the committee to con- sist of cells and nuclei. The conclusion draAAui A\'as as folloAA’s: “ The opinion we formed is that the tumor A\^as essentially a cell-groAvth iiiA’ading and dis- placing the normal tissues, the cell-groAA'th forming ecpially the more obAuous cell-structure of the tumor and its fibrous portion. We may add that it seemed to us most probable that the larger forms of cells AA-ere developed out of the smaller forms, and that therefore the spongy portion of the tumor in Avhich the larger cells Avere most abundant represented a later phase of devel- opment than the homogeneous portion.”* In this case I noticed particularly a point which is not often seen, viz., the extent to which the portion of tongue left behind groAvs or becomes stretched. In the case in question, notwith- standing the extensive removal, the man some years after appeared to have a tongue of ordinary size, but rather more sessile in the mouth than normal. When recurrence of cancer takes place, the case is generally beyond sur- gical aid, the disease usually infiltrating the tissues of the mouth and of the neck to an extent which forbids any interference. It seems to me, hoAveA^er, that occasionally an attempt should be made to rescue the sufierer from an early and miserable death, as in the folloAving instance:— A man, aged sixty-two, was sent to me in 1875, with very extensive cancerous disease of the tongue and suhlingual tissues. In January, 1874, he noticed a swelling of one of the suhmaxillary glands, and soon after a sore beneath the tongue. The sore healed, and the gland subsided under treatment. In September, 1874, the gland began again to swell, and at last broke. At the same time he found that he had difficulty in articu- lating, as the tongue was fixed to the floor of the mouth, and eventually the tip of the tongue became fixed to the jaw. The latter condition was temporarily relieved by an operation at another hospital. On admission to University College Hospital, the patient was unable to protrude his tongue or move it in his mouth, the saliva constantly trickled aAvay, and articulation was very imperfect. He complained of great pain in the occi- pital region, but of none in the tongue. The gums of the incisor region were swollen and ulcerated, and the teeth loose. The tongue was fixed to the back of the incisive portion of the jaw, which was softened. All the tissues beneath the tongue were indu- rated, but the skin was not involved. On September 29, I removed tlie tongue, centre of the jaw, and all the sublingual tissues, by dividing the chin in the middle line, then sawing the jaAV through on each side, and, having isolated the tongue somewhat on each side, inclosing the Avhole of the disease with the Avire of the galvanic kcraseur. The parts removed consisted of the middle three inches of the lower jaw, nearly the whole of the tongue, and the sublin- gual muscles and glands en masse. At the posterior end, the mass measured two and a half inches in depth, and slightly more from side to side. The tongue appeared to be healthy except at the anterior part; and on the left side, just behind the tip, Avas a nodule of the size of a pea. Beneath tlie tongue Avas a mass of yellowish-white, firm tissue, Avith a granular surface, Avhich Avas continued quite up to the cut margin. This tissue, on microscopical examination, proved to be epithelioma. The patient made a good recovery, and Avas alive and Avell six years after the opera- tion. He recovered a surprising amount of poAver of deglutition, and of speech, due prin- cipally to the growth of the stump of the tongue already noticed. The occipital pain complained of by this patient is difficult of explanation, but it was entirely relieved by the operation. I have noticed it in other cases of cancer of the tongue.^ My friend and former pupil, Mr. Rusbton Parker,of LiA-erpool, has recorded^ tAVO cases in Avbicb be performed almost as extensive operations as in the foregoing case. In one patient, aged fifty-eight, be removed, in 1876, bait the tongue, parts of the upper and loAver jaAvs, the submaxillary glands, and a portion of the pharynx, for extensive epithelioma, the patient recovering, ' Pathological Society’s Transactions, vol. xx. ? Lancet, vol. i. 1876. 3 Medical Times and Gazette, December 1, 1877.