INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 924 recovered, the deep invariahly proved fatal.” Guthrie reniarks; ‘‘ I have seen cases of wounds from stabs and from musket-balls, which ought to have injured the spleen, from which the sufferers recovered; and I have acciden- tally seen, after death, cicatrices formed in the spleen, corresponding to the external marks indicative of a former wound.” Larrey saw tliree cases of wound of the spleen by steel weapons, all of which ended in recovery; Leveille, an instance of severe sabre wound of the spleen, which ended in recovery after intense peritonitis and prolonged sup- puration. Recovery after a lacerated wound of the spleen and other abdomi- nal injuries in a shepherd bo}% aged eleven, is reported by M. Sappey.^ Other cases of recovery after penetrating wounds of the spleen have been collected by Otis.^ ]\I. Legonest holds the uoav generally accepted view that though hemorrhage and peritonitis frerpicntlj^ cause death, yet recovery follows some severe splenic injuries. Gunshot wounds of the spleen, if of a minor degree, are often repaired, and sometimes not suspected ; and even extensive injuries, associated with loss of substance, are not necessarily fatal, or followed by any apparent cliange in the blood-making functions. Recovery may occur, though part of the bullet remain behind in the organ, as is proved by tlie case of the patient who died at Guy’s Hospital, from Jlright’s disease, four years after a shot wound of the colon. At the auto]is3% a piece of the bullet was found in the s})leen. Treatment.—The tirst indication is to check hemorrhage, the next to alla^y peritonitis. With the tirst object in view, the injured side should be strapped, as for fractured ribs, and tlie patient should tlien lie upon it. Iced drinks and ergot should be freelj’ given, and cold shonld be applied externally. If peritonitis supervene, it should be met as in cases of traumatic inflamma- tion of the peritoneum. Excision of the spleen, in some cases—in those especially in which the bleeding continues, or a large part of the organ is con- tused or nearl}^ broken off—may afford the best prospect of recovery. There is no reason wh}" sjdenectomy for traumatic destruction of the spleen shonld not he put on trial; tlie great mortality of the operation, hitherto, largeh' depends on its having been performed almost exclusively in cases of leuco- cythremia or of other morbid general conditions. Wounds of the 2mncreas and thoracic duct are not likely to be diagnosed, and the 011I3" interest attaching to them is this, that nearl}' everything about them has }'et to be discovered. Re^'ond knowing that a portion of the pancreas may be torn from the s])lenic arteiy and its other attachments, and protrude through an external wound, and, under such circumstanees, may lie removed without serious consequences, we know nothing except this, that after wounds of the pancreas, death, as a- rule, occurs from shock and peritonitis combined, or else from secondaiy hemoriliage; that life has heen prolonged for twelve davs or more; and that the lesions have occurred with- out being suspected. John Bell’s strictures on his namesake’s (Benjamin Bell’s) comments on wounds of the pancreas and receptaculum clyli, as on man}* other subjects, are well known to the student of surgical literature; and here, as elsewhere, they are based quite as much upon conjecture, instead of experience of the special matter in question, as the remarks lie so vigoronslj^ attempts to refute. Injustice to Benjamin Bell, it should be noticed that he says, “an}’ injury done to the pancreas can seldom lie discovered;” and if actual ex]>e- rience has not proved him right in supposing that division of the duct of the gland will interrupt digestion, or that the clyle or pancreatic fluid will form ' L’Uiiiou Mfiilicale, ii. s., t. xxi. pp. 408, 4G9. 1804. 2 Op. cit., Part Second, Surgical Volume, p. 150.