420 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. nerve. (Other less tenable theories, it may he here stated, are advanced.) It has been objected that this implies peripheral irritation producing central dis- turbance, thence reflected to the nerve of suppl}^ and to the part atiected—that is, an impression conveyed from the origin of the fifth nerve to the origin of the pneumogastric. But Porter remarks, that even were this true it would not disprove the theory ; and he adds, that there is a more direct line of com- munication. The pneumogastric, though in its origin a sensory nerve, receives motor tilaments from the seventh, or portio dura (to auricular branch), from the spinal accessory (to ganglion of the root), from the hypoglossal (to ganglion of the trunk), and from the first and second cervical nerves. As the contiguity of the origin of the cranial nerves is now demonstrated, it is reasonable to sup- pose that impressions may be conveyed from the origin of the fifth nerve directly to the origin of any of these, and thence by a continuous motor-tract to the pneumogastric. The original and direct cause of the irritation does not ai’ise in the polypus itself, in cases Avhere it is present; this is impossible, as the ordinary gelatinous pol}qji are destitute of nerves, and can therefore, as J. H. Mackenzie justly observes,* only awaken reflex phenomena in an indirect or mechanical man- ner. They do so then only when they spring from, or, much more commonly, by their position, form, etc., are brought in contact with, the erectile tissue covering the inferior turbinated bones, and especially their posterior extremi- ties. By acting here as a mechanical irritant, they cause engorgement of the mucous membrane and erectile cells, and thereby excite the chain of reflex action described above. Aside from asthma, reflex cough has recently been recognized as a symp- tom of a number of pathological conditions, aftecting especially the ei’ectile tissue covering the posterior extremities of the turbinated bones, but J. X. Mackenzie^ has called attention to the direct influence of nasal polj’pi in its production. The cough is only present, he tells us, when the growths are brought in contact with the erectile area alluded to above, and thus excite reflex action and produce explosive cough. The probability of cough excita- tion will mainly depend therefore, other things being equal, upon the position of the growth. In regard to the mechanism of the reflex, two explanations are given; either the assumption of the correlation of the nasal erectile area and the inter-arytenoid space (laryngeal cough centre), by virtue of Avhich irritation and vascular engorgement of the former may lead to hyperaemia of the latter through the medium of the vaso-dilator nerves, through the supe- rior cervical ganglion, and to the consequent production of a larjmgeal cough ; or the direct transmission of the irritation through the spheno-palatine nerves to the medulla, and its immediate reflection outwards to the muscles con- cerned in the expiratory act.® As has been said, the removal of the polypus, or other occluding cause, from the nasal passage, has, in the majority of instances reported, been effec- tual in curing the asthmatic complications and the cough, ivithout recourse being had to further measures. It is advisable that this should be done at an early date, to prevent any possible change in the texture of the lung tissue, or the occurrence of chronic hyperiemia. General Diagnosis.—By means of a skilful anterior and posterior rhino- scopic examination, the observer is almost always in a position not only to diag- nosticate accurately the fact of the presence of a growth within the nasal l>assage, but likeivise to determine its location, extent, and not unfroquently the nature of its attachment, and, from its appearances alone, its pathological ■ Medical Record, May 3, 1884. ® See section on Nasal Cougli, p. 438. 2 Loc. cit.