138 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD, remain. In a case where the coverings of the sac were sloughing, Mr. An- nandale^ ligatured the mass; a cure followed. (2) Encephalocele.—If there be duid in the sac, by the increase of which perforation is threatened, the case may be treated as one of meningocele, as far only as repeated tappings are concerned. If the case be one of simple encephalocele, gentle pressure should be tried in reducible cases, and pro- tection adopted in those that are irreducible. In one case, at least, pressure has induced cure.^ (3) Hydreneep)halocele.—These tumors can only be treated by protecting them from injury or undue pressure. All operations, save puncture to pre- vent a threatened rupture, would be impracticable. Several cases are recorded where meningoceles, and even encephaloceles, have been cut into by mistake, and a cure of the tumor resulted. Such cases should, however, be regarded rather as warnings than as examples for practice. Diseases of the Skull, etc. Pericranitis and Cranitis. (Osteo-periostifis.)—The term pericranitis is applied to indammations of the pericranium, the term cranitis to an inflam- mation of the bones of the skull. From a pathological and a clinical point of view, however, it is both difficult and inadvisable to consider these two affections apart from one another. In the great majority of instances of peri- cranitis, the subjacent bone is already inflamed, and the mischief in the mem- brane is secondary to the mischief in the bone. Primary pericranitis is an affection by no means of common occurrence, and inasmuch as inflammations of the bone and of the membrane on its outer surface are so intimately asso- ciated, it is more convenient to consider them together under the title of osteo-periostitis. It must be remembered that the pericranium does not hold those important relations to the bone it covers that exist between the periosteum and the bones of other parts of the body. The principal blood-supply of the skull bones is derived from the vessels supported by the dura mater. These bones are, therefore, to a great extent, independent of the support afforded by the pericranium, a fact illustrated by those cases in which little or no bone mischief has followed upon extensive separation of this outer membrane. Osteo-periostitis of the skull may lie acute or chronic. I. Acute Osteo-periostitis.—Etiology.—The commonest cause of this form is injury, especially a lesion that directly injures or exposes the bone, or that is associated with impacted foreign substances of any kind. It not infrefjuentl}" follows from wounds, the discharges of which have become retained or offensive. It may be due to the spreading of a like mis- chief from neigliboring parts, from the bones of the face, orbit, or ear. In some rare cases, acute osteo-periostitis has been set up by the invasion of the bone or periosteum by a spreading ulcer of the scalp. It has been asserted that this affection may be of purely spontaneous origin, and may be due to exposure to cold, to rheumatism, to gout, and to syphilis; but the facts brought forward in support of these assertions are, it must be confessed, somewhat meagre. Pathology.—The pericranium becomes congested, softened, and thickened, and dissected from the subjacent bone by a varying amount of inflam- 1 Edinburgh Medical Journal, April, 1867. 2 Case recorded by M. Ferrand, loc. cit., p. 125.