SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. 1089 appetite, and constipated bowels. The nrine is passed in normal and often in excessive quantity, and contains mucus and pus in varying amount, with hyaline, granular, or pus casts. When acute nephritis passes into the suppu- rative condition, the urine becomes very otfensive; pus, and often blood in small amount, are mixed with it, and renal epithelium and pus casts are some- times found in large quantity. AVlien “ surgical kidney” results from some obstructive condition of long standing, and comes-on in persons of, or beyond, middle age, there is very generally a deficiency in the elimination ot urea, so that the urine, besides the other changes noticed, is of low specific gravitju As the disease advances, the skin becomes sallow or miuldy-looking, tlie memory and intelligence show signs of Avaning, the patient, though droAvsy, is I’estless, and as the end approaches he passes into a comatose condition, hut Avithout the convulsive seizures and other marked symptoms of typical urremic poisoning. In some cases of surgical kidney—as, for example, Avhen acute sup}»urativo nephritis occurs in a kidney, the suliject of hydronephrosis and chronic inter- stitial nephritis—tlie attacks of pyrexia assume an intermittent character, last a feAv days, and then pass off for a feAV days or a AVeek; and each attack corresponds Avith, and indeed is a sign of the subjection of a fresh area of the kidney to, inflammation and suppuration. Iluring the attacks, the tempei’a- ture Avill reach 102° to 103° F. at night, and 100° to 101° F. in the moridng ; the pulse is quick; the appetite is lost; the tongue is dry, coated, and foul; the hoAvels are constipated; the skin is dry and pungent; and there is flatulent distension of the stomach and intestines. During the intervals hetAveen the pyrexial attacks, the genend condition improves, and the patient is less depressed mentally as Avell as physically. After five or six of these feverish periods—the interval betAveen them shortening as they recur—the patient gradually passes into a state of low continued fever, and death, partially by coma, partially by asthenia, carries him otf. In other cases the symptoms assume a p}oemlc or septictemic nature. The prognosis of surgical kidney de])ends upon its cause and upon tlie character of the induced renal disease. If the cause he removable or remedi- able, and if suppuration in the sulistance of the kidney have not commenced, recovery Avith a more or less damaged kidney may ensue. But if the cause of tlie disease is irremediable, as in cancer of the uterus or Idadder, or if sup- ]iuratiAm nephritis has commenced, a fatal termination must lie looked for. When feverishness follows, tlie use of the catheter, or any operative procedure, upon a person Avhose kidnej’S have been already damaged by chronic inter- stitial nephritis, alarm should he occasioned; and if the feverish syniptoms continue, or intermit, an evil ending may he expected. Treafnnevt.—Prophylactic treatment is most essential. The cause of the obstruction to the outfioAv of urine should lie removed if jAossihle ; and if this is not possible—and in many conditions, as, for example, in enlarged prostate, it is not—-the enqiloyment of the catheter to prevent distension by retention of urine, and irrigation of the bladder to obviate the ill consequences of putretac- tive changes in the urine and mucous secretion, should he had recourse to early. .^Vt the same time, care must he exercised against the risk of introducing any source of poison Avith the catheter; and to this end the instrument should he kept scru[)ulously clean, and before its introduction should he anointed Avith })ure Avhite Auaseliue, or Avith carholized oil or glycerine (1 jmrt in IG); and it should not he used h}^ any one avIio is at the same time visiting infectious cases, except after carefully changing his clothes and disinfecting himself. By neglect of these j)recautions, there is reason to believe that poison has been conveyed from an erysipelatous or scarlet-fever patient, or from one Avith whitlow or some ofleusive Avound, to another Avho, Avithout organic disease VOL. v.—69