1026 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. direct continuity of inflammatory action. Inflammation beginning in the pelvic cellular tissue is anatomically prone to spread to the iliac fossa. Diagnosis.—The ilio-pelvie abscess has often been mistaken for pelvic peri- tonitis, and sometimes for ilio-psoas, or psoas abscess. In iliac aliscess, the constitutional disturbance is for a time often very slight; it is only after prolonged suffering or su})puration that the digestive organs fail, and that the patient emaciates or becomes hectic. In pelvic peritonitis, on the other hand, fever, vomiting, and hiccough, are early and severe symptoms ; and whatever swelling is appreciable is in the vaginal cvl-de-sac., not in the iliac fossa, and rarely in the hypogastrium, except in those cases already referred to in which circumscril)ed peritoneal abscess occurs from cancerous enlargement and ulcei'ation of the uterus. The swelling, moreover, in pelvic peritonitis is doughy in eliaracter, not hard, resisting, or elastic. Pelvic peritonitis is always symptomatic, and is most frecpiently brought about by inflammation of the ovaries or Fallopian tubes; hence, in doubtful cases, the coexistence of some affection of tliese organs favors the diagnosis of perito- nitis rather tlian that of ilio-pelvic abscess. The tumor which it forms is due to matting together, as a conserpience of the inflammation, of the intra-pelvic viscera; and the purulent collections, when sucli occur in cases of pelvic peri- tonitis, are intra-peritoneal, not in the cellular tissue of the pelvis or iliac fossa. Jarjavay,^ Lefort, and Goupil have demonstrated four layers of apon- eurosis within the u}>per part of the broad ligaments, constituting a kind of ffbrous frame of the upper border and determining its shape, and completely shutting off the organs contained witliin it—viz., the tubo-ovarian apparatus, the round ligament, and tlie utero-ovarian vessels—from the cellular tissue situated within the external or serous envelop of the ligament. Thus, as M. Bernutz^ points out, abscesses developed in the cellular tissue of the broad ligament are Ijekwv this aponeurotic sheath of the Falloinan tube and ovary, and the pus almost necessarily tends towards the abdominal walls, or else to the deep iliac fossa. In acute cases of iliac and ilio-pelvic abscess, especially some of those which are caused by injury, the symptoms are, however, severe from the first, and do not subside until pus is evacuated either into the bowel, bladder, or vagina, or externally. Dr. Bowditch^ has published a case which is illus- trative of the truth of this statement, as well as instructive from the point of view of prognosis and diagnosis ;— A slater, aged tvventy-tive, was admitted into the Massachusetts General Hospital, having fallen a height of thirty feet, striking his face and hands. Intense pain in the lumbar and umbilical regions, with bloody urine, removed by the catheter, were the immediate symptoms. He continued to grow worse, tlie pain was violent, the abdomen was tympanitic and very tender, induration formed in the left lumbar and hypochondriac regions, and an inclination to point was evinced in the left inguinal region at the end of the fourth week from the injury. On introducing a tube into the rectum to relieve the flatulent distension of the bowels, a large quantity of pus and mucus, and a little feces came away. The swelling in the inguinal region and general tympanites nearly wholly disappeared thereupon ; but pus continued to be discharged daily from the rectum, and the patient left, “ much relieved,” within two months from the accident. But he never recovered. Six months afterwards he was phthisical; in another month, he again had severe pain in the left groin, and in still another month, or thereabouts, “ a tumor, tym- panitic, disappearing on pressure, painful, and gurgling” rvas detected in the left groin, and diagnosed to be psoas abscess. The patient died within eleven months of the injury, 1 Anatomie Cliirnrgicale, t. ii. p. 596. 2 Beriuitz and Goupil, Clinical Memoirs on the Diseases of Women, New Sydenham Society’s Transl., vol. ii. p. 4. 3 First Med. and Surg. Report of the Boston City Hospital, p. 64. 1870.