INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. Dupiiytren gives tlie results in 41 operations performed liy liimself, Lalle- mand, and others; 3 patients died, 1 from fecal etiiision, 1 from indigestion, 1 from peritonitis; 9 had fistula remaining; 29 were completely and perma- nently cured, in periods varying from two to six months. Colic, nausea, and vomiting occurred in some of the 38 cases of recovery, Init the majority of the }iatients did not suffer any severe s^’inptoms. I n three-fourths of the cases thus operated upon, the false anus was caused liy gangrenous hernia; in the other one-fourth by wounds of the abdomen, with loss of substance of the bowel, lleimann,* of Dornhan, gives statistics of 84 cases of “ artificial,” that is, false anus, treated by Dupuytren’s method. In 7G of the 84 cases the result was more or less favorable; in 50 the opening completely healed u}); in 26 a small fistula was left, which could be well closed with a compress, and the patients could resume even arduous occupations. In one of the 8 fatal cases, resection of the bowel had been subsequently performed. If this case is excluded, we liave 83 cases with only seven deaths, a mortality of about 8.5 per cent., Avhieh compares most favorahl}’ with the 37 to 50 |ier cent, mortality of resection of the bowel mentioned further on, and shows Dupuytren’s method to he a very successful operation, and one whidi ought to l)e preferred to a decidedl}^ much more dangerous, if much more rapid procedure. Blasius, Liotard, Delpcch, Reybard, Gross, and others have moditied Dupuytren’s Fig. 1120. Fig. 1121. Reybard’s enterotome. Gross’s enterotome. enterotome, and Johert, who recorded several unfavorable results with Dupuytren’s insti’ument, proposed to appl}’ it only with the view of obtain- ing adhesion, and not division of the septum. It has been pointed out by several wi’itei’s on the subject, that adhesive inffammation does not alwa}’s take place at the periphery of the enterotome, even after it has been applied in the most judicious manner; and further, that in some cases it is almost impossible not to include between the branches of the instrument some free loop of sound intestine. And yet, from Dr. Ilei- mann’s statistics, it a}»pears that in onl}’ two cases (Dupuytren’s and Ghe- rinis’s) did perforation occur, and in only one did death result from perito- nitis extending from the portion of peritoneum included in the clamp. Ilcimann, as others before him have done, points out the danger of employ- ing the enterotome too soon after the establishment of the false anus, and the adVisability of screwing it u[) gi’adiially, so that only a small portion of the spur may be compressed each time. The existence of a spur should of course be ascertained before having recourse to this mode of treatment. The persistence of fecal listula in a certain i)roportion of cases operated upon, Avas recognized and regretted by Dupuytren, Avho urged his juniors to set to Avork and rind a means of promptly, and Avithout danger, causing an opening in the skin, Avhon useless, to cicatrize, in all cases. IMr. A. K. Barker, of University College Hospital, Jjondon, has adopted a plan described and ff<rured by liimself in the Lancet.- After dividing the cperon Avith Loud. Med. Record, May, 1883, p. 187. ^ Lancet, Dec. 18, 1880, p. 971.