DISEASES OF THE MASTOID PROCESS. 337 Toynbee. It opens anteriorly, by a comparatively large mouth, into the tympanum proper. Its floor usually lies at a higher level than that of the tympanum. Its walls present a honeycombed appearance, which is due to the presence of numerous openings leading into the surrounding pneumatic Fig. 900. Extensive distribution of mastoid cells. cells. A medium-sized pea ivould probably fill the antrum. Pneumatic cells are found on the inner and posterior sides of this cavity as well as on its-outer side. They also extend to a considerable depth beneath its floor. In fact, they are absent only along tlie roof of the cavity. At tins point a comparatively tliin lamina of dense bone, often less than a millimetre in thickness, serves as a dividing partition between the dura mater above and the tympanic mucous membrane below. The distance from the posterior extremity of the antrum to tlie groove for the lateral sinus, varies from three to six millimetres (see Fig. 899j; tliat from the outer wall of the cavity to the outer surface of the bone, varies from twelve to twenty millimetres (one- half to three-fourths of an inch). In cases of hyperostosis tlie antrum may be found to lie at even a greater distance from the outer surface of the bone. Finally, there are several points at which the bone surrounding the antrum is pierced by small channels which give passage to bloodvessels and lymph- vessels, and their sher ths of connective tissue. The most important of these are; the jietro-squarnous fissure, which crosses the bony roof that is common to both cavities (the tympanum and the antrum); and the channels for the mastoid emissary veins, which traverse the bone from within outward. One of these canals commonly opens near the centre of the outer surface of the process, about on a level with the upper wall of the external auditory canal. Minute bloodvessels pass from the mucous membrane of the middle ear to the dura mater by way of the ])etro-srpiamons fissure, and by tlie same route an inflammation may siu’cad from the ear to the brain. The redness, tender- ness, and swelling of the mastoid integuments, in cases of inflammation of the VOL. V.—22