INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 106 was produced by a fracture of the cranial base.* Still more striking as an illustration is the following;— A man, aged forty years, fell from a height of twelve metres upon his feet. He experienced only some slight symptoms of concussion. Omitting unnecessary details, among his other symptoms he had internal squint of the right eye. Dying about four months subsequently, an extensive fracture was found, implicating the clinoid processes and the right petrous bone, a considerable fragment of which was entirely detached from the rest of the skull. The sixth nerve was torn by the edge of the broken bone.^ Seventh Pair; Facial and Auditory ]STerves.—(1) Poy'tio Dura or Facial Nerve.—The long, bony canal in which the greater part of the intracranial segment of the facial nerve is lodged, occupying as it does the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone, renders its tearing or compression an almost necessary consecptence of fractures of the middle fossae of the skull. Indeed, jiaraly^sis of this nerve has been from time out of mind considered to be a valuable sign of fracture of the base of the skull. Loss of function of this nerve is, however, not conclusive proof that a fissure has traversed its bony canal, for it may be due, as in a case observed by Hewett, to the pressure of a small clot of blood in the common sheath between the facial and auditoi-y nerves. Again, in undoubted fracture this nerve may not be afiected at first, showing that its paralysis in basal fracture may be due to mere irrita- tion by the broken fragments and subsecpient inflammatory pressure, rather than to tearing, thus explaining—remembering that absorl)able blood-clot may also compress the facial nerve—the gradual recovery of function that may ensue after the most strongly-marked paralysis. Pick reports that of ten cases of facial paralysis after basal fracture, in only two was it present at the time of the patient’s admission into the hospital, while in the remaining eight cases the nerve-atiection appeared from the second to the sixth day.^ (2) Po7'tio Mollis or Auditory Nerve.—For similar anatomical reasons to those given for the facial, the auditory nerve is not uncommonly injured in fractures of the cranial base. Recovery from such injuries being rare, it is not often that deafness from fractured skull is observed. The following case, reported by Aran,* illustrates how the portio mollis may be torn while the portio dura of the seventh pair remains intact, although included in the same bony canal for a part of its course. Tbe reverse is also efjually true, but is explicable by the longer and more tortuous course pur- sued by the facial nerve through the temporal bone. A young man fell from a lieiglit of twenty feet, and lost consciousness. On the fifth day, a fracture of the temporal bone was diagnosed from symptoms which I need not detail. Death took place on the sixth day, and at the autopsy, among other injuries, a fissure was found traversing the petrous bone so as to tear the auditory nerve. Eighth and Ninth Pairs ; Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric, Spinal Accessory, and Hypoglossal Nerves.—Intracranial injuries of these nerves are of rare occurrence, owing to their passage through short, bony foramina, the first three in conjunction with the large, soft, compressible jugular vein. These are also protected in their intracranial course by one of the largest of the subarachnoidean spaces, which is filled with a fluid that readily becomes displaced when blood is extravasated. After persisting for a time, symptoms due to traumatic afieetions of these nerves may disappear. Owing to the emergence of the three first mentioned nerves through the same foramen, their afieetions must be considered more or less together. 1 Arch. Gen de Med., 4e ser., tome vi. p. 338. ® British Med. Journ., vol. i. p. 530. 1865. 2 Ibid., p. 191. ■* Aran, loc. cit.