DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. BY GEORGE M. LEFFERTS, M.A., M.D., CLINICAL PROFESSOK OF LARYNGOSCOPY AND DISEASES OF THE THROAT IN THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS, MEDICAL DEPARTMENT OF COLUMBIA COLLEGE, NEW YORK ; CONSULTING LAKYNGOSCOPIC SURGEON TO ST, LUKE’S HOSPITAL, ETC, Introduction : Description of Instruments, etc. The direct, visual examination of the nasal passages and ujiper pharyngeal space, first undertaken and rendered possible, by means of his “light-con- ductor,” by Bozzini, was an ol)solete art until amplified and rendered readily practicable by tlie genius of Czermak, and still further elaliorated and better utilized, both from a pathological and therapeutical standpoint, by Fraenkel and Michel, and especially hy Voltolini and Zaufal. The method introduced by Czermak is that generally employed to-da}^, the innumerable modifica- tions which represent the inventive ingenuity of many specialists yielding upon practical trial to the more simple, yet fully as efticient, method and apparatus of the first-named operator. Complete rhinoscopy consists in lioth the direct inspection of the nasal passages anteriorly, through tlie nostrils held dilated by means of a suitable speculum, and the examination of the posterior poi’tions of the same passages, the supra-palatine walls and tlieir contents, the posterior surface of tlie velum, and the upper pharyngeal space, with the necessary aid of a Small mirror which is introduced through the mouth, and which is held in a position midway between the relaxed soft palate and the posterior pharyngeal wall. The former method may pro[ierly be designated anterior rhinoscoj^>y and the latter posterior rhinoscopy^ or, more exactly, pharynyo-r hinoscopy. Instruments for Examination of the Nasal Cavities.—These are but few and simple; (1) A forehead reflector and (2) an argand gas-burner, or some ec[ually efficient source of illumination; and in addition, for anterior rhinoscopy, (3) a nasal speculum; and for the posterior examination, (4) a small mirror and (5) a tongue spatula. The /breAmeZ rejector is a round, slightly concave mirror, either three and a half or four inches in diameter, with a perforation in its centre, or with the glass simply left unsilvered at that point. Its focal distance should he about fifteen inches. It is attached either to an elastic headband, with ball-and-socket support (Kramer), or to a spectacle frame (Mackenzie), and may be worn over either eye, or upon the foreheatl; the firmer method is the more correct one, and the right eye is to be preferred. lllummatioi).—The form of “ light” apparatus that shall he employed depends upon the choice of the surgeon ; this may have a wide range, for the ( 350 )