DISEASES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. 377 The main symptom is the increaseci discharge of mucus or muco-pus, which, being semi-fluid and thin, is easily removed by blowing the nose, or by being drawn back into the pharynx and thence expectorated. There is no thicken- ing of the mucous membrane, and consequently no obstruction to nasal respiration and no change in the voice. The disease being confined, as a rule, to the respiratory portion of the nasal passage, the sense of smell suffers no- interference, and, the membrane being soft and moist, there is no tendency to the accumulation of secretions into crusts, nor to decomposition. The main importance of the affection then, its symptomatology being but slight and giving rise to no annoyance, lies in its tendency to progress into the further and more serious forms of catarrh unless it be promptly arrested by judicious treatment. Rhinoscopic examination will show a reddened and congested mucous membrane flecked with mucus, throughout the nasal passages. At the vault of the pharynx the appearances are more marked, and the glan- dular structures here present are swollen and covered by a thicker and more tenacious mucus. Aside from meeting any indications for constitutional remedies that may exist in a given case, the treatment lies—and the statement is true for the large majority of instances—solely in the local application of medicaments, in spray or powder, to the afiected nasal passages. To insure the successful use of these, thorough preliminary cleansing of the ^lassages is requisite. This may be accomplished, perhaps, by the patient using his handkerchief, unaided by any form of artificial apparatus. Should the latter, however, be found necessary to effect the complete removal of the secretions—-and I repeat that an apparatus is much oftener used than is really needed (see page 366)—the coarse spray-producer, already dascribed, may be employed with an alkaline, cleansing solution to the best advantage (see Fig. 920); rarely, if ever, in this form of the disease, is the posterior nasal syringe required. Following the cleansing process, which must be undertaken hy physician or patient with at first daily, and then gradually diminishing, frequency, the next step consists in the application of the medicamcjit, usually a mild alterative, resolvent, or astringent solution or powder. If the spray apparatus in one of its forms— preferably the spray with compressed air as the motive power—be chosen as the means, someone of the following solutions may be used with the anterior or the posterior nasal s[)ray-tube, or both, and should be selected with due deliberation, hi view of the special indications presented by the case, care being exercised that the application is of such a strength as to cause no irri- tation of the nasal mucous membrane, one much more susceptible than that of either pharynx or larynx, A preliminary, caTeful trial with the chosen solution or powder will quickly serve to prove the membrane’s peculiar sus- ceptibility, in a given ease, to both the, drug and its strength, and such a trial should lie made in every instance. The following are the solutions that I most commonly use, given in the order of their preference: (1) Zinci iodidi, gr. x-f§j; (2) Zinci sulpho-carbolat., gr. ij-fgj; (3) Zinci sulphat., gr. v-fsj; (4) Ferri et ammonii suljihat., gr. iv-f5j; (5) Ferri perchloridi, gr. v-f§j; (6) Acidi tannici, gr. v-xx-fsj ; (7) I’otassii chlorat., 9j-fsj. In any one of these formulfe, “ Listerine”^ may lie substituted, in part, for the water, in the proportion of one part of the former to three of the latter. If the sim])le rhinitis has advanced far towards the hypertrophic stage, then I commence at once with— ' This preparation contains the essential antiseptic constituent of tliyine, eucalyptus, baptisia, gaultheria, and mentha arvensis, in combination ; each iluidraclim also contains two grains of benzo-boracic acid. It may be used in any of these solutions, in part witli water, as a men- struam, and will be found to serve a useful and pleasant purpose where an autise2)tic is desirable.