26 INJURIES OP THE HEAH. prevent secondary inflammation and late brain-disease, I would operate at once in badly depressed, comminuted, simple fractures, even though they presented no decided symptoms of compression. When, however, the fractui-e is not extensive, only slightly depressed, and hut little comminuted, a primary ope- ration should not he thought of, unless marked symptoms of compression are pu-esent. In these cases a little delay may prove that apparent compression is due to slight concussion, etc. General treatment must be relied on, and the strictest watch must be kept for symptoms which are indicative of sub- cranial suppuration, upon the supervention of which, according to tlie prin- ciples enunciated in a former p)ortion of this article, trephining should at once he pierformed. If, however, the hone he much depiressed and extensively comminuted, so as to piress upon and injure the membranes and brain, the mai'gins of the cranial opening being irregular and jagged, an incision should he made, and the case treated as one pjrimarily comp)onnd. I consider this to he the best piractice, even when no s^unpjtoms of com])ressiou are p)resent; and of course an opieration is still more impieratively demanded when pjro- nounced comp)ression of the brain exists. In all these cases, it is p)resup)posed that the surgeon has arrived at the conclusion that the apip)arent })ressure- s3'mp')toms are most probably due either to the depressed hone or to intra- cranial hemorihage, and not to diftused injury of the brain. With careful antisep)tic dressings, the minimum of risk results from thus converting simpfle into compjound fractures. With children, esp)ecially very young ones, a diflerent course must be puirsued. In many cases thei’c* is mere bending, or at least iiisigniflcant fracture of the bone. There being no dipiloe, or at least very little, if the outer table be not comminuted, the inner cannot be much shattered. At what age the skull of a child ap)p)roaches that of an adult in its behavior when subjected to a li-acturiiig force, I cannot say, but I am convinced that in children under two, and often up) to three years of age, the observations just made hold good. In simpfle, depiressed fractures in children, the bone will either sp;)onta- neously resume its level, if recovery ensue, or it may be raised l>y p)neumatic suction if the bones are yielding, as in two cases mentioned by I’rof. Gross.* Dr. W. L. Moultrie, of Charleston, S. C., in 1849, had a p)atient aged five months, with a dep)ression of one pjarietal bone large enough to contain the bowl of a tablespoon. A cupping-glass having been adjusted and exhausted of air, traction was made upon it with the effect of rap)id and complete restoration of the entire surface to its natural level. A case of a similar nature, in a child two years of age, lias been reported by Dr. Nicolls.'^ The depression, a deep narrow one about three inches in length, was piromptly raised by a cupping-glass pilaced upon an embankment of common glazier’s putty, in order to afford it a proper purchase. Complications and Sequelcc.—Eiicepihalitis from brain injury, and intra- cranial hemorrhage in all its forms, are the chief complications. I’ytemia is rare after fractures of the vault, although it may occur. The great sinuses may be wounded, and the formation of a thrombus, and piurulent infection, may follow. Brain-abscess is a not uncommon secpuel. The cicatrix formed where there is loss of bone-substance, may in very rare instances be rupitured, hernia cerebri and death ensuing, as in a case repiorted by Jamieson, where the accident resulted from the violent piaroxysms of coughing incident to an attack of whooping-cough.^ The rent, however, may close, and ]-ecovery take, pflace.* 1 Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 64. ^ Dublin Med. Press, Sept. 1853. ^ Med. Essays and Observations (Edinburgh), vol. ii. p. 217. ^ See Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 585.