DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 231 compresses, often changed, and persevered in during the acute stage, are nearly always henetieial. Moderate purgation in the beginning, and full doses of anodynes at night, will aid greatly in controlling the disease. Xo astringent or irritating applications to the eyes should be allowed, as long as the intolerance of light, weeping, and ciliary injection, are at all pronounced. They always do harm, and greatly increase the danger to the integrity of tlie cornea. If the patient is feeble and aiifemic, good nutritious diet and tonics are the safest constitutional remedies. In such persons warm applications are better borne, and dry absoi’bent cotton and the bandage, witli occasional cleansing of the eyes, will be most grateful and satisfactory. When the local, anodyne, and other cooling and soothing treatment has been continued some days or weeks, till the dread of light, weeping, spasm of the lids, and all injection of the sclera, especially above the cornea, have passed away, then a change to prudent stimulation may be thought of. The patient now opens the eye in the light. It weeps little if any, and there is a more abundant se- cretion of mucus or muco-pus. Xiborate of sodium live grains to the ounce, alum two grains, sulphate of zinc or sulphate of copper one-half grain, dropped into the eyes freely twice a day, will be well l)orne and will do good. A solu- tion of boracic acid ten grains to the ounce, being unirritating, may be used earlier, or even from the start. Should a relapse of keratitis occur, the employment of these astringents must be suspended, and the use of atropine, and other soothing remedies, must be recommenced. Should purulent infiltration and ulceration ensue, the atro- pine and boracic acid must be used more frequently. If ulceration take place, near the margin of the cornea, witli threatened perforation, it is wise to omit the my<lriatic in favor of e.serine, to contract the pupil, make the iris rigid, and prevent extensive prolapsus. On the contrary, where the seat of threat- ened perforation is central, the pupil should be kept fully dilated, as the liest safeguard against prolapsus. In case the ulcerative process is attended by great pain, with or without hypopium, a careful paracentesis of the coi-nea shouLl be tried, in preference through the thinned bottom of tbe ulcer, and the aqueous humor carefully, but completely, evacuated. For fancied, theoret- ical reasons, some would advise eserine exclusively, in all cases of ulceration and infiltration of the cornea ; but it is objectionable, because it greatly increases the danger of iritis and its consequences, always }»resent in such emergencies. If there is increased intra-ocular tension, hypo[iium, and great sutfering, nothing is so prompt and sure as the free use of atroiiine and }>ai’a- centesis. If the edges of the ulcer are infiltrated and undermined, showing rapid lateral spreading, these same expedients may be followed I)y cauteri- zation of the sloughing edges with carbolic acid. A small prol»e or hard- wood toothpick, dipped in the acid, should be rapidly swept around under the necrotic tissues, rendering them white, acting as a prom})t antiseptic, and arresting the destructive process. Foi- many years I have been using the acid in this way, with increasing satisfaction. If anything can save an eye from total destruction in liypopium or infectious keratitis, it is the use of this remedy, repeated once or twice a day, following Saemisch’s free corneal incision, which is made, in such cases, with a Graefe’s cataract knife. The Y)atient being under ether, and the eye fixed, the knife is passed through the cornea, near one edge of the ulcer, carefully pushing the point behind the vdeerated spot and making the counter-]»uncture, the edge presenting for- wards, on the other side. Then by ])ushing the knife slowly and gently forward, the width of the ulcerated jiortiou is split. The aqueous escapes with the shreds of lymph from the chamber, and complete relief of tension tbllows. If tough shreds hang in the incision, they may be drawn out with small iris forceps. Once a day afterwards, the lips of the cut are 0])ened