INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 936 should be lying near the edge of the bed, on his back, with the shoulders raised ; or if there be pain or distress in moving, the operation may be per- formed whilst the patient lies upon his side. 1 have often tapped in this way without any inconvenience to myself, and without causing discomfort by movement to the patient. The canula should be about three inches long and one-quarter of an inch in diameter, and for convenience it should have an India-rubber tube fixed to its side, or readily adaptable to its end after the withdrawal of the trocar, to avoid wetting the bed, and for the purpose of conveying the fluid to a pail or basin on the floor by the side of the bed. The old plan of performing the operation whilst the patient was sitting in a chair, is not to be followed ; though it is well still to emi»loy what was abso- lutely needful to prevent syncope when this method was in vogue, namely, a broad liannel roller, or round-towel, applied around the belly, tlie ends being crossed behind and held by two assistants, who stand one on each side of the patient, and who by gently tightening the bandage maintain support on the organs and large vessels of the abdomen, whilst tlie fluid flows away. A hole should be cut in the centre of the bandage, so that the spot at which the puncture is to be made should be left uncovered. When all the fluid which can easily be drawn off has escaped, the canula should be withdrawn, and the wound covered with a small pad of lint secured by a broad strip of plaster; and a flannel roller should then be bound firndy around the abdomen. Tliough this operation is commonly esteemed one of the simplest in surgery, there are, nevertheless, certain precautions recpiisite, for it is not without its dangers. The/?Vsi precaution is to make sure that the bladder is empty; this should be done by the introduction of a catheter, or bj' getting the patient to pass water if the catheter is objected to, and not by trusting to percussion, as has been absurdly suggested. In some cases of ascites in which tapping is most needed, the whole of the front of the belly is dull on percussion, and in ovarian dropsy this is always the case. The second precaution, is not to re- introduce the trocar if the flow ceases before all tlie fluid has run off, lest it wound the intestine. Some blunt-ended probe, or a catheter, may be passed through the canula so as to keep aside the intestine or omentum, which by floating up against the end of the tube may effectually obstruct the flow. Thhdly^ the surgeon should ascertain before making the puncture, and whilst the patient is in the position to be occupied during the operation, that the part is dull on percussion. This is especially needful in secondary tappings, as it sometimes happens that a coil of intestine becomes adherent to the seat of previous puncture ; we should, therefore, be on our guard in operating through the cicatrix of an old puncture, though the practice is sanctioned by many.^ Fonrtldy^ it is always well before surrounding the abdomen with the binder which is to he used during the operation, to make a mark with iodine, caustic, or ink, at the spot at which the puncture is to be made. With the abdominal walls distended, perhaps unequally, it is very eas}" to mistake the median line, more especially with the jiatient on his side, and oidy a small area of the surface exposed through the hole in the bandage. By not taking this precaution the epigastric artery has been wounded, and fatal hemorrhage has occurred from it. T)r. James Carmichael Smyth,- in 1790, enumerated ten cases in which death had been caused by wound of the epigas- tric artery or its branches, whilst performing paracentesis. Soutli, in his notes ' A case illustrating the danger of wounding intestine which has become adherent to the parie- tes after a prior tapping, is recorded in the Lancet for 1827, vol. ix. p. G37. In the Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. ii. p. 203, is the record of a case in which the jejunrrm was wounded by a punc- ture made about an inch below the umbilicus ; a fistula discharging bile existed for five weeks aftei-vvards, and then closed. 2 Medical Communications, vol. ii. p. 482.