376 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. relieving tlie attack, will often fail the next. There is no specific remedy for the disease. The asthmatic complication may often be quickl}^ relieved by the use of the following prescription:— K Potassii ioJidi, 5j ; Lin. potassii arsenitis, fti; Aquae, fpiv. M. Sig A teaspoonful every four or six hours. Chronic Coryza.—The term chronic coryza, or chronic nasal catarrh, may very properly be used to replace a variety of terms wbich are to day emplo3'ed in literature to signify one and the same affection. I believe that such a multiplicity of names falls far short of its object, can but serve to confuse the subject, and leads to fault}^ diagnosis and often to improper treatment. Bos- worth, from a pathological point of view, if not correctly from an anatomical, defines the nasal cavities as extending from the nostrils to the free border of the soft palate, thus including the upper phar^mx. Clinical experience teaches us that in most, if not in all cases of chronic nasal catarrh, the vault of the pharynx is involved in the morbid process; and the converse is likewise true: though the pharyngeal process be the more prominent, few cases exist in which the nasal passages also are not implicated. Chronic coryza, or chronic nasal catarrh, may therefore be defined as a chronic, catarrhal inflammation of the nasal mucous membrane and that of the vault of the phaiynx, and the term should be understood to include those of post-nasal catan-h, post-pharyngeal catarrh, retro-nasal catarrh, and adenoid hypertrophy of the vault of the pharynx, which are so commonly used. Clinically, several varieties of chronic coiyza are met with, each possessing individual appearances upon rhinoscopic inspection, giving rise to widely different symptoms, and recpiiring a distinct method of treatment. Upon the correct appreciation of the ditferences between these varieties, depends the success of the measures undertaken for their relief. The varieties of the disease are classified by Bosworth* in a form, that, when slightly modified, commends itself for its simplicity and clearness, and can be proven to be clinically true. 1. Simjyle chronic coryza^ a chronic inflammation of the nasal mucous membrane, characterized by an abundant discharge of mucus, but attended by no marked structural changes. 2. Hyper- trophic nasal catarrh^ a chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane, characterized by an excessive secretion of mucus or muco-pus, and also marked by certain structural changes in the membrane, by which this is thickened or hypertrophied. This h^qiertrophy involves not onlj- the mem- brane lining the nasal cavity proper, but also the glands at the vault of the pharynx. 3. Atrophic nasal catarrh, a chronic inflammation of the nasal mucous membrane, in which the glandular structures are implicated to such an extent as to interfere seriously with their function, the membrane thus lacking its normal supply of mucus, and becoming dry, and secretions accu- mulating subsequently into dry, hard crusts, and decomposing, giving rise to a purulent fetid discharge and to an offensive odor (fetid catarrh). Simple Chronic Coryza.—Seen as a rule, perhaps, as the evident and direct consequence of oft-repeated, and especially of neglected, attacks of acute in- flammation, it, on the other hand, frequently manifests itself bj" a slow and gradual progression, Avithout previous recognizable cause, and bj" no means necessarily dependent upon any constitutional taint of scrofula, although the possible influence of the latter, as well as of syphilis, herpetism, and, Avith adults, diathetic conditions, upon its causation, should not be overlooked. ' Boswortli, Diseases of tlie Throat and Nose. New York, 1881.