HERNIA. 1138 insurance company, as to tlie premium to be paid by a bernial patient. If we take 25 per cent, as tbe proportion of reducible iiernial cases, which sooner or later become subject to strangulation or other consequences which immediately endanger the life of the patient, we shall certainly not at all over-estimate this risk. In irreducible hernia the chances of such a result are at least trebled. The risks of an operation for strangulated henna are again much increased by the unfavorable conditions of general health, etc., under which the operation must usually be undertaken; and this again is further greatly increased when the hernia is irreducible. The risk of strangulation is vastly greater if the patient is placed in circumstances under which the neces- sity for bodily labor or great muscular exertion is constant and recurring ; and its dangers are more serious if he is likely to be far from medical aid, and from opportunities of having efficient renewal and timely adaptation of trusses. Soldiers, sailors, travellers, colonists, sportsmen, and farmers in remote dis- • tricts, far from medical advice and aid, all undergo greatly increased risks from strangulation. Death and physical disability in the struggle of life are in their eases more threatened than in tlie cases of those who live at home and at ease. The same may be said of strangulation occurring among strong and muscular men who are fond of, and otherwise best adapted to, athletic exercises and pursuits. AVe have also to estimate the pain, trouble, and inconvenience arising from the difficulties of making proper and efficient truss-pressure, and its constant renewal; the danger resulting from blows or other external injuries; and the constant tendency of the rupture to grow larger and more unmanageable, or irreducible, and of truss-pressure to be less available, as the patient grows older and less able physically to endure the jjain and danger of frequent stran- gulation. Again, there are to be considered the cai’e and expense involved in the con- stantly recurring necessity for new trusses, or for repairing the old, especially in remote countries and in tropical climates, where the conditions of exis- tence render truss-renewals more frequently required, while the distance from instrument-makers renders them more expensive, tedious, and difficult. In irritable natures, the worry of unsatisfactoiy truss-[)ressure removes the slender possibility of a cure by this means, and often renders life a burden, and deteriorates the constitution so as to predispose to tendencies Avhich shorten life. The trouble and risk are of course directly increased if there be local conqilications, such as non-descent of the testicle, or the supervention of a hydrocele or varicocele, as not Amcommonly occurs in advancing years. Urethral stricture or enlarged prostate, a chronic cough, or an enlarged liver or diseased kidneys, causing, accompanying, or supervening npon hernia, also multi[)ly to a variable and indetinite extent the troubles which it produces, its chances of strangulation, and the risks of dealing with it if strangulation occurs. It is, of course, difficult to give an exact estimate of the risk to life of the hernial condition as compared with that of the operation for its radical cure, but it is less so than that of estimating the pain, worry, suffering, and incon- venience of wearing trusses, generally more or less inefficient, and always liable to fail at the moment of greatest muscidar effort, Avhen their support is most urgently required. The risks anil advantages of a radical cure for hernia vary of course with the method adopted, ami the conditions of the rupture under which it is under- taken. So much in this respect depends upon the tact, judgment, experience, and manipulative skill of the individual surgeon, that I can only base my com- parison upon the results of my individual experience, which will be found in detail in a subsequent portion of this article. That an immense deal does depend