DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 321 tion of the walls of the Eustachian tube has sufficiently subsided to permit the fluid secretions of the middle ear to find an outlet by this channel; and under these circumstances the membrana tympani is very likely to he sub- jected to considerable tension, from the pressure of these accumulating secretions. The duration of a visible discharge from the ear is very variable. It often lasts only a few days, and then again it may continue for a period of several weeks. If the case pass into a chronic condition, the discharge may continue for years. Inasmuch as the membi’ana tympani forms, anatomically, a part of the external auditory canal as well as of the middle ear, it may participate in the inflammation of either of these regions. Under cei’tain circumstances, therefore, it may be difficult or even impossible to determine, by mere inspec- tion, whether the appearances presented by the membrana tympani indicate a primary inflammation of the middle ear, or merely an extension of one that developed originally in the external meatus, and spread thence not only to the membrana tympani but also to the cutaneous wall of the osseous portion of the meatus. In the great majority of instances in which the true signifi- cance of this combined myringitis and otitis externa diffusa cannot be learned by mere inspection of the parts, Ave may easily arrive at a correct conclusion by testing the hearing of the affected ear, and by ascertaining liow much pain the patient has experienced. If he can hear the ticking of a watch at a distance of several inches from the affected ear, and if he has had very little pain—possibly none at all—we may be confident that we are dealing with a case of primary inflammation of the external auditory canal, involving the dermoid portion of the drum-membrane. On the other hand, a primary inflammation of the middle ear, of sufficient severity to involve tlie coveidngs of the osseous position of the external auditory canal, could scarcely run its course so far without producing severe pain. Treatment.—The most urgent indication, in the treatment of an acute inflammation of the middle ear, is to afford relief from the pain, Avhich is sometimes severe. In young children, it is often an easy matter to accomplish this by simply applying heat and moisture in close proximity to the inflamed })arts. In carrying out this procedure, however, it is iin|iortant to pay considerable attention to details. The child should lie upon the side corres- })Onding to the well ear, and Avater at a temperature of about 100° F. should be poured into the outer canal of the inflamed ear until it seems to be full. Then a hot, flaxseed-rneal poultice, or a pad composed of several thicknesses of flannel Avrung out of hot Avater, should immediately be placed over the ear and surrounding region. As an outside covering, and also as a means of holding the poultice properly in its place, a flannel cap Avith strings that can be tied under the chin, may be adjusted. As soon as tbe poultice or the Iiot cloths seem to have lost their heat, fresh ones should be ready at band to supply their places. I>y this procedure, Avhich brings the heat and moisture in close proximity to the inflamed [larts, Ave shall rarely fail in children to arrest an acute inflammation of the middle ear, provided that it be not due to some specific poison like that of scarlet fever or di])htheria, and provided tliat the disease be not of too long standing. In adults, also, tbis plan of treatment is sometimes successful, but it is rare that a full-groAvn person Avill consent to submit to treatment of any kind, until the time has gone by Avhen such sini[)lc, home-nuule measures are competent to arrest the progress of the inflammation. Still it is often ]iossible, even at this late stage, to quiet the pain and arrest the further progress of the inflannnation by the measures Avhich I have descriljed, and it is therefore Avell to give them a trial. Xoav and then Ave shall encounter a patient to Avhoni some form of dry heat aflbrds VOL. V.—21