1052 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE ABDOMEN. Cases of Hydatid Tumor or Liver Treated Year. Name. Age. Sex. Married or siugie. History. State ou admissiuii. 188U C. A. 39 F. Marr’d 14 years ago had a lump in her right side. 10 years ago was operated on for hydatid of liver in King’s Coll. Hospital, and again the following year. Six years ago was operated on at St. Bartholomew’s. The right hypochondriac region occu- pied by a prominent swelling reaching to umbilicus ; 2^ inches below xiphoid was a sinus discharging pus. The tu- mor moved with respiration, was Arm, non-elastic, and non-adherent to skin. 1881 J. T. 29 M. Single Five years ago had some pain over liver. Had not noticed any swelling. Was at work till 3 days ago. There was considerable bulging in right hypochondrium. The swelling moved with resj)iration. The liver dulness began at nipple level, and extended to umbilicus. The liver dulness ex- tended across the middle line to left hypochondrium. 1881 .1. P. 41 M. Single 17 years ago had jaundice in India. At that time he noticed a swelling in epigastrium which re- mained painless till 9 months ago. The liver dulness commenced at 5th rib in mammary line, and extended to an inch off the umbilicus ; on the left side it merged on splenic dulness. It mea- sured 8 inches vertically. There was a large oval swelling in epigastrium. It moved with respiration ; a faint wave could be obtained at upper part. The tumor was firm, hard, and a little irre- gular. 1881 A. C. 14 M. Single Patient has had pain in his right side for about a month. Liver dulness commenced at 6th rib, and reached to half an inch from umbilicus. The dulness extended across to the left side, verging into cardiac. The swell- ing occupied the epigastrium and right and left hypochondriac regions, the greatest prominence being just below costal margin. Tumor moved with re- spiration; firm, and non-fluctuating. The liver did not extend below the ribs, but there was a distinct bulging on the left side in the lower axillary and infi-a-mammary region, which she had noticed for three years. 1881 A. H. 29 F. Single 7 years ago was treated for hydatid of liver. 6 weeks ago felt sharp pain in right hypochondriac re- gion. 1882 E. H. 29 F. Single 12 months ago noticed that her ribs began to grow out after a fall ; a swell- ing formed, and has gra- dually increased in size. Liver dulness normal. The left hypo- chondriac region was occupied by a globular swelling. It was elastic, and moved with respiration. Its area of dulness was continuous on the left side with that of the spleen, and on the right with that of the liver. The lower edge well-defined, and could be felt. 1882 M. L. 32 F. Marr’d 2 years gradually increas- ing swelling in hepatic region. Liver dulness increased downwards ou right of median line. There was a globular outline to swelling. Free Incision.—A certain proportion of failures must lie expected to follow simple puncture. Mnrcliison’s table shows that out of 46 cases in which the operation of simple tapiiing was performed, 35 appear to have been quite successful. In 10 cases the operation was followed by suppuration, necessi- tating a free opening, and in these, 8 patients recovered and 2 died. In neither of the two fatal cases did death seem to be caused, or indeed hastened, by the operation. In one case the patient succumbed to peritonitis -within twenty- four hours after the puncture. Dr. John Ilarlejq^ who advocates a large and ' Med.-Chir. Trans., 1866, vol. xl. Dr. Harley has again urged the value of a free opening, and described his method of procedure, in a paper in the 12th vol. of St. Thomas’s Hosp. Reports, 1883.