PEXDTKATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 91'J iiicliules cases of perforation of the largo intestine in parts uncovered h]i perito- neum^ and there are only 5 eases of recovery after gunshot wounds of the small intestine. Dr. Otis tells us that musket-balls commonly divide a considerable portion of the calibre of a small intestine; carbine or pistol-balls sometimes make two perforations of its walls; and occasionally a small projectile may perfo- rate the intestinal Avail at a single point, and lodge Avithin the gut. In such cases as the last mentioned, the usual eversion of the mucous tunic ensues, and the appearances are not to he distinguished from those resulting in a true puncturecl AA'ouud, intiicted by a sharp-pointed instrument, lie also considers it to he characteristic of shot-lesions of the intestines, that the injury to the serous, is less extensive than that to the mucous and muscular tunics. Though a hall com})letely traversing the abdomen has been knoAvn to Avound the small intestine no less than sixteen times in its passage, it is not, Otis thinks, very common for more than two convolutions to he Avounded, oi‘ for the Avail of the small intestine to he perforated in more than four places. Dr. Glross^ records a case in Avhich a pistol hall }»erforated the ileum, jejunum, duod- enum, and arch of the colon, making thus eight separate oiltices; and many other such cases of multiple injuiy are on record. In the treatment of jienetrating Avounds of the abdomen, as has been stated above, much difference of opinion has been expressed respecting the propriety of abdominal incision for the removal of extravasated matter and the ajiplication of sutures to the intestine, or, in other Avords, the practice of enterorraphy. It seems to me, however, that sufficient distinction is not ahvays made by Avriters betAveen ordiiiaiy incised or punctured Avounds on the one hand, in which it is [>robable that the intestine is Avoimded at only one or at most two points; and cases of gunshot or other contused wounds on the other hand, in Avhich it is almost certain that more or less sloughing must folloAV about the edges of the Avound, and in Avhich the intestines are Avounded in several points Avhich Avould have to he sought for at tlie risk of dangerous and prolonged disturbance and maidpulation, and some of which, in all prol)a- bility, would be overlooked by the eye of the surgeon, though the officious in- ([uisitiveness of his fingers might cause them to l)ecome the seat of effusion, i’oland, Avith the evidence before him of that brilliant epoch in military surgery Avhen Larrey, llennen, and (futhrie, Avere the guiding lights, con- demned the practice and recommendations of Baudens and Jjegoiiest; iVeu- dbrfer and F. Tl. Hamilton have more recently condemned any sui’gical interference Avith shot-Avounds of the intestines; and after a careful perusal of the marvellously full and exhaustive chapter on Injuries <»f the Abdomen in the Medical and Surgical History of the War of tlie Rebellion, in Avhich enterorraphy is advocated, I entirely coincide Avith the o[)iniou ol' that revered and veteran master of surgery, Ih'of. Gross, Avho, Avhile heartily endorsing the jiropriety of ex2)loratory incision and of enterorra[)hy in cases of ordinary intestinal Avouiids Avitliout protrusion, regards such measures as unlikely to he of benefit in shot-wounds of the boAvels, because such lesions are commonly multiple, and, I would add, ahva} s of the nature of contused Avounds. The experience of the American War affords nothing in proof of the benefits «d‘ la})arotomy and enterorraj)hy in gunshot Avounds, and the inference is, that what Thomsoid Avrote after the battle of Waterloo, ndght be e(pially said of the surgeons engaged in that Avar: “In these cases, the more that is left to nature in the process of reunion, and the less her operations arc interfered ' System of Surgery, vol. ii. ^ Report of OtservatioMs madi^ in the British Military Hosjiitals in Belgium, etc., p. DHl. Ediuburgli, 18tfj.