INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 192 Evidently here the suppuration was not deep behind the eye, and the vision was damaged, lint not destroyed. In the case of spontaneous cellulitis, occurring in the puerperal period, the cornea was insensible from the begin- ning, and was linally destroyed by sloughing in consequence of its antesthesic state. When the ]^)rotrusion was greatest, the enormous chemosis covered and protected the cornea. As it subsided, the cornea was more exposed, and suc- cumbed at a period when it would not, if the normal sensibility had been preserved. ^ In the history of surgery, many fatal cases of penetration to the brain, through the orbit, are recorded. I have referred to one or two, in my ana- tomical synopsis. Remarkable histories of lai’ge foreign bodies, lodged in the socket, have been given. Haynes AYalton reports a case in which an iron hat-peg, three and three-tenth inches long, entered and remained in the orbit for many weeks. It was successfully extracted, the vision and move- ments of the eye remaining unimpaired. I myself saw Helaton remove the ivory handle of an umbrella from the oi’bit of a man, after it had sojourned there three years. It was nearly two inches in length, and half an inch in thickness. I had seen the same patient before at Desmarres’s Clinique. Alilitary surgery contains accounts of many wonderful injuries of the orbit and eye, by gunshot projectiles and other weapons. A Union general, now living in Ahishington City, had both optic nerves severed by a ball that tra- versed from temple to temple, behind the eyes. I saw him some months after the casualty, and both optic nerves were white. Rising from the perusal of these histories, one feels that nothing possible, is impossible! Injuries and diseases of the antrum, frontal sinuses, and ethmoid cells, as far as they lead to troubles of the eye, can only be mentioned here. Bearing in mind their anatomical relations, the intelligent diagnosis of these diseases is not difficult. I have several times seen fistulous openings into the frontal sinuses mistaken for fistula lachrymalis. And what surgeon has not wit- nessed the professional alarm at emphysema, in wounds of the ethmoid and frontal sinus ? Intelligence is always cool and collected. Ignorance is rash and emotional. Tumors of the Orbit.—Almost every form of morbid growth found in the body, is represented in this cavity. In the various neoplasms that originate here, or encroach upon this space from without, there is one most characteristic symptom—exoplithalmus. According to the sear and size of the tumor, will be the direction and degree of the protrusion of tlie eye. A growth in the funnel-space behind the eye, especially if quite at the apex, may not cause noticeable prominence for a long time. Impaired vision from pressure on the optic trunk, and disturbed circulation of blood in the retina, may be the first evidences of such an affection. At length the exoplithalmus, usually in the direct axis of the orliit, attracts attention. But for a long time nothing can be felt by the finger, the eye filling so fully the space in front. Then, when the globe is almost out of the socTcet, the finger, pressed behind, detects the cause. I have notes of a number of such cases, of which the following three are samples:— A stout lady, of nukly complexion and perfect health, consulted me ten years ago, for hlindness of one eye. There was white atropliy of the optic papilla and complete abolition of sight. She complained slightly of a feeling of [>ressure behind the eye. This condition continued, and at the end of about two years I noticed beginning ex- opbthalmus. This increased slowly, and I determined to operate. The protrusion was direct, the rotation almost perfect, and by i)artially luxating the eye with my finger, I could feel a very firm growth pushing the eye forwards. The eye being hope-