INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 604 indolent, and often deeply placed and firmly connected. If they are opened or hurst, they give rise to very trouhlesome fij^tnlous openings. Compound Congenital Cysts.—The compound congenital cyst, from the deep position which it may occupy among the muscles (going even behind the pharynx and oesophagus), and from its close relation to important structures, is often a very formidable alfair. It may be made uji of many separate masses, or the groAvth may appear to be lobed, from being bound aci’oss by muscular or cellular bands, or by the partial or complete division of the cyst l)y partitions within. These cysts occur on the back of the neck, and not unfrequently in front, to the inner side of the sterno-mastoid. These groAvths have been seen at Inrth of a size to impede delivery. They have not only coA^ered tlie Avhole side ot the neck, but have hung doAvn in front of the chest, and by their pressure on the floor of the mouth liaA^e occasioned serious difficulty in both breathing and SAvalloAving. Various Auces of conformation may be found to accompany them—conditions not connected Avith simple congenital cysts. Their contents are very much varied (glandular, sarcomatous, cartilaginous, colloid, and sanguineous elements), and their Avails are not unusuall}’ liard and thick from calcareous, cartilaginous, or bony deposit, or from having undergone sarco- matous or other change. From the nature of their contents and the altera- tions in their Avails, these cysts are firmer and more irregular in outline than simple cysts. Their consistence may vary greatly in ditferent parts of their surface, being soft and fluctuating at one part, and hard as bone at others. There is little or no pain, and no pulsation, but the veins on their surface may be enlarged. They may burst and disappear, but at other times this occurrence has led to the breaking up of the patient’s health. VoN-coNGENiTAL CYSTS are sufliciently common. The sebaceous cyst occurs liere as elseAvhere, and presents its usual, well- knoAvn characters. When deeply placed, as it occasionally is, it is diflicult to be certain of its true nature before puncturing it. The sanyiiineous cyst occurs mostly in young children, and appears to be due to bleeding into a serous cyst. The blood may be at rest Avithin the cavity, or there may be a direct connection Avitli a A^ein Avhich alloAvs of its circulation through the interior of the cyst. Hydatid cysts are A^ery rare, and their real nature may not be knoAvn till they are punctured. They may lie superficially, or they may be placed deeply among the muscles, especially on the back of the neck. Syniptmns of Hon-con genital Cysts of the Neck.—Von-congenital cysts in adults gj’OAV sloAvly as a rule, and remain long stationary, and often attract little attention till they have attained a considerable size. If they are aflected by inflammation, their rate of progress may be greatly accele- rated, and they may become Avhat otherwise they are not, painful. These cysts, hoAvever, occasionally make a rapid start in groAvth Avithout any apparent cause. If small, they may appear to be solid from their tense- ness, but if large, their soft consistence is commonly evident. Ho help is got in their examination from transparence. The skin covering them is not involved, and they are as a rule movable, smooth, and Avithout pulsation or hniit, unless it be merely a heaving Avhen the}' are in contact Avith the carotid. It is said that Mr. Syme on one occasion ligatured the common carotid for a supposed aneurism, Avhen in reality it Avas a thick-AA^alled cyst adherent to the A'essel’s side. The kind of movement, and the effects on the tumor of arresting the current of blood by i)ressure applied at the root of the neck, Avill, Avitli the history, best aid the surgeon to aA'oid a like erron The non-congenital cysts of the neck occur most frequently in connection