208 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. A few years since, I operated successfully on an eye for cataract. All went so well that, in a week, yielding reluctantly to tlie urgent wishes of the patient, I ex- tracted the other lens. P^atal reaction followed ; the first eye became involved in sym- pathetic inflammation ; and the patient was left hopelessly blind. Even iridectomy has been the cause of loss of the fellow eye, but the dan- ger involved is excessively small. I recall the case of a young lady who consulted me, many years ago, for a large pro- lapsus of the iris at the upper margin of the cornea. It had existed for years, and was the result of a perforating ulcer. Although quite large, it was covered generally by the upper lid, and the eye was useful. I clipped it off with scissors, and in a few days ugly iritis ensued, and persisted stubbornly. At length it abated, and the patient returned home to the country. Some months after, she came back with complete disorganiza- tion and blindness of both eyes. In such a case, with a prolapsus having a large neck, lined with membrane of Descemet, connecting with the aqueous chamber, and of long standing, I should be very careful. After one of my earliest extractions by Graefe’s linear method, there remained a moderate prolapsus of the iris at one angle of the incision. The lady, now over 80, has a prola()sus as large as half a grain of wlieat, covered by the upper lid, causing her no inconvenience, and with a rare vision of 1. Of course, hernia of the iris, making traction upon the ciliary and other structures, and keeping up persistent and dangerous cyclitis, may be the result of simple ulceration and perforation of the cornea, as well as of injury. In the most serious forms of irido-cyclitis, there is one symptom of pecu- liar significance. I mean habitual tenderness to pressure at some particular point in the ciliary region. It is nearly always above, and can be detected by pressure with the finger through the lid, or with a probe. The moment the sensitive point is pressed upon, the patient involuntarily shrinks and complains of pain. This important and never-to-he-forgotten symptom is not always present, but when it is detected, great and imminent danger is to be feared. It oftener exists when the painful eye is blind and shrunken than when it is plump. If the local tenderness of the stump is due to bony deposits, the sen- sitive and very hard points are far hack. But they import serious danger here as well as in the ciliary region. With this symptom of local tenderness to pressure, with more or less constant irritation of a blind eye, the surgeon should not hesitate to urge immediate enucleation. “ The following list,” says Dr. Ludwig Mautliner, “ comprises the sympa- thetic diseases of the eye: neuralgia of the ciliary nerves ; irritation of the retina and of the optic nerve; functional disturbance of the retina; inflam- mation, severally, of the conjunctiva, cornea, and choroid; inflammation of the uveal tract, with or without participation on the part of the ciliary body, so that there may he both a sympathetic iritis and a sympathetic choroiditis, without coexisting cyclitis; inflammation of the retina, alone or in conjunc- tion with inflammation of the choroid; inflammation of the optic nerve; glaucoma; disease of the vitreous and of the lens.” It is cpiestionable whether some of the cases reported, and from which tins list has been made up, wei’e genuine cases of sympathetic disease, or only accidental occurrences. My limits will not admit of discussion as to the channels by which disease may extend to the fellow eye, and the mode of its propagation. The general belief is that the morbid process extends directly from the injured to the other eye, and is not the result of reflex, excito-motor influence. In addition to the route of the ciliary nerves, the frecpient presence of optic neuritis or neuro-retinitis ni enucleated eyes, wmuld indicate that the optic nerve and its sheath were perhaps frequent channels of morbid communication. The sensory branches of the trigeminus, so freely distributed to the ciliary muscle, iris.