PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 899 free escape of urine and pus ; if very badl}’ wounded, or if hemorrliage from it be ])ersistent and alarming, or if it be prolapsed, lumbar nepbrectomy should be performed. II. Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen. Penetrating wounds of the abdomen ma}* be divided into; (1) simple Avounds; (2) wounds Avith protrusion of, but Avithout injury to, the abdomi- nal contents; (3) Avounds Avith protrusion and injury; and (4) Avounds Avith- out protrusion of, but Avith injury to, the Adscera. It has been already stated that these Avounds, like the non-penetrating, may be either incised, punc- tured, lacerated, contused, or gunshot; but after the foregoing description of non-penetrating Avonnds, it is unnecessary to describe tbe penetrating under these headings. The relations of the Avound to the A-iscera and to the perito- neum, give tlie leading characters to penetrating Avounds. In judging of Avounds of the abdomen, Ave are likely to be deceived by the appearance of the |)atient, as Avell as of the Avound. lie may be conscious, comfortable, and calm, thougb the subject of a most seA^ere and critical Avound; or he may be restless, trembling, and alarmed, though there is but slight, if any, actual danger. The Avound itself, though on the surface simple, may be serious Avithin—the peritoneum being ])unctured, lacerated,contused,or Avidely detached; or some deep vessel may be injured, and alarming hemorrhage may be going on. Again, the Avound may be large and lacerated at the sur- face, Avhilst little or no damage has been done to the deeper structures. Wounds of the abdomen not immediately fatal, but Avhich subsequently terminate fatally, do so in much the same general Avay. Just as Avounds of the head lead to death by delirium or coma, and Avounds of the chest liy dyspnoea, lHemo[)tysis, and syncope, so Avounds of the abdomen kill b}’ in- tlammation and gangrene, and the signs of these processes are tympanites, vomiting, hiccough, thirst, a sense of bursting, clammy SAveats, ami distres- sing restlessness. Simple penetrating avounds are unattended at first by any other symp- toms than those common to non-penetrating Avounds of a corres}>onding character. If all goes Avell, and the patient makes a good recovery, as in many incised penetrating Avounds is the case, there is neither collapse to start Avith, nor peritonitis to retard the cure; and even Avhen the injury has been folloAved by a good deal of shock, the subsequent course of the case may be (piite simple and satisfactory, the synqkoms negative, and the convalescence (piick. In many cases, especially if the Avound is narroAV, or oblique, it is difficult or even impossible to say Avhether it penetrates or not, unless the surgeon indulges in an unAvarrantable curiosity and probes the Avound. The case may, therefore, run its course to a successful termination, and the surgeon be left in doubt Avhether he has had anon-penetrating or a penetrating Avound to treat. In draAving any inference as to Avliether the peritoneum has been jienetrated or not, the varying thickness of the parietes as Avell as the force and direction of the bloAv, if this can be ascertained, and the size of the Avound as compared with the shape and size of the instrument, must be taken into account. A force Avhich Avould penetrate a thin abdominal Avail may not a fat one; and a force Avhicb Avould drive an instrument quite through at the epigastrium may not go half-Avay through at the hank. Again, care must be taken not to mistake a lobule of fat, projecting from the Avound, for a piece of omentum. One great source of danger in penetrating Avounds Avas formerly supposed to be the irritation set up by the entrance of air; but John Beil