562 SURGERY OF THE TEETH AND ADJACENT PARTS. Alveolar Abscess.—In many cases of abscess at the roots of the single teeth, the pus may be reached without lancing, by passing a fine broach through the nerve canal. This is not ditiicult with the six front teeth, and is jireferable to making an opening through tlie gum, unless the pus have already made its way through the alveolus. Alveolar abscesses are often difficult to cure, particularly when there are no fistulous openings, and when they have l)een of long standing. Opening into them through tlie canals of the roots, and treating them with antiseptics, is the usual course, but it is a common experience that this cure is but temporary. Latterly iodoform has been used in these cases, and it is claimed with perfect success. Oftentimes a chronic alveolar abscess can only be cured by heroic treatment, viz., making an opening through the gum and alveolus, cutting away the ulcerating sac at the root, and cutting and scraping away the devitalized bone in the imme- diate vicinity. Then cleansing the cavity with tepid water, to which a little salt has been added, a complete cure will be pretty certain to follow. Cystic tumors of the jaw are of two kinds, simple and compound. The first show onlj’ expansion of the bone with varying fluid or gaseous contents, beginning as slightly flattened enlargements on the side of either upper or lower jaw, and slowly increasing until they reach the size of half a hickory- nut, but seldom lai’ger. They are tardy in growth, unaccompanied b}’ pain, and local in their origin, their occurrence being evidently attributable to den- tal irritation. The gum covering them always aiipears normal, without con- gestion, inflammation, or anything to indicate its implication in the disease. Their course is chronic and benign in character. In some cases, pressure upon such a tumor will produce a parchment-like, crackling sound, but this is by no means general, as the outer wall, in many instances, will be found upon examination to be supported by a spongy growth or septa of bone, too firm to yield under any ordinary external pressure. The term “ spina ventosa” has been applied to these cases. Treatment of such a cyst is not difficult. A crucial incision should be made through the bod}’ of the tumor, and such septa as exist should be broken up. Ko anxiety need be felt concerning hemorrhage. The cavity should be syringed with salt and water, or other slightly stimulating licpiid, and stuffed with lint saturated with tincture of iodine. Tins will cause the base to throw out granulations, and the cure will be complete. Dentigerous cysts are compound in their character, showing in addition to the contents of a simple cyst, elements of a dental nature, and owing their origin usually to an impacted or otherwise undeveloped tooth which lies imbedded in the jaw. Every impacted tooth, however, does not lead to the formation of a cyst. The cause of this condition appears to be; first, mis- placement or diversion of a tooth-germ, so that in its growth it will not emerge from the gum; and secondly, the accumulation of serous fluid within the dental capsule, which thereby becomes distended, and, increasing in size, involves the surrounding tissues. Generally the crowns of teeth connected with dentigerous cysts are found to be normal, but their fangs are more or less abortive and defective. A cyst may also arise from an unerupted supernumerary tooth. The latter can generally be recognized by its position and size, being seldom larger than an ordinary pea, and mostly situated in the palatine process of the maxilla. An exploring needle will readily determine its presence, if used by one who is familiar with the touch of tooth-substance. Dentigerous cysts sometimes assume a most formidable character, containing as their germ abnormal masses of dentine and enamel, unrecognizable as belonging to any