SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. 1085 re-accumulation is not likely to occur. Kneading the abdomen has been suc- cessful when the tumor has been the result of convolution and sacculation, here and there, of the ureter ; it might also succeed when the cause of obstruc- tion was a small calculus or a retroliected uterus; hut it is a measure which must be resorted to with extreme care, for fear of rupturing a tense, and per- haps softened or thin-walled tumor. If the cause of obstruction seems per- manent or progressive, nephrotomy and drainage should be employed, and then, if the obstruction is suhsecpiently removed, the fistula may be allowed to close; aud if the obstruction is permanent, the atrophied renal substance may cease to secrete, or may become destroyed by suppuration, and thus the fistula Avill be healed. If a permanent fistula results, nephrectomy should be performed if the patient cannot or will not hear the discomfort and incon- venience of the fistula. This inconvenience can be minimized, however, by a simple apparatus fitted to the loin to catch and contain the urine. Pyonephrosis.—Pyonephrosis, or dilatation of the kidney with pus, or pus and urine, is like hydronephrosis a mechanical result of obstruction, but it is something more. In pyonephrosis there is pyelitis as well as dila- tation of tlie pelvis and calyces: tliere is inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of these parts, superadded to the mechanical distension and its results. In advanced cases the inflammation and suppuration extend beyond the calyces, and go on to the breaking down of the medullary and cortical substance, until at length the whole kidney is a largely dilated sac of pus. A suppurating hydronephrosis is a pyonephrosis, and therefore the same causes which produce the one may give rise to the other; lint, as a rule, the obstruction which at once causes pyonephrosis is more rapidl}^ complete, and is thus attended by more irritation to the kidney than that wliich causes hydronephrosis. The organ has not time to go on gradually dilating and gradually atrophying whilst the other kidney pari passu is taking on com- pensatory hypertrophy ; but inflammation is at once or very shortly lighted up by the same cause which checks the outflow of the urine. In one form of the disease, the cause of the inflammation is necessarily the cause of the obstruction: in those cases of strumous pyelitis where the pelvic mucous membrane is most aft‘ected,the entrance of the ureter becomes lilocked by the inflammatory swelling—possibly by the swelling about an ulcer there ; dilata- tion of the pelvis and calyces follows, the whole of the kidney-tissue is com- pressed, the pyramids are at the same time the seat of the scrofulous inflam- mation, and gradually the kidney is transformed into a large cyst filled with pus, with ragged, tubercular, suppurating tissue lining it. In suppurating hydronephrosis, the pus and urine may be found in very different proportions in difterent cases. Diagnosis and Treatment.—When the constitutional syni[)toms of suppura- tion, or the symptoms of [)yelo-nephritis, are followed by a renal tumor, the diagnosis is fairly easy; otherwise it is impossiljle to distinguish hydro- nephrosis from pyonephrosis. This uncertainty, however, is of little conse- f[uence, as the treatment is the same in either case, except that wliere the fluid is purulent, ne}throtorny and drainage through the loin should be at once resorted to without temporizing with tlie trocar. ISTephrotomy has many times been [»erformed in pyoneplirosis, witli advantage, and in some instances with completely successful results. On introducing the finger or fingers into a hydronephrotic or pyonephrotic kidney, through the incision in the loin, a largo, lohnlated or pouched cavity Avill at once be detected. 8uch a cavity will not be found in a perinephric aliscess. The cavity is often far too large to allow of the finger reaching the orifice of the ureter, so that even