HYDATIDS. 1047 pain, or very nervous, the ether spray may he locally applied. There is rarely any subsequent pain or uneasiness, hut if there is, an opiate should be given. As a rule, the evacuation of the tluid is followed by immediate relief from the sensations of weight and tension; but in many instances, after a week or ten days, the liver enlarges again, owing to some inflammatory effusion around and within the cyst-wall. This enlargement may increase for a week or ten days; but afterwards the inflammatory products are slowly absorbed, so that swelling should not lead to a hasty I'epetition of the tap})ing. The inflamma- tory changes are indicated by the character of the fluid which is wdthdrawn if a second puncture is made—this fluid being of a higher specific gravity, turbid, and containing albumen, and even a tinge of blood. It is no proof of an unsuccessful result of tapping, that some degree of fulness remains for many months in the situation of the tumor, liecause, as the operation, though it kills the hydatid, does not remove the parent-cyst and secondary vesicles, time must be allowed for them to undergo atrophy. It sometimes happens that the sac refills with fluid, and in this case the secondary eidargement does not subsequently diminish, but on the contraiy increases until the swelling again feels elastic or fluctuates. Under these circumstances a repetition of the tapping is requisite. The dangers of tapping are (1) acute j)eritonitis, from tlie escape of some of the hydatid fluhl into the peritoneum, and (2) suppuration of the cyst. An altogether exceptional risk is illustrated by a case recorded by Mr. Bryant,^ in which sudden death follow’ed the puncture of a single hydatid cyst, owing to the perforation of the truidc of tlie i)ortal vein which had been displaced forwards and upwards by the tumor. Blood escaped into the cyst and peritoneum; but death was attributed not to the hemorrhage, but to the escape of some of the hydatid fluid into the portal vein. With due care on the ]>art of the surgeon and absolute (piietness on the part of the })atieut, these risks are not gi-eat, and there are several cases on record to prove that peritonitis is not by any means necessarily set up by the escape of the hydatid fluid into the pei'itoneal cavity.^ It is quite unnecessary to wuiit for the formation of adhesions between the cyst and parietal peritoneum; nor should any steps be taken to induce them. The elasticity of the walls is sutfleient to close the opening made by a small instrument. No irritating substance, such as alcohol or iodine, should be injected into the cyst after withdrawing the liquid ; it is not requisite for the purpose of killing the ])arasite, and it is jH'one to excite dangerous inflamma- tion in the cyst. In some cases in wduch jumeture has seemed to cure the tumor, the patients have returned after months or years with a cyst as large as ever, and in sonie instances in a .state of sup])uration. It is undeniable that in s(uno of these cases the original cyst has refilled ; but it is equall}^ certain that in others the recurrent tumor is due to the growth of a fresh cyst, wdiich may or may not have existed in a small and unrecognized form at the time of the operation. Puncture is not contra-indicated either by the great size of the tumor, or by the presence of some amount of irritation in it. The latter condition suggests a risk of suppuration, but good recoveries have followed puncture in both classes of cases.^ There are two conditions however in wdiich a free incision should certainly be employed instead of puncture, namely: (1) wdien tbe cyst’s contents are very largely composed of daughter-cysts instead of fluid, and, (2) wdien ' Trans. Clinical Society, vol. xi. j>. 230. See paper by Ur. Fagge, Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. liv. ; and paper by Ur. Damn, Trans. (Tin. Soc., vol. vi. 3 dreenliow, loe. cit., vol. xviii. ; Daffin, loc. cit. vol. vi.