INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 58 returned temporarily with unparalleled violence, to again subside. Inquiry should always be made of friends or relatives as to the previous history of patients with head injuries. I lately assisted Dr. C. Iv. Mills and Dr. Healy in making a post-mortem examination of the brain of a young man, aged 19, who had been stunned by a horse-kick in the/«ee, three weeks prior to his death. Upon opening the head, recent meningitis with serous eifusion Avas found, and two small syphilitic tumors of the brain-substance. Here the concussion set up such a degree of congestion and irritation as to render fatal a disease of long duration, Avhich had been quiescent and utterly unsus- pected. The head synqitoms were iirst noticed by the patient just about a week after the injury, that is, at tlie time that intracranial inliammation usually declares itself to the patient, although the physician may perhaps detect its onset at an earlier date. Prognosis of Cerebral Concussion.—This should ahvays be guarded. Rapid reaction, vomiting, restored intelligence, normal special senses, absence of severe or constant headache—especially if these negative symptoms persist for some da^'s after the sixth, the usual time of advent of intracranial inham- mation-—are all encouraging symptoms. Prolonged collapse, relaxed sphinc- ters, a weak, rapid circulation, progressive stupor, and heavy, labored respi- ration—that is, symptoms indicative of serious cerebral lesion^—are almost certain harbingers of death. A relapse into stupor after regaining conscious- ness, repeated convulsions, and subnormal temperature, are bad signs. “ Marked restlessness, screaming, and a rapid pulse,” Agnew thinks, are “infallible evidences of a])proaching death.” Excessive reaction, a full, rapid pulse, violent headache, delirium, and intolerance of light and sound, are—• as indicative of impending, if not of actually present, intracranial inflamma- tion—symptoms of the utmost gravity. Treatment.—In the stage of collapse, Avarmth along the spine and to the feet, Avitli sina])isms to the epigastrium, usually suffices. As Ave never can be sure Avhether Ave are not dealing Avitli a case of intracranial extravasation of blood, or a contused cerebrum, stimulants must be resorted to as little as possible, since under such circumstances “ a i)eriod of depression Avould be the safeguard of the patient.” (lleAvett.) If, hoAveA^er, death seems impend- ing, they must be cautiously resorted to.^ I prefer hot coffee, Avhich is a good cardiac stimulant, then carbonate of ammonium, and lastly alcoholic preparations, Avhich, on account of their being more readily obtainable, are those upon Avhich Ave most commonly haA^e to fall back.^ Prof. Gross re- commends the use of stimulating enemata, such as those containing oil of turpentine, etc., but I have had no personal experience of tlieir use in cerebral concussion. Whiskey or ether may be injected subcutaneously if the patient cannot swalloAv. After marked depression, marked reaction is apt to result, although they are not alAvays propoi’tionate. Reaction Avithin moderate limits should not be actiA^ely interfered Avith. Perfect quietude of mind and body should be enjoined. Ice, or evaporating lotions, should be kept constantly applied to the head, Avliich, if the case be a serious one, should be shaved. The head and shonlders should be kept slightly eleA^ated. A mercurial, folloAved by a saline purge, should ' As the senses are so obtuse, great care must be exercised in the administration of fluids by the mouth, lest they gain access to the air-passages, tims producing suffocation. The same may be said concerning strong smelling-salts, aqua ammoniae, etc., which it is often advised should be held beneath the patient’s nose. Laryngeal spasm and subsequent irritation of the air-passages may result from their careless use. 2 Stimulants, if given even in small quantities at too short intervals, may be unabsorbed in the Stomach during collapse, to be absorbed as one large dose when reaction sets in, producing, possibly, a dangerous degree of cardiac action.