816 INJURIES OF THE CHEST. hemorrliage may occur, as it may in wounds of other parts of the body. I have quoted above a marked example of such delay in the develo]»ment. of blood-etfusion.’ An inflammatory eftusion, but still serous in character, as has been observed by C. Is"elaton, may occasion the signs of pressure and displacement of the thoracic viscera—this fluid originating during the pro- cess of the blood-coagula becoming encysted. Lastly, the signs of pressure from fluid eftusion may be, and in these conditions are, most commonly due to })urulent eftiision. If the wound be a bullet-injury, if it be freely open either to the external air or to the bronchial surface, and if a time sufticient for the development of pus have elapsed between the receipt of injury and the development of signs of fluid-eftusion, the doubts as to its nature can be but few. Assuming the position or form of the wound to be un- favorable for enlargement, or that the wound has been closed—under these conditions, Avhich must necessarily be the most exceptional, the solution of the problem as to the qualities of the fluid should be determined by an exi)loratory puncture with the aspirator. The treatment to he adopted will be decided by the result of the exploration. If the fluid to whose accumu- lation are due the s^miptoms of intra-thoracic pressure, be blood-serum or serous ])leural eftusion, its withdrawal with the aspirator—proper attention to cleaidiness of the instrument and to the avoidance of entry of air being assured—may suftice to terminate both the symptoms of distress and the formation of ftuid. A single tapping majq as was noticed in the discussion of pleural eftusion following contusion of the chest, accomplish this object. If the fluid prove to be purulent, further proceedings must be adopted, for with ou]’ present knowledge the reproduction of the purulent effusion is a certainty. Temporary relief may be obtained, and in some cases it may he the only object desirable to be obtained, by drawing oft a certain amount of pus. A cure without a free discharge of the fluid, Avhich cannot be obtained by the aspirator alone, is an impossiliility. Of the many devices proposed, there are hut two which demand the atten- tion of the practical surgeon: free incision of the pleural cavity, and the more guarded antiseptic evacuation of the empyema, combined with free drainage. Naturally, where wounds exist or are only recently closed, or, though existing, yet fail to provide a free escape for the fluid, a free incision enlarging the original opening will be preferred ; but if the wounds are un- favorably j)laced, a counter-opening in a suitable, dependent position should he made. In making a counter-opening, care must be taken that the point selected is one from which it shall be possible to reach the cavity containing the fluid; to select, in obedience to formal rules, any i)articular site, must some time lead to disappointment, for an adhesion of the lung, or the presence of encysted coagula, may defeat the object of the operation ; if it be possible, the ]>oint of incision should be determined, in making counter-openings, by the introduction through the wound of a ]H’obe or sound, which, projected against the wall of the cavity from within, may serve to guide the incision. In the case of a closed wound or wounds, so placed as to render this process impossible or unadvisable, a careful physical examination, and a preliminary exploi-ation, should determine the spot for operation. A strange eri-or has been cuiTcnt, that a j>oint low down in the chest, either in front, or at the side or back, should be chosen for the incision, so as to provide for a dc- })endent flow—an incision between the eighth and ninth, or ninth and tentb ribs ; but such a position, apart from the risks to the diaphragm and abdom- inal viscera which it entails, will not be placed in the most dependent parr of the pleural cavity, unless we assume that the patient is to spend the • McDonnell’s case, page 800, supra.