677 FISTULA OF THE LAKYNX AND TRACHEA. 1043) are highly commended by most surgeons. A pair of shouldered for- ceps used by myself (Fig. 1044)—a combination of Gross’s nasal polypus-for- ceps aud Simrock’s nasal dressing-forceps—seems to me both stronger and easier of manipulation. The instrument is first used as a sound to detect the foreign substance, and then the eflbrt is made to seize it or dislodge it, as may be. For substances—such as nut-kernels, for example—impacted in a bronchus, a stout copper wire, bent into a short blunt hook, serves an admir- able purpose. The forefinger is often available as a searclier or guide to instruments. The bifurcation of the trachea can usually be reached with it.^ Eftbrts at extraction should not be too prolonged. It is better to keep the wound patent—by dilators, hooks, or stitches—and to repeat the ettorts on the clay following. A canula would be out of place if the foreign substance were below the wound, as it Avould impede tlie spontaneous expulsion which often follows the practice here recommended. Spontaneous expulsion after tracheotomy is often delayed until the inflammatory secpielfe have subsided. Thus, a pin-point dart was expelled from a bronchus sixteen days after the ope- ration.^ In removing substances from a bronchus, after tracheotomy, Annaii- dale^ recommends a deep inspiration, and temporary occlusion of the Avound until the deep expiration folloAvs—a movement Avhich often drives the body out. Many ingenious devices have been employed to meet special indications. Thus, in the removal of tracheotomy tubes, a Avire is used, the end of Avhich has been bent into a blunt hook to catch the edge of the tube. Davy^ placed a patient’s head slightly loAver than his heels, threaded the eye of a surgical probe for safety, hooked the probe at the other end and caught it on the edge of the outer tube, and thus extracted both tubes, Avhich had been telescoped in the trachea to the extent of of inches. A pen-case Avas in the left bronchus ; tracheotomy had been performed; Laidler® passed a silver plummet, fifteen inches long, by tlie side of the foreign body, and moved it up and down, much after the manner of priming a pump. By this plan, aided by voluntary cough, the body Avas eventually coaxed to the orifice and extracted Avith forceps. In cool Aveather, the air of the apartment occupied by the patient should be kept artificially warmed to about 70° F., and should be moistened by evapo- ration of hot Avater as long as the artificial opening is kept patulous. When it becomes desirable to close the wound, it is merely necessary to retain its cutaneous edges in apposition Avith adhesive strips. Ordinary pharyngotomy has been performed by Wheeler® to remove a needle impacted in an ai'ytenoid cartilage, and sub-hyoidean pharyngotomy has been performed by Lefferts^ to remove a Avatch-ring imbedded in the aryteno- epiglottic fold and the ventricular band. Both these procedures, hoAvever, are unusual in the management of foreign bodies in the air-passages. Fistula of the Larynx and Trachea. Fistulfe of the larynx and of the trachea occur as congenital defects, and as pathological perforations. The surgical laryngotomy or tracheotomy Avound is a fistula likewise, but, being made on purpose, does not come into discussion here. ' Sands, cited by Buck (Trans. New York Academy of Medicine, 1870). ^ Conner, Am. .Jour. Med. Sci., October, 1877, p. 595. ® Med. Times and Graz., Feb. 27, 1875. ■* Brit. Med. .Jour., July 8, 1876. ^ Brit. Med. Jour., October 27, 1877, p. 590. ® Medical Press and Circular, April 22, 1875. i Medical Record, Dec. 15, 1874.