INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 584 probability chiefly turn on the complications which may exist. All wounds in this region are of course liable to the same accidents as similar injuries else- where, but they liave, besides, special dangers of their own, and even slight wounds may become tlie source of the utmost anxiety. Inflammation followed by extensive and rapid effusion may arise at au}^ time and occasion the utmost danger. The great risk is interference with the breathing, and it has been shown how many conditions may cause this either early or late. Small wounds of the air-passages are sometimes more dangerous than large ones, from imperfect drainage. The weak and irritable condition so often present in suicides, insane per- sons, and the old, renders their wounds more liable to complications. Per- sons sutfering from delirium tremens, as is well known, are peculiarly apt to suffer from low inflammation and rapid exhaustion. That, however, there is always hope of recovery even in the most desperate cases, is amply shown by the records of surgery. Many instances exist of recovery following the most extensive, and, at first sight, ho])eless-looking wounds, and this some- times in most unpromising patients. AVhen the bleeding can be stayed and the breathing kept free, we need never despair. As to the treatment of wounds of the neck, it is manifest that the leading indications are to command the bleeding, secure free respiration, and overcome shock. To accomplish these ends, the same measures are employed here as in other wounds, and do not call for detailed remark. If, in order to fulfil these purposes, it be requisite to enlarge the original wound, the surgeon must not hesitate. To secure all the wounded bloodvessels may not be easy, and requires much precious time. A ligature should be ap})lied to both ends of divided vessels, and upon either side of punctured Avounds. In narrow, deep wounds, the difficulty of carrying this out is very great. Pressure is almost impossible to apply effectively, even in superficial wounds. Pressure-forceps, if quickly applied, will, hoAvever, be of much service by giving time for the application of ligatures. The entrance of blood into the windpipe must be carefully prevented, and if necessary a large tracheal tube must be inserted, and the space round it closed by plugging. The trickling of blood into the air-passages Avill, in a weak or fainting patient, readily occasion sIoav and insidious suffocation. Hemorrhage from small veins is best arrested by keeping tlie respiration free. Other sources of embarrassed respiration, such as the semi-detached tongue, or epi- glottis, or cartilage, must be attended to. If dangerous emphysema arise, it may be necessary to enlarge small and narrow wounds ; but otherwise, unless there be bleeding or deficient drainage, they are best left alone. The use of sutures in Avounds of the throat, has given rise to much contro- versy. Their careless employment has occasioned so much harm as to have led to their general condemnation. Modern surgery, lioAveA^er, does not so rigidly exclude their use in all cases as Avas done some years ago. It is true, and cannot be too strongly insisted on, that if tlie breathing, or drainage, be in any Avay obstructed, or emphysema caused, by their pi’esence, then noth- ing but harm and danger can come from their use. Good and not eA’il Avill, hoAvever, folloAV by approximating the lips at the ends of long Avounds bj’ a few stitches, so as to counteract the great gaping, and this Avill be the more necessary if the tracliea be entirely divided, and if it retract much, as it is apt to do. It is seldom that the larynx or trachea themselves require to be stitched, and Avhen that has been attempted, good results have rarely folloAved. It is the centre of the external Avound Avhich it is of most consequence to leave 0[>en, and if at any time indications of deficient drainage or imprisoned air appear, any stitches Avhich have been introduced should be removed. The