78 INJURIES or THE HEAD, tolerance of souiul. Fever, ivitli hot, dry skin, and a rapid, hard pulse, accom- pany these cerebral symptoms. All the symptoms increase in severity with the advance of the intracranial inflammation, and soon nausea, vomiting, obstinate constipation, restlessness, constant jactitation, delirium, and con- vulsions—one or all—mark the progress of the case. Then, as the inflammatory effusions are poured out, symptoms of irritation or pressure begin to manifest themselves. Drowsiness, dilatation of one or both pupils, oscillation of the eyeballs, irregular twitchings or even spasms of the muscles, steadily increas- ing coma, stertorous, pufling respiration, a slow, full pulse, incontinence of feces and urine—the result of paresis of the sphincters—paralysis, and death, too commonly succeed one another. Where the pressure-symptoms are due to the formation of pus, more or less marked chilliness, or rigors, are apt to precede the signs of compression. If cerebral abscess forms, the temperature will be usually subnormal, either at the outset only, or continuously until the pus is evacuated, when it will probably suddenly rise. ANTiile typical cases present most, if not all, of the symptoms detailed, and commonl}" in the order given, in many instances they vary markedly. So dissimilar from the standard given in text-books ai’e many cases met with in practice, that the diagnosis of intracranial inflammation is oftentimes a most puzzling affair to the tyro, and may sometimes even baffle the expert. Al- though it may be impossible positively to assert, in any case of head-iujury, that the symptoms proceed from an inflammation of the brain-substance and the visceral layers of the meninges, the result of concussion—or that they are due to contusion and subsequent inflammation of the bone and the sufjjacent dura mater, with the parietal arachnoid-—yet attentive study of the time of onset of cerebral symptoms often enables the surgeon to determine where the inflammation has started, and therefore the structures which are most likely to be chiefl}’ involved. A post-mortem examination will, indeed, often dis- l)i’ove the opinion thus formed, but in many cases it will verify the accuracy of the inferences founded upon the time of onset of the symptoms. From the intense congestion of tlie cerebral mass, with its investing pia mate]-, which results from concussion, we should expect the early onset of signs of inflammatory mischief; and accordingly we find that in many cases the symptoms begin within a few hours. Four or five days usually elapse before symptoms of cerebritis declare themselves after contusion or laceration of the brain-substance, and until this time a most deceptive calm, with an ai>parent entire absence of any mischief resulting from the injury, is apt to prevail. Inflammation consequent upon contusion of hone may appear early, as in a number of Pott’s cases, but it is far more apt to “ smoulder,” as has been said, for two or three weeks, and then to suddenly burst forth. The symptoms of cerebral abscess are not usually pronounced until about the twenty-fifth day upon the average, although I have seen them within two weeks of the injury. Convulsions are a most uncertain symptom, especially in the young. When occurring immediately after the injury, they are certainly not due to inflammation. Again, they may appear just about the time when intracra- nial inflammation is to be expected, leading to the supposition that encepha- litis has commenced, when nothing of the sort exists. Being simply indica- tive of irritation of the cerebrum, of its membranes, or of all these structures, convulsions are produced by too many varied causes to be of any particular value as a means of diagnosis in intracranial inflammations. Treatment.—I place in the first rank as to importance, prophylaxis. As has been, I trust, made clear, there is a variety of meningitis arising directly from the intense congestion of the brain and its membranes which results