FALSE ANUS. 981 and the different secretions which are poured into the intestine or produced by it; and the ill consequences which follow from this discharge. Colicky pains are often experienced, and arc attributed by -lobert to the inability of a great part of the bowel to perform its iisual functions. The inflammatory affections of the skin around the opening have been already alluded to ; and in old, long-standing cases, callosities occur from the irritation and inflammation excited by the acridity of the constantly escaping matters. Iliffercnces in the character of the matters which escape, and in the length of the interval between taking food and the flow from the false anus, depend upon the exact situation of the intestinal opening; the nearer the stomach the less feculent and moi'o chyle-like the discharge, and the shorter the interval before its escape. Although there are not a few cases in which the health and sti-ength of patients thus afflicted have been preserved, in a greater number the ill effects upon the constitution are very marked; loss of strength, rapid ema- ciation, and death from inanition, are the result of the food remaining too short a time in the digestive tube. Another effect of the same cause is wit- nessed in the very voracious appetite which these patients sometimes have. Terminations.—iJesault, Leblanc, lloin, and .lobert have observed ])atieuts thus affected die froiii inanition, .lobert speaks of death from rupture of the intestine due to crossing of the ends of the bowel ; Dupuytren, of two cases seen by him of death from ru})ture of bowel and escape of fecal matter into the peritoneum. Strangulation of the ends of the intestine is sometimes the cause of death, and is caused cither by over-lapping or crossing of the ends of the bowel, or l)y prolapse, i’uy, of Lyons, saw t\yo cases of death from this cause, and Iloin, Leblanc, and Sabatier cite similar instances. Though it is true that in the greater number of cases which have resulted from the total destruction of a convolution of the bowel, the false anus per- sists through life, and }iatients have lived 1-5, 20, and even -10 years with it; it is also true that in some cases in which the surgeon’s skill has proved power- less, nature has effected a cure most unexpectedly. I’iiieleL gives a case, tlie result of a crural hernia, in which the cure was effected by tiilsc membrane, and the ends of the intestine thus closed in were witbdrawn into the belly. Wedemeyer, of Hanover, relates a case of a woman, aged 82, with a false anus from a gangrened rupture which had resisted all attempts at cure. ISlie became pregnant, and as }>regnancy advanced the fecal discharge diminished; towards the close of gestation nothing escaped except a little }tus and serum; and in two months after her continement the opening had securely healed. It was very different in a case in which I had operated for crui-al hernia, and was subsequently consulted on account of intestinal obstruction during pregnancy:— A false anus followed the o[)eration within a few hours, from sloughing of the part of the bowel which had been strangulated, but a s[)ontancous cure occurred within six weeks. 8oinc two years afterwards the woman became [)regnaut, and between the fourth and fifth months of jiregnancy, intestinal obstruction attended by severe synqitoms occurred, owing as we supposed to interference with the adherent coil of bowel by the enlarging uterus. Abor- tion was consequently induced b^^ sponge tents, ami complete recovery en- sued. Some years afterwards I heard through the family in whose service she had lived (her family medical attendant having died, and she having changed her place of residence), that this patient bad died of bowel-obstruction during pregnancy ; and from my experience of her }»revious attack, I do not doubt that tbe cause of death was the pressure exerted Iq^ the uterus iqion the bowel which had been the seat of tbe false anus, and which still remained adherent in the femoral region and was bent at too acute an angle to allow Mem. lie I’Acail. ile Cliir. ^ L.'incet, Feb. -1, 1&71', i». l.'jO, Case III.