INJURIES OF THE SCALP. 7 attack of erysipelas, which was chiefly facial, and which, when I saw it, did not seem to affect the neighborhood of the wound. This precedence of the general over the local symptoms, and the implication of the lymphatic glands, should be borne in mind in head injuries, when otherwise unaccount- able, feverish symptoms arise. In the treatment of this affection, attention to the bowels, nutritious food, stimulants, in those accustomed to their use and when not contra-indicated by the cerebral conditions, and iron and quinia, are all that need be resorted to. At times the patient experiences relief from the burning, tingling, cuta- neous pain by the ai;)plication of cloths wet with lead-water and laudanum, or with simple mucilage of sassafras pith. Phlegmonous erysipelas^ a much more serious affection, is apt to be ushered in by marked constitutional symptoms.^ It show's itself at first f)y slight pufliness near the wound, without redness of the skin. From plastic effusion, the scalp soon becomes greatly tliickened and indurated, and, if unrelieved, the disease may lead to extensive sloughing of the cellular tissue, the aponeu- rosis, the pericranium, or even tlie scalp itself. In consequence, the bone may be extensively denuded, and in certain cases more or less necrosis follows, although this is no more a necessary result than it is where wounds denude the bone. Diagnosis.—From simple accumulation of pus or inflammatory products beneath the occipito-frontalis, erysipelas can be usually distinguished by remembering the points of attachment of the aponeurosis. Subaponeurotic pus may be accompanied by re<ldening of the skin somewhat beyond the attach- ments of the aponeurosis, but unless really complicated with erysipelas, the blush does not attack the ears, cheeks, etc. The pus can gravitate no lower than the zygoma, the iqiper eyelids, the attachments of tlie pyrimadales nasi, and the superior curved lines of the occipital bone behind, pouches being formed above the root of the nose, the zygoma, and the superior curved lines of the occipital. This condition, with the superficial blush which sometimes extends more over the face than I have described, has been often mistaken for erysipelas and attributed to the use of sutures, but it is in reality simply a dermatitis, due to retention of inflammatory products, which commonly declines when the imprisoned fluids have been di-ained away.^ As regards the treatment of phlegmonous erysipelas of the scalp, at the first onset of the local symi)toms all stitclies must be removed, the edges of the Avound separated at a suflieient number of points to insure a free exit for the effused fluids, and poultices or water-dressings, covered with oiletl silk or waxed paper, applied. The bowels should, if necessary, be opened by an enema oi’ a mild saline purge, and the treatment just advised for the cutaneous variety of erysipelas, at once instituted. Despite these measures, should the plastic effusion extend, multiple punctures of the scalp, or, at most, numerous small incisions, will prove of advantage, and are not so likely to lead to free bleeding as the long incisions sometimes advised. Anything, like free oozing, even from the punctures, must be checked as soon as |)Ossible, since tliese patients cannot afford to lose blood. In persons of [>revious good healtl}, the relief of tension effected by these incisions usually suflices to prevent exten- sive sloughing, yet at times great destruction of cellular tissue, aponeurosis, and pericranium takes place, although from the peculiarities of the blood-supply of the scalp, already adverted to, this structure is rarely destroyed, at least to any considerable extent. A rare accident is the laying open of a large ' Local symptoms may precede tlie constitutional. 2 Tetanus is an occasional complication. The reader is referred, for details, and a thorough consideration of all the varieties of erysipelas, to the article on that suliject in Vol. I.