975 FECAL FISTULiE. and discharged, besides feces, the doul)le loop of ligature with which the pedicle had been secured. In three days from this time the wound had healed, and in three weeks more the patient had left the hospital well. (5) Any disease of tiie bowel which causes ulceration or sloughing may lead to fecal fistula. Thus simple, syphilitic, and cancerous strictures, and other causes of intestinal obstruction, frequently give rise to internal or external fecal fistula, fecal abscess, or fecal extravasation. Mr. Garlick,^ of Marlborough, repoi’ted the case of a gentleman aged sixty-five, who sutfered from cancerous stricture of the sigmoid flexure, and who for six weeks before his death passed no feces but what came away Avith his urine. At the post- mortem examination, a communication (more of the character of an artificial anus, however, than of a fistula) was found to exist between the colon and tlie fundus of the bladder; both colon and bladder at this }>art were much thickened, and the diameter of the colon, particularly the part of it which terminated in the rectum, Avas much contracted; this contraction Avas supposed to be the reason Avhy no feces had been discharged per annm. I have performed colotomy upon an old gentleman Avith rnneh the same coiidition, nearlj" all the feces being AUjided througli the bladder and urethra. The relief afibrded by colotomy in such cases is so great that it is simply cruel to deprive the patient of its benetit; nay rnoi-e, it is bad practice to alloAv the disease ever to reach this stage Avithout previously performing the operation. Entero-vaginal, recto-vaginal, gastro-colic, gastro-iliac, ca?cal, and other fistuhe are formed in this Avay. Scai’cely a fortnight passes Avithout one or other of these forms of fistula, the result of cancer, being seen at the IMiddlesex Hospital. (6) Fecal fistula is often the sequel of an attempted radical cure of artificial anus. Prognosis.—When a fecal fistula is due to a Avound, it generally closes spontaneously ; Avhen due to hernia, the prospect of recovery is good. When tlie boAA^el is obstructed by tiie pressure of a groAvth, or by adliesions or stricture, the chance of cure must largely depend upon the possil)ility of removing the cause of obstruction ; it is generallj^ very improbable, often ([uite impossible, to close tiie fistula arising from obstruction. JJiagnosis.—There is no ditficulty in diagnosing most of these cases, because the fecal character of the discharge at once declares it in an external fistula, and the passage of fecal matter by the AUigina, urethra, stoniaeli, or lungs, declares it in many of the internal. Blind fistuhe, and fistula' o})eniug into abscesses, may, hoAvever, be undetected for some time or altogether, and tistulous openings betAveen ditferent parts of tlie intestine may not be suspected. hior can the situation of the intestinal o[iening lie ahvays rightl}^ inferred from the character of the matter Avhich escapes. The negative evidence of all inodorous or non-feeulent discharge is suggestive of some part of the jejunum, or quite iqiper part of the ileum, Avhilst the positive evidence of semi-solid feces points to the large intestine, and [lure bile to the duodenum or up[ier part of the jejunum. But it must be remembered that fecal matter sometimes escapes from the stomach, oAving to a communication Avith tlie colon, Avhilst in other cases fluid taken by the mouth may in a feAv minutes be discharged through a colic fistula; as in a case Avhich I have elseAvhere quoted, in which the transA^erse colon communicated Avith the duodenum as Avell as Avitli the surface of the abdomen. I once performed right colotomy on one of my colleague Dr. PoAvell’s patients, Avho Avas suffering from abdominal dis- tension due to obstruction—as I thought, in the transverse or splenic flexure of the colon. The operation Avas successful in completely relieving the patient ' Lonil. .Journal, p. 188. 1784.