1086 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. if R stone be impacted there, it may not be discovered till the cyst has dis- charged for some time and has shrunk. Abscess in the kidney is not to be confounded with pyonephrosis; it occurs in one form of surgical kidney, in pyremia, and in scrofulous disease of the organ; but it never causes much enlargement in the first two condi- tions, and not frequently in scrofulous disease, unless the whole kidne}’ is atfectcd. Solid Tumors of the Kidney.—Carcinoma, sarcoma, and myo-sarcoma or rhabdomyoma, occasionally occur as primaiy new growths in the kidney. Carcinoma is much more frequently secondary than primary. Injury and the irritation of calculus have, in several recorded cases, been the cause of primary cancer. Secondary carcinoma has, in quite a considerable number of cases, been preceded by carcinoma testis; in other cases, it follows cancer of the liver, stomach, breast, or nterus, etc. As a primary disease, it afiects one organ alone; as a secondary disease, usually both kidneys ai-e involved. It occurs as a primary disease in children before the fourth or fifth year; and in adults in advanced life. As a result of stone or laceration, it has caused death at the age of twenty-five. Though rapidly causing death after it has once commenced, it may require a long time before it is excited into existence: thus twenty years have elapsed between a fall which gave rise to a renal calculus with a blood-clot for its nucleus, and death from primary cancer of the kidney in which the calculus was situated. All forms of cancer have been met with in the kidney, but either the medul- lary or scirrhous are the most common, and medullary cancer is much more common than scirrhus. That which attains the greatest size is the medullary when it attacks children. Colloid of the kidney is met with, like tubercu- losis and carcinoma, as part of a general infection of the system. Cancer begins either in the fibrous stroma of the cortex, or in the epithe- lium of the renal tubes. Frequently, however, the proper tissue of the kidney is invaded by a cancer, which has had its primary seat in the lynqibatic glands or other structure about the hilus, and the disease, putting on the form of the kidney after penetrating the hilus and expanding the capsule, is called a “ renal” cancer. Moxon thinks tliis the commonest plan of attack in primary renal cancer, and as it may be long before the renal pelvis is penetrated, and as the proper renal tissue remains long intact, we have, he says, the reason of the frequent absence of diseased products in the urine. The whole organ in time becomes infiltrated, and when the disease begins within the capsule this process is very rapid; and cysts and bloody or purulent collections form in the organ as tlie disease advances. There is nearly always a tumor recog- nizable during life. The tissues around the kidney, too, become adherent to the organ, and sometimes the cancer advances outwards until it is immedi- ately beneath the skin in the loin. Sym2)tom,s.—The presence of a tumor in the loin, is almost a constant symptom in renal carcinoma. This tumor, though sometimes tender, is, as a rule, painless, until by its increased dimensions it exercises severe pressure upon surrounding structures. The pain radiates far and wide, and perhaps increases ])aroxysmally; axlema, constipation, and vomiting, and jaundice if the right kidney is the seat of disease, are frequently present. Iltematuria is not seldom noticed before a tumor; in some cases it is slight, or altogether absent; in others it is severe. Sometimes clots of blood partially block the ureter for a time, and then, after all the coloring matter has been washed out of them, are passed per lO'ethram as coloi-less, fibrinous shreds or columns. As a rule, the urine otters no indication of the nature of the tumor ; but occa- sionally, not only blood or coagula, but small cancerous masses are voided,