INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 722 in the trachea. Erosions of the trachea are sometimes produced ill-fitting tubes, and fungous granulations are not infrecpient at the site of the erosions. To avoid these accidents, IMr. Durham has devised a tube so curved that the two extremities occupy rectangular planes,' the horizontal portion being movable in a collar attached to the sheath, so that it can be set at the most^favorable point to permit the vertical portion to rest in the very centre of the trachea, and thus avoid attrition against its walls. (Figs. 1067,1068.) As a rigid tube cannot he introduced within the outer one, the distal portion of the inner eanula is articulated in lobster-tailed links. The piloting guide or trocar (Fig. 1069) has the same construction. These joints soon stiffen with mucus, Fig. 1069. Durham’s piloting trocar. which renders it difficult, and at times irnpossilile, to remove the inner eanula while the outer one remains in situ. Hence additional care is requisite to withdraw the inner eanula at intervals sufficiently frequent to avoid this occurrence. Theoretically, this form of tube demands the maintenance of a horizontal track through the soft tissues into the trachea. Should this track become oblique by the weight of the tube, as certainly does happen in some instances, the very evil would be produced for the avoidance of which it was devised. Soft-rubber, single tubes have been recommended by Mr. Morrant Baker^ for use after the first few days, as being more comfortable; they are open to the same objections as all other single tubes. Whatever form of eanula is used, it sometimes happens that difficulty is experienced in its introduction. When a conical conductor is not used, the edges of the incision ma}^ be held asunder by a tenaculum or blunt hook on each side, and the eanula may be passed between them. The dilators already described are often used for this purpose. The introduction may be facilitated in many instances by holding the body of the eanula transversely until the extremity has been passed into the trachea, and turning it dowiiAvard as it is pushed further on. It is customary to Avarm the eanula and to grease it before it is introduced into the artificial orifice. It thus enters more readily and excites less cough. Tapes are usually sewed to the slits or ilngs in the neck- piece, but buttons and button-holes render the tapes fully as secure as stitches, and permit their removal and renewal without disturbing the eanula. One tape should be much longer than the other, so that the two can be tied at tlie side of the neck instead of at the nape, a plan much the more convenient. To occlude the space between the eanula and the ti-achea, and thus prevent Practitioner, April, 1869, p. 212. ^ Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. lx. p. 71.