DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 842 Diagnosis.—As these growths are nsiially eucapsuled, and form circum- scribed tumors ill their early stage, they are not easily distinguished from the fibromata, but their progress and future behavior will in time reveal their true nature. Their shape is rounded or oval, with more or less lobulation, and their feel is firm in some cases (the spindle-celled), soft and elastic in others (the round-celled); but alteration in structure, or degeneration, may cause either of these varieties to be modified as regards its consistence. In the cystic variety, the growth is partly firm and partly elastic to the feel, and in the majority of cases occurs at an earlier age than in the solid form, and more particularly in the case of cystic, spindle-celled growths. Sarcomata may or may not be attached to the breast structure; frequently they push it aside, or cause it to atrophy. The skin over these growths remains movable and unaffected for a time, but when the tumor increases the skin may become thin, and ulcerate. As the growth progresses it may not only involve the skin, but may fungate, infiltrate the surrounding textures, and affect the internal organs. In connection with the diagnosis of these growths, I think it well to give the following quotation from the work of Dr. S. W. Gross, already referred to;—^ The diagnosis of small, slowly increasing, fibrous sarcomata is by no means easy, as they are very liable to be confounded with fibromata, particularly when they arise at the circumference of the mamma. A tumor, however, of soft, elastic, apparently fluc- tuating consistence, which attains the volume of an adult head in a few months, can scarcely be anything else than a small-celled sarcoma. On the whole, the diagnosis is based upon their indolent origin, mobility, central situation,' elastic or unequal con- sistence, lobulated outline, rapid increase, large dimensions for tlje period of their existence,freedom from lymphatic involvement, and marked tendency to ulcerate; upon the not infrequent discoloi'ation of the skin, enlargement of the subcutaneous veins, and, possibly, elevation of temperature; upon the suffering which they awaken late in the disease; and upon their greatest frequency after the thirty-fifth year. Between the solid and cystic varieties there are certain distinctions which are useful in establishing a differential diagnosis. The former develop at about the thirty-seventh year ; the skin is discolored in 16 percent, and adherent in 12 per cent.; the veins are dilated in 8 per cent.; there is no discharge from the nipple ; pain is met with in 30 per cent., but is slight; the tumor ulcerates in 12 per cent., and is characterized by malignant features in 77 per cent, of all instances. Cystic sarcoma starts at the thirty-third year, it grows more rapidly than J;he solid variety, and its increase is often sudden after having remained stationary or advanced slowly for some time. Now and then, after evacua- tion of the fluid of the superficial cysts, their solid contents can be detected by manipu- lation. The consistence of cystic sarcomata is, as a rule, unequal, and they are more largely lobulated than those of the former variety. The skin is discolored in 34 per cent., being of a bluish tint in one-third of all cases over the most prominent cysts; and it is adherent in 11 per cent.; the veins are enlarged in 25 per cent. ; the nipple is retracted in 5.71 per cent., and discharges fluid in 14.28 per cent. ; idceration occurs in 34.28 per cent. ; pain is experienced in 78 per cent., and it is usually harassing, while the disease is malignant in 64 per cent, of all cases. After the removal of these growths recurrence takes place locally, not as frequently as in cancer, hut more frequently than cancer in the internal organs. Gross states “that mammary sarcoma recurs locallj^ in 61.53 per cent, of all instances, and that it gives rise to secondary deposits in distant organs in 57.14 per cent.” “ In carcinoma, on the other hand, 88.35 per cent. olAhe local recurrences are met with in the first year, while only 50 per cent, of the cancers aftect distant parts.” Treatment.—Early and free removal of the tumor and surrounding textures, and, if the tumor is large or seriously involving the breast-structure, excision Op. cit., p. 99.