SUB-PARIETAL CONTUSION AND RUPTURE OF VISCERA. 877 attended witli pulping and effusion of blood, five inches long, exactl}^ corres- pond in g to the shape and position of the ninth rih, the tissues on Avliich were afso ecchymosed. I have reported a reiuarkahle case of slight rupture of tlie liver-suhstance at a part Avhere a hydatid cyst had been developed. The cyst was also ruptured and detached from the surrounding liver-tissue, and some hemorrhage into it had occurred from the torn surface of the organ. The liver-capsule Avas quite intact. The patient died of shock. Ogstoid says that of 26 ruptures of the liA^er, in 9 the seats of rupture Avere in^the right lobe, in 11 in the left lobe, and in 6 in the central parts. Of these, 9 took the antero-posterior direction and 2 the transverse, the others being irregular. It is curious that, though the liver-substance is often torn right up to the side of the hepatic portion of the vena cava, or the laceration even runs parallel for a long distance Avith a large branch of tlie hepatic vein, tlie coats of these vessels so often escape injury. A ease related by Dr. Pearson,^ and several others on record, justify this statement. In Pearson’s case, remarkable for more reasons than one, the liver Avas completely divided oblic|uely, and the tAvo portions Avere held together only by the vena cava and the trunks of the veme eavse hepaticie. In a man brought into the Middlesex Hospital dead, the liver Avas lacerated completely across its right lobe, the portions of Avhich i,Avere only held together by a feAV vessels AAdiich had escaped being torn. I have notes of other cases in Avhich the same con- dition Avas found. The sijmptoms of ruptured liver are extreme pallor and coldness of the sur- face; difficult and short, or sighing, breathing ; small, feeble pulse; abdomi- nal pain and distension, the distension not being entirely tympanitic; sense of sinking and vomiting, Avith sometimes great thirst; and occasionally itching of the skin, and jaundice if the patient live more than twenty-four hours. Diabetes has been said by" Bernard to folloAV injuries to the liver. If death does not occur from hemorrhage or collapse, there are the risks of peritonitis, and at a still later period of abscess of the liver, or of abscesses between the liver and some of its surroundings. After peritonitis has set in, there Avill he great tyunpauites, and as this subsides, dulness on percussion may' he detected either in the Man ks or in some circumscribed area about the liver. This dulness is due partly to extravasation, and partly^ no doubt to intlammatoiy effusion, and it may disappear in part or entirely if the patient survive a few Aveeks. Jiuptare of the spleen is less common than rupture of the liver, and AAdien it occurs it is frecpiently accompanied by injury to other abdominal or thoracic organs, and especially to the liA'er itself. It is often associated Avith fractured ribs. Spontaneous rupture of the spleen, according to Rokitansky and others, occurs in typhus and ty’phoid fevers, choleia, and the hot stage of ague, and leads to death from hemorrhage. Hemorrhage is the cliief cause of death after traumatic rupture of the spleen, hut though this organ is more vas- cular than any' otlier in the abdomen, uncomplicated injuries to it are not as quickly fatal as injuries to the liver. This, perhaps, is attributable to the great elasticity of the s]denic capsule and trahecula3. If the splenic vein or artery he torn, death Avill he almost instantaneous, as in the case, detailed by Hennen,^ of the soldier Avho received a A'iolent blow in the abdomen AAdiilst fighting, and died in a foAv minutes from rupture of tlie spleen and splenic vein. In another case,^ rapid death from hemorrhage folloAved after rupture * British and Foreign Med.-Cliir. Review, vol. xxxix. p. 204. 1867. 5 Medical Transactions published by the College of I’liysicians in London, vol. hi. p. 377. ^ Op. cit., p. 44.A. ■* Medico-Cliirurgieal Review, October, 1839.