925 PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. collections in tlie abdomen “ the removal of which may ultimately require the assistance of surgery/'^ it has at least, to judge by recorded cases, shown John Bell to have conjectured wrongly'when he said that the pancreas could not be hurt “without a most complicated and absolutely fatal wound.Otis has collected three cases of recovery from stah-wound followed by protrusion and removal of a portion of the pancreas, and gives hiuef notes of another case of recovery after shot-wound, under the care of Surgeon J. G. Thompson, during the War of the American Eehcllion. The most interesting, and ap- parently the best authenticated case, is that of Caldwell.^ In 181( i, a negro man was stabbed in the left side, and “ an oblong hod}’, between three and four inches in length, was observed to he protruded between the last true and the tirst false rib.” Being in a gangrenous state, it was removed by the lustoury, and the patient soon recovered, and was living and quite well eleven years after, “ having suffered no inconvenience from the loss of the part or its unnatural adhesions.” Drs. lloherts. Heard, and Caldwell made a critical examination of the part removed, and were convinced that the mass cut away was a portion of the pancreas. In Thompson’:: case, the hall entered helow’ the ribs on the right side and emerged on the left, and two days afterwards, Avhile the patient uuis straining at stool, a hernia of the pancreas, as large as a hen’s egg, occurred. The projecting mass Avas ligatured with silver Avire, and cut aAvay Avitli scissors. The patient Avas convalescent in tAvo months. Some authors have asserted that, after an injury to the pancreas, there rniglit he an effusion of colorless liquid, as a characteristic symptom of the lesion ; and that after Avomids of the thoracic duct, clear lym]»h, Avhen digestion had not been going on, and a milky fluid after a meal, might escape from the external Avound; hut 1 am not aAvare that such an occurrence has ever been observed. Penetrating v'oands of the kldneg have been described by almost all sys- tematic Avriters, ami a s[)ecial dissertation on them Avas }iuhlished by Gittler, at Leipzig, as far hack as 159(). They present many differences, according as they affect the cortex only, or penetrate to the tubular and pelvic portions of the organ, and as they do or Jo not involve the peritoneum, or large bloodvessels of the kidney. From its anatomical position, Avounds of the kidney, like suh-})arietal ruptures, may he of tAvo chief classes: (1) Those inflicted upon the posterior surface, and in Avhich the peritoneum is not in- volved ; (2) those affecting the front surface, and in Avhich the peritoneal cavity is necessarily perforated, and very probably some of the other viscera are injured as Avell. >Sf/M/jtonis.—The symptoms of a Avound of the kidney Avill vary according to the situation and depth of the Avound. If superficial, so that it involves the cortical structure only, blood and urineAvill escape at the external Avound,or into tlie abdominal cavity, according to the situation of the injury. If the Avouud ho deep, and the tubular structure or calyces are reached, blood Avill almost certainly he passed by the urethra, and clots are likely to accumulate in the bladder, though urine and blood may also escape into the surroumling parts. The injury is generally folloAvcd hy great ]iain in the lumbar regioii, pain ami spasmodic retraction of the testicle, nausea and vomiting, dysuria, muscular s})asm or rigidity, and aftenAuirds hy nephritis, protracted siqquiration, or more or less peritonitis. If the peritoneum is involved, and urine is oxtravasated into its cavity, fatal peritonitis must he expected. When the injury to the Systwn of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 147. ^ Op. cit,., 3d ed., p. 360. Transylvania .louni. of Med., vol i. p. 1 10. 1828.