INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TUE ABDOMEN. 908 Med.-Cbir. Trans., vol. xliv. p. 13. the membranous part of the urethra. A less complete septum might, pei’- haps, give rise to the umbilico-vesical hernia described by Boyer, and from the ease with Avhich it yields to an instrument passed along the urethra, such a septum might not be suspected to haA^e existed. Agnew* has briefly mentioned a case seen by him, Avhich, in the absence of proof to the contrary, is capable of being explained on Boyer’s theory; it Avas that of a child, Avho had no fistulous opening at the umbilicus ; but AAdien urine Avas alloAved to accumulate in the bladder, the navel became distended. The kind of orifice is not the same in all urachal fistulie:— 1. In some, a peculiar, buttondike, papillary or columnar projection at the umbilicus, having an orifice at its summit, has been described. Mr. BiyanB mentions a case in Avhich the projecting mass Avas about the size of, and not unlike, the glans penis. The orifice Avas constantly moist, but especially so Avhen the bladder AA^as distended. The boy AA^as eight years old, and the con- dition Avas congenital. It Avas regarded as a case of open urachus. IMr. T. Smith^ gives a brief note of a case very similar to Mr. Bryant’s. The boy Avas tAvo years old, and had a button-like protrusion at the umbilicus, Avhich Avas constantly moist, and the discharge, though slight, had the odor of urine. 2. The urine may escape at several points on the surface of a hernial pro- trusion, as in the case described in the Medicinische Zeitung. An infant aged four Aveeks had a urachal fistula discharging indne copiously through several points on the excoriated surface of a hernial swelling which pro- jected three-cpiarters of an inch. The excoriated area Avas one-quarter of an inch long and one line broad. The urine Avas normally discharged by the urethi’a. 3. The orifice may be a mere deficienc}^—circular, OA^al, or irregular—in the linea alba. In the adult male patient under the care of Mr. Paget, of Leicester, it Avas cii’cular, Avith a thick margin of cartilaginous hardness. 4. It may be situated in the cup-like depression of the navel, or hidden from AueAv by the falling togetlier of the skin of the umbilicus. In a second case described by Mr. Paget,^ that of a female child aged four months, the orifice Avas thus hidden from vicAv, but on drawing aside the folds of skin, urine ahvays escaped ; the lining membrane of the tube AA^as cuticular for a short distance, and then became mucous membrane; the orifice aa'rs large enough to receive an ordinary cedar pencil. 5. There may be, as already mentioned, a hernial protrusion at the umbili- cus ; the external covering of such a hernia instead of being skin is mucous membrane, Avhicli, hoAvever, becomes pale and dry after prolonged exposure. In these cases the fistulous orifice is at the side or on the summit of the hernia. In some cases the hernial protrusion acts like a plug to prevent the continual escape of urine, but is withdraAvn during the act of micturition by the ]tull of the vesical muscular fibres, and thereupon urine is ejected at the fistula as Avell as along the urethra. This Avas the condition in Mr. I’aget’s adult patient; the first contraction of the bladder had no other effect than to draAV into the abdomen the Avhole of the protruding parts, and until this was accomplished no urine passed by the urethra. The jet of urine from the umbilicus Avhich then folloAved, AA^as sudden, and ceased, not to be rencAved except by a violent accelerating action of the expulsor muscles. The bladder Avould retain a pint of urine Avithout any escaping, and it seems to me that this case sheds some light on several points connected Avith A^esical rupture. 6. The fistula may be indirect. It Avill probably be so Avhen an abscess * Agnew’s Surgery, vol. i. p. 388. 2 Meil. Times and G.azette, vol. i. p. 456. 1862. 3 Ibid., vol. i. p. 320. 1863.