1051 HYDATIDS. IN THE Middlesex Hospital.—ConUmied. Treatment, ■with dates. Oct. 18. Tumor was tapped, and j oz. of blood- stained and somewhat milky fluid <Irawn ofl’, containing flakes and granular-looking shreds of membrane. On the !l3d he got jaundice. The tumor was then again aspirated, and only 3 oz. of fluid withdrawn. It was then freely incised, and a quantity of fluid with collapsed cysts escaped. A drainage-tube was inserted. On tlie 25th the tube was removed, and the wound left to heal, it having been washed out daily. By Nov. 15 the wound had liealed, but the tumor had reformed. Nov. 17, the tumor was again opened, and only a small quantity of sanguineous fluid withdrawn. The discliarge from the wound then became very free and in character that of pus. He had also developed a cough with otfensive sputum. The discharge gradually became more profuse. Result. Stay iu hospital. Post-iuortcm report. Death. 54 days. The right lobe of the liver was found to be almost entirely replaced by 3 large cysts ; 1 emptied by paracentesis ; an- other fill’d with daugh- ter-cysts ; a tliird was suppurating, and had 1 made its way into the ■ lower lohe of right I lung. Kidneys granu- I lar. I May 24. A trocar was inserted into tumor, and only a small quantity of blood withdrawn. The abdomen continued to swell, and vomiting set in after this : also a-dema of both legs and hands. Death. 41 days. The right lobe of the liver I was almost entirely oc- cupied by a lai'ge sup- jiurating hydatid cyst wliich had perforated ! through the diajdi- I ragm into the right jileura, causing empy- ema and compression of the lungs. luly 4. An exploratory puncture was made with a hypodermic syringe 2 inches below the scapula, and a few drops of pale, clear fluid ami air withdrawn. .Inly 14. The swelling was aspirated between the 9th and 10th ribs. Then a free incision was made, and 43 oz. of pus and gelatinous, lu’ownish-colored membrane let out. A drainage-tube was inserted. .July 29. 'The wound was irrigated with a solution ol tincture of iodine 5.)~t)j- .Sept. 24. The tumor was explored with a fine trocar and canula. 8ome broken-down granu- lar material with large cells containing nuclei escaped. Oct. 2. The tumor was again aspi- rated and small pieces of semi-transparent membrane were removed. Oct. 4. The patient ansesthetized, and a small incision was made in the seat of the old puncture, and a curved trocar and canula inserted into tumor. On with- drawing the trocar some unbroken hydatid cysts and pieces of membrane came away. The canula was left in ; the next day tubing replaced the canula, and the cavity was washed out with a solution f)f sulphurous acid ; he, however, shortly afterwards developed peritonitis. Death. 80 days. There was a fistula in 9th interspace leading to a ' nearly empty hydatid cyst in right lobe of liver. There were ab- scesses elsewhere in liver. A quantity of semi - inspissated ims in right pleura. Com- pression of lung with lines of interlobular I pneumonia. Death. 31 days. Deep jaundice ; listulous opening in right hy- pochondriurn ; liver adherent to parietes. Abscess beneath right lobe, and numerous small cysts full of pus and shreds of mem- brane in the left lobe. Other small cysts scat- tered in liver. Gall- bladder and main duct distended with clear fluid. Kidneys granu- lar and bile-stained.