346 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. mode of action of this operation l)e true or not, the fact is now well estab- lished, that through its instrumentality patients experience prompt relief from pain, and that the disease is rapidly brought under control, and in due time cured. If a collection of pus is reached, in the course of the operation, we should search carefully for loose fragments of bone, and should remove them with the forceps, if any be found. Then, before di'essing the outer wound, we should wash out the channel in the bone, or the antrum, as the case may be, with a five-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid. In carrying out this proce- dure, it is well to employ a nozzle or tube that is smaller than the artificial channel, so as to allow room for the return current to find a free outlet by the side of the instrument. At first no attemjjt should be made to approxi- mate the widely separated edges of the wound. The more open the outer wound, the more easily shall we be able, at the daily dressing, to cleanse the deeper cavities. As an outside dressing we may apply, first, a suitable patch of lint well smeared with carbolated vaseline. Then outside of this, during the first twenty-four hours, flaxseed-meal poultices should be applied at short intervals of time. After the first day, the channel in the bone, or the antrum, as the case may be, should be thoroughly washed out once a day with either a warm, saturated solution of boracic acid, or a weak (two-per-cent.) solution of carbolic acid. When the outer wound so far heals up that the nozzle of the douche can no longer be introduced into the opening in the bone without causing the patient considerable pain, this part of the treatment may be omitted. I have known the outer wound to close permanently as early as on the tenth day after the operation. Then again, I have known it to remain unclosed for a period of several months. Chronic Ulcerative Inflammation of the Mastoid Antrum.—From this class of mastoid affections, come probably the greater number of fatal cases of ear disease. Through a period of months or, more commonly, of years, the patient is affected with a chronic discharge from the ear. The underlying disease begins as a simple purulent inflammation of the middle ear, and then, in the course of time, usually through the instrumentality of an obstructed outlet, the solid elements of the discharge'—pus-cells, epithe- lium, detritus, cholestearin-crystals, etc.—begin to accumulate in the antrum. AVhile these changes are taking place, the mastoid cells are being steadily reduced in size by a chronic osteitis, and, by the time that the accumulating solid matters have filled the antrum, the mastoid process will be found to have reached the condition of complete sclerosis. Ulceration of the walls of the antrum, in whatever direction the least resistance is met with, follows surely upon the formation of one of these foul-smelling masses of cheesy material in that cavity. The directions in which the resistance is least are, first, upward toward the brain, and next, backward toward the lateral sinus. In one or both of these directions, therefore, a destructive carious process may be ex- pected to take place, if a vent be not established by artificial means suffi- ciently early to prevent such an issue. In this variety of mastoid disease, pain, at times severe, is the most promi- nent symptom. While in the previously described variety external evidences of the underlying mastoid disease are rarely wanting, in this form of the dis- ease they are rarely present, and then only when the disease is far advanced. On the other hand, one can usually find unmistakable evidence that the outlet through which the pus has been escaping from the middle ear into the audi- tory canal, is too narrow to permit the discharge to escape freely from the more deeply situated cavities. The persistence of pain, therefore, under such circumstances, becomes a very important indication—in fact, often the only