643 WOUNDS OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. piece of gauze, or a woven scarf, to raise the temperature of the inspired air and prevent the access of flies. This dressing may be carbolized. The apartment should be kept at a warm temperature, and the atmosphere moist, just as after ordinary tracheotomy. Insane patients and determined suicides require close watching, to see that the dressings remain undisturbed. The inflammatory action following the injury is to be treated on ordinary antiphlogistic principles, locally and constitutionally ; by rest, cold, anodyne fomentations, and leeches, if necessary, and by febrifuge and anodyne mix- tures. ■ If cedema of tlie larynx or other obstruction to respiration occur at the seat of injury, the trachea should be opened at a lower point, and a tube introduced. A pi’ecautionary, prophylactic tracheotomy will have anticipated this contingency. Emphysema of the neck may require punctures or incisions through the integument; but if the edges of the wound he not yet adherent, the air can often be expelled by systematic manipulation towards the oriflce. Shovdd this he unsuccessful, the external wmund should he enlarged, and the process repeated. Low tracheotomy is sometimes required under similar conditions to prevent sutfocation; and quite a long tube, or a section of rul)l)er tubing, may he necessary for a few days to insure access of air into the trachea. Exuberant granulations should he cauterized with solid nitrate of silver. Cough is to be repressed l)y anodynes. Xourishment can bo given by the mouth if there be no wound of the pha- rynx or oesophagus, and can usually he well taken even though tlie e}iiglottis have been severed. If those structures have been wounded, it is best to insert a soft rubber catheter through the larger nasal passage into the oesophagus, where it may he maintained undisturbed for several days. Most surgeons prefer that the tube should be inserted through the mouth. Liquid nourish- ment can be passed tln-ough the catheter at stated periods by means of a syphon- tube or funnel, the external orifice being, in the intervals, secured 1>y a ligature. Food may likewise Ije administered by enema ; and medicine, if necessary, by either method, or by hypodermic injection. Antiseptic sprays allowed to play upon the wound at stated intervals tend to keep the granulations clean and healthy. The secretions escaqiing from the wound sliould be caught upon a disinfected sponge or mop as fast as tliey are expelled, to prevent them from being sucked back by the inspiratory current. The administration of opium is indicated to restrain hypersecretion and to repress cough, but caution is requisite to avoid obtuiuling sensilnlity to such an extent as to favor the qiassage of fluids into the air-tube» Should the wound fail to unite in its entire extent, the fistulous opening which remains can sometimes be closed l)y systematic cauterization, nitric acid and nitrate of mercury being the most efficient agents. In case of tailure by this plan, a plastic operation may succeed. T]-ansplantation of cartilage from the ear of the rabbit might be tried under tliese circumstances. A pad, secured by a bandage, is sometimes worn over the opening, so that voice and articulation can be rendered effective. Stenotic constrictions can sometimes be overcome by systematic dilatation. Successes have been reported by Liston and others. In many instances, per- haps in most, a tracheotomy tube becomes a permanent necessity. It is sometimes practicable to overcome the stenosis by dilatation years after immediate treatment has been discontinued. In a case placed under my care by Prof. Joseph I’ancoast, of Philadelphia, in 1866, this was satisfacto- rily accomplished by the frequent passage of large, perforated, hard catheters