INJURIES OF TOE BEAD. 22 white macerated appearance, and evidently was not a recently detached piece of human boned Depressed fractures in the region of the frontal sinuses may only involve the outer table. The error has been made of mistaking an exudation of inspissated mucus through a break of the anterior Avail of the sinus, for an extrusion of cerebral matter. In these fractures the skin covering the frag- ments may become emphj'sematous, especially if the patient bloAv his nose violently. When emphysema is detected, it plainly indicates the presence of a fracture which at least involves the anterior wall of the frontal sinus. Prognosis.—This being almost entirely dependent upon the concomitant cerebral lesions and their sequelae, is uncertain. Linear fractures, with neither depression nor symptoms of compression, usually do well, especially Avhen they are simple. Sometimes, however, such cases are folloAved by suppuration betAveeu the bone and dura mater, though compound fissured fractures of the skull are more apt to be thus complicated. In any event such an occurrence is I’are. The course pursued by the case is then similar to that of one of contusion of the skull, under which heading the reader will find the subject fully treated otd The region of the vault att'ected also affords grounds for prognosis. Thus injuries of the anterior half of the parietal bone are apt to be followed by serious motor disturbances. Depressed fractures, simple or compound, arc grave in projiortion to the accompanying cerebral symptoms, and Avhen these are absent throughout the course of the case, to the form of the injury. When the depression is slight, smooth, and uniform, the much dreaded secondary results, such as epilepsy and so forth, are far less liable to occur than A\dien the displaced bone is broken into many irreg- ular fragments, Avhich ])ress deeply into, or even i)enetrate, the brain. These remarks are equally aiiplicable in regard to the chances of encephalitis, although of course no absolute rule can here be laid down, since there may be severe contusion or laceration of the brain with but little primary indi- cation of such an accident, and since with but slight injury to the outer table, the inner table may be much comminuted. Punctured fractures are exceedingly dangerous, and in most cases, Avhen unrelieved by o])eration, prove rapidly fatal. In this class I would include all fractures Avhich consist of a limited injury of the outer table Avith extensive shattering of the inner, such as those produced by the corner of a brick, a sword-cut, bloAvs Avith hammers, pokers, or hatchets. Although a com])Ound fracture presents some features of gravity that a simple one does not, yet the free drainage, preventing accumulation of in- fiammatory exudates, and the more probable circumscription both of bone and of brain injuiy, in many cases do aAvay Avith much of the apparent difference, and Avith modern antiseptic precautions the prognosis is materially improved. One of the chief additional risks, jjntting aside pyeemia, is from hernia cerebri folloAving primary laceration or sloughing of the dura mater. The increased chances of encepbalitis from the admission of air, are much lessened by antiseptic precautions, yet they undoubtedly exist. Finally, let me again reiterate that the one great danger to be apprehended is encepha- litis,"^aud that, Avere it not for this, patients Avith fractures of the cranial A^ault Avould convalesce almost as certainly as those Avith fractures elsewhere. But a clear distinction must be draAvn betAveen the encephalitis necessarily resulting from the primary injury, Avhich is unavoidable, and the encephalitis resulting from the pressure upon, and irritation of, the intracranial contents by fragments of bone, Avhich the normal, pulsatory movements of the brain render remarkably efiicient as constant sources ot irritation. 1 Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 582. * See page 8, supra.