MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD, 150 1. Gelatiniform atrophy is very rare, and is met with only in very young infants, so that M. Parrot suggests that it may commence during intra-uterine life. The bones affected waste and assume a somewhat gelatinous aspect, being soft and w^atery; the surface of the affected portions looks eroded when the specimen is fresh. The change always commences at the surface, beneath the periosteum, and is very seldom of any depth, although M. Parrot men- tions a case in which it produced perforation. It may he circumscribed or diffuse, and may involve any or all of the cranial liones. 2. Craniotahcs appears mainly about the lamhdoid suture, affecting the upper part of the occipital hone and the posterior border of the parietal hones. It consists of a great thinning of the hone, which thinning is mainly at the expense of the inner surface, so that when holes are formed, they cannot well be felt in the fresh specimen by passing the linger very lightly over the external surface of the hone. The thinned l)one yields to the linger like parchment, and this parchment condition has been observed in the lower part of the occipital bone, and also in the scpiamous hone. The holes are gene- rally small, about the size of a bean, and are filled in by a thin membrane. These changes occur mainly from the third to the sixth month, and occupy a period somewhat antecedent to that of the osteophytes. 3. The osteophytic formations consist of certain local thickenings of the skull. These appear as lens-shaped elevations oD the exterior of the l)one, and may increase considerably in size. Tlieir most constant position is about the anterior fontanelle. Here bosses form on the four hones that form the fontanelle, and give rise to a remarkable elevation, traversed by depressions arranged in a crucial manner, and marking the situations of the coronal, sagittal, and interfrontal sutures at the point where tliese sutures meet. The anterior fontanelle, therefore, appears to be at the bottom of a hollow formed by the heaping u}i of the adjacent bones. Sometimes only two bosses exist instead of four. These changes appear first on the frontal hones, and then on the parietals; the occipital hone may also he affected, hut not i)rimarily. The elevations are composed of a very porous hone formation, and are of a red, violet, or maroon color; they involve the exterior of the skull only, the cor- responding part of the inner table being unaltered. The thickening tends to extend from the fontanelle along the sutures first, and ultimately over the general sui'face of the bones. The centres of ossification are the points last attacked, so that the frontal and parietal eminences are very seldom the seat of these hone thickenings. By an extension of the enlargement, the Avhole skull may become much thickened, the sutures obliterated, and the develop- ment of the brain considerably hampered. These osteophytes appear to be foriped from the deeper layer of the periosteum, and present the structure of very imperfect bone. Dr. Barlow considers them to be due to a hyperos- tosis depending upon altered nutrition, and not to be of the nature of periostitis. They appear in older children than those affected with ati'ophy, so that the two conditions never coexist. Craniotabes and osteophytic growth are, however, often met with on the same skull, but on quite opposite parts, the osteophytes being on that part of the skull which is most elevated in dorsal decubitus, the craniotabes on those parts which are the most dependent. It is usual, therefore, to ascribe the latter condition to pressure. Taken as a whole, all these changes appear early, certainly within the first two years of life, and usually well within the first year. Diagnosis.—The condition of gelatiniform atrophy cannot be diagnosed during life. (Parrot.) Craniotabes is easily recognized by the parchment-like reaction of the bone under pressure, and by the presence of the holes. The latter are, liowever, much less easily recognized than is the former condition. The osteophytic condition can be recognized during life, if the enlargement