INJURIES OF THE EYEBALL. 209 and cornea, tlirongh the long and short ciliaiy nerves, would perhaps account for the great frec|uency of sympathetic affection after injuries and diseases of those structures, especially of the ciliary region and the iris. The fellow feeling existing between the eyes is vividly manifested, in all acute and painful atfections of one eye, by the tenderness to light, spasm of the lids, weeping, and ready fatigue of the other. If this is not identical with, it is certainly very similar to, the ‘■'•sympathetic irritation'” which is so, often the precursor of sympathetic ophthalmia. It is true that the early and intense suffering of one eye with the other, in the beginning of acute atfec- tions, whether of traumatic or idiopathic origin, generally subsides in a few days, while the sympathetic irritation that foi’el)odes danger to the sound eye generally does not come on for some weeks or months ; still, the persist- ence of the suffering of the early stage for weeks or longer, without abate- ment, certainly indicates quite as much danger of sympathetic loss of the sound eye. While, in either case, the irritation and functional iveakness may continue for years without issuing in destructive inflammation, it is wise to to act on the assumption tliat such danger is ever imminent. While it is undoubtedly true that neuro-retinitis may extend from the injured to the well eye, following the optic nerve through the chiasm—and that irido-cy- clitis, through the ciliary nerves, often gives rise to inllammation of the same parts in the sound eye—-it is certain that 0])tic-neuritis in one eye can only excite the same disease in the other, and not cyclitis; and vice versa. Wliere the two diseases are found together in the otfending eye, they may likewise be associated in the other, sympathetically. When tlie known conditions of danger exist, there are certain premonitory symptoms, which sometimes result in sympathetic ophthalmia in a few days, and at other times not for iveeks or even months. This warning irritation is of immense practical importance. If it is recognized, and the otfending eye promptly removed, l)eforo actual sympa- thetic inflammation of any kind has been set up in the fellow eye, the patient is saved from blindness. The exceptions to this rule are extremely rare. In my own large experience I do not recall a single one. What then are these alarming symptoms ? One of the most common, is a certain vague smokiness before the eye, with difficulty in focusing small ol jects. If the patient strives to read fine print, it is difficult, and soon becomes painful. The pupil is usually sluggish, rather dilated, and the patient often speaks of a waver- ing mist before him, like the glimmerings of a heated atmosphere. These disturbances are often periodical, and perhaps worse when the diseased eye is suffering paroxysms of pain. Tested in the usual, accurate way, the vision is below tlie normal. Sometimes flashes of light, changing colors, and photopsia of various kinds and degrees, torment the patient. Rarely there are extreme intolerance to light and harassing blepharospasm. These symp- toms of retinal irritation are occasionally attended by c<aicentric narrowing of the field of vision, as well as by marked dimness of direct vision. With these symptoms, there may be the faintest blush of redness in the ciliary region, but often there is none at all. Much of the indis})Osition to fix on and focus small objects, is due to the pain produced in the injured eye by etforts of accommodation. Should these warnings come on while the injured or diseased eye is subject to ]iaroxysms of more or less severe pain, or if, in the absence of sjiontaneous pain, there should be found a tender spot over the ciliary region, danger is impending. This tender point in the useless eye is characteristic of cyclitis, and sometimes a corres})onding one.is found in tlie threatened organ. ISTcarly always above, it may lie detected liy pressure with the finger or a probe through the upper lid. The moment the sensitive place is reached, the patient winces. In cases of quiescent atrophy of the VOL. V.—14