1007 ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. and external parietes, nor of hemorrhage from cutting pretty deeply into the substance of the organ, unless the operator he so ignorant and rash as to plunge his trocar into the large vessels situated near to the backbone. Surely the earlier the abscess is punctured, the better the condition of the liver and of the patient’s constitution to institute the desirable process of adhesive inflammation and cicatrization, and the less degree of collapse and recession of the viscus there is likely to be from the parts naturally in apposition to it.”^ Dr. Murray further was disposed to believe that puncturing the liver in hyperiemia, hypertrophy, or inllammatory enlargement, so that blood should be abstracted from it (as the natives of India do in cases of enlarged spleen) would not only be perfectly safe, hut would be singularly advanta- geous. Dr. Murray opened many hepatic abscesses, where no adhesions existed between the liver and the parietes, and in a good many instances the patients recovered, and in none did any matter escape into the peritoneal cavity after the operation. The escape of matter seems to he prevented by the constant state of apposition of the viscera. (Thomson.) Daron Larrey thought very highly of the practice of opening hepatic abscesses, and speaks of having had from twelve to tifteen successful cases. Dr. James Clark, of Dominica, had eight successful cases out of thirteen. Dr. Horner,^ of Philadelphia, about the same time as Dr. Murray wrote, related a case of hepatic abscess in which tapi)ing had been performed before adhesion to the side had occurred, in the following manner: “An incision was first made horizontally, in a line with the anterior end of the eighth rib on the right side, a little in front of its cartilage, and through the side of the abdomen, which brought the liver into view; the latter was seen to rise and fall with tlie diaphragm in respiration; moreover, a knife handle was introduced between the surface of the liver and of the contiguous i»arts of the abdomen, thus making clear the want of adhesion. In this dilemma, I determined to stitch the liver to the side, which was accompanied by a large crooked needle, armed with a ligature of kid-skin of bulk sufficient to till up the hole made by the needle. One stitch was made in this way, parallel with the upper margin of the incision, at the distance of four lines from it, and another in the same manner below. The liver being thus fixed closely to the side, a trocar and canula were plunged into the abscess, and five gills of purulent matter were immediately discharged, to the great relief of the patient; the matter continued to flow during the night, so that three or four more gills were discharged. The operation being ended, a bandage was put around the abdomen, so as to keep its viscera as still as possible. The canula was left in for fifty-foui’ hours, and then a piece of a flexible catheter was substituted, the abscess discharging all this time small f[uantities of pus and serum mixed.” Adhesion took place and no peritonitis followed, but death from exhaustion occurred after some days. The modern method of opening these abscesses, and cystic tumors, and dis- tensions within the abdomen, is practically the same as Dr. Horner’s, the only difierences being in matters of detail, such as the character of the sutures, the exact lines of incision, and whether the fluid should be evacuated before or after the liver, or cyst-wall, is stitched to the abdominal parietes. II. Biliary Abscess.—The gall-bladder may be the seat of suppuration, or an abscess may form at any ]>art of the C3"stic, hepatic, or common bile-duct. These abscesses are generally the result of ol)struction to the free passage of bile from simple or cancerous stricture of the duct, from Inliaiy calculi, or from cancer or some f)ther growth })ressing upon the ducts. * Sue Thoiutfun, op. oit., p. 2'62,. * Am. .Jourii. of Med. Sciences, old series, vol. xiv. p. 87.