INJURIES OF THE EYEBALL. 199 eiiecl on the cornea, in plain view, for months, and the irritation aggravated hy severe local astringents. I once found a dry stramonium seed in the upper cul-de-sac of the conjunctiva; it had been in the eye some thirty-six hours, and the pupil was widely dilated. Small particles of steel, stone, powder, and other hard substances, driven not by the wind but by mechani- cal forces, may not merely lodge on the eye or under the lids, but be more or less deeply imbedded. There is, then, generally, more reaction, pain, and traumatic intlammation, both betore and after removal. If the foreign body be on, or imbedded in, the cornea, pbotopbobia, spasm of the lids, and weeping, may seriously embarrass the examination and necessary treatment. The removal of foreign bodies from the cornea is not always easy, especially when they are metallic, and have remained several days. Undergoing chemical changes, the oxidized substance incorporates itself with the corneal tissues, producing a dirty-rust ring. This will remain after the little mass of metal has been removed. By some persistence this ring can be detached. It is essentially foreign. A sharp spud, or a sort of gouge (Fig. 858), is better for removing particles from the cornea than a needle, and less dangerous in inexperienced bands. An ope- rating chair or lounge may be used to seat the patient, or to lay him comfortably down. Standing behind or beside the patient, as may be most convenient, the lids are separated by the left band, and the spud held in the right. In bolding the eyelids securely open, with the thumb and index huger, care must be taken Fig. 858. Spud for removing foreign bodies from the cornea. The patient is urged to bold the eye still in a given not to evert them, direction. The hrst touch of the cornea will make him wince from apprehension, but be will soon learn to control the eye. A good light and a favorable position for seeing the foreign body are indispensable. Then supporting the ball, with the lids well apart, the surgeon ])crse- Fig. 859. veres till be has completely removed the foreign body, with its stain, if such exist, doing as little damage to the cornea as i )Ossible. If the riarticle be more decidy „ . inibedded, the spud may not succeed, and a broad eigu bodies from the cornea, needle (Fig. 859) will serve best. If tlie }»atient cannot control bis eye, a speculum (Fig. 860), hxation forceps (Fig. 861), and even ether, may be used. In rare instances a scale of metal, piece of cap, or glass. Fig. 8(30. Fig. 861. Liebreich’s spring-stop speculum for Fixation forceps, separating the eyelids. may be driven so deep as to be ready to fall into the aqueous chamber. The least touch of the needle might push in the foreign body, when it would