495 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND FAUCES. The imbibition of strong mineral acid or of strong carbolic acid, is usually immediately fatal from injury to the stomach, but in cases in Avbicb the liuid has been ejected, the mucous membrane of the mouth will be charred, and deep sloughing will ensue. Stomatitis, or inflammation of the mouth, is a disease of childhood, except when it is the result of the action of mercury upon the system. In badly fed and ill-nourished children, it is common to meet with an inflammatory condition of the mouth {stomatitis follicularis), coupled with small vesicles rapidly developing into ulcers. Added to this is commonly found the condi- tion known as “ thrush,” due to the development of a grayish-white pellicle containing the oidiiaii albicans^ a parasitic fungus. A more important form of the disease is the stomatitis gangrenosa, Avhich if unchecked may develop into the formidable cancruvi oris. Beginning usually in the gum, close to the necks of the teeth, the disease appears as a line of unhealthy ulceration, Avliich rapidly extends along the neighboring gum, and into the sulcus of mucous membrane between tlie teeth and the cheek. Owing to the destruction of the gums and the extension of inflam- mation into the sockets of the teeth, these soon become loosened, and drop out; there is a profuse, purulent, oftensive discharge, by sivalloAving Avhieli the patient is poisoned, besides being worn out by the irritation and want of food. The slightest cases, whether of simple or gangrenous stomatitis, are best treated by attention to feeding, and especially to hygiene; and locally by the use of the solid nitrate of silver, and the constant application of the glycerine of carbolic acid, combined with the internal administration of chlorate, of potassium, which seems to be almost a specific remedy in these cases. The more severe cases of gangrenous stomatitis must be arrested by the applica- tion of strong nitric acid or the actual cautery—by preference Bacpielin’s thermo-cautero —wliile tlie i)atient is under the influence of chloroform. Cancrum oris'- is thought by some authors to be a separate disease, and to originate in the cheek, which rapidly becomes gangrenous and sloughs away, causing a hideous deformity, and rapidly proving fatal in the majority of cases. The treatment is the same as for the more severe forms of gangrenous stomatitis, but the disease is apt to leave terrible deformity in cases which recover, and to lead to permanent closure of tlie jaws by cicatrice Tonsillitis, or acute inflammation of the tonsils, commonly results from exposure to cold in the case of delicate young people who have susceptilfle throats. Towards evenhig the tliroat feels swollen and painful, and both speech and deglutition become difficult, the voice having a })eculiar,thick tone, which is very cliaracteristic. On inspection, the fauces Avill be seen deeply injected, and the tonsils swollen and bulging both towards the median lino and behind the anterior pillars of the fauces. There is great tenderness in the submaxillary region and behind the jaw, and occasionally acute pain in the ear, from extension of inflammation along tlie Eustachian tube. Tlierc is, besides, considerable fever, the temperature rising thi-ee or four degrees, and the tongue being coated with a white fur; but the pulse, thougli rapid, has little force, and is very compressible. In from twelve to twenty-four hours, and either with or without a rigor, matter forms in one or, seldom, both ton- sils ; and if not relieved gives rise to great distress from the embarrassment caused to the breathing, the patient sitting up in bed and constantly hawking Soe Vol. II. page 308. 2 Vide infra.