INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TUE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. 458 bimiing licat and pain, and the other inflammatory symptoms, are promptly relieved by the application of a strong solution of bicarbonate of sodium. Severe inflammatory swellings of the face are also occasioned by contact with poison-ivy. Among the remedies which havje been highly recommended for the relief of these symptoms are saturated solutiofts of sulphite and hypo- sulphite of sodium; liquor sodee chlorinatee of full strength, or diluted Avith from three to six parts of water; and bromine dissolved in olive oil, gtt. x- XX to f5j.^ Facial Paralysis. The facial nerve may he paralyzed in consequence of a wound dividing its trunk, or from pressure in any part of its course, within or without the cranium. Paralysis may result from exposure to a draft of cold air, and from other causes, some of which are quite obscure. The face is drawn towards the opposite side, the mouth cannot be perfectly closed, the eyelids of the attected side remain widely open, and the eyeball is exposed to injury. When the paralysis is the result of division of the nerve, the divided ends may be united % suture. When it occurs from other causes, benefit may sometimes be derived from the use of electricity, and from the administration of strychnia, either by the mouth or hypodermically. Salivary Fistula. This may be the result of wounds, burns, or sloughing or phagedenic ulceration, involving the duct of Steuo. The outflow of saliva is an occasion of much annoyance to the patient, and it sometimes taxes the ingenuity of the surgeon to efl'ect a cure. The main indication for treatment is to establish a free communication between the duct and the interior of the buccal cavity, and to close the external orifice of the fistula. This object may sometimes be accomplished by introducing a seton or tent through the fistula into the cavity of the mouth, and wearing it until a sufficiently large internal orifice has Ijecome established, and then closing the external orifice, either b}^ the application of the actual cautery or by paring its edges and drawing them together with sutures. In obstinate cases, after establishing the internal opening, the external orifice may be closed by a plastic operation. Desault gives minute directions for the cure of salivary fistula by seton.^ In cases of unusual difficulty, the fistulous orifice, Avith the portion of the duct communicating with it, may be dissected from the surrounding parts and introverted into the cavity of the mouth, Avhere it may be fixed with silver Avire sutures. Operations of this kind have been performed by Lano-enbeck, Van Buren, J. P. Wood, and Erskine Mason.® Dr. II. II. Smith, in his Avork on Operative Surgery, describes an operation devised by the late Dr. Horner, Avho punched a hole through the cheek, making a free opening into the buccal cavity, and then closed the external Avound. Rodolfi succeeded in closing a salivary fistula by painting the surface Avith collodion.^ I See Med. Record, July 12, 1879, p. 46 ; Aug. 2, p. 117; Sept. 20, p. 284; Apr. 20, 1878, p. 320; and July 1, 1873, p. 313. ‘-i (Euvres Chirurgicales de Desault, par Bichat, tome ii. p. 221. » See Med. Record, Aug. 7, 1880, p. 163. * Gslzz. Med. Ital. Lombard., t. iii. 1854.