3G6 diseases and injuries of the nose and its accessory sinuses. Robinson, Med. Record, July 15, 1874. longitudinal furrows and ridges—tlie adenoid tissue of the vault, or pharyn- geal tonsil of Luschka. As this tumefaction—marked in some cases, absent in others; frequent in children, rare in adults under normal conditions— merges gradually into the smooth surface of the iiosterior pharyngeal wall, it can no longer he traced; the mucous membrane of the latter, deep-red, smooth—with the exception of an occasional follicle—and shining, sup- plants it. Fig. 919. Instruments for Treating the Affections of tee ISTasal Cavities.—The instruments emplojmd foi' the preliminary cleansing of the nasal passages being, in many of their diseases, identical with those required for their sub- sequent medication, their general consideration at this point will be condu- cive to both brevity and clearness. Instruments and Methods of Cleansing.—The best known apjiai-atus, cer- tainly the one most widely used to-day, is the so-called nasal douche of Weber and Thudichum, either in its original form or in one of its many modifications. AVithout enter- ing into a discussion of its possible merits and po.s- itive disadvantages,’ and while questioning, upon the basis of a practical, clinical experience, the reality of the dangers to the middle ear from its use, which have been so vividly pictured by Moos, Roosa, Ivnapp, and otliers, I must record my convic- tion that it is an inefficient instrument for the pur- pose for Avhich it was designed, inasmuch as it does not thoroughly wash or cleanse the nasal cavities even when cai'efully used. This assertion is readily sub- tantiated by observation, and I may even add that its very general employment by the laity, unguided, too often, by pi-ofessional advice, is productive of much harm ; that even a])parent, tem])orary good effects ultimately fail; and that the use of strong saline solutions in large quantity, and passed through the narcs under high pressure in a divided or in- terrupted jet or stream, is not unfrequently an effi- cient factor in the propagation, if not in the causa- G- tiemann. a ca Nasal douclie. Fig. 917. Fig. 918. The rhinoscopic image. Vault of the pharynx as seen by posterior rhinoscopy.