232 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. carefully with a probe or the probe-eiul of a AVeber’s stricture knife, and any gathering arpieous is allowed to escape. The eye should then be bandaged wdth carbolized or borated cotton, and opened once or twice a day for inspec- tion, for the carbolic application if needed, and for the tapping of the chamber. Carbolic acid used in the same way, before or after simple paracentesis, re- peated cleansing, continued use of cold watei’, atropine and boracic acid solu- tions, with free incision of the outer commissure to relieve pressure upon the ball, combined with the proper treatment of the purulent conjunctivitis, are the best means of saving the cornea in that dreadful disease. In the management of phlyctenular keratitis, attacking as it always does delicate, scrofulous children, great importance attaches to the hygienic condi- tions of the patient. The child must have good nutritious food at regular intervals, and no cramming with trash between meals. Its body must be bathed once a day with tepid water, and the skin thoroughly rubbed. It must be dragged from its burrow in the dark, and carried forcibly out in the fresh air, for an hour or two twice a day. It must not be allowed to bury its face and heat up its eyes, and the room is to be only moderately darkened and is to be kept well ventilated. It will add greatly to the child’s comfort and relieve its photophobia, to bathe its face thoroughly several times a day with very bold water. Immersing the face in a basin of iced water several times in succession, has a wonderful influence in controlling the spasm of the lids and enabling the child to open its eyes in the light. Any eczematous patches of the lids and nose, and Assures at the outer commissure of the lids, must be cleansed with soap and water, dried thoroughly, and freely brushed with a twenty-grain solution of nitrate of silver once a day till cured. In- wardly, cpiinia, two grains three times a day, for a child five years old, has a marked effect in controlling the photophobia. It may be kept up several weeks, if necessary, and followed by a long course of small doses of iron, the syrup of the iodide being one of the best preparations. Locally, atropine may be freely used from the start, and kept up for several wmeks, or till the child opens its eyes freely in the light. Combined wfltli it, or separately, a solution of boracic acid is beneficial. Ho astringents of any kind must be used in the acute stages. In a child from five to ten years old, a solution of two grains of sulphate atropia in an ounce of water, must be freely dropped into the eye three or four times a day, taking gi’eat pains to forcibly open the lids and get it in thoroughly. Care must b^e taken in the struggle to do this, not to drop or let the wash run into the mouth. The best way is to lay the child backwards, across the nurse’s lap, and to take its head betw'een the surgeon’s knees, face upwards. Then pull the lids well open, and apply the wash freely, When the photophobia is relieved, a weaker solution may be used, and less often, till it is finally omitted. The greater the intolerance of light, the more urgent the use of atropia, and the less danger of any poisonous effects. Where the phlyctenular process persists, and perliaps keeps pushing forward in the form of a band, more towards the centre of the cornea, in spite of this treat- ment, I again resort to the local use of carbolic acid. The offending patch or band in the cornea, is usually seen covered with a dirty-grayish, neci’otic tissue. Holding the child’s head firmly between the knees, as before, and separating the lids well, even using an elevator so as to expose the cornea fully, the spud may be used to freely scrape otfthis sloughing epithelial tissue, and even to bore out the phlyctenula. Then with the same spud, or a small probe, the acid is applied, limiting tliis carefully to the necrotic portion, turning it whitish, and then washing it with a few drops of cold water. This is done once a day, con- tinuing the local use of the atropine. It is wonderful how quickly the ex- treme symptoms in such cases, may be thus ovei’come. The necrotic tissue, with too little life to live and too much to die, in the troublesome keratitis