TBLANGEIECTASIS OP THE LIPS. 471 by a semi-circular, a semi-elliptical, or a quadrangular incision, and the chasm thus produced may be closed by an appropriate cheiloplastic operation. When epithelioma Of the lip is removed at a very eai’ly period, there is good reason to hope for a radical cure, or, at least, for a long reprieve. But if the operation be delayed until the lymphatic system has become involved, and till the general health has begun to suffer from cancerous cacliexia, little or no benefit is to be expected from the excision of the morbid growth. Telangeiectasis of the Lips. This is usually a congenital affection. It may aft'ect the vessels of the skin or mucous membrane alone, or those of tlie subjacent cellular tissue, or both tissues may be involved. When the disease is of very limited extent it may be excised, and the edges of the wound may be united by sutures. When it is more extensive, it may be treated liy inserting cauterizing needles, at a dull-red heat, into the tumor at a number of points. When the morbid growth is quite prominent, without a very wide base, it may be treated with two pins traversing its base and crossing at right angles, and a strong ligature tied around the base of the tumor under the pins, with sufticient force to arrest the circulation and to destroy the vitality of the included parts. After the separation of the slough the sore will heal, and the cicatrix will not much disfigure the [>atient. Fig. 942 shows the pins in situ, traversing the base of the tumor, and the ligature ready to be tied. It will sometimes be advantageous to apply the ligature around the base of the tumor subcutaneously, as represented in Fig. 943. A curved Fig. 942. Telangeiectasis of lip strangulated with pins and ligature. Fig. 943. B Application of subcutaneous ligature. needle armed with a strong ligature is passed through the integument at the point A, on one side of the tumor, and is carried beneath the skin around Iialf the circumference of the tumor to the point B, on the opposite side. It is then re-inserted at the point B, and carried from B to A around the other half of the circumference, and thus the two ends of the thread at A may be tied so as to strangulate the tumor sulicutaneously. When the tumor is fiat and has a broad base, it may be treated by passing needles armed with double ligatures through its base, at a number of points.