nil OTHER OPERATIONS ON THE STOMACH. died the same evening, and cancerous glands were found near the head of the pancreas, and in the lesser omentum. The fi-equency with which adhesions will be met with may be inferred from Gussenbauer and Winiwarter’s statistics. These show that out of 542 cancers of the pylorus observed at the Pathological Institute of Vienna, 370 had adhesions. The mortality of pylorectomy or partial gastrectomy^ has been very high. Out of 29 cases, the oi)eration has been performed in 27 for tumor of a malignant nature, and has been fatal in 23 of these. In two cases (Ileuck’s, of Heidelberg, and Van Ivleef’s, of ^Maastricht), the operation has been done for gastric ulcer of a non-malignant type; and in hotlj instances Avith perfect success and permanent recovery. Thus 6 out of 29 patients liave recovered from the operation. Of the 4 Avith malignant disease, 2 (WolHer’s and Czerny’s) Avere knoAvn to he alive and well, without any symptoms of recurrence, many months (6 and 10 respectively) after the operation ; one (Bilh’oth's first patient) died four months after the operation, Avith cancerous disease of the peritoneum and retro-peri- toneal lymphatic glands. Of the 23 fatal cases, none lived longer than eight days, and in most death resulted from the oiieration Avithin a very feAv hours. [Of 32 eases to Avhicli the editor has references, 11 are said to have ended in I'ecovery.] With tliese results before him, I must leave the reader to form his oavu opinion as to the justifiability of the operation for malignant disease. Por my OAvn part, given a suitable case in a patient not too far Avorn out l)y his malady, I should feel justified in ofi'ering him the chance ot prolongation of life Avhich tlie operation might afibrd, and in performing the operation, if desired, after fairly ac(piainting the patient or his friends of its risks; Init Avith my present knoAvlcdge I should not feel justified in advising the opera- tion. In simple stricture of the pylorus, if incurable dilatation, Avith obstruc- tion, exists, the operation seems to me to be not only justifiable but advisable. Otjier (Jperations on the Stomach. Gastro-enterostomy is an o[)cration Avhich has been [)roposed for those cases of cancer of the [lylorus in Avhich excision is not possible. It Avas })ei'- formed for the first time by Dr. Anton Wblfier, in Vienna, and has since been repeated by Uillrotb. This mode of treatment ap})cars to have lieen devised on the spur of the moment, after an exploratory incision had been made into the abdomen of a man Avho Avas sutfei’ing from cancer of the pylorus, and in Avliorn the operation for removal of the tumor proved to lie impossible.' It consisted in makins: an incision into the stomach near the middle of the great curvature, and a similar cut into a coil of small intestine—[irobably as near as possible to the commencement of the jejunum—and carefully scAving to one another the margins of the tAvo o[)cnings thus formed. The olijcct of the operation Avas thus tAvofold—in the first place to alloAA^ the materials SAval- loAved to pass into the intestine; and in the second place, to prevent any ob- struction to the escape of the biliary and yiancreatic secretions. Strict antiseptic precautions “Avith the exception of the use of the sjiray” Avere observed during the operation, and not only did healing take jilace Avithout any fever and by first intention, but the }>afient experienced A'eiy marked relief, and at the time of the report had survived the operation nearlj' four weeks. Not only had he survived, but a marked improvement had taken place in his symptoms ; the vomiting had stopped, and he had lieen able to take increasing (piantities, first of fluid, and aftenvards of solid food, lie ' OeiitraHihitt fih- CTiinirgiA.', 12 Nov. 1881.