NOX-PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 897 posture, the gentle support of bandages, and, if necessary, the internal and local use of anodynes, are to be reconmjended. Tonics and stimulants will generally be recpiired, and especially if the sloughing is extensive or the suppuration profuse. Gunshot wounds are of the nature of contused and lacerated wmunds, the contusion being severe and extending to the surrounding tissues, as w’ell as along the track of the missile. Hence it is that, in these cases, death often results from peritonitis, or from shock. Shock is occasionally very intense, even when the -wound is comparatively superficial. Symptoms.—Gunshot wounds generally present a blackish coloration at the edges of the aperture of entrance, and the surrounding parts are I’ed or purple at first, and ^^ellowish-brown or violet after a day or two. They difier widely according to the form and size of the projectile, its degree of velocity, and its direction. It is probably due to the smaller size and less velocity of the bullets used in civil life, that the consecpiences of gunshot, parietal wounds of the abdomen are Tiot as severe in civil as in military prac- tice. Even in warfare, non-penetrating w-ounds are attended with a low mor- tality, whilst in civil })ractice recovery is the rule. Setting aside the risks of peritonitis, the immediate consequences of shock, and the complications which arise out of wounds of the kidney, colon, or bladder, etc., a favorable prognosis may be given with fair certainty. Hemorrhage is not common in gunshot wounds, though severe primary bleeding may occur if the kidney or some large parietal vessel, such as the deep epigastric, has been wounded ; and though secondary hemorrhage should be expected between the seventh and twelfth days, when the sloughs separate if an artery or vein has been con- tused. It must always be borne in iiiind that abscess and ditfuse suppuration are likely to arise in the track of a bullet. A fistulous opening, attended with swelling and pain, and giving rise from time to time to profuse discharge, may ensue; pieces of clothing and of fractured bones may be discharged or removed. The numbness which is felt at first after a gunshot wound, is fre- quently succeeded in a few days by intense pain. When a ball, instead of traversing the tissues directly, becomes defieeted by the edge of a rib, the xi}»hoid cartilage, or a layer of fascia, it may emerge at the opposite side of the trunk, and give the appearance of having passed straight through its cavity ; thus a bullet, penetrating the skin at the scrobiculus cordis, has l)een known to traverse the cellular tissue beneath the skin, and make its way out again at a spot diametrically op[)Osite to the wound of entrance ; oi-, after deviating thus in its course, it may just fail to make its exit. I have liad to remove from beneath the skin, close to the spinous process of the tenth dorsal vertebra, a pistol-bullet, which had entered the abdominal parietes opposite the anterior extremity of the tenth rib; the bullet had travelled around in the substance of the parietes. A ball may scoop or gutter out a portion of the integument without lodging or penetrating. Jjijiynosis.—A certainty as to whether the abdominal cavity has been penetrated or not, cannot be arrived at from the apparent direction or course ot the shot, neither is shock or functional derangement of the viscera sufficient evidence ot penetration. Indeed, nothing short of actual ocular or digital demonstration of the peritoneum, the protrusion of viscera, or the escape of their contents, can he received as actual proof that the wound is a “pene- trating’ one. The ])eritoneum may be exposed or bruised, or separated from its parietal connections, without being penetrated ; and the kidney, colon, bladder, or other extra-peritoneal organ, may be wounded without the ])erito- neal cavity being opened, and without extravasation into that cavity occur- ring. Such comyilications, however, greatly increase the dangers of gunshot VOL. v.—57