SURGICAL AFFECTIOXS OF THE THYROID GLAND. 609 and nerves, too, may be constricted by its wedging itself bebind tbe sternum, and this has followed from goitres of even small tlimensiojis when so placed. Diagnosis.—Goitre is distinguished from glandular tumors by its point of origin, and by its consisting of one or two slowly-growing masses, and not of multiple swellings, at first distinct and finallj^ coalescing, and occurring in dif- ferent positions from that of the thyroid bodies. Hydroceles of the neck, abscesses, and hydatids, have all a different clinical history, and, for the most part, a different position, and their physical characters and progress are differ- ent. An aneurism of the carotid is altogether distinct in position, character, and effects. Tubercular disease is rare in the thyroid, is indolent in its progress, occurs in persons of a special diathesis, and is commonly combined with similar disease elsewhere. Disseminated abscesses and fistulous open- ings, too, are usual in tubercular affections. Scirrhus is known by its bardness, mode of growth, fixation, bossy and irregular outline, absence of fluctuation and pulsation, great pain and rapidly- established pressure-effects, and by its influence on the general health. Treatment.—Internal remedies are of little use Avhen bronehocele has attained a great size. A\^hen recent, and of small or moderate dimensions, such remedies may prove serviceable in tlie measure Avitli Avhich they improve the general health and vigor, and correct those conditions on which the disease may depend. The removal of the patient from the district in which the disease has been contracted to a healthier one, careful attention to the sanitary surroundings of his dwelling, and also to his food and water supply, are measures which at once suggest themselves. If any of those supposed causes which have been already alluded to be in action, they must be removed or counteracted. Iodine, given internally, has long enjoyeci a large measure of confideuce in the treatment of bronehocele. Sponge, first useil by the Arabians, was administered as an electuary, or in the form of pastilles, tablets, etc. It was also burned and applied externally, as well as given internally. Coindet, of Geneva (whose name is intinaately connected with this subject), used the hydri- odate [iodide] of potassium, which is, perhaps, still the best preparation of iodine to use in this affection. It should bo given freely, and is Avell com- bined with (piinine and iron. “Lugol’s solution” (that is, iodine, 20 grains ; iodide of potassium, 30 grains ; water, 1 ounce; dose, six to twenty minims) is also a very favorite prescription Avith many. Iodine, hoAvever, is used in a great variety of ways in the treatment of goitre, and in doses of all degrees of concentration. It has been exhibited in natural and artilicial mineral waters, in food, in wine and milk, and even in cigars and snuff, but few now-a-days have the same faith in it as formerly, or believe it to possess any “ specific ” action in bronehocele. AVhen combined with iron and accompanied by other measui’es tending to improve the general health, it is no doubt very useful. Every kind of local treatment of goitre has had its advocates. Leeclies, purging, counter-irritation, and electricity have all been tried and found of no avail, unless to relieve congestion or the slighter forms of hypertrophy. Iodine is the most commoidy employed external application. In the form of tincture, or as an ointment variously combined with camphor, lead, mer- cury, etc., it has long been used in both the cystic and solid forms of goitre. In the East Indies, the biniodidc of mercury (5iij to the ])Ound of lard) has a high repute. Accoi’ding to Mouat* it is best rubbed in, in the early morning, for about ten minutes, a fresli portion being tben applied, and left to T»e absorbed, while the tumor is exposed to the heat of the sun. When the skin VOL. V.—39 ' Indian Annals of Medical Sciences, 1857.