INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 646 tilages, from deglutition of dilute nitric acid. In a case examined by myself,* there was mdema of the aryteno-epiglottic folds, in a case of burn of the larynx, the result of inhalation of flame in a burning building. Prognosis.—The prognosis is always grave when the injury has been ex- tensive, recovery being rare in severe cases. In slight cases the patients may recover thoroughly in a few days, but in severe cases they may perish at once, or within from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. The suppuration is profuse and exhausting. Sloughing of the arytenoid cartilages has been observed. (Ryland.) When recovery does ensue, it is often with perma- nent stenosis of the larynx, cicatrieial and infiltratory, requiring the use of the canula for respiration through an artificial opening. Death may take place by shock or by suffocative ap)noea, or at a remoter period by laryngitis, bi'onchitis, or pneumonia. Even though immediate death by threatening suffocation be averted by tracheotoni}',^ statistics show that more than half of the patients operated upon perish. Treatment.—It is very rarely that a patient is seen soon enough after swal- lowing an acid or caustic alkali, to expect advantage from administering neu- tralizing agents, whether h}^ deglutition or by the stomach tube. In severe cases of burn or scald of the larynx, precautionary tracheotomy seems to be demanded, as the laryngitis excited is apt to be attended with oedema of the larynx, which may prove fatal by suffocation before surgical relief can be given. Most surgeons, however, prefer to await the onset of the threaten- ing symptoms, this delay, perhaps, accounting in part for the slight amount of success which follows tracheotomy in these cases. Durham® reports that of 28 cases of tracheotomy in scald of the larynx, of which he had notes, 23 terminated fatally. If tracheotomy be deemed unnecessary, puncture or scari- fication of the (edematous mucous membrane may be employed with great advantage, and in some instances may obviate the necessity for the graver operation. As the inflammatory process rarely extends below the glottis, owing to spasmodic closure of the vocal bands at the time of the injury, the larynx may be opened through the crico-thyroid membrane in these cases ; especially in the adult, in whom the opening will he large enough to admit a sufficiently capacious tube. The operation is much less successful in children than in adults; the hemori'hage being more profuse, and the debility greater from the loss of blood. Slight cases may be treated efficiently by rest in the recumbent position, cold compresses or ice externally, and anodyne inhalations in vapor or in spray. Mucilaginous drinks are soothing to the parts, and contribute some- what to nourishment. Anodynes may be combined with them. Sprays of acetate of lead and of carbonate of sodium sometimes afford great relief. Severe cases require active antiphlogistic treatment, locally and constitution- ally. Collapse having been counteracted in the first instance b}" stimulant enemata, blood may be drawn by leeches from the u^iper portion of the ster- num, and the same part may then be covered with warm, sedative fomentations, while ice-bags, iccd-w'ater tubes, or cold compresses may be applied over the larynx as in milder cases. If the patient can swallow, an emetic should be given by tlie mouth; if not, emesis may be excited by apomorphia h}-po- dermica'lly. Mild chloride of mercury in doses of one, two, or three grains, every half hour, hour, or two hours, until free bilious evacuations ensue, has 1 Iiilialatioii, its Therapeutics and Practice, p. 294. Pliiladelphia, 1867. Kuehii, Die kiiiistliclie Eroffiuing der Luftwege, S. 278. 1864 ; Gurlt, Arch. f. klin. Chir., . Bd. i., S. 172, 194 ; Bryant, Surgical Diseases of Children, p. 67. London, 1863; Durham, op. cit., vol. i. p. 7hl. ® Op. cit., vol. i. p. 701.