SPLENOTOMY AND SPLENECTOMY. 1103 2 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d series, vol. xiii. p. 414. Causes foi' ichich the Spleen has been Excised.—From a table publislied l:)y lIerl)eTt Collier,^ it is seen that out of tweut^'-iiiue operations performed for diseased conditions since the year 1549, thirteen have been for diseases other than lencocythremia, and sixteen for lencocytliremia of the gland. Of these sixteen, all have been fatal. Of the diseases of the spleen nnassociated with lencocytlia?mia, in wliicli splenectomy has been performed, in two cases it has been boating or wandering spleen ; in one, hypertrophy associated with a boating state of the organ ; in three, hypertrophy from malaria; in three, simple hypertrophy; in one, liydatid followed by a sanions dischaige; in one, secondary enlargement after cirrhosis, and associated with ascites and anasarca; in one, sequestrated spleen in peritoneal abscess; and in one, hyper- trophy with a nnilocnlar cyst containing three litres of viscid bnid. Of these thirteen cases, eight have recovered. [Of 43 cases of splenectomy for disease, to which the editor has references, 31 are known to have terminated fatally—a proportioli almost identical with that shown by Mr. Collier’s bgnres.] For injury of the abdomen, inptlicating the spleen, and in several instances attended with protrusion, tlie results of excision and extirpation liave been very encouraging. Xnsshanm states that sixteen out of twenty-six opera- tions performed for traumatic causes have been quite successful. [The editor has references to 21 cases of splenectomy for traumatic causes, all of which are said to have terminated successfully.] 3Iode of j^erfonnivg th.e Operation.—The section of the abdominal wall has been variously made. In the brst known case (Zaccarelli’s, in 1549), the ex- ternal incision was over the tumor. In Kuchler’s (1855) and Bpencer NFells’s (18(35) cases, it was along the outer edge of the left rectus. In Biyant’s brst case (186G), a longitudinal incision was made from the eighth rib to the ante- rior superior s}une of the ilium on the left side; in his second case (1867), the incision in the left loin commenced “ below the ribs, at a point corresponding to a line extending upAvards from the anterior su[)erior spine of the ilium, and curving downwards and forwards in front of the crest. This line of incision was selected as it Avas sujqiosed to correspond Avith the horizontal line of the spine, and Avould thus, on the removal of the spleen, enal)le the surgeon to have the j)edicle of the gland more immediately under his oljser- A’ation and control, ami tend to prevent the risk of its being stretched or I'jerhaps lacerated ; it Avould at the same time alloAv of the removal of the very large organ in the readiest manner.”^ In the majority of the operations performed for disease, the external incision has been along the linea alba. In o[ierations for injury, the original Avound has sometimes been enlarged, hut iii other cases even this has been unnecessary. Tlie length of the incision varies Avitli the size of the organ to Ije removed, from throe inches or less, to ten inches or moi’e. The best incision is that along the linea semilunaris, or that, still further out, employed by Mr. Ilryaut. All hemorrhage from the parietes having been stop])cd, and the peritoneum opened, tlie omentum Avill probably ho found lying over part of the spleen. This must lie pushed on one side, and then the hand of the operator shoidd he piassed over, above, and on eacii side of the spleen, to ascertain if any ad- hesions exist lietAveeu it and surrounding parts. If any such ai'e found, they must he broken through, Avith the same care to prevent hemorrhage as in ovariotomy, clanqiing and ligaturing as their separation is jiroceeded Avitli. The spleen is next to lie raised out of the alidomiual cavity, lifting one end, generally the loAver, out brst. In doing this, precaution should he taken ' Lancet, Pel). 11, 1882.