601 TUMORS OF THE NECK. into whose composition iodine enters, is, if properly regulated, most useful in the subacute and chronic stages of simple adenitis, but it is very liable to abuse and overuse, and must be supervised. The employment of more powerthl local applications, such as cantharides, tartar emetic, croton oil, or mercury, is hazardous, because of the risk of inducing too violent action. Belladonna, too, to relieve pain, is rarely refpnred, and in young persons may occasion annoying symptoms. If suppuration occur, the pus cannot be too early evacuated, and this should be done by a clean cut with antiseptic precautions. That is better than the use of the aspirator, seton, etc., which rarely fulfil the end in view, and may irritate and do harm. Such puerilities as applying the iodine, not to the gland, but to the part (mouth, nose, etc.) from which its lymphatic vessels are derived, need liardly be mentioned. Shampooing, compression, crushing, acupuncture, and galvanism, either in the form of galvano-puncture or of the continuous current, have all their advocates in dealing with liypertrophy of cervical glands. Shampooing is very liable to be overdone, and so set up infiammation. I’ressure cannot well be applied in the neck, except, perhaps, in the parotid and mastoid regions, where there is bone behind ; but special forms of apparatus have been invented for its employment. Compresses of metal, wood, bone, agaric, cliarpie, etc., have been applied, and expensive and elaborate instruments have been con- structed, but their success has been small, and occasionally tlie harm caused has been considerable. Crushing alone, or combined with subcutaneous division by a cataract-needle, has too often l)een attended with ditfuse infiam- mation and suppuration. Mere mani}iulation has been used as a step pre- paratory to excision, “ in order to render the gland more movable.” “ Igni- puncture,” or the introduction of a pointed, red-hot iron into the middle of the mass, or the placing there some of JSIaisonneuve’s chloride-of-zinc pencils (“fleches”), have both been fairly tried, but with very indifi'erent success. Such applications are very painful, very violent, and attended with marked, danger in deep and large tumors, and they leave serious scars. Electrolysis is slow, troublesome, and generally unsatisfactory, but tliere are cases on record in which considerable masses of scrofulous glands have been dissipated by perseverance in its use.^ Interstitial injections of many kinds have been tided. Various solutions of iodine, nitrate of silver, chloride of zinc, salts of sodium, alcohol, perchloride of iron, and carbolic acid, and Fow- ler’s solution of arsenic, have been eni}iloyed. In most cases the aim has been to set up suppuration, and so to break down the mass; but iodine, wdieu so introduced, in the simple, chronic form of adenitis in healthy persons, is un- doubtedly a valuable remedy. It causes absorption, wdth but little disturb- ance, if used in small and repeated quantities, passed by means of a small hypodermic syringe deeply into the tumor, after the surface has been rendered insensible by the ether-spray. In scrofulous subjects, it is apt to be followed by suppuration and local disaster. Injections of solutions of chloride of zinc have, however, even in scrofulous cases, occasionally answered well. The excision of hypertrophied glands has been often practised. In simple chronic adenitis, and in scrofulous eidargements, it is quite justifiable when otlier mea- sures of less violence have failed, unless in children and young persons, for whom time and im})i’oved hygienic conditions may be expected to do much. It is, perhaps, in healthy females—in whom local and general remedies have failed, and who suffer from suj icrficial, distinct, chronic, and movable growths, which occasion deformity and annoying pressure—that excision is most justi- fiable. The position, size, connections, etc., of the tumor, must guide the ' Goldiiig-liircl, Lancet, 1877.