741 MORBID OROIVTHS OF THE LARYNX. Prognosis. — This is unfavorable. Recurrence is almost inevitalile, no matter what the surgical procedure adopted. The small spberoidal-celled variety progresses 'with tlie least, and the large spberoidal-celled with the greatest rapidity, the squamons-celled being intermediate. The average term of life, without operation, in the last variety, varies from two to foni- years. Intrinsic carcinoma affords a much better chance of prolonging life by surgical interference than extrinsic carcinoma, which is practically hopeless. Death may take place by sudden apuma, asthenia, hemoriliage, collapse, or pyaemia. Tracheotomy, performed when the dyspncea begins to he uro-ent, not only ameliorates suffering, hut prolongs existence. According to Fanvel's statistics, derived from his own practice,^ life is prolonged Iw tracheotonw to much the longest time in the scpiamous-celled variety. Thus, 7 patients with ^‘encephaloid cancer” lived, without operation, for an average of 3 years, while 8 on whom tracheotomy was performed averaged 3 j'ears and 9 months; and fcJ patients with “epithelioma” lived without operation for an average of one year and 9 months, while 7 after tracheotomy averaged 4 j’ears. The paritt' in numbers gives these statistics a special value. Some oliscrvers claim that early tracheotomy, although not indicated by progressing dyspnma, pro- longs life as a remedial agent. After the formation of an artificial ojiening amt the removal of obstructing masses, whether through the mouth or through the wound, the recurring growth may foi-ce its way to the exterior through the latter, or, as I have seen after low tracheotomy, it may rujiture an intact crico-thyroid membrane, and si)lit the thyroid cartilage to ii’i\ e exit to its outgrowths. Treatment.—Radical treatment involves surgical interference. ^Vliether this should be instituted, will depend upon the extent of the disease, the vigor of the patient, and the opportunities for attention after the operation. E.xtrinsic carcinoma offers no prospect for cure, even though the larynx he extirpated. Intrinsic carcinoma, as yet confined to the larynx and without lymphatic involvement, may justify laryngectomy ; inasmuch as consecutive disease in other parts is, to say the least, infrequent. 4’he prospects are by far the best when the disease is unilateral and occupies hut a limited portion of the larynx, so that partial exsection will suffice for conqlete riddance. (See section on laryngectomy.) At the meeting of the Deutschen Gesellscliaft fiir Chirurgie, in 1884, E. Ilahn, of Derlin, called attention^ to the fact that in eleven half sections of the larynx for carcinoma, only one patient perished from the operation, while recurrence seemed no more frequent than after total extirpation, and the preservation of functions was so good that in most instances the canula could he definitively removed. It is quite proliahle, however, that, taking cases as they run, more benefit is to be anticipated to the greater num- ber of sufferers, by prophylactic tracheotomy and the institution of palliative measures, constitutionally and topically. The patient should take care not to use his voice too fre(piently, and to avoid all risks of exciting laryngitis. The administration of arsenic is believed to liave some slight modifying in- fluence on the cachexia. Ergot is indicated to restrain hemorrhage; anodyne iidialations and insufflations of morphine diminish pain; weak solutions of silver-nitrate sometimes ohtund the sensitiveness of the parts; aromatized sprays cleanse them from mucus and pus; and disinfectant sprays control the unpleasant odor. Dyspnma requires rest of part and body. Semi-de- tached portions of growth inqteding respiration, may he removed with forcejis. and the raw surface may he sulqectcd to slight cauterization. Under other conditions, mechanical interference is to he deprecated. When suffocative * Op. cit., p. 717. 2 BiMlagff zuiii CmitralLlatt fiir Cliirurg’ie, No. 23, S. .7.7. 1884.