INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1092 These remarks are taken from a paper on “ Intermitting Hydronephrosis,” published b}" myself in 1876, and are based on numerous experiments, some of which are there recorded.^ In ])erforming the operation, the aspirating trocar should he inserted with- out any previous incision of the skin ; if a larger trocar be used, an incision through the integument and muscles is sometimes made before introducing the instrument. The dangers of the operation are very slight. If the puncture he made too far forwards, and through a non-adherent peritoneum, some of the con- tents of the cyst may be extravasated into the peritoneal cavity on with- drawing the canula—an accident which has proved fatal in more than one case. There is also the danger of wounding the intestine, which, as a rule, is in front of and adherent to the tumor, and if the trocar he long, or be thrust too far inwards, it may penetrate some important bloodvessels, and cause dangerous if not fatal hemorrhage. The penetration of the thin edge of the liver with an aspirating needle, though to he avoided, is not an accident likely to be followed by any ill consequence. The instrument should not penetrate too near the ribs, for fear of wounding the pleura. ISTepiirotomy is performed for hydronephrosis when the cyst refills rapidly after having been punctured ; for hydatid cysts under similar circumstances, or when from the number and size of the daughter-cysts the contents cannot be evacuated through a small tube; for pyonephrosis; and for any case in which the kidney has been converted into an abscess-sac, whether from the presence of calculus or tubercle. The incision is precisely the same as for lumbar colotomy, except that, as the kidney is situated a little nearer the median line than the colon, the dee[) part of the wound should be kept a little posterior to that of colotomy. A slight oblique incision should he made in the costo-iliac interspace, begin- ning over the outer edge of the erector spinie muscle, and continued forwards for three and a half inches. After dividing the skin, superficial fat, and fascia, the outer border of the latissimus dorsi, and the posterior border of the external oblique of the abdomen will be brought into view, and should be divided to the full extent of the superficial incision. It is unnecessary to open the sheath of the erector spiiise. Next, the internal oblique and the aponeurosis of the transversalis must be cut through, whereupon the outer border of the quadratus lumborum will he seen, and the deep layer of the lumbar aponeurosis must then be divided. Ho grooved director or other guide will have been necessary up to this stage, a scalpel and a pair of dissecting forceps for the operator, and two well-formed, deep retractors for his assjistant, being all the instruments required beyond two or more pairs of torso-pressure forceps to control hemorrhage from any vessels cut in the division of the parietes. The peri-renal fatty tissue, having thus been reached, will, in all probability, be found condensed, and otherwise much altered, from the inflam- matory process which has gone on in and around the kidney ; and if the ope- ration be done for abscess of the kidney, suppurative changes, perhaps, will have taken ]>lace in the structure forming the bed of the organ. 'When this tissue has been divided, tlie distended pelvis, cyst, or abscess (as the case may he) of the kidney should be either first tapped, or at once cut into, its con- tents evacuated, and the cavity well irrigated with some disinfecting solution. If it be thought desirable, as it is in hydrone[)hrosis and cyst of the kidney, to stitch the'eut edges of the cyst to the edges of the skin, this should now be done. A drainage-tube should be inserted, and the greater part of the ' Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. lix. p. 243. 1870.