508 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. in wliicli he had removed tiie enlarged and infiltrated lymphatic glands with good results. Really, life prolonged in misery is worse than death followino; close upon the operation, and I have been thanked more than once by dying patients for having given relief during the few days for which they survived. Aniesthetics, moreover, have robbed operations of so much of their horror, that patients may nowadays be induced to submit to extensive mutilations Avhich would have been impossible, or at least unadvisable, without chloroform. Chloroform is necessarily the anaesthetic to be employed in operations upon the tongue, for ether is inadmissible, first because of the difficulty of keeping the patient under its influence when atmospheric air necessarily gains free admission ; and secondly because if, as often happens, a cautery is required in the course of the operation, a dangerous explosion and conflagration in the patient’s mouth, may be caused by the inflammable vapor of the ether. Ligature of the Ungual artery has been advocated by both Demarquay and Moore,^ in order to check the growth of cancer of the tongue, as well as for the arrest of hemorrhage, but has not yielded the results anticipated. I have on two occasions tied the lingual artery, once for hemorrhage occurring in the course of a case of cancer, and once with the view of checking the growth which was rapidly extending, but in neither case did the ligature appear to have any influence in staying the course of the disease. Division of the lingual nerve is another palliative operation, recommended by Hilton and Moore, and this certainly is efficacious, for a time at least, in relieving the pain of a cancer involving the side and tip of the tongue. The operation is not a difficult one, and has the negative advantage of doing no harm if it effects little good. The operator feels for the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, immediately below the last molar tooth, and a sharp-pointed curved bistoury, pushed through the mucous membrane at this point, will readily divide the nerve against the lower edge of the ridge, with little or no bleeding. The side of the tongue will be thoroughly numbed for some da3''s, and then sensation slowly returns from union of the divided nerve, when the operation may be repeated. Removal of 'portions of the to'ngue with the knife is an operation which has fallen into disuse, owing to the hemorrhage ordinarily accompanying it. Sir William Rergusson, wdio advocated the practice, and who thus removed more than one-half of the tongue in the case of the late Dr. John Reid, maintained that the fear of hemorrhage in these cases was exaggerated, and in his account of that particular operation, says “ The bleeding for a minute or two looked formidable; several vessels were speedily secured, and there was no further trouble in this respect.” It must be noted that the operation was performed without an aiuesthetic, the patient being a man of great moral courage and physical endurance, and that only one lingual artery was divided. With an unconscious patient in whom both arteries have been divided far back, I have seen the very greatest difficulty arise in securing the vessels, which play across one another, and obscure the operator’s view in the dark cavity of the throat. In such cases, and in cases of secondary hemorrhage after removal of large portions of the tongue, I have found that it is practicable to arrest all bleeding in the following way. The fore-finger, passed well down to the epiglottis, is made to hook forward the hyoid bone, and drag it up as far as ^iraeticable towards the symphysis menti. The effect of this is to stretch the lingual arteries so as to completely control for the time the flow of blood through them, and in this way portions of the anterior part of the tongue • Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xlv. 2 System of Practical Surgery, p. 517.