G14 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. l»ound cysts of the neck do not, as a ride, occasion the pressure-effects which result from those cysts which form in connection with the thyroid, and their movement with the trachea is not so marked. Cysts of the thj'roid, too, do not show helow the tongue, as congenital cysts are apt to do. Kemarkable errors have been made between highly vascular goitres and aneurismal tumors. This has been due to the presence of expansile pulsation, sot(ffie, etc., in both. A careful inquiry into the mode and exact place of origin, the extent, shape, and consistence of the tumor, together with an ob- servation of the effects of pressure a}>plied in turn to each carotid at the root of the neck ; the movements of the tumor with deglutition ; the absence of any decided reducibility, or of effects detectalile in the arteries beyond the growth; also, the state of the superficial veins, and, possibly, even the influ- ence of internal treatment by iodine and tonics, will clear up the diagnosis. The rapid enlargement which the thyroid occasionally undergoes as the result of inflammation and congestion, is easily recognized. It is seen at times as the result of injury to a pre-existing, though perhaps little observed, goitre. The violent pain increased on pressure and movement; the local signs of inflammation (heat, redness, and swelling), and the serious fever which it occasions, together Avith the rpiickly-established pressure-effects, and the in- fluence of antiphlogistic treatment, will conjoin to distinguish it. The chronic glandular hypertrophy and hnnphoma of the neck, have had their characters fully described. In the former, the enlargements are almost always multiple and in chains, in the Avell-known position of the lymphatic glands. Firm or hard, painless as a rule, sIoav of growth, with unaltered skin, and, possibly, with concomitant evidence of a strumous diathesis, the nature of these tumors Avill usually be apjiarent. They have not the same position as that occupied by thyroid growths, do not occasion the same local effects, and do not follow the movements of the Avindpipe in deglutition. Surgical Affections of the Parotid Gland. The parotid is the largest of the salivary glands, and lies on the ramus of the loAver jaAv, passing also deeply behind it and betAveen it and the mastoid process, being thus in close relation with most important structures. The external cai’otid artery Avith its great terminal branches, together Avith the A’eins Avhich accompany them, the facial neiwe and its important divisions, Avith branches from the cervical plexus, are imbedded in it, Avhile the internal carotid and internal jugular, the spinal accessory, glosso-pharyngeal and A^agus nerves lie close to its deep surface. It is inclosed, except its pharyngeal sur- face, in a strong fibrous sheath, and its duct, Avhich is a resistant, fibrous tube lined by mucous membrane,opens Avithin the cheek opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaAv. Cellular tissue and muscle lie over or superficial to the parotid, so that it is firmly bound doAvn and covered on its outer aspect, hut the deficiency of its capsule on the dee}> or pharyngeal surface has an important bearing on the direction taken by pus Avhen formed deeply Avithin the glaqd, and by cancerous groAvths in their extension. The parotid varies considerably in size, Avithin the limits of health, and it is occasionally the seat of inflammation and of ATirious groAvths. Many ahsorhent glands exist over, Avithin, and beloAv tlie parotid, and as they derive lymphatic vessels from the velum and gums, they are liable to many sources of irritation. Some authors have described a curious sioeating or distillation of salivary f.uid, from minute ])oints in the skin OA^er the paixitid, during eating, and in one case^ in Avhich this Avas observed, it Avas found after death that the paro- * Baillanger, Bull, de I’Acad. de Medecine. Paris, 1847.