El’ISTAXIS. 401 At the expiration of forty-eight hours, therefore, they should usually he removed, by the use of forceps and probe, and the atfected nasal cavity should be carefully syringed out. To accomplish the same purpose, but to obviate the disagreeable necessity of plugging the nares, as here described, several devices have been intro- duced. Kuchenmeister uses a rubber tidie terminating in a rubber Ijall; the ball is forced through the nostril into the pharynx, distended with water injected through the tube and retained by a stopcock, and then pulled for- wards. Others use a rubber tampon distended with air. Englisch uses two rubber halls connected by a tul)e; one ball remains at the anterior open- ing of the nasal passage and occludes it.^ Erank^ suggests that a bag of hog’s intestine be moistened, passed into the nasal canal l)y means of a probe, and then injected or inflated; and, finally, l)iday^ extols tlie use of a thin caoutchouc bag, employed in the same way. The internal use of htemo- statics is not often called for during an attack of bleeding, but it is a com- mon practice to prescribe them if it be at all prolonged. Perchloride of iron, acetate of lead, gallic or sulphuric acid, and opium, are thus employed. Sul- phate of sodium is recommended by Ileurze,^ one or two drachms being given every three or four hours, the ol>ject being to increase the density of the blood. For the i)urpose of causing contraction of the arterioles, ergotine is undoubtedly the l>est remedy, used either by the moutli or, if time presses, subcutaneously. In extreme cases only is transfusion called for. Mosler relates a case of leukpemic nose-bleed, in winch not oidy the attack, but also the return of the epistaxis, as well as tlie occurrence of any other hemor- rhage, was prevented by this means. Morton likewise details an inter- esting case of the same nature.® The question may be a})propriately raised, in many eases of epistaxis, whether or no it is advisable to intei-fere at all with the processes of nature. Peyer gives the following rule for the guidance of the surgeon in such instances;® “ Plethoi’ic youths in whom an epistaxis is aborted are prone to be attacked by cephalalgia, otalgia, and vai'ious catarrhal aftections. Any hemorrhage which is accomjianied by debility, pallor, and coldness, must be considered as excessive, and in such cases the active aid of the physician is demanded.” Mackenzie^ tersely sums up other contra-indications. Where there is great venous obstruction, as in cardiac disease, emphysema, cirrhosis of the liver, etc.—or in females where the hernorrhinia is of a vicarious char- acter—there is little demand for precipitate interference unless the bleeding has been very persistent. Exainples exist in which mania,® epilepsy,® rheu- matism, and dyspncDa,’® have been cured or greatly alleviated by an attack of epistaxis. On the other hand, not only are immediate and also subsequent local treatment demanded in many instances, but constitutional indications are likewise to 1)C met. An example is attbixled in the habitual nose-bleed of anaemia, and others will suggest themselves. 1 Allg. Wien. med. Zeitnng, S. 191. 1875. ® Grundsiitze liber d. Beliandl. d. Krank. d. Menschen, u. s. vv., Bd. vi. S. 145. Mannheim, 1797. 5 Weber, Pitha nnd Billrotli’s Handbucli, Bd. iii. 1 Al>tli. 2 Lief. S. 187. Compend. d. ]>ract. Med., IV. Aufiage, S. 94. '' Am. .lour. Med. Sci., .Inly, 1874. De Morbis Narinm. Basile®, 17(16. ^ Loc. cit. ® Van Swieten, Comment, in H. Boerliaave aphorismos, 1124. “ Hoffmann, De Ejiilepsia. Raymond, Traite des maladies qu’il est dangereux de guerir, p. 255. VOL. V.—2b