862 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. after tlie burn.^ It should be mentioned that many other conditions are known to have been accompanied by ulcers of the stomach or duodenum, or both ; such as erysipelas, pemphigus, and pellagra. Foreign bodies in the gastro-intestinal tube may of course give rise to ulceration.^ Cutaneous Eruptions, Carbuncle, Furuncle, and Ulceration of the Abdominal Parietes. Cutaneous Eruptions.—Rupia, ecthy ma, and most of the cutaneous eruptions, syphilitic and simple, affect the surface of the abdomen, but need not here be considered. The first evidence of secondary syphilis is in a large number of cases to be detected in the cutaneous rash on the abdomen ; in my experience it is earliest and best seen on the front and sides of the belly. Herpes zoster not unfrequently affects the abdomen, and may be preceded for some days by severe pain, the cause of which will seem quite inexplicable. If the eruption is coming out low down, upon the surface supplied by the iliodiypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, the testicle may be the seat of pain, and through the irritation of the genito-crural nerve may be drawn up towards the external ring, and a renal calculus may be suspected. The absence of functional disturbance of the abdominal viscera, and the appearance of a crop of vesicles along the course of the nerves, will, however, soon make clear the nature of the case. Boils and carbuncles occur on all parts of the abdomen and in the lum- bar regions, and are by no means uncommon, though less frequent here than on the neck and on tlie nates. I have had to treat some very severe cases of carbuncle both in the hypogastric and lumbar regions, and have had the happiest results, here as in other parts of the body, by wiping over the surface and edges with liquid carbolic acid, lightly applied by means of a small wad of cotton-wool, and boring three or four holes into the swelling with crystals of the acid pressed upon the surface; as soon as the acid has penetrated the skin, it permeates the diseased structures and its action becomes widely dif- fused. Sometimes, three or four days are required before a free opening is effected; but I have always found the spreading of the carbuncle to be checked by the first application, and am so impressed Avitli its beneficial effects that I take this opportunity of recommending it to those who have not tried it. Ulceration of the surface of the abdomen occurs as the result of neglected, irritated, or badly treated scratches or abrasions of the skin, and of the excoriations about the umbilicus and in the groins of persons of dirty habits and unhealthy constitution. The umbilicus in new-born babes, and in very fat adults, occasionally becomes inflamed and ulcerated from neglect of cleanliness. In the former, after the separation of the stump of the funis, profuse suppuration, or serious ulceration, attended sometimes by fatal hemor- rhage, occurs instead of healthy cicatrization; I have seen ulceration from this cause followed by fatal eiysipelas of the parts arouud the umbilicus. Treatment.—If the ulceration is slight, cleanliness, and the application of lead lotion or benzoated-zinc ointment, will suffice ; if it becomes indolent, some stimulating lotion or ointment will be required. If there is much inflammation, or hemorrhage, prompt and decisive treatment to check the > Am. Journal Med. Sciences, October, 1883. - See section on Foreign Bodies in Stomach and Intestines.