INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 18 from a height, cutting and bending outwards a trapdoor fragment, including the whole thickness of the skull. " In the Mutter Museum of the College of Idiysicians ot Philadelphia, there is one specimen from a case in which a circular-saw accident elevated a large fragment, and another from one in Fig. 821. Fig. 822. Fracture of inner table of skull. Fracture of occipital bone by hatchet-wound. which a blow from a hatchet did the same, hut appears to have completely separated the fragment, which, sliding down, has become co-ossitied there, leaving a permanent ojiening through the occipital hone. (Fig. 822.) Sabre- ents not uncommonl}’ produce similar elevations of the broken hone.' “ In the IMuseum of the Royal College of Surgeons there are ten skulls which have suffered from veiy severe slicing cuts The portions of bone thus sliced, and they are large pieces, were once detached, and after- wards reunited a little out of their proper places.'"^ Incised fractures^ the result of cutting instruments, are, however, rare in civil practice, although cuts with hatchets, knives, and circular saws occa- sionally produce such injuries. Sword cuts, especially when the weapon is very shai'}), may shave otf a slice of bone involving only the outer table, as in a s}>ecimen in the Army Medical Museum, or they may penetrate no far- ther than the diploe, as in a case observed by Dr. F. II. Gross, of Philadelphia, where a shoemaker's knife stopped just short of the inner table. This fact should be borne in mind, as there may be no necessity for cutting through the whole thickness of the skull to remove imbedded fragments. When both tables of the skull are involved, especially in hatchet and axe wounds, the inner table is apt to be extensively comminuted and depressed in a linear manner. The only specimen with which I am familiar, showing an exception to this rule, is that of which I have already spoken, where the sword Avas evi- dently exceeding!}" sharp, and made a number of almost clean cuts, without any appreciable splintering of the inner table. A probe introduced sidcAvays beneath the fragments Avill sometimes demonstrate this separation of the inner table by detecting its presence at a loAver level. Punctured, fractures present tAvo broad Amrieties, auz., those inflicted by sharp, and those inflicted by dull instruments. It Avill be seen that the distinction is not a superfluous one, Avhen I explain that Avhen the Avound is made by a narroAv, smooth, sharp instrument, such as a penknife-blade, there may not be the slightest splintering or depression of the inner table, if the instrument Cooper, op. cit., p. 132. * Guthrie, op. cit., p. 362.