188 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. retinitis, with changes so peculiar and characteristic, when seen with the oj)hthalmoscope, that the diagnosis of renal disease can be made from them alone. Still, we can he reasonably certain of the true lesion without using the ophthalmoscope. These eye s^unptoms, in a case of pregnancy, should lead us to expect puerperal convulsions before or at confinement. Again, a patient with perhaps a syphilitic or rheumatic history, complains of double vision. This may or may not have followed headaches and other evidences of brain disturbance. It may have come from a current of air, or from no appreciable cause. He is giddy and uncertain in his gait. The moment one eye is shut, the diplopia ceases, and he sees without confusion. In closing one eye and walking across the room, his head swims and he staggers. Let him now shut tliat eye and walk with the other open. He feels secure and steady. He has jmralysis of some one of the six rotatory muscles, and the lame eye is the one which he cannot walk with. Further investigation will differentiate the implicated muscle. Another patient, a youth, has had excruciating attacks of headache, accompanied by vomiting. These parox}^sms have lasted for months. They come suddenly, even when he is eating his dinner, and cpnckly he vomits his food and is relieved. He may eat again at once. This is causeless vomit- ing, not preceded by protracted nausea, but by violent pain in the head. At length dimness of vision begins in both eyes. The pupils are dilated, and there is a vague stare in the expression. This is a case of double o\Mc neuritis from central brain lesion, probably a tumor. Of course the prognosis is very grave, both for sight and for life. A child is brought, with supposed cataract in one eye. Your attention is attracted at once to a peculiar, yellowish, copper-colored reflex from the pupil. You see that it is too deep in the eye foi- cataract, and that it has not the color of an opaque lens. Otherwise the eye looks well. There is no pain as yet, and the little victim perliaps still sees somewhat with it. Diagnosis: glioma, or rather sarcoma, of the retina; and prognosis: death in a few months. A Iverson more advanced in years, has complained at intervals, for a long time, of pain, injection of the eye, and failing sight. At first he detects a circnniscribed defect of vision in a certain limited portion of the field. Slowly the blind, region enlarges, and the pain increases in frequency and severity till, at last, the lilind eye is intensely painful all the time. Tension is increased ; ciliary injection is marked ; and large, tortuous, and inosculating vessels are seen in loops around the cornea. The pupil is excessively dilated ; the anterior chamber very shallow; the iris discolored and its tissue greatly atrophied. This is probably a case of secondary glaucoma coming from a sarcoma or other tumor of the choroid. A similar growth in the ciliary body would be seen distinctly behind one edge of the lens, pushing it and the iris forwards. A female, up in years and probalily unmarried, consults you for excessive nervousness. Her eyes are protruded. Her expression is anxious. She gets scared and “ flies all to ])ieces” at nothing. Her pulse runs from 120 to 140, feeble and irregular. There is more or less eidargement of the thyroid gland. These peculiar troubles vary in intensity, as they are influenced by mental or bodily disturbance, but her condition at all times is pitiable. This is a case of Graves’s or Basedoio’s disease. It sometimes, but rarely, attacks men. Exophthalmus, as a common symptom of tumors of the orbit, can hardly be confounded ivith exopbthalmic goitre, when we re- member that the former very seldom affects both eyes, and that the latter always does, though perhaps in different degrees. Then the peculiar com- bination of the three leading diagnostic sym}»toms of Basedow’s disease—•