1102 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. of nephrectomy hitherto recorded is over 150, of which at least 66 have ter- minated fatally—a percentage of mortality corresponding pretty closely with that derived from Kroner’s and Harris’s statistics.] Laterallietro-peritoneal Nephrectomy.—Mr. Thornton has suggested a method which may be described as the lateral, retro-peritoneal operation. It con- sists in making an incision parallel with the linea semi-lunaris, but further out, and then reaching the kidney by raising the colon and peritoneum. The plan would probably answer very well for certain cases of tumor, and Mr. Thornton has ernploj’ed it successfully in a case in Avhich the ureter of a healthy kidney had been divided in ovariotomy. The advantage claimed for abdominal nephrectomy and for the lateral, retro-peritoneal method, is that they enable the vessels to be isolated and tied before the main enucleation is performed, and that thereby hemorrhage is saved. The curved incision used for ligaturing the common iliac, or aorta, might be substituted for the lateral method of Thornton. Splenotomy and Splenectomy. {Excision and Extirpation of the Spleen.) In 1678, Mattiiias^ removed the protruding spleen from a man aged 23, who had been stabbed. The patient recovered in three weeks. In 1711,^ a woman aged 30 had an abdominal abscess opened to the left of the umbilicus, and a bluish body, which was seen at the opening, was removed ; it proved to be the spleen. The patient made a good recovery, and afterwards bore a healtliy child. Blundell,^ in 1823, experimented upon rabbits, and in seven instances took out the spleen. Two recovered permanently, and were fat and well five years afterwards. Two recovered temporarily, but died three and a half and six months afterwards Of peritonitis, and in each, a large sac about the size of an orange, and filled with a thin, puriform fiuid, was found in the left hypoehondrium. Three died from three to five days after the operation from peritonitis. Blundell also refers to two successful cases of excision of the s})leen, in Avhich the spleen protruded through a wound in the side. These cases have been referred to in speaking of wounds and protrusion of the spleen. (1. A case of sabre-woUnd received at the battle of Bettingen, and 2. A Mexican under the care of I)r. O’Brien.) A surgeon named John Fei’guson, of Strabane, writing in 173B to Mr. Cheselden, Surgeon to Clielsea Hospital, describes a case of penetrating Avound Avith protrusion of the spleen, three and a half ounces of Avhich he ligatured and cut away after the Avounded man had had his spleen protruding tAA cnty- four hours; the patient recoA^ered from the operation. In reference to this case, Ferguson, in his note to Cheselden, says, “ for though you have taken the spleen out of a dog Avithout any remarkable inconvenience, yet it has never been attempted tliat I knoAV of in a human body.” Other cases have been recorded,® which prove that complete recovery has taken place after total, as Avell as after partial removal of the spleen for injury Avith protrusion. Dr. Wilks® Avas the first in England, Avho by his Avritings advocated the trial of splenectomy for disease. ’ Quoted by Simon, of Rostock (Die Extirpation der Milz am Mensclieii. Giessen, 1857). 2 Fantoui, Opuscnla Medica. Genev®, 1738 ; quoted by Simon. ® Ashwell, op. cit. , Pbilosopliical Transactions for October and November, 1738, p, 425. ® Cases are given by Ilecker, Simon, and others. ® Guy’s Hospital Rej)orts, 3d series, vol. ii. p. 37.