CROUP AND DIPIITIJERIA. 711 The causes preventing early, definitive withdrawal of the cannla, are inflam- matory tumefaction, spasm, aiul diphtheritic paralysis. Prolonged retention is, in most cases, due to fungous excrescences in the track of the wound, or on the internal surface of the air-passages. These are often the direct result of irritation by the edges of a fenestrum in the upper portion of the outer tube, so placed, in the great majority of instances, as to open upon the track of the fistula in the soft tissues exterior to the air-passages, instead of being wholly Avithin the air-tube. Practically the fenestrum is useless, for no tulje should be used large enough to fill the calibre of the air-passage, or to prevent a sufficient current of air from passing outside for purposes of phonation. The canula having been removed, the remaining fistula should be alloAved to contract of itself, the part l>eing simply protected from access of dust by a little apron of muslin straddled on an adhesive strip, or a tape, above it. If undisturbed, the cicatrization is usually complete in tAvo or three <lays, some- times in less than forty-eight hours. When cicatrization progresses satisfac- torily, the prognosis is favorable as to ultimate recovery. Delay indicates some impending complication, usually pneumonia, an exanthem, or paralysis. The casualties lohich 'prevent recovery after tracheotomy for croup or diphtheria arise from two sources. Those of one set are incident to the dis- ease, and those of the other to the operation. The first Avill be merely mentioned. They comprise extension of the pseudo-memIn-ane, systemic infection, paralysis, nephritis, pneumonia, and heart-clot. The accidents of the second class corn})rise hemorrhage (primary and secondary), emphysema, intlammation of the track of the incision, erysi})elas, abscess, gangrejie, diph- theria of the Avound, ulceration of the trachea, and pneumonia. Some of these need special comment. Hemorrhage may result from division of a vessel during the operation, from manipulation in dressing the parts, from ulceration by pressure of the canula, or from Amscularity of the delicate granulations in the track of the Avound. Compression against the tube is the best treatment, small pieces of aljsorbent cotton being placed above the incision, one on to[> of another, as ref|uired. It is dangerous to remove the canula and search for the bleeding vessel. Alco- hol and ergot may be administered internally. Inflammation of the Avound and of the parts around it, occurs more frerpiently in tissues over Avhich a fine gum cloth or piece of oiled silk has been used as a dressing, vesication taking place under the dressing in consecpience of detention there of the secretions and discharges. Hence it may be avoided to some extent by reject- ing such dressings. The sAvelling may be so great as to necessitate removal of the original tube and its re}tlacement by a longer one, to reach the interior of the air-passage. Emphysema is usually caused by an unskilful operation ; most frerpiently by denudation of the peri-tracheal fascia in rough endeavors to introduce a tube; less frequently by faulty incisions. If limited to the vicinity of the AVOund, it is practically unimportant. If extensive—and it is sometimes very exten- sive—it may force the tube out of the trachea, and necessitate the substitution of a longer one. It usually disappears within a day or tAvo. Occasionally it lasts more than a week. If due to the use of too short a tube, a longer one must be introduced, or a catheter suljstituted for it, the edges of the tracheal Avound being kept asunder by dilator, forceps, blunt hooks, bent hair-pins, ligatures, or Avhatever device may be at hand. Much of the air in the Aueinity of the Avound can be expelled by gentle friction towards it. Sometimes it may be necessary to puncture the skin at a feAv points. Ulceration of the trachea by attrition of the canula may be su])erficial, or may be so deep as to ex[iose the cartilages or even penetrate the trachea. It is due to illy fitting tubes. It is most frequent anteriorly, sometimes