CHRONIC LARYNGITIS. 699 Prognosis.—In simple, uncomplicated cases, tlie prognosis is favorable, recovery taking place under proper regimen and assiduous topical and consti- tutional treatment. It is mucli less favorable in cases wbicb are tbe direct serpielre of measles, smal]})Ox, dipbtberia, or traumatism, though still sus- ceptible of considerable amelioration. In none of these instances is tbe laryngitis directly menacing to life. It is lialile, however, to excite the de- velopment of neoplasms, usually clinically benign, a result which temporarily or permanently increases the gravity of the })rognosis. When the muscular tissue of the vocal bands is involved in the process, as manifested by tumefaction on their inferior surfaces extending lieyond tlieir normal borders, the })rognosis is uidavorable, this condition rarely suli- siding. Indeed, the induced dysputea often demands tracheotom}", usually Avith little prospect of the patient being able to dispense wdth the canula. True or false anchylosis of tbe crico-arytenoid articulation is an occasional result of chronic laryngitis of constitutional origin. In cases attended l)y profound dyscrasia of whatever origin, perichondritis, abscess, chondritis, and necrosis, are imminent, and their advent renders the prognosis unfavorable. The chronic laryngitis of tuberculosis is of very grave augury, as the impression of the diatliesis is usually so strong as [)ractically to preclude recovery, even though ulcerative processes may undergo intercurrent repair. Ulceration limited to the epiglottis indicates a much more rapid termination than ulceration in the interior of the larynx. Few cases survive tbe eigh- teenth month of marked laryngeal disease. The clironic laryngitis of syphilis is (piite prone to cause ulceration, the cicatrization of Avhicli may })roduce stricture. In malignant disease, the prognosis is necessarily unfavorable. Treatment.—Hygienic measures as to dress, ventilation, and ablutions, and dietetic regulations adapted to tbe impaired functions of the gastro-intestinal tract, are essential in very many instances. Everything knoAvn to induce temporary exacerbation of the malady should be avoided to the utmost limit practicable. Constitutional imperfections should lie inquired into, and remedied by appropriate measures, medicinal and otherwise. S3’steniic measures alone, judiciously as tliey may lie instituted, rarely suthce without topical treatment. The general recognition of this fact has led to the use of a greater variety of local measures than has perhaps been emplo^md in the treatment of an}-" other malady. Much must be done by the medical atten- dant ; much eau be left to tbe patient and the nurse. Tbe condition of excessive or diminished secretion furnishes tbe chief indication for home- treatment, the oljjeet of wddch should be to keep the parts clean and sweet, and thus give tbem a chance to get well. Alkalies augment secretion from tbe mucous memlu’ane, and facilitate its detachment, irenco alkaline sjirays, insufflated or inlialed at regular intervals, are indicated in cases of deficient secretion. An aipieous solution of ammonium-cbloride, live grains to the ounce, iidialed for three or four minutes four times a day, often answ’ers admirably. Sodium-borate, live grains to the ounce of tar water, with tbe addition of a dracbm of glycerine to facilitate solution, is tbe remedy most in use by myself. Sodium-bicarbonate, sodiuin-cldoride, soilium-cblorate, sodium-io<lide, potassium-iodide, or potassium-chloride, may be substituted in the same doses when cither of tbe other agents fails. In some cases vegetable promoters of secretion, sueb as pyrctlium and jaboramli, may be more serviceable, from one to live minims of the fluid extract to the ounce of water. When indicated, Avatery extract of opium may be added to re- lieve pain. A few" drops of Cologne Avater or of some balsamic may render the spray more agreeable. When secretion is excessive, Aveak mineral astrin- gents arc indicated; zinc-sulpbate, or zinc-sulphocarbolato, two grains to the