393 DISEASES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. occasionally the seat of this form of ulceration. An intolerably offensive odor is emitted, and the exhaustion attendant upon it is often fatal. Watson has called attention to the fact that in paresis of the fifth pair of nerves, ulceration of the mucous memljrane of the nose may occur as the result of the disturbance of nutrition, associated with their sensory function [neuro-paralytic ulcers). He adds that little can he done in the Avay of local treatment. Scrofulous ulcers., according to Fraenkel, frecpiently occur in the victims of scrofula, upon the nasal mucous membrane. At times, and as a rule, small, at other times they may penetrate deeply, and destroy both bones and cartilage. Special care is necessary, in order to differentiate them from similar ulcers of a syphilitic nature. Glanders.—The source of glanders in the human subject can almost uni- formly be traced to an accidental inoculation of the virus from an animal affected with the disease, for isolated instances only exist where it has been communicated from man to man. The mucous membranes, and first that of the nasal cavity, early manifest symptoms of inflammatory and ulcerative action. At the outset, and following the general lassitude, pain in the hack and limbs, headache, and rigors, the discharge from the nose is of thin, viscid, and light-colored mucus only. Gradually, however, there a}>pears in the acute form of tlie disease, swelling and redness of the organ and its adjacent parts, accompanied by sevmre pain ; its upper portion is especially sensitive to the touch, exhibiting a diffuse, erysipelatous swelling. The nasal discharge now becomes of a thicker consistence, more purulent, of a brownish-yellow color, sanguineous and offensive. Histinct tubercles are fmpiently seen, situated especially upon the ahe, and tlie formation of pustules and ulcers in the mucous membrane of the nose may be distinguished in many instances in the more malignant forms. These terminate in involvement of the peri- chondrium and perforation of the septum.^ The constitutional disturbances attendant upon these local manifestations are marked. Aside from tliose already mentioned, the pulse and temperature are high, and the rcsjiiration embarrassed ; delirium occurs early ; swellings of a red color upon the logs, and pustules about the face, follow, the (ndginal pustules assuming a imr])lisli tint. Hiarrhfea and profuse sweating, witli restlessness and increased delirium, are but the forerunliers of the end, exhaustion and death closing the scone.^ In chronic glanders, the nasal lesions do not differ essentially from those in the acute form of tlie disease just described. They run a longer course, however, and are sometimes entirely absent. The treatment resolves itself, practically, into that of the general condition. Little can be done locally, aside from the injection of disinfectant solutions into the nasal cavities for the pur[)Oses of cleanliness. Aj)i)lications of tinc- ture of iodine or nitrate of silver have been advised by Bollinger. Lupus.—If lupus of the cutaneous surface, especially of the face, be not pre- sent, the diagnosis of lipioid ulcers within the nose is a matter of some diffi- culty, since they are readily confounded with like affections of sy]»hilitic origin.^ The points in differential diagnosis have been well stated by Dur- ham. Attention must be directed to the history of the case, to the age of the patient, to the absence of other symptoms of syphilis, and especially of the characteristic cachexia which almost always accompanies the more serious syphilitic aflections of the nose, and also to the conqiai-ative slowness with • Consult the excellent article hy Bollinger, Zienissen’s Cyclop:edia, vol. iii. p. 35G. See Schilling, Meflico-Chirurgical 'Transactions, 1830-3f. ^ See Moinee, 'These de Paris, No. 23G. 1877.