1123 STRANGULATED HERNIA. constricted: there is then no total obstruction, but rather irritation of tlie bowels. When the vessels of the constricted part are completely obstructed, and its nerves of sensation paralyzed, it becomes mortilied, the pain ceases, and the patient becomes easier and less restless. But the temperature falls suddeid}"; the pulse becomes cpucker, weaker, irregular, and intermittent; and the lu’eathing is more shallow, as the abdominal swelling- increases and prevents the descent of the diaphragm. The face is still anxious and pale, and becomes more and more livid, and covered with a cold, clammy sweat; the eyes him over, and are glassy; the voice is hollow; the tongue and mouth arc dry, cracked, and covered with a brown sordes, and sometimes an erujition forms on the lips. The breath is cold, and the smell of the patient cadaverous. All these signs indicate, and are speedily followe<l by, death. The post- mortem examination shows great distension and softening of the bowels above the strangulated part; congestion of all the peritoneal vessels, most intense in the neighborhood of the strangulation ; fre([uent and extensive ecchymosed ]>atches ; etfusion of pus, and often of putrid huid, Avith hakes of lymph, and ]iiore or less extensive adhesions of the coils of intestine to each other, and to the mesentery, omentum, and parietal peritoneum. These adhesions, usually soft and recent, are sometimes continuous near the site of strangulation, so that the loop of bowel often cannot Avitliout difficulty lie separated from the constricting part, and the intestinal Avails are so softened as to lie easil}' torn in attempting it. Sometimes an ulcerated opening may be found at or near the constriction, permitting the escape of the intestinal contents, Avhen a fecal smell tinges the putrid exhalations. The strangulated loop of intestine, or omentum, is dull-looking, black, soft to the touch and easily torn, habby, cedematous, and often si>otted Avith hakes of lymph, or sloughs, or Avith patches of black ecchymosed blood, or of greenish or ash-colore<l spots of sphacelation, easily broken doAvn. There is also mdema of the tissues in the neighborhood, and an em[ihysematous crisi)uess around. The sac in these cases contains dark colore<l blood, or fetid serum, sometimes fecal in smell from extravasation of the intestinal contents. General Diagnosis and Treatment of Strangulated Hernia.—The hrst <luty of the surgeon in all cases Avhere there are signs of obstruction or stran- gulation, is to examine carefully all the usual sites of abdominal rupture, and to continue his researches also, in case of not hnding a cause, into the unusual positions of hernia. In searching for the causes of symptoms of intestinal obstruction, it must not be forgotten that a hernial tumor may be found at one of the usual out- lets, and that yet it may not be the cause of the obstruction. In such a case, reduction liy the taxis, Avithout relief of symptoms, Avill prove that the cause must be sought for elseAvhere. If there be tAvm or more heriual tumors, the\' must be in turn reduced, and the effect upon the s3unptoms observed. If one of them be irreducible, it Avill probabl y be the offender. If strangulated, it Avill lie tense and tender, and the pain will I)e more or less referred to it. In all cases of multiple hernia, Avith syni[)toms of strangulation or obstruction, the irreducible hernia must be the first chosen for o})eration; and if all are irre- ducible, tlie one Avhich is hai-dest, most tense and tender, to Avhich pain is most referred, or Avhich came the earliest. Agaiti, a tumor, Avhich yet is not a liernia, may exist at one of the hernial o[)enings, and maj^ coexist Avith symptoms of intestinal disturbance, nausea, vomiting, and constipation. In the scrotum and region of inyuinal hernia^ such a tumor may be a cyst con- nected with the cord; a fatty tumor; a sarcocele, complicated Avith thicken- ing of the cord ; a large hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis; a hasmatocele ; a