440 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. ethmoid bone, separation of the dura mater at the anterior part of the base of the skull, copious effusion of blood, or severe concussion of the brain. Under such circumstances the patient may die from shock, from compression, or from inflammation. Reduction of the fractured bones if undertaken early, before swelling has masked the held of operation, is usually readily accomplished. External manipulation alone may succeed in replacing the fragments, but usually the combined method—the finger externally, and some small instrument, a straight steel director or a sound passed up into the nasal cavity—will be necessary. By these means the loose fragments are gently pressed back into position ; to hold them there, however, is no easy matter; the swelling of the soft parts has a constant tendency to depress them, unsupported, as they are, by any counter-force. The use of pledgets of lint or compresses within the nose, is deprecated by all modern writers, as practically useless and painful to the patient. Hamilton only advises them in cases where the amount of comminution of the bones is great. The same is true of canulas, hollow bou- gies, and the like. When the fragments exhibit a tendency to become depressed or to fall asunder, after they have been replaced. Gross recommends that they be held in position by a stout adhesive strip carried across the bi’idge of the nose from one cheek to the other, and Hamilton uses nicely adjusted com- presses made of soft cotton or lint, and secured upon the outside of the nose with delicate strips of adhesive plaster, or rollers, to accomplish the same result. Mason,^ in fractures of the nasal bones with depression of the bridge, and also of the nasal processes of the superior maxillte, recognizing the difficulty of holding the fragments in place after reposition, suggests the following method : pass an ordinary surgical needle, nickel-plated or gilded, and by means of a strong needle-holder, through the line of fracture of the nasal processes on either side. After the parts have been replaced in position, this affords not only a posterior support to the nasal bones, but acts as a tie-rod holding together the sides of the nasal arch. To complete the dressing, a small strip or ribbon of pure ruliber-bandage is placed over the bridge of the nose, liy puncturing either end on the head and point of the needle, giving the rubber sufficient tension to exert a gentle downward and lateral compression, but not enough to interfere with the circulation of the part, or to exert injurious pi’essure on the fragments. At the end of about the sixth day the needle may be witlKhTiwn, for the less serious forms of these fractures are repaired with great rapidity and without the interposition of }irovisional callus, and therefore the need of constant supervision and readjustment of the apparatus, which is required in whatever method he employed, will not long tax the surgeon. The amount of deformity sometimes resulting from apparently an insignifi- cant amount of injury, warrants, however, careful attention to both. To re- lieve the deformity resulting in old cases where fractures of the nasal hones have either been left unreduced, or where the result of treatment has been bad— no unusual occurrence—various methods have been suggested. That recom- mended by Adams in cases where the septum is also displaced, has been alluded to elsewhere. Weir,^ not satisfied with the results gained by Adams’s method of refracturing and readjusting these old fractures of the nasal bones with lateral displacement, and believing, as the result of several trials, tiiat the Adams forceps is too large at its end to be satisfactorily carried up under the nasal bones, and that the fracturing force is not ample enough, has devised a new procedure. This is nothing less than to perform an osteo- clastic operation, or, in more ordinary words, to make an incision—not directly ' Annals of the Anat. and Surg. Society. Brooklyn, March, 1880. ® Med. Record, March 13, 1880.