560 SURGERY OF THE TEETH AND ADJACENT PARTS. removing the decay, and in shaping the cavity so as to assist in the retention of the filling. All that portion about the orifice Avhich is decayed must he removed until sound structure is reached. It is prudent to remove all softened dentine from the cavity, if it can be done Avithout exposing the pulp, hut it is A^ery imprudent and unnecessary to remove all the softened dentine from ‘the bottom of the cavity, if in so doing pulp-exposure is liable to occur. If any decay be permitted to remain, it should be treated antiseptically before the filling is inti’oduced, and recalcifi- cation ot that portion may be' expected. When caries has advanced to the stage in Avhich the pulp is irritated or inflamed, graA^e difficulties may be en- countered. It is not yet settled AA'hat is the best treatment to pursue in all cases. The earlier practitioners made no attempt to save a tooth after the pulp had become exposed. It Avas sacrificed to the forceps. This ])lan has been folloAved for a generation by that of destrojdng the pulp, removing it, and filling the vacancy even to the apex of the roots. The destruction of the pulp is brought about, in almost all cases, by the application of arsenions acid. The usual course is to make a paste of the arsenic Avith sulphate of morphia and a little creasote; a minute quantity, less in bulk than a small pin’s head, is suffi- cient to devitalize a pulp; if, hoAvever, after tAvo or three days, sensation still remain, the application may be repeated. At as early a date as possible after sensation ceases, the pulp should be removed. Small Savuss broaches Avhich have been barbed, Avill enable the operator to do this in most cases of single-root teeth, but Avith the molars it is doubtful if every shred from each root is ahvays removed. After as thorough a removal as possible, the remains, if any, should be treated Avith creasote, and the caAuties immediately filled. Occasionally an operator may be found Avho Avill extirpate a pulp Avithout the previous apjAlication of arsenic, but the treatment, Avhile sanc- tioned by sound philosophy, is too heroic to be put into general practice. Within a feAV years, an outcry has been made against the devitalization of pulps, even after exposure ; or, if pulpitis has occurred, the practice of attempt- ing to restore them to health and usefulness is advocated. The method is to remoA^e Avith much care all extraneous matter from contact Avith the pulp, and cap it in such a Avay that the superincumbent filling Avill not impinge upon it. A favorite plan is to make a thin paste of oxyphosphate of zinc, gently bring it in contact, and allow it to set, before the filling of the main cavity is undertaken. But the results haAm been far from geneially success- ful, and it is still doubtful if it be the better practice in most cases to attempt to retain the pulp alive. Before the inti’oduction of any filling, the cavity should be made perfectly dry, and kept so during the entire operation. This can be done by taking a piece of bandage-rubber, punching a small hole in it, and slipping it over the tooth. Another important result is obtained by using this sheet-rubber eA^en before the excavation of the cavity is begun. Softened dentine is hyper- sensitive ; in sound dentine there is rarely any painful sensation from cutting, but decalcified dentine seems to be in a state of inflammation, and is easily irritated ; by using the rubber-dam, as before intimated, the cavity of decay can be made dry by absorltents and by a jet of Avarm air; the complete drying of the irritable dentine destroys its sensibility. This is found to be the most successful method of obtunding the sensitiveness of dentine, as almost every other means fails. Occasionally, an application of some escharotic ap])ears to act beneficially, but long experience has shoAvn these to be so unreliable that there is little use in resorting to them. Dentine is usually most sensi- tive Avhen it borders upon the enamel, and least so in larger cavities as decay approaches the pulp. Free access to cavities is necessary to insure success