380 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. opposite to it; its tissues are soft and doughy, and when indented hy a prohe recover themselves slowly. The h^’pertrophy seems to affect the tissues upon the interior surface .of the hone most decidedly, and the inferior meatus of the nose is often occluded hy the mass; the middle meatus may be overhung by the thickened membrane coming from the middle turbinated bone, hut to a less extent. The ffoor of the nostril is free, and usually the side of the septum. All parts are more or less decked, unless recently cleansed, ivith thick, tenacious mucus. Posteriorly^ hy the aid of the rhinoscopic mirror, the posterior extremities of both middle and inferior turbinated hones, especially the latter, will he seen to present peculiar and characteristic appearances. The hypertrophy of the tissues is much more marked usually than is the case in the anterior nares, and the parts are covered by a thickened mucous membrane, of a whitish-gray color, and with an irregular, corrugated and fissured surface; the extremity of the inferior turbinated bone, indeed, resembles an irregular- shaped tumdr, lying on the floor of the nostril, and its size may he so great as to nearly, perhaps completely, occlude the posterior orifice of the naris. The condition here described may exist in varying degrees in both nasal cavities, and the obstruction in the passages that it causes, is still further increased by the thickening of the tissues upon both sides of the nasal sep- tum, especially in its upper portions. The parts at the vault of the pharynx have been alluded to both in respect to their peculiar natui’e and structure, made up as they are mainly of glandu- lar tissue, and in reference to the fact that tliey are always implicated, to a greater or less extent, in any case of chronic inflammation of the nasal jiassages, of some duration ; it remains to he added that the physical results of a chronic inflammation of the “ pharyngeal tonsil,” as it is termed, are peculiai’. The glandulge are involved to a much greater extent than the mucous membrane, and as a result of their excessive hypertrophy, added to and increased by the hyperplasia of their connective tissue and the increase in number and size of the bloodvessels, associated with the thickening of the mucous and submucous structures, a veritable tumor or tumors are de- veloped, which have received the specific name of adenoid vegetations of the vault of the 'pharynx^ and are often treated of as a separate and distinct affection.^ The size, configuration, and extent of these vegetations, or adenoid hypertrophies, are variable; they may exist only to such a degree as to cause a slight elevation of the tissues at the vault of the pharynx, and to obliterate its concavity; they may stud the entire pharyngeal roof, from side to side, hang over the posterior orifices of the nostrils, and completely hide the pharyn- geal orifice of the Eustachian tube; the masses ma}’' he fimbriated, hang in grape-like clusters, or be cylindrical. I have seen them so large that the entire upper pharynx was occluded and occupied hy the tumor, and that the lower edge of the mass was readily brought into view, through the mouth, by simply drawing the soft palate slightly forwards. Such excessive condi- tions, however, are unusual; generally, a rhinoscopic examination will show the rounded vault of the pharynx, and occasionally its upper lateral walls, to be occupied l)y a thickened and nodulated mass projecting strongly here and there from the underlying bony surface in the form of longitudinal ridges, and traversed in various directions by seams and fissures. As a rule they appear as flattish cushions, and only occasionally present themselves as small, isolated and rounded masses, or are gathered into “ worm-like” clusters. The mass here described tapers off' as it approaches the middle pharynx, until ' W. Meyer, IIospitals-Tidende, Nov. 4 og 11,1868. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. London, 1870. Lowenberg, Les Tumeurs adenoides du Pharynx Nasal. Paris, 1879.