477 CHEILOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. sutures. Whichever of these methods may be adopted for supplying de- ficiencies of the lower lip, a new vermilion border should be made, when it is practicable, by uniting the mucous membrane with the skin by means of fine sutures. When this cannot be accomplished, the free border of the lip may be invested with skin, if this material can be obtained for the purpose. The operations of Dr. Buck for the transplantation of a portion of the upper lip to supply a deficiency of the lower lip, or of a portion of the lower lip to supply a deficiency of the upper lip, are described in his Contributions to Reparative Surgery, published in 1876.^ He first describes two preliminary operations for the removal of extensive disease of the lower lip. The first of these preliminary operations is performed by including the diseased mass between two incisions extending downward and inward from a point on each side near the angle of the mouth, and meeting in the median line of the neck beneath the chin. The mucous membrane is then freely divided on each side at its reflection from the cheek to the jaw, and the margins of the wound are drawn together, and united by pin sutures. The second preliminary operation, which is adapted to cases in which the extent of the disease is so great as to forbid the first operation, consists in the exsection of the tumor by two vertical incisions extending dowmvai’ds from the commissures of the lips, and a horizontal incision extending from one of the vertical incisions to the other, lielow the diseased mass. The horizontal incision is then extended to the right and left, to within a finger’s breadth of the angle of the jaw, and thence curved upward and a little forward over the masseter muscle to the extent of about two inches. The flaps are then dis- sected from the subjacent parts, and their edges brought together in the median line, and secured by pin sutures. The vacant spaces behind the posterior vertical incisions may be allowed to heal by granulation, or the integument may be dissected up from the parts behind, and united by sutures with the posterior margins of the flaps. After the healing of the wounds made by either of these preliminary operations, the mouth is much disfigured, the angles being much approximated and the upper lip being redundant, and overhanging the lower lip which is extremely contracted. The secondary operation, which is designed to transfer the redundant portions of the upper lip, so as to relieve the contracted state of the lower lip, and thus to restore the symmetry of the mouth, is performed as follows ; A point is selected about a finger’s breadtli below and a little without the angle of the montli on each side, and this point is marked by inserting a small pin through the skin. Another pin is inserted on each side at the junction of the vermilion border of the upper lip with the skin, about one-fifth of the distance from the angle of the mouth to the median line of the lip; and a third pin on each side is inserted into the integument of the cheek, about an inch and a half above and with- out the angle of the mouth. The points indicated liy the first and third pins are then to be united by an incision through the entire thickness of tlie cheek, and, in like manner, the points indicated by the second and third pins. A triangular flap is thus formed, with its base towards the angle of the mouth, and from the point indicated by the first pin a vertical incision is made down to the base of the jaw. The integument in this region being in a state of great tension, the edges recede and form a space for the reception of the triangular flap with its apex towards the base of the jaw, and its base, including a portion of the vermilion border of the upper lip, supplying the deficiency of the corresponding side of the lower lip. When this operation is completed on both sides, it greatly improves the configuration of the mouth. ' Contributions to Reparative Surgery, cliap. v. pp. 20-30. New York, 1870.