INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. 73 Ibid., vol. ii. p. 170. Op. cit., vol. i. p. 307. eight deaths took place out of one hundred and thii’ty-two cases where the foreign body entered through the frontal hone. Fifty-eight wounds of the parietal showed twenty-seven deaths and thirty-one recoveries. The occipital bone was penetrated twenty-three times, with sixteen deaths and seven recoveries. The temporal hones were penetrated in thirty-one cases, with twelve deaths and nineteen recoveries. Orbital wounds were very fatal, only one recoveiy taking place out of eighteen cases. Four deaths took place out of five cases of penetration of the sphenoid bone. I admit that a penetrating wound of any special cranial bone does not exclude injury of portions of the encephalon far distant from that immediately subjacent to the perforation of the skull, yet, as in many cases tlie foreign body was removed, only the brain contiguous to the point of penetration must have been compromised, and I therefore consider Dr. Wharton’s analysis of considerable value in determining the relative mortality of wounds of ditferent parts of the brain. Indeed, it is only in accord with what the physiology of the different portions of the encephalon ivould indicate. Treatment.—From what has lieen said as to the increased chances of recovery, and as to its completeness, after removal of foreign bodies lodged in the brain, when contrasted with the results of non-interference, it must he clear that whenever an extraneous suljstance can be removed without too much destructio]! of tissue, it should he done. The dithculty of locating a foreign body in tlie brain is very great, owing to the ease with which the in’ohe gets out of the track of the vulneratiug l)ody by penetrating tlie healthy cerebral substance. Great care should therefore be exercised in the use of tlie ordinary probe. A soft—not tlexihle—catheter may be'used with compara- tive safety; by resorting to this instrument, Larrey successfully detected and removed bullets in the two following cases. A soldier received a imisket-ball wound in the middle of the frontal hone near the sinus, which passed hetween the cranium and the dura mater, and along the longitudinal sinus to the occii>ital suture. It produced all the sym[)toms of compression. Larrey, inferring the location of the ball from tlie patient’s com|)laints of pain at a point dia- metrically opposite to the wound, introduced a gum-elastic sound until he touclied the bullet. By measurement, the portion of the cranium heneatii wliich the hall lay was exposed, a large trephine was applied, pus was evacuated, the hall was removed from hetween the dura mater and brain, and recovery ensued.^ A hall ]ienetrated the left jiarietal eminence of a soldier, passed obliquely along its inner surface, and was ari-ested about one centimeti-e from the occipital suture. Tlie presence of a slight eccliymosis near this spot, the symptoms, and the employment of a small soft sound, induced Larrey to lay hare the hone, wlien he found a small lissure, applied a large trephine, and removed a piece of the hidlet. The [latient did well for five days, and then died of a fever.'■* I7ow of course I (h) not advise the surgeon in every case of lodgment of a foreign body in the lirtiin, to imitate Larrey, hut I simjily relate the cases to show what skill, boldness, and good fortune will sometimes effect, and to prove that ap})arently perforating wounds of the brain itself may Ije only so in seeming, so that a careful examination in suspected cases may reveal a more favorable condition admitting of operative interference, which may turn tlie scale towards the side of recovery. As already remarked, a silver jirobe should be used, if at all, with the utmost care; it is better to resort to a small, soft rubber, or French, sound or catheter, and even with such an instrument, to examine with judgment, and not make persistent efforts to locate the foreign body, since patients may recover witli permanent lodgment