52 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Syniploms.—These are essentially those of apoplexy, such as marked coma, etc., with perhaps convulsions in a few cases. Treatment.—This, as in apoplexy, must be purely medical, and need hardly be further enlarged upon. AVounds and Ruptures of the Great Venous Sinuses.—Those most com- monly injured are the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses. The mere shock of a violent bloiv upon the cranium may lacerate these vessels, but they are more frequently ruptured by separation of sutures. Penetration by the fragment of a depressed, comminuted fracture is the usual cause of wounds of the great sinuses, but penetrating wounds of the skull by pointed instru- ments or bullets may also injure these venous channels. I am led to thus specially treat of these injuries, on account of the general impression that the hemorrhage following them is usually fatal. So far is this from being true, that Pott actually bled successfully from the longitudinal sinus. AVarner, Pott, and Lister, report cases where wound of this sinus was readily recovered from. In all such cases, either the application of the trephine or the elevation of fragments has given free access to the wounded vessel. AV^here the opposite conditions obtain, a fatal hemorrhage does at times occur. I am cognizant of one case where a prominent surgeon, while operating for a comminuted depressed fracture of the occiiiital bone, withdrew a pointed fragment which had been driven some distance beneath the sound skull, thus plugging a distant wound of the lateral sinus. Death resulted in a few minutes from the uncontrollable liemorrhage. I have examined the speci- mens from a fracture of the vertex, where the patient similarly perished upon the withdrawal of a depressed fragment. In basal fractures the hemorrhage from rupture of the sinuses may be very profuse. Thus in one case reported, it Avas estimated that between thirty and forty ounces were lost from the ear in the course of a few hours. Treatment.—AVhere this injury is suspected in a case of compound fracture, from the propinquity of the lesion to the course of a great sinus, I would suggest that the trephine-cut, or removal of bone necessaiy to elevate the fragments, be so ])lanned as to give free access to the sinus sliould it be found Avounded. This can usually be safely done, for the injury Avill have probably separated and depressed the Fig. 830. dura mater so as to keep it clear from the teeth of the in- strument. In nearly all the cases Avhere the Avound has been accessilde, the a})plication of a little dry lint, Avith the pres- sure of the linger, has at once arrested the Hoav. Lister filled an opening in the longitudinal sinus Avith a bunch of catgut ligature, and J. II. Brinton seized the lips of a Avound of the lateral sinus Avith forceps, and tied it Avith fine silk. The only Avound of a sinus which has occurred in my OAvn prac- tice, Avas that of the right late- B, opening made by ball in bony and membranous wall of late- sillUS fl'Om a Small oistol- ral sinus ; DD, portions of dura mater and sinus walls ; L, lateral l.„n T 1 j? I j-V „ sinus with poHion of its membranous wall removed ; P, portio ^ SjlSpeCted it from the dura and portio mollis of seventli nerve. OI tX ilo^V OJt dIoOcIj