939 SUTURE OF THE INTESTINES. points of suture, and threaded each in an ordinary sewing-needle. Having brought the edges of the wound together, lie passed the needles directly through without any obliquity, about one-quarter of an inch apart. When all were put through, he removed the needles and tied together the threads of each side separately, forming two bundles, which were then twisted together into one. Thus the wounded portion of the bowel was puckered, and the points of suture approximated : it was considered that these puckers would prevent the edges of the M’ound from being separated, and would cause their mutual reunion without adhesion to any other part. Tlie ends were lixed exter- nally. c. Method of Reyhard (1827)—Keybard used a thin and polished, oval plate of deal, one and a half inches long by three-quarters of an inch wide. He suspended it by loops of thread, wdiicli traversed its middle, the threads being about two lines apart, and each end of the several threads being then inserted into a needle. This plate was passed into the bowel, and so placed that its greatest diameter corresponded to that of the wound, and was maintained there by passing the needles through the intestine about one-quarter of an inch from tlie edges. The two ends of each thread were then with- drawn and threaded together in a curved needle, which was carried tlirough the integu- ments from within outward, about one-quarter of an inch from the external wound. Tiie threads were then held by an assistant, and the bowel reduced, taking care to have sufficient traction to retain the wound of the intestine applied against the abdomi- nal parietes. The threads wei’e then laid over a roll of linen and placed parallel to the internal lip of the wound. About two days after, tlie threads were cut and the plate of wood passed by stool. d. Method of Johert The edges of the wound are turned in wdth a needle, and threads passed transversely tlirough the borders, keeping the serous membranes in con- tact, and avoiding protrusion of the mucous coat in the intervals ; then the tlireads ai-e collected in one bundle and brought outside, as in Ledran’s method, or as many points maile of the interrupted suture as there are threads. e. Common interrupted suture, without any modification, as many points of suture being made as are thought requisite. Dr. Gross made fourteen experiments, one only of which was fatal after complete division of the tube. In some, tlie stitches were four or five lines apart. In ten, the sutures were cut short, and in all they either passed or were in progress of passing into the cavity of the bow’el. He remarks on the great rapidity with which single stitches are detached, when compared with the glover’s suture. The latest period at which they were found adherent was the seventeenth day, and in two experiments they were detached on the seventli and eleventh days respec- tively. He quotes the following cases on record, where the suture was used, five suc- cessful and two fatal. The two fatal cases are quoted from Sir A. Cooper on Hernia. Th ree successful cases occurred in America; one is referred to in the Kdin. IMed. and Surg. Journ., vol. xii. p. 27 ; and the fifth case is detailed in the Med.-Chir. Review, vol. XX. p. 182. However, there are several other remarkable instances—one in the Med.-Chir. Review, vol. vi. p. .757, a case of recovery under the care of Dr. 'Washburn ; and another detailed by Dr. Fuchsius, in the Journ. der pract. Heilk., Februar, 1825, where he diagnosed intussusception, cut into tlie abdomen, drew out the invaginated bowel, cut into the gut, disengaged the invaginated portion, which was two feet in length, and united the wound by sutures, the patient recovering in fourteen days. Dief- fenbacli cut off three inches of a strangulated bowel, and reunited the gut by the inter- rupted suture; the patient remained well for several weeks, and died of other internal strangulation. The wound was found cicatrized. II. The Unintekuupted Suture a. Ordinary Glover's Suture The two edges of the wound are brought together and held at either end ; a needle armed with waxed thread is then [las-sed obliquely through the edges, beginning from about a line from one ot the angles. The thread is drawn through to within four or five inches of its extremity, and tlie needle again repassed in the same way, traversing the wound with the same obliquity, passing the thread over as in the whipping-stitch ; this to be done as often as is requisite to complete the union of the wound, taking care to leave three or four inches of thread at the termination. The two ends of the suture are confided to an assistant, and the intestine returned into the abdomen, when these ends of the threads