STRABISMUS. 267 fully passed under the conjunctiva next the cornea, avoiding piercing the sclera, and brought out about three mni, from the centre of the upper margin of the cornea; the thread is drawn through, and the needle is removed. Then the other is secured and passed in the same way below. These needles Fig. 87G. being removed, and the threads cut otf close to the first needle, the surgeon is ready to tie the knots. The tendon is now field by two threads, wliich are to lie tied, one liy the operator, and the other by his assistant. They must be gently and evenly tightened, and firmly knotted. Before tying the threads, it is better to remove the speculum. In this way the tendon is drawn firmly forwards and s[iread out over the denuded sclera. If the an- tagonist muscle is much contracted, its tendon should be divided, after the threads are placed and before tying them. In this way the effect may lie greatly increased. Then the amount of advancement may lie intensified by piercing the tendon farther back towards the caruncle, for the internus, and towards the equator for the externus. In very high deviations, a piece of the tendon may be sacrificed before knotting the threads. In the extreme cases to wdiich this thread operation has been usually restricted, it is desirable to adopt every means of increasing the eflect, and even then a second advancement may be necessary. In one of the worst cases Avhich I have ever seen, produced by tenotomy of the internus twenty years before, a second advancement was made a year after the first, and the result was admirable. The operation having been ccrnipleted, the patient should be put quietly to bed, with the eyes bandaged, and cold water dressings should lie used for a few hours. The next day the eye may be gently openc<l, but not allowed to move much, and then closed. At the end of forty-eight hours of quiet, the threads may be carefully removed, but the eyes must be immediately rebandaged, and kept so for several days longer till the adhesions are firm. The success of this very important operation depends largely upon the absolute stillness of the eyes for tlic first four days. As the method of advancement is more perfected and made easier, its application will become more general. In moderate cases of strabismus, and in all cases of insufficiency requiring surgical treatment, the muscular balance may be restored liy advancing the elongated muscle instead of setting back the contracted one. The dangers of muscular insuffi- ciency, sinking of tlie caruncle, and unsightly exophthalmus, will be thus entirely avoided. The only instruments needed in this operation more than in an ordinary strabotomy, are the three needles. A doulde hook, as devised by Be AVecker, facilitates the operation, but is not indispensable. I recently made a thread advancement of the externus in a young medical student, lie first liad very troublesome insufficiency of the interni, for the relief of which I enqdoyed divisioji of the externi, first of one, and, a few days after, of the other. Relief was only partial, and tlie externi were divided a second time. Then convergence with distressing diplopia followed. All objects beyond eight inches were doubled, with homonymous images, and any- thing held nearer than four inches was seen double, with crossed images. I