INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 268 then made a careful advancement of one externus, Avith complete relief. In such a case again, I would advance the intern us in the iii’st place. There are but few accidents possible after a strabotomy. There may, in rare cases, be profuse hemorrhage, Avhich is easily controlled by cold com- presses, and which does not interfere with the result. Very rarely, endocap- sulitis with some suppuration occurs. "VVitli blunt scissors, used Avith ordi- nary care, there is no danger of cutting through the sclera. A fcAv times I have seen pretty severe inflammation, and marginal ulceration of tlie cornea, follow an advancement, but they were ahvays controllable, and resulted in no damage to sight. Diseases of the Eyelids. Blepharitis.—Inflammation of any part of the eyelid is called blepharitis. Having regard to the texture first and chiefly involved, it is called blepharitis ciliaris, blepharitis marginalis, or simply ble])haritis. All serious inflamma- tion of the conjunctiva is attended by more or less blepharitis. Erysipelas of the face is apt to invade' the lids, as elscAvliere described. Abscesses of these jjarts, their importance and special treatment, have been considered in connec- tion Avith injuries of the orbit. The Avorst cases of ectropium folloAv deep and extensive burns of the lids, or sloughing from erysipelas. A reserved prognosis in such cases is alAA^ays Avise. The common stye is often attended by great pain and alarming sAvelling, but is easily diagnosed by a point of greatest tenderness to pressure. It discharges spontaneously or by puncture, like a furuncle, and soon recovers. A succession of styes and boils indicates bad assimilation, and is best treated by constitutional tonics. If a costive habit be present, it must be relieved by laxatives. Locally, continued Avarm poulticing is all that is recpiired. Syphilitic and cancroid ulcerations of the eyelids are always alarming. They readily lead to destruction of tissue, expos- ure of tlie eye, ectropium, painful loss of sight, and even loss of life. Epitheli- oma and other destructive processes in the upper lid are vastlj- more disas- trous than in the loAver. While the entire loAver lid may be destroyed, or removed by operation, Avithout serious deformity or danger to the integrity of the eye, a very small defect in the upper lid both excites remark and becomes grave in its consequences. Epithelioma of the eyelids requires prompt and radical operative treatment. It is in these cases especially, that the melan- choly effects of the caustic applications, so much in vogue among mercenary c[uacks, are Avitnesscd. As soon as a syphilitic sore is detected on the ej-e- lids, antisyphilitic treatment must be heroically adopted, and no operation resorted to, except perhaps at a later period, for Silastic puri)Oses. The most common form of inflammation is that AAduch is limited to the free edges of the lids, and is called blepharitis marginalis, or ciliaris. It is confined mainly to scrofulous children, seldom occurring for the first time in adults, except as a complication of dacryocystitis. The exclusive Auctims of this disease, strumous children, are likely to have also phl^mtenular kera- titis, Avith eczematous eruptions on the face and scalp, behind the ears, and in and around the nose, and enlargement of the glands of the neck. The children of indigent and dissipated parents of dirty habits, are the most frequent sufferers, and their successful treatment is almost inqjossible. The diagnosis of this disease is A^ery simple. The redness and sAvelling of the margins of the lids are not striking, and often very partial. But more or less scabbing in the region of the eyelashes is a constant phenomenon. Su])puration in the individual liair follicles, and the formation of crusts by drying, that unite the lashes in tufts and sometimes accumulate for months.