211 INJURIES OF THE EYEBALL. other eye is perfeet, with no evidences of sympathetic irritation, it is useless to mutilate the patient out of foolish fear of danger. On the other hand, even a partially seeing eye, after an injury, should be sacrificed without hesitation if alarming symptoms of danger to the other eye have set in. In destructive injuries of the eye, with evidences of a concealed foreign body, or even without, it is often a wise precaution, to enucleate as soon as possible after the fatal injury, before violent reaction has set in. In that way the patient is saved from protracted and severe suffering, as well as from danger to the fellow eye. But even after severe panophthalmitis has set in, in case tenderness to light, cloudiness of vision, glimmering, and other alarming s^miptoms are developed, I should resort to removal of the offend- ing eye. I have done it several times, with none of the fatal consequences described and feared by Von Graefe and so many others. While I would warn against the extreme view that every blind eye, whether from disease or injury,"ought to be enucleated, and that any trouble that comes to the fellow eye is presumably sympathetic, I would still emphasize the fact, that awj blind eye^ ut any time may become a source of risk. This is particularly true if an artificial eye is worn over an old, atrophied globe, especially one in which the cornea is preserved. Even after enucleation, the wearing of an artificial eye has, in rare cases, given rise to sympathetic developments that have sub- sided soon after discontinuing its use. In many hundred cases I have never seen this result, nor have I ever lost a patient from the removal of the eye. The operation of enucleation is very simple. The instruments required are a pair of strabismus scissors (Fig. 875), one or two strabismus hooks (Fig. 874), a pair of toothed forceps, a stop speculum (Fig. 860), and a pair of stout, blunt-pointed scissors, curved sharply on the fiat. An assis- tant must be ready with a few soft, clean sponges. As to anaesthetics, I generally give tliem, but often operate without, where the patient [>re- fers it and has good self-control. The operation is a little more tedious and painful than a tenotomy, but can lie easily borne without ether. The patient, whether under ether or not, should lie on the back and l)e kept quiet if possible. The speculum introduced, the conjunctiva is seized near the cornea, raised, and rapidly divided close around the cornea. After the first incision a strabismus hook may be passed rapidly round the cornea under the conjunctiva, raising and making it tense so that the scissors may divide it regularly and quickly. This done, the forceps }>ick up the con- junctiva above, Avliile the scissors detacli it over the insertion of the supe- rior rectus. The hook is slid under and the tendon severed close to the sclera. The same is then quickly done for tlie three other recti tendons. The speculum is now removed, and the eyeball sprung between the lids, which are pushed back. If any trouble is experienced in this manoeuvre, it is due to the fact that a tendon may partially or completely have escaped division, or that the globe is too large to pass tlie commissure. In the latter case, the stout, curved scissors, closed and passed behind the glolje, may aid in prying it fonvanl. This done, the index finger of the left hand is passed in behind the globe, springing it more forwards, and rendering tlie optic nerve tense. The nerve is thus felt and held securely by the index finger which guides the scissors, introduced frcmi the opposite side. They are passed in, closed, till tlie point is felt by the finger. Then o]»ening and push- ing them a little turther, the nerve is snipped otf between the finger and the sclera. It is hardly possil>le in this way to fail in severing the nerve at once. It yields with a jerk, ami the ball, coming forwards, is seized by tlie left hand, drawn out, and the two oblique muscles detached with the scissors, using great care not to cut tlie lids in this last act. The moment the eye is removed I plunge the left index to the apex of the orbit, and make rather firm pressure