179 ANATOMY OF THE EYE. to the efforts of this muscle, and the patient becomes presbyopic and has to use glasses for reading, except when myopic. The popular notion" that Hattening of the cornea is tlie cause of presbyopia has no foundation. The lens is a douljle convex bodjg held in its position close behind the iris, by the suspensory ligament and adhesions of its poste- rior capsule with the hyaloid fossa. In young persons it is soft, elastic, and colorless ; in advanced years it l>ecomes of an amber color, and hard like a piece of diy cheese. The anterior surface of the lens is less convex than the posterior. The thickness of the lens in its axis is 3.7 mm., and its equato- rial diameter is from 9 to 10 mm. The firmer, central part of the lens is called the nucleus, and the outer layers the cortical substance. It is composed of numerous layers like an onion, the layers being formed by individual, ser- rated lens-fibres. The lens is closely invested by a capsule, of which the anterior portion is thicker and more resistant than the posterior. It is struc- tureless and perfectly clear, and resists chemical reagents in a remarkable way. The medium of connection between the lens and the capsule is a thin layer of cells from which the lens-fibres take their origin, and through which its nutrition is accomplished. How the lens is held in its position has been already stated. Filling up all the interior of the eye, back of the lens, is the vitreous humor, or corpus vitreurn. This is of the consistence of jelly, hangs together in a mass when lifted, and is absolutely transparent. Hence the difficulty in studying its structure, and the various views in regard to it, erroi- being sometimes caused by the chemical reagents used in hardening it. Li(piefaction of the vitreous takes place soon after death, and, in many }tathological conditions, during life. In the extraction of cataract, a healthy vitreous greatly dimin- ishes the risks of accident, and should be ascertained as certainly as possible. In the process of diseases of the choroid, especially, the vitreous is liable to become in part or entirely disorganized. In that case it is turbid, with float- ing corpuscles, and interferes with satisfactory ophthalmoscopic examination. Muscles attached to the Eyeball.—Tlie eyeball, so balanced in the orbit as to yield to the least muscular force, is rotated in the various directions by six muscles. Tlie four recti, originating by a common tendon at the 0}»tic foramen, passing directly forwards so as to embrace the globe and fasten themselves upon it, form two pairs. The siqierior and inferior oblique constitute the third pair. The favorable way in whicli the eye is ]»ivoted in the socket, and acted on by these muscles, is well seen in Fig. 851. Of the four recti, the internal is the strongest and the su|»erior the weakest. Before their firm insertion into the sclera, the four recti become tendinous, the width and situation of tlieir insertions l)eing easily seen in the cut. T1 le flattened tendons, the relative distance of their insertions from the cornea, and the peculiar relations of the tendons to the capsule of Tenon, through which they must pass to reach the sclerotic, have l)een very critically studied since the introduction of tenotomy for the relief of squint. The most trustworthy measurements (Merkel) of their points of attachment from the cornea, are: for the rectus internus 0.5 mm., rectus externus 0.8 mm., rectus siq)crior 8.0 mm., rectus irderior 7.2 mm. The width of the tcialons varies from 7 mm. to 9 mm. These tendons, 1)cfore their insertions, send numerous fllaments of connective tissue to the sclera, and also troin their edges, tlius adding firmness and Ineadth to their proper tendinous attachments. The globe is embraced by the capsule of Tenon, which is loosely connected to the sclera, and in which the eye rotates. It blends with the conjunctiva, and ends near the margin of the cornea. Behind, it is connected with the ball at the seat of penetration of the ciliary nerves and vessels, not reaching quite