HYDATIDS. 1049 cysts are numerous, and suppuration may be expected. The state of health of the patient, the size of the cyst, the admission of air, incpiisitive manipu- lation after tapping, and any roughness or injudicious movement, may excite suppuration ; but of all conditions the two in which puncture is most likely to be followed by the formation of pus, are, when the tumor is of large size, and when there is a large proportion of secondary cysts. IX THE Middlesex Hospital since 1870. Treatment, with dates. Result. Stay iu liospital. Post-mortem report. Discharged at own request. 8 days. Relieved. 12 days. Discharged at own request. 51 days. The girtli of the abdomen having increased, tlie tumor was tapped on April 9, and 46 oz. of purulent fluid withdrawn, containing a number of hydatid cysts. A gum-elastic catheter was introduced, and the cavity washed out. The canula was retained. Tlie liver after tapping returned almost to its normal size. April 19, the tube was removed, and matter allowed to drain through the wound. The cavity was washed out daily. The opening closed in 24 hours after the tube was removed. Convales- cent. 72 days. • Recovered. 130 d’ys. Sept. 7. The tumor was tapped and 24^ oz. of straw-colored fluid withdravvn. The fluid was found to contain oholesterine scales, fat glob- ules, and albumen. Discharged at own request. Much im- proved. 27 days. On admission a small incision was made over seat of puncture of a few days ago, and a large tro- car and canula introduced. Nothing escaped through this, and a probe when introduced was found to enter a large smooth cavity, a depth ; of about eight inches. Wlien the probe \vas , withdrawn, opaque and transparent membran- ous shreds of a jelly-like consistency escai>ed, but not sufficiently fast, so a large incision was made, and tlie cavity cleared out and washed out. A drainage-tube was inserted. The cavity was washed out daily, with increasingly less discliarge. lie left the liospital with a catheter in, but on showing himself again on .Jan. 7, 1878, the tube had then been out for a fortnight, and the opening had quite closed with a de- pressed cicatrix. The bulging in the side had entirely disajipeared. Cured. 77 days.