510 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. plication which is unnecessary in the majority of cases, as showui by Mr. Morrant Baker.^ A thread being passed through eacli side of the tip of the tongue, and the mouth gagged, the operator divides the frienum linguae and subjacent muscles with curved scissors, ■which he runs along the floor of the mouth on the diseased side, so as to divide the mucous membrane near the jaw, as far back as the disease reaches. Taking one thread in his left hand, and the other being held b}^ an assistant, the operator then with a blunt- pointed straight bistoury divides the tongue strictly in the median plane, being particularly careful to divide the tough corium of the dorsal aspect well beyond the disease. Any bleeding vessel on the surface of the section is easily seen and secured, and with the fore-finger the operator then tears through any remaining muscular structure of the tongue or sublingual tissues, so as to isolate the half of the tongue to be removed. The wire loop of the ecraseiir can then be easily slipped over the apex of the tongue to the base, through which, if necessary, needles may be inserted, and the diseased half of the organ removed as far hack as may be desired. Should the disease be so extensive as to recpiire removal down to the hyoid bone, it may be neces- sary to resort to the plan suggested by the late Mr. Collis, of Dublin, viz. to lay open the cheek by a horizontal incision carried from the angle of the mouth. This ■would of course bring the parts more thoroughly into vie^w^, but with the drawback of increased hemorrhage and permanent deformity. By employing an ecraseur with the end slightly curved, I have been able, in several cases in which I have removed half the tongue, to dispense with any external incision. liemoval o f the lohole breadth o f the tong ue may be readily performed with the kraseur when the disease involves only the anterior portion of the organ, but when it extends further back, free division of the sublingual tissues, as recom- mended by Sir James Paget, will be necessary, in order to allow of the satis- factory application of the wire-loop to the base of the organ. Mr. Baker has recommended that, in cases recpiiring removal, the tongue should be split, and the halves removed by two ecraseurs simultaneously, and both methods are for all practical purposes identical. ISTunneley’s method of applying the kraseur for removal of the entire tongue is as follows: An incision is made in the median line, between the chin and the hjmid bone, and is carried up between the genio-hyo-glossi muscles into the mouth, the chain of an kraseur being then carried through this. The base of the tongue being next transfixed from above doAvnwards by three pins, the chain is passed behind them, and the kraseur is worked from beneath the chin. The objection to this method is that the tongue is necessarily cut oblicpiely, notwithstanding the use of the pins. Its advantage is that a useful drain for discharges is maintained from the floor of the mouth. Mr. Barwell has modified Nunneley’s^ method hy making a small supra-hyoid wound, and carrying a thread into the mouth by means of a handled needle much farther back than in the older method. The needle is made to enter the mouth close to the last molar tooth on each side, and the wire of the kraseur is drawn by the thread through the supra-hyoid wound and around the base of the tongue. A handled needle is then passed from before backwards through the tongue at the point where the section is to be made, and the wire slipped behind it. When the tongue has been thus divided transversely, a second kraseur is applied in the mouth to divide the sublingual tissues which have been left. Mr. Barwell claims for this method that it leaves a painless stump, because the lingual-gustatory nerves are divided close to the loiver jaw ; but this result is not peculiar to this par- ticular operation, Avhich does not appear to possess any special advantages over 1 Lancet, vol. i. 1880. 2 Lancet, April 19,1879.