SUTUKE OF THE INTESTINES. 943 could not succeed in insinuating the upper part of the divided bowel into the lower one, on account of the contraction of the two ends of the intestinal tube and the smallness of the canal. Dr. T. Smith, of Pliiladelphia, also tried this method, but could not succeed. He divided the intestine of a dog transversely, and having inserted a piece of candle into tliat portion wliich was supposed to be the uppermost, he endeavored to introduce tlie superior within the inferior, but the ends became so inverted that it was found utterly impossible to succeed. Ilennen ajiplied the glover’s suture to the two ends thus invagi- nated. Vermale enveloped the ends of the intestine in a fold of the mesentery, which he comprised in the suture. Ritcli placed in the bowel a varnished card rolled up ; then invaginated and passed a loop of thread through the two ends of the intestine, and the cylinder of card at the same time, tied the threads two or three inches from the intestine, and secured them in the external wound. .Jobert traversed the anterior part of the u[)per end with a silk thread armed with two needles, and then passed these into the lower end from within outwards, when by o-entle traction, he introduced one end of the bowel inside the other. This method appears to have succeeded in a very small number ot cases. Boyer performed it in one case, where he had to diviile tlie mesentery and tie seven or eight vessels, but the patient died from extravasation ; in anotlier case lie could not complete the opera- tion. Velpeau saw another case in which this procedure was attempted at the II6[)i- tal St. Louis, but in which the patient died on the following day. 1\IM. Lavielle, Chemery-Hale, Schmid, and some others, also relate instances of cure. An interesting, successful case is recorded by Dr. Pilcher,^ where the ileum was divided diagonally across, with two inches of the mesentery. Invagination was etiected, the lower end being inserted in the up[)er, and maintained by three points of suture. The patient was well on the nineteenth day. There are three great ditliculties to be overcome in this operation :— (1) To distinguish the upper end of the intestine from the lower. The only means pro[)Osed by Louis is to retain botli ends outside, and administer a purgative ; if the wound be in the large intestine, an enema is best. (2) To insert the upper end into the lower. The dilliculty to be overcome is the con- traction of tlie lower end of the bowel, which may be avoided by seizing the princi[ial diameters at their four extremities, with four forceps ; then the u[iper end is to be grasped four or five inches aViove its division, and properly com[)ressed and then invaginated. (3) A mucous memltrane is aii|iosed to a serous one, and cannot unite with it. How- ever, the union may take [dace by false membranes, and by means of adhesions with tlie surrounding [larts. b. Method of Reybard.—The surgeon first incises the mesentery to the extent of a few lines; he afterwards [lasses, a little above the wound, a thread, one eml of which remains within the canal, while the other hangs outside. According to Reybard, two nooses thus adjusted will be found suflicient, that is, one on each extremity of tlie antero- posterior diameter of the gut. By the aid also of a needle we are enabled to [lass tlie inner extremity of each thread from within outwards, and througli the lower end of the intestine, in order to invaginate the two [lortions methodically, and to terminate by fastening each point of suture with a knot. Although Reybard has successfully per- formed the operation, he yet unreservedly condemns it, and [loints out its disadvantages and danijers in his Memoir on Artificial Anus. HI. Union uy Contact of the Sekods Surfaces.—a. Method of Johert (1824). •lobert conceived the idea of [uitting the serous membranes in contact by means of a new kind of invagination. The up[>er end being well recognized, the patient is laid on his back, with the muscles of his abdomen as relaxed as [lossible, and the mesentery of each end is dissected off to the extent of nearly one-third of an inch. There is always some flow of blood, which need not be stopjied, as it is an obstacle to inflamma- tory action. But if the hemorrhage is too abundant, tem[iorary ligatures are aiijilied, and removed after the o[ieration. This first stc}) finished, the surgeon seizes the u[)per end with his left hand ; with his right lie takes a thread live or six inches long, furnished with two ordinary needles, and traverses with one needle the anterior wall of the intes- tine from within outwar<ls, two inches from the wound, in such a way as to leave in the ' American .Tonrnal of tlie Medical Sciences, vol. xlii.