829 FUNCTIONAL AND SYMPATHETIC CONDITIONS OF THE MAMM^.. unimportant organs, except that after birth they may become a little SAVollen and tender, and may secrete a small quantity of milky fluid. According to ]^eddie,* the milk is most abundant about the fifth day after birth, and is usually gone by the tenth day. It has the character of the mother’s milk at the same period, with colostric bodies as well as milk-globules, but the latter are in sparing numlier and generally of larger size. It is present in male infants as often as in female ones. The proper treatment of this con- dition is to soothe the tender part by sponging it with warm water, and to apply over it a little cotton-wadding so as to protect it from any injurious pressure. [The habit which some nurses have of squeezing the infant’s breast is to be severely reproliated.] In the girl, the mammaj usually remain in a quiescent state until puberty is established. The time at which this takes place varies under the different circumstances of climate, constitution, educa- tion, and social habits. The average age at which menstruation commences is between 14 and 16 years; it may be delayed until 18, and in rare cases until 23 or 24, and it may begin at 11 or 12. There are also rare cases reported in which menstruation has been observed in the infant or young child, with corresponding changes in the mamma?.^ After puberty has been established, the mamnue usually undergo some change at the menstrual period, and this varies in degree in different women. Tiie amount of this change depends partly on the development of the organs, partly upon the constitution of tlie patient, and partly also upon the spec- ial condition of her life and surroundings. Ovarian or uterine irritation, or retention of menses, may lead to sympathetic enlargement or irritahility of the breasts, in both young and old, and in married and unmarried. The changes to be noted under these conditions consist of some enlarge- ment and tenderness, with occasional discharge of fluid from the nipple. Tlie rare condition of vicarious menstruation may give rise to similar symp- toms. The treatment of these affections consists in an endeavor to remove any cause of irritation, uterine, ovarian, social, or mental, the employ- ment locally of sootiiing applications, the removal of any pressure of the dress likely to increase the irritation, and careful attention to the bowels and general health. In the woman who marries or otherwise parts with her virginitjq the mammae undergo changes; if pregnancy does not take}>lace, the changes, which consist of swelling, tenderness, and knotting of the gland, are usually slight and soon pass oft‘, hut when pregnancy occurs, a marked alteration shows itself The Avhole gland becomes Arm and enlarged, and in some cases there is a feeling of tension and pain, either acute or })ricking in character; the areola becomes darker in color and increases in size,and its tuber- cles are more marked. The nipple also becomes somewhat darker in color and more prominent. It may he well here to note that the changes just described vary in degree in different mamnue wlien pregnancy takes place. Occasion- ally little or no change is observed, and therefore the other signs of preg- nancy should be studied in determining doubtful cases. The tension of the breast in pregnancy sometimes results in inflammation and suppuration, hut this is not common. The condition of the mammte which results from preg- nancy does not often require treatment, but when the symptoms are severe, soothing applications to the breast, protection from local pressure and irritation, and attention to the general health, will be all that is required ; if thei-e is any secretion from the nipple, this organ should bo carefully washed so as to prevent any scab forming which might olistruct the milk-ducts. During lactation, cysts or cavities containing milk are occasionally met with in the breast, and these have been termed Galactocdes. Gross states Monthly .Journal of Medical Science, 1848. 2 London Med. .Journal, 1849.