INGUINAL HERNIA. 1141 The patient being placed on the table, the parts shaved clean and pin-itied, and an anaesthetic administered, so as to get the mnscles i-elaxed, an obli<pie incision is made with a small, shai’p-}»ointed tenotomy-knife, well washed in 1-20 carliolic lotion, in the front of the scrotum over the fnndns of the ru}»- tnre, three-quarters of an inch long, and through the skin and superticial fascia. (Fig. 1132.) The handle of the knife is then used to separate the integu- mentary tissues from the deeper fascial coverings of the hernia, or cord, so as to form a circle of detached integuments large enough to be invaginatcd into the hernial canal without di’awing iqi tlie skin into tlje siqierticial ring. A stout handled needle (Fig. 1131), equally curved in the segment of a circle, with a sharp point, l)lunt shoulders, and a large eye near the point, is used for carrying the wire, "idiis should be well-annealed and liexilde copper wire, silvered over, thick enough not to cut the tissues when drawn tight, but not so thick as to be at all inflexible. A piece about twenty inches long, briskl}' rubbed so as to render it flexible and clean, dipped in a 1-20 solution of carbolic lotion, and then in carbolized oil (l-o), should have each end bent int(i a hook three-(piarte)-s of an inch long, and evenly curved so as easily to pass the eye of the needle. The fore-flnger, oiled, should then be passed into the scrotal puncture (Fig. 1133), and made to invaginate the fascia and sac into the hernial canal, as far tqi as it will go into the deep ring behind the lower fibres of the internal oblapie muscle, which should be raised well upon tlie flngei-. To the inner side of the Anger will then be felt the raised edge of the conjoined tendon, lying on the outer side of the rectus abdondnis muscle. The needle must now be carefully and slowly passed along the Anger until its point can be felt plainly by the bulb of the digit placed behind the con- Fis. 1133. Invagination of the fascia by the fore-finger Fig. J134. Fig. J13.0. The needle perforating the conjoined tendon. Introduction of the T7ire. joined tendon. The point should next be directed inwards so as to take up the tendon, and to transfix it and the aj)oneurosis of the external ob-