DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. 507 mercury, gr. ss to fsj of water, with a little glycerine or honey, is a very good preparation, and its strength may he increased after a time with advantage. Care must, of course, be taken that none of the fluid he swallowed. Tuberculab ulceration occurs, for the most part, at the tip of the tongue. At first superficial, and often multiple, the ulcer is apt to spread into the organ, leading to a splitting of the tip, which becomes bifid as the ulceration proceeds. This form occurs in patients who are distinctly tuber- cular, or on the border-land of tuberculosis ; and the tongue improves if the general health can be re&tablished, or becomes more deeply excavated -pari ■passu with the progress of the disease of the lungs or other organs. Locally, I have found benefit from the use of weak lotions of chromic acid, and have fancied that capping the lower incisor teeth with gutta-percha, so as to obviate the constant friction of the ulcer, has done good. INIercuiial and all anti-syphilitic remedies are extremely harmful to cases of tubercular ulceration. Cancerous ulceration is always of the epitheliomatous type. Attacking the side of the tongue, inpatients usually over forty years of age, the onset of the disease is so insidious as to attract little attention, the ulcer being often attributed (and perhaps correctly as to origin) to the irritation of a tooth. ^yhen well developed, the ulcer is usually oval in shape, with sharply cut edges, and a marked induration beneath it when the parts are grasped by the finger and thumb. The pain of cancerous ulceration is a Avell-rnarked and early symptom, being lancinating and acute, and shooting up into the ear. The irritation causes a great flow of saliva, and the tongue is moved with diffi- culty, at first because of the [)ain produced, and afterwards because it is bound down by the infiltration of all the structures. The submaxillary lymphatic glands become involved early in the disease, being at first swollen and tender, and SLibsecpiently apt to suppurate and break down, causing large openings beneath the jaw. Should tlie disease spread towards the base of the tongue, death may occasionally follow hemorrhage from one of the lingual arteries, but in cases where the anterior part of the tongue is involved, this not unfrequently be- comes adherent to the incisor portion of the lower jaw, and the disease ulti- mately infiltrates that bone. In these cases, the patient has generally a longer life, but one of great misery, and dies at length exhausted by pain and dis- charge, from numerous open sores about the chin and angles of the jaw. In the treatment of epithelioma of the tongue, all surgeons of experience are agreed as to the inutility of medication, whether topical or general, and the advisability of early and complete removal of the disease. A recent discussion at the Societe de Chlner<jied of Paris, has shown that all tlie leading surgeons of that city are agreed with those of ofher countries, that the admin- istration of iodide of [)Otassium in true ejiithelioma is useless, aud that the constant application of nitrate of silver is harmful. The difficulty in practice is to induce a patient to take a sufficiently grave view of his case at an early stage, when an operation may be undertaken with advantage, and with a fair prospect of relief, prolonged if .not permanent. In the later stages, when the lymphatic glands are involved, it becomes a rpiestion whether any inter- ference is advisable, and many surgeons would refuse an operation; but it appears to me that in many, even of the worst cases, temporary relief may often be given by operating, provided that the patient is prepared to run the immediate risk of the proceeding, which is undoubtedly great; and Mr. Stokes, of Lublin, has recently brought liefore the Clinical Society of London, cases • Mudical Times aud Gazette, January 8, 1881,