672 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. the operation, 260 patients having recovered out of 338 operated upon, and only 176 out of 298 not subjected to operation. In a later table Durham' analyzes 212 cases of tracheotomy for foreign body, with 157 recoveries. When retained for a long time the foreign body may become encj^sted,- even in the lung substance.^ Much more frequently it excites ulcerative inflammation, laryngitis, bronchitis, or pneumonitis, as may be, with gradual exhaustion from disease of the larynx, trachea, or lungs. Extreme tolerance is occasionally exhilflted, however, as in a case reported b}’ Franks,^ in which a chicken bone measuring If inches, by Ijtg. inches, by 1 inches, remained impacted above the vocM bands for twenty-three days. Watson® cites an instance in which a piece of gold was lodged for years in one of the ventricles of the larynx, without distressing circumstances, and Gross® one in which a piece of bone was expelled in coughing after sixty years’ retention.'^ When retained for some time, substances are not infrequently expelled spontaneously in fragments. Kuts, beans, coffee grains, and pills are ejected in this way, and even a hypodermic needle, inhaled by a physician who had placed it between his lips, was expelled in two pieces, after thirteen days’ retention.® The period at which spontaneous expulsion takes place, varies with the individuality of the case. In 136 cases of recovery summarized by Durham, expulsion took place immediately, or in less than twenty-four hours, in 6 ; in from one to eight da}"S in 12 ; in from eight to thirty days in 19 ; in from thirty days to one year in 68 ; and in from one to seventeen years in 31. In the great majority of instances, spontaneous expulsion is followed by recovery from all sequelae, even though the expulsion have been delayed months, or even years.® Nevertheless, after the substance has remained in the air-passage for a number of months, death often follows spontaneous expul- sion'®—sometimes within a few days, and sometimes after prolonged suffering, extending over many months. Treatment of Foreign Bodies in the Air-passages.—The spontaneous expulsion of foreign bodies by coughing, early suggested the administration of emetics and sternutories" for the purpose of exciting expulsive expiratory efforts. Theoretically there seems to be a risk run of producing sudden impaction at the cliink of the glottis, as alluded to by all writers on the subject; but any recorded instance of life lost in this manner has escaped my research. The same remark is applicable to the apparently equally condeinnable plan of inverting the body and slapping the patient on the back or on the chest. The generally received surgical opinion is that these measures, though often successful, are unjustifiable mdess a preliminary incision has been made into the air-passage, or unless the surgeon is fully jjrepared to perform immediate tracheotomy on the occurrence of urgent symptoms. To favor expulsion bj" the method of inversion, the patient should be made to take a deep inspira- tion at the moment of inversion, and to follow this with a strong effort at expiration. At the beginning of the latter effort, a blow is to be given oppo- site the point at which the foreign body is believed to be lodged. ' Iliid., p. 770. ^ ® Gross, op. cit., p. 47. 3 Durham op. cit., Am. ed., vol. i. p. 704. ^ Arcliives of Laryngology, October, 1882, p. Sf>2. 6 Practice of Physic, 4tli ed., vol. ii. p. 436 ; cited by Durham. « Op. cit., p. 172. ’ Bartlett New York Journal of Medicine and the Collateral Sciences, vol. vi. p. 23. Ibid, p. 172. ® Sydney Jones, Lancet, August /, 1880, p. 208. 8 lleckstetter’s case, and others, cited by Gross (op. cit., pp. 117-173) ; Elsberg, Phila. Med. Times, July 29, 1882, p. 729 ; Faught, Medical News, Oct. 13, 1883, p. 205. Gross, op. cit., pp. 173-182. *' Aetius, cited by Guyou (Bull. Gen de Therap., 15 Jaiiv., 1869, p. 15).