403 STENOSIS OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. first demonstrated, I believe, through a series of carefully conducted experi- ments, the altered condition of atmospheric pressure in the fauces and ears when swallowing with closed nostrils; and Lucae^ has called attention to the fact, that, when the nose is occluded, every act of swallowing repeats Toynbee’s experiments. Both tymi)anic membranes are thus ahnormally stretched, and the continuance of the process can hut lead to injurious results as regards the hearing power. The manner in which these clianges are produced has also been studied by Roe.^ Occlusion, or a stenosed con- dition of the nasal cavities, when existing in the infant at the breast, possesses a peculiar and pressing significance; here even a simple “cold in the head,” with its attendant h^qierfemia and swelling of the mucous membrane, creates an element of danger. Both BillaixB and Rayer^ have shown us tliat under these circumstances the proper nutrition of the infant becomes almost an impossibility; every attempt to take and hold the breast is incompatible with the enforced oral respiration; the child, if the attempt be persisted in, soon reaches a point of sufibcation which obliges it to desist, and use the mouth for respiratory pur})Oses. In the coryza of the new-born, then, direct and immediate treatment be- comes a necessity. That by means of astringent applications has already been alluded to. Hoppe® uses hollow bougies as dilators, if tlie narrowing is not extreme, and thus by admitting air to the lungs while the mouth is closed over the breast, renders nursing possible; be also recommends forcible distension of tbe passages by means of slender forceps, a })rocedure that will hardly meet with general acceptation. Artificial feeding by means of the oesophageal tube, is advised by Ivussmaul in extreme cases, and according to Fraenkel was successfully employed by Tliiersch, in the ease of his own child. The former author, also, after stating the fact, that a healthy infant during sleep always holds the mouth closed, and relies upon the nose for purposes of respiration, the tongue resting upon tlio hard palate, shows tliat, if under these circumstances occlusion of the nasal passages takes place, asthmatic attacks occur as soon as sleep overtakes the patient. Asleep or awake, the vigorous attempts at inspiration, in nurslings afiected with coryza, may be followed by acute byperaunia of the lungs, and herein also may lie the explanation of the sudden sutfocative attacks. The violent eftbrts at inspiration, under these circumstances, have, moreover, been known to produce urgent dys^aaea, through the “ swallowing of the tongue,” so called. Such instances are reported by Cohen and Stammer, and Bouchut® has also called attention to the fact. Ilauner'' asserts that such cases have not only been mistaken for, but treated as, true croup. Paroxysmal asthma, and even sudden attacks of asjihyxia, are not confined alone to children the subjects of nasal stenosis. Under certain conditions, the same attacks may occur in the adult. Roe® points out that there are two modes in which nasal disease may provoke an attack. 1. 'Fhe most fre«[uent form results from a narrowing or occlusion of the nasal passages by hypertrophied tissue or nasal polypi. 2. Another form is induced by dis- ease of the pituitary mucous membrane, unassociated with hy[iertro[>hy or polypi. The first, he thinks, is botli mechanical tind nerve-rellex in its character, whilst tlie second is purely rellex. It is a noticetible fact, that nasal polypi and hypertrophied tissue, • Arebiv der Ohrenheilk., Hd. iv. S. 188. 18(i7-8. 2 Medical Record, Ai_>ril 30, 1881. ® Traits des Maladies des Eiifants ; 2e ed., p. 480. ^ Note sur le Coryza des Enfants a la Mamelle. Paris, 1820. ® Neue Zeitnng fiir Med., 1850. ® Traite jjrat. des Mai. des Nouvean-nes, 5e ed. Paris, 18(17. ^ .labrbuch fiir Kinderlieilkiinde, V. .Tahrg., S. 73. 1802. ® Report of Annual Meeting of tlie American Medical Association, .June, 1883.