1029 ABDOMINAL ABSCEriSES. tGi’istic of both aftectioiis, have these points in eonirnon; they are deep- seated, they push aside the intestine so as to till the iliac fossa; and neither the one nor the other shows, at ti rst, any very marked sign of phlegmon, which will appear subsequently in intlanimation of the cellular tissue, but be absent altogether in cases of pelvi-peritonitis.” Obstinate vomiting, colliquative diarrhcea, and pains in the legs, loins, and pelvis, sometimes precede or ac- company the general symptoms of ])elvic intlanimation, and the lower limbs may become oedeniatous from plugging of the crural veins, as the following case of M. Brouardel, quoted by Bernutz, shows:— L. M., aged 21, one week after labor experienced pains in tlie legs, loins, and pelvis. The pains were most acute in the left iliac fossa, and in the lower limbs, which became cedematous; she had obstinate vomiting and colliquative diarrhoea. An abscess subse- quently formed in the iliac fossa, and made its way externally in the sacral region, where it discharged a good deal of pus. Hectic fever supervened, and she gradually sank, and died within five weeks. On post-mortem examination the peritoneum and abdominal organs were all found healthy; a fluctuating swelling existed in the left iliac fossa, due to pus which had burrowed in the iliac muscle; the broaol ligaments, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes were healthy. The crural veins were obliterated by a clot, which had the aiipearance also of containing pus. Tliougli there, is, as has already been stated, generally an absence of vaginal swelling, yet sometimes an induration, liigberand less easily reticlied than ill pelvic peritonitis, is felt in the later stages of these abscesses. Bernutz records a ease in which there was a collection of pus between the two layers of tlie iliac mesocolon, resting above the broad ligament and readily discoverable by ex- amination ; it resulted from an extension of inflammation from an abscess which filled the iliac fossa, and occurred in a woman who died of erysi2)elas in the course of these jmcrperal jiblegmons. Treatment.—£\\q. treatment will be the same as for other forms of intra- pelvic or abdominal inflammation. Absolute rest, and the use of o2iium,hot fomentations, liquid nourishment, and gentle laxative medicine to prevent an accumulation within the bowels, are the measures indicated. As soon as fluctuation is detected, a puncture or an incision should evacuate the pus ; but fluctuation should not bo waited for, and if there is reasonable ground for sus2>ecting jius, it should be searched for with a large grooved needle or tine trocar, and a free escajie and drainage should be pirovided. Though recovery will often take place as soon as the jms has been discharged into the liowel, vagina, or piossibly even the bladder, yet fatal consequences sometimes arise after and from this event, and, moreover, it can never be determined that this Avill be the course taken by the abscess, winch may just as likely set up fatal peritoiutis by extension of inflammation to, or by bursting through, the peri- toneum. A good jdan of aiqilying continuous warmth to the abdomen is by means of Leitcr’s coil,^ which I have used somewhat extensively and can strongly recommend.* IX. Ovarian Abscess.—Ovarian abscess is very rare, and its correct diag- nosis during life is much rarer still. In fact, it is generally extremely diffi- cult, and sometimes quite inqiossible, to diagnose it at all. Causes.—Abscess of the ovary is said to occur most frequently in associ- ation with jielvic siqipuration after labor. • A modification of Petitgand’s mediate-irrigation coil. See Fig. ‘272, Vol. II., page 173, supra. ® See, in connection with tlie subject of ilio-jielvic abscess, Veliieau et Berard, Manuel d’Anatomic Cliirurgicale; Urisolle, Les tumeurs phlcgmoueuses des fosses iliaques (ArcUives Generales de Mtid., t. iv. 1839); Bernutz and Goui>il, op. cit., vol. ii.