826 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. gland-structure. These laminae, together -svith the areolar connections of the gland at its base, act in supporting or slinging the breasts, and keeping them in position. M. Giraldes’ describes the circumference of the fibrous capsule of the breast as being continuous with the superficial fascia, and til rough it having an attachment to the clavicle, so as to constitute an addi- tional means of supporting these organs. The areola, or skin immediately surrounding the nipple, is thinner than, and differs in color from, that cover- ing other portions of the breast, and after puberty becomes dotted with small tubercles, which have a communication with sebaceous glands, and open externally. Its color is pink in the infant and red in the young adult, but it becomes dark-colored during and after pregnancy, in old age, and some- times under other conditions. The nipple differs much in development in different persons. In some, it forms a well-marked projection, varying in color from a light red to a dark brown, according to the age and condition of the woman; in others, the organ is small or depressed, or may be absent. The skin eovering the nipi)le is arranged in wrinkles, and is covered by papillte. Surrounding its base are tubercles, communicating, like those on the areola, with small glands, and at its top are several openings, the orifices of the milk-ducts. In addition to the skin and milk-ducts, the nipple is composed of muscular tissue and numei’ous bloodvessels, with delicate areolar tissue, and possesses the power of erection, to a greater or less degree in dif- ferent women. Minute Structure and Development.—The minute structure of these glands may be described as consisting of numerous lobes, subdivided into smaller lobes, and again into lobules, surrounded, connected, and supported by firm areolar tissue and more or less fat, in which the bloodvessels, nerves, and ducts are distributed. The lobules are vesicles of rounded shape, and from them small ducts arise, which join larger duets, and these again unite with others so as to form from fifteen to twenty, Avhich pass to the nipple and constitute the milk-ducts. These milk-ducts, Avhen they reach the under surface of the areola, dilate and form small sacs, but at the base of the nipple they again contract and pass to its summit, where they open on to the surface by separate orifices. The vesicles and ducts are lined by epithelium, Avhich is continuous through the milk-ducts with that of the skin covering the nipple. According to the latest observations, the development of the breasts does not depend, as has usually been supposed, upon an involution of the cells of the euticular epiblast, but takes place more in accordance with the views of the late Professor Goodsir.^ Dr. Creighton, as a result of his important investiga- tions in connection Avith the breast,^ considers that “the secreting structure is formed in a layer (of mesoblast) beneath the outer skin,” and that “ the ducts, or communications with the skin, are essentially secondary formations, OAving their existence to a force from within.” To quote further from Dr. Creighton, his conclusions are ;— (1) That the mammary acini of the guinea-pig develop at many separate points in a matrix-tissue; that the embryonic cells from which they develop are of the same kind that give origin to the surrounding fat-tissne ; and that the process of devel- opment of the mammary acini is step for step the same as that of the fat-lobnles. (2) That the ducts of the mamma develop from the same matrix-tissue by direct aggre- gation of the embryonic cells along predetermined lines ; that the ducts develop in the individual guinea-pig before the acini, whereas in the phylogenetic succession the ducts ‘ Meraoires de la Societe de Chirurgie de Paris. 1851. * Aiiat. and Path. Observations. 1845. ^ Physiology and Pathology of the Breast.