311 METHODS OF EXAMINING THE MIDDLE EAR. Tlie calibre of the instrument is rarely as large as it should he, or else, if the calibre is sufficiently large, the total diameter of the instrument is so great that it can be used only in exceptional cases. A good, serviceable Eustachian catheter should have a calibre of about two and one-fourth, or two and one- half millimetres, and a total diameter of not more than three and one-half millimetres. This proportion of calibre to total diameter is scarcely attain- able in an instrument made of hard rublier. The largest rubber catheter that can ordinarily be bought in the shops, measures nearly four and one- half millimetres in its total diameter, while its calibre measures only two millimetres. For the majority of nasal passages this instrument is too large, and yet its calibre is barely large enough to allow a current of air to be driven through the instrument into the Eustachian tube with the requisite degree of force. On the whole, therefore, the silver catheter, if made of coin metal and properly proportioned, will be found to give the greatest satis- faction. At the same time, it must not be forgotten that many of the silver catheters sold in the shops are even less serviceable than those made of hard rubber. The calilire is not one whit larger, in pro})ortion to the total dia- meter, than that of the average hard-rubber catheter ; and, furthermore, the edges of the lieak of the instrument are often so sharp as to cause the patioit pain, either during its passage through the nose, or while it lies in the mouth of the Eustachian tuhe. With regard to the curve which a good Eustachian catheter should have, I may say that the one represented in the accompanying cut is that which I Fig. 892. Eustachian catheter, of silver; full size. liave found suited to the great majority of adult patients. Some of my col- leagues use a straigliter instrument, and others, one of even greater curvature ; from which it is proper to drtiw the conclusion that the middle ear maj" he successfully inflated by variously curved catheters. To secure the most eflective inflation, however, we should give the catheter such a curve that, when it is in position and air is forced througli it, the direction of the escap- ing current may be the same as that of the Eustachian tulie itself. The com- mon error, as far as my observation goes, is to give the instrument a curve of too short a radius, which causes a large jiart of the force of the current of air to spend itself u[>on the upper wall of the Eustachian tube. In children from five to about tw^elve years of age, it will be found better to use a cathe- ter that is even less curved than that represented in the cut; or one, at all events, in Avhich the curve begins at a point considerably nearer the free end than it does in this instrument. In my work on Diseases of the Ear, I have given a detailed description of the difl'erent steps of the procedure of introducing the Eustachian catheter, and I will essentially reproduce it here. Tlie surgeon should sit directly facing the patient, and at his right hand, within easy reach, should be his rubber bag, auscultation-tul)e, and a bowl or goblet jiartiall}^ filled wdth water, and containing five or six catheters of different sizes and degrees of curvature, lie should have his forehead-mirror in position, ready for use, as he may at the very beginning find it desirable to examine, under illumina-