108 INJURIES OP THE HEAD. liead-injuries, must be most cautiously used, and not until a late period if we would not renew the previous cerebral disturbance. Secondary Affections of the Brain. These result quite as often from slight as from severe injuries. They come on at variable periods after the occurrence of the primary lesion. The same may be said Avith reference to the time of appearance of the symptoms indicative of cerebral complication. Defects of memory are among the most common after-effects of head-injuries, and these may be the sole evidences of cerebral disease, or the amnesia may be associated with other affections. In most in- stances the patient forgets only recent events, but at times the whole history of his past life is a blank. All poAver of speaking a well-knoAvn language may be lost, the patient using that of his childhood. He may forget his oAvn name, or his residence. Again, the patient may give the most circumstantial and minute account of the Avay in Avhich he Avas injured, upon one day, only to contradict it upon the next; and can sometimes be led to say in good faith almost anything that his interrogator pleases, as in a case related by Erichsen. This is of great importance as a medico-legal fact. The patient’s disposition may be completely altered, a gentle, quiet demeanor being exchanged for a captious, morose, or quarrelsome temper. Sleep may be broken by frightful dreams. The mind may become genei’ally Aveakened, so as to be incapable of the slightest exertion. Cephalalgia, vertigo, and tinnitus aurium may also be complained of. Aphasia is a not uncommon occurrence, especially if the anterior cerebral lobes be affected. There may be also agraphia, and loss of the })OAver of articulation. Occasionally the patient loses both memory and speech. All these troubles may be evanescent, but loss of speech and memory is only too apt to be permanent. Insanity, apt to be permanent, is a not infrequent sequel of so-called con- cussion. I have seen one case Avhere, after as long a period as three months of mental alienation, at times so marked as to require bodily restraint, the mind ultimately seemed completely restored. Some few of these cases can be relieved by operation, as in the famous instance recorded by Cline, Avhere, after a depressed fracture of the superior portion of the left parietal bone, trephining, elev'en months subsequent to the injury, restored consciousness and A'oluntary motion. Impairment, disorder, or loss of the special senses is quite common, but special sensation may be at times exalted. Instances have been reported, such as those quoted by Prof. Gross, Avhere deafness of long standing has disappeared after severe concussion of the brain. Unnatural slowness of the pulse, probably due to lesions of the medulla oblongata, the crura cerebri, or the pons Varolii, is an occasional result of concussion of the brain. This cardiac sloAving may last for months, the con- dition coexisting with a peculiar irritability of the heart, so that under excitement the pulse becomes very rapid—again resuming its subnormal rate of frequency upon cessation of mental or other irritation. Changes Affecting the Digestive Organs.—An icteroid hue of the skin is a rare sequel. ISTausea and vomiting, or obstinate constipation, haA^e been sometimes noticed to persist for a considerable time after a head-injury. Gross thinks that Avheii obstinate and prolonged gastric distress is present, there has