999 ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. tumor, that the liver, spleen, or other organ, may he displaced by the pus of a circumscribed abscess. The 'prognosis is unfavorable in most cases, and unless early relief be afforded by aspirating or opening the abscess, or by its spontaneous rupture into the stomach or intestine. When the abscess is caused by tubercular peritonitis, or by malignant disease of the ovary, uterus, or bladder, there can be no prospect of recovery, and the abscess must be regarded as a mere acci- dent in the course of the original disease. In sub-diaphragmatic abscess, if early exit be not given to the pus, there is great risk of the diaphragm being perforated, and of those secondary changes occurring in the thorax which tend so rapidly and surely to a fatal issue. Death occurs in some peri- toneal abscesses suddenly, from rupture into the general peritoneal cavity; in others, after a fortnight or three weeks, from the intensity of the inflam- mation ; and in others, again, after a tedious illness of twelve months or more, from pyaemia, hectic, or exhaustion. Treatment.—This follows on the same lines as the treatment of other ab- dominal inflammations, until pus is suspected or detected, when it should be searched for, and evacuated by the aspirator or trocar. Where a tumor presents itself, or if the hypochondrium is bulged, an incision should take the place of tapping, and the edges of the opening should be kept apart by a drainage tube. Care must, of course, be taken to avoid wounding any of the viscera limiting the abscess space. In an interesting case, reported by Di\ Frederick Taylor,^ of sub-diaphragmatic abscess, attended with effusion into the pleura, the trocar was employed; but it was found after death tliat the instrument had passed below the ])leuritic effusion, into the lower lobe of the right lung—which was adherent to the dia[)hragm—but not low enough to reach the abscess. In other cases an abscess between the diaphragm and liver has been reached through the wedge-shaped, lower edge of the right lung —the lung having become adherent to the parts around; and as a sinus, limited by inflammatory material, has subsecpiently formed, the abscess has discharged itself through the lung without communicating with the pleural cavity, or further implicating lung tissue. This, however, is a condition which cannot be reckoned upon, though it is well known to occur occa- sionally. In cases where the abscess has pushed the diaphragm and lung far up, the pus may be evacuated by an incision in the seventli or eighth inter- costal space, without injuring the lung or 0})ening the general cavity of the }ileura. Small hope of good accruing from pimcture can be entertained if tlie abscess have already burst through the diaphragm, into either lung or pleural cavity,and death must be all but inevitable if it have burst into the gene- ral cavity of the peritoneum. The vis rnedicatrix naturce is only too freipiently tlie motto of the fool’s paradise, and, as far as tlie ])atient is concerned, another term for death. Nature does not select the bowel or the stomach more frecpieiitly, if as frequently, as some more dangerous channel through which to evacuate these abscesses; and, tlxerefore, in all cases in which the cavity can be reached aial di’ained, operative treatment is the best, and the sooner it is adopted the better. Sometimes a mistake in dixignosis bas happily led to these abscesses being opened, and the patients’ lives being thus saved. A good case is i-eported in the Glasgow Medical Jouruiil for April, 1870:— A woman, aged 58, supposed to be suflering iVom ovarian disease reciuiring ovari- otomy, was operated upon by Dr. E. Watson. On cutting tlirougli tlie abdominal parietes in tlie median line, about six (piarts of thick pus escaped, and the linger passed into a cavity, in the lower part of wliicb the organs of the pelvis wei'e felt covered witli ' Case of Abscess between the Diajiliragm and Liver. Guy’s Hosp. Reports, third series, vol. xix. p. 207.