TUMORS OF THE NECK. 595 predisposition, or diatliesis, which promotes and augments the pernicious eftects. It is in the young and those of feeble constitution that glandular enlargements are most common, and it is not infrecpieut to find tliem present in various members of the same family. A temporary derangement of the health, due to unaccustomed strain on mind or body, may -cause this malady to appear very cpiickly, and the best harrier which can be raised to its progress is to recognize and remove the depressing cause. In constitutional syphilis, we frecpiently meet with small, hard, rolling, and painless glands in the back of the neck, and sometimes along tlie edge of the trapezius; but in neither position are they as constant or as characteristic as was at one time supposed. In size, shape, consistence, and number of glands involved, tliere is much variety in adenitis of the neck. Its dimensions range from that of a pea, to that of a mass as big as the fist, and it may he round, oval, or irregular in shape, from the fusing or matting together of several glands. Its consistence varies from that of flesh, to that of bone, and as regards number, while occa- sionally, but rarely, single glands are inflamed, they are more commonly met with in groups or chains, sometimes filling the whole side of the neck. If chronic, they are painless, and are slow to suppurate or break down, while long periods may pass with but little perceptible change in their size or connections. If from any cause more violent action arises in them, not only may the gland be destroyed, hut the surrounding cellular tissue and overlying skin may par- take in the inflammation, and, if pus works its way to the surface, sinuses may remain to mark the point of its passage. If the whole of tlie diseased tissue is expelled, these openings may close, and leave deep and indelible marks. If large and hard, and placed near compressil)le structures, these glandular en- largements may exert injurious pressure. Bloodvessels and nerves may thus suffer, as Ave see Avhen the axilla is filled by glandular masses causing the violent pains and cedema in the arm which produce so much distress in car- cinoma. Caseous degeneration is a not uncommon affection of unliealthy youth, and is generally Avide-spread in its raAuages, attacking many glands contempo- raneously or in succession. These glands are liable to suppurate, but not always in a distinct and satisfactory manner. Part of the gland may break down, Avhile the stool or basis remains behind to feed the suppuration and delay the recovery. Early and efficient opening Avith antiseptic precautions, Avith, it may be, the free use of the spoon to remove the debris of the gland, is the most essential point in the local treatment. It is far from easy to avoid leaving disagreeable marks after such proceedings, but the surgeon’s interference, if judicious and Avell directed, Avill produce less destruction, and leave less objectionable ti’aces, than spontaneous evacuation of the })us. AVlien the glands of the neck become enlarged from malignant disease, they grow quickly, and produce early and disastrous pressure-effects, causing shooting pains along the nerves, interference AAntli the blood supply, displace- ment of the soft structures, and implication of the skin leading to ulceration. The general health becomes involved, and thus from a combination of symp- toms the true nature of tlie groAvth is recognized. It is secondarily to other cancerous deposits existing on the line of tlie lymphatic vessels converging to the glaiuls in the mouth, throat, larynx, etc., that the disease appears. Primary cancer is extremely rare in these glands. When it occurs, many glands Avill lie affected in succession, and sooji such a condition Avill lie estab- lislied as to lie beyond surgical aid. It is by the hardness and fixation of these masses, the pain in the nerves compressed, the early matting together of the growth and its close adhesion to the parts around it, tlie implication of the overlying skin and rapid deterioration of the health, that true cancer