400 AFFECTIONS OF THE SEPTUM. ' British Med. Jour., Oct. 2, 1875. respiration tlirougli the nose, constant collection and drying of the secretions upon the edges of the perfoi-ation, tendency to superficial ulceration, etc.), and should therefore be avoided if possible. Pancoast has separated the car- tilaginous from the bony portion of the septum by subcutaneous division with a tenotome, and then replaced it in its normal position, pulling the nose to the opposite side and holding it with adhesive strips. Other surgeons have divided the nose in the median line and resected the septum. The imli- cations presented in individual cases must guide the operator in his selection from these means. If the obstruction is due to a deflection or displacement of the cartilaginous septum, involving its whole or nearly whole length, the most successful ope- ration for correcting it is probably that proposed by Adams.^ In this method, the bent portion is forcibly broken or straightened by means of powerful for- ceps with parallel blades, one of which is introduced into each nostril; and when the nasal bones are displaced laterally and likewise depressed, these are raised also by carrying the blades of the forceps directly upwards. After the nose and its cartilage have thus been straightened, a retentive apparatus is employed, consisting of a steel screw-compressor, applied so as to support the septum; and, subsecpiently, ivory plugs are used to keep the nostrils moder- ately distended and to give support to the cartilaginous septum, not only daring the healing process, but likewise for a time afterwards. In conclusion, certain less heroic measures need but Ije alluded to: the simple insertion of metallic tubes in the nasal passages, thus exercising gentle dilatation and some compression, and the use of sponge tents, or of laminaria bougies, may, if their use be persisted in, especially in young subjects, bring fortla good results, provided that the amount of deviation is not excessive. Fractures and Dislocations of the ISTasal Septum.—The treatment of these injuries is usually discouraging, as they are commonly followed by per- manent deformity, which is, however, rarely great. Hamilton doubts whether a partition so thin and unsupported, can ever be well adjusted and maintained by artificial means, but advises that each nostril should be plugged carefully and equally with pledgets of lint, and the outside of the nose then covered completely with a nicely-moulded gutta-percha splint or ease, which ought to be made to press snugly upon the sides; these dressings should lie permitted to remain for several weeks, or until the cure is completed. This mode of procedure must be modified and varied to suit individual indications. Fracture of the nasal septum, if extensive, and unless carefully treated at the time of the accident, may by its displacement and subsequent deformity seriously occlude the nasal passages. A common form of the lesion is the tearing away and lateral displacement of the cartilaginous septum from the bony, at their point of junction. The treatment must consist in the accurate readjustment of the displaced parts liy intra-nasal and extra-nasal mani})ula- tion, and their retention by means of mechanical supports, probably within the nasal passages. If the septum be broken into several pieces, as is some- times the case, their immediate removal is indicated; and under any circum- stances, if reposition cannot be effected, and if tlie subsequent deformity be sufficient to occasion occlusion, the offending parts may be cut away. Tumors of the septum, aside from tlie osseous and cartilaginous outgrowths which not infrequently affect it, are rare. The former are the least common, and are only met with far liack in the nasal passage, over the bony portion of the septum. Tliey are more or less linear in shape, stretching in an antero-