MALIGNANT TUMORS. 851 the axilla should be cleared out as a necessajy accompaniment.” Prof. Krister advocates the removal of the axillary glands in all cases, lie has operated on 117 cases in this way, and in only two were the glands entirely free from disease when carefully examined. Prof. Gussenbauer also advises the same proceeding, and in addition thinks that the supra-clavicular glands should be removed. Ill serious glandular involvement, portions of the axillary vessels and nerves have occasionally been excised. Langenbeck has done so in three cases, but in one of these the patient died from gangrene. Esmarch considers that it may be advisable to amputate at the shoulder-joint in such cases. Experience and facts then prove that a thorough removal of the tumor, together with the breast, surrounding tissues, and axillary glands, will much improve the chance of permanent relief in this disease. Prof. Kiister’s testi- mony as to the frerpaency witli which tlie glands of tlie axilla are involved, is most valuable in deciding the importance of taking them away at the time of the operation. It must be observed that a more complete operation adds somewhat to the mortality; but with careful antiseptic precautions, such mortality is not likely to be large. An early and thorough operation, including the removal of the glands in the axilla, is therefore advised in all cases of cancer of the breast in which it is possible to remove the entire seat of disease, and in which the patient’s general condition admits of such an operation. If a patient olijects to the knife, the operation may be performed with the thermo-cautery; and, if cir- cumscribed, the disease may be destroyed by some strong caustic, such as chloride of zinc, in the form either of a paste or of Maisonneuve’s arrows. I prefer the method eni[)loyed by the late Mr. Syrne, which consists in applying a paste of strong sulphuric acid and lamjiblack, the surrounding parts being protected by a wall of gutta-percha, attached to the skin liy means of a solution of gutta-percha in chloroform. Operations in recurring Cancer.—The principle to be followed in these cases is that now usually acknowledged among surgeons, namely, to remove the growth and surrounding parts as soon as the disease recurs, and to repeat the operation as often as may be necessary, provided that the disease remains local and can be reraoveil, and that tlie patient’s health admits of it. I have repeatedly operated on this principle, two, three, four, or more times, and have, in this way, prolonged patients’ lives ; and most }iractical sui’geons have had like ex[)erience. Method of Operating.—Ko strict rule as to special incisions can be laid down in connection with removal of the breast for cancer. The nipple and skin around it should always bo taken away, and when the skin is at any point adherent to the breast or tumor, or is atfected with the disease, it should be freely removed. The incisions should be made in such a direction and to such an extent as thoroughly to expose the whole breast and the tissues arouml it, to take away the nipple and areola, with any adherent or atfected skin, and to expose the axillary space. Another point, but it must be con- sidered a minor one, is to make the incisions so that the edges of the wound maybe approximateil without tension, and with least risk of their separation by muscular action. When the whole breast and the surrounding textures have been thoroughly exposed (and in dissecting otf tlie skin and areolar tissue care must be taken not to separate along with them portions of breast- structure), the mass should be removed, together with tlie fascia on which it rests, and tlien all tissues—fatty, tibrous, or muscular—which show any signs of involvement should be taken away, and the axilla carefully searched and all glands removed. If there is any difficulty in getting access to the axil-