INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1072 ® Trans. Clin. Soc., vol. x. p. 14. sions; and, fortunately, it is unnecessary to be so for the safe performance of either as})iratory puncture or cholecystotoni}’. i)r. E. L. Eixon^ relates a case in which the gall-bladder was tapped five times with great relief, and a total of eighty-seven and a half ounces of liquid were withdrawn by the aspirator. The patient was jaundiced, and the com- mon bile-duct was obstructed with cancer; so that though life was prolonged and eased, it was not saved by the operation. ClIOLECYSTOTOMY. Under this term it is not intended to include those procedures, of which several are on record, for dilating fistulous openings for the removal of biliary calculi which have been detected by a probe, or finger, passed along a fistu- lous track. As in similar cases of stone in the kidney, such measui’es difter entirely in their conditions from a planned operation where no fistula exists. Cholecystotomy, like some other abdominal operations, has been long thought of, rarely performed, and strongly condemned, but now at last seems likely to find a recognized place in abdominal surgery. [It was clearly described, and distinctly advised in suitable cases, by Sharp,^ of Guy’s Hospital, in the mid- dle, of the last century.] In Good’s Study of Medicine,^ we find it stated that “ Formerly, when the gall-bladder was suspected to be completely gorged, its walls thickened from long-continued irritation, the concretions too large to be forced forward, and the pain permanent and severe, attempts were made to remove them by a section into the cyst. Bloch gives a singular case of this kind, in which not fewer than sixty-two distinct calculi were taken away with success. But, in general, the operation has not answered, or has been followed by a formation of other crops of concretions; so that Morgagni, and many later writers of eminence, have strongly reprobated the use of the knife, and it is rarely or never had recourse to in our own day.” Again, Dr. Andree^ had long before written, “ Lithotomy has been advised for the removal of biliary calculi. This, however, has arisen from the uncandid representation of a very uncommon case, but one which lias, I know, occurred, to wit, of an abscess forming between the calculus and the integuments of the abdomen and he continues, describing a case of fistulous track leading to a calculus which was thus removed. In a case of I’etit’s, in which the tumor was opened contrary to his advice, on the suppo- sition that it was an hepatic abscess, a fistula formed, and a calculus was extracted. In October, 1859, Dr. Thudichum urged the advisability of removing gall-stones by incision. In October, 1875, Dr. Daly and Mr. Maunder® discussed the operation of cholecystotomy in reference to a case of gall-stone impacted in the gall-bladder, and had Maunder been able to feel the gall-bladder or the stone, he was prepared “ after the manner of gastro- enterotomy to cut down on the gall-bladder and secure it to the side; then, after adhesion had taken place, open the bladder and remove the gall-stone.” The operation, however, was not done; the patient died; and it was found that, besides the stone in the gall-bladder, a still larger one was impacted in the common bile-duct, that all the biliary tubes, both within and without the liver (except the cystic duct) were dilated, and that there were numerous small abscesses in tlie liver substance. 1 Practitioner, April, 1876.- 2 Critical Enquiry into the present state of Surgery, 2d edit., p. 223. London, 1750. ® Op. cit., edit. 1825, vol. i. p. 420; ibid., edit. 1840, vol. i. p. 349. ^ Considerations on Bilious Diseases, etc., pp. 45 and 64. 1790.