JIALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD, 140 ill the usual form of cliroiiic osteo-periostitis is that known as the gumma- tous ; and, indeed, the disease is described hy some authors under the title “ osteitis gummosa cranii.” The gummatous change may commence either in the hone itself, in the deeper layers of the pericranium, or in the dura mater. INIost usually it commences as a gummatous pericranitis. The frontal and parietal hones are those most commonly attacked, hut the disease may involve many bones, and is in some cases very extensive. If the affection commence on the surface of the hone, the pericranium becomes lifted off by the material of the gumma, and an external tumor is perceptible that is known as a syphilitic node. If the bone be affected, it is found to be penetrated by gummatous matter, and the parts involved often become converted into a soft lardaceous mass. Tins soft material may be absorbed, and in this way a loss of substance in the bone becomes obvious; and if the whole thickness of the bone has been in- volved, a perforation I’esults, These defects and perforations are not filled up by new bone, but are covered in l\v a fibrous cicatrix derived from the fib- rous investments of the bone at the affected part. Many parts of the bone may be attacked at once, and so many little pits and perforations may be formed in a comparative!}^ small area. To this form of the malady Virchow has given tlie name of dry syphilitic caries. About these bone defects, osteo- phytic plates are apt to form upon the surface of the skull, and are derived from ossification of the inflammatory or gummatous material. Speaking generally, the syphilitic deposit (as it is often called) may (1) be absorbed, (2) may ossify, or (3) may break down into suppuration. An ex- ample of absorption is afforded in dry syphilitic caries, and in the entire disappearance of large sub})ericranial nodes. Ossification is not uncommon. l>y its agency, the affected bone is rendered denser, thicker, and more com- pact. If the pericranial deposits ossity, hard, irregular elevations of bone, of variable size, may lie formed, constituting one form of exostosis. In the same way, trom ossification of material thrown out betAveen the dura mater and the bone, exostoses or groAvths from the inner surface of the skull may be produced. The rarest mode of ending for the syphilitic material is by supi)uration. Vecrosis may folloAv from this disease, of Avhich sequence more aaTII be said presently. The symptoms are often someAvhat indefinite, and the nature of the disease can be more often suspected than ])Ositively diagnosed, especially when the morbid process is deejdy seated in the bone. The patient, the subject of ter- tiary syphilis, com]>lains of slight but fixed pain in some part of the head. This pain is Avorse at night, and is influenced not a little by the state of the Aveather. There Avill generally be some tenderness on pressure. If the peri- cranium be involved, a deep-seated, hard swelling very sloAvly forms—a syi)hilitic node. This sAvelling holds a very chronic course, and may in time disappear, or become bony, or break doAvn into pus. If there be no surface node, the diagnosis is more diflicult, and no cases are more hard to interpret than are those in which the irritation of a projecting syphilitic mass from tlie interior of the skull has caused brain symptoms. The amenability of the disorder to antisyphilitic treatment is of much value in the diagnosis. The treatment of syphilitic osteo-periostitis of the skull does not materially ditfer from the treatment adopted in like bone disease elsewhere. Iodide of potassium should be freely and diligently given, and every measure adopted that may improA’-e the patient’s general health. In the majority of cases, the administration of mercury at the same time Avill be found of considerable advantage, unless there be something in the patient’s condition to contra- indicate the drug. The inflamed part should be protected, and no appli- cation is needed beyond that used for this protection. If there be certain