641 WOUNDS OF THE LAKYNX AND TRACHEA. tracheotomy at any stage of the treatment; a fact recognized and utilized in wounds both of the larynx and of the trachea by llabicot, as early as 1594.^ Severe injuries to the larynx or trachea—whether fracture, laceration, or contusion—and the presence of foreign bodies in the air-tube, demand precau- tionary tracheotomy to insure the safety of the patient from the dangers of sutfocation—dangers which cannot be ignored. The point at which tra- cheotomy is to be performed 'will have to be selected with reference to the individual case. This may be just below the cricoid cartilage, further down, or through the crico-thyroid membrane. The tampon-canula (Fig. 1026) is Fig. 1026. Trendelenburg’s rubber-tampon caniila; Oerster’s modification. The dotted lines indicate the distension of the soft-rubber jacket when filled with air. preferable in these cases to the naked instrument, as it occludes the entire calibre of the air-passage. In fact, it is questionable whether all wounds opening into the larynx through the thyro-hyoid memltrane, or through the thyroid cartilage, should not bo regarded as demanding precautionary trache- otomy. Although it is well kncovn that extensive incised wounds do get well when left almost Avithout surgical interference, it is equally well known that sudden suffocation sometimes takes place, despite every })recaution save that of tracheotomy. This subject lias been admirably discussed by Witte^ in an article on wounds of the larynx and their treatment, especially in refer- ence to the value of a prophylactic tracheotomy, the importance of which he has ably demonstrated. The precautionary ti’acheotomy does not add to the immediate risk in the slightest degree, and sup})resses the risk in approxi- mating the edges of the external wound, which is always run under otlier plans of treatment. Von Langenbeck^ counsels the performance of trache- otomy in all cases in which either plionation or respiration is seriously inijieded. The ari’est of primary hemorrhage by syncope is apt to mislead the uncau- tioned practitioner, and tempt him to close the wound by suture—a procedure which prevents the escape of the blood at the second hemorrhage, which is almost certain to occur when reaction takes place. If the external wound lie closed, this blood will run down the air-passage, and maj' drown the [latient, or, clotting, may suffocate him. Cases made fatal by too assiduous attention of this kind are on record, and otliers are known by tradition and by obser- vation. Liston was one of the most strenuous teachers of the impropriety of ‘ Snr la Bronchotomie. Questions Cliirurgicales, chap. xv. pp. 77-83. Paris, 1620. 2 Arch. f. klin. Chir., Bd. xxi. H. 1, 2, 3. * Militairartzliche Zeitschrift, Bd. i. S. 60; cited by Witte, loc. cit., S. 395. VOL. V. 41