INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 306 that the foreign hotly may be concealed in this pocket, we must bend the end of the middle-ear probe slightly, pass it gently down to the inner end of the canal, and then sweep the tip of the instrument cautiously along the bottom of the cul-de-sac^ in order to bring the foreign body into view, if it be lodged in that locality. Again, I suppose I must repeat the caution, that only those who who are able to see the membrana tympani distinctly, and who at tlie same time possess the requisite degree of delicacy in their manipu- lations, have any right to attempt the removal of such a foreign body by means of probes or hooks. All others should rest satistied with the compara- tively safe method of syringing the ear which is believed to harbor the foreign body. In this connection I desire to make the remark, that a failure to bring to light an object that is supposed to be lodged in the external auditory canal, by means of syringing, aftbrds but a very poor guarantee that the canal is free from the presence of any such foreign body. Further- more, there are occasions when the employment of the syringe may do positive harm ; as for instance, when the foreign body is a dried bean or pea, which, under the influence of moisture, may swell up to twice the size which it possessed in the dry state. In the case of larger foreign bodies, which are actually impacted in the meatus, instrumental interference, by means of long and slender hooks of diflerent sizes, becomes almost a necessity. Under such circumstances syringing is reasonably sure to fail, and, if such proves to be the case, the physician should frankly confess his inability to extract the foreign bod}g and should obtain the assistance of an expert. If the patient is free from pain, and there are good reasons for believing that the foreign body is not exciting inflammation of the surrounding parts, it Avill be perfectly proper to postpone surgical interference for several days, or even weeks, if necessary. The reasons why the foreign body should be removed, are these. It may change its position and assume one in which it will press against the membrana tympani; in the event of an acute inflammation of the middle ear, it may prevent the free escape of the discharge from the drum- cavity, and thus favor the development of serious intracranial disease (abscess or simjile meningitis) ; and. Anally, its presence in the auditory canal is almost invariably a source of great anxiety to the parents, and its removal is therefore likely to produce correspondingly great satisfaction. In removing a loosely-fitting foreign body from the auditory canal, no difliculty will be experienced in passing a bent slender probe, or a slender steel hook, by the side of the object, between it and the wall of the meatus^ and then turning the instrument on its long axis in such a manner as to bring tlie bent part of the hook directly behind the body. By cautiously pulling upon the instrument we may then readily extract the foreign substance. In the case of a tightly fitting object, we should proceed in [)recisely the same manner. The task, however, will be found far more difiicult, and we may find it necessary to re-adjust the hook several times, before we finally succeed in dislodging the foreign body. All these manipulations, it must be clearly understood, are to be made only when tlie auditory canal is perfectl}^ illumi- nated, and while the operator is observing as closely as he can the direction in which his instrument is travelling, and the depth to which he has made it ]ienetrate. The after-treatment in the more serious cases should be essentially the same as that which is required in cases of acute inflammation of the external auditoiy canal or middle ear. In the simpler cases no after-treatment is necessary. Wounds of the Auditory Meatus.—W^ounds involving only the external auditory canal are in my experience C|uite rare. They usually result from