134 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. Anatomy}—Tliese various tumors are of a round or pyriform outline, and present as a rule a uniform surface. Sometimes, however, sharp fissures or depressions appear upon the surface, giving the mass a lohed appearance, sug- gestive of its division into two or more parts. In size they vary greatly; the smallest may be the size of a little nut, and the largest may exceed the dimensions of the patient’s head. They usually present a distinct neck, and are often actually pedunculated. As a rule, they are covered by normal scalp, more or less deficient in hair, according to the size and tenseness of the tumor; hut in otlier cases the integuments may be much atrophied, or red and vascular, or raw like a granulating surface, or represented solely by a scar-like tissue. The sac is composed of dura mater lined by the arachnoid, and in some cases i)resents irregular sacculi and partitions, although in the majority of instances its interior is perfectly smooth. The hole in the skull through which the mass protrudes, varies greatly in size and shape, and usually presents a clean and even edge. If much brain has escaped fi-oni the cranium, microceplialy will exist, although it may be somewhat modified in its conspicuousness by the hydrocephalus that is very often present in these cases. Scoliosis or unecpial development of the skull is also common in severe instances; and other congenital deformities, such as s])ina bifida, hare- lip, cleft palate, talipes, and umbilical ruptures, not infrequently coexist. Of these tumors, meningocele is the rarest. Indeed, some authors question its existence.^ It simply consists of a protrusion of the dura mater and araclinoid, and may be regarded as a limited hydrops of the arachnoid sac. Ileineke regards it as the remains of an encephalocele, the protruded portion of brain having returned into the skidl. Others, however, consider menin- gocele as the commencement of a brain protrusion. There is no doubt that this tumor is extremely rare, and that the bulk of the cases reported as meningoceles are really hydrencephaloceles. Encephalocele is not so uncom- mon, and consists of a hernia of a portion of the brain, that is usually con- nected with the cerebral mass by a narrower portion or pedicle. There may be no fluid in the sac, but if any is present, it is entirely external to the brain substance. Ily dr encephalocele^ by far the gravest of these tumors, is, unfoi’tu- nately, the variety most usually met with. The }>iece of brain protruded in these cases is found to be distended by fiuid from a ventricle. Indeed, the con- dition is that of an extreme hut limited ventricular hydrocephalus. The cavity in the protrusion is connected with the afiected ventricle by a contracted channel that may he very narrow, the hernial portion being as it were a diverticulum from the ventricle. The protruded portion of brain may be so distended as to he represented by a mere film of cereliral matter, and in many cases all traces of it are lost except about the neck of the tumor. The cor- responding ventricle is always distended, such distension being, however, as a rule, infinitely less in degree than that found in the protruded part. ^ This is generally so distended that all trace of convolution on the surface is lost. In addition to the internal collection, some fiuid may also be tound in the sac, quite external to the brain. Situation.—By far the most common site for these tumors is the occipital region, and next the fronto-nasal region. From the base of the skull, and from the parietal and temporal regions, these protrusions are rare.^ In 93 collected cases, 68 were about the occiput, 16 in the fronto-nasal region, and 9 about the base.^ • For a full account of the anatomy of these affections, see an article by Sir Prescott Hewett, in St. George’s Hospital Reports, vol. vi. p. 117. 1873. Also monograph by M. Spring, Mem. de I’Academ. de Belgique, tome iii. Brussels, 18.53. 2 L.-A. de Saint-Germain, Art. Encephalocele, Nouveau Diet, de Med. et de Chirg. Pratique, p. 195. 1870. 3 Houel, Arch. Gen. de Med., 5e serie, tome xiv. pp. 409, 569. 1859.