459 FACIAL NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOUREUX. Facial Neuralgia or Tic Douloureux. This is an exceedingly painful aftection of the nerves of the face, chiefly affecting the branches of the fifth pair. It may be the result of traumatic lesions, or it may occur from malarial exposure, or from a variety of consti- tutional or local causes. Its most common cause is direct irritation of the dental nerves, but it may be the result of reflex irritation originating in parts more or less remote. The pain often occurs in paroxysms of frightful severity, aggra- vated even by the slightest touch or motion of the affected parts. During the intervals between the paroxysms, the remissions are often cpiite incom- plete, and the sufferings of the patient are so severe and persistent, as to render life an almost intolerable burden. ZA-effbne/d.—Special attention should be paid to the causal indication. When the neuralgic pains are the result of reflex indtatiou, the primaiy cause should be cai’efully investigated, and appropriate remedies should be employed to remove it, or to counteract its agency. When the neuralgia is the result of direct irritatioii of the branches of the fifth pair of nerves, relief may sometimes be afforded by powerfid revulsion, as by tfie application of the moxa or the actual cautery. Dartholow cured several cases by injecting chloroform deeply into the tissues in the vicinity of the nerve involved in the disease. lie injected half a drachm, passing the needle from the border of the up})er lip to the vicinity of the infraorbital foramen.! Dr. J. D. Mattison, of Chester, N. J., adopted the same treatment, injecting 20 minims of chloroform. There was severe })ain at first, followed by complete relief.^ Dr. Henry Hunt published a treatise on tic douloureux, in London, in 1844. He entered lai’gely into tlie etiology and the medical treatment of the disease. He regarded it as often due to functional disorder or organic disease of the digestive organs, atonic dyspepsia being one of its common causes. When the tongue was heavily furred, and the urine turbid, he recommended an emetic at the beginning of the treatment, follow'ed by a mercurial cathai’tic. After this preparatory treatment, he often gave with advantage Fowler’s solution, beginning with four minims, and gradually increasing the dose to ten or twelve minims three times a day. When this disagreed with the patient, he gave two or three minims of Scheele’s prussic acid, and small doses of nitrate of potassium, with three or four grains of James’s powder at bedtime. He attached much importance to the use of warm clothing, and to moderate exercise in the open air, avoiding fatigue, especially just before or after eating. For tbe relief of the severe paroxysms of pain whicli continued after the removal of visceral congestion, he prescribed opium, bel- ladonna, camphor, and other narcotics. Among these he found belladonna the most efficient. In severe cases he gave one grain of the exti’act hourly, until three grains had been given. He then suspended the remedy and watched the case. After the first strong im})ression, he usually found that smaller doses sufficed. He always avoided the use of anodynes while there were sym[)toms of visceral congestion. As a local api)lication affording tem- porary relief. Hunt recommended an ointment com^iosed of one grain of aco- nitine and one ounce of cerate, rubbed upon the part for two or three minutes at a time, and repeated twice a day. Dr. Hunt had seen excellent results from the removal of neuralgic patients from low and damp places to a high and dry locality. When neuralgia is evidently the result of exposure to malaria, and when ’ Med. Surg. Reporter, No. 871. * Med. Record, May 1, 1874, p. 227.