240 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. near-sightedness has improved witli years, because he reads with the hook farther away now than when young. Actually it has not, and he now needs a negative lens ISTo. 8, for perfect distant sight, as always before. Sup};iose the refraction of the eye is emmetrojnc. Then the patient has a range of accommodation, say from three inches to an infinite distance, when young. As years fiow on, his near point goes away towards the far point, and at forty or forty-five has reached ten inches, when he begins to feel the need of glasses to read. When all focusing power is gone, the near point has gone out to an infinite distance, the far point of an emmetropic eye. Such a patient must have magnifying glasses to read, but sees perfectly in the dis- tance without any aids. Again, let us suppose that the refraction is hijperojnc. In emmetropes the ciliary muscle is at complete rest in all but close work. In hyperopes it is always on a strain, except when the eyes are shut, as in sleep, l^ow with years, the same hardening process goes on in the lens, and the near point re- cedes. Such persons often need convex glasses to read with, even when young, because the strain on the accommodation is excessive and fatiguing. Presby- opia tells on tliem much earlier than on emmetropes, and when all accom- modation is gone at from forty-five to sixty years of age, the sight fails for distant as well as for close objects, and they see badly far oft' without glasses, and still worse near at hand. Such an unfortunate now needs two pairs of magnifiers, a weaker for distance, and a stronger for reading. These are the three ordinary conditions of retVaction, two of them anomalous, and one perfect. Only one other anomaly exists, and that is astigmatism in its two forms, liype- ropic and myopic. Correctible astigmatism is due mainly to irregularities of curvature in the cornea, and hence may be left out in this hasty summary of inconveniences from hardening of the lens. These practical observations seem necessary to a clear understanding of the pathology of cataract. While cataract is seen at all ages, and may even be congenital, it is much most frec|uent in advanced life. The natural, nutritive change that takes place in the lens of an elderly person, supplies a good soil for senile cataract. In old people the nucleus of the lens is large, hard, dry, and of an ambe-r color, even when clear. Its wear and repair have in a good measure ceased, and the nutritive activity of even the cortical lens substance is very sluggish. Hence, any of the causes that bear heavily on nutrition, may determine senile cata- ract. While any one, without regard to parentage, may become a victim of cataract, still there is a strong hereditary predisposition to it in certain fami- lies, which shows itself in the young as well as in the old. The members are attacked, usually, at about the same age. The etiology of cataract is often inscrutable. The hardening and drying nucleus of old people is supposed to drive out its cjuantum of water into the softer cortical, producing swelling of its lens fibres and tlieir disorganization. The lens is then supposed to give otf its soluble albumen freely to the aqueous humor, and to absorb from it excess of water. This leads to the swelling of the lens cortex, in the progress of cataract, and to reduction in depth of the anterior chamber. When the sub- stance of the lens is opaque quite up to the capsule—when the cataract is said to be mature—a partial absorption of the softened cortical takes place, and the chamber deepens. If this process has gone on for years, the capsule comes to embrace a hard, dry nucleus, and adheres to it as it it were waxed. We call it then a hypermature cataract. Simultaneously with beginning senile cataract, patients often become myopic. Those that were myopic before the changes in the lens, become more so. This is doubtless due to the swelling of the lens during the cataractous alterations. Old people who find themselves laying aside their reading glasses for weaker, or even reading without any, have become myopic. In proportion as they acquire “ second