113 DISEASES OF THE SCALP. erysipelas is, according to Zuelzer (who speaks from a large collection of ob- servations), on the average, 10, 12, or 14 days; less often, 6 days, and still more rarely does it become a matter of weeks. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of facial erysipelas presents no special difficulties, but when on the scalp its recognition is sometimes dubious, owing to the often scarcely noticeable amount of swelling and redness. The constitutional dis- turbance should arouse suspicion of erysipelas, and an existing injury of the scalp should direct attention to that part, when at the spreading edge the features of the disease would be obvious. Treatment—The treatment of head erysipelas presents little that is special.‘ The scalp should be shaved, all wounds kept scrupulously clean, and, as a local application, I should advise the constant use of lead and spirit lotion. The practice of multiple punctures is to be condemned. If any symptoms of cerebral hyperiemia ap}>ear, an ice-bag should be applied to tlie liead, bro- mide of potassium administered, and the case treated on general principles. The eyelids, if they remain swollen, should he carefully examined for abscess, and immediate exit given to the pus, if present. Cellulitis.—Diffuse Phlegmon.—This tenn. refers to a diffuse inflamma- tion, very commonly erysipelatous, involving tlie loose layer of connective tissue lying between the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle and the pericranium. It is usually due to a wound opening up that layer of loose tissue, ljut may depend also upon any deep ideeration, upon injuries ivithout breach of surface, that lead to suppuration—for instance, fracture, extravasa- tion of blood, etc.—upon various forms of bone disease inducing suppuration, and, lastly, upon the extension of erysipelas to the deeper parts. It is very doubtful if it is over spontaneous, although Cliassaignac^ states that it may occur idiopathically during convalescence from cholera. Symptoms.—About the affected spot a deejeseated swelling of the scalp appears, which extends somewliat rapidly, and is due to effusion in the sub- aponeurotic tissue. This sv/elling is at first hard, hot, tender, and })ainful. As it increases it becomes more braAvny, and the parts more evidently mde- matous. The extent of tlie swelling varies, but, as a rule, before it has attained any great size it liecomes softer and boggy in spots; the skin, which has up to this time been of normal color (unless erysipelas exists), now becomes reddened; fluctuation, perhaps, is evident; and, at last, pus is dis- charged. AVith the evacuation of the pus much of the mdenia sulisides, and the local symptoms, Avhich are often very severe, become less distressing. These local changes are ushered in and accompanied by symptoms of general disturbance, by rigors Avhich are often repeated, by fever Avhich may run very high, by sickness, headache, and general malaise. Cereliral symptoms, such as occur in eiysipelas, may also be present, but, as a rule, all the con- stitutional symptoms subside considerably when the }>us has found an exit. The extent of the local mischief varies. In some cases the AAdiole of the scalp may be lifted up, and appear to rest upon a boggy stratum beneath. Sup- pui-ation occurs very early, often in two or three days, and resolution is extremely uncommon. The pus, as a rule, soon finds an outlet, and mostly this is situate in the temporal region or behind the eay, about the inferior limits of the aponeurosis. There are commonly several openings. Sloughs of the connective tissue are discharged or may bo removed. Often the apo- neurosis itself sloughs in larger or smaller portions, and in some cases tlie pericranium dies in part, leaving the bone bare, and the condition may lie followed by very extensive necrosis. It is remarkable that sloughing of ^ See Vol. I. p. 191. VOL. V.—^8 2 Traite Pratique de la Suppuration, tome ii. p. 7. 1859.