GTS INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TUE AIR-PASSAGES. Congenital fistula may be complete or incomplete. It is attributed* to defect ill the normal closure, during foetal existence, of the third or fourth branchial fissure, or to defect in the union of the third or fourth branchial arch. In the former and moi'e frequent instance, the external orifice, for the lesion is usually unilateral, ivill be located at the inner border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, or between its two heads, half an inch or more above the sterno-clavicular articulation. In the latter instance, the orifice is in the middle line, sometimes as high up as the cricoid cartilage. When the lesion is bilateral, in the fii’st class of cases, the two integumentary orifices are usually symmetrically located. Ten instances of bilateral fistula out of a total of forty-six have been collated by lieusinger.^ One instance has been reported of three external orifices arranged longitudinally.^ The integumentary opening is usually quite small, barely permeable with a lachrymal probe, sometimes admitting a bristle merely. Tlie orifice is bulbous, often tumid, sometimes indurated, and usually congested. It be- comes temporarily sealed from time to time by desiccated mucus. The fis- tulous track is very minute in calibre, often impassable by the most delicate j)i’obe. It is lined with mucous membrane, sometimes quite discernible at the external orifice, from which a drop or two of mucus or muco-pus exudes from time to time, or is pressed out by the patient at intervals for purposes of cleanliness. The internal orifice opens into the lai'ynx much more frequently than into the trachea. Tracheal tistulie, for some indeterminate cause, have been noted almost solely in females.^ In inconqilete fistula, there will be no integumentary opening unless an abscess is formed, the discharge of which, externally, converts the lesion into a complete fistula. Hence the history of a complete fistula usually begins with birth, or shortly thereafter, while the history of an incomplete fistula begins much later in life, dating from the ap- pearance or rupture of the overlying abscess. Thus a case was observed in Langenbeck’s clinic,® of a child twelve years of age, in whom a tumor, pro- bably an abscess, some two inches above the sternum, and in the median cervical region, had been opened with caustic several years previously; and a somewhat similar case, in a lady in her thirty-seventh year, has occurred in the practice of Dr. Young, of Florence, and Mr. Pugin Thornton,® of London, the internal orifice, which was detected laryngoscopically, occupying the right ventricular band—a location indicative of an intilcately circuitous track, probably due to abscess in two directions. Symi)toms.—-The symptoms are a daily discharge of two or three drops of mucus or purulent mucus, from a minute pouting orifice in one of the locali- ties mentioned ; the expulsion of air-bubbles on forced expiration, in some in- stances; and the ability to draw air inward in exceptional cases. Abnormal voice has occasionally been noted. In a few examples of supposed incom- plete fistula seen by myself,^ in young adults of both sexes, sudden emphy- sematous tumefaction occurred from time to time in the anterior cervical region, the tissues in one instance becoming pushed beyond the chin. At times, all this would occur within a few minutes; at times it would consume several hours. Though most frequent after exertion, or under emotional • Foerster, Die Missbilrlungen der Mensclieii. Jena, 1861. * Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. xxxiii. S. 177. 3 Ascliersoii, De fistulis colli congeiiitis. Berlin, 1832 ; cited by Riegel and by Agnew. ■* Bardeleben, Lebrbuch der Cliirurgie und Operationslelire, Vierte Ausgabe, Bd. iii. S. 445. 1864 ; cited by Riegel. ® Fischer, Pitba nnd Billroth’s Ilandbuoli, Bd. iii. Abtli. i. Lief iii.; cited by Riegel. 6 Archives of Laryngology, April, 1883, p. 127 (with laryngoscopic illustration of laryngeal orifice). ’’ Op. cit., p. 598.