INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 892 abdominal contents, and the escape of noxious fluids into the ca%’ity of the peritoneum, which are the causes of danger in penetrating wounds. Both the penetrating and the non-penetrating wounds vary according to the nature of the wounding body, and the mode of intliction of the injuiy. They may he either incised, punctured, lacerated, contused, or gunshot wounds. The incised are the simplest and most favorable; the punctured, if we except operation wounds, are the most common ; the lacerated and contused are the most tedious in recovery, and the most prone to be followed by suppu- ration and sloughing; and gunshot wounds are the most fatal. I. Non-Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen. AVounds of the same class difter from one another according to their extent and depth ; their direction, in relation to the course of muscular fibres, blood- vessels, and nerves, and the natural folds or lines of the surface; their situa- tion, with respect to the varying thickness of the parietes ; and their form, as to whether they are linear, irregular, jagged, angular, or flap-like. Incised wounds are produced by knives, razors, scythes, hatchets, sabres, pieces of tin, glass, or any other sharp-edged or cutting bodies. Symptoms.—They are always followed by more or less gaping of the divided tissues, the degree of which depends upon the elasticity of the tissues, upon the tension of the abdominal walls at the time of, or subsequent to, the injury, and upon whether the wound is transverse to, or parallel with, the fibres of the muscles. The amount of bleeding will depend upon the size and number of the vessels wounded, but usually it is not severe; the pain which follows, is due first of all to the division, injury, or exposure of the nerve-fibres, and afterwards to the pressure of inflammatory effusion. Superficial or tegumentary wounds are less severe in their symptoms and in the risk of complications, and their treatment is more simple than that of the deep or musculo-tegumentary. There is scarcely any bleeding, and little or no difficulty in maintaining the edges together, in the superficial wounds; but, owing to the great thickness of the integuments in the loins, and to the promi- nence of the ribs at the epigastrium, sutures are almost always requisite in those situations. Sutures are also, as a rule, beneficial, though not necessary, elsewhere. In the hypochondria and epigastrium, the mobility of the ribs may require restraining in order to prevent traction on the sutures. AA^here the integuments are very thick, a wound niay extend for some depth without reaching the muscles. In deep wounds, much depends on the division of muscles. In the epigastric, umbilical, and hypogastric regions, a transverse wound gapes widely, and possibly hemorrhage is severe from branches of the internal mammary or deep epigastric arteries, or some of the larger veins here situated. In the hypochondria, if the intercostal sjiaces are penetrated, troublesome bleeding may occur from the intercostal vessels. In the loins, the erector spinte and even the quadratus muscles, as well as tlie posterior parts of the flat muscles and the lumbar arteries and veins, and branches of the spinal nerves, may be divided. Poland has pointed out that, if the external oblique muscle is wounded parallel to its fibres, and the internal oblique and transversalis are also divided, there is a liability for the blood and other discharges to collect instead of escaping, owing to the closure of the incision in the external oblique. In the iliac region, longitudinal wounds gape more than the transverse ; here, too, there is a probability of the spermatic cord or the deep epigastric artery being wounded. TreatmerU.—In the treatment of incised wounds, it is necessary, here as