23 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. Treatment.—From the preceding remarks, it is clear that the surgeon’s main attention should be directed not to the broken skull, but to the injured brain. Encephalitis results, first, from injury done to the brain and membranes by the fracturing force and the bony fragments. Granted a certain amount of intra- cranial injury, and inflammation must ensue; but in many cases this unavoid- able result can be conducted to a favorable termination by antiphlogistic regi- men, and treatment such as was advised for concussion and laceration of the brain. I am desirous of emphasizing the fact that there is a form of encepha- litis after fracture of the skull, similar to that met with after head injuries where no bone lesion has resulted, which is inevitable, despite any treatment ad- dressed to the fracture, and which can be combated by general measures alone. At the other extreme, there are cases where the intracranial injury is so slight as to result, of itselfin little further trouble, but such cases prove fatal from the constant “ fretting” of the brain and its membranes by displaced frag- ments of bone. The only proper treatment for these cases manifestly is to remove the source of irritation, and with it almost the only cause of inflam- matory mischief. In the first class of cases, as elevation of fragments cannot remove precedent injury of the brain, such a procedure only proves useful liy preventing secondary inflammation due to the irritation of bony spicula. To this class belong most of the fatal cases of primary trephining, where the operation is wrongly tabulated in statistical tables as fatal; the fact being that the operation, being incapable of restoring a lacerated, ruined brain, merely fails to do any good. But there is an intermediate variety, where the meningeal and cerebral injuries are not necessarily fatal in themselves, but are rendered so by the sloughing and inflammation—perhaps avoidable— which are rendered certain l)y leaving depressed, lacerating fragments of bone, goading the tissues; patients thus liurt may recover under the efiect of rest, with removal of every source of irritation. Here extraction or eleva- tion of the depressed fragments of bone, with appropriate general treatment, is clearly indicated.^ ISTon-penetrating incised wounds must be treated as cases of contusion of bone, after careful removal of any foreign substances, such as, for instance, the point of a knife-blade. When a portion of the calvaria has lieen sliced off, carrying with it a broad-based scalp-fiap, according to most authorities it may be safely turned back, and will probably adhere, provided that free drainage be secured.^ AWien the fragment does not seem tirndy connected with the scalp, or wlien the flap-pedicle is narrow, the bone had better be dissected out, and the case then treated as one of compound fracture with loss of bone. Fissures of the skull, simple or compound, do not call for surgical inter- ference unless symptoms of compression from extravasated blood, or at a later period from intra-cranial suppuration, call for operation. In compound depressed fractures, unless the fragments are very slightly de- jH'essed, the bone should be elevated. Such cases, when left to natui’e, must be watclied with the utmost care, for even when tlie outer table seems merely bent down in tlie centre, witlx capillary fissuring of the mai’gins of the depres- sion, extensive sliattering of the inner table may exist. (Figs. 827, 828.) In compound, comminuted, depi'cssed fractures, the surgeon should, in my judgment, always o[ierate xxt once, to prevent intracranud inflammation: in other words, “ preventive trephirdng” should be resorted to. To wait until symptoms of trouble arise, is to wait until operation can rarely be of any ‘ See sections on Cononssion and Contusion of the Brain, and on Encephalitis. * Larrey rejjorts a case where, after replacement of the bone, serious cerebral symptoms arose which compelled him to dissect out the fragment, when recovery took jilace. In another case he was not so fortunate, death following.