HYDATIDS. 104:5 ' iMeil. Communications, vol. i. jiage UH. London, 1784. spleen or kidney may be simultaneously the seat of a hydatid; otherwise the spleen is not enlarged, nor is the urine altered. Though the patient's health may be impaired through the functional disturbance of some neigh- boring viscus, the tumor does not excite fever or other constitutional irri- tation, and does not even materially disturb the proper functions of the liver. iJiagnosis.—The diseases wliich are most lialile to lie confounded with hydatid of the liver, are hepatic abscess; distended gall-ldadder; cystic, and medullary, or other soft, solid tumors of the kidnej’; and efiusion into the right pleural cavity. Aneurism and ascites may also possiblj" give rise to doubt. A large, simple cyst of the liver would be almost, if not quite, indis- tinguishable from a hydatid cyst of that organ; but then such simple cysts are very rare, whereas hydatid cysts are comparatively (piite common. (a) The slow and insidious character of its growth, and the absence of pain and constitutional symptoms, would serve to exclude abscess. If, how- ever, the hydatid cyst should become inflamed, and suppurate, it would present all the local and constitutional characters of aljscess, and the diag- nosis would then depend alone upon the clinical history and the previous long existence of a fluctuating, painless swelling in the hepatic region. The prognosis and treatment in each class of cases would be the same. (b) The shape and position of a distended gall-bladder, its usual moliility in a lateral direction, and the fact that its development is coinmonl}" preceded and accompanied b}" attacks of biliary colic, and frerpicntly by jaundice, will point to its exclusion. It must, hov'ever, be remembered, that a hydatid cyst of the liver may be pendulous, and that the gall-bladder may become distended without attacks of colic or pain of any sort. A case is related^ by Jfr. S. F. Simmons, of a tumor occupying chiefly the left side of the abdomen of a woman; it was diagnosed to be a distended gall-bladder, but on post- mortem examination it turned out to lie an enormous hydatid cyst, contain- ing sixteen pints of hydatids of various sizes. (c) Cystic and soft solid tumors of the kidne}^ generally first present them- selves in the loin, or if on the front of the abdomen, then lower down than the hepatic region. In tlieir early stage, there is often a line of resonance between them and the liver dulness. Sometimes there is evidence in the urine of changed kidney structure and function, but its absence does not at all exclude tumor of this organ. I have seen, in several cases, cystic and solid tumors of the kidney without any sign of renal disease having been fur- nished b}’ the urine; and soft, solid tumors of the kidney, mistaken for hepatic cysts, which have given the elastic if not fluctuating sense of fluid, and which have been as})jrated without result. The rapidity of growth and the marked impairment of health in medullary cancer, sarcoma, and tuberculous disease of the kidney, will serve to distinguish those atfections from a hydatid. {(1) Effusion into the pleura, attended with bulging of the ribs and inter- costal fluctuation, might be suspected to lie }iresent, but a jihj^sical examination of the chest and the absence of constitutional sjunptoms would serve to indi- cate the hydatid nature of the swelling. In great pleuritic effusion the liver is pushed down, in hydatid enlargement the lung is })ushed u}>. Hydatid of the liver may, however, cause, or coexist with, the pleuritic effusion. The pain, pulsation, and bellows-rnurmur caused by aneiulsm of the abdo- minal aorta, and tbe same symptoms, together with jaundice, which are caused by aneurism of the hepatic artery; the constitutional cachexia, and the tender, hard, and uneven surface of the liver in cancer of that organ—would assist in distinguishing those diseases. In ascites, the parts of the abdomen which are dull on percussion are the lowest in position, and vary with posture; this is