906 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 2 An Iniiuiry into the Process of Nature in Repairing Injuries of the Intestines, pp. 85, 86. introduced ; it should then be withdrawn before tightening the last suture. If the omentum or bowel be left projecting at the wound, the edges should be brought together only in part by sutures. It is not necessary to stitch'the bowel or omentum to the wound, and no ligature should be left projectino- at the wound if the stump of tied omentum is returned into the cavity. Penetrating Wounds with Protrusion of Injured Organs.—In these we have the additional complication of a wounded viscus, which, as regards protrusion, may he in any one of the conditions described in the foregoing section. It will only be necessary to refer here to the various kinds of wounds of the viscera, and their treatment and results, without reiterating the remarks relative to protrusion. The ap])earances of tcoiinded irdestine have been described by Haller,* Benjamin and John Bell, Travers, Gross, and many others. Travers^ writes, “ before adverting to the consequences of wounds inflicted upon the exposed intestine, it will be necessary to describe certain appearances which the wounds exhibit, depending upon the action of the bowel. If a gut be punctured, the elasticity of the peritoneum and the contraction of the muscular flbres open the wound, and the villous or mucous coat forms a sort of hernial protrusion and obliterates the aper- ture. If an incised wound be made, the edges are drawn asunder and reverted, so that the'mucous coat is elevated in the form of a fleshy lip. If the section be transverse the lip is broad and bulbous, and acquires tumefac- tion and redness from the contraction of the circular flbres behind it, which produces, relatively to the everted ])ortioii, the appearance of a cervix. If the incision is according to the length of the cylinder the lip is narrow, and the contraction of the adjacent longitudinal, resisting that of the circular flbres, gives the oriflce an oval form. This eversion and contraction is pro- duced by that series of motions which constitute the peristaltic action of the intestines.” From his experiments, he concludes that, if the gut is cut across, the oriflce to some extent opens and closes alternately by the muscular mo- tions of the bowel, so that the contents are alternately ejected and arrested; if the wound is longitudinal, that is, in the axis of the bowel, the aperture remains patent, there is but little alternate contraction and dilatation, and the contents issue freely. In the punctured wound, the mucous coat is everted and constantly Alls the opening, and is elevated somewhat above the peritoneal surface ; “ it was the only form of w'ound not followed by ett’usion. In the lacerated wound, tlie eversion was so slight as to be scarcely perceptible.” There is less tendency for transverse than there is for longi- tudinal wounds of the bowel to be s})ontaneously repaired, owing to the greater disposition of tlie edges of the transverse wound to recede from one another, and to have their mucous coats everted; thus, union by adhesive inflammation is frustrated. Treatment.—If the wound he a small one, of the punctured variety, there is hut little danger that the contents of the bowel will escape, and many dis- tinguished surgeons have recommended that no ligature should he applied ; but Le Bran, Benjamin Bell, Travers, Astley Coo})er, Key, Boland, and many modern surgeons, have advised the application of a ligature before returning the bowel, so as to avoid the risk of extravasation. If the wound be small, the ligature may be applied around it in the same way that a string is tied around the neck of a sac, and the ends of the ligature should be cut short. If the wound be larger, it is better to close it with a continuous suture, using a small, round, sewing needle, armed with a tine silk thread, the ends of which ' Element. I’liysiol., lib. xxiv. sect. 2, ami Opera Minora, tom. i. sect. 15.