CEREBRAL LOCALIZATION. 91 to apply the trephine according to the present state of science. These state- ments are subject to revision with advancing knowledge. Let the surgeon never forget that it is often necessary to remove large portions of bone to free the injured centres, and to obviate secondary inflammation. Following Gross and Seguin, I shall now proceed to give certain general indications and contra-indications. Indications.—When hemiplegia occurs after a blow upon the head, or hemiplegia with hemispasm, however slight lie the injury—provided that it is in the temporo-parietal region, even although it be not directly over the motor area—the surgeon is justified in exploring that area. In the coma resulting from intracranial hemorrhage—from the middle meningeal artery for instance, as already pointed out—cerebral localization should guide the surgeon’s hand unless in those instances where the effusion is so large as to present no limited compression-symptoms, when the operation should be conducted upon the principles laid down when considering intra- cranial extravasations of blood.* In those cases where the paralysis is on the side of injury, that is, the result of hemorrhage or fracture liy counter- stroke, provided that laceration of the brain seem improbable, an operation over the motor area of the side opposite to that of injury would seem indicated. This must he a rare condition, and is too often complicated Avith cerebral laceration at or near the site of the external injury itselt? Contra-indications.—Lesions of the base of the brain, as indicated by paralysis of one or more cranial nerves, neuro-retinitis, or Cheyne-Stokes respiration, I consider, with Gross and Seguin, to be positive contra-indications in otherwise favorable eases. Hemiplegia accompanied by marked anaesthesia contra-indicates operation, as the latter symptom indicates lesions which implicate other portions of the encephalon than the motor area, and Avhich are too deeply seated to be acces- sible to operative interference. How is the line Avhich corresponds to the fissure of Rolando to he mapped out in the living head ? There are several methods, the least complex of which I shall now describe. The head should be shaved, and then placed so that the alveolo-condyloid plane shall be horizontal. With a little care this can be readily done, even with the patient lying down. The next and most important point is to find the bregma. This can oftentimes he felt,* hut there are two devices which render its detection certain. The most accurate is the “flexible scpiare” of Broca. (Fig. 832.) A little behind the point of junction of the arms Is a smooth, conical plug, which is to he introduced into the external auditory meatus. The horizontal branch of the scpiare is then placed beneath the column of the nose (as in Fig. 833), when the posterior border of the vertical arm will indicate the bregma. According to Broca, the bregma is at the front border of this line, but Lucas-Cliampionniere has ascertained that this }»oint is too far forwards. A ready method of finding the bregma, suggested by the latter autlior, is indicated in Fig. 834. A piece of pasteboard is cut out so as to fit the shaved head, astride of wliicli it is placed, passing across both auditory meatuses. A pencil is })assed through it at right angles, at the level of the eyes, so as to ascertain whether the head is in a horizontal posi- tion ; the middle of the pasteboard, marked B, will then indicate the bregma. Having determined this all-essential point, measure hackAvards 5.5 centi- 1 See page 44, supra. I must here express my iiideLteduess to the monograph of M. Lucas- Championiiiere, and to the summary of the subject hy Dr. Seguin in the last edition of Prof. Gross’s System of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 41 el seq. “ See Prof. S. W. Gross’s case, page 46, supra.