INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 910 (To not always involve the subjacent viscera, is due to the readiness with which these are displaced. But the question at once arises, if the stomach or intes- tines are wounded, and their contents are not evacuated externally, whether they will escape into the abdomen. ISTow in these wounds, as in those followed by protrusion, the viscera ma}’ be either punctured, incised, contused, or lacerated; and much depends upon the character of the wound as to whether etfusion of the contents will occur or not. Other circumstances also influence this event. Thus, if the intestinal tube be full, or nearly so ; if the wound he large; if it he in the longitudinal axis of the bowel, so that the circular fibres cause it to gape instead of to contract, as is the case in a tranverse wound ; or if the o])ening he lacerated, or ulcerated, so that the mucous coat does not pro- trude through the wound in the other coats, the contents will escape i-apidly. Whereas, if tlie tube be empty, or nearl}" so, and the wound be a punctured or small incised one, there will he little if any tendency to extravasation. The equal and uniform ])ressure within the abdomen opposes an efficient, though passive, resistance to the effusion of fhe visceral contents, and this too even in cases in which the wounds are not of very small size. Effusion may be anticijiated in proportion to the degree in which this passive resistance is overcome by the circumstances of the injury ; thus, if the gut he full and the wound extensive, there is little or none of this passive resistance to the natural action of the liowel to exjiel its contents. There seems abundant proof from ex[)eriments and reported cases, that effusion does not usually occur unless these two conditions (repletion and extensive wound) are combined ; hut an exception must he made as to cases in which air or blood has been extrava- sated into the abdomen at the time of the injury. That the integrity of the abdominal parietes does not prevent the escape of the intestinal contents, is proved by the greater frequenew of effusion in cases in which, without any injury to the abdominal walls, the bowels or stomach are ruptured, or perfo- rated b}' ulcers, or by worms or other foreign bodies. The explanation of this is to be found in the nature of the injiuy to the bowel. A rupture by con- cussion or compression, is seldom of small size, and, as a rule, takes place when the tube is distended ; and a perforation by ulcer, being attended by a loss of substance more extensive on the mucous than on the peritoneal surface, is not a mere solution of continuity like a puncture or incision. On the other hand, effusion is not facilitated by the division of the parietes, uidess the opening be large enough to adm'it of prolajise. There is no lack of cases in which recovery has followed after the abdomen has been conq)letel}' transfixed sword, bayonet, or fire-arm missile; or aftei’ a yienetrating wound followed by the y)assage of the instrutnent by the anus. Travers' has collected many such, in some of which the y)atients were up and about by the eighth or tenth day. Wiseman inferred that in these cases the wea})on “ yjasseth through the body without wounding any considerable part.” Garangeot thought likewise. But thanks to exyieriments and accurate pathological observations, we see now, as John BelP wrote, “ how this is to be ex])lained ; for we know that in a thrust across the abdomen, six turns of intestine ma}" be wounded, and each wound maj’ adhere ; adhesion, we know, is begun in a few hours, and is perfected in a few days ; and when it is perfect, all danger of inflammation is over; and ivhen the danger of inflammation is over, the yiatient maj' walk abroad ; so that we may do just as old Wiseman did in this case, ‘ bleed him, and advise him to keep his bed and be quiet.’ ” It is surprising that John Hunter, though he recognized the fact that wounded intestines quickly adhered to one another, “ especially near to the woundsand though he described in detail ■ Op. cit., pp. 29-35 and 59-65. s Op. cit., p. 330.