730 MORBID GROWTHS OF THE LARYNX. sionally excites consecutive disease in otlier organs.’ The grow’th may lie first developed in the interior of the larynx {intrinsic carcinoina, Ivrishaber), or in the epiglottis an<l the external wall {extrinsic carcinoma, Ivrishaber). It occurs most frequently as epitbelioma {sqmnno'as-celled carcinoma, Butlin), sometimes as large spheroidal-celled,^ occasionally as small spheroidal-cellecl, and very rarely as cylindrical-cellcd carcinoma. Intrinsic carcinoma, at least at first, is usually unilateral—tlie left side being involved the more fre- ([uently—and begins in the superior portion of the larynx, especiall}- at the vocal band. Afterwards, botli sides liecorne involved. All the infra-glottic tumors cited by Butlin,^ five in number, ivere situated immediately l)eneath the vocal band. The disease seldom extends to the oeso[)hagus, or penetrates externally. Extrinsic carcinoma affects tlie epiglottis most frequently, and occasionally exclusively. It has been known to begin in tlie cutaneous cicatrix following thyroidal laryngotomy.’ Carcinoma rarely remains circumscribed, for its tendency is to infiltrate and destroy all tlie tissues of the larynx, and the tissues immediately con- tiguous, extending at times into the pharynx or out upon tlie neck. The large spheroidal-eelled variety exhibits greater tendency to ulceration extend- ing to adjoining tissues, the squamous-celled variety greater tendency to ulcerative destruction of its own mass; hence hemorrhage often results, always exhausting, occasionally fatal. Perichondritis, abscess, necrosis, and fistula occur in some cases of long standing. Lymphatic involvement is not constant with any variety, and is much less frequent in intrinsic than in extrinsic carcinoma. Carcinoma is far tlie more frequent in adults, and in greatest frequency between the ages of fifty and seventy. Yet it has been detected during the very first year of life,® and at three years,® and has occurred as late as at eiglity- two years.^ It is much the more frequent in males—in the proportion of three to one, according to some compilations, and in much greater proportion according to others. This preponderance has suggested an impression® that the larynx of the male may be subject to some undetermined influence which in females diverts carcinoma to the uterus. Possibly the pleasures of the table, the vices of the tavern, the greater use and abuse of the voice, and the greater exposure to cold, on the part of men, may be factors in its etiology. A severe cold is often mentioned as the starting-point, and chronic laryngitis eertainly precedes the disease in many cases. Traumatism is an occasional exciting cause.® Benign growths are sometimes followed by malign ones; occasionally in apparent recurrence,'® occasionally as the direct result of intra-laryngeal med- dling, occasionally as the ap[)arent result of long-continued irritation in the functional activity of the larynx. Gussenbauer" bas bad occasion to excise the larynx, for recurrent carcinoma, from an individual in whom twenty years before Ozermak had detected, laryngoscopicalljq a small, circumscribed * Sands, New York Med. Jom-n., p. 110. 1870; Desnos, Bull, de la Soc. d’Anat., 4e ser., t. Hi. p. 398. 1878. (Cited by Butlin.) ® Fauvel (op. cit., p. 689) reiiorts 16 oases of epithelioma and 19 of encephaloid, out of a total of 37 cases of primary carcinoma, the nature of two of which was doubtful. ® Op. cit., p. 36. * Cohen, Transactions of the American Laryngological Association, p. 113. 1883. * Dufour, Bull, de la Soc. d’Anat., p. 03. i860. Rehn, Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. xliii. S. 129. 1868. ^ Preisendoerfer, Berliner klin. Woch., Nos. 43 und 48. 1878. ® Fauvel, op. cit., p. 696. ® Demarcpiay, cited by Blanc (Etude sirr le cancer primitif du larynx, p. 57. Paris, 1872) ; Cohen, Transactions of the Pathological Society of Philadelphia, vol. vii. p. 82. 1879 ; Transac- tions of tlie American Laryngological Association, vol. v. p. 117. 1883. Clinton Wagner, Archives of Laryngology, April, 1883, j). 130. Prager medicinische Wochensclirift, No. 31, 1883.