INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 18G seldom does. Indeed, in the worst cases of acute glaueoina, the vitreous is so turbid and the cornea so dull, that no ophthalmoscopic inspection of the fundus is possible. Yet our diagnosis need be none the less positive. Iritis in all forms and degrees can be made out, beyond a doubt, bj^ ordi- nary scrutiny, aided by atropine and oblique illumination. If cyclitis, or choroiditis, or optic neuritis exist with it, the eye is usually too tender to light, even if the vitreous be clear, to admit of a protracted use of the re- flector. The functional tests of vision, in a moderate light, will give a rea- sonahle clue to- the integrity of the fundus. If the defect of sight be out of proportion to the changes i)i the iris, pupil, and aqueous humor, we infer a deep-seated complication. Increased tension in such a case means glaucomay and the reverse indicates cyclitis. Of course, all alterations of trans[)arency and shape in. the cornexi are per- fectly ascertained by the usual means, oblique illumination and functional tests of vision. There is no excuse for mistaken diagnosis between these and cataract, and the ophthalmoscope alone is very liable to lead to error. How many hundreds of patients are referred to specialists for “ disease of the optic nerve,” where the fundus is absolutely sound, and where a rational diagnosis might and should have been made without the mirror! These are cases of asthenopia., with very characteristic symptoms. Painful fatigue of eyes, Idurring of vision and difficulty in reading after a few moments’ close ap- plication, heaviness of the lids and frequent desire to close and rub them, are the most constant burden of complaint. The sufferings are always aggravated h}^ persistent, close use of the eyes, sedentary habits, nervous temperament, anaemia, and the multiform manifestations of hysteria. People thus affected are usually still young in years, but old in complaints. In females, it is very apt to be an accompaniment of uterine disturbances, and increased by causes of debility. The patient has been a victim of these painful troubles and fore- bodings, perhaps, for many years, and still has perfect sight when hrieffy tried. Por a few seconds he reads the finest print, and has perfect definition for dis- tance, but then the sight wavers. How can a serious lesion of the optic nerve, or of any other important part of the eye, persist so long, give so much pain and worry, and still leave the sight ])erfect? Real diseases of the optic nerve, in their entire course to total blindness, are attended by little or no pain. This is true of many of the worst diseases of the retina and the cho- roid. Let us look into some of these eases by common aids, and gui,ded by a modicum of mother wit. Outwardly the eyes hwk healthjn Tested sepa- rately, the sight of the two eyes is equal and perfect for distance. The patient reads the smallest diamond type distinctly for a few moments. Then the letters mix, blur, and the eyes become painful. So he desists, and closes and nibs his eyes. There is probably some anomaly of refraction, producing fatigue of accommodation. Convex glasses, one dioptric (37 inches focus) clear the print and enable liim to read longer without fatigue and glimmer- ing. He cannot be myopic, but may be, probabl}^ is, hyperopic. Purther investigation must now he made to settle that question. Rut of this you may be certain. The patient has no disease of the optic nerve, nor other affec- tion that is going to lead to blindness. You can set his mind at rest on that point. If distant vision is inq)erfect, and near work quite clear, he may he myopic, and the necessary investigation should be made. If in any case, the sight of the two eyes is materially different, they must be examined sepa- rately, and the vision equalized if possible. If the vision is veiy bad in one, and perfect or nearly so in the other, then there may have been a congeni- tal difference, or one of long standing, l)ut just now found out. If both eyes are bad for all distances, then there may be a marked astigmatism or other trouble requiring the ophthahnosco})e and means of investigation not at