54 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. compression of the hemispheres drives the larger fluid contents through the communicating passage into the fourth ventricle, which is of small capacity, the result being, as Duret found, a rupture of the median line of its floor, and a dilatation of the Sylvian acpieduet and the central canal of the cord. This could not occur, according to hydrostatic laws, if the peripheral fluid was as free to move as the intra-ventricular. What does clinical and post-mortem experience show ? That such appearances, much less marked to be sure, are occasionally seen after death, and that similar, but slighter, evanescent lesions would explain in a perfectly satisfactory maimer some of tlie clinical symptoms of concussion. What, however, do we more commonly see in autopsies of con- cussion cases ? Intra-arachnoidean extravasations and eflusions of blood into the meshes of the pia mater, with contusions of the brain-suhstance. Duret shows that these are due to the waves communicated to the subarachnoid fluid, Avhich distends the meshes supporting the bloodvessels, thus resulting in the latter’s rupture. This satisfactorily explains the causation of many of these extravasations, but some of these injuries are due to direct transmission of vibrations through the cranial walls. Drom thcAvide distribution of the cere- hro-spinal fluid, it is clear how force acting u})on and through it, produces disseminated lesions. Itecalling the fact that the small cerebral arterioles are surrounded by minute prolongations of the subarachnoid space, that is, lymph- sheaths, a ready, and indeed the only, satisfactory explanation of the dissemi- nated form of minute cerebral extravasations is at once found. The impulse of the blow causes distension of the ])eriAuiscular sheaths, whereby the arterioles are directly compressed, and the capillaries indirectly through the brain-sub- stance ; when the pressure is rapidly removed, as when the force ceases to act, “ the vessels hurst from the unopposed tension of their contents.” An equally beautiful explanation of most of the symptoms of concussion is aflbrded liy Duret’s observations. From contraction of the arteries, resulting from spasm of their muscular coats, the venous tension at once falls, producing an in- tense cerebral anaemia which causes the primary loss of consciousness. The spasmodic arterial contractioid is followed by a paretic dilatation Avhich may prolong the loss of consciousness. If this he followed hj^ a generalized inflammation, the unconsciousness may he prolonged until death. VieAved in the light of these experiments, further explanation of the phe- nomena of cerebral concussion will be unnecessaiy, and 1 shall define concussion of the brain as “ An assemblage of sym})toms by which we recognize that a sudden aiTest or suspension of the cerebral functions has taken place, the result of a commotion of the cranial contents, which may he produced, directly, by force applied to the liead, or, indirectly, by an impulse transmitted through the spinal column, as by a fall from a height upon the feet, knees, or but- tocks.” Many authors teach that slight cerebral concussion, as evidenced by a momentary loss of consciousness and muscular power, followed by an apparent immediate return to the normal state, is produced by “cerebral vibration without visible lesion,” and is due to “a simple molecular disturbance of the 1 Huguenin, following Fischer, teaches that concussion is due to a reflex paralysis of the intracranial vessels, the result of a powerful peripheral irritation. Antemia of the arteries and hypersemia of the veins, he says, are tlie only constant post-mortem appearances found in con- cussion. (See Ziemssen, op. cit., vol. xii.) Duret maintains that there is an intense spasm of all the muscles in concussion, which is so transient as generally to he overlooked, hut the vas- cular spasm, from contraction of the muscular coat of the arteries, is more persistent; obstruction is offered to the blood-current; the tension in the veins is enormously decreased ; and most marked anaemia of the brain, with the primary symptoms of concussion, results. The congestion is secondary, the result of paretic or inflammatory dilatation from the irritation of the numerous hemorrhagic lesions. It will be thus seen that the latest experimenters have practically arrived at the same results.