400 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. rally flows from one uostril only—and most frequently from the anterior third of one of the nasal fossre—compressing the corresponding facial artery on the superior maxillary bone, near the ala of the nose, will usually check it. The well-known expedient of inserting a tight paper roll under the upper lip will be remembered. Compression of the common carotid artery upori-the bleed- ing side is also recommended. If these simple means fail, the nasal passage may be tightly packed with small pledgets of lint, fastened to strings to facili- tate removal, with plugs of borated cotton, or absorbent cotton medicated with various astringents, or with bibulous paper. Leeper^ advises the use of soluble bougies containing some styptic, and Thompson and Smyly, the intro- duction of strips of lint for the purpose of absorbing fluid and favoring co- agidation; Curtin’* sprinkles these strips with tannin previous to their intro- duction, and Gilruth^ soaks them in perchloride of iron ; but Frank believes that their efficacy depends upon the compression of the parts which they exercise, rather than upon their astringent qualities, and recommends that they be twisted to a large size previous to their introduction. The insuffla- tion into the nares of astringent powders, and the injection of solutions of various astringents, mineral or vegetable, such as alum, iron, zinc sulphate, acetate of lead, gallic or tannic acid, or decoctions of krameria, have long been employed. Crequy^ has devised an excellent syringe for injecting the nostril: a canula, inches in length and with a rounded extremity, is fitted to an ordinary syringe, the canula being perforated its entire length by a series of small holes, in spiral succession, and directed backwards so as to emit small retrograde jets. The injected fluid is thus thrown upon the mucous surfaces of the passage, and does not pass into the pharynx. Injec- tions are, however, if carelessly used, not devoid of danger. Malherbe® re- ports an instance where death from pulmonary gangrene followed pharyngitis and laryngo-bronchitis, the result of injections of perchloride of iron into the nasal cavities; and Gaillard® details a somewhat similar case. Should the means thus far alluded to fail in checking the hemorrhage, or should it, for any reason, be deemed desirable not to wait for their somewhat slow action, both the posterior and anterior nares should be plugged. This operation is readily effected by means of a Bellocq’s canula ; or, in default of this, a flexible catheter, with the stylet removed and a string fastened to its eye, will answer the same purpose and can be used in the same way. Bellocq’s canula, the instrument commonly employed, is undoubtedly familiar to every practitioner. The canula having been passed back into the nostril, as soon as the watch-spring which it incloses has been pushed forwards, and its rounded end appears behind the soft palate and enters the pharynx, the double string with which it is threaded is seized and drawn out of the mouth. A graduated, conical compress of lint is now attached to the double string, which is passed through its middle, and being guided in its passage behind the soft ])alate by the finger, is drawn tightly up into its proper position in the affected naris, by the simple withdrawal of the canula from the nose. The anterior plug is now introduced, and the two ends of the string tied over it, to hold all snug. All possibility of further hemorrhage is in this way effectu- ally prevented. These plugs should not remain in position too long: Gross’' mentions that he has seen several cases terminate fatally with low fever and delirium, from systemic poisoning produced by tlieir too long retention. Codes has seen tetanus follow from the same cause, and Habershon® pyaemia. • Dub. Jonr. Med. Sci., Nov. 1873, p. 364. ^ pinla. Med. Times, Aug. 1, 1872. 3 Lancet, vol. ii. p. 775. 1871. '' Dub. Jour. Med. Sci., Oct. 1877, p. 366. s Jour, de Med. de I’Ouest, tome xiv. p. 108. 1880. ® Courrier Medicale, tome xxxi. p. 238. 1881. t Op. cit. ® Lancet, Feb. 27, 1875.