302 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. Treatment.—If it lie admitted tliat neither the patient’s life nor his hearing power is threatened, the chief indication will clearly he to relieve his suf- fering. It is a disputed point how this may best he accomplished. Some of the highest authorities unhesitatingly advise the early employment of the knife. My own experience, however, leads me to adopt the rule laid down hy Wilde; “As soon as we believe matter has formed and come some waj' to the surface, hut not till then, we should make an incision.” I prefer, as a rule, to wait and let the abscess open hy natural processes; and, as a means of hastening these, and also for the purpose of mitigating the patient’s suffering in the mean time, I am in the habit of prescribing hot poultices. These should be of sufficient size to cover the entire region of the ear (say 5 or 6 inches scpiare), and they should be renewed at frecpient intervals. While the ffaxseed-meal poultice is perhaps the best that can he used for this purpose, there are various substitutes which will be found to answer almost equally well; for example, a rubber-bag filled with hot w^ater, a flannel or muslin pillow filled with dried hops and heated in the oven or in front of a hot open-grate fire, hot bran bags, a large sponge or several thicknesses of flannel wu’ung out of hot water, and so on. I have very little faith in the local use of anodynes, and the introduction of glycerine, sweet-oil, or almond-oil, commends itself still less to my judg- ment. Glycerine is by no means a bland and soothing fluid, and the oils may furnish a nidus for the subsequent development of the peyiidliiim glaucurn, or some other variety of fungous growth, Mdiich the surgeon may find it diffi- cult to dislodge. Vaseline, on the other hand, may be used with impunity in the ear. Local blood-letting by means of leeches is very apt to fail in this form of disease, and I do not often resort to its use if I am sure of my diagnosis. In acute affections of the middle ear it is a much more valuable remedy. If the knife lie employed, the best pattern for this special purpose is a curved, sharp-|iointed bistoury. If the swelling is well defined, the incision should be made through the centre of it, the point of the knife being carried from within outward. The operation should be performed under illumination from the forehead-mirror, and the incision should be made of such a length and depth as will afford a free exit to the pus. If the swelling is not well defined, my plan is to introduce a cotton-holder, well jirotected wdth cotton, into the swollen canal, and then to exert pressure in different directions. The region of greatest tenderness is that into which I make the incision. It is well to have at hand a large sponge and a basin filled with hot water. Imme- diately after the incision has been made, the hot and moist sponge should be held against the ear, for the purpose of quieting tlie pain, which for a few minutes is generally very acute. When the jiain subsides, dry warmth may lie substituted for the hot and moist application. The only objection to the prolonged use of moist heat under these circumstances is, that it favors the development of granulation-tissue in the wound, and is also apt to set up a painful inflammation of the auricle. Diffuse Inflammation.—Under the head of “diffuse inflammation of the external auditory canal,” may be grouped the diflercnt pathological condi- tions to wdiich the names “ otitis externa diffusa,” “periostitis,” “eczema,” “ desquamative inflammation,” and “otomycosis,” or “parasitic disease of the external auditory canal,” are commonly applied. It is not always easy to separate tliese different conditions, and to apply to them their pro}>er distin- guishing terms. In fact, it is only in a few typical cases that a distinct line of separation can be drawn. Furthermore, no great scientific or practical gain