STRABISMUS. 259 niittent, there is perhaps always double vision. But by a mental process of abstraction, the patient soon learns to ignore or suppress the image of the crooked eye, and thus gets rid of the horror of diplopia. This process is favored by a variety of circumstances. If the srpiint begins as early as the tirst or second year, before the habit of binocular vision is solidly formed, the habit is soon broken up in the interest of single vision. Children learn and unlearn habits far more readily than older persons. Then one eye is often much more imperfect in sight than the othei’. It is a fiict that many children are born with this ditference, and that many such become strabismic. In that case, the child squints with the naturally defective eye. The more marked the difference in distinctness of vision between the two eyes, the easier it becomes to fix the attention exclusively on the sharp image, and to ignore the dim one. In the great majority of cases of confirmed squint, except when it is alter- nating, the constantly deviating eye will be found defective in sight. The am- blyopia is often so great that the patient cannot read even capital letters. The fixing eye will be found better, and generally perfect in sight. It has long been assumed that the defective vision in such cases is due to disuse of the eye—aiti- bbjopia ex anopsia. While this may be true in part, there is reason to believe that in many cases the defective sight has existed before the deviation, and has played, perhaps, an important part in determining it. According to Schweig- ger, for one hundred and seventy-seven strabismic patients with one-sided aniblyo[)ia, there will be found ninety-eight with a similar visual defect in one eye, without strabismus. Of these ninety^-eight patients, forty-seven per cent, will be found hyperopic, showing that hyperopia and amblyopia may exist together, without giving rise, necessarily, to squint. It is quite probable that the long-continued disuse of the squinting eye may increase" a natural and pre-existing defect of vision. In consequence of this disparity, binocular vision may never have been learned at all, or but imperfectly, and in case of squint, it is readily uidearned. Strabismus is essentially a disease of childhood or early life, while paralytic affections })revail more among adults, where single vision with two eyes has become a long and imperious habit. A con- firmed habit, good or bad, is hard to shake off, however important the interests involved. Hence the diplopia of paralysis is constant and very harassing, and it persists as long as the cause endures. In intra-uterine paralysis or congenital absence of one of the recti muscles, di[)lopia never occurs. Persons thus affected learn to blend the images where both eyes command the field, and to suppress that of the lagging eye in other directions. I recall the case of a woman, forty years old, whom I treated for retinitis albaminarica.,ivom which she recovered with perfect vision in both eyes. I discovered that the right eye could not be rotated outwards at all, and expected to find corresponding dqilopia with ex- aggerated secondary deviation of the left eye. But neither symptom had ever been present. It had always been so, and I found binocular vision in the median line and to the left, and monocular single vision to the rigid. In looking at objects to the right, she used the left eye and suppressed the image of the right. I have receidly examined a young man whose eyes present a similar condition of affairs. Causes of Strabismus.—Till the time of Bonders, the etiology of squint was a matter of vague conjecture. The most absurd explanations were often detailed with great assurance, and still are, even by some physicians. Bonders demonstrated that in two-thirds of the cases of convergent squint, there was hyperopia,an anomaly of refraction imi)Osing constant strain of accommodation, d’hc constantly associated actions of convergence and accommodation, and the possibility of exaggerating either by emphasizing the other, were so fully