CROUP AND DIPHTHERIA. 707 Suction with a syringe, tlie nozzle of which has been encircled at a conve- nient point with a section of rubber tubing just thick enough to fill the incision nicely, is an admirable substitute for suction by the month, the risk from which is unjustifiable, even though performed through the medium of a catheter with a globular offset at the side, to catch the matters withdrawn and thus protect the mouth. A flexible catheter may be attached to the nozzle of the syringe, and may be introduced into the trachea after rein- forcement with rubber tubing to occlude the artificial orifice. On drawing the piston of the syringe, fragments in contact with the eyes of the catheter are apt to become engaged therein, and may thus be readily withdrawn. Fur- thermore, the cough wliich is excited sometimes drives obstructing products through the artificial opening. It is desirable to explore each primitive bron- chus in turn. This surgical clearance is far preferable to the slow clearance following the usual dependence upon natui'e’s unaided efforts. It adds little local irritation, if any, and diminishes the sources of exhaustion. Re-accumu- lations of pseudo-membrane, resisting voluntary expulsion l:>y cough, should be subjected at intervals to gentle manipulations of the same kind. Even the mere introduction of an elastic catheter sometimes excites expulsive cough with discharge of membrane, blood, and mucus. Foreign products having been withdrawn, the rpiestion arises as to the best method of keeping the artificial opening patulous. If the surgeon, or an ei[ually responsible and efficient substitute, will remain by the patient for a few hours, the retractors may be retained in position without any attempt to introduce the canula. This practice will facilitate expulsion of membranes, a process always im- peded to some extent by a tube in the trachea, the presence of wliicli renders it necessary that any matters ex})elled shall be driven through it. Thus many ineffectual paroxysms of coughing, often exhausting to the patient, precede the successful one which gives relief. In a few hours, howevei’, the permanent method of kee[)ing the trachea open is to be decided on. In most instances, the delay recommended above is not made, but the perma- nent arrangements closely follow the operation. They depend somewhat on the character of tlie operative procedure which has been adopted. The ope- ration in frequent practice is longitudinal incision of the tmchea in the me- dian line, for a distance comprising three interspaces or even three rings. Most surgeons incise the trachea as high as possible; others as low as possible. Some divide the cricoid cartilage; others the cricoid cartilage and a ring or more of the trachea. Some excise a portion of the anterior wall of the tra- chea, the incision being elliptic, oval, rectangular, or diamond-shaped. Some excise the anterior wall of the cricoid cartilage, whether with preservation of its perichondrium or without. Division of the cricoid-thyroid membrane is rarely practised in croup and diphtheria. The majority of operators intro- duce a rigid, curved tube or canula into the trachea, whether incision or ex- cision has been practised. Some dis[)ense with a tube altogether, and, when excision has not been practised, resort to hooks and ligatures to keep the opening patulous. It would be very desirable to dispense with a tube ; but so great is tlie risk that the orifice in the tracliea may become overlaid by the soft parts in some of the movements of the child, especially during sleep, and thus suffocate the patient, that continuous supervision of the 0])ening is essentially requisite. The attention of the best of nurses, trained or domestic, is occasionally unwittingly drawn from the orifice, and, during such inatfen- tion, suffocation may take place. It is, therefore, safest to employ a tube. Tlie operation over, the indications remain for continuing the supporting measures and the anti-diphtheritic medicinal treatment already adopted. Tracheotomy saves a patient from death by suffocation. It does not cure the disease.