43 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 3. The condition is one that has thus far been noticed only in young subjects. 4. The accident is quite likely to prove fatal from lepto-meningitis or meningo- encephalitis. 5. Operative interference should be restricted to the removal by aspiration of a limited amount of fluid ; and such aspiration should be made only when severe pressure- symptoms have manifested themselves. 6. A similar fluid accumulation may occur after closure of the external wound of a compound vault-fracture or of a trephining. Separation of Sutures.—When occurring in the cranial vault, these acci- dents are, as a rule, restricted to the young, in whom the skull-hones have not as yet become co-ossitied.* In later life, force aj)plied at the site of an obliter- ated suture may cause a fracture which accurately follows the old sutural line, as in a case recorded by Prof. Agnew.^ In the Wood Museum, Hew York, is a specimen (uncatalogued) where the line of fracture has passed exactly through the obliterated interfrontal suture. The injury resulted from dih fused force, that is, a blow from a sand-hag. A musket-hall may, according to Guthrie, produce separation of a suture of the cranial vault, by impinging directly up)on it with a moderate degree of force, although “ in general it takes place when the ball hajjpens to lodge, as it were, between the hones concerned in the formation of the suture.” Guthrie^ I’eports one case where separation of the sagittal suture was caused by a fall upon the vertex, the patient dropping from his saddle with a bullet-wound of the thorax. In l)asal frac- tures of the skull, the sutures of other parts are not uncommonly separated. In fourteen cases of fracture acconipjanied by sepiaration of sutures, examined by Hewett, the coronal suture was sepiarate<l in seven cases, the lambdoid in six, the sagittal in four, the pietro-occipjital in one, the teinpDoro-piarietal in one, and the spilieno-ptarietal in one. Referring to the great rarity of such acci- dents, he remarks that he has never seen hut one example uncompilicated with fracture. In this case the temp‘)oral hone was slightly septarated and driven up^wards at the back piart of the scpuamoso-tempwral sutui’e, closely simulating a fracture with depression.^ I have lately seen a case where the squamoso- pjarietal suture was sliglitly sepmrated by a bloAV up)on the piarietal, which must have been slightly depiressed, as the squamous p»late was at one point about a lino above the parietal bone. The sagittal (twelve times) and the masto-occiphtal suture (seven times) have been those most commonly sepiarated in the twenty-one spiecimcns of fracture with sutural sepjaration which I have examined. Where a number of sutures have been loosened, a whole hone, as for instance the frontal, may Ijecome almost detached from those around it. P/’oy/iosG.—Sep)aration of sutures is most fi’equently effected by the ap)pili- cation of great force, such as firm compiression of the head between two hard, resisting bodies, falls from a great height, or tlie imp;)act of a spent cannon hall. In consequence, the p:u’Ognosis is very bad,® for the hone-injury is fre- quently complicated liy extensive p)ericranial laceration, or by sep>aration of the dura mater, while at times both these memltranes are freely torn, with lacer- ation and extrusion of the Ijrain-suhstance, which, under such circumstances, may be fouml just beneath the integuments. This, however, is not always the case: in an extensive cranial fracture rep)orted by Hewett, the p)arietals •were widely separated, and at a different level along tlie whole extent of the * Morgagni, however, reports a case in a man sixty years old. ^ Principles and Practice of Hnrgery, vol. i. p. 274. ^ Commentaries on the Surgery of War, tith ed., p. 349. Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. .791. ® Larrey (op. cit., p. 317) rei>orts a case of recovery after separation of the coronal suture, deatli taking place from independent disease, six months afterwards.