687 STRICTURE OP THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. passed a tenotome tlirougli tlie cicatvix, and guided its subserpient move- ments by laiyngoseopic reflection. The galvano-cauteiy, usually considered a safe instrument, is not invariably safe. In one case in wbicb it was em- ployed to divide an adhesion between the epiglottis and the pharynx, hemor- rhage ensued to such an extent as to recpiire ligation of the external carotid artery. ^ In occasional instances, the stenosis seems amenable to dilatation of the simplest character. Thus Ascld cured a ease by dilatation with sounds of flexilile metal. In some cases, indeed, mere utilization of the dilating power of a stream of air through a fenestrated canula has been found suthcient for the purpose.® Methodized dilatation, persistently practised, has produced remarkable results in the hands of Schroetter, of Vienna d und the plan pursued by liim is universally acknowledged to be the most efiective. Before describing this method, allusion must be made to a successful result by Liston,® in a case after suicidal wound of the crico-thyroid membrane, in which he began with bougies no larger than a darning needle, and tinished by inserting a canula equal in diameter to the lai’gest cesophageai tube, which was retained in position for fifteen days. To lessen the saliwation excited by dilating tubes, retained in position for hours or days, Trendelenburg® employs small segments of dilators intended to occupy the larynx only, a strong and firmly attached thread alone protruding from the mouth. The thread excites Fig. 1050. Appliances used liy Schroetter in dilating stenosis of the larynx. less salivation, and conducts much less saliva into the larynx. It is on this principle that Schroetter has based his method. lie accustoms tlie parts to the presence of a catheter or bougie for the first few days—a precautionary manipulation which should not be neglected. He then removes the canula daily, and inserts a catheter through the constriction, allowing it to remain 1 Ileinze, Arcliives of Laryngology, p. 379. 1880. 2 Arcliives of Laryngology, p. 02. 1880. ^ Crerhardt, Arch. f. kiln. Med., Bd. xli. 1873. Laryngologisclie Mittlieilungen, S. 32. tVien, 1875 ; Beitrag zur Behaudlung der Larynx- stenoseii. Wien, 1876. 5 Edinburgli Med. and Snrg. .Tonr., vol. xxix. p. 118. 1828. ® Arch. f. klin. Chir., Bd. xiii. S. 334.