849 MALIGNANT TUMORS. of the abdominal wall, and occasionally the skin over the shoulders, hack, and arms, the so-called cancer “ en culrasse.” AVheii ulceration takes place, it spreads more or less rapidly, and may be associated with sloughing; so that the tissues ma}" lie destroyed by both of tliese processes. In rare cases the whole diseased mass perishes, the slough or sloughs separate, and the ulcer heals. Associated with ulceration there may be fungation of the growth, but this is much more common in the medullary form of cancer. Occasionally the ulcerated surface of a cancer will heal at one point while the disease is progressing at another. The muscles, fasciae, and even the neighboring bones, may become involved by intiltration of the cancerous material, and in such cases the breast is usually very adherent to the deeper parts. The disease may so seriously aflect the pectoral muscles as to form in them a tumor of considerable size. The pleura and lungs may become involved, either by direct extension of the disease through the lymphatic system, or more rarely through the bloodvessels, or in both of these ways. The other internal organs, and distant tissues, are most frequently infected through the lymphatic system, but occasionally through the general circu- lation. Medullary Cancer.—As has already been mentioned, tins form of cancer occurs in the breast in about five per cent, of all cases. It has usually Ijeen described as occurring as a rule at an earlier age than scirrhus, but, accord- ing to Gross, “ it occurs as early as 29 and as late as 09 years, the average being .50. Twenty per cent, of all cases are met with before 40, and eighty per cent, after that age, while exactly one-half occur after 50.” The tendency of this disease is to run its course more quickly than scirrhus, to attain a larger size, to affect the skin earlier, to ulcerate, fuugate, and bleed more frequently, and to cause a greater enlargement of the lymphatic glands. According to Gross, local recurience takes jilace “within three months after removal, in 81.81 per cent, of all cases. IMetastatic growths are always dis- covered on post-mortem inspection, and are preceded by taint of the glands of the axilla in three-fourths of the instances, and the total duration of life without surgical intervention is oidy eight months.” These growths are usually more or less loliulated ; they may be at first firm to the touch, or they may be from the beginning soft and elastic. They become softer as they grow, and often fluctuate at one or more points, owing to the formation of cysts in their substance. Thej' have been known to grow to the size of a child’s head in the course of a few weeks or months. Treatment of Cancer of the Breast.—As no medical or local treatment short of the removal of tlie entire growth and breast has as yet liecn discovered for the cure of this disease, the choice of treatment lies between an operation and the employment of some })alliative means to relieve the syiiqitoms. The internal administration of various drugs has been trieil for the alleviation of cancer: among these are arseidc, iron, and iodine, witli their combinations; alkalies, such as ammonia, soda, and potassa; and acids, especially liydro- chloric and phos])horic: but although some of these may be useful in im- proving the condition of the general health, they cannot be said to have any effect upon the disease itself. Various vegetalde infusions have also been lauded in connection with the treatment of cancer, and among these, infusions of the diver grass {Ga.Unm a.parinc) have occasionally been thought to do good. Mr. Cooke' advises a fresh infusion made l»y pouring a pint of boiling water upon two ounces of 1 On Caiicur, its Allies and Counterfeits. VOL. V.—54