CICATRICES OF THE NECK. 691 wounded in the neck die of hemon-hage on the field, but many escape in a marvellous manner, and recover from injuries ivhich at first appear hopeless. Any of the important structures may be hurt, the windpipe and oesophagus may be perforated or carried away, in part or to a wide extent, and one or more of the great nerves, which are here so numerous and important, may be destroyed or so bruised as to fail in their function. It is in the nerves of the upper extremity that this failure is most frequently seen after gunshot wounds, but it would be altogether beyond the scope of this article to do more than refer to these lesions. Sprains of the ISTeck. Sprains of the neck causing pain on movement, especially when the head is drawn liackwards, are not uncommon. It is perhaps in railway accidents that these injuries ai’e most apt to occur. A passenger, sitting reading when a collision takes place, is thrown forward, against his opposite neighbor or on the side of the carriage, striking the crown of his head. The pain is in such cases not confined to the muscles and ligaments of the neck, but shoots into the arms, and may for a time occasion derangement or deficiency of sen- sation, and feebleness in motion. I have lately seen two such cases, within a few days of each other. One patient was hurt, as described, on a railway ; the other was thi’own on his head when hunting, his neck being bent. What ■was somewhat remarkalfie, was that the })ain mostly complained of in each case was strictly confined to the distribution of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and that it could always be aroused by bending the head on the chest, or pressing on the upper part of the neck. It did not disappear in either case for several weeks. Sprains of the neck are to be treated by rest and fixation (sand-bags may be required), with fomentations, and afterwards anodyne embrocations. Cup- ping and blisters may be necessary to remove the after-eliects. Boils and Carbuncles. Tlie hack of the neck is one of the common positions where boils and car- biuides appear. Occasionally they also occur on the sides and front. I'he pain which such affections cause when they invade the indistcnsilde structures of the nape, is very great, and may, with the loss of sleep and want of appetite, produce dangerous weakness. Fatal results occasionally ailse from blood poisoning, as the })us which forms gains ready access to the veins and sinuses of the brain ; and the vertebral canal may be laid 0}ien by the destructive erosion of a carlumcle. Enormous phlegmonous masses are at times seen on the back of the neck, extending from ear to ear, and as they generally occur in persons who from habits or employment are in adepi'aved and depressed state of health (intemperate persons with hepatic and renal atfections, especially), the danger to life is often very imminent. They demand early and decisive care, l)ut their remedies are in all respects those used for similar affections in other regions, and which have been elsewhere described. Cicatrices of the Aeck. Cicatrices may follow burns, wounds, abscesses, or ulcers of the neck, and require careful treatment on account of the unsightly appearance which they