INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. 520 Avorked from the margin of the cleft, using sharp knives bent at a right angle to detacli the periosteum, ivliich ivas then united with sutures. Mr. Avery ivas the first to folloiv his example in England. In 1862,Langenbeck published his experience of operating from the alveolus towards the margin of the cleft, and laid especial stress upon detaching the periosteum, by means of blunt raspatories, to form part of the thickness of the fiap. Having performed this operation on several occasions ivith good success, I can speak well of it, iiotAvithstanding that the incision near the alveolus may, if carried too far back, give rise to troublesome hemorrhage. Two instances in which nearly fatal hemori’hage occurred from the posterior palatine artery, have been recorded by INlr. Howard Marsh,* in both of which the bleeding was successfully arrested by plugging the palatine canal ivith a wooden plug, pushed through the palate. In 1874, Sir William Fergusson brought forward ivhat was then believed to be a new proposal, but was afterwards slioivn to be a revival of a suggestion of Dieftenbach’s—viz., to detach the bony edge of the hard palate ivith a chisel, and to push the two portions of the hard palate toward the median line. In his early cases Fergusson used silk sutures, but he subsequently found that he gained sufficient approximation by stopping the gap made on each side with lint. In this proceeding, the damage done to the parts is con- siderable, and necrosis, Avith some exfoliation, is apt to foiloav. Mr. MasoiF has proposed to limit the action of the chisel by boring holes in the line of incision Avith a bradawl, before the chisel is applied; but even Avith this modification the operation is one of limited application, which has not found favor Avith many surgeons. Although the surgeon Avill not undertake to supply artificial aid himself in eases of deformity of the mouth, it is essential that he should be able to advise his patient in the matter, and possibly direct the dentist or mechanician as to the method to be adopted. In ]\Ir. James Salter’s^ and Mr. Oakley Coles’s'* Avorks, there Avill be found complete historical accounts of the methods adopted by successive practitioners to obviate meehanicall}- the deformities of tlie palate; but for surgical purposes, it Avill be sufficient to say that as regards congenital cleft palate, it is only during the last sixty years that anything like success has been attained. In 1820, M. He la Barre seems first to have employed “elastic gum” in making artificial palates; and in 1828, Mr. Snell made a palate of gold Avith a moA^able velum, Avhich Avas subsequently im- proved by Steam (1845), Sercombe (1857), and Farkinson (1867). All these palates acted simply as obturators—that is, Avere placed beloAV the palate and overlapped the margins of the cleft, thus more or less completely shutting olf the nose from the mouth. In 1864, Hr. Aorman Kingsley, of Kcav York, brought before the Odontological Society of Qreat Britain an artificial palate made entirely of vulcanized rubber, cast in moulds of metal taken from impres- sions in plaster-of-Paris. The velum of soft rubber had the great peculiarity that it fitted betAveen the halves of the split palate, and moved Avith them, at the same time filling up the gap betAveen the palate and back of the pharynx. With this palate, adapted by Mr. Coles, I have seen A^ery remarkable results; but the method has the draAvback that, if applied to patients Avhose groAvth is not complete, frequent alterations are required, in addition to the fact that the soft rubber Avears out and requires reneAiffi. A palate on a totally dif- ferent principle, contrived originally by Hr. Wilhelm SAversen, of Berlin, and lately brought to my notice by Mr. Cakley Coles, appeal’s in many cases to ' Clinical Society’s Transactions, vol. xi. ^ Lancet, Oct. 24, 1874. 3 Dental Pathology and Surgery. London, 1874. '• Deformities of the Mouth. Loudon, 1881.