558 SURGERY OF THE TEETH AND ADJACENT PARTS. permit the entrance of decomposing agents. In well-formed teeth, caries is most likely to begin upon the adjoining surfaces, where food has lodged and fermentation ensued. Caries in the beginning is almost always circumscribed and local, its progress being along the line of the dentinal tubuli, in the direction of the pulp, and more rapid in the dentine than in the enamel, because of its higher organization. The teeth most liable to decay are the bicuspids and molars, upon their adjoining surfaces; and those least liable are the six front teeth upon the lower jaw, with the canines of the upper jaw. There is another manifestation of caries, differing from that already de- scribed, which foi’tunately is not very common, but which is equally disas- trous in its results and more difficult to combat. It shows itself in a general wasting of the buccal or labial surfaces of the teeth, sometimes forming great horizontal grooves near the gum, with clean polished surfaces, and with no trace of decomposed dentine. The usual treatment of circumscribed caries is here seldom applicable. The cause appears to be systemic, and the wasting can only be arrested bj* a change in the general tone of the system ; local and topical remedies are of little avail. Treatment of Caries.—This is almost exclusively surgical and mechanical; medical remedies, independent of other treatment, are of little value. In some exceptional cases of shallow, superficial decay, if the affected part be removed with proper instruments, until sound dentine is reached, and if the new surface be polished, decay will not again set in. But probably in not one case in a thousand treated in this way, can caries be prevented from reap- pearing. As a general statement, there is only one course now know)i which can be regarded as effectual, viz., to cut out the affected part and replace it with some indestructible material which will close the orifice of the cavity absolutely. The choice of the material to be used is of secondary importance. Any- thing which will be permanent and fiuid-tight will meet the conditions, but some substances which have been used are much better suited to the purpose than others. Gold, tin, amalgam, gutta-percha, and plastic materials, such as the oxy- chloride and oxyphosphate of zinc, are in common use. ISTone of these sub- stances, unless possibly the above-named plastic articles, possess any medicinal power upon tooth structure; the benefits derived from their use are purely mechanical—their office is solely to make a tight plug. Gold in the form of foil or crystals has proven to be, in accessible cavities with strong walls, the best material. It will make a filling against which no objection can be urged, except its color, and even in that respect it harmonizes better with tooth-structure than any of the other materials named. Some of the eftbrts of operators in gold have been marvels of skill; by the aggregation of small particles, welded together as the work proceeds, whole crowns of teeth have been built up of pure gold. The discovery of the cohesive property of gold is due to dentistry. But for a large class of cases gold is not applicable, and if used may prove to be the worst material. For large cavities, its intro- duction involves great expenditure of time and force, to condense the filling properly, and consequently great danger of injuring frail walls. In the hands of injudicious though skilful manipulators, gold has frequent^ been pro- ductive of more harm than good. Frail walls have been weakened and shattered, and sooner or later disintegration of tooth-structure has ensued and the tooth been sacrificed. To some of the methods of using gold is attribu- table much of the damage that has occurred. After the discovery that gold could be welded under pressure, the mallet came into general use for condens-