INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 888 (hictioii of poisonous or decomposing material, the peritonitis will certainly take a septic form. iSi/mptoms.—These usually show themselves in from six to thirty-six hours after the injury, and then develop very rapidly. In some cases of injury, and especially after the rupture of any of the abdominal organs, the onset of the symptoms is inimediate, or nearly so. In other eases some days may elapse between the receipt of the injury and the first indication of perito- nitis. The invasion of the inflammation may be masked or retarded by the collapse following the injury, hut as soon as reaction has set in, the local and general symptoms become thoroughly pronounced. Of the local symptoms pain is the earliest, and the most striking and severe. It is sometimes excruciating and unbearable, and may be preceded by a rigor. Commencing at the seat of injury, it may spread over a larger and larger area, until perhaps it pervades the whole abdomen. Pressure, movement of every kind, the acts of vomiting, defecation, and micturition, intensify it. In order to lessen the pain as much as possible, abdominal respiration ceases, and tension on the abdominal walls is sought to be re- lieved by posture; hence the patient lies on his back with the thighs and knees flexed, and sometimes the hands and arms are used to protect the belly from the weight of the bedclothes. The pain is variously described as hot, burning, stabbing, or cutting; and from time to time it is increased by paroxysms of greater intensity, due to the vermicular or spasmodic contrac- tion of the intestines. In exceptional cases the pain is but moderate, and it may be absent altogether. Vomiting is an early and a troublesome symptom, and occurs both spontane- ously and as an ettect of taking anything by the mouth. At first the vomi- ted matter consists of the contents of the stomach and upper part of the intestine, then it becomes of a greenish or dirty brown and watery character, very bitter to the taste; and at a later stage it is occasionally feculent. Eructations and hiccough are not uncommon, and are sometimes distressing ; constipation and gaseous distension of the bowels, owing to the palsied, softened, and oedematous state of the intestinal coats, is the general rule. AVith tlie tympanites are sometimes associated feeble peristaltic movements; and rmnbling or gurgling sounds, or borborygmi, may be heard. The abdo- minal distension varies, both in degree and in rate of increase, being most marked, as a rule, in persons with feeble or lax abdominal parietes. Pefore the distension occurs, the muscles of the abdominal walls are retracted, hard, and rigidly contracted, and even after they become paralyzed, the abdominal walls are still very tense, owing to the rapid inci’ease in the distension of the stomach and intestines. The urine is high colored and loaded with urates, is passed very frefpientl}g and causes scalding. At a later stage, retention super- venes from palsy of the muscular coats of the bladder. The resjflration is (piick, shallow, and entirely thoracic, not diaphragmatic nor abdominal. The irritation of the vaso-motor nerves is excessive, owing to the large area over which they are frequently involved in this disease; and this irritation produces a great ettect upon the heart. The pulse is small, reaching 120- 160, wiry, non-dicrotic, or very slightly dicrotic; and the arteries, even the very small ones, are contracted. The heart is not, however, stimulated thereby to strong, slow contractions, in order to overcome tins resistance to the free flow in the vessels, but heats slowly and feebly. Except as regards rapidity of pulse, the state of the circulation ditters widely from that which is usual in fever.* The pulse has usually a good pressure, but it may after a time ' See Galabin, On the State of tlie Circulation in Acute Diseases. Guy’s Hosp. Rep., 3d series, vol. xix.