1158 HERNIA. difficulty of distinguishing it from an irreducible, or even a strangulated crural hernia, becomes extreme, and may only be cleared up by careful obser- vation of the progress of the case, and of the etfect of aperient remedies. A lipoma may be found in the crural canal, so closely simulating omental hernia as to require an exploratory operation for its distinction and removal. A cystic formation in the crural canal may give rise to similar perplexity. Such cysts may arise trom the sac of a small hernia, which has become cut off by adhesions from the peritoneal cavity, or from degeneration of the lymphatic ducts or glands. They are usually more movable than a real hernia. Other tumors, of an adenoid or sarcomatous nature, may exist in tliis situ- ation, and may be distinguished by the same criteria, viz., their liardness to the touch and lobulation, together with their persistent and steady growth. Psoas, or pelvic, or iliac abscess may simulate crural, as Avell as inguinal hernia, with or without abdominal complications, and may he distinguished by the means already pointed out in the remarks on inguinal hernia. When these means of distinction fail, and the complication of general and abdominal symptoms of a serious character still more perplexes the surgeon, an exploratory incision, under antiseptics, will alone clear up the matter; and this may be extended into an operation foi’ the relief of strangulation, if re- c|uired. “When in intelligent doubt, skilfully operate,” is the pi'oper maxim for safety. Operation for Strangulated Crural Hernia.—The patient having been placed on the operating table, and an aiuesthetic having been administered to its full effect, a final effort should be made with the taxis ; in case of failure, the parts being shaved and the carbolic spray in action, a straight incision of a size proportionate to that of the tumor (averaging tAvo inches long), should be made through the integuments a little to the inner side of the axis of the crural canal. The superficial external pudic, or epigastric, as the case may be, should be secured by twisting, or Avith a small catgut ligature. Then upon a director, the cribriform fascia and femoral sheath should be divided, and the subserous adipose tissue covering the sac carefully opened up to the femoral ligament. The curved hernia-director being carefully passed under this, it must be divided up as far as to the fibres of Poupart’s ligament, and then, in recent eases, an attempt should be made to reduce the contents of the sac by digital manipulation, as recommended by Mr. Luke. If this does not easily succeed in recent cases, and alAAmys in cases Avhere long strangulation or symptoms of mortification have occurred, the sac should at once be opened by i)inchiiig up a portion at the centre, and dividing it Avith the point of the scalpel, placed horizontally ; the contents of the sac should then be examined by passing the finger up to the edge of Gimbernat’s liga- ment on the inside of the boAvel. AThen the stricture is found, the point of the curved hernia-director should be insinuated under the edge of the deep crural ring and Gimbernat’s ligament, and tlie hernia-knife passed, not too deeply, and directed imvards, so as to divide the constricting fibres. The director should tlien be lifted so as to dilate the opening. The omentum and boAvel are next draAvn gently and carefully doAviiAvard so as to examine the constricted parts. Any ulcerated point at the neck of the hernia, opposite the strangulation at Iley’s and Gimhernat’s ligaments, should l)e looked for; adhesions should be carefully separated; and the omentum and boAvel should then be returned into the abdomen, or otherwise treated, as described in the case of inguinal hernia. The same rules as to sphacelated parts, and ulcera- tion or sloughing of the boAvel, are to be folloAved in all cases of strangulated hernia.