40T AFFECTIONS OF THE SEPTUM. subsidence under tlie use of an anti-sypbilitic treatment is the rule, and con- firms the diagnosis. I have had no experience in the injection into the sub- stance of these swellings, of solutions of iodine and iodide of potassium, ergot, or carbolic acid. External applications are of little avail. Submucous infiltration of the sides of the septum, to which attention was first called by Cohen,^ is a not unusual complication in a large proportion of cases of chronic catarrhal inflammation of the nasal mucous memlirane, and, if excessive, produces in a marked degree the symptoms of nasal steno- sis. An examination with the rhinoscope shows that a tumid mass exists on either side of the septum and is confined to its posterior portion, of a whitish color, that is markedly distinct from the red color of the adjacent mucous membrane; it does not always, as asserted, occupy the lower portion of the septum, extending thence upwards, the reverse being, to say the least, very commonly seen. The affection is usually symmetrical; the masses are ovoid in outline, and much resemble nasal polypi. They appear to be oedematous jirojections of the mucous membrane from accumulation beneath it of serum, sero-mucus, or fibrin, and are best treated, according to Cohen, hy tearing away portions of the masses by forceps carried up behind the palate, or intro- duced through the nostril, as the case may best permit, the operation being performed under the guidance of the rhinoscopic mirror. Ilemorrhage is slight. The parts, after the operation, should be cauterized. Sometimes puncturing these masses with a curved lancet suffices. Finally, the galvano- cautery affords an appropriate means for their destruction. Deflection or deviation of the septum from the normal, median line, may be due to an abnormality, not uncommon in eitber its bony or cartila- ginous portions, or may occur as the result of a fracture or displacement of the septum, the effect of direct violence.^ In such cases, the cartilaginous septum is that which is most frequently displaced, and usually at tlie point of its articulation with the bony septum ; next in ]»oint of frequency, the perpen- dicular nasal ])late is broken, and especially where it approaches the vomer. The force of the concussion rarely reaches the latter, the perpendicular plate giving away first and easily. Proportionate to the amount of displacement will be the degree of obstruction to the nasal passages; a depression of the cartilage forming the ridge of the nose is necessarily accomjianied with a corresponding degree of lateral displacement, with or without fracture of its perpendicular portion, and produces therefore not only great deformity, but sometimes complete flattening of the end of the nose, aside from complete obstruction of the nostrils.^ The results of such fracture and displacement must not, however, be confoundeil with a deflected se})tum the result of con- genital or acquired abnormality. The clinical history will assist in making the differential diagnosis. As a matter of fact, the nasal septum is rarely found perfectly straight, but exhibits a slight inclination either to one side or the other, usually the left. Owing to its composite nature, its errors of posi- tion are furthermore not of one kind ; tlius, deviations occur in the perpendicu- lar plate of the ethmoid bone, at the ethmo-vomerine suture, and in the supe- rior maxilla; and in the living sul ject they are also seen, and very commonly, in the triangular cartilage. All of the above-mentioned forms may exist separately, or together. The frequency of these deviations from the normal standard is shown in a study by Alleu^ of 58 adult crania; of these, only 18 exhibited normal nasal cavities, while in the remaining 40, 19 were found in ' Diseases of the Tliroat, 2d edition. 2 See page 409, infra. * Hamilton, Fractures and Dislocations, 3d ed. 1866. ^ Am. Jour. Med. Sci., Jan. 1880.