798 INJURIES OF THE CHEST. I have seen an injury in which a state approaching fatal syncope followed on a fall from a car, the subject lighting directly on the precordial region, which revealed, on reaction being established, no physical sign, nor any symptom of pulmonary or cardiac lesion, either on the day of the injury or subsequently. Yet the collapse and failure of the circulation was, for a time, so profound and progressive, and of such duration, that it was feared that an intra-thoracic hemorrhage was taking place, and would necessarily prove fatal. Such cases may be regarded as examples of concussion, disturbing the functions of the cardiac ganglia and plexus of the sympathetic, and as such corresponding to the cases of fatal concussion of the semilunar ganglia and solar plexus of the abdomen. Admitting, then, the possibility of concussion of the thorax as a grave or even fatal injury, I desire to avoid the error of describing, as cases of concussion, injuries which either a more complete phy- sical examination during life, or post-mortem inspection, would prove to be contusions of the pleura, or lung, or heart, accompanied with lacerations of the structure of those organs. To return to the sul ject of contusion of the lungs and pleura without fracture of the ribs,' a contusion of the chest which has neither marked the skin nor liroken the bones, and which has failed to yield any sign of injury of the lung, may develop a rapid pleuritis, terminat- ing in etfusion. The following is a case in point:— A sailor, aged twenty-four, was admitted into Sir P. Dun’s Hospital on December 9, 1867 ; he was a young man of strong build, and his health had been uninterruptedly good until two days before his admission, when he sustained a severe fall on his back, on board ship, fie fell from some considerable height in the rigging on to the deck. Not many hours after the receipt of the injury, he experienced a severe pain and sore- ness of the right side; he had rigors, followed by some amount of pyrexia. On admission, the symptoms were by no means urgent; there was slight cough, with soreness and sense of general uneasiness, but no dyspnoea. The soreness and inability to move were such as to lead to the diagnosis of an ordinary contusion, without intra-thoracic lesion or fracture of the ribs. Presently the phenomena of a rapidly developing pleural effu- sion were observed, which increased, in spite of treatment, until, by tlie ninth day, it filled the entire left side. On this day the left side was dull over its entire extent, both anteriorly and posteriorly, but the dulness did not transgress the median line. The hollows of the intercostal spaces were obliterated, and the respiratory murmur was absent from base to apex. There was no vocal fremitus, and the side was perfectly motionless. The heart was displaced towards the right side, its impulse being perceptible, and its sounds audible, in tlie middle line. There was puerile respiration on the right side. Pulse, 104 ; temperature, 103.6° F. ; respiration only 24. 10th day. Pulse, 106 ; respi- ration, 28; temperature, 101.5° F. Complete dextro-cardia ; impulse of the heart, one inch to the right of the sternum. Eight side, circumference 17;^ inches; left, 18. On the 11th and 12th days all these symptoms were more advanced, while bronchial rales were audible over the right lung, with increasing dyspnoea. The left pleural cavity was punctured, and forty ounces of clear, straw-colored serum were withdrawn. The relief was immediate ; next day the pulse had fallen to 72, and the breathing to 24. An uninterrupted and rapid recovery followed. In this case there was no ascertainable lesion in either the chest-wall or Inng, and, as the character of the fluid drawn by the trocar would seem to prove, not even a trace of blood-eftusion in the pleural cavity. Yet some damage to the pleura must have existed, and a large area of the membrane have been in- volved, else the sudden and rapid effusion conld scarcely have arisen in a young and healthy man, whose good ph3^aical condition api)eared established by the extreme rapidity of his recovery on the abstraction of the effused fluid. 1 A long list of authorities may be quoted on this subject, dating back to Park’s case (1582) :— Morgagni, Rouppe, Portal, Boyer, Hewson, Laeimec, Hervez, Roques, Jobert, Dnpuytren, R. W. Smith, Saussier, Gosseliii, Otis, Coindet, Courtois, and others.