967 URACHAL ABSCESS AND FISTULA. birth is tubular for a short distance above the bladder,^ but in after life it becomes a mere libro-muscular cord. The urachus retains the tubular cha- racter of the allantois till about the thirtieth week of foetal life, but tbe exact time at which the metamor}>liosis of the allantois is complete, varies in different animals, and in different instances in the human subject. At birth, according to some observers, the urachus very frequently does not extend as far as the navel, but about five or six centimetres from the bladder passes into a number of tendinous threads, which unite with the right and left lateral ligaments of that organ. Luschka," who holds this view, says, however, that in very many cases a tubular elongation of the mucous mem- brane of the bladder may be found, the commencement of which is indicated by a minute opening passing from the cavity of the bladder; but that gene- rally, in place of this opening, a depression is to be seen, though even this is often absent, and all trace of tubular communication lost. Eokitansky^ “The urachus may remain jiatent to a certain distance from the bladder, or throughout its entire extent.” Cruveilhier,'* following Boyer, states that in urachal fistula the urethra is ahvays obliterated; and Boyer goes on to remark that the fistula ceases to exist as soon as the obstruction at the neck of the bladder is removed, so that the urine can flow by the urethra.® Tliat these distinguished anatomists w^ere wrong in this opinion, there can be no doubt, if the case of Mr. Thomas Paget, of Leicester (which will be again referred to), and one reported in the Medicinische Zeitung,® of Berlin, as well as a few others on record, are admitted to be urachal fistula?. Bo3’er^ is further of opinion that in the great number of cases in which there is a dis- charge of urine from the umbilicus of young persons and adults, the fis- tube have not been caused by the dilatation of an unobliterated urachus ; but that the real cause lias been,yfrsf, an obstruction to the jiassage of urine by the urethra, and, secondly^ to a herniary protrusion of the mucous memhrane of the bladder through the rest of its coats, near the point of connection of the urachal ligament; and that this herniary protrusion has extended as far as the umbilicus, and has subsequently ruptured. lie, however, records no case in support of his hypothesis, but the perusal of Mr. Paget’s case makes me incline to think that there may be instances of the kind Avhich Boyer supposes. In jM r. Paget’s® patient, the umbilical orifice of the fistula measured three inches liy two inches; through it a hernial protrusion, tlie size of a goose’s egg, had occurred, and along this the surgeon’s lingers could be passed right into the bladder. Though tbe man had no difficulty in voiding uilne, and though a catheter could easily be passed when he was under Mr. Paget’s care, it is quite possible that some obstruction had existed in early life before the fistula had formed. I have made a dissection in one case, and reported another,® in which saccular dilatation of the kidneys, ureters, and bladder occurred in a foetus, and in wdiich the only cause of oljstruction found on examination was a thin membranous septum, easily broken down with a small catheter, in ' See a thesis 1>y .Johannes Noreen, entitled “De mntatione Inininuni in v.asis hominis nas- centis in specie de uracho,” in the fifth volume of Haller’s Disjnitationes Anatomic® Seleetae, pp. 713 et sc.q. 2 Luschka, Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Review, 18(12. * Manual of Pathological Anatomy, Syd. Soc. Transh, vol. ii. p. 219. ^ Lihrary of Medicine, ed. by Tweedie, vol. vii. p. 592. 5 I’raite d’anatomie. Splanchnologie, p. 477. Med. Zeitung, No. 19. 1837. ^ Op. cit., p. 479. ® Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiii. p. 293. Mr. Paget’s case is entitled “ A case in which the ura- chus remained open, and a ring-shaped calculus, formed upon a hair in the bladder, was extracted through the umhilicus.” ® Congenital Hydronephrosis, witli remarks on the Secretion and Excretion of Urine in the F’cetus. Proceedings of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society of Londox, 1876; and Lancet and Brit. Med. .lourual. May 13, 1876.