1143 IXGUINAL HERNIA. finger and thumb, also in the same way, at about two inches distance, both assistant and operator recognizing the situation of the spermatic duct. The needle is then passed at one corner of the scrotal }iuncture (Fig. 1137) across the sac, in front of the duet, and out at the other end of the scrotal puncture. The skin here is so elastic that the pumdure stretches sufficiently to allow this to be easih* done. The inner end of the wire—viz., tliat which traverses the conjoined tendon—is next hooked on to the eye of the needle and drawn across behind the sac. Care must here be taken, by dealing ivith the wire roundly, not to make an acnte bend or kink, which would j)ut a needless difficulty in the way of its subsequent witlidrawal. Tlie wire should lie drawn down so as to get straight parts in tlie tissues, and to liring the loop an inch or so from the skin-surface. The two sci’otal ends are then twisted twice or three times around each other, the operator observing the direction of the twist, so as to be able readily to untwist the wire when it is to be withdrawn. The loop of wire above is now seized and drawn tii’inly ujiwards, so as to invagi- nate the scrotal fascia into the hernial canal as higli up as the deep hei-nial opening, and it is then twisted firmly down, in the same Avay and with the saiJie precautions as the lower ends. The ends and loop are then bent over towards one another (Fig. 1138), the former cut ott‘ to a convenient length, passed thi’ough, and bent on to the latter. In very large cases, where the snperticial ring is very patulous, the wires may be crossed in the canal, and the needle passed through the pillars near the puliis, after the sac is invagi- nated. Thus the lower opening of the hernial canal may be more etfectively closed. (Fig. 1130.) In these eases a cylindrical pad of glass or boxwood may be used with advantage to secure the loop, and for the ends of the wire to be twisted over, as seen on the other side f>f the figure. A pad of lint, large enough to exercise compression, is fixed under the bight oi' tlie double wire loop wbicli has been formed (Fig. 1140), a little carbolized tow is put over the scrotal puncture to catch any discharge, and a flannel spica bandage is applied, the ends of which, on being tied, should be made into a. sling or susyiender to support the. whole of the scrotum and penis. The ]iatient should be placed in bed, with the shoulders well raised and the knees tied