402 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. Stenosis of the Xasal Passages.* Aside from the causes which have thus far been mentioned, that may lead to the temporary or permanent occlusion of one or both nasal passages, nar- rowing or closure of these cavities is dependent upon a variety of abnormal conditions, some of which, chiefly those affecting the nasal septum, are now to be considered. Their general symptoms, aside from those which are due to the catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane, probably coexisting, and which have elsewhere been considered, are mainly, if not wholly, depen- dent upon the obstruction to free nasal respiration, which may exist or occur at any portion of the nasal tract, and they will consequently A’ary in their gravity and persistency, with the grade and nature of the occluding cause. They may best, perhaps, be studied collectively at this point. The stenosis may vary from a slight impediment only to the free passage of air through the nasal canals, producing in the patient a sensation of uneasiness and dis- comfort, to complete closure, Avith its attendant train of evils. Much Avill likewise depend upon the fact, of whether one or both nasal passages are involved, both as regards the intensity of the symptoms and the seriousness of the results. The latter have been carefully studied by FraenkeP and others. When occlusion is complete, and in certain instances even when it is only partial, oral breathing becomes a confirmed habit, and the conditions of respiration are thereby materially altered for the worse. The evil effects are soon apparent, not only in disturbances in the respiratory organs and air-passages generally, but likewise in circulatory derangements, impaired cpiality of the blood, and interference with general nutrition and develop- ment, the diminution of the air supply to the lungs being, as BerkarF has shown, readily demonstrated by listening alternately to the chest of one who breathes through the mouth and to that of one who breathes through the nose. The true function of the nose, aside from the sense of smell, being to warm, purify, and moisten the inspiratory current in its course over the turbinated bones, and befoi-e it I’eaches the deeper respiratoiy passages, the abolition of this function must necessarily charge the lungs with air which is not only raw and uuAvarmed,^ but which likewise holds in suspension more or less dust, and is perhaps loaded with irritating particles. The dryness of the mouth and throat, the constant hypera?mia, and the predisposition to catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane, bear witness to the material disadvan- tages and results following upon nasal occlusion and enforced oral respiration. Its effect upon the character of the voice is Avell known, and the peculiar, dis- agreeable, nasal intonation, will be recognized as a prominent symptom and diagnostic sign of the condition. Meyer® has pointed out that when obstruc- tion is complete, the letters “ m” and “ n” become perverted into “b” and “ d” ; and Lbwenberg® dw’ells at some length upon the causes of this substitution. The character of the voice is thus altered for the ivorse : its quality is notably changed, its head-notes are abolished, and it becomes flat and nasal. Toynbee ' Consult also Lennox Browne, On Obstructions in the Nasal Fossfe (British Medical Journal, August 24, 1878) ; Ziein, On partial or total Occlusion of the Nose (Monatssch. fiir Ohrenheilk , No. 2, 1879) ; Ganghofner, Tlie Anomalies and Narrowings of the Upper Air-Passages (Viertel- jahrsschrift fiir pract. Heilk., Bd. cxli. 1879) ; Roser, On Deviation of the Nasal Septum (Monatssch. fiir Ohrenheilk., No. 4, 1881) ; Pean, idem (Centralblatt fiir Chir., No. 46, 1880). “ Op. cit. (Ziemssen), vol. iv. p. i03. 3 Asthma, its Pathology and Treatment. Loudon, 1878. Milne Edwards has shown, by experiment, that it is raised 20 in temperature when respired through the nose. ^ Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. liii. p. 191. London, 1870. 6 Les Tumeurs adenoides du Pharynx nasal. Paris, 1879.