621 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PAROTID GLAND. 111 excisins^ simple growths, the overlying parts should be freely divided down to the" tumor itself. If it is eiicapsuled, the growth should then be enucleated with as little dissection as possible—the linger and handle of the knife being chiefly employed. An incision passing down the posterior sur- face of the tumor, and another leaving the first at either its centre or lower end, and running forwards, generally best meet the requirements of these cases. If deep dissection be required, tbe parts to be divided should be scraped through only after careful inspection, and the securing of each doulit- ful portion by two ligatures before division. Drainage must be very care- fully provided for, and no skin should be removed unless it be diseased. If important bloodvessels running through the tumor are divided, they can be secured without much difticulty, and it is well to dissect from below upwards (as all operators have stated), and from behind forwards, so as to tie at once the main bloodvessels which are necessarily cut, and not have to ligature them again and again in the course of the operation. It has been shown that if the main trunk of the facial nerve be divided, and its cut ends placed together, the function of the nerve will be restored. It would be well in such a case to unite the extremities of the nerve by suture. The common carotid is not now tied as formerly, preparatory to tlie excision of tumors of the parotid, and the use of the ecraseur and galvano-cautery is seldom thought of, though the latter instrument might, in complicated cases, be found of mucli use. It is right to add that the possibility of excising the jiarotid has been the subject of much controversy. That in its unchanged condition it is impos- sible to define accurately its limits so as to take it all away without injury to surrounding structures, has been asserted since Allan Burns and others studied the question ; Imt that it can be removed when so altered by disease as to Ijecome more defined, prominent, and prehensible, must be admitted.^ Xelaton, Malgaigne, and many others have taken a prominent part in this discussion, but the terms of the question deliated have not always lieen iden- tical. To excise a sound, unchanged parotid, and one affected with caucer, are very different things; and these again differ widely from dealing with a parotid, the seat of affections which have not the tendency to burst the cap- sule of the gland, and s])read far and wide, working themselves into the sur- rounding parts as malignant tumors do. It is from not observing this difference in the proljlem, that much of the diversity of opinion which is so copiously expressed in the writings of several authors has arisen.^ It is not necessary here to enter on this question. In America, excision of the diseased parotid has been, perhaps, moi'e frequently I’eported than elsewhere. Warren of Boston, in 1798, led the way, and McClellan, of Philadelphia, several times repeated the operation. Many cases (over one hundred) are on record in which it is said to have been performed, Init there is strong reason to sup- pose that in a certain proportion of these it was not the gland itself, but a tumor deeply imbedded in it, which was removed. Malgaigne, in his report to the Academy, even went the length of asserting that the diseased pai'otid could lie excised without injuring either the external caroti<l or the facial nerve. Paralysis of the portio dura may, however, be always looked for when the parotid is seriously dealt with, and the bleeding cannot fail to be very severe, so that it is in any case an operation which demands exiierience and mature knowledge in the surgeon who undertakes it. The incision em- ployed is usually a straiglit one, but it may assume other directions to suit the ' See Berard, lies operations que reclament les tumeurs develoj^pees dans la rtgion parotidienne. 1841. ^ Bulletin de I’Academie do Mtdecine, dctoLre, 1858.