502 INJUKIES AND DISEASES OF THE MODTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. not cut its way out, and will require removal when the cyst has become obliterated. A rarer form of cyst is the congenital cyst of the floor of the mouth, which contains inspissated, sebaceous material, closely resembling putty in appearance, £ind having an offensive, cheesy odor. Being of slow’ grow’th, it seldom gives trouble until early adult life, when an unsightly sw’elling below the chin is noticed externally, and the tongue is pushed up so as, in extreme cases, to interfere with speech. This form of cyst is confined to the floor of the mouth, but often has a portion reflected around the posterior edge of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and presenting in the digastric triangle. This fact makes the treatment very difiicult, as graphically described by Sir Wm. Fergusson,^ who met with two cases of the kind, one of wdiich he treated by excision, and the other by inducing suppuration in the cyst. In one case I succeeded in removing the cyst through the moutli, after dividing the mylo-hyoid so as to allow’ of the withdrawal of the portion superficial to the muscles. Should removal not be feasible, the use of a seton, passed from below’ the jaw’ through the mouth, after evacuation of the contents, w’ould probably set up sufficient action to produce a cure. The diagnosis of these cases is ahvays obscure, and they are usually mistaken, until opened, for examples of ordinary ranula. Inflammatory sw’elling beneath the tongue, leading to the formation of pus which is apt to And its Avay betw'een flie muscles of the throat, may arise from abscess connected with a tooth, and should be opened early Hypertrophy wmth prolapse of the tongue, or macroglossia, though usually a congenital affection, is not invariably so. In some of the recorded cases it appears to have been the result of inflammation occurring in early life, and in one case to have followed the application of a leech. It has been regarded by some surgeons as primarily a prolapse due to deficiency of mus- cular power, and by others as an hypertrophy leading to prolapse by the weight of the organ ; and undoubtedl}^ in the later stages, the wdiole organ is enormously enlarged and hangs out of the mouth. In Dr. Humphry’s^ case, in a girl aged eleven, the prolapsed portion of the tongue measured from the upper lip to the tip three and one-half inches, and the circumference of the Avidest part of the organ Avas six and one-half inches. The papillae w’ere greatly enlarged and separated by deep clefts, but no record is given of the condition of the portion removed. Air. II. ArnotF has, however, recorded a case in AA’hich there was actual hypertrophy of the muscular substance, as Avell as enlargement of the bloodvessels and lymphatics, and thickening and induration due to inflammation. In addition to the discomfort caused by the prolapse, in all the recorded cases an alteration in the position of the teeth and alveolus of the loAver jaAv, due to the constant pressure of the tongue, has been observed. In the treatment of this affection, pressure by bandaging and the use of styptics seem to have given good results in some cases, and Syme^ speaks highly of the use of a solution of sulphate of cop- per Oj to ffij). Failing to get relief in this Avay, remoAml of the protruding portion with the knife, as in Syme’s and Humphry’s cases, or Avith the ecrasem\ as in Erichsen’s, offers the only metliod of treatment aA’ailable.® In the case of an idiot boy, aged ten, recently under my care, Avith macroglossia of congenital origin, I remoA^ed the anterior portion of the tongue by a 1 System of Practiccal Surgery, p. 514. ^ Medico-Chirurgical Trans., vol. xxxvi. s Path. Soc. Trans., vol. xxiii. * Observations in Clinical Surgery. 1861. 6 List of cases in F. Clarke’s Diseases of the Tongue, p. 72.