914 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. case is less favorable than those in ■which there is no etfusion at all, hut very much more favorable than those in which the escape is into the abdominal cavity. Whatever is taken by the mouth may he discharged almost at once, and almost unaltered, through the Avound. Peritonitis, more or less severe and moi’e or less general, may arise, and a tistnla,for a time at least, is pretty certain to folloAV. When the contents of the stomach escape into the abdominal cavity, there will he the same urgent symptoms as attend extraA'asation of feces, bile, or urine. The chief diagnostic symptoms of these hoi)eless cases, according to Travers, appear to he;— (1) Sudden, most acute, and unremitting pain, radiating from the scrobiculus cordis, or tlie navel, to tlie circumference of the trunk, and even to the limbs. A peculiar pain, the intensity of Avhich, like that of jiarturition, absorbs the whole mind of the patient, who, within an hour from the enjoyment of perfect health, expresses his serious and decided conviction, that if the pain be not speedily alleviated he must die. (2) Coeval Avith the attack of pain, remarkable rigidity and hardness of the belly, from a lixed and spastic contraction of the abdominal muscles. (3) A natural pulse for some hours, until the symptoms are merged in those of acute peritonitis, and its fatal termination in the adhesive stage.* There are, besides, extreme anxiety, collapse, cold SAveats, and Avhat John llnnter has described as a “sleepy Ituiguidness in the eye, Avhicli makes one suspect something more than a common Avound.” In every form of stomacli-Avound there maj’ he A^omiting of blood, and blood may also escape through the external Avound. JJiaf/riosis.—The situation of the Avound, the Ammiting of blood, and especiallj' the escape of chyme, or fluids, or particles of foot! recently taken, are the indications of Avound of the stomach. When Ave have oidy the flrst of these tliree means of judging, the diagnosis must he uncertain. J^rofjnosis.—As Ilennen has observed, these cases are extremely dangerous, though not ahvays mortal. Punctured and small incised avotukIs are ccctcris paribus^ the most hopeful; lacerated and gunshot wounds the most fatal. Alcock gives only one case of recovery froii] Avound of the stomach out of 3000 cases of gunshot Avound. Wounds near or at the curvatures are attended by more danger from hemorrhage than Avounds on the surtaces ; and hemor- rhage is liere very ditflcnlt to stop. Recoveries after Avounds of the stomach are recorded by Thomson, Guthrie, Ilevin,^ William IScotP, Archer, and McCarterat; and Al)ernethy relates a case iuAvhich, after a gunshot Avoiind of the stomach, adhesions Avere formed, the stomach sloughed, and its contents Avere received into a pouch Avhich gradually extended till it broke at the groin. The fluids Avhich Avere taken by the mouth could lie draAvn off through the resulting flstula, by sinpdy removing a little cork, Avhich the patient, a Frenchman, Avas in the habit of Avearing in the ojiening, and removing for the purposes of public exhibition. The results of Avounds of the stomach Avhich are not fatal, are (1) adhesion of the Avound in the stomach to the peritoneum of the jiarietes, or of some other organ, and the closure of the Avound in the abdominal Avails; (2) forma- tion of a flstulous opening, Avhich may remain permanent for the rest of life, or may close after an interval varying from a feAV days to 27 years (Wencker’s case). Treatment.—Total abstinence from all food and drink, for a time ; enemata of heef-tea and egg, Avith or Avithout opium, as required ; the utmost quietude; and the relaxation of the abdominal muscles by position, are the best means 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. viii. pp. 231 et seq. * Mem. de I’Academie de Cliirurgie. * Med. Communic.ations, vol. ii. p. 78.