INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. 833 superficial surface. It is so essential that these deep abscesses should be eailj reco2;uized and relieved, that in any case of doubt the aspirator-needle or exploring trocar should be freely used, and, if pus be found, an incision should be made without delay. It is oidy by early incision, in many cases, that destruction of the breast and surrounding structures, and the forma- tion of sinuses and abscess-cavities, can be prevented. When treating a suppurating breast in which there are several such cavities or sinuses, it is important not only to make a free incision at the most convenient, depend- ent point, but also to introduce the finger and with it lireak down any thin walls of partition or any adhesions, so as to convert the whole, if possible, into one cavity. More than one incision may be recpiired in these cases, and the introduction of drainage-tubes will often aid in allowing the pus to escape more freely, and will be useful as a means of injecting the sinuses or cavi- ties with antiseptic or other lotions, so as to promote their healthy condition and healing. Incisions made into the breast for tlie relief of abscesses or other conditions, should run as much as possible parallel to the duct, that is, from the nipple as a centre, especially Avhen made near this process. Should the abscess not have already hurst externally, I would strongly urge, from considerable experience, the importance of eni})loying careful antiseptic measures in its treatment. In cases which are not aseptic, the thorough cleansing and scraping of the walls of the abscess-cavities and sinuses, and tlie application to them of I)e Morgan’s solution of chloride of zinc (forty grains to the ounce), or of tincture of iodine, will usually promote a healthy action and (piicken their contraction and healing. In aggravated cases in which the glandular substance is in great part destroj'ed, it will some- times be useful to remove the whole suppurating mass, saving as much of the skin as possible. Patients suffering from mammary abscess who are feeble in health, or who have become weakened and exhausted by irritation and continued suppuration, must he supported by good, nourishing diet, suit- able to their condition and })OAvers of digestion. Stimulants are not as a rule required if the food is digested, hut they should he given wdien there is great weakness or ditficulty in assimilating ordinary nourishment. Quinine, iron, cod-liver oil, or other tonics, must he prescribed, if the case seems suit- able for them, and carriage-exercise in the open air will often aid in improv- ing the health, provided that proper means he taken to prevent any umlue exposure to cold. Milk Fistul/E.—As a result of abscesses involving the breast, one or more sinuses communicating with the gland-duets may remain open and allow the milk to escape through them ; if such sinuses do not contract and heal, they should be treated by injections of chloride of zinc or iodine; and if this fails to cure them, they should be opened up and drainage-tubes inserted along their whole extent, while at the same time the affected Ijreast must be sup- ported, and, if pressure can be borne, this should he ap}*lied over the track of the sinuses; as these contract, the drainage-tubes must be correspondingly shortened from time to time. Chronic Inflammation and Abscess.—As a conse(piencc of acute intlam- mation—or from some irritation, local, functional, or sjunpathetic^—one or more ])ortions of the breast may become chronically intlamed. In sucli cases the atiected portion is thickened, hard, and sometimes tender to the touch ; this condition may remain wdthout much change, it may slowdy disappear and the infiammatory products be absorbed, or it may end in the formation of a chronic abscess wdiich may be very slow in its progress, and, if situated in the breast-structure, may be long before it points towards the surface. VOL. V.—.^)3