299 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE AURICLE. common occurrence. The treatment consists in cutting away the opposite, cicatrized skin-surfaces, and then stitching the parts together as accurately as possible. Deformities of the Auricle.—Autoplastic operations have been per- formed for the relief of various defects and deformities of the auricle. The excision of a V-sliaped piece will sometimes prove successful in diminishing the prominence of an abnormally large auricle, but I know of no means of giving firmness to a drooping auricle—one which lacks a properly developed cartilaginous framework—unless it be by causing its posterior surface to unite with the adjacent outer surface of the head. Frost-bite.—The auricle, by reason of its exposed position, is very apt to sutler from the efiects of extreme cold. At first the cold produces contrac- tion of the bloodvessels of the skin, but paralysis of their muscular elements soon follows, and the ear tlien presents a red or even purplish appearance, and is likely to be somewhat swollen. If actual freezing takes place, the ear assumes a whitish appearance, and may even, under the influence of pro- longed cold, become brittle. Under favoralde circumstances the frozen auricle (usually only its upper portion) may gradually resume its natural con- dition, though very commonly a certain degree of paresis of the bloodvessels remains, causing permanent redness of the affected part. The best method of tliawing out a frozen ear is to rub it with snow at first, and then afterward with cold water. This must be done gently, as there is danger of breaking the frozen organ. When the circulation seems to have been re-established, tepid water may be used instead of cold. These procedures must be carried on either out-of-doors or in a cold I’oom, the aim being to restore the frozen part very gradually to its proper temperature. In unfavorable cases—those, for example, in wliich the ear has been allowed to remain for too long a time in a frozen condition, or in which no precautions have been taken to secure its gradual restoration to a normal temperatui-e—inflammation sets in, and, according to its severity, we may have as a final result either gangrene and sloughing away of the part affected, or a perichondritis, presenting the picture of a well-marked otlnematorna. The treatment required for the first of these conditions is amputation of the gangrenous portion; that required for the perichondritis has been already set forth on a preceding page. As one of the sequehe requiring surgical interference, I may mention the persistence of small, deeply excavated, sluggish ulcers, covered with hai’d, dry crusts. The favorite seat of these ulcers is on tlie upper part of the helix, or occasionally on the antihelix (see Fig. 889). It is not an easy matter to effect a genuine healing of these sores. The plan which I liave found the most successful is this. After removing the crust, pare away with small, curved scissors, the bluish, undermined skin which surrounds the ulcer. Then either scrape the fibrous or cartilaginous floor of the ulcer with the point of the knife, or touch it lightly Avith nitric acid. Uext fill the excavation Avith a pledget of cotton saturated with the compound tincture of iodine. Finally, as a means of holding tlie pledget in place, and of excluding the air, spread a feAV fibres of cotton like a netAvork over the ulcerated area, and saturate the Avhole Avith collodion. Three or four days aftenvard, Avlieii the dressings are found to be loose, remove them, and re-apply cotton saturated Avith the compound tincture of iodine. By this mode of procedure, I have in several cases succeeded in permanently healing the chronic ulcers resulting from frost-bite. Burns.—Severe burns of the auricle present either the picture of a decided perichondritis, or that of a localized death or gangrene, and nothing further