( 853 ) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. BY HENRY MORRIS, M.A. and M.B. Lond., F.R.C.S. Eng., SURGEON TO, AND LECTURER ON SURGERY AT, THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL, LONDON. Contusions of the Abdominal Parietes. Contusions of the abdominal parietes may or may not be associated Avith injury* to some of the abdominal contents. If the viscera be involved, the seriousness of the injury depends upon the damage within the abdomen ; if not involved, the severity of the case varies with the area and depth to which tlie parietes are contused, and more especially with the depth. Thus, con- tusion of the skin and muscles is moi’e serious than contusion of the skin alone, and if the peritoneum partakes in the injury, the gravity is greatly increased. Where a severe abrasion or an actual wound exists, or a large bloodvessel or muscle has been subcutaneously ruptured, or the tissues dis- organized by pulping, the risks of the contusion are increased by the compli- cation. Contusions of the parietes may be grouped into (1) Simple contusion or bruise; (2) Contusion witli exti-avasation of blood; (3) Contusion with ruptured muscle; (4) Contusion ivitli pulj)ing or actual disorganization of tissue; and (5) Contusion followed by inhammation and suppuration. Simple Contusion or Pruise.—The symptoms are ecchymosis, tenderness, pain, swelling, and shock. Ecchymosis does not invariably follow a severe blow, and, on the other hand, a slight blow may give rise to wide-spread and extensive discoloration of the skin. Ecchymosis, by which is meant rupture of the capillary vessels of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and the external discoloration which results therefrom, must not be mistaken for extravasation of blood amongst the deeper structures. Thus, there may be considerable hemorrhage amongst the muscles, or in the subperitoneal tissue, and yet no ecchymosis. AYhen the extravasation occurs from the capillaries of the sub- cutaneous tissue rather than of the skin, ecchymosis may be delayed until after an interval of three or four days. The ecchymosis may extend uni- formly over a considerable surface, or may occur as a number of petechiie thickly placed, as was well seen in a boy under my care, Avhose chest and abdomen had been scpieezed against a wall by the backing of a Avagon ; his face, in the course ot tAventy-lour hours, became thickly covered Avitli minute ecchymoses, until it presented a dusky-red color throughout; his abdomen, chest, and other parts were similarly but to a less degree atfected. In the course of several days he regained his proper appearance and recovered. Persons with much sulicutaneous fat, or Avith a purpuric state of blood, and those Avith a strong tendency to hemorrliage trom trivial causes, and charac- teristically styled “ bleeders,” shoAv most discoloration after simple contusion. The degree of eccliymosis de}>ends, too, upon the region of the abdomen con- tused ; thus, in the umbilical and epigastric regions it occurs more readily than in the lumbar.