STRABISMUS, 263 great prudence, preferring too little immediate effect to excessive remote results. A slight remaining convergence attracts little notice, and may disappear with age, as presbyopia develops. The aim should be to attain the best possible correction, with the least insufficiency and disturliance in the binocular move- ments, Then again, a desire to correct an extreme degree of convergence by operating only on the crooked eye, making the dissection very extensive, or repeating the operation on the same ejm, is often disastrous. Marked insuffi- ciency of the weakened muscle, undue prominence of the eye, sinking in of the > caruncle, and great disparity between the eyes, will result. Besides, if the operator has not taken the precaution to detect and demonstrate to the parents the already defective sight in the faulty eye, he will get the additional credit of having destroyed the sight by his operations! Slight degrees of squint may indeed be relieved by one judicious operation. But in the great majority of cases of higher degrees, it is far better to operate on both eyes, at intervals. In very extreme cases, however, a simultaneous, double tenotomy maybe safely done, and it is sometimes the only Avay to get sufficient correction. As a rule, it is wiser to operate first on the worse eye, and then wait a few days or weeks for the definitive result, hefore attacking the other. In all serious undertakings, “ make haste slowly” is a safe injunction. Of course this does not suit the itinerant operator^ but I am speaking of honest and con- scientious men. The object to be secured is the detachment of the tendon from its scleral insertion, so that it may retract and readhere farther back. We want to weaken, but not to destroy its rotating influence. The second insertion must be within the capsule of Tenon, else the result will be excessive. But the immediate effect of a skilful tenotomy will vary in different cases. When the eyes are deep-seated and small, a much bolder operation may be risked than where the contrary obtains. In the former case, some degree of exophthalrnus, especially if ecpially divided between the two eyes, is desirable. Then again, the blendings of the tendon with the capsule of Tenon, as it passes through, vary in extent and rigidity. The same is true of the temlinous attacbment to the sclera. Moreover, the amount of correction depends more on the active energy of the antagonist than upon the retraction of the severed muscle. A greatly stretched and weakened antagonist is not likely to assert itself and produce a marked immediate effect. We must not only measure, as exactly as may be, the linear deviation, but the extent of pos- sible movement inwards and outwards. In convergence, the possible rotations inwards are excessive, and the outward rotations somewhat limited. In diverg- ence the contrary obtains. By requesting the patient to fix your finger ivith both eyes open, and moving it tar to one side and then to the other, you test the extent of rotation in these opposite directions. The margin of the cornea and the outer commissure of the lids are the external land-marks. The inner margin of the cornea, as compared with the lower punctum, ivill be the guide for inward movements. Sometimes tlie centre of the cornea can be drawn so far beyond the punctum, that it is nearly buried out of sight. In such a case, Avith a Aveak external rectus and marked limitation in the outAvard rota- tions, one can scarcely get too much effect from the tenotomy. Indeed, it may be necessary to combine Avith it, advancement of the externus. We Avant to diminish the excessive motion in one direction, and increase it in the other, so as to restore a natural equilibrium. The nice point is to insure the needed correction Avith the least muscular insufliciency. If you correct the position completely, Avith marked muscular insufficiency, an opposite deformity in after years is almost certain. The limitations of the Aveakened muscle must be tested as soon as possible after the tenotomy. If the patient has liecn put under the effect of ether, time must be given for this to pass off. This sometimes causes embarrassing delay. If the extreme