55 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. cells.” This view is the outcome of the histories of several imperfectly recorded cases, where there was no proof tliat the cause of death was not situated far distant from the head. These were cases of instantaneous death without per- ceptible lesion of tlie brain or its memliranes; wherefore, argue the vibratory theorists, this absence of all lesion must be still more true for the cases where recovery ensues. Unfortunately for the theorists, neither the spine nor the heart was examined in the cases referred to. Littre’s case is eminently sug- gestive of death from a broken or dislocated spine.* Ilewett gives two illus- trative cases, showing how careless post-mortem examinations tend to perpet- uate false theories of disease. One or more of the conditions found in these cases probably existed in those in which instantaneous death was supposed to have resulted from pure cerebral concussion, without any post-mortem evidence of injury to the brain or its envelopes. A man was admitted into the ITopital St. Antoine, having fallen from a great height upon the pavement. He was collapsed and insensible, but presented neither paralysis nor muscular spasm. After some hours he died. Upon post-mortem examination of the head alone, not a trace of injury was detected in any of the cranial contents, and the case was considered one of deatli from cerebral concussion. Fortunately, Dr. Deville, hearing of the absence of all lesions, proceeded to lay open the spinal canal, which he found filled by an extensive exti-avasation of blood, extending even beyond the point where the spinal cord liad been divided when removing the brain.^ Hewett also relates the case of a boy suffering from concussion of the brain, whose intracranial contents showed comparatively trivial lesions, while an examination of his chest, which outwardly bore no evidence of traumatism, showed a rupture of the muscular tissue of the septum of the cardiac ventricles, extending up to but not through the serous covering. But what does actual post-mortem examination show to be the condition in slight eases of concussion, where death has ensued Avitliiii a short time from other injuries? In two cases re[)orted by Ilewett, Avhere “symptoms of concussion of the slightest nature had altogether passed off within a very short time,” the brain-substance itself was actually injured. In the first, where there had been mere “giddiness” from a blow upon the head, followed by complete recovery, patches of contusion were found at the liase of the brain, in two or three }»laces, of the size of a shilling; these patches consisted of minute specks of blood closely grouped together, extending about a line in deptli into the brain-substance. The second case Avas one Avliere, after a fall upon the back of the head, the concussion-symptoms soon disappeared, and death resulted from another disease eight days subsecpiently. Thin layers of coagulated blood Avere found firmly adlierent to the parietal layer of the arachnoid, Avhile the larger veins ujion the cerebral surface Avere congested, as Avell as the brain-substance itself, Avhicli Avas rendered much darker from this cause. In the “centrum ovale, close to the riglit side of the corpuis callosum, and extending ]»artly into it, Avas an extravasation of Mood of the size of a nut.”^ The experiments of Uano upon dogs killed Avithiii a feAV minutes of their recovering consciousness after a stuimiug bloAV, shoAv that in the absence of any other lesions most extensive congestion results. Duret’s experiments, already cpiotal, are still more conclusive. Finally, in a case closely resem- bling that of Littre, already quoted, Avidespread congestion Avas discovered. Arrested, and failing in bis efforts to get away, the man dasbed bimselt liead-fbremost against a wall, bis bands being tied bebind bis back. He was picked u[) immediately afterwards, perfectly insensible, and died tbree-qiiarters of an bour after tbe injury. ' Giluvres de Sabatier, tome ii. p. 400. 2 Mem. de la Soc. de Chirurg. ile Paris, t. iii. p. ISO. (Hewett.) 3 Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. GOI.