714 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE AIR-PASSAGES. portaiit to have consciotisness retained, so that the patient can cough and expectorate voluntarily, or take a deep inspiration when so commanded. This advantage, which may avert death by suffocation, is lost when an anaes- thetic is given. Chloroform is preferable to ether, even in the adult, because it is less likely to induce vomiting, and thus possibly lead to inundation of the air-passages, and because it is less irritating to the mucous membrane. Ether, being inflammable, must not be used in operations by ordinary artiflcial light close at hand, nor in operations performed with the incandescent cautery. In children poisoned by carbonic acid from insufficient aeration of the l)lood, in croup and diph- theria, anaesthesia often exists to such an extent that the knife is not felt. In some instances, though the cut be felt, the infant budges hut little; as if it Hppreeiated the nature of the steps being taken for its relief. Should an anaesthetic he administered, it need he pushed no farther than the induction of unconsciousness, or the abolition of cutaneous sensibility. When an anaesthetic is withheld from children, the limbs and trunk should he carefully secured in a large towel or a sheet, to control struggles which Avould embai’rass the operator. Adults can usually he coaxed to go without an anaesthetic, especially when they are told that hut little pain ensues after the skin has been cut, and that this part of the operation can be done in a second. The pain will be still less if the parts be frozen with ice and salt, or with spray of ether or of rhigolene; and this may he done sometimes, as a compromise. Union, however, is much more tardy when the tissues have been frozen. The occasion is sometimes presented for immediate tracheotomy, though neither surgical instruments, nor appliances for keeping the wound patulous, he at hand. The trachea or the crico-thyroid membrane may then justifi- al)ly he penetrated by one thrust of pocket-knife or scissors, and the instru- ment may he turned around in the Avound,so as to keep the edges apart until assistance can l)e had to complete arrangements for the patient’s safety. In performing these operations, the patient may he recumbent or semi- recumbent. Tlie latter position is often preferable in the adult, especially when the dj^spncea is intense. Should tlie recumbent position be selected, the shoulders are to be elevated, and the head is to be alloAved to hang back a little, supported by a firm, cylindrical compress, or cushion, under the neck, such as can be improAUsed b^m’olling a toAvel ai’ound a Avine-hottle or rolling- pin. The object is to render the larynx and trachea sufficiently prominent to facilitate the steps of the operation, Avithout forcing the head hack so far as to embarrass respiration by compressing the trachea uiion the A^ertebrae. Some operators stand at the head of the patient, and cut tOAvards themseUes; the advantages being a better vieAV of the inferior portions of the Avound, and less liability to haA^e the blood and mucus spattered in the face. Others stand at the side of the patient, and cut from above doAvuAvard. The advantage here is that the normal relations of parts are more easily kept in mind. In operat- ing in the semi-recumbent position, Avhich I prefer, because it approximates the position of the parts maintained by the im^alid during the greater portion of his time, the head is bent gently backAvard ovei’ the top of the chair, and the chair is then tilted back a little and maintained in position by supports. The operator may stand at the head of the patient, but Avhen the operation is likely to be a prolonged one, as in the extirpation of morbid groAvths, it Avill be better for him to kneel upon a cushion at the patient’s side. A reflector is useful at times to facilitate illumination of obscure portions of the field of operation. Operations Avith the head throAvn entirel}" l)ack beyond the operating bed or table (Rose’s method),' are sometimes performed to prevent • Arch. f. kiln. Cliir., Rd. xvii. S. 454. 1874.