OBTURATOR OR THYROID HERNIA. 1171 In two cases, in which the sac of an umbilical hernia of considerable size was removed during the operation of ovarian laparotomy, tlie sides of the hernial opening were united by wires and leaden buttons in sewing up the abdominal wound, and the cases did very well, the removal of the sac not having had the smallest apparent influence upon the progress of the case. In one, however, apparently from the general lax and stretched condition of the abdominal walls about the linea alba, the resulting cicatrix, both at the site of the umbilical hernia and below it, where no hernial sac had existed, remained in a weak condition, necessitating the wearing of a belt. la the most common cases of umbilical hernia, attended with corpulence, a fatty condition of the omentum, and general constitutional debility, these circumstances, as well as the age and habits of the patient, preclude any attempt at a radical cure of the rupture by operation, and the best thing tliat the surgeon can do is to tit on a hollow truss-pad and abdominal belt. The pad should have a large, hollow plate or disk of thin German silver, moulded to the shape of the rupture, when so far reduced by taxis as to be comfortable to the patient. In the hollow should he fitted an air-pad of India rubber, with an India-rubber tube placed on tlie rim, to prevent its cutting in or chafing when the belt is tightened up; the belt should fit well down into the groins, should have elastic side-pieces, and should lace up behind. Ventral Hernia. Ventral herniee, near the usual site of umbilical hernia, rarely allow of inter- ference for a radical cure, from the causes just explained regarding the latter. When small, and placed near the inguinal region, however, they may some- times be dealt with on the same principles as inguinal herniie, especially if passing partly through the inguinal canal or external ring. Sometimes they make their appearance in one of the liiiem semihmares, with an aponeurotic sac, especially after distension from pregnancy; or they may arise after a wound, or after an operation such as laparotomy. An alidominal belt and pad, as just described for undiilical hernia, is the best application in most cases. If they become subject to strangulation, which is rare, the operation should be conducted in the same manner as that already described for umbili- cal hernia. Obturator or Thyroid Hernia. This is a rare form of hernia. Covei-ed by a sac derived from the pelvic pouch of peritoneum, it dilates and passes through tlie opening formed by tlie passage of the obturator vessels and nerves below the superior pubic ramus. In a case of this kind, fatal from strangulation, great pain was felt passing down the thigh in the course of the obturator nerve. In another case, how- ever, in which the late Mr. Hilton opened the abdomen unsuccessfully in search of an internal obstruction, and found a small knuckle of bowel strangu- lated in the obturator opening, tliis important symptom was not observed. In a }iatieiit with symptoms of internal strangulation, there was a slight degree of fulness in the upper and inner part of Scarpa’s triangle, inside the femoral artery and'the saphenous opening. The surgeon, Mr. OI)re, ma<le a straight, exploratory incision over this tumor, down to the saphenous opening, wliere a hardness was observed under tlie adductor portion of the fascia lata. On dividing this fascia and the pectineus muscle below it, a hernial sac was exposed, rising into the wound to the size of a pigeon’s egg. The sac was o[)cned, and some small intestine exposed; the strangulating edge of the obturator