PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 921 out of 59 cases of gunshot wound of the liver, uncomplicated with lesions of other organs; and 87 recoveries ont of 111 cases of shot-Avound of the liver complicated by various grave injuries either of the abdomen or other regions. Wounds of the liver are very fre({uently associated with fractures of the loAver ribs and spine, and with Avounds of the diaphragm and other viscera at the upper part of tlie abdomen. General hepatitis, demonstrated after death as Avell as clinically, Avas present in only a small proportion of the cases Avhich occurred in the Avar of the Eebellion. As in gunshot Avounds of the lung, general pleurisy and pneumoiua are the exceptional, not tlie usual consequences, the inflammatory changes lieing as a rule limited to the imme- diate vicinity of the bullet track; so in the case of shot-Avounds of the liver, inflammation is localized, and partial hepatitis the result. Jaundice, though a constant symptom of general hepatitis, is rarely present in inflammation of small areas of the liver. Penetrating inounds of the gall-hladder and ducts are extremely rare on account of the srnall size and protected situation of those organs. They are A^ery fatal on account of tlie irritating action of tlie bile iqion the peri- toneum, OA^er Avhich it ditfuses itselt rapidly, dohn Bell,^ after speaking of Avounds of the bladder, sa}’s: “The AAmnnd of tlie gall-bladder is like this; for its fluid is stimulating in a still higher degree, and the patient A^eiy seldom escapes the ipiiek and deadly inflammation; the urine and the bile act like poisons tliroAvn into the abdomen, the patient dying a most miserable death.” Again, he says: “The bile is the highest stimulus, the urine next, the food and the teces are less irritating, and the blood least ot all; perhaps it is according to this order that the danger of these Avounds should be calculated, efl'usions of bile being the nu)st dangerous.”^ That the intensity of peritonitis from effusion of bile lias been exaggerated, i< shoAvn by the experiments on animals of Itbring,^ Ilerlin,^ and Oampaignac,® and b}" some of the recorded cases of extravasation of bile in the human subject. Bolin, in 1989, and Ivaltschmidt, in 1735, held that bile might be effused into the abdomen Avithout any immediate danger, but a century later, Sabatier, avIio had an opportunity of noticing the syni}itoms in a case of Avound of the gall-bladder, regai-ded fatal iieritonitis, after a feAv hours or days, as the necessary result of extravasation of bile into the alxlominal caAnty. Saliatier’s vieAV is still the i)revailing one, but it requires modifica- tion, both as to the intensity of the inflammation and the rapidity of its course. tdgmptorns.—These are great abdominal tension and pain, especially in the right hypochoudrinm, Avith small, frequent, contracted and intermittent pulse, difficult respiration, sleeplessness and great restlessness, cold extremities and pinched, ]>ale countenance, and sometimes jaundice, hiccough, and nan sea. Dr. SteAvart® communicated to the Royal Society, of Jjondon, a case ot Avound penetrating the abdomen and fundus of the gall-bladder, Avithout <loing any material injury to the adjacent parts:— Tlie abdomen was immediately distended to an extreme degree, and the amounl of tympanites did not afterwards diminish. Tliere Avas conqilete constipation in spite of purgatives and clysters. A good deal of liquid nourishment was given ; anodynes failed to procure a moment of sleep, and there Avas incessant restlessness till the [latient’s * Op. cit., p. 356. ® Ibid., p. 358. ^ Diss. sistens experiment, de inutationibus quas materiie in eavuin jieritonei injectie .subeunt. TiiViing., 1817. '* .lourn. de Med., t. xxvii. ]>. 463. ® Philosojibioal Transactions, No. 414, p. 341. * .lourn. Ilebdoni., t. ii. p. 210