INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 946 f. The otlier varieties are merely speculative proposals which we do not feel justified ill recording. Such, then, are the endless varieties of methods proposed for applying sutures to wounded intestines. Their merits maybe summed up in a very few words. In partial wounds, the ordinary interrupted suture is the best. In complete division, or nearly so, tliree proceedings liave each met with great success: (1) the ordinary interrupted suture; (2) the ordinary uninterrupted suture; and (3) attaclunent of the gut to the external wound. The first two are to be preferred ; but experience and facts have not as yet decided their value relative to one anotlier. With the third, we run the risk of estab- lishing an artificial anus. Retro-peritoneal Extravasation and Suppuration. Extravasation into the sub-peritoneal or retro-peritoneal tissues may be either of air, blood, urine, feces, or pus. Air.—The source of the air is not always traceable, but its distribution is often very extensive. In a case already alluded to,* of rupture of the ileum just at the entrance of a hernial sac, there was a large quantity of air behind the peritoneum of the pelvis and both loins, and it had diffused itself along the vertebrae behind the diaphragm, into the posterior mediastinum and thence to the neck, from which it spread downwards, guided by the cervical fascia, to the shoulders, arms, and pectoral I’egions. All these pai’ts were distinctly distended with air, and crepitant to the touch. The source of the air could not however be traced : there was no injury to the lungs, and the possible and only apparent source was a perineal incision which had been performed on account of a rupture of the urethra complicated with fracture of the pelvis. In an interesting case under the care of Dr. Cayley, in the Middlesex Hos- pital, of aneurisms of the coeliac axis and superior mesenteric artery, for the treatment of which compression by means of the abdominal tourniquet bad been employed, there was extensive emphysema in the cellular tissue behind the ascending colon. The small intestines were eccbjmiosed, and at one spot the coats were thinned, and there was some submucous emphysema. The large intestines were normal. It is quite possible that the air in this case bad simply transuded into the reti’o-peritoneal tissues through the thinned walls of the ileum. Wounds of the loins, groins, and perineum, whether com- plicated with wounds of the bowel or not, and fractures of the lower ribs with lung-injury, may be the cause of this form of extravasation. Decom- position may in some cases explain the presence of gas. Retro-peritoneal abscess opening into bowel may of course give rise to it. Blood may be effused as the result of injury from an artery (as in a case already mentioned of ruptured mesentery and inner coat of the aorta), from a vein, or from capillaries. Violence inflicted upon the loins or ])elvis is very likely to cause extensive extravasation of blood into and beyond these regions, and the hoematoma so formed may, after a varying period of from several days to some few months, break down and suppurate. One might refer to many cases in which most extensive retro-peritoneal hemorrhage has ensued from fracture of the pelvis or lumbar spine. Injuries to the loin are sometimes followed by extravasation beneath the capsule of the kidney, as well as into the abundant peri-renal cellular and fatty tissue, without, it may be, any rupture of the capsule or distinct laceration of the renal substance. Some of the most frequent hemorrhages into the pelvis are those which are known as “ sub-peritoneal, or encysted, pelvic btematoceles;” in these cases a vaginal or rectal examination will reveal a soft, smooth, and elastic or fluctuating • See contusion and rupture of hernia.