294 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. walls of the meatus, we should keep our eyes directed upon the parts illu- minated at the bottom of the speculum, which is being gradually pushed, by a sort of boring motion, farther and farther into the canal. It is not neces- sary to push the instrument beyond the point at which a good view of the membrana ty mpani can be obtained. If we meet with obstructions, in the shape of cerumen, hairs, scales of epidermis, pus, etc., we must remove tliese, and for this purpose we shall find certain instruments almost indispensable. To most persons the syringe will suggest itself as the proper instrument to em- ploy for the removal of any such obstructions in the canal. Others will employ by preference delicately constructed angular forceps, with toothed ends (as shown, considerably magnified, in the cut), especially if the obstruc- tion be of such a nature that it may readily he grasped between the blades of such an instrument. If the body be more firmly lodged, the curette, or a Fig. 886. slender silver probe, will he found very useful in loosening it from its attach- ments to the walls of the canal. Probes and curettes are important accessory instruments. In veiy many cases, simple inspection of the parts leads us to wholly erroneous conclusions with regard to the true state of things. I might enumerate a great variety of pathological conditions which even the most experienced specialist would he very likely to interpret incorrectly, if he were not allowed to use the probe as a means of confirming or correcting the judgment which he had arrived at by sim})le, unaided inspection. Both the probe and the curette, however, must be delicately constructed, or the sur- geon will find them of comparatively little use, either as aids in making a Figs. 887, 888. c*urette and slender prote. correct diagnosis, or as substitutes for the forceps and syringe. The accom- panying cuts show sufficiently well the size, shape, and dimensions of these two valuable instruments. The curette is made of polished steel, and the probe of soft silver, without alloy. In the drawing of the probe, both the knobbed end and the adjacent portion of the shank are thicker than they should be. The ring-shaped end of the curette has carefully rounded edges.