DISEASES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. 379 mucous membrane, the changes consisting in the development of new con- nective-tissue elements and cellular infiltration in the deeper structures ; im- plication of the muciparous glands, which become distended, and their walls thickened, especially those located at the vault of the pharynx where the hypertrophic process expends itself more upon the glandular elements than upon the mucous membrane proper; and increased cell-growth in the epithe- lial elements, leading rapidly to abnormal thickening of the superficial layers ; the bloodvessels of the parts, at the same time, become dilated and increased in number, their hypertrophy occurring especially over the inferior turbinated bone, in the reticulated structure, or erectile stroma, which lies between the periosteum and the superjacent mucous membrane. This hypertrophy, involving then all the structures Avhicli overlie, especially the two inferior turbinated bones, seldom presents a perfectly smooth surface. At the posterior extremities of the inferior turbinated bones, the nodulation and irregular thickening ai’e most marked. The symptoms of this atfection are de[»endent upon the pathological changes which have been described. The hypertro})hy of the tissues, especially throughout the respiratory channel of the nose, leads to intermittent or per- manent occlusion and obstruction to the ])assage of the air current, while the involvement of the glandulte, especially at the vault of the pharynx, gives rise to an excessive discharge of thick, tenacious mucus, or muco-pus, of a yel- lowish and oj)aque appearance. Upon this ohstruction, caused by the hyper- trophied condition of the parts, depends also the interference with tlie senses of smell and taste, and ultimately—from this cause, and also from the extension of the infiammatory process—with the sense of hearing, through involvement of tlie Eustaeliian tubes and perha})S of the middle ear; and like- wise the change in the chai’acter of the voice, which acfiuires a nasal intona- tion. The increased fiow of secretion, prevented from ])assing normally from the anterior nares, runs into the [diarynx or lodges behind the velum, and is only removed thence by means of vigorous and disagreeable efforts at hawk- ing and clearing tlie throat. (It may here be observed, that this sensation or symptom, one commonly complained of liy the patient, needs to be difieren- tiated as to its cause from the precisely similar one, to which the presence of an elongated uvula will give rise.) Contrary to what is generally believed, fetid or offensive secretions are not an accompaniment of this variety of catarrh, nor is the occurrence of crusts a common occurrence. Ulceration never occurs, and epistaxis only occasionally, and then from the anterior por- tions of the nasal septum, and as the result of direct, mechanical interference with the parts by the patient (see page 397). Partly by the gradual extension of the inflammation, from the nares and upper pharynx to the contiguous parts, and partly through the pernicious results of enforced oral respiration (see page 402), constantly aggravated also, I do not doubt, by the violent efforts at hawking made by the patient, the inflammatory process extends to the lower pharynx, and thence invades, in course of time, both the larynx and upper trachea. Symptoms referable to the chronic inflammation of these organs—^niainly sore throat, cough, and alteration in the character of the voice—must then be added in time to those of the original condition. The mucous membrane of the whole upper respiratory tract, under these circum- stances, becomes irritable, and peculiarly susceptible to the influence of cold and dampness. Upon examination of the nose" anteriorly^ with the aid of a nasal speculum and good illumination, distinctive a}»pearances can be easily recognized. The visible mucous memln-ane is red, thickened, velvety in appearance, and vas- cular. The anterior hypertrophied extremity of the inferior turl)inated bone may project so far outwards into the nasal passage as to touch the septum.