STRANGULATED HERNIA. 1125 them to gravitate towards the diaphragm and away from the hernial point, and thus to draw the hernial contents into the aljdominal cavity. This action may he aided considerably by an assistant pressing gently with his hand on the abdomen near the rupture, sliding it slowly in a direction from the strangulated part, while the patient makes a long and deep expiration and slowly repeats it. Baron Seutin stated that he could sometimes relieve strangulation by insinuating the point of a finger into the tightened opening and stretching the constriction, but common sense and experience tell us that when the point of a finger can be introduced from without, there cannot be much strangulation present, and that if there were much, such a forcing in of the linger could not but be disastrous to the distended, tense, and softened tissues, and might easily burst the bowel. The most powerful auxiliary to the taxis is undoubtedly the inlluence of aiuesthetics, and of these, chloroform, from its greater inlluence in para- lyzing the muscles without much previous sjiasmodic contraction, is better than ether alone. The best of all is a mixture of chloroform, ether, and alcohol, one }»art of the last with two of the first, and tliree of the second. An anaesthetic should, in all cases in which there is no serious objection to its use, be employed as soon as it is found that the rupture does not return by the simple taxis. All other so-called auxiliaries, such as hot l)aths and fomenta- tions, blood-letting, antimony, opiates, and enernata, especially’ those of tobacco or other active drugs formerly employed, cause dangei’ous delay or injurious hindrance. In cases of the less acute kind, however, such as of large hernia; which have become infarcted, where tlio sym}itoms are not acute and point rather to obstruction than strangulation, the application of ice-bags to the tumor for a few hours, with the administration of enernata through a long rectal tube, to remove tlatus, etc., sometimes aid the taxis to a successful issue. Ice, as a rule, however, should not be ajitilierl to small crural hernia; occurring in aged women with thin tegumentary coverings. In such cases it may, if kept long on the congested bowel, produce mortification. Such cases, if the taxis fails, call imperatively for operative [)rocedure within forty- eight hours of the time of strangulation. If much force is used improperly in the taxis, the tumor may sometimes l)e made to disappear into the abdominal Avail without release of the strangu- lation. This is called redaction “ en or “ eyi masse” It most readily occurs when the strangulation is effected by the neck of the peritoneal sac itself, eitlier from intlammatory thickening, Avith internal bands or adljesions, or from external bands in the closely investing “ fascia transversalis.” By a disproportionate exercise of the pressing over the kneading }>rocess, the sac Avith its strangulated contents is })ushed into the loose sub-peritoneal tissues, or between the abdominal muscles and fascia on one side of the hernial canal, tearing asunder the tissues to make a lodgment for the sac. In some instances, the sac has l)een found burst near its neck by the force applied, and the contents forced through the torn aperture into the connective tissue betAveen the layers of muscles and fascia, or under the peritoneum. Here the sac is often found tilled Avith bloo<l, and there is extraARisation in the areolar tissue and sometimes Avithin the peritoneum. In such cases the symptoms of strangulation of course continue, and in an aggraA’ated degree, especially the pain and tenderness at the jtart; the collapse is more marked ; and a close manual examination of the hernial canal Avill reveal the presence of the hidden tumor, deep doAvn, close to the abdominal cavity. Under these conditions the only rational remedy is immediate exploration by ojic- ration. This proceeding requires much care, since the anatomical relations of the parts are greatly altered, and the tissues may be torn, In-uised, ecchy- mosed, and matted together by adhesions. The sac, or even the bowel, may