530 IIv'JURIES AKD DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. the .specific poison. The course and treatment of these cases differ in no respect from those of ordinary necrosis. The action of the fumes of phosi)horus in producing necrosis of the jaws in persons employed in lucifer-match making, has noiv been recognized for up- wards of forty years, Lorinser being the earliest writer upon the subject in Germany. The work of Von Bibra and Geist, of Erlangen (1847), and the Report to the Privy Council, by Dr. Bristowe (1863), give the best accounts of tlie disease, Avhich is now becoming rare, owing to the precautions taken in the manufacture of lucifers. It Avas found that, as long as Avorkers among phosphorus had perfectly sound teeth, their health remained unaflected ; but that as soon as the teeth became carious, or Avere from any cause extracted, the fumes of phosphorus found their Avay to the periosteum of the jaAvs, and excited periostitis Avith rapid )]ecrosis. The symptoms Avere severe, the sAvelling of the jaAvs and tissues of the face being extreme, and the discharge of purulent fluid from the mouth being constant and in large quantities. The general health became second- ai’ily afi’ected, the patient being Avorn out Avith pain and inability to take solid food, and in very severe cases being liable to gangrene of the gums and cheeks. All these discomforts have been put an end to by insisting upon cleanliness in the use of the phosphorus, by tlie careful examination of the mouths of the Avorkers, but most esiiecially by the employment of the amor- phous phosphorus in the manufacture of lucifer-matches. The remarkable point about phosphorus necrosis is the peculiar deposit of pumice-like bone which takes place upon the sequestra. This is doubtless deriAmd from the periosteum, although so closely adherent to the sequestrum as to be invariably brought aAvay Avith it; and though resembling true bone in some particulars, it is of a decidedly loAver development. A form of bone closely resembling this pumice-like deposit has, hoAvever, been noticed in cases in Avhich no phosphorus Avas involved, and it Avould appear that in some instances, possibly of rheumatic origin, the deposit of neiv bone pai'takes of this character. Whenever it does, it can in no Avay tend to the repair of the necrosis, for the deposit is always firmly adherent to the sequestrum, and must be removed Avith it. Besides phosphorus necrosis, 'taercurial necrosis Avas once common, not only as a consequence of the excessiA^e administration of mercury for antisyphilitic purposes, but as a result of the destructive ptyalism produced by the fumes of liquid mercury, as formerly employed in the manufacture of looking-glasses. When glass plates Avere convertei.1 into mirrors by sliding and compressing them on to sheets of tinfoil covered Avith pure quicksilver, the men em- ployed Avere liable to have their teeth drop out, and frequently lost portions of their jaws, their lives being notoriously shortened. Since the introduction of a chemical process by Avhieh the mercury is deposited on the glass, these cases of induced neci’osis have become almost unknoAvn. In ordinary cases of necrosis of the upper jaiv, no reproduction of bone takes place, the gap left in adults being permanent, though in children, the subjects of exanthematous necrosis, the granulation-tissue is sloAvly con- verted into fibrous tissue, Avhich does uot, as a rule, ossity. In the loAver jaAV, abundant ncAV bone is produced by the periosteum, and, for a time at least, most extensive losses are repaired. The museum of the Bellevue Hospital, ISTcav York, contains a remarlvable illustration of this in a large pliosphorus sequestrum, extracted l>y the late Dr. J. R. Wood from a girl Avho survived three }^ears, and in Avhom reproduction of a semicircle of ucav bone, about five-eighths of an inch broad, Avith all the ei>iphyses, took place (Erichsen). It is certain, hoAvever, that, in the course of years, a great, if not complete, reab- sorption of the ncAv bone thus formed takes place, the patient being left ulti-