79 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. from concussion, even without any cerebral contusion, and this inflammation sets in very early, sometimes even within a few hours. I am, therefore, in the habit, in cases of concussion, unless the patient has lost much blood, or is from any cause peculiarly feeble, of directing that the strictest antiphlogistic regimen shall be pursued for the first forty-eight hours, that is to say, that northing but water shall be allowed. Dry cold should be applied to the head, which should he shaved if the case he a bad one. The room must be darkened and the head kept slightly elevated. A calomel purge, followed by a saline, should be at once administered. After the first forty-eight hours, or from the outset if the patient be feeble or have lost much blood, a milk diet must be substituted for the starvation plan, lest suppuration should he favored by de- pression of the bodily powers. I prefer, however, that the smallest rpiantity of milk compatible with supporting the patient’s strength should be indulged in until after the fifth or sixth day, that is, until after the usual time of onset of intracranial inflammation. I know that with many this system of treat- ment is out of vogue, but when judiciously resorted to, I am satisfied that it is the safest course to pursue, and on this plan I have treated a number of severe head-injuries without anything indicating that I had better have resorted to other measures. Upon the other hand, an increase of diet has been followed over and over again by vertigo, increased headache, and fever, all of which symptoms have spontaneously subsided upon returning to a more meagre allowance. At the first onset of pronounced cerebral inflammation, in very vigorous patients, venesection may be resorted to in just sufficient quantity to sensibly affect the pulse. I i)refer, however, to rely upon wet-cupping or leeching, without venesection, and, should the latter have been resorted to at first, Avet cups to the nape of the neck should be used if occasion arise fix’ the further abstraction of blood. I am persuaded that free cup]fing cannot tail to be of decided benefit in many of the cases Avhich are received into our large hos- pitals. The system should he as ra^iidly as possible gotten under the influence of mercury, and to thisend one-fourth of a grain of the mild chloride, combined Avith an equal amount of opium,^ should be exhibited eA^ery tAAm hours. Siiould the system prove rebellious, mercurial inunctions may he used as adjuAmnts. AVhen the abstraction of blood is thought inadmissible at the outset, or Avhen no longer considered advisable, free and frequent purgings are indicated, ahva^^s remeniljering that the patient under treatment is to be considered, not as a supposititious “ case” of encephalitis for AAdach such and such remedies have been recommended, but as a person Avhose condition varies from day to day, nay, from hour to hour. Intermittent compression of the carotids has been recommended by ISTeu- dorfer, Vanzetti, and others, and Avhere practicable it might he tried, as it should theoretically prove beneficial. Sleeplessness, or the furious delirium Avhich occasionally supervenes Avithin the first fcAv days after a head-injury, must be relieved by the cautious use of opium. I camiot enter into theoretical reasons Avhy opium is not harmful in head-injuries, as is so often contended. I oidy knoAv that I do not hesitate to use it Avhen it appears indicated, and that so far, in common Avith the most ex[)erienced surgeons, I have seen nothing but good result from its employ- ment. By quieting the heart’s action, less Iflood is sent to the brain, the mind is set at rest during sleep, and nervous fret and Avorry are relieved. Ufunm in some Avay unquestionalfly causes contraction of the periplieral capil- laries; Avhy should it not then similarly afiect those of the brain ? AVhen the * If this camonut of oj)iiim should produce too much droAVsiiiess, or stupoi’, especially in the case of children, it must, of course, bo diiuinislied.