FALSE ANUS. 97T course through some error or fault, and in this sense is aetually in use in natural history. I3ut it is longer and less English than “ false.” “Artificial” anus is thus reserved for, and ought to be restricted to, a new and abnormal outlet formed by surgical art for the purpose of aftbrding relief in cases of insurmountable obstruction in the bowel Ijelow, and of imperforate anus. In this sense there are three classical forms of artificial anus: 1. Lumbar; 2. Iliac; and 3. Eerineal. Exception has also been taken to the word anus, in all these cases; and not without ground, for in none of them does the opening possess a sphincter. A false anus differs from a fecal fistula in the greater size of the intestinal and external orifices, in their greater proximity to one another, and in the much greater cpiantity of intestinal contents which passes through them. The characteristics of a false anus are that: (1) the whole, or the greater part of Fig. 1115. Diagram of the relations of a false anns resulting from sloughing or a knuckle of ileum, a a, peritoneum cover- ing iliac fosste ; /t, point where peritoucuin forms part of infundibulum ; c, ^peron ; d e, fistulous track and outlet of false anus ; / upper part of gut; p, low’cr part of gut; /r, nieseuterv. (After Scarpa and Otis.) the fecal matter escapes ; (2) the will of tlie iudividual has no influeuce in re- tarding the escape; (3) the swollen, and more or less protruding, mucous membrane of tlie ends of the intestine becomes still more protruding during the escape of the fecal matters ; (4) the ends of the liowel are adherent to the surrounding parts by false membrane. Situation.—A false anus may lie situated in any part of the abdomen: as the result of external violence it is met with in the loins, hypochondria, umbi- lical, iliac, hypogastric, and sacral regions ; but as theresnlt of disease it most commonly affects the hernial regions—^inguinal, scrotal, femoral, and umbili- cal—and more particularly the first two. Any point in the intestinal canal may be the seat of the internal opening, hut it is most frequent in a part which, being free to reach the herrdal apertures, can thus be strangulated in VOL. V.—02