492 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. flap of healthy integument may be attached to it by sutures, and union will take place. In transplanting a flap of integument to fill up a chasm, great care sliould be taken to secure a suflicient vascular supply to maintain its vitality, by allowing ample breadth to its peduncle, and by including in the .Fig. 1002. Fig. 1003. Mode of repairing deficiency of edge of lower lip, (After Szymanowski.) flap a suflicient thickness of subcutaneous cellular tissue. The success of a plastic operation depends very much on the absence of tension, and on the free- dom with which the flaps are brought into position. AThen the transplanted flaps are of considerable thickness, and when they traverse an extensive space, they should be held in position by pin sutures extending through nearly their whole thickness. In addition to these deep sutures, fine silken sutures should be employed at short intervals to maintain a close union of the exter- nal lips of the wound. AVlien a certain amount of tension is unavoidable, it may be relieved in part by the use of bead sutures, as recommended by I)r. Buck, in his work on Reparative Surgery. For this purpose, silver wire should be passed through the whole thickness of the flaps, entering on one side and emerging on the other an inch or more from their line of union; the end of the wire on one side is passed through a glass bead, and then through a small disk of leather, and tied into a knot, while the other end of the wire is passed through a bead and drawn so as to bring the edges of the wound into close contact, and then twisted over a small piece of wood, such as the end of a friction match. The end of the wire should be left long, to admit of its being I’eadjusted if it should become too tight or too loose. AVhen one or more bead sutures are employed to relieve tension, the edges of the wound should be accurately adjusted to each other by tine black silk stitches. AVhile the sutures are in position, no adhesive plasters, bandages, or compresses, or any other dressings should be employed, but if the parts become inflamed, cooling and astringent lotions may be applied. After the removal of tlie sutures, the recently united parts may be supported by means of adhesive plasters, or of shreds of lint moistened with collodion. After the flaps have become perfectly united, if there be at any part a superfluity of tissue, a small portion may be excised, being included between two semi-elliptical incisions, and the edges brought into contact and secured by fine sutures. Under these circumstances, union will take place more rapidly and more perfectly than if similar incisions had been made in parts whose natural relations had not previously been disturbed.