MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 146 information given elsewliere. As may be supposed, special symptoms may arise, due to implication of neighboring nerve-structures. Sir James Paget, for example, has recorded a remarkable case of great atrophy of the right half of the tongue consequent upon necrosis of the occiput after injury. The mischief had evidently implicated the hypoglossal nerve in its passage through the diseased'bone. On the removal of the sequestrum, the tongue rapidly regained its normal condition.' Prognosis.—In slight necrosis involving only the external table, a cure, as a rule, results after no very protracted period. AVhen the disease, however, is more extensive, and when the whole thickness of the bone is involved, the course may be very chronic, and often extends over months and years. Some of the most severe cases have ended in cure without a bad symptom, but as long as the sequestrum remains unseparated there is considerable risk to tlie patient. Death may occur from exhaustion, as in hlorris’s case quoted above, but more usually it is due to meningitis, or to suppurative thrombosis of some of the cranial sinuses, or to compression of the brain by pus between the dura mater and the bone, or to pyiemic infection. The probability of cere- bral mischief in any case is difficult to estimate. It is most common after necrosis in the mastoid process, and least common after like mischief in the frontal region. It has occurred in cases of most insignificant bone-disease on the one hand, and has been absent in cases where the dura mater has been freely exposed to a considerable extent. Speaking without the guidance of any actual statistics, cerebral troubles would appear to be more frequent after syphilitic necrosis than after the traumatic form of the disease. Treatment.—Collections of pus should be immediately evacuated, and free exit given to all discharges. Superficial necrosis of the outer table may be practically left to itself, or the process of exfoliation may be aided by a cautious application of sulphuric acid. Loose sequestra should be removed as soon as possible, and, if the necrosed piece be too large for convenient removal througli reasonable incisions, it may be so trephined as to allow of its being extracted in segments. Trephining also may be resorted to in those rare cases in which compression of the brain is being caused by a collection of pus between the dura mater and the bone. After the removal of the sequestrum, every pre- caution should be taken to protect the part from injury, while, at the same time, the wound is kept scrupulously clean. The knowledge that tlie dura mater is exposed in any case, would appear to me an argument in favor of early removal of the sequestrum, rather than an excuse for leaving it in situ for a while, as some have vaguely advised. Hypertrophy of the Skull.—Under the simple term “ hypertrophy,” or the vaguer title “ hyperostosis cranii,” several distinct and ditferent forms of morbid change in the cranial bones have been described. It is no matter of sui’- prise, therefore, that this subject has been involved in considerable confusion. Under the above title, we majq I think, recognize at least/oi«’ different forms of bone change. I do not maintain that these various forms represent of necessity ditierent pathological processes; That may or may not be the case. I would onl}" point out that a casual collection of so-called “ hypertropliied skulls” would (if numerically large enough) present such distinct and con- stant varieties as to enable us to classify them under the four following heads: 1. Simple hypertroph}’, general or local. 2. General “ concentric hyperostosis.” 3. “ Osteo-porosis” in its various forms, the “ diffuse excen- tric hyperostosis” of some authors. 4. “ Leontiasis ossium,” or “ limited ex- centric hyperostosis.” This medley of terms is the natural result of grouping 1 Trans, of Clinical Soc., vol. ii. p. 238.