INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 46 hours or days may elapse—the patient becomes unconscious ; the respiration, at first laborious, usually becomes stertorous, while, at times, there is a peculiar whitF at the corners of the mouth; the pupils are either contracted or dilated—generally the latter—or one is dilated and the other contracted, but in any event insensible, or nearly so, to light; the pulse is full and slow; and there is paralysis, more or less complete, of the side opposite to the eftu- sion, with diminution of its temperature. In addition, there may be retention of urine and involuntary discharge of feces. An epileptiform convulsion, after the interval of consciousness, may usher in the symptoms of compression. Prof. S. W. Gross reports the following instructive case;— A young soldier was struck senseless by a piece of shell, but soon recovered, vomited, and, although obliged to rest frequently, walked to the rear, a distance of nearly three miles. He appeared drowsy and unwilling to move, after each stoppage. He was per- fectly rational, was restless during the early part of the night, moaning so as to disturb his companion, but at the latter’s request keeping quiet, and in the morning seemed in a profound sleep. His comrade failing to rouse him. Dr. Gross was called, and found him in a state of profound coma, with a slow, stertorous, puffing respiration. The pulse was eighty-four, small and feeble; the “pupils dilated—the left nearly to its utmost extent—and completely insensible to light.” Slight left hemiplegia was noted, with contraction of the flexors of both arms. “ The left leg was firmly extended, power- less, and not so sensible to external impressions as the right, which was in the same condition, but to a less degree.” There was a lacerated scalp-wound, just below the right parietal eminence, without fracture. Death ensued after five hours, and, upon opening the skull, an enormous clot was found between the left parietal bone and the dura mater, completely filling the middle fossa of the skull, and thus compressing the left third nerve at the sphenoidal fissure. A linear fracture passed through the left spheno-parietal suture, dividing the bony canal inclosing the middle meningeal artery, which was torn. Corresponding to the site of the contused but unbroken bone, the brain was ecchymotic, and contained a small clot, “ the size of a hazel-nut.”^ This case teaches two important lessons, viz., that the eftusion of blood may take place upon the side opposite^ to that of injury; and that rupture of the meningeal artery is apt to be complicated with contusion of the brain.^ An explanation is also afforded of the condition of the pupils. When the third nerve upon one side only is compressed, the pupil of that side will be dilated, while if the nerves of both sides are pressed upon, both pupils will be dilated. It is probable that where one pupil is dilated and the other really contracted—not merely in its normal condition—the nerve upon the side of dilatation is so compressed as to have its function abolished, while upon the side of contraction the effusion has simply irritated the nerve and exalted its func- tion. I dwell upon these minuter points because of the marked obscurity in the diagnosis of the injuries now under consideration. If the corpora quadri- gemina be either compressed or much lacerated, dilatation of the pupil occurs; a fact which must not be lost sight of, lest a severe contusion or laceration of the brain be overlooked. In exceptional cases there may be no loss of con- sciousness, and this condition may persist until shortly before death. The hemiplegia may also be imperfect, or may even be transient, with so large an effusion as three ounces poured out in the sphenoidal fossa.^ With large effu- sions there may be no stertor; the pupils may be normal or nearly so; the pulse may be soft, compressible, frequent, or irregular; and paralysis may be absent or incomplete. 1 Loc. cit., p. 45. 2 Ericlisen reports a similar case. (Op. cit., vol. i. p. 555.) ^ In twenty-five cases of large extravasations of blood between the bone and dura mater, observed at St. George’s Hospital, the brain was more or less extensively lacerated in every one. Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 576. Hutchinson, London Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. 44.