918 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. separation of these sloughs maybe at any time from the eiglith to the fourteenth day. The great ditference between ])rimary and secondary effusion, is that the })rimary is generally into the cavity of the abdomen, whereas the secondary extravasation is very commonly at the external wound, adhesive inflammation having sealed the peritoneal cavity from the wounded part of the viscus, and the wounded viscera to one anothei’. In this way, if two or more coils of in- testine have been penetrated by the shot, thej’ become united to one another around about the Avounds, and if sloughs subsequently separate, they fall into the interior of the bowel and are passed off Avith the stools. As John Hunter says, in describing the case of a young man Avho recovered Avithout an arti- ticial anus, after being shot through the abdomen by three balls:— 1 concluded that wliatever cavities tlie balls bad entered, there the surrounding parts bad adhered, so that the passage of tlie ball was by this means become a complete canal, and therefore that neitlier any extraneous bodies that had been carried in with the balls and had not been carried through, nor any sloughs that might separate from the sides of the canal, nor the matter formed in it, could now [about a fortnight after the inflic- tion of the wound] get into the cavity of the abdomen, but must be conducted to the external surface of the body, either througli the wounds, or from an abscess forming for itself, which would work its oavu exit somewhere. But tliis conclusion was supposed to be too hasty, and soon after a new symptom arose which alarmed those Avho did not see the propriety of my reasoning, Avhich was some feces coming through the wound ; this new sympton did not alter my opinion respecting the whole operations of nature to secure the cavity of the abdomen, but as I saw the possibility of the wound becoming an artificial anus, I was sorry for it. Penetrating gunshot Avounds of the abdomen are for the most part fatal. Alcock says that of 18 eases in the Prnssitin Avar, betAveen 1836 and 1837, all ended in death; and Poland states that during the revolution of Paris, in July, 1848, there Avere a gretit number of such Avounds, and for the most part fatal. MatthcAV records thtit in the British army in the Crimea— Where penetration of the abdominal caAuty by gunsliot injury was considered to be beyond doubt, death was the rule, recovery the rare exception, only nine patients having survived out of 12U Avhere this was believed to have taken place, and even of this small number some of tbe cases Avere not nneipiivocal. M. Chenu states that, in the French itrrny in the same Avar, out of 121 penetrating shot Avounds of the abdomen 111 died ; and as regards the Italian eaitipaign in 1859, he says, “ wounds, very graA^e usually, gave a great mortality in the fleld, and an ecptally great mortality in the hospitals.” "Writing of icoivuJs of the viscera irithin the peritoneal cavity during the American "War of the Bebellion, Dr. Otis says that “ he has sought to analyze the diflerent varieties of this group, and to estimate the eompai’ative mortality of wounds of the liver, spleen, and kidneys, and of the alimentary canal; and it is believed that those avIio Avill take the trouble to examine the evidence, will be unable to resist the coiudusion that, Avhile recoveries from Avounds of the liver are more frequent than Avas formerly lielievcd, and wounds of the spleen and kidney occasionally, and those of the colon frequently, terminate favorabljq the rarity of recoveries from Avounds of the stomach and small intestine treated Avithout o])erative interference is extreme.”^ In the numerical statement of the cases of penetrating Avound of the abdo- men during the American AVar (Table lA^.), out of 79 cases of gunshot wound of the stomach, 19 ended in recovery; and of 653 cases of gunshot Avound ot the intestine, 118 ended in recovery, and in 51 the results Avere unknoAvn. But of these cases of recovery after Avounds of intestines, the largest group ■ Med. and Surg. History of War of Rebellion. Part II., Surgical Volume, p. 205.