1041 HYDATIDS. abdominal incision, and drainage tlirougb tlie lower angle of the wound is necessary. In a case of multilocular ovarian cyst jammed within the pelvis, and universally adherent to its viscera, pus escaped from one of the cysts during removal, and afterwards two or three others were found to have suppurated. A drainage tube was not introduced into the abdomen, but a thin, blood-stained serum escaped for three or four days from the lower angle of the ovariotomy wound. The patient made a good recoveiy, some- what retarded though by an abscess in the abdominal wall. There was nothing prior to the operation to indicate the existence of suppuration in any part of the cyst. Hydatids. A hydatid, or, in other words, an echinococcus-cyst, is the larval form of a tapeworm—the Tcenia ecJmiococcus—whicli infests the upper intestines of dogs and wolves, and consists of not more than three joints. The formation of a hydatid cyst in man is very slow, and results only from the ingestion of the tapeworm eggs, which are swallowed with the food or drink; impure water, to which dogs have access, is a very common vehicle for these eggs in their ]»assage to the human stomach. A liydatid tumor consists of (1) a thick, gelatinous, elastic, gray, translu- cent bladder, having a laminated, hyaline structure; this is the ectocyst of Huxley; (2) a thin, delicate, soft, ljut not very elastic, membrane, lining the ectocyst, and having usually upon its inner surface crowds of minute bodies like Avhite grains; this is the germinal membrane, the endocyst of Huxley, and it is, moreover, the essentially vital paid of the ecliinococcus-cyst or “bladder-worm,” as the hydatid is also styled ; (3) very minute buds or gemmte which are produced by the endocyst, and remain for a time attached to it by means of a stalk, either singly or in groups, and are covered by a thin, delicate sac continuous with it; these buds are the minute,white grains seen on the inner surface of the endocyst, and they develoi> into scoUces, oi- echinococcus-heads, which are the embryos of the Tienia echinococcus, and which liave the ana- tomical characters of the head of the tapeworm; the double circlet of book- lets, and tlie four oval suckers placed at regular intervals outside the liooklets, together with the head that carries them, may be seen either protruded from, or retracted within the little sac with which the head is continuous; (4) a f[uaiitity of clear watery fluid which distends the endocj’st, and within which float numerous vesicles of various sizes, some of the smallest being still adherent to the germinal membrane. These vesicles are the secondary or daugliter ochmococcus cysts; and many of the larger contain a third, and these again a fourtli generation. Hr. T. S. Cobliold, F.R.S., in a letter which he has written to me upon this subject, says: “The production of daughter and grand-daughter liydatids by jiroliferation or budding, bas given rise to much controversy. Leuckart holds that these secondary formations ordinarily take their origin at different points between the lamelhie of the ectocyst. Xaunyn, on the other hand, holds that the daughter-vesicles are special bud-developments of the endocyst. I think that the jirocess as observed by Leuckart is exceptional: that tlie vesicles are abnormal scolices developed from buds of the endocyst; with Naunyn, I hold that the endocyst is pri- marily concerned not merely with the production of ecbinococcus-heads, but also with the formation of the secondary and tertiary hydatids, whether exogenous or endogenous. In other words, and in agreement with the views of Von Siebold, Wagener, and Bremser, it is thought that the secondary or VOL. V.—(16