CRURAL OR FEMORAL HERNIA. 1161 week or ten days, when it can be removed, after being untwisted, without difficulty, as tlie wires by this time will have ulcerated through the tissues, so as to be in close proximitjg and will often lie in the same track. The drainage is ke})t free by the lower end of the twisted wire while it is in place. When it is withdrawn, the dressings should be so arranged as to allow the pus free exit. Fig. 1148. Mode of securing the wire. When cicatrization has been completed, a soft truss-pad of an oval sliape (as described in the section on trusses) should be applied over cotton wool and dusting powder, and subsecpiently re[>laced by a bardei’, vulcanite pad. Operation after llerniotorni/ for Straiigulation.—When under the spray the sac has been opened, the stricture divided, the lioivel and omentum drawn down and examined carefully, and the former found not essentially injured, with no ulceration at the strangulated part, and no apjiearance of spliacelus, the 0})e- ration should be concluded by tying up the neck of the sac l)y strong catgut, at the level of the crural ring, and cutting otf the sac just l)clow. If the sac be large, the catgut should be made to transfix it, and should be tied tightly on each side. Then after passing the needle through Poupart’s ligament on the one hand, and througli the pubic fascia lata and Gimbei’iiat’s ligament on the other, as above described, the needle should again be passed horizontally througli the pubic fascia lata, just lielow its insertion into the ])ectineal line, and the inner end of the wire liooked on and drawn through. Then the two ends of the wire should be twisted together, and the loop drawn up and twisted firmly down into the upper skin puncture. A drainage-tube sboidd next be placed in the lower part of the Avound, reaching as high as the closed crural ring, and two or three [)oiuts of suture applied. Upon the protective, a d()iil)le pad of wet, carbolized gauze should be ]»laeed, so arranged that a groove is left to lodge the end of the drainage-tube, and to give free exit for any discharge. Then the rest of the antiseptic dre.ssing is to be applied, witli plenty of loose paddino’, esi)ecially on the inner side, to absorb the discliarge, and a