FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-PASSAGES. 671 or probe. A bougie with a metallic tip will give a click, as it strikes the object. Laryngoscopic inspection will usually reveal the foreign body, if present in the larynx, and sometimes if in the trachea.^ In children an ansesthetic may be used, and the jaws may then be separated, the tongue held forward, and the laryngoscopic inspection attempted—sometimes with success, usually without it. If symptoms of suffocation be urgent, tracheotomy should be performed before the inspection is made. Macnamara^ saved a life in tliis way by tracheotomjy recognized a large piece of fat bacon laryngoscopically, and removed it. Auscultation of the trachea will detect a loose body there. Auscultation of the lungs will detect impaction in a bronchus. Obstruction of the left bronchus usually produces absence of respiration over tbe entire lung of that side, but occlusion of the right bronchus usually produces absence of respira- tion over the lower lobe of that side only, the division of the bronchus taking place much nearer the bifurcation, and the foreign body rarely lodging above the point of division. In deciding between the presence of a foreign body and disease, it is main- tained that the increased effort in respiration in the case of a foreign body, as contrasted Avith the increased frequency in disease, will sulhce for the dis- crimination.® Prognosis.—The prognosis is serious. Although foreign bodies sometimes remain for years without producing much apparent injuiy,^ their retention usually entails more or less of the following results; traumatic intlammation of the air-passage—which may be followed by oedema of the larynx, abscess, ulceration, gangrene, and necrosis—pneumonia, pulmonary abscess, })leuritis, pericarditis, hepatitis, or oesopliagitis. On the strength of an autopsy in one of his own cases, Ingals® calls attention to the likelihood of heart-clot occur- ring as a result of olistructed respiration. Furtlierniore, fatal inflammation has resulted although the foreign body has been expelled spontaneously. In view of these facts it seems proper to remove the foreign body by surgical procedure if there is any likelihood of success. ^V’eist,“ in an analysis of 1000 eases, gives 460 recoveries among 599 patients not operateil on, or 76.79 per cent., against 245 recoveries among 338 operated upon, or 72.48 per cent. Much, however, depends upon the character of the cases. It is to be ]:»resumed that, as the rule, the severest cases have been treated by operation, and that the mildest ones have been treated expec- tantly. Should this have been the case, tlic i-ecoveries would have been far more numerous had there been a greater ]>roportion of operations. Dr. W. J. Sinitld adds the statistics of Gross and Durham to those of Weist, and reverses his result; 283 deaths among 955 patients not operated u})on, or 29.78 ])er cent., and 178 deaths among 719 operated upon, or 24.75 per cent.— the entire proportion being one death in 3.5 of the unoperated cases, and 1 in 4 of the operated. Durham’s® statistics alone give a much better showing for ’ Major, of Montreal, detected a tooth and plate at the hifurcatioii. Archives of Laryngology, October, 1882, p. 3.')!. * Brit. Med. .Jour., May 30, 1874, p. 714. ^ Parke, Med. Times and Gazette, April 1(3, 1881, p. 429. ■I Cameron, Liverpool Med. and Surg. Rep., October, 1870 (penny in larvnx six years, seen laryngoscopically and removed with forceps); Cohen, op. cit., pp. (317, (j19, and Trans. Path. Soc. Phila. ; Semon, Brit. Med. .Jour., April 21, 1883, p. 770. (A pin remained impacted in the larynx for thirteen months.) ® Independent J’raotitioner, .June, 1882, p. 3G4. ® 0{>. cit. 7 London Med. Record, June 1(3, 1884, p. 238. * Op. cit., 3d ed., vol. i. p. 70.').