1132 HERNIA. be strong and extensive, detention of the testicle within the abdominal cavity. If the adhesions are capable of elongation, the force of the gubernacular trac- tion is sufficient to allow tiie testicle to reach into the inguinal canal, or to the top of the scrotum, immediately outside of the superhcial ring. Some- times this force is sufficient to draw down the sac of peritoneum, and even the epididymis (which may become unravelled and elongated), while the testicle itself remains within the abdominal cavity, or in the canal. "We may then have one of those troublesome forms of liernia which are complicated with non-descent of the testicle. In all these cases, there is usually a deticiency of development in the cremaster and gubernaculum, as well as in the lower fibres of the internal oblique muscle, leaving a characteristic bulging of the groin. The scrotum and dartos also participate in the deficiency, and on the affected side, or on both sides of these structures, are shrunken and undevel- oped. The testicle should be found in the foetal scrotum in the last month of intra-uterine life, and of course at birth, and it is one of the duties of the accoucheur to observe if this condition be fulfilled, since the first cries and struggles of the infant tend powerfully to force down the thin intestines along the unclosed and unprotected canal of ISTuck. Thus we have formed a congenital hernia (hig. 1129), the sac of which is formed by the tunica vagi- nalis itself, or its representative sac of peritoneum. In this form, the bowel descends into the scrotum so as to touch and pass in front of the testicle, or even below its level, so tiiat the gland is obscured as in common hydrocele. This variety of hernia is usually easily reducible, leaving the testicle distinct and evident to the touch. The canal of ISTuck, or channel,of communication between the tunica vaginalis and the peritoneum, becomes closed, first at the deep ring, leaving Fig. 1129. Fig. 1130. Diagram of congenital liernia. Diagram of infantile [or encysted] hernia* a cicatrix which is always more or less traceable. The obliteration extends down the cord to within half an inch of the testicle. The serous mem- brane degenerates and is transformed into connective tissue, which more firmly binds together the elements of the cord. Sometimes the oblitera- tion extends only to the parts near the deep ring. Then, while the cicatrix