DISEASES OF THE SCALP. 129 cysts that have certainly perforated the skull. Mr. Athol Johnson* reports a fiital case of this kind. Sir Prescott HewettJ on the other hand, reports a case in Avhich a dermoid cyst, after causing no trouble for twenty years, grew, perforated the orbital roof, and caused death. An unusual case of this kind, however, should hardly lead us to advocate an early removal in all instances. III. Serous cysts are extremely rare. They are either (1) congenital, or (2) formed from extravasated blood, or (3) formed from a meningocele whose connection with the cranial cavity has been cut otf. Those that are con- genital are, as a rule, small, multi-cystic, situate in the occipital region, and located either above or beneath the aponeurosis.^ They contain clear serum, too rich in albumen to he mistaken for cerebro-spinal fluid. Billroth gives an example of a serous cyst over the occiput as large almost as the patient’s head. The subjacent bone was cpiite sound. The history of tlie case would, in each of the three forms, greatly assist the diagnosis. The treatment of such tumors rerpiires no special notice. Vascular Tumors OF the Scalp.^—Ncevus; Telangeiectasis ; Simple or Plexi- form, Angeioma ; Cavernous Angeioma ; Erectile Tumor. The various forms or varieties of vascular growth included under these difterent terms are all met with on the scalp, and may be conveniently considei’ed under the common and generic term Ncevus. ISTtevi occur more frequently on the head than on any other part of the body, ami, according to Ileineke, arterial angeiomata may be said to belong exclusively to the head.® Vrevi may occur anywhere on the scalp, but are most common about the anterior fontanelle, the orbit, and the temple. Tliey are much less common about the occiput. As Vir- chow has pointed out, angeiomata are often located on the sites of the l>ran- chial clefts—the “ turneurs erectiles fissurales” of French authors. The undue frerpiency of nrevi about the head may perhaps he due to the dependent ]ios- ture of the head in foetal life, and to injury inflicted during birtli. The superficial or capillary naevus is more commonly met with on the head than is the deeper or venous n:wus, or cavernous tumor, the latter being generally limited to the haiiy i>art of the scalp, while the former may occur anywhere. All these growths are, for the most ]^)art, congenital, and appear at or soon after birth. The superficial naevus is not met with at an earlier period than are the deeper gro\vths—the suhcutaneous or venous naevus, or cavernous angeioma. There is little limit in the size of these tumors; some may he enor- mous, and may occupy wide tracts of tlie head. As Chelius® observes, some of the largest and most rapid growths have been met with about the ear. Mr. BarwelF remarks that naevus over the mastoid process may “by growth in size and comj)lexity become a cirsoid aneurism.” A growing naevus under the hairy scalp causes baldness, the hairs falling out as the atrophy of the skin progresses. These tumors may extend in depth and involve the galea, the pericranium, and even the hone, Avhich in such cases becomes porous from the number of its vessels.^ They may, on the other hand, undergo sponta- neous cure, especially after an inflammation of the soft parts. Such a cure usually occurs in the su])erfleial, cutaneous n^evi, and is much less frecpient in the more deeply seated tumors, or in the cavernous angeiomata. JJiagnosis.—ThQ&Q blood-tumors may be conveniently divided into 1, the cu- * Loc. cit., p. 15. ^ Loc. cit., St. George’s Hosp. Reports, p. 93. ^ Ward, Trans, of Path. Soc. of London, vol. xi. p. 2G8. I860. < See Vol. III. p. 353. ^ Loc. cit., S. 22. ® Chelius’s Snrgery, translated hy South, vol. ii. p. 381. ^ Lancet, vol. i. p. 642. 1875. * Dr. Robert Lee (Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxii. p. 300. 1829) gives the case of a monster with extensive iifevoid growth of the scalp that involved also the dura mater, the intervening hone being absent. He gives references to cases of somewhat like character.