1145 INGUINAL HERNIA. strengthened by adhesion, and the rounded knuckle of bowel can no longer enter the deep ring, and thus, the most etfectual preventive of the formation of a hernia in the healthy inguinal canal, is restored and even strengthened by the operation. Uidess this is accomplished, the cure is not a satisfactory one; and one of the chief causes of failure in the hands of heginners is the want of dexterity and exjierience in obtaining a hold upon the conjoined tendon with the needle-point, at the tirst stage of the procedure. In some cases, no doubt, a ivant of substance and development in the con- joined tendon causes it to give way before the needle, and to tear under the traction of the v’ire. In other cases, where the hernial rings are large in diameter and close to one another, with no length of canal between them— as in direct herniie, and in old ohlirpie herniin which have become, in effect, direct, and in which a patch or plug of invaginated tissue is necessary to supply an absolute deficiency of the abdominal wall—the inherent weakness will re- cpiire afterward, perhaps, a longer, or even the continued use of a liglit truss. If care he exercised, however, in placing and keeping on a proper truss, such cases may he strengthened and fortified, so fhat the rupture may not return, and even if the groin remains weak and bulgy, and threatens to reproduce a rupture, ultimate success may be obtained. And in another class of cases, doubtless, adhesions, at first firmly resisting and efficacious (if not deposited Avhen the patient is in robust health), may yield, under continued }iressure, just as in other cases of operation for prolapsus of various kinds. lii less aggravated cases, the truss may usually he left off after nine or twelve mouths, the patient being at fii-st careful to put it on occasionally, when likely to he called upon for much muscular effort. A bulgy Aveakness of the groin may he api)arent after the hernial canal is securely closed, from a Avant of development in the knver muscular and other fibres of the internal olilirpie and transversalis muscles; hut this condition rarely requires more than the occasional use of a light truss, such as Avould be recommended for Aveak groins Avhich had never been actually subject to hernia. When it is considered that in such cases, generally, no truss has been effectual in keeping up the rupture before the operation, the advantage gained by the latter becomes sufficiently convincing. l>y the method just described I have operated iqiAvards of two hundred times consecutively, Avith not a single seiloiisly had symptom occurring. The aA'erage period of convalescence has been about a montli, from the ope- ration to the healing of the loAver o})ening; the average time in lied about eighteen days. IJefore adopting the use of Avire, thread and compresses Avere enqiloyed, and Avhile the stcqis of the o])eration Avere im}ierfectly understood and carrietl out, and Avhen—perhaps still more important—cases were ope- rate<l on someAAdiat indiscriminately, to see Avhat could really he accomplished, three deaths occurred in the fii’st 100 cases; one from pyfemia, one from ery- sipelas, and the third from peritonitis, all having been published at the time in the meilical journals. Tavo of these cases Avei-e decidedly from Iiospital or other infection, Avhile the third case A\’as a peculiar one; the necropsy clearly shoAA'ed that fatal peritonitis liad lieen set up by a knuckle of intestine Avhich had Ijcen involved in the sac before the operation, Avith the truss pressing upon it. The focus of iiffiammatory action was found around the damaged and congested loop ot bowel, on the o/>j)osife side of the .abdomen to that which Avas the seat of the rupture and of the operation. The sac operated on, and the peritoneum in its neighborhood, all around, Avere free from all traces or consequences of inflammation. In no case has any trouble arisen from hemorrhage, nor have tliere been any signs of injury to the epigastric, femoral, iliac, or other vessels.