LUXATION OF THE CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. 663 surface of the plate of the cricoid cartilage, their bodies lying horizontally, and being closely united by cicatricial tissue.^ In this instance, likewise, the lesion was attributed to contraction of a syphilitic cicatrix in the posterior wall of the larynx. As far as these meagre records are available, they seem to indicate that cicatricial contraction of an ulcer may be regarded as a cause of the dislocation. Judging from the laryngoscopic image alone, unsupported by post-mortem evidence, or by the published observations of other writers, it has seemed to me that luxation or suhluxation of a supra-arytenoid cartilaye is an accident of occasional occurrence. In several subjects, principally singers who have become hoarse after unusual vocal exertion, I have noticed the supra-arytenoid cartilage of one side to incline decidedly forward and inward, in marked con- trast to the erect position of the cartilage of the other side. The lesion does not seem to be of any special signilicance. Symptoms.—The symptoms of dislocation of an arytenoid cartilage are not characteristic. They comprise difficulty in respiration and in phonation, with other manifestations clue to the concurrent injury or disease which has occasioned the lesion. The symptoms described in Holden’s case of disloca- tion of the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage—namely, acute pain, sense of sutfocation, hemorrhage, dyspnoea, dysphagia, and aphonia—are indicative of concurrent contusion of the larynx. Diagnosis.—-As reported in the three instances cited, the laryngoscopic image in dislocation of the arytenoid cartilages presents a close resemblance to that of paralysis of the dilating muscles of the larynx; a circumstance which might be regarded as liable to induce a mistake in diagnosis, were it not for the recognition of the displacement of the cartilage. The diagnosis must rest chiefly on laryngoscopic inspection, in eases of internal origin, and on direct inspection and palpation in cases of external origin. In Holden’s case of dislocation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, the point stuck out so as to present a prominence readily recognized. As the result of ulcerous processes in tuberculosis, in typhosis, and in syphilis, an arytenoid cartilage may become detached from its seat, and hang over into the interior of the laryngeal tube ; but this is hardly a luxation in the strictly surgical sense of the term. Prognosis.—The prognosis as regards reduction of the dislocation of an ary- tenoid or supra-arytenoid cartilage is imfavorahle. As regards the life of the patient, it depends upon the position occupied by the displaced cartilage. If it occlude the glottis, tracheotomy and permanent retention of the canula may readily become necessary to insure due freedom of respiration. The prognosis in dislocation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid cai'tilage seems to be unfavorable, likewise, judging from the record of Holden’s case, in which attempts at reduction were unavailing. Treatment.—A dislocated cartilage, complicating a gunshot wound or a fracture of the larynx, should be removed, as there are no means of retaining it in position. In cases similar to those cited in the text, tracheotomy might be required, as mentioned under the heading of prognosis. In case of dislo- cation of the horn of tlie thyroid cartilage, attempts might be made to retain the parts in apposition by a compress and bandage, or by traction with adhe- sive strips. ' Sidlo, cited by Ziemssen (Cyclopedia of tlie Practice of Medicine, vol. vii. p. 968. New Y^ork, 1876;.