TRAUMATIC PERITONITIS. 889 become compressible, and yet, owing to the feebleness of the heart’s action rather than to high arterial tension, it will remain non-dicrotic. A dicrotic pulse in peritonitis indicates some complication in the disease. The feeble state of the heart, and the cough, liiccough, and shallow respirations, are also largely due to the direct effect of the tension on the diaphragm and thoracic viscera by the great gaseous accumulation Avithin the abdomen. Intestinal movements are seen through the tense abdominal walls ; to the hand, the abdomen is smooth and regular, and tliough in the earlier stages the muscles contract on palpation, at a later stage the belly feels simply drundike, and the normal hepatic and splenic dulness is completely lost. The amount of fever, as indicated by the temperature chart, varies greatly. As a rule, the temperature rises rapidly in the early stage, and continues high for a day or two ; it has, however, no regular course, and remissions are not infrequent. In the asthenic form of acute peritonitis, the temperature may not rise at all, or may be even below normal. Indeed, in many cases after operation for hernia or ovariotomy, and in general blood-poisoning, all the symptoms of peritonitis are masked. Patients rapidly sink and die from peritonitis under such circumstances without complaining of abdominal pain, or evincing any of the characteristic local symptoms of the disease, except steadily increasing tympanites. In such eases, it is the increasing rate and diniinisbing volume of the pulse, the pinched features, restlessness, and cold, clammy skin, which Avarn the surgeon of the fate Avbich has overtaken his patient. The appetite in traumatic peritonitis is lost, thirst is intense, the tongue is furred at the sides, and red, or broAvn, or dry at the centre, and a sensation of heat at the epigastrium is often complained of. The patient becomes very uneasy and restless, and Avhilst keeping the trunk steady, tosses tlie arms and hands incessantly outside the bedclothes. The hands and feet are hot and burning, so that the patient begs to have them frequently moistened, and Avill hold in each hand a cold, damp cloth, Avhich lie often desires to have Avetted. The countenance soon becomes expressive of pain and anxiety; the features look sunken, pinched, and Avithered; dark areolaj surround the oi’lhts, and there is extreme prostration of strength, though the intellect remains clear, and delirium is rare. Occasionally, more es])ecially if the intensity of the intlainmation spends itself in the neighborhood of the liver and bile-ap- paratus, jaundice occurs. In exceptional instances, a considerable amount of ascites exists, and fluctuation is present. Rarely, delirium is a prominent and early symptom. High fever, the passage of blootly stools oi- blood- stained vomit, incessant hiccough, diarrhoea, albuminuria, and very urgent dyspnoea from extreme tympanites, are also occasionally Avitnessed. iJkujnosis.—This is usually easy, but some painful conditions of the abdominal Avail folloAving an injury may lie mistaken for traumatic perito- nitis. Thus cutaneous hypenusthesia, localized inflammation, or even rheu- matic atfections of the muscular and ai>oneurotic structures of tlie parietes have led to error, especially Avlien occurring in nervous or hysterical sub- jects, anil Avhen abdominal distension, sickness, and constipation have been associated Avith the local symptoms. With jiroper care, lioAvever, such con- ditions Avill readily be distinguislied from peritonitis. Localized inflamma- tion, commencing as the result of an injury in the areolar tissue of the pelvis or loins, or around the kidney, crecum, or bladder, may lead to the suspicion of peritonitis; but such diseases are prone to involve the peritoneum, and it cannot be positively asserted, under the circumstances, that this membrane is not inflamed; and the peritoiutis once started tends rapidly to become general. Cramp in the stomach, intestinal colic, and other jiainful abdominal atfections, if accompanied by vomiting, rapid [lulse, and a tejidency to collajise.