27 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 7 Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 58(1. Where there has been a loss of bone, the gap is usually bridged across only by a dense membrane, into which, however, ossification may sometimes extend for some little distance.^ II. Fractures of the Base of the Skull.—Basal fractures may result from either direct or indirect force. Among forms of direct violence may be enumerated (1) thrust wounds, by walking-canes, sticks, swords, bayonets, etc., which penetrate the skull through the roof of the orbit or of the nose; (2) a blow upon the chin, which may actually drive one condyle of the jaw through the glenoid fossa; (3) a blow upon the nose, which, fracturing the bones of that part, may likewise shatter the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, as is shown in two specimens in the IMiitter Museum. Thrust wounds most commonly ini[)licate the thin walls of the orbit, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the fragile, shell-like body of the s})henoid, and more rarely the occipital bone. Such accidents can readily occur in tlie roof of the orbit, through which the In-ain may receive fatal and unsuspected injury, since the vulnerating body may have passed through the retro-tarsal fold of the conjunctiva," producing mei-ely an ecchymotic patch on that membrane; or there may be so small a skin Avound tliat, seeing the vulne- rating body to be large, the surgeon may think that not even a penetrating wound of the skin has taken place.^ In such cases there are probably no brain symptoms for several days, after which they develop sometimes cpiite suddenly, death resulting, perhaps, in a few hours; or the case may run a longer course.^ Murderous wounds, which leave no trace that can be detected except after most careful examination, may also be readily etiected by passing a small pointed instrument through the retro-tarsal conjunctival fold, and then pene- trating the delicate orbital roof and superjacent brain. This is especially easy in the case of children, but presents no great difficulty even in the adult. The medico-legal bearing of this fact is plain. Prognosis of Based Fractures from Direct Violence.—Death is the usual I’esult of these fractures, the autopsy lirst revealing the nature and full extent of the injury. More rarely recovery lias ensued, as in one case where the severe brain symptoms left no doubt of the nature of the injury, and in another® whei’e brain protrusion occurred.® Treatment.—The prospects arc very bad should any foreign body be left within the skull. An exceedingly instructive case related by Ilulke^ I shall here ipiote, as it indicates a somewhat important point in practice. A girl, aged six years, received a punctured wound of tlie orbit from falling upon a slate pencil wliicli she was holding in her hand. All portions, as was supposed, of tlie slate pencil were removed hy the house surgeon, and the child passed a comfortable night. The next afternoon, when Mr. Hulke first saw lier, he detected with the probe a portion of the pencil dee[) in the wound, enlarging which he exposed the fragment ’ Tliere is a specimen illustrating this in the New York Hospital Museum. (No. 24.) ^ A case of this nature has hoen reported hy Sir A. Cooper, where a pair of scissors penetrated the retro-tarsal fold, with no hrain-symptoms resulting for over four days. (Lectures, edited hy Tyrrell, Am. ed., p. 131. 1839.) See cases hy Sir P. Crampton and J. Payiiter, Dublin Quar- terly Journal of Medical Science. 18.51. • * Morgagni, De sed. e.t cans, morhorum, Epist. li. Sect. 58. ^ Paynter’s case, already cited. J. II. Jackson, in the Lancet for Feb. 2, 1884, reports a case of punctured wound of the orbit from a blunt piece of stick, which wounded the lateral ven- tricle. The stick passed between the inner canthus and the eyeball, leaving only a slight ecchymosis. There were no cerebral symptoms until the fourth day, when they were suddenly developed, death taking place in a few hours. ® Morgagni, op. cit., Epist. li. ® Lancet, vol. ii. p. 16. 1837-38.