836 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. Parasites Affecting the Mamma. Dr. Haussmann, of Berlin,^ lias given an important account of the parasites met witii in the breast. The only animal parasite the presence of which in the breast he has been able to authenticate, is the Echinococcus. From an examination of the reported cases, Dr. Haussmann is of opinion that the cyst caused by this parasite never involves the nipple or its immediate neighbor- hood, hut that it may occur in any other part of the gland. There may be a single c}’st, or a cyst containing from one to fonr or five others ; a multilocular hydatid cyst has never been reported as met with in these organs. Landau, of Breslau,^ records a case in which the cyst communicated through the ribs and intercostal muscles with the cavity of the chest or abdomen. The symptoms of this affection are a smooth and fluctuating swelling of slow growth, caus- ing usually no symptoms except a little pain in the axilla and arm of the affected side. This rare condition may simulate a simple serous cyst of the gland, bnt aspiration or tapping would reveal the characteristic fluid and contents, in the case of an hydatid cyst. Inflammation and suppuration in the tissues outside the cyst-wall may take place, and this may be followed by a bursting of the cj’st externally, escape of its contents, and a spontaneous and gradual cure of the disease. The treatment of this condition is to make a free incision into the cyst, and to introduce a drainage-tube and retain it for some time. Should this not cure, the cyst may be excised ; but from my experience of the treatment of hydatid cysts in other external parts of the body, I am disposed to think that the more simple treatment will usually suffice. Affections of the E'ifple. Inflammation may attack the nipples and surrounding skin, causing ex- coriation, ulceration, or fissure. This condition is most commonly met with in connection with pregnancy and lactation, but it may occur from an}" form of local irritation. It may give rise to much painful smarting and suffering, and in severe cases to general disturbance, and it is especially troublesome in the case of nursing women. The ulcers or fissures may be deep, and may destroy the skin so as to leave the nipple only attached to the breast by the lacteal ducts. Obstruction of these clucts may result, and may lead to the formation of abscesses. TreatmeM.—In cases of simple irritation and excoriation, the parts should be kept clean by carefnlly washing them with Avarm Avater and soap, and some astringent lotion should Ije applied. Cologne-AAuxter, spirit of Avine, and strong infusions of tea, catechu, or other astringents, are advised for this pur- pose. A mixture of gr. x of nitrate of lead to 3,) of glycerine has also been suggested. Blayfair advises etpial parts of sulphurous acid and glycerine of tannin, Avith tAvice the quantity of Avater ; and Leishman, an ointment consist- ing of gr. iij of tannic acid, 3«s of glycerine, and .sj of s})ermaceti ointment. AVhen tlie fissures are deep and painful, touching them Avith solid nitrate of silver, and leaving the resulting scab nninterfered Avith until it loosens and falls off, is one of the Ix^est methods of treatment. If suckling causes great suffering and interferes Avith the healing of the fissures, a zinc nipide-shield may be used, or suckling may be giA'en up altogether on the affected side. It is important to 1 Med. Times and Gazette, vol. ii. 1874. 2 Arcliiv fur Gynakologie, Bd. viii. 1875.