1165 UMBILICAL HERNIA. often consists only of the transformed cutaneous investment of the umbilical cord itselt. The umbilical hernice of adults, unless they are a continuation of the infantile, differ somewhat in their origin and anatomy. They sometimes pass through the true navel-aperture, Imt more frerpiently through an aperture close above, or below, or on one side of it. After some distension, the umbilical cicatrix becomes involved, and it and a part of the skin cover the tumor, which is not (piite in the centre, but usually below it. An examination of the anatomy of the front abdominal wall, will show that there are numerous small openings near the linea alba, through which pass small branches of the intercostal arteries and nerves. Usually these openings (some of ivliich aie also found in the sheaths of the recti proper) are filled up with small nodules of con- nective or adipose tissue. When the person gets corpulent, these nodules increase in size, while tlie openings in the fibrous network become larger by stretching, and then, if the individual gets thinner, from any cause, the open- ings become more patulous, and are imperfectly tilled bj' adipose processes from the sub-peritoneal fat joining on to the suhcutaneous adipose structures. Under a violent expiratory exertion—such as H cough, or straining or forcing effort—a portion of peritoneum is driven into the opening, and a small sac is formed. These sacs are not uncommonly found in subjects in tlie dissect- ing room before a regular hernia has been the result. They may also he seen near the inguinal region, and in several cases a rupture has been found to pass into the inguinal canal, simulating an oblique inguinal hernia, hut not covered liy the infundihuliform or cremasteric fascia. They may occur at various parts of the abdomen, and form ultimately true ventral herniie. Umbilical hernia in the adult has a thin and closely adljerent sac, some- times so attenuated by distension as not to he recognizable by the surgeon, who may in operating come suddenly upon the contents df the rupture. The contents of an umbilical hernia in adnlts are almost always omentum, usually loaded with fat, and often thickened and har<lened by intlammatory effusion from external pressure, to Avhich its situation exposes it in an unusual degree. In children, umbilical hernia usually contains small intestine, with a thin covering of omentum, or entirely without it. In adults, the colon is often contained in the sac; sometimes in its whole diameter, sometimes one of its cells pinched up into a pouch. In rarer and larger cases a part of tlie stomach, duodenum, liver, gall-bladder, csecum, sigmoid Hexure—or even the uterus, ovaries, or bladder—may lie found in the sac. The proximity of the hernia to the stomach, and its hold of the omentum high up, usually causes a great amount of dragging pain, nausea, and sickness, ivhile its implication of the colon causes frequent constipation, Hatuleuce, colic, and distress. Sometimes a double opeuiug is found in the interior of the hernia, cither with two distinct sacs, or with two necks to the same sac. The latter arrange- ment often results from the remains of the urachus and hy})Ogastric arteries at the upper part of the superior false ligament of the bladder, traversing the interior of the sac to the navel-cicatrix, wdth adhesions to the neck and with a pouch on each side, one of wliich may contain omentum, and the other large or small intestine. The suspensory ligainent of tlie liver has been seen to form a similar division of the sac. The point of strangulation in an adult umbilical hernia is most frequently at the lower ])art of the neck of the sac, where the action of gravity, the dragging Aveiglit of the contents and the super-incumbent fat, together Avith the pressuie and Aveight of tlie dress or of an abdominal belt, combine to press doAvmvards upon the shar|i edge of tlie abdominal opening. It is here that adhesions and ulceration of the hoAvel are most frequently found, and here the surgeon must search for the coustnetion in cases of strangulation. The coverings of the lieniia consist chiefly of the