INJURIES OF THE HEAD, 6 of hair, and fixing them with collodion. Owing to the rapid growth of hair, it is diflieult to make adhesive plaster hold for any length of time, while the flowing blood interferes with its proper application at the primary dressing. I prefer, therefore, where sutures are deemed unadvisable, to fix one end of a strip of fine gauze or moscpiito-netting with collodion on one side of the cut, when the wound can be accurately coaptated, and held so by painting the other end of the gauze-strip with more collodion, the drying and consequent fixation of the dressing being hastened by blowing with the breath. In this way the most extensive wounds can be as accuratel}^ approximated as by means of sutures, and almost as rapidly. With such a dressing at our disposal, sutures are rarely demanded. I am not opposed to their use when deemed necessary—at points of great traction, or in drunken or unrnly patients—but anything like an attempt to closely sew np a lacerated scalp wound is to be deprecated, owing to the great ease with which the sub- aponeurotic fascia permits tlie ditfusion of inflammatory products. Although as a rule I believe sutures to be unnccessaiy, with the above restrictions I should advisetheir use, provided that the anatomical peculiarities of the parts be borne in mind, and the sutures cut on the first s}unptoms of inflammatory swelling. Whatever the means used in closing the wound, care should be exercised lest the edges become inverted, as the hairs in their growth will in- terfere with healing. Contact of the flap with the deeper parts being secured by proper compresses, which also tend to prevent any collection of inflamma- tory products, a few folds of lint wet with a bichloride-of-mercury solution, and covered with waxed paper or oiled silk, should be laid over the line of the wound, and the whole firmly bandaged in placc.^ Where any special dressing is not available, I have seen the best results from coaptating the wound by bandaging with dry compresses. Whatever the dressing, I would advise inspection of the wound at the end of forty-eight hours, when it can be either redressed, or left undisturbed, according to circumstances. Quiet, and attention to the state of the bowels, should be enjoined in view of possible cerebral complications. When su[)puration takes place, the pus, if situated in the superficial fascia, forms circumscribed collections, which heal kindly after evacuation; but when the abscess is subaponeurotic, it will be diftused, and must then be freely opened at the most dependent jjoints to insure free drainage. Should this condition escape early recognition, the scalp may slough,or, more probably, the aponeui’osis with its subjacent tissue, when the pericranium is almost certain to be more or less destroyed, imperilling the vitality of the outer table of the skull. Incisions, when made, should run parallel to the course of the occipito-frontal fibres. Complications of Scalp Wounds.—Erysipelas.—This affection has been already treated of in so exhaustive a manner, in Vol. I. of this work, as to render superfluous anything further than the indication of those peculiarities, due to the tissues in which it arises, which the disease presents, and the modi- fications in treatment which the concomitant injuries demand. It certainly is most apt to occur in drinkers, or in those with broken-down constitutions. The most common form is the cutaneous, which is rarely grave, and which may be ushered in by symptoms that are somewhat puzzling. Thus, I have lately had a caseof trephining, in which violent headache, coated tongue, vomit- ing, steadily rising temperature, and the presence of a few enlarged and tender lymphatic glands, preceded, by more than forty-eight hours, a marked • The bichloride gauze, when at hand, may be substituted; or carbolized gauze, or carbolized solution.