DISEASES OF THE SCALP. 131 to the tension of the scalp ; excision may then be practised, Ideeding during the operation being checked by a ring of lead, or by strips of the same metal, pressed lirmly against the scalp. The subcntaneons ligature appears to be peculiarly unsuited to the scalp. iSra?\d larger than can be treated by ligature may be excised, if all other means have failed, or treated Avith puncture by the actual cautery. By the latter method a fine thermo-cautery point is thrust in various directions into the substance of the mevus through the same skin puncture. Little reaction, as a rule, folloAvs, but the mass begins to shrink. The treatment may require to be repeated live or six times in a large mass. I have found it most successful iu very large naevi. Much has been said as to tlie ti-eatment of npevi over the anterior fontanelle. All ojAerative measures applied to such n?evi, while the fontanelle is still open, are attended Avitli much risk, and should never be undertaken, unless under urgent rea- sons, until the opening has closed.* The ntevus, especially if deeply seated, will often much diminish in size Avhen such closure has taken place. MichaiuB records a case of nfevus of the scalp that communicated by small veins with the superior longitudinal sinus. A communication of a like character probably occurs more frequeutl}^ tlian is at present siqtposed, and may account for some of tlie rapid deaths witli 1 train symptoms tliat have followed in a few instances the treatment of even the most simple ninvi in this situation. Cirsoid Aneurism. — Aneurism hy Anastomosis; Racemose Aneurism. ; Arterial Varix.—These terms are applied to tumors made up of the dilated and varicose arteries of a given area, and their smaller Itranches. When the disease affects the larger arterial trunks, the name cirsoid aneurism is used, and when it extends into the capillary networks, it is known as racemose or anastomotic aneurism; the term arterial varix has been limited by some authors to tlie affection as it involves single large arteries. This disease is almost limited to tlie head, being very rare elsewhere. It occurs usually in connection with the temporal, jiosterior auricular, and occipital arteries. As it increases, it may extend either towards the ea})il- laries or towards the main trunk, and, in the latter case, may involve even the common carotid. It may extend beyond the middle line, and involve the other side of the head. The skin over the mass is usually thin and Avrinkled, but may be tliickeneil. The subjacent bone is often grooved by the dilated vessels, and VerneuiL gives a case in Avhich the bone Avas actually perforated. Tliese tumors are sometimes due to injury, liut more commonly arise from the dilatation of the afferent arteries of a simple angeioma, Avhich latter groAvtJi can often be detected in the centre of the arterial SAvelling. They occur most usually in young adults. Progress.—These groAvths are apt to increase to some extent, and may attain enormous size. They may, lioAveA^cr, at any time become stationary, or even undergo s})Ontaneous cure, an event that has in most cases been sub- sequent to a fever. The mass may ulcerate, oi’ the skin become so thinned that rupture occurs, folloAvcd by fatal hemorrhage. The symptoms of these tumors have been fully described elseAvhere,^ and it is here only needful to allude to their loading features: an irregular, varicose mass Avith visibly dilated arteries about its periphery, pulsation, a blowing bruit, a fine tbrill felt by tlie lingers, reilucibility of the mass on pressure, and an altei’ed state of the integument, which is usually found thinned and discolored. ' Mr. EricLsen expresses an opposite opinion ; Science and Art of Surgery, vol. i. p. 717. 1872. 2 L’Union M6dicale, p. 254. 1859. ® Varices artSrielles du Cuir chevelu. Tliese. ' See Vol. III., pages 354 et seq.