575 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE NECK. not opened may leave an ugly mark. Sebaceous cysts are also met with in tliis region, and may attain so considerable a size as to project in the floor of the mouth, as well as below the jaw. Hydatid cysts have also occasionally been seen here. Ranula, when large, may cause considerable bulging in the supradiyoid region. It is not always easy to recognize small fluid collections in this part of the neck, from the softness and pliancy of the structures. By pressing the Anger into the floor of the mouth, close behind the symphysis, the parts will be steadied and the presence of the fluid more easily distin- guished. The Ityoid bone, though buried in the tissues, is easily recognized by its resistance and horse-shoe shape. From its floating so much it is displaced Avith facility. The cornua, passing outwards and liackwards, servo as important guides to the surgeon in seeking for the lingual arteries. Tlie submaxillar!/ and sublingual glands, Avith the surrounding lymphatic glands, the lingual, sublingual, facial, and submental bloodvessels, together Avith the lingual, hypoglossal, and other nerves, lie in the supra-hyoid region. The hgo-thyroid meanbrane, Avith the small superior laryngeal artery (a branch of the superior thyroid, of the external carotid) and nerve upon it, comes next. A Avound in this region'might implicate the epiglottis. The upper part of the larynx may be reached by an operation, suggested by Vidal and Malgaigne, for gaining access to abscesses in the glosso-epiglottidean folds, or to polypi or foreign bodies not otbenvise accessible. A bursa, lies on the anterior surface of the thyro-hyoid membi’ane, and passes under the hyoid bone. If this bursa enlarges, it Avill give rise to a small, tense, fluctuating and chronic tumor, Avhich may finally end in a fistula. The ‘■‘■pomum Adarni,'” beloAV this, Avith its notch at the point of union of its Avings, is a Avell-knoAvn landmark on the front of the neck. The projection of this cartilage ATiries in diflerent persons, and is more pro- nounced in males than in females. By keeping the notch in line Avitli the chin and the supra-sternal holloAV, the middle line of the neck is easily re- tained. The thyroid cartilage ossifies comparatively early in some persons. It can be divided with safety in the middle line, for the removal of foreign bodies, groAvths, etc., but of course any deviation from tbe central line Avill cause risk to the vocal cords. A small, serous, subcutaneous bursa lies in front of the thyroid cartilage. BeloAv the thyroid cartilage comes the erieo-thyroid membrane. It is slightly depressed, and has a minute artery distributed to it. In this mem- brane the operation of laryngotomy is performed. Next comes the ring-like cricoid cartilage, Avhich is readily distinguished by its greater firmness and resistance. It corresponds in level to the sixth cervical vertelira, and is of great interest to the surgeon in connection Avith tracheotomjg laryngo-trache- otomy, ligature of the common carotid, msophagotomy, operations on the thyroid body, etc. At the level of this cartilage also, tlie pharynx becomes oesopliagus, and is at the })oint of junction so narroAv as to be liable to arrest the passage of foreign bodies and instruments. The carotid tubercle on the transverse process of the sixtli cervical A-ertebra, against Avhich the carotid artery can be compressed, is found to the side of and beloAV the cricoid carti- lage. After the cricoid, comes the trachea, Avith the isthmus of the thyroid, gland covering the second, third, and fourth of its rings. Tlie breadth of this connecting bridge varies very much in different cases, being usually broader and more develojAed in females. In tbin persons, the upper rings of tlie trachea can be traced Avhen the finger is pressed over them. The thyroid lobes, lying u}ion either side, are not easily distinguished unless enlarged. They rise and fall Avith the Avindpipe, and, Avhen increased in size, the superior thyroid arteries can be felt pulsating on their upper and anterior surfaces.