DISEASES OF THE SCALP. 125 presence will not at all influence the reduction of the blood tumor. These collections may he distinguished from collections of pus, which, being situated both within and without the cranium, communicate through a hole iu the bone, by the absence of any previous inflammation or evidence of bone- disease. jSTo treatment is needed. All that is rerpiired is that the tumor shall be protected by a well-fltting plate of gutta-percha or metal. Perhaps pressure may be tried. Any operative procedure would be almost unjustifiable, con- sidering the immediate connection of the tumor with the interior of the cranium. Cysts of the Scalp.—The true cysts of the scalp include common selia- ceous cysts, congenital or dermoid cysts, and serous cysts. With the common sebaceous cysts will also be considered, for convenience follicular ulcers of the scalps and horns. I. The Common Sebaceous or Follicular Cyst.—Anatomy.—These cysts form the very commonest tumors of the scalp, and ax’e popularly known as “ wens.” As regards their nature they may Ixe classed as retention-cysts, being due, for the most part at least, to an accmnulation of secretion in the solxa- ceous follicles of the skin. A large numlxer of them show on their surface a black spot Avhich represents the still patent orifice of the greatly distended follicle. Some, however, show no such orifice, and these have been considered to be derived from abortive follicles—from follicles imperfectly developed, and that probably have never contained a hair, and have never opened upon the skin. The cyst wall is generally distinct and well formed; at first thin and pliant, it may become in time tliicker and more firm. It has a distinct lining of squamous epithelium, and it is important to note that between this lining epithelium and the epithelial contents there is no line of distinct de- marcation.^ The contents of the cysts vary. In what may bo regarded as their most typical state, they consist of layers of soft, white, epidermic scales, that show evidence of softening about the centre of the mass. Such is the appearance in young cysts, but in long-standing tumors the nature of the contents varies considerably. They may be wholly pultaceous, or the centre may be pultaceous while the eixidermic matter at the periphery has from pressure become so hard as to appear like a distinct, laminated, horny layer. In this way are formed what are incorrectly known as “ thick-walled cysts:” the thickness of the Avail is due to no changes iu the thin wall or capsule, but simply to lamination of the contents. Portions of the horny matter which form the so-called “walls” of these cysts may be detached and lie loose among the softer contents, and such hard masses may sometimes be distinctly felt through the integument.'^ At other times the contents may be almost or quite fluid, and may even, according to Sir Prescott Ilewett, become trans- parent. Or they may lie discolored by admixture with blood, or may contain much cholesterin (cholesteatoma). Lastly, the contents may become firm and putty-like, or cretaceous, and according to Ileineke^ a peculiar ossifica- tion of the whole mass may be mot Avith. This last observer says that calcification is not uncommon in the smaller cysts. These tumors are situated primarily in the subdermic tissues betAA’een the skin and the aponeurosis of the scalp muscle, and have at first but a loose * Cornil et Ranvier, Manuel rUHistologie Patliologique, 2e eil., tome i. p. 350. 1881. * Ilewett, Sebaceous Tumors of tlie Cranial Region. St. George’s Hosp. Reports, vol. iv. p. 96. 1869. ® Loc. cit., S. 37. He believes the ossification to take place tlirougli a connective-tissue forma- tion that appears among the epithelium.