221 DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. as the suppuration is fairly establishetl, a weak solution of boracic acid, or of nitrate of silver, the same as in infants, should he freely dropped into the eyes every hour or oftener. If there is great phlegmonous swelling of the lids, chemosis, and dangerous pressure around the cornea, the external com- missure of the lids may be freely divided, and light scarifications of the con- junctiva resorted to. Leeches to the temple or side of the nose may be ordered, but their efiect is too slow to be greatly relied upon. The free incision of the commissure takes the blood more quickly, and directly relieves the pressure of the lids on the chemosed eyeball. A free purgative in the be- ginning, some restriction of diet, and opiates to relieve pain and promote sleeji, are usually rerpiired. In the course of a few days, when the swollen lids and eyes are not so veiy tender to pressure, and the lids can be fully everted with- out much sufiering, especially if tlie su})puration be profuse, the lids should be turned and pencilled once a day, as in infants. But while in the latter this may safely be done from the start, in adults we must wait a few days foi‘ the above changes to take place ; then this more heroic local treatment is safer, rapidly controlling the disease, and abridging the period of danger. Conjunctivitis Granulosa ; Granular Lids ; Trachoma.—Any one of the forms of conjunctivitis which have been described above, becoming chronic, is liable to lead to anatomical lesions of the conjunctiva, Avhich, in general terms, are called granulations. In isolated cases, but chiefly in epidemics of conjunctivitis, these exuberant products are rapidly developed Avith very acute manifestations. The acute stage subsiding after a few tveeks, the case runs on in a subacute and persistent form, and the granulations become the chief cause of danger, as tvell as the endless aim of treatment. An attempt has been made by Saemisch and others to establish an anatomical classiflca- tion—conjunctivitis folUculosa and conjunctivitis granulosa—the former disap- pearing completely under mild, careful treatment, leaving no cicatricial lesion behind, and the latter always follotved by more or less alteration in the ana- tomical texture of the conjunctiva. While it is true of rare forms of so- called follicular conjunctivitis, that they recover Avith perfect “•restitutio in integrum,” the tAvo A-arieties are nearly always mixed, and the prognosis, therefore, is usually not so favorable. The distinction is further based upon ditterences in the distribution of the inflammatory inflltrations, the follicular being grouped in closed capsules under the epithelium, or else tlie lymphoid elements forming in groups Avithont a limiting mendu’ane. In the other, the true granulation, the elementary products arc more diflitsed, and jiervade the deeper textures. Microscopical anatomy may finally, Avith further iiiA^esti- gation, become a basis of classilication and an aid in treatment, but practi- cally I agree Avith Goldzieher that “conjunctivitis granulosa” may beheld to include all varieties, as they require the same treatment. In AueAV of the fact that they are all contagious, very tedious in duration, and prone to frequent acute relapses, that they usually lead to permanent cicatricial changes in the conjunctiva and lids, and that they seem to yield best to the same course of treatment, I shall consider them all together. Granular eyelids are the uniform result of conjunctivitis of some kind, either acute or chronic. Hence their etiology is that of conjunctivitis. There does not seem to be any specific granular virus, conveyed by contagious secre- tions, producing ahvays the same condition, and spreading in no other Avay. Atmospheric changes, ami anything that gives rise to colds, may be folloAved by conjunctivitis and gramdatious. Morbid secretions, either from diseased eyes or from the urethra, are the most frequent means of propagation, their greater or less jmruleuce giving them more or less virulence. Granular eyelids are the scourge of some countries, Avhile in others they