587 ABSCESSES OF THE NECK. even fatal hemorrhage ; difthse inflammation, passing far and wide even to the chest and axilhe ; thrombi in the great vessels, with embarrassment of the circu- lation in the brain and lungs ; and, above all, blood-poisoning.^ Cervical abscesses, if placed near the great vessels, may receive a trans- mitted pulsation which will cause the surgeon to hesitate as to their diagno- sis from aneurism, especially as they cannot always be raised up or pushed aside so as to be freed from the influence of the vessel. The distinction is to be made by observing the difference in clinical history of the two cases, and the ages at which they occur ; the pulsation is not expansive, nor as distinct as in aneurism, and the swelling is less defined in its outline, and more superficial and diffused. In abscess, too, there will be signs of previous inflammation, probably involvement of several glands, and of the skin, and the existence of fluctuation. If an aneurism have burst into an abscess, then the difficulty of recognizing the true condition of affairs will be greatly increased. Post-pharyngeal abscess will demand consideration in the article on aflec- tions of the throat. Suppuration rarely occurs in the thyroid body, but, when it does, it mani- fests itself by the usual signs of local inflammation, accompanied by much constitutional disturbance. It is attended by much swelling and oedema of the neck, and the pressure-effects are considerable. The thyroid may even undergo sphacelation and be destroyed, and that without necessarily pro- ducing fatal results, nor even much inconvenience from its loss. Pus placed deeply in the neck may be very difficult to distinguish clearly. Fluctuation may not be recognizable, from the slight resistance of the sur- rounding parts, and from the firm way in which the pus is bound down. Elasticity alone may be present, but the oedema, diffuse redness, and pain, form important guides to diagnosis, unless the abscess be of small size and very deeply placed, when neither redness of the surface nor swelling may be marked. Chronic abscesses of the neck ai’e almost ahvays of constitutional origin, or the result of degeneration of the glands, or of disease of some of the bones or cartilages. Sometimes these pus-collections are “ residual,” or the result of former inflammatory action which has left its products behind to remain quiescent for a time, and to recover their activity when the general health has from any cause become deteriorated. These abscesses are of very slow progress, and are important chiefly from the evidence which their appear- ance gives of weak, local and general conditions. They are often attended by very little disturbance. They may burst by several small openings which become either troublesome sinuses, or tbe starting points of idcei’ation which spreads and is difficult to repair. From the absence of much pain, and from the slow formation and advance of these pus-collections, they might be mistaken for cysts or other tumors; but a regard to the diathesis of the patient, the clinical history of the affection, and the probability of other abscesses of a similar nature having existed, together with a careful examination of the local condition, will indicate their character. Unhealthy children who have been exposed to bad hygienic sui-roundings are the most common subjects of these abscesses. Treatment.—It will of course be most important to prevent the formation of pus, by removing, if possible, the irritation or cause, local or constitutional, upon which it depends, and by the use of such local anti})hlogistics as may he retpiired. In some cases counter-irritants, in the form of embrocations con- taining iodine, or even of blisters used for short periods, as recommended by 1 Gross, Amer. .Jour. Med. Sci. 1871.