MALFORMATIONS OF THE SKULL. 133 Malformations of the Skull. These malformations ai’e numerous, varied, and for the most part congeni- tal. The majority of them are of no interest to the practical surgeon, and many, as, for instance, anencephaly, exencephaly, etc., are incompatible with existence. Cephalocele will be treated of hereafter. Among the acquired deformities, it is only necessary to allude to those purposely produced by cer- tain nations^ (such as the Caribs) by pressure upon the skull in infancy; to the “ diamond-shaped head”^ produced by compression at birfli; and to the “ obliquite du crane par propulsion unilaterale’’^ induced by allowing very young infants to lie always upon the same side of the liody. These are at least of some slight interest in being not quite unpreventahle. Of much more interest, however, are certain congenital holes and ^fissures in the skull that appear to be of no infrequent occurrence, and to persist often througliout the life of the individual. They are all due to imperfect developments.^ The occipital bone may present persistent fissures, the remains of those that occur in the developing bone ; or a larger or smaller part of the superior angle may exist as a separate lione, the “ os epactale,” whose line of union with the main bone may he mistaken for a fracture. The parietal hone is frequently tlie seat of certain holes that may persist during life. These parietal holes are generally two in number, and are symmetrically disposed, one on either bone, at or about its most prominent point. Their usual diameter is from one- third to one millimetre. They may, however, be much larger,® and in the Musee du Val-de-grace, there is a skull with parietal holes that measure three centimetres. These holes may he mistaken for fractures, and are apt to seriously complicate diagnosis when a superficial growth happens to be located over one of them. ]\Ir. Thomas Smith® records a case in a child aged four years, in whose skull were found tlie following congenital holes: one on the right side of the occipital bone, three inches by two inches, and one on either parietal, measuring respectively two indies by two inches, and two inches by one inch. Over one of these lioles an abscess had formed, which pulsated synchronously with the pulse. Meningocele ; Encepiialocele ; IIydrencepiialocele.—These terms are applied to certain tumors that consist essentially of a protrusion of some part of the cranial contents through an aperture in the skull. They are congen- ital, and are observed either at or soon after birth. Reference will be made hereafter to certain rare tumors known as acquired cephaloceles. These must be kept distinct from those now under consideration. The contents of these tumors vary, and it is according to the nature of these contents that they are classified and named. When tlie tumor contains a protrusion of the meninges only, the term meningocele is used ; when a protrusion of brain, the term encephxdocele; and when the mass is formed by a portion of brain, greatly distended witli fluid from a dropsical ventricle, it receives the name of hyd;r encephxdocele. ' For an account of such like deformities, see M. Topinard’s “ Anthropology.” 2 Dr. Ogier Ward, Path. Trans. London, vol. iii. p. 225. ^ M. Gueniot, Bull, de la Soo. de Chir., tome x. p. 383. 1866. ■* An excellent account of these rnal-developments is given by M. S. Pozzi, Art. Crane (Deve- loppement). Diet. Encyl. des Sc. Med., xi- -167. 1879. ^ See Dexjressions in the Parietal Bones, by Professor Humxdiry, Journ. Anat. and Phys., vol. vii. p. 136. 1874. 5 flath. Soc. Trans. London, vol. xvi. p. 224. For account of Aplasia Crauii (imperfect ossifi- cation of skull), see, also, Heineke, loc. cit., S. 43.