1100 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. Opened, it may be either sutured or left without stitches, as the surfaces will fall together artd quickly adhere. In Mr. Couper’s case of scrofulous pye- litis, the hole in the peritoneum was sutured, but before this was done, pus fi'om the kidney had contaminated the inner surface of the peritoneum ; yet the patient rapidly recovered, and the operation, which lasted two and a half hours, was throughout all but bloodless. Abdominal nephrectomy should be performed in cases unsuited to the lumbar method. These have been already specitied. The best incision is that which many of the old surgeons employed in all abdominal sections, and Avhich Langenbuch, of Berlin, has recommended and practised in at least two suc- cessful cases of nephrectomy,^ namely, along the outer border of the rectus abdominis muscle on the side of the kidney to be removed. The middle point of the incision will probably correspond to the umbilicus, but this must entirely depend upon the size and outline of the tumor. All bleeding, which is sometimes considerable in this incision, being stojiped, and the peritoneal cavity opened, the state of the opj)osite kidney can be ascertained, if need be, by digital examination. The intestines should be kept aside, from ofl‘ tbe surface of the kidney to be removed, by means of a large, flat sponge introduced into the alxlomen. The outer layer of the meso- colon should next be opened sufficiently to allow of the introduction of two or three fingers, behind the peritoneum, and into the fat in front of the kidney; and the fingers should then gently teaze their way towards the renal vessels, around which ligatures should be secured. If the vessels are tied separately, care should be taken to tie the artery before the vein. The ureter should then be seized by two pairs of ovariotomy foi’ceps, and divided between them. Langenbuch’s object in selecting tins incision was to divide the outer layer of the meso-colon, and so avoid the risk of hemorrhage; this is more particularly necessary on the right side, since the inner layer of the meso-colon covers the vessels passing to the ascending colon. The enucleation of the tumor should next be proceeded with ; and lastly, tlie vessels should be divided outside the ligatures, and the mass removed from the body. The ureter should be tied with ligature silk like tbe vessels; or its upper end may be turned out (as I suggested at a meeting of the London JNIedi- cal Society, in November, 1882) through an opening specially made in tbe loin, and then stitched to the external wound. Mr. Barwell has also advo- cated this mode of treating the ureter ; but I am not aware that it has been carried into practice. The supposed advantage of bringing out the end of the ureter, is that it allows the escape of any pus or scrofulous material which it may contain, and that it permits the antiseptic irrigation of the canal. The advantage of this is doubtful, except, perhaps, in scrofulous pyonephrosis, whilst the plan of fixing the cut end of the ureter at the abdominal wound, seems to me to invite the future occurrence of intestinal obstrnction. Abdominal nephrectomy is completed like ovariotoni}’, and the subsequent treatment is the same. A median incision bas been several times enqiloyed, but is not as good as that described above. The dangers of the operation will appear from the following comparison of the causes of death after the lumbar and abdominal methods. From an examination of 42 fatal cases, out of 100 nephrectomies collected by Dr. Robert P. Harris,^! find that the following facts come out. The cases are arranged according to the nature of the operation :—• ' Transactions of the International Medical Congress. 1881. 2 Amer. Jour. Med. Sciences, July, 1882.