930 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. * Med.-Chir. Trails., vol. Ixv. odorless, neutral or slightly alkaline fluid, of sp. gr. 1008. After this time the flow ceased altogether. The author concluded that this fluid must he either urine from a punctured ureter, or cerebro-spinal fluid, and he strongly inclined to the \dew that it was not cerebro-spinal fluid. It is quite certain, however, from the composition of the fluid, that it was not ordinary urine, and was much more nearly like cerebro-spinal fluid; and as i\Ir. Holmes has, in a subsequent communication,^ come to the conclusion that this case was really one of wound of the theca vertehralis, and not of the ureter, I need do no more than say that he has at least shown, by experiment on the dead subject, that it is possilfle to wound either the ureter or the theca vertehralis by a stab in the back, at the position of the wound in this boy. There is anotlier way in which the ureter not only may be, but has been, wounded, and that is during the removal of ovarian and other abdominal tumors, as well as in the removal of the uterus. In the complete removal of the uterus the ureter stands in very real danger of being divided, especially if the operation is l)eing done for cancer of the cervix. It happened once to myself to divide the ureter on one side whilst removing the uterus for malig- nant disease; the cervix was so enlarged and inflltrated with cancer that it greatly exceeded the fundus in circumference, and it was quite impossible to excise the tissues clear of the disease without cuttiug out about half an inch of the right ureter, which was incorporated with the growth on the side of the cervix. The renal end of the divided ureter was turned into the vagina and retained there by a suture. Should the ureter he accidentally torn or cut across whilst removing an abdominal tumor, the renal end must be brought out through an opening made for this purpose in the loin, and fixed by a suture to the edge of the wound. It was after an accident of this sort that Simon, of Heidelberg, for the first time successfully removed a kidney in order to rid his patient of a urinary fistula. ^younds of the Supra-renal Capsule.—One case of gunshot wound of the left su}»ra-renal capsule is described in the Medical and Surgical History of fhe American War of fhe Rebellion. The shot liad traversed the left lung and the diaphragm, and had lodged in the supra-renal capsule, Avhere it was found imbedded after death. The man lived four weeks, and died of pyaemia. He suffered “ no haemoptysis, not much oppression of breathing, scarcely any hemorrhage, no disoi’der of the iiropoietic functions, and comparatively little shock at the outset—the reverse of what would be anticipated from Kblliker’s observation, that the supra-renal capsule is more highly supplied Avith nerves than any other glandular structure, and that the nervous branches are derived from the synqiathetic, pneumogastrie, and phrenic nerves.” There are no clinical records of any case of uncomplicated Avound of the supra-renal capsule; and Ave have no observations to shoAv hoAv far injury to these bodies Avould produce the synqfioms of Addison’s disease, or lead to the retention in the blood of some poisonous substance Avhich certain phy- siologists have imagined that it may be the function of these organs to remove. Penetrating Wounds ina^olving the Lymphatics and Bloodvessels.— M^ounds of the thoracic duct are very uncommon, and, Avith one or two excep- tions, probably unknown. Quincke’s case Avas verified by a post-niortem examination ; and Monro’s Avas also probably a genuine case of wounded