(551) SURGERY OF THE TEETH AND ADJACENT PARTS. BY NORMAN W. KINGSLEY, M.D.S., D.D.S., LATE PROFESSOK OF DENTAL ART AND MECHANISM IN THE NEW YORK COLLEGE OF DENTISTRI. Dentistry, although a specialty of surgery, has become almost a distinct science—distinct in the fact that it may be taught independently, and also in the fact that heretofore many of its most skilful practitioners have reached the highest excellence without any knowledge of general surgery. JSTever- theless, it is a department of the great science and art of medicine, and its highest possible attainments must have the more comprehensive science for their foundation. Its best results have been due so much to the dexterous manipulative ability of its practitioners, that tlie general surgeon has regarded it as a mechanical trade, and has ignored it in the aerpiirement of his education. The science of dentistry is medical, surgical, and prothetic. Dental thera- peutics includes a class of operations which are not taught in the medical schools, and are not practised in the offices of physicians and surgeons, but the successful performance of which recpiires special appliances, special sur- roundings, and mechanical and aesthetic cpialities of a high order; hence, by universal consent, these operations have been assigned to a special class of practitioners, who, liy limiting their range of action, have perfected them- selves in their chosen sphere of work. Every operation of oral surgery recpiires a delicacy and precision of touch which is rarely found in the prac- tice of general surgery. There is no preparatory training which the general surgeon could add to his other necessary accpiirements, to perfect himself in the dexterous use of instruments, at all comparable to a mastery of the operations in dentistry. Surgery of the Deciduous Teeth. Lancing the Gums.—Surgical interference is frecpiently demanded even before a tooth is erupted in infancy. Localized stomatitis may be relieved in many cases by Icmcimj the giuas^ an operation, however, which is not always indicated, and which has undoubtedly been many times resorted to injudi- ciously. If the tooth or teeth suspected to be the cause of local irritation, as well as of constitutional disturhance, are not far advanced ami ready to erupt, lancing the gums may do more harm than good, the incision perhaps closing with cicatricial tissue, which may cause subsecpiently greater disturbance than if no incision had been made. “ When tumefaction of the gum is dependent on tooth eruption, and the child is of healthy condition, a certain evidence is found in the glistening character of the swelling, the jiart imme- diately over the tooth or teeth looking stretclied and feverish. This tense look is nearly always present, and may, under all circumstances, lie esteemed