1002 INJURIES ANl) DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. following a blow.* It has been supposed that fracture of the skull, from falling on the head, is especially liable to be followed by abscess of the liver; but the fact that falls from a height are })rone to produce lacera- tion or contusion of this, the heaviest and largest of the abdominal viscera,^ probably furnishes an explanation of the association, if it exists. It is, how- ever, very doubtful if hepatic abscess and cranial fracture are frequently found in the same person.® Budd and Freijch may be referred to for instances of hepatic abscess following operations for hemorrhoids and fistula in ano, the cauterization of cancer of the rectum, and violence in reducing rectal prolapsus. I have twice seen a large abscess in the liver after lithotomy: both men were about the same age^—between sixty and sixty-five years— both came from the same village in Sussex, both died on the same (fifteenth) day after the oj)eration. In each there was a large, single abscess in the liver; and in one suppuration had extended along the pelvic cellular tissue and the inguinal canal, and had led to an abscess in the course of the spermatic cord which had been opened during life. Abscesses from such causes follow phlebitis, and are due to the transfer- ence of septic matters from the seat of operation to the liver, where they give I'ise, first of all, to embolic foci, the starting-points of the abscess. They are anatomically explained T)y the communication of the veins of the rectum, prostate gland, etc., with the portal system, through the inferior mesenteric vein. Hepatic abscesses occur after amputations and compound fractures of the lower limbs; any suppurating surface or cavity, more especially if in connection with diseased bone, and any ulcer, may give rise to them ; but in these cases the general circulation, not the portal system, is the channel of infection, and the liver is invaded through the hepatic artery. These are the typical pytemic abscesses, varying in size from that of a millet-seed to that of an orange, and they are often associated with similar abscesses in other visceTa. (See Plate II., Vol. I., page 210, supra.) The Aetley Museum contains a specimen of liver-abscess the size of a walnut, in which a discolored needle, swallowed two years before, was found. The abscess had drained awaj’ through an opening into the duodenum ; the man died of plithisis. Other foreign bodies, such as lumbrici, have been known to cause hepatic abscess. In the Isletle}^ collection is a liver showing numerous small abscesses surrounding lumbrici, which had perforated the organ in all directions, after reaching it by travelling along the biliary ducts from the intestine. Again, hydatid cysts and other new growths in the liver give I'ise to suppuration around them, and then to secondary hepatic abscesses within the area of the hepatic veins.^ Various ulcerated condi- tions of the stomach and bowels, but especially of the large bowel, are the cause of hepatic abscess; a case was in the Middlesex Ilospital, in 1877, under care of Hr. Cayley, in Avhich there were three abscesses, the size of oranges, or larger—two in the right and one in the left lobe of the liver. One of tliose in the right lobe communicated Avith a large sloughing cavity in the base of the right lung, and had been opened during life. There Avere several ulcers in the rectum, from one to two inches above the anus, Avhich Avere regarded as syphilitic. In another case, in the Middlesex Ilospital, in 1878, under care of Dr. Thompson, there Avere numerous ulcers in the colon, and sloughing of the appendix cieci. In each lobe of the liver there Avere several 1 Reynolds’s System of Medicine, vol. iii. p. 322. 2 Richerand, Nosograpliie Chirurgicale, t. ii. p. 244. 2 Jones and Sieveking, Manual of Pathological Anatomy, edited by Payne, p. G20 ; also Ziem- ssen’s Cycloppedia of Practical Medicine, vol. ix. p. 10(i. ■* Coriiil and Ranvier, Manual of Pathological Histology, page 901.