1071 DISTENSION OF THE GALL-BLADDER. Enlargement of the Gall-bladder from Cancerous Deposit in its Coats.—Cancer attacks the gall-bladder priniarilj, and spreads from it to the liver and peritoneum ; or it invades the gall-bladder secondarily to the liver, pancreas, or pylorus, or it may even be some other and more distant organ. In most cases in which the gall-bladder is affected with cancer, it will be found to contain calculi. The symptoms are severe shooting pains, with great tenderness on manipu- lation of a hard, and probably nodulated, tumor in the region of the gall- bladder. The tumor is usually fixed, and its growth rapid ; it is sometimes soft in the centre, or at some other part of its surface, and then an external fistulous opening may be expected. In other cases the fistulous communica- tion is with the colon, duodenum, or stomach, and then blood, and perhaps a biliary concretion, may be eiected through the mouth or voided by the rectum. The general impairment of health, and the emaciation and prostra- tion, are more marked and rapid than in any other form of enlargement of the gall-bladder. Soft cancer of the liver is very likely to be mistaken for distended gall-bladder. As a result of any form of mechanical obstruction to the flow of bile into the bowel, the biliary tubuli, as well as the bile-ducts, may be dilated; this is more especially likel}' to occur when the obstacle is in the hepatic duct, and when the gall-blaclder is, therefore, not a vent-space for the impacted fluid. The distension of the tubuli may be so extreme that a sensation of fluc- tuation is communicated to the fingers ap[)lied over the surface of the liver.’ Treatment of Distension of the Gall-bladder.—The diagnosis of the cause of the enlargement must be made, and the treatment directed accordingly. In cases of over-distension from bile, the medicinal and dietetic remedies in com- mon use for temporary obstruction must be employed, and will generally he followed by relief. In cancer, secondary to cancer of some other organ, the I’elief of symptoms as they arise is all that can lie hoped for; but if the dis- ease is primai’ily of the gall-bladder, the extirpation of the sac by abdominal section should be attempted. In cases of distension with pus and calculi, and in those instances of accumulation of bile or mucus in which other remedies have failed, operative measures will be required. Whilst it must be borne in mind, on the one hand, that in distension with- out obstruction, the tumor may, at any moment, s[)ontaneously subside; and that where permanent obstruction does exist,, the bile or mucus may be- come absorbed, and the liver more or less destroyed or atropliieil—in which case, either no necessity would exist for, or no permanent good would result from, the evacuation by puncture or incision—still, on the other hand, there is danger in all cases in which the tumor is rapidly increasing, that its thin walls may give way towards the peritoneum; or in cases of suppuration that the constitution may be worn out byliectic ; or in cases of distension by biliary concretions, that death may he caused by the irritation, gastric disturbance, and emaciation, to which they give rise. M. Petit considered, as have many others, that there ought to be adhesions between the sac and the parietal peri- toneum befdrethe gall-bladder could be successfully })unctured, and suggested the following as indications of such adhesions having been formed: (1) The impossibility of making the tumor change its position; (2) Qildema and red- ness of the integuments over the tumor; (3) Frequent recurrence of local inflammation. It is, however, very difiicult to be quite sure of these adhe- ' Dr. Wni. Thomson, op. cit., p. 73.