704 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. pericliondritis, and even in traumatic cases, it is almost always nnfavorable in deutero})atlnc or secondary cases. Few j)atients recover, and many that survive, sutler with a permanent stricture. Itefects in the cartilage are some- times repaired by connective tissue. Treatment.—In primary perichondritis,antiphlogistic treatment is indicated; cold should be applied externally, and by frequent deglutition of ice; and the same surgical supervision is required as in other forms of acute laryngitis. At a later period, should the clisease continue, the treatment would merge into that to be adopted in deuteropathic cases; namely, the administration of tonics and stimulants, with food by the rectum or stomach-tube, when required; precautionary tracheotomy, to avert sulfocative apnoea—tracheotomy is here preferable to laryngotomy ; early incision of abscesses ; and removal of loose fragments or cartilages. The treatment for strictures, in cases that survive, has been indicated at page 686. Croup and Diphtheria. From a surgical point of view, the main interest in croup and diphtheria centres in the question of tracheotomy, which may be discussed independently of any consideration as to the identity of the atfections. The first success- ful tracheotomies in modern times, for crouj:) or diphtheria, seem to have been performed shortly before 1730, one of them by Dr. George Martine, who describes^ a case of croup which, from the healthy appearances of all parts in view, he inferred to be “ an angina of the most malignant type {Angina sine tiimore, of Hippocrates),” and mentions earlier successful opera- tions by Mr. Baxfer and Dr. Oliphant. Two objects are attainable by this operation: first, the removal of false membrane through the wound, and second, the establishment of a tract for respiration below the point of obstruc- tion. Should the obstruction be in the bronchi, but little benefit can be anticipated. The proper moment for surgical interference, a matter of serious import, has long been a subject of debate. Performed too early, tracheotomy may expose the patient to unnecessaiy peril; performed too late, it may be worse than useless. Yet it may be safely stated that there are no positive contra-indications to the procedure, save evidence of accumulations of fibrin in the cavities of the heart. Here death b}^ syncope is inevitable, and the knife can aftbrd no relief to the cardiac obstruction. Continuous and increasing dyspnoea of mechanical origin, at any stage of the disease, which resists the influence of less radical measures, is indicative of obstruction to respiration, sufficient to justify the operation. Little is to be gained by waiting, and much may be sacrificed. Two sets of symptoms occur, dependent upon the location of the obstruc- tion. In one, the dyspnoea is continuous and progressive, but there are no violent struggles for breath; air reaches the lungs, though in restricted areas. There is no inspiratory depression of the soft tissues above the sternum, and but little, if any, below the diaphragm. The respirations are frequent and shallow ; the pulse is small and frequent; the skin is livid, cold, and perspiring; the face is swollen; the eyes are listless and their piqiils dilated ; the finger tips are blue at the nails ; the mucous membrane within the mouth is pale; sensation is dulled. False membrane occupies the bron- chial tract, plugging some passages and obstructing others, so that air 1 PhilosoiHiical Transactions, vol. vii. No. 416, p. 448. 1719-1733; cited in a private letter from Dr. John R. Quinan, Baltimore, Nov. 23, 1883. See also Quiuan, Maryland Medical Jour- nal, Dec. 1, 1883, p. 512.