INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 4 Vogel, not being found oftener than once or twice in a thousand births. They are more common after first lal)ors, and, according to Bouchard, more common in hoys than in girls, in the proportion of 34 to 9.* Commonly situated over one or other parietal bone, they are not infrequently multiple. They are usuall}^ small, being seldom larger than a walnut. A distinguishing peculiarity is the fact that, owing to the tinner adhesions of the periosteum at the sutures than elsewhere, these tumors are always confined to one hone, never passing a suture. Universally believed to he confined to the newly-born, as indicated h}’ the terms Cephalhrematoma neonatorum and Thrombus neonatorum, Gant reports the case of a child live years old, in whom a blood-tumor formed as the result of a blow over the right frontal eminence, and presented all the characteristics of a subpericranial effusion. The characteristic symptoms of the lesion are a}>t to be obscured by the mdematous swelling of the superjacent scalp, for the first few days after l)irth, but from the fourth to the sixth da}’, a soft, circumscribed, fluctuating swelling confined to one bone—usually the right parietal—can be readily detected, while the overlying scalp is not discolored. The centre is soft, while the circum- ference is hard, and has very much the feel of a margin of bone surrounding a depressed fracture. There are, however, no brain symiitoms when firm pressure is made at the bottom of the depression, and by the same manceuvre the finger can often detect the sound, undepressed bone. A^alleix has shown, fj-om his studies of the pathology of this affection, that the hard, crater-like margin is due to the formation of plastic and osseous matter between the pericranium and the bone, and that, uiion the side of the cavity, it has abrupt, almost perpendicular, walls, while the outer margin of the ring insensibly slopes down to the level of the surrounding bone. The peri- cranium is elevated by the blood-effusion from tbe subjacent bone, both struc- tures being covered with }>lastic matter, but otherwise healthy. Sir James Simpson has observed that at times the plastic effusion upon the under sur- face of the pericranium becomes ossified, when pressure upon the resultant thin plate of bone communicates a crackling sensation to tbe linger. The diagnosis of cephalluematomata, both general and ditterential, has been sufficiently indicated in the foregoing descriptions, except as to the necessity which may arise of distinguishing between 2jus and blood. In the former case, the collection would ajipear at a later jieriod than a blood-effusion, and only after jirecedent symptoms of inflammation. Treatment.—This should in no wise differ from fhat advised for contusions of the scalp. If, as occasionally is the case, the sw’elling persists, or even increases, asjiiration, or a valvular puncture, may become necessary, after which firm com2>ression should be kept uj) over the site of the swelling for a considerable time. The sac will sometimes refill, again and again, requiring reiieated tapjiings. Should the fluid be or become serous after sev’eral tap- pings, and tend to re-form, an injection of iodine may be tried. If j:)us form, eitlier sjiontaneously or as the result of attempts to get rid of the effusion, free incisions, followed by the use of antisejitic injections and dressings, should not be delayed. "Wounds of the Scalp.—These may be incised, punctured, contused, or lacerated. Incised wounds differ in no respect from those of other regions. Punctured loounds are more apt to be followed by trouble, because the vul- nerating body punctures the various planes of tissues forming the scal]i at points which do not corresjiond, owing to the freedom of movement enjoyed by the occijiito-frontal ajDoneurosis, and, in consequence, the resultant effusions 1 Erichsen, Science and Art of Surgery, Am. ed., vol. i. p. 529.