INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 354 nerve proper, in its terminal apparatus, or in some part of the labyrinthine s_ystem of chambers. Such a diagnosis partakes necessarily of a speculative character, hut in the present state of our knowledge we are prevented from reaching anything of a more definite character. rrom time to time, we encounter cases in which the prominent symptom is a sudden or comparatively rapid loss of hearing in one or both ears. Inas- much as a careful examination of all the accessible parts of the ear fails to reveal any lesions adequate to explain the deafness, and inasmuch as all sounds, whether transmitted through the hones of the skull or through the air, seem to he perceived only by the sound ear (in those cases in which the deafness is one-sided), we are accustomed to make the diagnosis of disease of the auditory nerve. In many of these cases we feel as if we might safely go a step farther, and locate the disease in that part of the auditory nerve which lies within the system of chambers called “ the labyrinth.” 'The temptation to do this is, I confess, very strong; but at the same time we must remember that our actual knowledge, whether pathological or physio- logical, does not justify us in making any such diagnosis. The terms Meniere’s disease and apopleMform deafness are applied to a group of symptoms of which the most prominent are a sudden loss of hearing (on one or on both sides, and usually complete), well-marked vertigo, inability to maintain one’s balance, nausea, and tinnitus. In a case of this kind, Meniere found the different chambers of the labyrinth, at the post-mortem exami- nation, tilled with clotted blood. From that time to the ])resent, it has been the custom to associate these lesions with the train of symptoms enumerated above; but whether correctly or not, I am not prepared to say. In a very small number of these cases, tlie hearing returns after the lapse of a few days, either to a large extent, or, more commonly, only to a slight degree. Leech- ing, counter-irritation behind the ear, and I’est in bed, may accomplish some good, but as a rule no treatment is found to be of any use in restoring the lost hearing. A second and very striking type of disease of the auditory nerve is that observed in the course of constitutional syphilis. The loss of hearing takes place gradually, though generally in fi-om one to four weeks the deafness becomes almost or quite complete. The symptoms of dizziness, difficulty in maintaining one’s balance, and nai;sea, are often absent, and when they are present, they are usually much less marked than they are in Meniere’s disease. The prognosis is not favorable. Dr. Eoosa, of Aew York, once suc- ceeded, in a case of total deafness dependent upon syphilis, in restoring a large fraction of the hearing. I have repeated the same treatment—administration of iodide of potassium in increasing doses—in two or three cases, hut it has not been my good fortune to restore more than a small part of the lost function. In one of these cases, I pushed the treatment with the iodide of l)otassium up to the point at which my patient took three hundred grains of the remedy, eveiy day, for a period of several days. There are various general diseases in the course of which tlie auditory nerve is believed to be seriously atfected. All the infective fevers seem to predispose the patient to a sudden or rapid loss of hearing, without any demonstrable simultaneous affection of the middle eai’. Epidemic cerebro- spinal meningitis is particularly liable to induce a sudden loss of hearing, commonly in both ears. In these cases, it is a well-established fact that the inflammation at the base of the brain spreads to the labyrinth, and probably does the chief damage in the cochlea. The patliology of the loss of hearing which is occasionally observed in mumps, is much more obscure. The same is true of the sudden deafness which occurs after a confinement. In the great majority of all these cases treatment is of no avail, and the loss of hearing is permanent.