120 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. normal skin. Its distinguishing feature is that it is resonant on percussion. I3y pressure, the tumor, Avhen not too large, can be entirely emptied, this reduction being often accompanied by a hissing sound in the ear. In Chavance’s case the membrana tympani had been ruptured, and on applying pressure to the tumor air issued from the ear Avith a AAdiistling noise. In the frontal pneumatocele, a like hissing sound could be heard on auscultation AA'hen attempts AA^ere made to reduce the mass. Forcible expiratory efforts often inci’ease the size of the tumor. Pneumatocele is painless and causes no incoiiA'enience, although in a feAA^ cases it has been associated with pain in the part, some deafness, A^ertigo, and sickiiess. These symptoms are increased or induced by pressure on the tumor. In one case (LlojuTs) tliere AA^as para- lysis of the arm, and in the frontal tumor the sense of smell had been lost. The progress of pneumatocele is A^ery sIoaa’', being usually a matter of years. The tumor steadily increases in size, although in one case (Lloyd’s) it trebled its dimensions in tAVo days. It often attains large size, occupying one-half of the A'ault of the skull. Such large tumors are scarcely, if at all, affected by pressure. Pneumatocele sIioaa's no tendency to spontaneous cure, and at the same time a fatal issue has neA^er occurred directly from this affection. The prognosis, therefore, is faA’orable. Anatomy.—The air in these cases is alAA'ays beneath the pericranium, and is deriA'Cd from the mastoid cells or frontal sinus by spontaneous pei-foration of the bone coA^ering those cavities. Chemical analysis shoAvs this air to he someAvhat modified in composition, its oxygen being diminished, its nitrogen and carbonic acid increased. These changes are similar to those noted in analyses of the gaseous matter obtained from cases of ordinary surgical em- physema. It is unnecessary to observe that the mastoid cells communicate Avith the middle ear, and the frontal sinus Avith the nasal cavity. The pericra- nium in these cases is of normal aspect, and the extent of the tumor is ahvays found to he limited by the attachments of this membrane. The hone Avhich underlies these tumors, and Avhich is exposed AA’hen they are opened up, pre- sents ahvays a remarkable alteration. It is found to he extremely rough, and to present many irregular elevations and depressions; and so large are these bosses or elevations in some cases, that they can be felt through the integu- ments Avhen the contents of the tumor have been removed by pressure. The cause of this remarkable change is unknoAvn. It is coextensive Avith the separation of the i)ericraniuni; and it is stated that the bony irregularities disappear Avhen the pericranium again becomes adherent to the skull, a con- dition that obtains in cases of cure. Apertures are observed in the exposed bone, and although there is no doubt that some at least of these communicate Avith the sinuses of the affected part, yet this communication has not been actually demonstrated in the only tAvo cases Avhich have been examined after death.^ The evidence of this communication depends upon clinical obser- vation, and is, I imagine, indisputable. The causes of pneumatoceles are still most obscure. It is acknowledged that they are due to a spontaneous perforation of the bone covering an air- containing cell or sinus, but how that perforation is brought about is still unknoAvn. Injury appears to be no factor in its production. In only one of the ten cases knoAvn to surgeons can a traumatism be fairly considered to have had any real concern in the etiology. It is probable, therefore, that the perforation is brought about either by a localized and progressive atrophy of the bone, or by the destructive action of caries sicca.^ The atrophic ' Lecat, Recueil des Actes de la Soc. de Sante de Lyon, tome i. p. 31. 1798; and Fleury, Observat. de pneumat., Bull, de la. Soc. de Chir., 2e serie, tome viii. p. 520. Paris, 1867. * Heineke, loc. cit., S. 14.