390 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. that is, it prevents the germs from the external air from penetrating into and acting on the nincus, already too prone to decompose; and Fraenkel advises astringents and the galvano-cautery as the most serviceable means against the atrophy. The whole matter of treatment is summed np tersely hy Kendal Franks,^ to the effect that, if tlie theory that the disease is due to atrophy of the mucous membrane is correct, there can be as little question of curing the affection as there Avould be of causing the retrogression of a granular kidney, or of a cir- rhotic liver. By the application of strong astringents to the already atro- phied mucous membrane, nothing is to be gained, though if weAvere able to get the disease in its hypertrophic stage, theoretically Ave ought to be able to effect a return almost to the normal condition. Rouge^ holds the view that it is impossible to have an ozaena Avithout some lesion of the skeleton of the nasal cavities—a vieAv in Avhich, as has been said, I do not coincide, although I agi’ee Avith the majority of the conclusions upon Avhich he bases it, and hold that they serve equally well to corroborate the opinion above expressed as to the true cause of the disease; he advises that the upper lip and nostrils should be lifted together by first freeing them by incisions through the mucous membrane of the mouth, and dividing the cartilages at their attachment to the upper jaAvs. The anterior bony nares are thus completel}^ exposed, and a good vieAV obtained of the interior of the nasal fossae, together Avith ample space for the introduction of instruments and the removal of diseased bone. Syphilitic Affections of the Kasal Passages.®—Syphilis may exhibit various manifestations in the nasal passages. In the infant, the disease appears congenitally^ under the form of an acute coryza, Avith its attendant symptoms of swelling of the mucous membrane, obstruction to nasal respiration, profuse discharge, and hoarse voice, together Avith other evidences of the disease, such as affections of the skin, excoriations of the anus, etc. The evil effects of the nasal obstruction, as shoAvn in the inef- fectual attempts of the child to nurse, and its consequent inanition, haA-e been elseAvhere detailed (see page 374). The condition often becomes one of grave import. In addition to the ordinary constitutional treatment of the primary disease, it becomes requisite, in such cases, to thoroughly clear the nasal pas- sages of all accumulated discharges, by the careful use of a S3u’inge, Avith a solution of borax, chlorate of potassium, or tlie like, in Avarm AA^ater. Sooth- ing ointments may then be applied Avith a brush, Avith good effect. The dis- ease usuall}^ ^delds to this plan, Avithout recourse being necessaiy to more heroic measures or to more active medication. Chancre of the nostril is occasionally met Avith; Watson,^ Cutter, and others report instances of its occurrence. The secondary stages of the acquired malad}^ are occasional!}^ characterized by an acute and persistent coiyza, and, still more rarel^q by superficial ulcer- ations of the mucous membrane. Mucous patches may ap}>ear about the orifices of the nostrils. The earlier sjnnptoms of the disease are simpl}^ those of an uncomplicated nasal catarrh, from Avhich it presents no points of diagnostic difference, and recourse, in attempting to establish its true nature, must ahvaj^s be had to the clinical history of the case. The ulcerations, slight as they are, are more characteristic; their progress is sIoav, and the}^ ' Dublin Jour. Med. Sei., April, 1882. 2 Nouvelle M^thode Cliirurgicale pour le Traitement Cbirurgical de I’Ozene. Lausanne, 1873. ® See Schuster and Sanger, Vierteljahrsschr. I'iir Derm, und Syph., Jahrg. iv. Heft i.-ii. 1877; and Mauriac on Naso-Pharyngeal Syphilis. Paris, 1880. * Med. Times and Gaz., April 10, 1881.