CYSTS OF THE NECK, 603 applying the twisted suture. Electrolysis, cauterization, and the ligature have all been applied to nrevi of the neck. Syphilitic tumors are to be dealt with through the general system, according to the stage of the disease in which they arise. Iodide of potassium and iron in large doses are, as a rule, the most efficacious treatment, with possibly the careful administration of the green iodide of mercury in the event of the other remedies failing, or being slow to act. Iodine may also be applied locally.* Cysts of the jSTeck. There are many forms of cystoma met with in this region. Some of these tumors lie above and some below the cervical aponeurosis. Some are soli- tary, and others are found in groups forming large and formidable tumors.^ Congenital serous cysts {hydrocele of the neck; hygroma) have their seat in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and are chiefly seen on the left side of the neck in its antero-lateral region. They are usually unilocular, but are at times divided into various compartments by imperfect partitions. They are, for the most part, round, smooth, elastic swellings, having but a loose connection to the parts above and below them. If very tense, they may communicate to the hand the tirnmess of a solid growth. It is seldom that they are sufficiently prominent to enable translucency to be made out, but a certain bluish or opaline color can be sometimes distinguished. They cause no pain, but as they may attain an enormous size, so as even to fill the whole side of the neck, their bulk and the deformity which they occasion may cause much inconvenience. The contents may vary much in color and con- sistence, being at times like water, and at other times thick, and of a 3’ellow, green, or dark-brown color, from mixture with blood. More rarely there are solid contents. The fluid is saline and albuminous, and if there are several cysts combined, each may have a different colored fluid within it. The cyst wall is usually very thin and delicate, so as to be difficult to recognize and remove ; but in consequence of inflammatory deposition it may become thick and resistant. These cj^sts are not vascular, and the skin covering them may be healthy and unchanged. They do not, as a rule, cause functional distur- bance ; tmt in young children, when they attain a large size and are deeply placed, they may occasion a dangerous amount of pressure. If injured and consequently inflamed, or if bleeding take place into them, a serous cyst may become a source of danger. The least dangerous position for serous cysts (though they may cause much deformity when placed there) is the back of the neck, where they may reach a large size. When a number of cysts are combined in a congeries, the grouping may vary considerably, as secondary growths may be attached to the main mass and give it a very irregular shape. Congenital cysts occasionally undergo spontaneous cure. They may burst inwards into the pliarynx, or outwards by the skin. They may become consolidated after inflammation, and may then disappear by absoiq)tion. Cysts containing teeth, hair, cartilage, etc., have in rare instances been seen as congenital growths in the neck. They are soft, round, smooth and ' Bouisson, Gaz. M6d. de Paris. .luillet, 1856. 2 On tills subject see Voillernier, Dee kystes dn con. Paris, 1851 ; Bnnclier, Etude snr les kystes congenitaux du con. Paris, 1868 ; Maunoir, Memoire. Paris, 1825 ; Hawkins, Wed.- Cliir. Trans. 1839 ; Bryant, Med. Times and Gazette. April, 1876 ; Anger, Bull, de la Soc. de Cliirurgie. I)6o. 1875 ; Vernlier, Die angebornen Kystenliygroin ; also many papers in Langenbeck’s Aroli. fiir klin. Cliir., in the English Med. Journals, in the Gazette des Hopitaux, Arch. Gen. de Medeciiie, etc.