INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE ABDOMEN. 998 there will be evidence of severe inflammation, with rigors, following an injury; or coming on in the course of some illness connected with one or other of the abdominal organs. There will be high fever, local tenderness, and increased dulness on percussion, and in a short time a tumor may show itself. Sometimes the swelling is visible below the edges of tlie lower ribs, sometimes in the epigastrium, or in the lumbar region. In not a few cases there have been intermittent attacks of severe abdominal pain, tenderness, and tympanites, attended with general symptoms of fever or of aguish attacks; dys})cpsia, provoked by the implication of the sympathetic nerves and ganglia in the surrounding inflammation ; constipation and sickness; and sometimes vomiting of blood-stained fluid or of blood. Such sympfoms, occurring after a period of some abdominal ailment, or of fixed abdominal pain of long duration—or themselves extending over many weeks or months, or perhaps recurring at intervals during a year or two— should make the surgeon suspicious that abdominal abscess exists somewhere, though there may be nothing to point definitely to the seat of the mischief, and though, too often, surgical aid could not avail if an exact diagnosis were formed. Much the same sort of symptoms are caused by retro-pei’itoneal abscesses, and in some cases, such as those in which suppuration is excited by ulcers of the duodenum, strictures of the cesophagus near the stomach, pan- creatic calculi, etc.—in which tactile and ocular demonstrations are not pos- sible—it is quite out of the question to be alile to say whether the abscess is behind or within the peritoneum, or both. In many respects, some of the abscesses between the diaphragm and liver resemble hepatic abscesses, and those between the diaphragm and spleen resemble splenic abscesses. Diagnosis.—From retro-peritoneal and perinephric abscesses, from hepa- tic, splenic, and renal abscesses, from hydronephrosis, abdominal cysts, aneu- risms, accumulations of extravasated blood, and malignant and other tumors, these intra-peritoneal abscesses have to be distinguished. Sometimes, in the diaphragmatic abscesses, the chest symptoms, after the first few days, altogether overshadow tlie abdomijial, and thus lead to errors in diagnosis; even on post-mortem examination, thei’e is occasionally room for difference of opinion as to whether such an abscess has caused empyema, or an em- pyema the abscess; in other cases it is quite as difficult to decide whether an abscess has been peri-hepatic or peri-splenic in its origin, and has involved the viscns in its progress, or whether its starting-point has not been in the substance of the organ. C. Zuber* reports two cases of peri-splenic collection, one of whicli had not been detected during life as there were no symptoms pointing attention to the left side, while the other was wrongly diagnosed to be a case of intra-abdominal malignant disease. iSTeither the error in diag- nosis nor the post-mortem surprise is a very I’are thing in such cases. Attention must therefore be given to the previous history, onset, and earlier symptoms of these obscure eases; and if it be borne in mind that they very frequently, perhaps generally, result from direct external injury, or by exten- sion from some disease in a neighboring organ, a correct diagnosis may often be made. The character of the tumor, when one exists, is not specially diag- nostic ; it is often a hard swelling or a mere fulness, the borders of which are ronndod and ill-defined, and inclined away from the surface; on percussion it gives a note of a doubtful kind—sometimes dull, sometimes half tympani- ttic and half dull—and if there is a cojnmunication between it and the stomach or Ijowel, a peculiar gurgling sound may be detected in it. It must further be borne in mind, whilst examining a doubtful case of abdominal disease or * Rev. de Medeciue, Nov. 1882.