1178 Fig. 1160. pad, such as is shoAvn in the accom- HERNIA. inch broad, long enough to reach well over the sides of the liody. As the child grows stronger, the straps should be made wider, and should encircle thebod}’ and cross each other behind. The front of the abdomen should be well covered both above the navel and below, to the extent of three or four inches, tlie skin being w^ell protected by cotton-wool and dusting powder. If the skin shows signs of becoming irritated by the strapping, an India-rubber, seamless, circular belt, with a flat pad of lead, or a penny piece, placed in a pocket made over the navel, should be placed around the body, over the feet of the child, the skin being well protected by cotton-wool and dusting powder, and, after cleansing, being well dried wdth a soft, wann cloth. At a more advanced age, an India-rubber panying cut, from a belt made by Matthews, of Care}' Street (Fig. 1160), may with advantage be substituted. It is made entirely of India-rubber, wdth an oval ring placed longitudinally on the sides of the hernial opening, and set in an oval thick piece jdaced with its long diameter transversely, the India-rubber strap crossing the ring, to wdiich it is cemented, and filling up its oval opening so as to lie flat upon the skin. The same instrument-maker has an ingenious contriv- ance for this purpose, in which the opening of tliO pad is filled up by an India-rubber, gloljular ball, communicating by an aperture wdth the interior of an oval ring made of a thick India-rubber tube, bent into shape, and with its ends hermetically sealed. In this apparatus, when applied, any tendency to protrusion of the hernia at the navel is at once checked by the passage of air from the oval tube-ring into the globular obturator, distending it into a rigid ball wdiich presses back the hernial protrusion like a spring, and wdiich is acted on by the tension of an India-rubber body-belt pressing upon the tubu- lar ring. A great number of patients have now been treated by this appara- tus, with the result of a complete cure during the first twm years of infancy. In cases of young people with more confirmed heriiiee, in whom the de- velopment of the recti abdominis muscles gives a tendency to bear off the pressure when the muscles contract, and so to allow the rupture to escape at the time when the compressed abdominal viscera tend to project the hernia most intensely, it is w'ell to place tlie oval wdngs of the pad longitudinally, and to increase its thickness and mould it upon the linea alba for three or four inches, so as to fill up the hollow betw^een the recti, above and below the hernia. The body-belt should also be made proportionately much broader than that rejn’esented in the Avoodcut. In adults, the body-belt may be of stout jean, wdth elastic sides, and made to lace up behind. In stout persons with umbilical or ventral herniie, the whole of the protuberant abdomen should be covered Avith the l)ody-belt, shaped like those Avorn after parturition. It should come Avell doAvn to the folds of the groins, and should be so shaped as to be narroAver at the sides and back, its loAAmr border skirting closely the haunch bones, and being Avell pi'otected against cutting or chafing the adipose folds of skin by a binding of soft morocco or Avash-leather. The hernia should be covered and protected from an accidental bloAA^, or pressure, by a thin plate of German silver, moulded in a gutta-percha mould upon the shape of the rupture, and large enough to coA'er it Avell, and to extend an inch or tAvo beyond its margin. This plate should be lined Avith an air-pad of India-rub- ber, fitted to lie evenly upon the rujiture, Avith a rounded margin made of a piece of Avide and strong India-rubber tubing. A stout, broad belt, or ful-