1017 ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xiv, p. 203. Witli Dr. Bowditclrs conclusion ns to early operation in these, and indeed in all abscesses al>ont the peritoneal organs, I cordially agree, and I would strongly recommend the perusal of his article to all surgeons interested in the surgery of the abdomen. As he very rightly remarks: “ If ever there be occasions for a cautious boldness on the part of the surgeon, these abscesses present them.”^ VII. Fecal Abscess.—Fecal abscesses are of two kinds, namely, (1) those which are caused by the extravasation of fecal matter, and which, therefore, are fecal from their origin, and (2) those which arise from causes quite uncon- nected with the bowel, but which at length ulcerate into it and l)ecome fecal by the destruction which they have themselves wrouglit upon the walls of the intestine. It must l)e noticed, however, that an abscess, originally fecal, may commu- nicate again with the bowel by opening into it from without, and after exciting ulceration or sloughing of the intestinal walls. These secondary openings are often at a }>art of the bowel a long way from the original dis- ease. Again, on the other hand, a simple abscess or cyst may be converted into a fecal abscess, not by the extension or pressure of the original abscess or cyst, but by the destructive progress of some independent, but coexisting disease. A case in point lias been recorded by Dr. Bristowe an ovarian cyst, the size of a walnut, was converted into a fecal abscess with thin, offensive, feculent contents, by the bursting into it of a fecal abscess in the cellular tissue about the rectum, which in its turn had been caused by the perforation of the rectum by ulceration commencing in its mucous membrane. Another fecal cavity, circumscribed by adhesions, had been formed in the same case and by the same process of ulceration in the colon; and this cavity had effected two secondary communications with two coils of the upper part of the ileum. (Fig. 1125.) These orifices, though close together, were, when measured along the course of the ileum, about a foot apart. This single case illustrates the two complications of fecal abscess just refer- red to. Situations of Fecal Abscesses.—Fecal abscesses might be classified also according to their situa- tion, into two sets, namely, the intra-]»eritoneal and the extra-peritoneal. Intra-peritoneal alj- scesses may be situated in any })art of the abdo- minal or pelvic cavities; between the diaphragm and stomach, or colon; amongst the coils of small intestine; in the neighljorhood of tlie cfecum or sigmoid flexure, in the right or left iliac fossa, or in the pelvis ; and Ijetween the rectum and uterus, rectum and l)ladder, or uterus and lila.lder; they occur also in the hypogastric ^ecal ab.cess originating i„ disease of . ’ t/ , V1 ir> the colon, aud communicating secondaril7 rGglOll OGtWGOll tllG pGlVlC OTgUllS (JOloW UIhI with the ileum at two places. (Bristowe.) Fig. 1125. 1 Trousseau’s Clinical Medicine (Sydenham Society’s Translation), vol. v. pp. 33.3-365, should he eon.sulted. An essay hy Kraetschmar, (Des Ahces Perinephriques. Paris, 1872) may also he consulted. Dr. .1. B. Koherts, of Philadelphia, has recently puhlished a very valuable paper in the Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1883, entitled “The Clinical History and Exact Localization of Perinephric Abscesses,” which, besides its own intrinsic merit, is valuable on account of the references it gives to tile works of others. So, for this reason also, is Dr. Duffiu’s article, of which I have made free use.