202 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. eye of a bystander when a percussion-cap is exploded. He rubs the eye for a moment, wipes away a tear, and feels it no more. On close inspection, a par- ticle of the cylinder is found to have passed through the cornea and lodged in the anterior chamber, the iris, or the lens—or even to have cleared all of these and gone deep into the vitreous—causing, perhaps, very little imme- diate impairment of vision. Tlie first step in the diagnosis is to find fhe wound ; the second, to determine whether or not it extends through all the coats of the eye; and the. third, to ascertain if the injuring body has re- bounded, has lodged in the tunics themselves, or has cleared them and entered the globe to remain. In seeking tlie wound, each part of the eye must be inspected in systematic order, beginning with the one most com- monly injured, the cornea. In this examination we may be often guided, with some certainty, to the seat of injury, by the circumstances under which it occurred, and by the existence of a scratch or cut of one or other eye- lid. But as the eye is nearly always open at such times, if the body is small it strikes the cornea directly, without grazing or passing through the lids. In these cases the diagnosis is often extremely difficult. The cornea, covered by its smooth, polished epithelium, acts as a reflector, forming images of oljjects in front of it. If the epithelium at any point be abraded or rough, a corresponding blur and defect will be seen in the sharp image of tlie win- dow towards which it looks. The eye should be examined at an angle, and made to move slowly so that the little image may travel over all parts of its surface in succession. Another excellent means of detecting a very small scratch or wound in the cornea is by obliipie illumination. Darken the room and light your gas or lamp, seat your patient facing it, and concentrate the light upon the cornea by a strong convex lens of two or three inches’ focus. If an abrasion or wound, be it ever so minute, exist, you will thus see it. Of course, if the cut be large, with hernia of the iris, it is seen at once without these aids. Discovered the seat of the wound, has it penetrated? If the iris is drawn into it by the escape of aqueous humor, forming a hernia, ever so small, yes. If the chamber has its relations altered—that is, if the iris is near or in con- tact with the cornea, whether jirolapsed or not—yes. If there is blood in the chamber, much or little, wdthout the possibility of a severe concussion of the eye, with or without unnatural softness of the ball to the touch, yes. If a small hole is seen in the iris, corresponding in size to the corneal wound, and in the probable direction of the penetrating body, with or without blood in the chamber, or alteration of the depth of the chamber, yes. If the foreign body can be certaiidy seen in the iris, lens, or chamber, yes. If, with the wound of the cornea, with or without changes in the chamber or the tension of the glo.be, the lens is becoming certainly milky, showing beginning cataract, with perhaps a visible wound in its capsule, yes. All of these s^uup- toms failing, in a case of manifest wound of the cornea, you dilate the pupil and use the ophthalmoscope. If the fundus of the eye is darkened by blood, the circumstances precluding rupture of intra-ocular vessels, there is almost certainly penetration. If the foreign body can be positively seen within the organ—in the chamber, iris, lens, vitreous, or retina—the diagnosis is sure. Of course, im[)airmeiit of sight and the appearance of a cloud in the held of vision, caused by extravasated blood or the foreign body, or both, come in as corroborative evidence of penetration. The sight may be destroyed at once or very soon; or it may be little affected, according to the size, direc- tion, and hnal resting place of the offending body. The value of softness of the globe, as an evidence of penetration, is very great, when it certainly is present. But the tension is often not altered. If the foreign body is small,