INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 348 that has been poured out into the bony canal through which the facial nerve passes. That such an effusion should take place, shows that the inflammation of the bone in the vicinity of the antrum has reached a serious degree of activity. The symptom is therefore of decided diagnostic value. In some cases permanent paralysis remains after the mastoid disease has entirely subsided, while in others every trace of the paralysis disappears in the course of a few weeks. Sometimes the tissues on the side of the neck, a short distance below the tip of the mastoid process, become inflamed, and swell rather rapidly into a hard, flattened, and very sensitive tumor. The skin covering this matted cake of inflamed glands and other soft parts lying outside of the muscles of the neck, is red, oedematous, and firmly adherent to the underlying tumor. I have sometimes observed that the development of such a swelling takes place simultaneously with a decided subsidence of the pain in the mastoid region and side of the head, and for this reason I have been disposed to believe that some of the acrid secretion contained in the antrum or pneumatic cells, must have found a way of escape through one of the canals for the mastoid emissary veins, thus diminishing the degree of pressure within the mastoid process, and at the same exciting, by its acrid properties, a sharp inflammation of the tissues into which it first escaped. It is also possible, as suggested by Dr. J. Orne Green, of Boston, that a phlebitis of one of the mastoid emissary veins may be the cause of such a swelling of the soft parts below the mastoid process. By the frecpient application of hot flaxseed-meal poultices, I have known such swellings to disperse without the development of an actual abscess. However, if pus forms, the knife must be used. In several cases I have observed the development of an abscess, or at least of a circumscribed area of inflammation, in some part of the scalp of the corresponding side of the head. I believe that any part of the scalp may become the seat of such an abscess, or of such a localized inflammatory swelling, as I have encountered them in very different regions, viz., in the vicinity of the occiput, on the very top of the head, midway between the top of the head and the mastoid region, and in the temporal region. It seems to me reasonable to suppose that the lymphatics carry some of the acrid secretions from the mastoid cavities to these different localities, thus starting, by transportation, new centres of inflammation.' In opening such abscesses I have sometimes been annoyed by the profuseness and obstinacy of the bleeding. As a rule, the body-temperature may be taken as a measure of the activity of the disease in the mastoid process. This is particularly true of 3'outhful subjects. In adults, however, we must not allow ourselves to be lulled into a sense of security by reason of the absence of noticeable fever. In one of my cases, which terminated fatally (probably from abscess of the brain), the temperature, during the last thirteen days, did not once rise above 100° F. Delirium does not necessarily indicate a fatal issue. Coma and strabismus, on the other hand, are more grave symptoms, for they point clearly to the development of intra-cranial processes which are quite likely to terminate in death. Fractures of the Temporal Bone. As the subject of fractures of the temporal bone is considered in the arti- cle on Injuries of the Head, I shall confine myself in this place to a veiy ■brief presentation of those aspects of the subject to which the general sur- geon as a rule paj^s very little attention. The so-called “fractures at the base of the skull ” probably always involve the temporal bone. These cases do