298 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. as often as may be found necessary, at intervals of five or six days. He also advises that, if any large artery (for example, the posterior auricular) be found acting as a feeder to the growth, it should be tied percutaueously. The danger of hemorrhage, after the use of the cautery, must also be con- stantly borne in mind. According to the same author, ligature of the carotid should not be resorted to until after the repeated use of the cautery has demonstrated clearly that the tumor cannot be destroyed by its employment. Successful results following ligature of the carotid have been obtained by Dupuytren, Mussey, and Weinlechner. Syphilitic gummata are sometimes observed on tlie auricle. Genuine fatty tumors, horn-like growths {cornu humammi)^ and the various forms of sarcoma, are quite rare. Contusions and Wounds of the Auricle.—Serious wounds and other inju- ries of the auricle are not as common, at least in our large cities, as one would be led to expect from the exposed position of this part of the body. Contusions are quite frequently observed, but they generally require no special treatment beyond the employment of the simple measures which tend to allay infiammation. In the few cases in which the damage done has been sutficiently serious to set up a perichondritis, the treatment described as a^ipro- priate for that condition is the proper one to pursue. Wounds made with any kind of cutting instru- ment, are apt to result in a separation of a part of the auricle from the rest of the organ. This sepa- ration may be complete or incomplete. If it be in- complete, the opposite raw edges should be brought into exact coaptation, and held in that position either liy sutures or by a network of cotton fibres over which collodion is freely applied. I remem- ber an instance in which the cut extended through the entire thickness of the auricle, from the fossa concha;, in the immediate neighborhood of the ori- Auncie (after urbantschitsch). gp external auditoiw caiial, to the outer Antih.elix 5 aty AntitrEgus i c, t /» .i t / Tii* oon\ rm j.* ±. Concha (fossa conchas); cf. Crura ^dgC ot tllC llcllX (sCC Fig. 889). I he patlCllt WaS furcata;/r, Fossa intercruralis;/s, illtoxlcated wlieil tlie accidcut OCCUlTcd, aud I’C- Fossa scaphoidea; A, Helix; i. In- rained ill bcd foi’ tlii’ce 01’ foui’ days witliout doiiig — anything for the ear. By that time I found the Spina (crista) heiicis; t, Tragus. THW cdges of the wouiid granulating and bathed m pus. Nevertheless, very good results were obtained by simpl}^ bringing the raw edges carefully together and keeping them in position by means of cotton fibres and collodion. If the separation be com- plete, one part falling to the ground, union may still be expected to take place, provided that the severed fragment of the ear be carefully cleansed, and, as soon as possible, placed firmly in the position in which it belongs. To favor healing as much as possible, a covering of fine cotton or wool should surround the auricle, and thereby maintain the temperature of the separated fragment at a proper point. Triquet^ mentions two well-authenticated instances of restoration of vitality in a severed portion of the auricle, and Schwabach^ says that this successful result is often obtained after student- duels, in which a part of the auricle has been cut off by the sword. The condition known as cleft lobule (due to wearing heavy ear-rings) is of 1 Traits pratique des maladies de I’oreille. Paris, 1857. * Eulenburg, Real-Eiicyclopiidie. 1882. Fig. 889.