396 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. upon catarrlial inflammation of the nose or its accessory cavities, by Carter,* Spencer Watson, and llewan.^ The discharged fluid is clear and colorless, free from smell and taste, of a specific gravity of 1004, and of alkaline reac- tion ; it contains proteid matter, probably albumen, chloride of sodium, phos- phates, and a slight trace of iron, but no grape-sugar. Its quantity varies, large amounts often flowing away during the day, either at intervals, con- tinuously, drop by drop, or sometimes so quickly as to form a stream ; it is increased by exertion or straining, or by holding the head forwards, and its duration has been, in the reported instances, from nine to eighteen months. In none of the cases has there been any evidence of general ill-health, or evidence of local disease of the nose. In two, there was the liistoiy of a blow upon the skull, preceding for some time the appearance of the flow. The cause and the source of this large flow of fluid are involved in some obscurity. Paget expressed the opinion that it might he derived from either a frontal or an ethmoidal sinus, from the sub-arachnoid space, or from the sac of the arach- noid membrane ; although a subsequent autopsy in the case which he reported showed its source to be the antrum. Lingard believed that in his case some fracture of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid might possibly have taken place, and have allowed the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid ; a suggestion which also would cover the case of Tillaux. Althaus, on the contrary, asserts that these cases may be explained by the withdrawal of nervous force from the sphere of the trifacial nerve. The nasal mucous membrane receives its nervous supply chiefly from the ophthalmic branch of the trifacial nerve, and from the spheno-palatine ganglion, the secretion from tlie mucous membrane being caused by the sympathetic, and regulated and inhibited by the fibres of the fifth nerve. Remove, he says, this inhibitory influence of the trifacial, so as to allow the sympathetic fibres to rule supreme, and hypersecretion of liquid is the result. Injury or inflammation of tlie nasal twig of the ophthalmic branch of the fifth nerve may then be regarded as a cause, if not the cause, in the examples of the affection thus far recorded; and this view, in regard to any case, would be still further established if there should be antesthesia of the mucous membrane of the nose, or of some portion of it, on the side corres- ponding to the flow. The treatment that has been adopted in the few instances that are reported, consisting mainly of astringents locally, does not appear to have been attended with any marked success. If the theory of Althaus be correct, the use of the constant voltaic current is indicated, to restore the function of the trifacial nerve and thus check the excessive secretion. In one instance this has suc- ceeded. Epistaxis. Hemorrhage from the nose, in which more than a moderate amount of blood is lost, is a very infrequent occurrence; that it may, however, give rise to serious danger, and even destroy life, is shown by the experience of many writers. Rhodius^ relates an instance in which eighteen pounds of blood were lost within twenty-one and a half days; Martineau* one in which twelve pounds flowed away in sixty hours ; and even seventy-five pounds have been known to be lost within a period of ten days.® Gross® has seen five fatal cases, in which death was caused either by imperfect plugging of the I Lancet, Nov. 30, 1878. “ Ibid. ® Ob.s. Med. Francof., 1576. (Obs. xc.) '* Morgagni, De sed. et cans, inorb., lib. i. epist. xiv. 23. ® Act. Erudit. p. 205. Lipsiae, 1688. ^ Syst. of Surgery, sixth ed., vol. ii. page 283.