PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 935 womb toward the wound in the parietes, making pressure meanwhile upon the fnndns; when he had succeeded, lie left the labor to be effected by uterine contractions. lie preferred the left side for the operation. 6. Opening the bladder above the pubis.—^This is done under exceptional circum- stances for the removal of stone, but other less dangerous, and therefore prefer- able, methods of extraction have caused this to be rarely pi-actised at the present day. It is called the high operation for stone, or hypogastric lithotomy, and is said to have been first performed in 1475, in Paris, by Colot, as an experiment on a criminal, by permission of Louis the Eleventh; the patient recovered in a fort- night. In Amussat’s proceeding, as described by ^lalgaigne, the bladder is first distended with water; but in the method of Baudens, no injection into the bladder is previously made. Both operations are arranged so as not to wound the peritoneum, but this has not always been successfully carried out. Puncture of the bladder above the pubis, for tbe relief of urinaiy retention in enlarged prostate or impassable stricture, is still occasionally performed. The peritoneum is notAVOunded. The puncture may be made with anordinary trocar and eanula in the median line, about one or one and a half inches above the sym- physis, either after, or-without, making a previous incision through the skin and fat. Desault advises that the puncture should be made a little above the pubis, so as to avoid injuring the peritoneum. Or instead of an ordinary trocar and eanula, the perforated needle of tlie aspirator may be used with advantage. I have on several occasions resorted to this latter measui’e for the temporary relief of retention. 7. The operations for removing ovarian cysts ami fibro-rnyomaia of the uterus., with Porro’s, Freund’s, Battey’s, and Muller’s operations, are all described in their appropriate chayiters. There are no major o[)erations in sui-gery which are more successful than ovariotomy, and none which exemplify more fully how much interference the peritoneal cavity tolerates, })rovided that every care be used to avoid sources of-danger in the manipulations, and in the mode of cleansing and dressing the parts. 8. The various opei'cdions on the kidney of nephrotomy., nephro-Uthotomy, and. nephrectomy will be described in detail in a sul)sequent portion of this article : sufiice it hero to say that all may lie, and that the two first always are, per- formed without opening the peritoneal cavity. h7e}»hrectomy, if not per- formed by the lumbar incision, entails an incision of the peritoneum in two places. 9. Cholecystotomy a[>pcars to Iiave met ivith a large measure of success ; and with this operation may be mentioned those incisions and punctures for the treatment of hydatid and other cysts, and abscesses, of the various organs and structures of the abdomen. 10. Operations for the ligature of the iliac vessels, the abdominal aorta, the epigastric and other ai’teries, have been considered in a previous volume.^ 11. The various operations for hernia., its radical cure, and tbe relief of strangulation, will be dealt with in the article devoted to tliat subject. 12. Paracentesis Abd,o)ninis.—This is in fact a punctured wound of the abdomen, its object being the withdraival of Huid from tlie peritoneal cavity or from an ovarian cyst. K small incision, about three-fourths of an inch long, should be made through the skin and fat over the linca alba, slightly above the mid-point between the umbilicus and pubes. A simple, round eanula, with a trocar, the point of which should be very sharj) and in the shape of a three-sided pyramid, should then be thrust through thelinea alba into the abdomen, and wlien the instrument has well entered the cavity, the trocai- should be withdrawn whilst the eanula Ls pushed in further. The patient ■ See Vol. in. pp. 311 et serj., supra.