903 PENETRATING WOUNDS OE THE ABDOMEN. at the woLUid if it be already adherent to its edges, hut returning it just within the abdomen if it be not adherent. Before thus treating omentum, care should always be taken that no knuckle of bowel is hidden within or behind it; and also that the prolapsed portion is not such that, after cutting it away, a loose, unattached end shall be left in the abdominal cavity. I have on two or three occasions seen the protruded omentum forming a complete sac, with a large knuckle of intestine within it. I have also, at a post-mortem examination, found a piece of omentum, about four inches by two, lying loose and gangrenous in the abdominal cavity; the omentum had been doubled upon itself, and an elongated loop of it had protruded ; this the sur- geon had tied with a double ligature and cut away, leaving one ligature upon the lower end of the mass, and the other upon the upper end of what proved to be a portion thus completely separated from the rest. Death was caused by peritonitis, set up by this detached piece of omentum left in the perito- neal cavity. Such a fatal error would be avoided by carefully unravelling the omentum before tying it, and, if such a condition as the above were found, and the omentum were not in a lit state to return, it would be best either to draw out the free end before ligaturing it, or to leave the omentum to form adhesions at the wound, after which the projecting part could be removed if it did not slough away ; in either case the stump would cicatrize in the wound. If the omentum be gangrenous, there can be no rpiestion as to the propriety of removing it after tlie ajiplication of a ligature to its base, bearing in mind the [)recaution just stated. The ligatures should be of cat- gut or good silk, and should be cut olf half an inch beyond the knot. When the omentum is allowed to slough, the patient sutlers pain and un- easiness about the wound, and over more or less of the abdomen, and often has a feeling as if a cord were tied tightly around the bell3^ lie has also a sensation of nausea, or actually vomits, and in a short time the symptoms of general peritonitis ensue. The protruded omentum tirst adheres to the edges of the wound and the subjacent parietal peritoneum, a quantity of serous fluid is poured out, and it swells from venous congestion. It loses sensitiveness and becomes discolored, being mottled, bright-red, and dusky- brown, then deep-purple, and, lastly, dingy-black; it is then thrown oil' like other sloughing tissues. The remainder is healthy-looking and granu- lating, and gradually contracts as it cicatrizes, until it leaves a scar on the level of the skin, or slightly cup))ed and depressed below it. Many surgeons of great repute have advocated the plan of leaving the omentum to slough ; it was strongly advised by Key, recommended by Uuthrie, and jireferred by I’oland; but it cannot be gainsaid that excision obviates the tediousness of the sloughing process, while experience has shown that the ligature, when {U’operly a}>plied, is not attended with the dangerous consequences attributed to it. Moreover, it is absolutely demanded when the omentum is not lit to be returned, and yet the constricting force at the wound not sufficient to effect separation by sloughing. In operating for hernia I have often ligatured and removed large portions of the omentum, and have had no reason to question the safety and success of this mode of treatment. Ih'otruded intestine may be irreducible from one of several causes, or may be ])artially strangulated, or completely gangrenous. It may so increase in size from accumulated gas, that reduction is impossible until the gas is pressed out, or allowed to escape through an as})irating tube, or until the parietal wound is enlarged. This latter step must be taken with great care, however, because of the difficulty in preventing fresh portions of the gut from protruding through the eidarged aperture, when flatulent or fluid distension is general, runctur- ing the distended and }U’otruding gut has been advocated by many surgeons, inclu<ling Pare, Garengeot, Sharp, Van Swieten, and several modern autliori-