843 MALIGNANT TUMORS. of the entire gland along with the growth. Recurrent growths should be at once removed if no visceral complication be detected; for such removal certainlj prolongs life, and lessens the risk of further infiltration or involve- ment of internal organs. Carcinomata. — Considering cancer as a new formation, generally now described as an atypic, epithelial growth, which tends to infiltrate the tissue in which it originates, to involve the surrounding textures, and to affect the lymphatic glands and internal organs, it may be held that the varieties of cancer, and the modifications met with in some of them, depend upon the conditions of their cell-elements, and upon the character and con- dition of the stroma in which the cells are contained. There is a considerable ditference with regard to the rapidity of progress, and the date and nature of involvement of surrounding tissues, lymphatic glands, and internal organs, in cases of cancer of the breast: and there is also a considerable ditference in connection with the occurrence of general cachexia in patients sulfering from this disease. In some instances cachexia is from the first well marked, while in others it occurs only late in the progress of the maladju Ror prac- tical purposes the varieties of cancer attecting the breast may be divided into scirrhus^ or hard cancer, and encephxdoid^ or soft cancer. Colloid cancer has, in rare cases, been met with in the lireast as a primary growth, and it occasionally occurs also as a form of degeneration in other tumors. AThen met with as a primary growth it is not at first easily distinguished from other slow-growing tumors, unless there is an opportunity of examining its structure microscopically. Clinically, it is characterized by its firm consist- ence, chronic nature, and slowness to involve lymphatic glands, surrounding tissues, or internal organs. It has been met with at the age of 28, and as late as 66 years—the average being 45 years (Gross)—and it does not usually attain a large size. The frerpiency of the ditferent varieties of cancer in the breast, according to tlie cases tabulated by Prof. Gross and Hr. Henry, may he stated as follows ;—■ Out of 100 cases there were of:— Ordinary scirrhus Simple carcinoma Atro[)liic scirrhus Encephaloid cancer . 77 11 7 ij Of 59 cases of cancer of the lireast reported by J. Alason AVarren,* there were of scirrhus 54 (one patient a male), and of encephaloid only five. I’aget thinks the [)roportion, in Great Britain, not greater than 5 of ence- phaloid to 95 of scin’hus. AI. LeherP states th:it, in France, about one-fifth of the cancel’s of the lireast are soft and ence})haloid. The time of life during wliich patients may suffer from cancer of the bi’east is from 28 to 84 : the majority of cases occur between 40 and 50. Gut of 160 cases observed by Xunn,^ 36.87 per cent, were between 40 and 50. Birkett gives 193 out of 458 cases between the ages of 40 and 50. In a series of 276 cases observed by Paget, there were patients:— Between 20 and 3U years of age ...... 5 “ 30 “ 40 “ 41 “ 40 “ .50 “ 122 “ 50 “ GO “ 65 “ GO “ 70 “ 35 “ 70 “ 80 “ 8 ' Surgical Observations. ® Cancer of the Breast. 2 lies Maladies Caiicereuses.