464 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. with all the intei’vening tissues. It is treated hy excision of a wedge- shaped segment of the lip, the base of the wedge corresponding with the vermilion border. An interesting case of this deformity, illustrated by wood-cuts, is described by Dr. Buck.^ Harelip. Harelip is a congenital malformation of the upper lip, resulting from arrest of development, and presenting, in the more mature state, a continuance of that which is the normal condition in the earlier stages of embryonic development. It derives its name from its resemblance to the cleft which exists in the upper lip of the hare, the rabbit, and other allied animals. It consists of a fissure, usually extending through the whole thickness of the lip, from the nose to the vermilion border. There are several varieties, indicated by the names single and double, simple and complicated. The term single implies that there is but one fissure. The term double denotes that there are two. A simple harelip is one in which there is no concomi- tant malformation of the upper jaw or palate. A complicated harelip is one in which there is a deviation from the normal development of the jaw or palate, or in which the malformation involves both of these parts. In a single harelip, the fissure is rarely situated exactly in the median line. In the large majority of cases it is on the left side, so that the right portion of the lip is broader than the left. In some cases the fissure in- volves only tlie lower portion of the lip, not extending up to the nose. In some cases the margins of the fissure are nearly parallel, and are almost in contact, while in other cases they are widely divergent towai’ds the free border of the lip. In double harelip, the two fissures are usually on the two sides of the median line, and the intermediate portion may he quite narrow, oi' may be of considerable breadth. It is usually broader towards the nose than towards the free margin of the lip. In many cases it does not extend as low as the free border of the lateral portions of the lip. ■ In complicated, harelij), the malformation of the upper jaw may be twofold. There may he an advance of the median portions of the superior maxillary bones far beyond their ordinary position, these projecting portions being detached from the main body of the jaw, and constituting intermaxillary hones such as exist normally in some of the inferior animals. The middle incisor teeth are usually developed in these intermaxillary hones. Or, instead of a projection of the maxillary bones, there may be a fissure, single or double, extending through the alveolar portion of the jaw. The fissure may also involve the bony and soft palate. In many cases of complicated harelip, tlie abnormal prominence of the jaws and fissures of the bony and soft palate are found to coexist. In such cases, when the harelip is double as well as com- plicated, the columna nasi is generally deficient, and the portion of the lip intermediate between the two fissures is attached above to tlie tip of the nose and behind to the projecting intermaxillary bone, and seems to be an appurte- nance of the nose rather tlian of the lip. In the majority of cases, harelip occurs sporadically, not showing any re- markable tendency to attect ditierent members of the same family. But I have become acquainted with two families in which nearly all of the children presented some variety of this malformation. In one of these families, the mother also had harelip. ' Contributions to Reparative Surgery, pp. 159-1G4.