969 URACHAL ABSCESS AND FISTULA. precedes it, as in tlie case reported by Mr. Savory.^ This patient was a male child, aged thirteen months, in whom an abscess, which had been forming for eight weeks, pointed, and was opened at the umbilicns. The s^miptoms were pain in the lower part of the abdomen, and frequent desire to micturate. Vesical calculus was suspected. Afterwards there was a discharge of pus, and of nearly all the urine, through the umbilical fistula. The child died nine days after the abscess was opened. At the autopsy it was discovered that a poly- pus of the bladder had led to obstruction at tlie orifice of the urethra, and this to dilatation and suppuration of the ureters and kidneys. A small papilla on the upper part of the vesical Avail represented the unobliterated urachus, but a probe could not be passed from the urachus into the bladder. Mr. Savory surmised that a valvular communication with the bladder had existed, and that the urine, having been propelled into the urachus, had set up suppuration ai’ound, so that by degrees the urachus had been destroyed, and an abscess cavity formed between the }ieritoneum ami the rest of the abdominal parietes. The abscess extended in the course of the urachus from the bladder to the umbilicus. Though no opening could be detected after death betAveen the bladtler and abscess, or urachus and abscess, there is the fact tliat during life, for some days, nearl}- all the urine passed through the umbilical fistula, and the fair inference is that the urachus communicated with the abscess cavity. Urachal fistuke may be either congenital or non-con genital. When an abscess precedes the fistula, as in the case just referred to, the latter is nou- congenital; and in some cases Avhere there has not been an abscess, the fistula is not congenital, though in all, the defect Avhich makes it a possibility and Avhich iinleed preilisposes to it—namely the non-obliteration of tbe uracbal tube—is of course congenital. Dr. Francis CadelP has reported the case of a girl aged eight, Avho from earliest infancy had had difficulty in micturition Avith frccpient desire to pass Avater. From four years of age the symptoms of cystitis had increased, and Avhen eight years old, aftei- a few days of great pain, Avith swelling and hai’dness of tlie belly, urine Avas observed to come in a small stream from the navel. A Vo. 6 cathe- ter could be passed through the fistula into the bladder. The child died four months afterwmrds from C3^stitis, Avith sacculated and siqipnrating ure- ters ami kidneys. At the autopsy tlie umbilicns Avas found to be natural, save for the fistulous opening, Avliich presented neither fungating granulations nor induration about its margins. The bladder Avas contracted and thick- ened, and the little finger could be passed from it into the unobliterated ura- chus, Avhich graduall}' narrowed tOAvards the navel. In this ease the urachus must have been in part patent from liirth, and lia\^e become gradually dilated until it gave Avay altogether, AAdien a urinary fistula Avas established. Mode of Oriijin of Non-congenitul Fistida.—When the loAvcr end of the urachus remains open, some of the ui'ine is forced into it in each act of mic- turition, es[»ecially straining micturition, and at the commencement of the act, tis Avas shoAvn by I’aget’s case. If the bladder becomes after a time the seat of inflammation, the difficulty and straining in micturition Avill increase the dilatation of tlie urachus, as it does that of the ureters and pelves of the kidneys. Again, if, as Luschka seems to indicate, the vesical orifice of the uraclius becomes very niinnte, or even closes, Ave see hoAv the tube of the urachus may be converted into a shut sac ; and tbeu, if any urine or mucus is inclosed Avitbin it, intlammation and abscess Avill be caused, and the aliscess may either burst spontaneously, or lie o})ened by the surgeon, at the umbilicus, ' Mod. Times and (razette, vol. ii. ji. 106. 1852. 2 Uiidnlical Urinary Fistula. Ediii. Med. .Journal, September, 1878, p. 221.