93 TREPHINING. instances death has been due to injuries other than those of the head, such as rupture of the renal vein, of the liver, etc. In many others, the post-mortem examination has shown that death has resulted, not from the operation, but from the injuries for which the trephining was done. In some cases, Avhich have been quoted at second or third hand, trephining was not performed, but mere elevation of fragments with no removal of sound hone, while in a few no operation at all has been done. To obtain, with anything like an approach to accuracy, the actual death- rate, we must resort to a series of cases where the operation has been performed upon persons in good health, without concomitant cerebral traumatism. The nearest approach to this is where the operation has been done for epilepsy, persistent pain in the head, etc., where the patients have been otherwise in good health. When death results in this class of eases, the operation must certainly be chargeable with it. An examination of the extended statistics of Mr. Walsham, combined with the results of other cases which I have added, show that the immediate mortality only amounts to 10.G9 per cent., for'out of 159 cases but 17 have proved fatal.* That statistics are easily manipulated I am aware; but, as far as I knowq these cases have been taken just as they have come. I could add others which might make the exhibit more or less favorable, but the figures quoted are the most extended, and at the same time the most trust- worthy, that I am acquainted with. I have added 37 cases of operation for epi- lepsy and insanity to the 122 of Walsham. Through the kindness of Prof. W. T. Briggs, of Hashville, I am in possession of the details of 33 operations for epilepsy or insanity jierformed by him, and the details of the remaining 4 cases are also known to me. These figures are therefore more valuable for determining the mortality of the operation, j)cr se, than those of Billings’s or Eccheverria’s tables of operations for epilepsy, in which details are, for the most part, wanting. The latter writer, too, includes cases of recent head injury, to which tlie terra traumatic epilepsy is not strictly applicable. These were doubtless cases of epileptiform convulsion from contusion of the brain, etc., and of course increase the ajiparent mortality of the operation. For similar reasons, the statement of the mortality of operations for traumatic epilepsy, which will be given hereafter, is not derived from eitlier Billings’s or Eccheverria’s tables, but from a series of cases with the details of which I am familiar. A further examination of those eases of which the details are sufficiently accurate, show that in 85 cases where there was no wound or fistulous tract, 72 ended in recovery and 13 in death, a mortality of 15.29 per cent. In 40 addi- tional cases, wherea fistula communicated with the dead bone,or an intracranial abscess existed at the time of operation, 39 patients recovered and only one died, a death-rate of 2.5 per cent. In the aggregate of statistics above given, of 159 cases, the mortality of 10.69 per cent, probably fairly represents the risk of the operation per se, as it is done for fractures and acute head-injuries, some of which are compound, some of wliich are made so—as in trephining for simple frac- ture—and in some of which more or less ancient suppuration exists. I think likewise that the death-rate of 15.29 per cent, may be taken as a guide as to the risks of trephining in simple depressed fracture, that is to say, that it expresses the risk of the operation pe/- se, exclusive of that wliich attends the concomitant intracranial injuries. The correct appreciation ot the share which trephining has in conducing to a fatal result in cases of acute traumatism, such as comjiound fracture, is ' Briggs, Trails. Am. Med. Association, vol. xxxi. 1880, and personal communication from author; Walsham, St. Barth. Hosp. Reports, vol. xviii. p. 220; Byrd, Proceedings of the Am. Surgical Association, 1884.