934 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. of distension followed the evacuation of an enormous quautitj of fluid fecal matter and gas. 4. Openmg the large intestine is performed for the relief of intestinal obstruction. Either the crecum, the ascending or descending colon, or the sigmoid flexure, may be the seat of the operation. In the ordinary operation of colotomy, whether on the right or left side, the peritoneum should be avoided. In this opei’ation it is uncertain, in any given case, what spot on the ascending or descending colon will be reached through the incision. In left colotomy, any part from just below the splenic flexure to the sigmoid flexure, may present itself at the wound. In some cases, such as those of imperforate or defective rectum, the sigmoid flexure should be opened in the left iliac fossa. This is the operation known by the name of Littre, having been first proposed by him in 1720, though it was first practised by M. Dubois in 1783. M. Huguier has recommended that the opening should be made in the right groin instead, because of the occa- sional deviation, in cases of deficiency of the rectum, of the sigmoid flexure to the right side, instead of its ending on the left. The csecum has been opened in the right iliac region by an oblicpie incision above Poupart’s ligament, by M. Pillore; and in a case related by Mr. Avery to the London Pathological Society, the ciecurn was opened by an incision six inches long in the right groin.' 5. Opening the uterus may be performed, first, by opening the peritoneal cavity, and secondly, by avoiding the peritoneum. Opening the uterus through the peritoneum is generally done (1) by a longitu- dinal incision through the median line. I have twice had occasion to perform tliis operation, and once^ with the result of saving both mother and cliild ; in the other case,^ craniotomy had previously been employed, but without delivery p>er vias naturales having been made possible: the woman was in a most exhausted condition therefrom, and survived the operation only seventy- two hours. (2) The lateral incision was anciently adopted, the left side Iteing preferred, and the line of selection being along the outer edge of the rectus abdominis, for about six inches. This operation tell into disuse on account of the danger of wounding the epigastric artery, and the great tendency to retraction of the muscles. This is a point worth bearing in mind in the selection of the line of operation in nephrectomy. (3) The transverse incision, recommended by Lauverjat, was made five inches long, between the edge of the rectus and the spinal column, and more or less high according to the elevation of the womb. Opening the uterus urithout injuring the peritoneum has been performed in three different ways. (1) Dr. Physiek proposed a transverse incision imme- diately above the pubis; the peritoneum Avas to be detached, as it easily can be, from the bladder and neck of the womb, and the womb was then to be opened without dividing the peritoneum. (2) M. Pitgen recommended that the neck of the uterus should be reached and opened by dividing the abdominal muscles along their attacliment to the crest of the ilium, and then detaching the peri- toneum. (3) M. Baudelocque commenced his incision near the s})ine of the l)ubis, and prolonged it, parallel to I’oupart’s ligament, beyond the anteilor superior spine of the ilium on the side opposite to that on ivhich the womb was most inclined. lie did not divide the epigastric artery, but raised the i)ei’i- toneum from the iliac fossa until he exposecl the upper part of the vagina, which he opened, and then with his finger introduced into the os uteri drew the ' Trans. I’atli. Soc. Loud., vol. ii. p. 222, and vol. iv. p. 15fi. 2 Trans. Obstet. Soc. Lond., 1883. ^ Lancet, 1879.