LARYNGECTOMY. 755 favorable reports are being published of the use of cocaine-hydrochlorate as a local antesthetic, applied to the conjunctival mucous membrane—an agent said to have been pi’eviously employed to produce anpesthesia of the mucous membrane of the larynx.^ Several attempts by myself to produce anaesthesia in the larynx with this agent, have failed to control spasm in the subsequent introduction of instruments, although the sensation of contact was greatly obtunded. In the pharynx and palate the effects are much better. It may be stated parenthetically that both tincture and fluid extract of coca have, during recent years, been occasionally employed by myself as well as by others,^ to obtund sensitiveness in hypertesthesia of the mucous membrane of the pharynx and larynx. Mackenzie^ records two instances in which one touch to a tracheal growth with the electric cautery-point seemed to remove all vestige of the neoplasm within a week. The fact that in the treatment of laryngeal neoplasms, mere touching with the electric cautery simply scorches the mucous membrane, renders'"these exceptional results too uncertain to secure approval of the method. Similar caution is applicable to the use of forceps. The spasmodic closure of the chink of the glottis in the non-anpesthetized larynx, which almost invariably follows its passage by any instrument, must obstruct the view and hinder freedom of manipulation. The proper method of treating a benign tracheal neoplasm is, when prac- ticable, to incise the trachea at a point sufficiently low to expose the growth, and then to remove it by forceps, sharp spoon, or finger-nail, as may be found, most efficacious. The points of implantation should then be cauterized. In the one case to which my personal experience of this measure is limited, the only difficulty encountered was from the bleeding and the spasmodic cough- ing which rendered the operation unpleasant. It was performed with the hea<l hanging down so that the blood should not flow into the bronchi. It is well known that the tracheal bifurcation can be reached through the ordinary tracheotomy incision below the isthmus, so that a tumor might readily be attacked in almost any portion of the tube; and, as was done in one of the cases recorded in the table, there seems to be no reason why the incision should not be prolonged down to the very top of the sternum when neces- sary. In carcinoma, measures for relief are limited to palliative attempts to reduce suffering to a minimum. Tracheotomy below the seat of disease will afford temporary relief to dyspnrea from obstruction above the incision, and hypodermic injections of morpliine will subdue pain. Surgery as yet tenders no prospect of permanent relief by exsection. Laryngectomy. The successful exsection of the human larynx has been one of the greatest surgical surprises of the century. In the course of some experiments on dogs, instituted by Albers,* in 1829, to ascertain to what extent the larynx participated in respiration, he removed the entire organ from two animals. One died by hemorrhage from an accidental wound of the carotid; but the other lived for nine days, and died apparently from insuflicient nourish- ‘ Lancet, Oct. 4, 1884; Medical News, Oct. 25, 1884, p. 457.’ ^ Du Cazal, Rev. Med. Fra7n;aise et Etrangfire, 19 Nov., 1881, p. 751; also. Medical Record, April 7, 1883, p. 384. ^ Op. cit., vol. i. p. 525. Graefe uud Waltlier’s .lournal fUr Chirurgie, 1829.