973 FECAL FISTULA. in 1871, upon a cliilfl five months old, with a fistulous opening into the vagina, about the size of a crow’s (prill, or less; there was a mere dimple in the situation of the natural anus. An incision Avas made through this dimpled area, and a curved probe Avas passed in at the vaginal orifice, and felt for Avith the finger in the Avound ; it Avas then cut upon, and the edges of the incision in the bowel Avere stitched to the margins of the skin-Avound; the new orifice Avas kept dilated Avith a small bougie ; the vaginal fistula soon closed; and tAvelve months aftenvards the mother described her child’s con- dition as “just like that of any other healthy child of the same age.” The little girl Avas alive, and in all respects quite Avell, in September, 1883. AVhen the opening is into the bladder or male urethra, the sutteriug and inconvenience are generally gi'eat; the fecal matter gives rise to the symptoms and conditions of stone in the bladder, and life is jeopardized unless an arti- ficial anus is made higher up in the boAvel. The small size of the orifices, the sIoav escape of the fecal matter, and the difficulty Avith Avhich it often passes from the bowel through the opening, make these cases much more of the nature of fecal fistula than of the nature of “ artificial anus.” Non-congenital or Pafh.ological Fistidm.—(1) External injury may lead to fecal fistula in either of the folloAving Avays: («) Both the abdominal i)ari- etes and the intestine may be perforateJ, and if the gut remain in situ opposite the external Avound, adhesion taking place betAveen the Avounded gut and parietes, a fistula may follow Avithout any extravasation into the perito- neum. An artificial anus is sometimes formed in this maimer, but Avhether the fecal opening Avill be a fistula or an anus, depends on the size of tlie Avound ; an artificial anus may in a short time be coiiA^erted by the healing process into a mere fistulous opening. (Ij) Enterorrhaphy may be per- formed, tliat is, the gut may be stitched and returned to the abdomen ; but complete union not following, a fistula may result, (c) If the wounded gut be stitched to the external Avound after the manner of Scarpa, Palfyn, or John Bell, either a fistula or artificial anus may result. Here again it may be at first an “ artificial anus” and subsequently a fistula, Avhich in turn may permanently close, (d) A bloAV may cause contusion of the boAvel Avithout actual perforation, and yet a fecal fistula may result from tlie subsequent sloughing of the contused gut. (e) Contusion of the parietes may lead to abscess, and this to adhesion, and then to ulceration of the bowel, and thus to fistula. (/) Shot-Avounds of the small intestine nearly ahvays prove fatal, l>ut recovery Avith fecal fistula has occurred in some fcAv instances. Guthrie' gives a case of recovery after musket-ball Avound ; tlxe ball entered the right iliac region and came out a little beloAV the umbilicus on the opposite side ; “ a fecal bilious discharge, evidently from the small intestine, took place.” John Thomson^ mentions a case of shot-Avound in Avhich the place of entrance Avas three inches aboA^e the posterior spinous process of the left ilium, and that of exit at the riglit hy})Ochondriuni near its middle. For fifteen days a part of the food taken came out at the posterior orifice, through which two lumbrici Avere also discharged. Ao Ammiting occurred through- out the case, and recovery ensued. Besides these tAVO cases, Otis^ Avas only able to collect six instances of re- covery from shot-Avound of the small intestine, in cither ancient or modern warfare, Avith one other case besides, in Avhicli it Avas doulxtfid Avhere the intestinal opening was situated, though Otis inclined to the belief that the fecal ' Wounds and Injuries of the Abdomen, jj. 3.5. 2 Keport of Observations made in tlie British Military Hospitals in Belgium, etc., p. 105. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Reliellion, Part II. Surg. VoL, p. 74.