INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TEE AIR-PASSAGES. 708 After-treatment in Cases of TracheotOxMY for Croup or Dipetheria.— Much of the success in tracheotom}- for croup and diphtheria, depends upon the efficiency of the treatment after the operation. i\Iuch of the want of success ju’evious to 1850, or tliereabout, was due to lack of recognition of this fact. The operation and the subsequent manipulations being completed, the ])atient should be put to bed in an apartment at a temperature of not less than 70° F.; for a certain amount of chilliness usually ensues, often proportionate to the amount of hemorrhage during the operation, and to the intensity of the dyspnoea before it. The external opening should be covered with a fold of woollen gauze or scarf, straddled upon a tape or a strip of plaster applied above the wound. This protects the trachea from dust, and warms the air a little, as it is inhaled. The risk of pneumonia is thereby lessened, and the liability diminished to clogging of the tube by accumulations of desiccated crusts and fragments of false membrane. The atmosphere of the room should be kept moist as Avell as warm. The evolution of steam in the immediate vicinity of the patient will effectually warm and moisten the air he breathes. In the absence of facilities for making steam, flat sections of sponge wrung out of hot water should be kept over the tube. If reaction from tlie chill he tardy, warm, aromatic drinks should be administered, and flying sinapisms should be applied to the trunk and limbs. Under tlieir influence, restlessness subsides and sleep ensues. Sleep, indeed, often comes on before the dressings are com- pleted ; occasionally on the operating table, as soon as the canula has been inserted. Inhalations of steam and of the vapors of slaking lime are as use- ful to detach the pseudo-membrane after the operation as before it. Indeed, it deserves especial mention in passing, that I know of no one agent so useful in detaching pseudo-membrane from the larynx and trachea, as copious inspi- rations of the vapors arising from lime in the process of slaking, as suggested by Dr. Geiger,' of Dayton, Ohio. I feel assured that, in my own hands, the remedy has saved a number of children from the necessity of undergoing the operation. Its action seems altogether mechanical, small particles of lime prying u}) the edges of the partially detached shreds, so that tlie watery vapor gets under tliem and accelerates their separation. A small piece of lime in a pail of Avater is of no use. Several lumps of lime, the size of a small list, should be placed in a bucket by the side of the bed. Hot Avater should be poured upon them till they are barely covered. A funnel-shaped hood of neAVspaper, or a stout paper bag Avith one corner cut off, should be inverted over the A^essel, Avitli the outlet directed toAvards the patient’s mouth. In a feAv minutes there is a copious evolution of vapors charged Avith lime, Avhich rush through the orifice and are inhaled. The patient’s eyes should be pro- tected from the particles of lime. Cough is excited, and sometimes emesis, and with the cough large (plan titles of false membrane are expelled, if any have been present. Fiach inhalation consumes some ten or tAvelve minutes; and the process is to be repeated at intervals of half an hour, or less frequently according to the indication. Used in this manner, inhalations of lime Avill disappoint ex^iectation much less frequently than the slaking of one small fragment at a time, or the use of lime-Avater in spray. The expectorations are at first mingled Avith blood Avhich has trickled into the air-passages. They often become mucous, thick, and opaque, sometimes forming large, irregular masses. Sometimes they remain semi-transparent and fluid, though viscid. These are the characteristics of laudable expectora- tion. The trickling out, Avithout cough, of serous, grayish, fetid and non- aerated products, is an unfavorable jirognostic. If there be no cough, the lirognosis is bad; for mere drainage is insufficient to prevent gradual apnma. ' Medical and Surgical Reporter, March 24, 1866.