TREPHINING. 95 di-aining easily away. When is it too late to trephine? ISTever—since a sufficient number of cases have recovered after trephining for cerebral abscess, than which nothing can he more dangerous; indeed, I myself saved, for the time, one patient who liad ceased to breathe for some minutes, and who was only resuscitated by artilicial respiration, the use of the battery, etc.^ The grounds of my belief are found in the following statistics : Of 150 cases of preventive trephining, collected by Walsham, Briggs, and myself, only 33, or 22 per cent., proved fatal, while, on the other hand, 66 deaths, or a mortality of 52.8 per cent, followed 125 operations performed after the super- vention of symptoms indicative of brain-disease produced by the skull-injury. I freely admit that the average of cases of preventive trephining may possibly have been less severe than that of the secondary cases, but I tliink this highly improbable, since, in the severer ones, tlie patients would hardly have sur- vived until a later date. AVitli the details of the greater number of these cases I am familiar, and they go rather to prove the severity of those in Avhich the operation was preventive. It is in accord with sound surgical prin- ciples to expect that preventive trephining should succeed, since by remov- ing sources of irritation we may pi-event intracranial mischief which, once initiated, the trephine is usually powerless to relieve, sini})ly because it rarely can do more than remove one source of irritation, while others, and the more dangerous, that is, inflammation and its products, cannot be thus favorably influenced in the majoi'ity of instances. A cerebral abscess may be success- fully evacuated, but much more commonly the operatiofi fails; and the form of intracranial suppuration usually met with is diffused, not circumscribed. Therefore, I repeat, tre})hine early when possilfle, but here, as in other cases, use judgment. The indications for trephining for intracranial extravasation of blood, intracranial abscess, and depressed fracture, will all be found under their appropriate lieadings. Method of Performing the Operation.—I shall include, under the term trephining, all operations which involve removal of more or less sound bone, Fig. 835. Conical trephine. Fig. 836. whether by the trephine, bone-forceps, or Iley’s saw.^ The special instruments required are an elevatora knife with raspatory attached,^ trephines of various sizes (Figs. 835, 836), a pair of stout forceps, a trephine-brush (Fig. 837), a ' He flied .six and a half days suhseqnently from exhaustion, the result of his second attack of erysipelas within three weeks. (See page 84, supra.) ^ Scultetus’s saw, in reality. ‘ See Vol. IV. p. 450, Fig. 678. 3 See Vol. IV. p. 452, Fig. 689.