MECHAXICAL TREATMENT OF LESIONS OF THE PALATE. 569 by surgery, and a lifetime of experience has demonstrated the correctness of this statement. The velam. palati, as an organ of speech, is second to no other in importance. It is hinged like a valve to the edge of the palatine bone, while its posterior border may be elevated or depressed by the action of muscles. It can be raised until it comes into close contact with the walls of the pharynx, and thus shuts off all passage through the nares, or it can be depressed until, meeting the dorsum of the tongue, the passage through the mouth is stopped ; or, again, it may hang midway between the oral and the nasal cavities, and thus sounds emitted from tiie larynx may pass through both mouth and nose. But for the performance of these functions the velum must be free from per- foration or fissure, and must be of such length that when elevated it will meet the pharyngeal wall. If a natural velum without a cleft has not this require- ment, it cannot perform fully the function of articulation. It would interfere as much with perfect articulate speech as if it wei’e fissured, perforated, or in any other way defective. Articulate speech is dependent in its perfection not only upon the integrity of the velum, but also upon the activity of the pharyn- geal muscles. The closing of the posterior nares is due equally to the eleva- tion of the velum palati and to a simultaneous advancement of the phaiyngeal wall. This function of the constrictor muscles of the pharynx is seldom recognized. The pharynx is an important organ of speech in normal articula- tion, and in the effort to articulate with abnormal organs it develops an activity and a power at times truly wondei-ful. Indeed, in some instances the superior constrictor of tlie pharynx, in conjunction with the tongue, has, in cases of absence of the ])alate, enabled the patient to make many sounds which in normal articulation are dependent iqion the integrity of the latter. The failure of surgery has not been in its inability to bring the edges of the divided velum together, and to get union, hut it has been in the fact, before pointed out, that the newly formed palate Avhieh results from staphyloraphy is always too short, that its posterior edge does not and cannot be made to reach the pharynx, and that the speech will necessarily be defective, in spite of the operation, save in some extraordinary cases. As an operation, it is with justifiahle pride that the surgeon may view the result of his work in seeing a complete union throughout the entire length of the fissure, including the uvula, and apparently a normal septum where before was a gaping orifice ; and thus he may lose sight of, first, the fact that this new palate has very little muscular power as compared with the normal organ, owing to the injury which its muscles have received in the operation, and, second, that it is de- fective in dimensions, because there never was tissue enough to make a velum which would bridge the chasm in both its breadth and length. The origin of the fissure is in lack of a development of sufficient material to come together and make a perfect septum, and no division of the muscles or stretching of the tissues subsequently ivill make up for developmental deficiency. A successful operation, surgically considered, has often been not only valueless but productive of positive harm. The neiv velum becomes a rigid curtain which splits the column of sound in its ui)ward ascent, and ren- ders it less manageable even than it was before. In early life a patient Avitli cleft palate acquires a certain control over his voice, and a measure of articu- lation which a non-elastic and immovable curtain deprives him of. As operative surgery fails, prothetic surgery comes to the rescue. Where nature is deficient slie may be supplemented by art, and an organ whose func- tion has been destroyed liy accident, disease, or want of development, can have that function restored by })roperly ada[>ted apparatus. The restoration of speech to a person who has once possessed that faculty, and who has lost it through a destruction of the palate, is comparatively easy; but to confer the faculty of