56 INJURIES OP THE HEAD, As far as the brain itself was concerned, there was not even a speck of extravasation either on its surface or in its substance, the consistence of which was perfectly natural. But the intense congestion of the vessels of the brain gave rise to a manifest alteration in the color of its structures, its cut surfaces being thickly studded with the minutest blood-points, from whence specks of fluid blood oozed upon gentle pressure.' What, then, are we to conehide from such evidence as this ? Surely, that there is probably no such thing as “cerebral vibration without visible lesion.” Certainly my own clinical experience of cerebral concussion has led me to believe tliat there is some brain-lesion in every case of concussion, however slight it may he. Where no actual extravasation of blood takes ydace, the paresis of the vascular walls, which, as Duret has shown, follows the primary spasm, produces a congestion which may be evanescent—perhaps of only a few hours’ duration—but which, I think, always exists. Careful scrutiny of the histories and post-mortem records of an extended series of cases, has convinced me that in all cases of so-called concussion of the brain, we have in reality either a disseminated congestion of the organ, or contusion of some portions of its structure. Even in the slightest cases, we may have, as just shown, intra-arachnoid extravasation and ecchymosis of the hrarn-suhstance. It is time that the surgical mind should disembarrass itself from the old magisterial views so long taught; since from erroneous views of pathology, had practice is sure to ensue. The later symptoms of concussion usually detailed, are in reality those of either congestion, contusion, or laceration of the hrain-suhstance—perhaps of all three. In accordance with the parts chiefly injured, so will be, in all probability, the symptoms, although no finely drawn diagnosis can commoidy he made, owing to the ])robably extended nature of the lesions, and the interdependence of the various portions of the brain, both anatomically and physiologically. Erom these remarks, it must be clear that no table of distinctive symptoms can he given, whereby concussion and compression may be differentiated ; since the so-called s}unptoms of concussion are really those of widely differ- ing lesions of the intracranial contents, varying from a transient paretic congestion to cerebral ecchymosis and laceration. The exceeding variety, in fact the absolute want of constancy, }»resented by the sj’mptoms of concussion, as to the pupils, the sensorium, etc., clearly indicates that we are dealing with different structural conditions, which the post-mortem room has demon- strated over and over again ; yet a recent writer describes as a case of fatal concussion, one in which blood extravasation was discovered in the medulla oblongata. Symptoms of Concussion.—Should the lesions he entirely or chiefly confined to mere temporary circulatory changes, tlie patient will probably be either unconscious, or only giddy, for a few moments after a head injury ; will get up spontaneously, or with slight assistance ; will experience bewilderment of mind ; will be unable to collect his thoughts ; will have a pale face; and will experience facial sweating, nausea, and perhaps vomiting. In a short time these symptoms will disappear, and the patient will he able to walk, with perhaps slight tremulousness of the limbs; and in a few hours he will he well. This is the rule; but the reader will recall a case just cited, where, with much less evidence of cerebral injury, marked contusion of the brain- tissue existed. In severe cases, however, we have a much more serious condition. The patient is utterly insensible—pulseless, perhaps—with pallor of countenance, the onl}^ evidence of life being a hardly perceptible respiratory effort. The surface is cold, the limbs relaxed, the pupils normal or dilated, or one dilated * Denonvilliers, Compendinm de Cliirurgie, tome ii. p. 606. (Hewett.)