784 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. eftbrt; while in marked instances, or during spasm of the antagonists, they cannot he abducted at all. (Fig. 1103.) During inspiration, the vocal bands are drawn so strongly downwards in closer and closer approximation, that some- times the mucous membrane passes the edges of the fibi’ous tissue—which then become very prominent beneath it—and vibrates during the stridor. In expiration, the vocal bands are driven upwards in a vaulted manner, and Fig. 1103. Fig. 1104. Bilateral paralysis of posterior crico-arytenoid. Inspi» Bilateral paralysis of posterior crico-arytenoid muscle, ration. Patient ■wearing a canula. Expiration, Patient wearing a cannla. the elliptic or acutely triangular chink of the glottis undergoes enlarge- ment, so that the air passes freely out of the larynx. (Fig. 1104.) Sometimes the picture resembles that of paralysis of the thyro-arytenoids during phona- tion. In some instances^ unilateral paralysis precedes tbe bilateral. Bilateral paralysis sometimes so closely resembles actual adhesion of the opposing faces of the arytenoid cartilages, as to render the diagnosis uncertain from inspection only; while, in its turn, the latter condition may be mistaken for [laralysis.^ There is no loss of voice in either unilateral or bilateral paralysis, although its quality may be impaired; but there is a peculiar mode of utterance in bilateral }>aralysis, due to interruptions by prolonged stridulent inspirations. There is no dyspnoea in unilateral paralysis except on slight exertion, or from iutercurrent disease. There is great dyspnoea in bilateral paralysis—extreme, labored, and stridulent in inspiration ; moderate or unnoticed in expiration, unless on exertion—while the inspiratory stridor, especially during sleep, may be so very loud as to be heard in adjoining apartments, or throughout the house. Paralysis of the crico-thyroid muscles [tensors^ Mackenzie) is indicated merely by unevenness in the outline of the edge and upper surface of the vocal band, wdiich is usually congested, and sometimes exhibits pearlish refraction. Should these indications be so slight as to create doubt in diagnosis, reliance is placed mostly upon a lack of precision in phonation—a peculiar, dissonant slide occuiTing occasionally or frequently during conversation—and upon the fatigue or even pain produced by prolonged vocal effort. Paralysis of the thyro-arytenoid muscles^ the regulators of tension {relaxors, Mackenzie ; distenders, Elsberg)—Irdian-boiv paralysis (German writers)—one of the most frequent forms of laryngeal paralysis, is recognized by approxima- tion of the vocal bands posteriorly, with central enlargement of the chink of the glottis, the orifice being elliptic when the paralysis is bilateral (Fig. 1105), and"lndian-bow shaped when unilateral (Fig. 1106). This paralysis is some- times associated with paralysis of the arytenoid muscle, as indicated by * Cohen, op. cit., p. 654. 2 Sidlo, cited by Ziemssen (Cyclopredia of the Practice of Medicine, vol. vii. p. 969). See Luxa- tion of tlie Larynx, supra, p. 662.