25G INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. Secondary Glaucoma.—In the former varieties, the destructive hardness, with its long list of fatal consequences, seems to he 'primary. In this it develops in the course of numerous other diseases, and is hence called secondary. A frequent causal connection exists between increased tension and synechia anterior from perforating ulcers of the cornea. Luxation of the lens, spontaneous or traumatic, almost surely leads to glaucomatous mani- festations, probably through irritation of the iris and the choroidal tract; and so may fragments of a broken-up lens. Total synechia posterior, cutting otf communication between the two aqueous chambers, generally leads to destruction of sight from glaucoma. Serous iridochoroiditis is very apt to lead to secondary glaucoma. Intra-ocular tumors of all kinds give rise to increased tension at a certain stage of their growth. In all forms of ectasia of the eyeball, congenital or not, leading to great enlargement of the eye— hydrophthalmus—the sight is surely destroyed in the end by glaucoma. In such cases, enormous excavations of the optic disk are usually found. Hemorrhagic Glaucoma.—The most hopeless form of glaucoma, primary or secondary, is the hemorrhagic. The retinal hemorrhages are apt to take place suddenly in the central region and around the optic disk. At first it is diffi- cult to foresee what the ecchymoses indicate, hut the increased hardness tells the story. Such hemorrhages, often seemingly without cause, in persons of advanced years, are very apt to be the forerunners of this most pernicious and unmanageable form of glaucoma. Treatment op Glaucoma.—Every glaucomatous eye, when left to itself, terminates in hopeless blindness. The immortal discovery of Von Graefe made an epoch in the history of human sorrow. Till iridectomy was found to be a reasonably certain remedy for the morbid hardness of the globe, but the one sad fate awaited every such case. But we know as little still about the way in which this operation permanently reduces the iutra-ocular tension, as we do of the immediate cause of the increased pressure. The success of the treatment, however, in the majority of cases, is not now disputed. Since that forward stride in the therapeutics of this process was made, it has been discovered that eserine and pilocarpine, in addition to their action in con- tracting the pupil, possess the power of reducing the tension of glaucoma, and, in rare cases, permanently. Usually, however, the action is transient, and in the chronic fonns not even temporary relief is afforded ; so that we are forced to fall back upon surgical treatment at last. The earlier iridectomy is practised, the greater is the certainty of saving useful sight; hence the immense importance of an early diagnosis. Every surgeon and physician should he able to make the diagnosis promptly, and thus avoid delay. The section, for cosmetic and visual reasons, is generally made upwards, so that the mutilation of the iris shall be covered by the upper lid. An incision, of from 6 to 8 mm., is to be made at the sclero-corneal junction, as near the periphery as possible. This is best done by a Graefe’s cataract knife, especially where the chamber is very shallow, as it certainly will be in many cases. The puncture and counter-puncture must be made as in the incision for extraction of cataract, and the point of the knife closely Avatched as it traverses the chamber, close in front of the iris. If the iris prolapses on completing the section, it may be seized by the fine, toothed forceps, draAvn Avell out, and held steadily till cut oft' with scissors close to the sclera. Two snips are required, beginning at one end of the incision and finishing at the other, the assistant pulling the iris a little tighter after the first snip. The object is to excise a broad portion of the iris reaching quite to the periphery. Should no prolapsus occur, the closed forceps must be passed carefully into the chamber,