223 DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. treatment will be very long, and will rerjuire great watchfulness on both sides, they go to a more ignorant or less scrupulous surgeon, or to a brazen quack, who promises a certain and speedy cure. Such patients often try every silly thing they hear of, and express surprise, at last, that they do not get well! Peripatetic patients, with granular sore eyes, do not furnish good cases for a novice who wants to make a reputation. Great skill and eternal vigilance can alone guide to safe recovery. Ugly and fatal complications beset the long and crooked road that leads to relief, and few there be that walk Avisely and patiently therein. The discriminating use of a few well- knoAvn remedies is the secret of successful treatment. Tlie management of these cases must be very largely hygienic, as Avell as therapeutic. Cleanli- ness, great attention to the skin, diet, and clothing, exercise in the open air, rest of the eyes from close Avork, regular habits, temperance, and avoidance of all knoAvn causes of irritation, are conditions that must be enforced, other- Avise no treatment can avail. Whatever conduces to the Itest health, is necessary to speedy recovery from any disease. If the farmer continues his laborious life, the student his studies, the good liA^er his fast Avays, the in- temperate his Avild career, no science can saA-e the eyes. The thorough obedience and cooperation of the })atient must be secured. Except Avith free livers, restriction of diet and severe ant iphlogistic treatment are not required, and are often injurious. Healthy, nutritious food at regular meals, orderly exercise in the open air, and a general course of tonics, are usually indicated. The loml treatment of granular lids is guided by tAvo indications. The first, that of suliduing the inflammatory reaction and keeping it Avithin safe bounds. The second, that of producing temporary local stimulation, and thus promoting the sIoav and safe absorption of the morbid deposits. Their destruction by cauterization is not to be thought of. In the first stages of acute trachoma, and during the inflammatory relapses that are so trouble- some and characteristic, local anodynes and sootliing remedies alone are per- missible. There is a natural tendency, under favorable surroundings, for the inflammation to subside after a few days or Aveeks. It should be allayed by mild treatment; not aggravated, prolonged, and Tendered moi-e dangerous to sight by Adolent applications. If tenderness to light, Aveeping, spasmodic closure of tlie lids, pain, and marked ciliary injection are present, the solution of atropia, four grains to the ounce, dropped in the e3’cs, from three to six times in tAventy-four hours, is nearly ahvays beneficial. The atropia instillation should be continued till these symptoms are overcome, abating its frequency as they subside. Cold-Avater liathing of the closed lids, at frequent intervals, in robust people, and during the acute stage, is grateful aud useful. The regular use of cold compresses, for a fcAV hours at a time, helps to sul>- due the excessive local temperature. In the chronic stages, liOAA^ever, the acute relapses are often better controlled by warm fomentations that hasten the suppurative tendency, permitting astringents to be safely used. Moderate purgation once or tAvice a Aveek, and opiates at night t(A ease pain and promote sleep, are valuable aids. Either from the start, or, better, after a feAV days, Avhen the intolerance of light and Aveeping have given Avay to more or less mucous or nmco-purulent secretion, a solution of boracic acid, five grains to the ounce, or of biborato of sodium of the same strength, may lie dropped freel}^ into the qyes three times a day. These solutions arc someAvhat astrin- gent and scarcely at all irritating. To }irevent painfid adhesion of the lids at night, their edges may be greased Avith vaseline, fresh butter, or lard. If keratitis sets in, as it is always prone to do, Avith abrasions of the epi- thelium, patches of infiltration, aliscesses, and ulceration, tlie atropine should be applied oftener, and the other treatment kept up more rigidly. With this