770 INJURIES AND DISEASES OE THE AIR-PASSAGES. From tlie records referred to in the first of the above tables, and from study of some of the reports in detail, it appears evident that complete laryngectomy can be performed without sacrifice of life, but that every ope- ration places life in peril; and that a large number of the patients succumb within a period so brief, that their early death is attributable to the opera- tion and to nothing else. Of the deaths reported, 26 occurred within the first eight days, and 5 more within the second eight days—more than one- third of all the patients subjected to laryngectomy having thus succumbed within little more than a fortnight. Death within the first few days occurs from shock, from hemorrhage, or from pneumonia. Very few have succumbed to shock, and only two to hemorrhage; but very many have perished from pneumonia. The occur- rence of pneumonia is largely attributed to the escape of food, blood, and morbid products into the air-passages, although every available precaution has been taken to prevent this by firmly tamjionning the wound with anti- septic plugs. If an inference may be suggested from what I have observed in various other operations upon the neck, it is that surgical interference of any kind in the cervical region entails a risk of pneumonia, even though tlie air-})assage be not opened. I have seen it follow extirpation of the thyroid gland, extirpation of neoplasms, and even mere exploratory incision. The reduction of temperature to Avhich the pneumogastric nerve is subjected, may lead to pneumonia, especially when it has been rendered additionally sensitive by manipulations within the wound. Some laryngectomies have consumed from one to three hours in their performance—an ordeal to the pneumogastric nerve cpiite sufficient, to my mind, to account for an early pneumonia, independently of direct sepsis. The period of danger from pneumonia does not seem to exceed two weeks, unless the conditions are exceptional. This important fortnight of tribula- tion safely bridged, the life of the patient may be regarded as tolerably secure up to tlie fourth month. Then death from recurrence begins to be imminent, and, according to circumstances, will take place within an additional period varying from a few weeks to several mouths, or to more than a year. Complete laryngectomy involves great risk of death by pneumonia, future respiration through an artificial aperture, temporary nourishment by the stomach-tuhe, and possibly utter inability to speak without the aid of an artificial substitute for tlie larynx, adjusted to the tracheal canula. Unilateral laryngectomy does not necessarily involve dependence upon any of these mechanical aids. Indications for the Operation.—As will be seen from the preceding tables, of some ninety complete exsections of the laiynx, seventy-eight or eighty have been performed for carcinoma,' four for sarcoma, one for lympho- sarcoma, two for papillomata, one for lujms, one for perichondritis, and one for cicatricial syphilitic stenosis. Of the thirteen unilateral exsections, six have been performed for carcinoma, two for sarcoma, and one each for pericliondritis and for enchondroma of the neck. The disease in the remain- ing three has not yet been recorded. It would be desirable to select for special consideration the operations upon carcinomas strictly intrinsic, and contrast the final results with the final results in similar cases let alone or suhjected to jialliative tracheotomy; and to make a similar study of the comparative results in carcinomas which have involved adjacent structures and lymphatic glands. Prof. Czerny writes me ' Included among these are the cases in wliich the liistology of the tumor was doubtful, since the operations were undertaken under the opinion that the disease was carcinomatous.