DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. oil that in which the sublingual tissues are divided before the section of the tongue, whilst if hemorrhage should occur on completion of the section of the tongue, that organ would be very much in the way of the application of a ligature. Mr. Harwell has introduced into practice a form of wire for the kraseur which promises to be very serviceable. It consists of a strand of ISTewall’s patent wire rope, made of untempered steel, with a thread in its centre, and is more flexible than any steel wire. Regnoli, in 1838, devised a submental operation which consists in dividing the floor of the mouth close to the lower jaw, from one facial artery to the other, so as to allow of the tongue being drawn down and fully exposed. It may then be removed with the knife or kraseur; but if the knife be employed, care should be taken to divide only one lingual artery at a time. I have assisted in the performance of this operation more than once, and think that for slight cases it is an unnecessarily severe proceeding, and has no advantage over the intra-buccal method ; while for the more serious cases in which it is necessary to go close to the hyoid bone, it has the drawback that the surgeon is working in a hole where it is very difficult to see and secure a bleeding artery. Sedillot and 8yme were the fii’st to divide the lower jaw in order more thoroughly to extirpate the tongue. The operation is a very severe one, but affords fhe only satisfactory method of dealing with cases of extensive disease of the tongue, iu which the floor of the mouth is involved. An incision in the median line of the lower lip, prolonged to the hyoid bone, will allow of the dissection of the li[) from the lower jaw for about a cpiarter of an inch on each side. AVith a drill the bone can then be perforated on each side of the median line, and about midway in the depth of the jaw, so as to admit of the two halves being subsequently drawn together with wire. The jaw is next to be divided exactly in the median line with a fine saw, whicli may advantageously have its hantlle raised above the level of the blade, so as to be out of the way of the patient’s chest. The advantage of dividing the bone in the median line is that the teeth are not interfered with, whereas in Se- dillot’s method of dividing the jaw by a > cut, it is necessary to sacrifice all the incisor teeth. In addition to the wire employed to lund the halves of the jaw together, the action of the muscles tends to maintain the parts in relation and to press the halves of the jaw together, rendering tlie notching of tlie bone an unnecessary complication. If tlie section lie completed with the bone-forceps when about half the tliickness of the bone has been divided with the saw, the slight irregularity thus produced assists also in maintaining the parts in apposition. The halves of the jaw being held asunder with hooks, the operator cuts the genio-hyo-glossi muscles from the jaw with a pair of scissors, leaving the attachments of the genio-hyoid muscles. ATith the fore- finger and scissors, the tongue can then be dissected up from the floor of the mouth, with the sublingual glands and mucous membrane, until the hyoid bone is reached, firm traction being made witli a stout string passed through the tip. The tongue being then drawn down, the palato-glossi muscles form- ing the anterior pillars of the fauces will be put on the sti’etch, and must be divided with scissors, after wliich a handled needle should lie passed through the tongue close to the hyoid bone, and the wire of the kraseur then adjusted. The surgeon should be prepared with a handled needle and stout thi’ead, to transfix and hold the small remnant of tissue left attached to tlie liyoid bone, should the breathing be embarrassed by the epiglottis and base of the tongue falling backward. In my ex})erience this is much more likely to hap})en when a considerable portion of the tongue' is left, tlian when the section is made far back, and the dilficulty seems to arise from the weight of the piece