DISEASES OF THE MASTOID PROCESS. 335 comparatively harmless when interpreted in the light of the anatomical rela- tions which I have just described. The phenomena to which I refer are these: A large swelling develops rather rapidly behind the ear of an infant, who has been fretful and feverish for a few days. There may or may not have been a slight discharge from the are; but if there have been a dis- charge, it will have ceased before the swelling makes its appearance. From the fluctuation, which is readily discoverable, from the inflamed appearance of the neighboring skin, and from the elevation of the body-temperature, it becomes reasouabl}" certain that the swelling represents an abscess. An in- cision is then made, and the correctness of the diagnosis is established; the recovery that follows is rapid and complete. I have had the opportunity of examining the ear in two or three such cases, and have satisfied myself that the pathology of these abscesses is simply this : The resistance offered to the pus. accumulating in the cavities of the middle ear, happens to be less in the direction of the mastoid integuments than in that of the mernhraua tympani, and the pus accordingly forces a way for itself in this direction rather than through the tissues of the drum-membrane. The abscess is not, as in adult life, an indication of a severe and unchecked inflammation of the middle ear, but simply a revelation of the peculiarly free communication which happens to exist between the antrum and the outer surface of the mastoid bone. The absence of any marked swelling of tlie walls of the audi- tory canal shows clearly, in these cases, that the pus has not travelled out- ward—as we occasionally see it travel in older individuals-—between the bone and the skin of the external meatus. The anatomical relations of the antrum, in infantile life, liave other impor- tant bearings of a practical nature. In tiie first place, the outer bony wall of this cavity is quite easily broken, at this period of life, by moderately firm pressure Fig- 899. with some hard instrument. It is therefore easy to penetrate from without into the an- trum, whenever the condition of the ear seems to call for such a procedure. In the next place, counter-irritation lichind the ear, in quite young children, often produces promptly beneficial effects upon a sluggish inflammation of the middle ear. The explanation of tliis fact may be sought for in this peculiar near- ness of the antrum to the skin covering the mastoid process, and in the intimate vascular and nervous relations that exist between the two regions. The mastoid process of a child, four or five years of age, already presents all the essential features of that belonging to a full-grown adult. It is smaller, however, and the bone sidistance is still somewhat less dense and firm fhan it is in adult life. Fven in its fully developed state, the mastoid bone wifi be found to vary greatly in size in different individuals. I can give no exact measurements, as the limits of the mas- toid portion of the temporal bone are not sharply defined. I have a specimen, however, in which the distance between the upper and lower limits of the mastoid cells measures an inch and three quarters, while horizontally the extreme limits are an inch and a quarter apart. This speci- Mastoid process of adult. Transverse, vertical section.