DISEASES OF THE TEAK, PASSAGES. 281 site ends of the same instrument, with a flat surface in the centre, as in the double probes. The length of each probe, from the flat middle, should be about live and one-half cm. The probe is gently curved, so as the more readily to pass through the sac and nasal duct, without inconvenience from the prominent Fig. 880. Williams’s bulb-pointed probes. brow. It is impossible for such an expansion, when once fairly in the sac or bony canal, to pierce the mucous membrane and make a false passage. When the stricture is reached and the resistance overcome, the yielding is sudden, and indicates its exact seat and extent. If the strictures are multiple, the seat and existence of each are determined. The smaller bulb is introduced first. If the sac is not opened enough to admit it, the notching can be repeated. Great care should be taken to get surely and fairly into the sac with the bulbous end. Tlien the probe is turned vertically, and pushed gently and slowly downwards in the course of the nasal duct. When the obstacle is reached, a little patience and slowly increased pressure will suddenly triumph over it, and tlie probe will then pass readily down into the nose, where it is firmly arrested by the solid floor of the inferior meatus. The instrument is then gently withdrawn and the larger bulb passed through in the same way. If the stricture is very rigid and the canal almost closed, some blood will escape from the nose, but otherwise none may be seen. This part of the oj)eration, if skilfully executed, gj-eatly simplifles and expedites the after-treatment. Generally it is better to do nothing more than keep the opening into the sac free for a week or more. If there is much discharge, the sac should be vvashed out each day with a syringe fz’om above. A dentist’s rubber syringe bent at right angles near the end, with a smooth point, and tepid water, are all that is needed. If, when the nozzle is fairly in the sac and directed downwards, the water does not readily flow into the nose and throat, there is something wrong, and the parts should be re-explored. I venture to say, from a large experience, that if in all cases of dilated, suppurating tear sac, with or without fistula, this much were thoroughly well done, and the rest left to nature, most of the patients would be so much benefited as to feel satisfied with the result. In some the troubles will come back, but very seldom, if ever, in the old, aggravated form. In Stilling’s mode of treatment, the stricture is deeply incised in different directions, and little or nothing more usually done. Of course, if there is syphilitic or scrofu- lous caries, with the diseased sac, no very satisfactory result can ever be obtained. In the hope of securing better results in the long run, I have for many years used the bent silver styles, worn in the duct for several montlis. They are made of pure, virgin silver, four and one half cm. long, slightly conical at each end, and of different sizes, varying from one to two mm. in diameter. One end is Izent into a modei’ate curve, leaving the straight part three or three and one-half cm. long. Close to the beginning curve the stjde is again bent outwards, so that when inserted, and the hook turned forwards over the