258 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. Again I would warn against the unpardonable sin of mistaking glaucoma for cataract, and of using atropine in its treatment. Strabismus. Definition and Varieties.—Strabismus consists in an inability to fix both eyes on the same point, at the same moment, not due to paralysis. The two eyes move freely together or separately, but one deviates constantly in the same direction and to the same degree. Convergent scpiint, in which one eye turns too far inwards while the otlier fixes, is the most frequent variety. Divergent strabismus, in which the deviation is outwai-ds, is next in frequency. Deflection uinocmls or downwards, is of rare occurrence. Strabismus is a deformity, and excludes the benefits of binocular vision. The constant direc- tion and degree of deviation in all possible positions of the eyes, establish the most important diagnostic difference between squint and faulty fixation from paralysis. In the one, the erratic eye, when solicited, turns freely in every direction. In the other, it cannot he budged in the direction of the para- lyzed muscle. Let us assume a convergent squint, in the left eye. Cover the right with a card and compel the faulty eye to act. It will fix and follow the finger wherever normal fixation is possible. But the right eye will now squint behind the card. This forced, secondary deviation will be exactly the same in direction and quantity, as the primary. But simultaneous fixation is nowhere possible. In paralysis, binocular fixation may be easy in all direc- tions but one, and the secondary displacement will be much greater than the primary. In no part of the body are delicate distuibances of muscular equi- librium so quickly detected, and so annoying, as in the rotary muscles of the eyes. Tlie constant double vision cannot be ignored. Should a given convergence be due to paresis of the external rectus, not only distressing diplopia, but more or less limitation in the outward movements of the eye will be detected. As before, suppose that the left eye converges when both are open. Cut off the right with a card, and tlie left will follow the finger readily, except when moved to the left. "While soliciting movement in this direction, and without avail, notice the right eye behind the card. It will turn in excessively, almost burying itself behind the nose. Both eyes being open, the patient will see double in ail points to the left, but single to the right. Instinctively, he learns to avoid the horrible diplopia, bj" turn- ing the head constantly to the left, thus bringing objects to his right. In deviation from paralysis, there are constant errors of projection and conse- quent giddiness, except when the faulty eye is closed. If the patient tries to walk with the perfect eye closed, he will stagger. In the case assumed, close the right eye, and holding your finger to the left of the patient, tell him to touch it quickly with his index finger. lie vdll constantly thrust to the left of it. The degree of strabismus may vary from a mere cast, to a deviation of ten mm. or more, constituting a hideous deformity. The linear deviation may be measured with sufficient accuracy, as follows: Shut the non-squinting eye, and request the patient to fix your fingei-, steadilj' held about ten inches in front of his nose. Then, with a pen, mark with ink the point of the lower lid that corresponds to the centre of the ]uipil. This done, open the other eye and tell him to fix the same finger, held in the same position. The eye will now deviate and an ink spot is again made to correspond to the centre of the pupil. The distance between these two iidv spots will be, in millimetres, the linear deviation. In the earlier periods of strabismus, when it is often inter-