115-2 HEUMA. 1. M. W., aged 52. Large, right, scrotal hernia, of twenty-five years’ standing. April 24, 1872, strangulation violent ; herniotomy ; a quarter of a pound of omentum removed, hut not the sac, which was tied up with ligature-threads and left. A slough in the scrotum, and abscess, followed ; no bad symptoms otherwise ; [>atient seen again, wearing light truss aud quite comfortable ; no spray. 2. E. B., aged 21. Bight scrotal hernia; taxis ineffectual; herniotomy; sac tied, but not removed ; no spray ; date of operation, March 23, 1873. Shown afterM'ards, in August, at a meeting of the British Medical Association, in London. Heard of seven years afterwards, as having had some return of the rupture, which was easily kept up by a truss. 3. W. M., aged 27. Bight, scrotal, congenital hernia ; strangulation ; herniotomy without spray, catgut ligature, sac removed, December 10, 1873; no bad symptoms; discharged January 24 ; seen again in April 19 ; no bulge or sign of weakness. 4. H. 8., aged 19. Left, scrotal, strangulated hernia of two years’ standing; sac tied with catgut and removed, no spray, November 22, 1878 ; not seen since ; a few months afterwards quite well. 5. T. B., aged 2G. Large, right, scrotal hernia, irreducible from omental adhesion ; strangulation of bowel reduced by taxis. Operation at once for radical cure under spray. July 13, 1878 ; sac and thickened omentum tied with catgut and removed ; stump of omentum fixed to iutenial ring ; progress very favorable ; no suppuration. Discharged cured, wearing no truss, August 3, 1878. Has not shown himself since; parts very hard ;uid resisting when last seen. G. L. S. L., aged 23. Bight testicle in groin, with an irreducible omental hernia and occasional sti-angulation of bowel; violent strangulation requiring herniotomy, done under spray, with gauze di’essing; testicle, sac, and omentum removed after catgut ligature, November 13, 1878; able to go out of doors, December 14, no bad symp- toms whatever, no suppuration. Examined in May, 1881 ; only a slight bulge appa- rent at site of deep ring. No trouble ; light truss. 7. J. G., aged 44. Left scrotal hernia, large, of twenty-eight years’ duration. A hard drinker, liad had delirium tremens several times. No albumen or sugar in urine. Had had strangulation twice previously. Herniotomy, November 10, 1878; sac re- moved ; spray and gauze dressing. Directly after operation (in which very little blood was lost), symptoms of delirium tremens set in, and the day after, those of pneu- monia, followed by death, November 14. In this case, the radical cure was attem}>ted at the patient’s earnest request, on account of the trouble and sutfering wliicli lie endured witli the truss, and the fretpient recurrence of strangulation. There were no serious local com- plications in this case. The omentum was not removed, and the bowel was uninjured by the strangulation. The autopsy showed no signs whatever of local or general ])eritonitis. The neck of the sac was found to have been tied flush with the (leritoneum, and all the parts concerned were unaltered by any morbid action; the serous membrane at the tied neck of the sac was slightly adherent. In Case 0, the strangulation was very severe and painful, and the steps of the operation very diflicult, as they always are when an nndesccnded testis is concerned. The progress of the case afterwards was absolutely free from bad symptoms. In the first four of the above cases, antiseptic carbolic precautions were carefully observed, but neither spray nor gauze was used. I have, howevei’, from observation of abdominal surgery, little doubt that in these cases, as in all herniotomies, the Idsterian method of dressing gives considerably increased security in preventing putrefaction and sup[>uration, and also in diminishing or entirely preventing surgical fever, and in lessening the period of conva- lescence. The amount of success in this procedure Avill depend in great measure upon a proper selection of cases. If after o2)ening the sac in the necessary