MORBID GROWTHS OP THE LARYNX. 725 they appear due to local irritation during inflammations of the larynx, whether idiopathic, deuteropathic, or traumatic. Thus they follow simple laryngitis and, to a less extent, sypldlitic and tuhei’culous laryngitis; the laryngitis of the exanthemata, measles especially; that of whooping-cough, crou[>, and diph- theria; that caused by inhalations of irritating matters; and that produced by local injuries. They are much more frequently single than multi}de. The anterior portions of the larynx are the seat of morbid growths much more frequently than the posterior. Males sutler in far greater numbers tlian females. Some growths are congenital. Children acquire them at all ages ; adults chiefly between the third and fifth decennia. My own experience includes their appai'ent development at the extremes of earliest infancy and the ninth decennium. Fully two-thirds of all recorded eases of laryngeal neoplasm, are reported as papillomata. Of 100 cases of benign growth submitted to treatment by Mackenzie,* 67 were so considered; of 66 consecutive cases of growth of all kinds reported from my own 2)ractice,^ 48 were known or inferred to he papil- lomata. FauveF reported 206 out of a total of 300. Most otlier observers of large experience present analogous results. Elsberg,^ however, reports hut 163 papillomata out of 310 morbid growths. The varieties of benign morbid growth, reported as having been detected in the larynx, inchnie papilloma, fibroma, myxoma, adenoma, lynqjhorna, angeioma, cystoma, lipoma, and ecchondrorna. Some growths are composite. Fatty, colloid, and amyloid degenerations have been noted in some instances. I’apillomata are usually sessile, and frecpiently multiple. Other neoplasms are usually single. The size of laryngeal neoplasms varies from that of small seeds to that of masses large enough to occlude the larynx and project above it. WTule tliey may occiq)y any portion of the larynx, they have been noted with greatest frequency upon the vocal bands. This may be partly due to the existence of the vascular papilbe discovered on the edges of these bands by Coyne,*’ and partly a result of the vascularity maintained by their active movements in phonation. Symptoms.—Tlie general symptoms, much alike whatever the histological elements of the neoplasm, depend chiefly on its location, size, and cliaracter of attachment. Home growths do not give rise to any special symptoms. When located upon an important structure, when comparatively large, and when attached by a pedicle, they produce inqiairment of voice, impediment to res[)iration, ditfieulty of swallowing, cough, and j)ain. Dyspkonia occurs only upon mechanical interference with due vibrations of the vocal bands. Thus, a fair voice may be maintained when a large growth is some distance from these structures, while hoarseness may be [iroduced by a very small one upon them, beneath them, or between them, and intermittent hoarseness by a ])edunculated growth, wbich interferes occasionally, or at frequent intervals, the voice failing and recovering itself several times,perhaps,during the enuncia- tion of a single sentence. The alteration in voice may be limited to a certain l)ortion of tbe register, Avben the growth occupies an acoustic node, and double voice, dipldlionia., may result from symmetrical growths on tbe two bands, dividing the chink of the glottis into two portions. Aphonia., or absolute loss of voice, does not occur unless actual closure of the glottis has become im])racticable. Tbe voice during conversation is often unequal, or by turns hoarse, shrill, or muffled. It usually presents a peculiar dull quality, ’ Es.say on Growtlis in the Larynx. London, 1871. l>isease.s of the Throat, j). 415. New York, 1872. ® Traite I’ratiqne des Maladies du Larynx, p. 190. Paris, 187(J. Arehives of Laryngology, j). 1. 1880. ^ ReoherL'hes sur i’Anatoniie de la Mnqueuse Laryngee, p. 21. Paris, 1874.