597 TUMORS OF THE NECK. Many masses may be adherent to one another, but they are readily shelled out when the overlying parts are divided In the general form of the alfection, there will apiiear in other regions, as the armpit, groins, etc., similar growths to that present in the neck, while the spleen, liver, and other organs, may also present tumors of like structure. When the blood has become so altered in composition as to present a great excess of white corpuscles, then we have that “■ leucocy- tlRemia” established which makes its presence so evident in the complexion. It is beyond our present art to differentiate the two forms of l^unphoma where the growths are small and undeveloped, and even to distinguish them from chronic adenitis, can at times be but a happy guess. When the rapid growth, soft consistence, multiplicity, hossy contour, freedom from pain, and absence of all scrofulous taint, become apparent, then the idea of mere adenitis drops out of view, and, as the affection quickly progresses and shows itself in various parts, either internally or externally, and the general system begins to suffer, then the diagnosis of the special form of lymiihoma present can no longer Ije doubted. In “ white-blood” disease, an exanunation of the blood will of course demonstrate its condition. It is on the clinical history that our chief reliance must be placed, for though various instruments have been invented for securing a minute ])ortion of the tumor for microscopic examination, such an examination could iiot furnish confidence in forming a judgment. Tlie photograpli here copied (Fig. lOlG) was taken from a east in my possession, and is historically interesting, as it is one of those which were Fig. lOlG, Fig. 1017, Lymphoma of the neck. (From a cast by Allan Burns.) Lymphoma ot tlio neck. Pi.esection of the parts seen in Fig. 1016. made by Mr. Allan Bwrns, when studying the subject of the anatoniy of the head and neck, for Ins well-known work; and the next (Fig. 1017) appears to liave l)een taken from a dissection of the same. Fig. 1018 represents like