891 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. three or four hours: it allays pain, diminishes reflex irritation, and quiets the action of the stomach and intestines. It may be administered by the mouth or rectum; or morphia may be subcutaneously injected instead. In children, and in persons atflicted with renal disease, opium and morphia must, how'ever, be employed with great care. In young subjects, and Avhen the peritonitis is of the sthenic form, calomel, in one grain doses, combined with opium, and given until the system is brought under its influence, is often of great benefit; in some cases it will be found to afford great relief from meteorism. ISTausea and vomiting are best combated by sucking small pieces of ice, or by taking small quantities of iced, effervescing drinks, with hydrocyanic acid in small doses. Sometimes the subcutaneous injection of morphia has the effect of checking sickness. Constipation should be left with- out treatment for some days, and then enemata are the best aperients. For the first thirty-six or forty-eight hours, no food beyond a little iced milk need be given, then thick beef-tea or essence of meat, in teaspoonfuls at a time, at intervals of fifteen or twenty minutes should be taken. If the stomach rejects all food, an enema of two ounces of beef-tea, with half an egg, should be given every five or six hours. If there is great exhaustion or depression, wine or brandy should be allowed. After the first week a more liberal diet— still, however, to be taken in small quantities at short intervals—may be permitted. During the whole period of convalescence, much care is requisite in feeding, in securing regularity of the bowels, and in avoiding all undue action of the abdominal muscles. In all cases, after any injury to the abdomen, absolute rest should be en- forced : rest by position, and the mental and physical quietude to be obtained by 0})ium, wdll often ju-event the occurrence of peritonitis, and will limit and subdue it when once set in. The surgeon every now and again sees a case of severe local peritonitis which has been caused by, though it has commenced some days after, a hurt to which but little if any attention has been given; and it is fair to presume that the patient would have escaped tlie inflammation if he had but taken proper precautions for a few days after the reception of the injury. Wounds of the Abdomen. Wounds of the abdomen are usually classified as “ non-penetrating,” that is, wounds of the parietes without perforation of the peritoneum ; and “pene- trating,” that is, wounds involving the cavity of the peritoneum. The non- penetrating wounds in certain regions of the abdomen, such as the lumbar and hypogastric, may be complicated by protruding or wounded viscera, without implication of the peritoneum. The surgeon not unfrequently designedly inflicts such wounds, as when he performs colotomy or nephro- lithotomy, or simpl}' explores the kidney ; or, again, as when for the relief of retention of urine he perforates the distended bladder above the pubis. That these wounds are not very dangerous, may be learned from the large success which results from these operations. Penetrating^ wounds may or may not be complicated with injury, protru- sion, or both injury and protrusion, of the viscera; but whether they are so or not, they are as a class much more serious than non-])enetrating Avounds. And yet there is nothing necessarily dangerous in the simjfle Avouud of tlie peritoneum, as the numerous operations practised on the abdominal cavity, and the varied and successful extension of such operations, amply prove. They are the acconq:)anying circumstances, such as shock, neglect of surgical treatment for some hours after the accident, the bruising and wounding of the