394 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. wliieh the malady has progressed, and to the lateness of the period at which the bones have become affected. If the little tubercular infiltrations of lupus can he recognized, and the tuber- cles present a compact, granular appearance, the diagnosis is confirmed ; and it is further strengthened if the disease progress slowly, and if there be a manifest disposition towards healing, here and there, even while the ulcer- ation is extending; anti-syphilitic treatment may he employed as a means of assistance in the diagnosis. If an anterior rhinoscopic examination be made, small, reddish-looking tubercles can usually be seen early in the disease to stud the mucous membrane; these soon In-eak down in ulceration, the ulcers preserving to some extent their tubercular character, and the apices of the tubercles being concealed by hard crusts. As the ulceration progresses, the cartilages become affected, the septum is perforated, one or both alte are de- stroyed, and the nasal bones are implicated. Serious deformity may thus be caused. The treatment of lupus has elsewhere been considered d it may be here added, however, that when possible to do so, the lupus-tubercles in the nasal mucous membrane may be destroyedt by means of a fine galvano-cautery point, or even the actual cautery. Chromic acid, caustic potassa, and chloride of zinc, have been recommended for the same purpose, but their action is more difficult to control. Ure advises the use, as a destructive agent, of a thick layer of a paste composed of chloride of zinc with two or three parts of gj’psum, and a little alcohol. Following the destruction of the tubercular masses, the resulting ulcers and the inflammation may be treated upon the principles already laid down elsewhere in this article. Tuberculosis of the nasal biucous biembrane is regarded as a rare affection, and certainly is one to which attention has only been directed within very re- cent years. The number of cases as yet upon record is too small to furnish a basis for definite conclusions, or to clinically illustrate distinctive, diag- nostic appearances in the ulcerations. The descriptions thus far given of the latter vary greatly, and although in many of the reported instances a care- ful microscopic examination has established beyond doubt their true patho- logical nature, in others this is open to grave suspicion. Following irre- gular and scattered granulations in the mucous membrane of the nose, ulcers are developed which are small, sometimes disseminated, but at other times confluent. They ai'e superficial, Bvith slightly thickened edges, and an irreg- ular, unhealthy-looking base ; they may occur at any i)oint in the mucous membrane of the nasal passages, but are found especially over that of the septum, and are only observed in patients in whom physical examination will show pulmonary tulierculosis, pi’obably in an advanced stage; even in such instances, their differentiation from the ulcerations of lupus, and occa- sionally of syphilis, becomes a matter of nice diagnosis. The accessory cavities of the nose, the frontal sinus, antrum of Highmore, and ethmoidal cells, were never found to be tuberculous by Weichselbaum, in a careful post-mortem examination of some 164 tubercular subjects.^ ' See Vol. II. p. 644. 2 Fraenkel (Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia, vol. iv.) quotes Willigk’s statistics. lu the post-mortem examination of 476 tubercular patients, tuberculosis of the nasal septum was seen but once. Laveran (L’Union Medicale, 1877, Nos. 35 et 36) gives two cases of tuberculosis of the nose. Riedel (Deutseb. Zeitsebrift fiir Chir., Bd. x. 1878) gives cases of tuberculosis of the nasal septum. See also Tbornwaldt, Deutseb. Arebiv fur klin. Bled., Bd. xxvii. S. 586; Weicbselbaum, Allg. Wiener med. Zeitung, Nos. 27, 28, 1881. (The microscopic examination in two cases fully re- ported is here given.) Fraenkel, Centralblatt fiir med. Wissenseb., No 27, 1881 (Statistics).