866 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. liO})e for the hest, it is our l)Oumleu duty in tlie interest of the patient to be suspicious of the worst, and to adopt precautions accordingly. It is not dithcult to understand why grave results follow from slight inju- ries to the al)domen or to the head. AVe have but to remember the highly important nature of the structures contained Avithin those cavities, their proximity to the surface, their large hlood-su[)ply and eonserpient liability to hemorrhage, their proneness and that of their serous coverings to inflame after injuiy, and the necessity of their integrity for the due performance of the complex -processes of life—in fact their anatomical relations and their pihysiological functions—to realize the risk of injuring them. I flows, kicks, or falls on the abdomen, the passage of a Avheel over it, or some compressing force apjilied to its surface, are the general causes of sub- parietal contusions and ruptures of the abdominal organs; and these injuries frecpiently occur without the trace of a bruise, wound, oi' mark of any sort, upon the surface of the abdomen. To facilitate descrii>tion of contusions of the abdomen attended with sid> }»arietal injuries to the Auscera, Ave may gi-ou}) together the contents of the abdomen after the folloAving plan; 1. The nerve structures, chiefly of the sympathetic S3'stem, and especiall}' the great central plexuses, the solar and h^’pogastric. 2. The bloodvessels of the general and portal systems, and inoi’e especially the aorta and A^ena cava, the hcjiatic, splenic, renal, and mesenteric A^essels. 3. Tlie stomach and small and large intestines. 4. The solid organs, made up largely" of bloodvessels. 5. Certain receptacles and tubes, such as the gall bladder, the urinaiy bladder, and the uterus, Avhicli vaiy much in size at different times, and the ureters. Fallopian tubes, vasa deferentia, and thoracic duct. 6. The peritoneum, Avhich extends over the Avhole surface of the cavitj^, and more or less complete!a’ envelo2)s the seve- ral contents. Contusion of the abdomen attended Avith peritonitis, Avhether as the result of laceration of the peritoneum or not, Avill be considered under ‘‘•traumatic peritonitis.” Contusion of the abdomen attended Avith injuiy to the sympa- rbetic, and more especially to the solar plexus and its numerous branches, is supposed to be the explanation of those instances of sudden death from a blow on the epigastric and upper part of the umbilical regions, in Avhich no morbid cliange, not even a trace of ecehymosis about the parietes, is detected after death. A blow on the pit of the stomach, or a “ hit in the Avind” as it is pugilisticall}" called, causes sometimes so severe a shock as instantlv" to arrest the action of the heart, and death occurs from Avliat seems a trifling bloAV. Sir A. Cooper, though not an eye-Avitness of the event, described such a case as happening near the East India House ; Dr. A. SAvaine Ta^dor has referred to one or two someAvhat similar cases; and Surgeon Arthur llarding has contributed another.^ Keference has alread_y been made to this subject in the section on “ contusion of the abdominal parietes.” Contusion and rupture of several of tlie organs contained in the fifth of the above groups Avill receive notice in other articles, and there only remain therefore, for ]>resent consideration, injuries Avithout external Avound : 1, to the bloodvessels; 2, to the stomach and intestines; 3. to the solid organs; and, 4, to the gall- bladder, the hepatic and common ducts, the ureter, and the thoracic duct. Contusion and Rupture of the Abdoaiinal Bloodvessels.—The aorta, vena cava, caliac axis, mesenteric, s^iermatic, and other chief A^essels of the abdomen, are rujflured either bj’a smart, forcible bloAV, or by a severe crush- ' Army Med. Department Report, vol. xxi., Appendix No. vii. 1881; and Holmes’s system of Surgery, 3d ed. vol. i. p. 8(17.