423 TUMORS OF THE NOSE. not even, excessive hemorrhage. In simplicity and certainty this method surpasses all others, and though it is more painful, it is much more rapid. The operation is performed either with forceps, or with some one of the various forms of wire ecraseur. The forceps should be a lightly made instrument, either straight or with a slight curve in its shank, so that the handles will not obstruct the operator’s view, and with a firm, close bite, and well-serrated blades. The nostril having been well dilated by means of a nasal speculum—^Fraenkel’s oi’ any of the ordinary wire specula will answer the purpose—and the polypus, the precise location and attach- ments of which should have been previously well studied, brought into view, its pedicle or base may be seized, well twisted, and the growth then torn out. When the growth is located far back in the nasal passage, so that it cannot be seen during the introduction of the forceps, the operator must rely in great measure upon his tactus a'uditus, in his efforts to seize it. Occa- sionally, a tumor thus located can be pushed forwards into view by the finger carried up behind the soft palate. When the growth is very large and has numerous attachments, it is ordinarily extracted piecemeal. Stoker has invented a forceps for carrying out evulsion very perfectly. A fine forceps is fixed to a wooden handle at an angle of 45°. The growth being seized at its base, the horizontal portion of the instrument is retracted from the groove in which it lies, and is then rotated, while the handle remains firm. The forceps on the pattern of the midwifery forceps occasionally answers a better purpose than the above instruments; one blade at a time is adjusted in position, then both are locked, and a firm hold on the tumor is thus obtained. (Schreger, Richter.) Dzondi recommends that the growth be drawn forwards with one pair of forceps to put its pedicle upon the stretch, and that the latter should then be caught by a second forceps, and crushed through, as close as possible to its attachment. It is possible that, when the exceedingly friable nature of the gelatiuoid polypus, and the readiness with which it tears into bits in the grasp of the forceps, render its extirpation difficult, this pro- cedure may be of benefit. A polypus frequently breaks up, and a firm hold upon it, and thorough eradication, root and branch, are impossible, witli one introduction of the forceps ; in such cases a repetition of the procedure should be undertaken, the blood being syringed away, and frequent halts being made for visual inspection, until the operator is assured that the result for which his operation was undertaken, viz., entire extirpation of the polypus or of the polypi, has been thoroughly accomplished. The tendency to the reproduction of these tumors may, to a certain extent, be controlled by the topical use of astringents and even caustics; but upon each reappearance, a repetition of the above procedures, or some one of them, becomes necessary. A case is cited, in the literature of this subject, of an individual who was obliged to submit to an operation of this kind every month for forty consecutive years. In cases where this tendency to repro- duction of the polypus exists to an excessive degree. Gross recommends that half or even more of the implicated turbinated bone shall be removed by the forceps, in addition to the polypus, following in this advice the example of Fergusson and Firogoftd Mackenzie even asserts that there are some polypi which, from their anatomical situation, cannot be removed unless a portion of the turbinated bone be previously taken away, or unless the bone be removed with the growth ; and to do this he recommends that an instru- ment be used which consists of a fine hollow forcej)S, having toothed edges on one side and smooth edges on the other, while between the two a sharp cutting blade can be rammed down. > Klin. Chir., Heft ill. S. 74. Leipzig, 1854.