1098 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. a point most difficult to determine. The best guides are; (1) The normal character of the urine as to absolute fpiantity and percentage of the excreted solids, the excretion of urea being the chief test. (2) The absence of albumen, over and above what is explained by the existence of pus in the urine. (3) The urine having an acid reaction. (4) The absence of vomiting— vomiting, as pointed out by Dr. Barlow, being often a distressing symptom when both kidneys are diseased. ^Ir. Dav}- informs me that the last appli- cation of his rectal lever has been to effect the compression of one ureter so as to ascertain the condition of the excretion from the opposite kidney. Methods of catheterizing the ureter have been proposed, but are not, I think, of any practical utility. In speaking of tuberculosis of the kidney, a distinction ought to be made between it and strumous pyelitis or pyonephrosis. In the latter, there is less tendency for the disease to spread along the ureter, and to affect more than one ]»art of the genito-urinary organs; and the disease chiefly affects the calj’ces of the kidney, whereas tubercle commences in the cortex and passes down- wards. The advantages of the lumbar operation are twofold : (1) the peritoneum is not opened, and (2) the wound permits of excellent drainage. It is performed most easily by the transverse or slightly oblique incision, as in nephrotomy, made somewhat nearer the last rib than in lumbar colotoniy ; with this should be conjoined a second incision, running longitudinally downwards from the first, and starting from it about one inch in front of its posterior extremity. In making the flrst incision, which should be about inches in length, the operator must not go nearer than half an incli of the twelfth rib, for fear of wounding the pleura, which sometimes descends a little below it. The second incision may be left until the kidne}^ has been reached and explored, and it can then be made by cutting from within outwards with a probe-ended bistoury, steadied by the index finger of the left hand. One great advantage of the longitudinal incision is the increased facility which it aftbrds for pass- ing the ligatures around the pedicle. Other incisions have, however, been employed. Simon originally adopted the longitudinal; Klineberger made a curved incision, having its convexity upwards and outwards; and several surgeons have used the ordinary lumbar-colotomy incision alone. Lucas, in an excellent article on the surgical diseases of the kidney, recommends an oblique incision half an inch below and parallel with the last rib, and a second incision “along the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum, commenc- ing at the upper edge of the last rib, and extending to the iliac crest but the upper end of such an incision would be in dangerous proximity to the pleura, which would in some subjects be wounded by it. The kidney being reached, the next ste}) is to separate it from its surround- ings. When no peri-renal inflammation has existed, the colon, peritoneum, and fatty tissue will easily be detached from their connection with the kid- ney, by the index finger of one hand worked close against the capsule of the organ. It will generally, however, I think, lie found that, even when no inflammation has occurred, some of the renal capsule will be torn off and left behind; and in other cases, as when the operation is performed for calculous or scrofulous pyonephrosis, and as a subsequent proceeding to nephrotomy, the kidney should be enucleated from its thickened and adherent capsule, which should be left behind ivith the pedicle. The next step is to pass a double ligature of plaited silk through the ])cdi- cle, between the ureter and the vessels. This is done by means of an aneur- ism-needle fixed in a long handle, whilst the kidney is dragged well up into ' British Med. Journal, Sept. 29, 1883, jn 615.