INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 818 in whieli a fair presumption may exist that tlie fluid is serous. In this case its removal is provided for by the adoption of means which are suflicient both for exploration and for the evacuation of a serous eftusion. Let us suppose, however, the fluid to be found to be purulent; the exhausting syringe will remove this too, for it flows readily through the fine needle under pres- sure. Why should not the same means that serve in the case of serous effusion, be applied to it, and the entire purulent accumulation be removed? These means can never remove all the fluid, and while in the case of serum only, absorption will remove the remainder, in the case of purulent effusion the matter will be reproduced, absorption of pus being in practice a myth. To deal then with this emergency, the operator must be prepared with means more efflcient than the aspirator. In revealing the quality of the fluid, this instrument does good service; it is an abuse of the instrument to set it to do work beyond its scope. The fluid having been proved to be purulent—a condition most likely, indeed almost a certainty, in penetrating wounds—how is the operator to proceed? Circumstances may be such that antiseptic treatment is impossible, although these must indeed be rare, even in the exigencies of a campaign. Suppose however that such treatment is im- possible, or that from the condition of the fluid escaping, say by the orifices of the wound, it is for a time at least superfluous ; under these conditions a free incision, made at the point already indicated, passing along the upper border of a rib, should be adopted, and so the freest possible escape for fluid provided. Subsequently, the injection, or introduction by irrigation, of antiseptic solutions may be practised, but at the first, and chiefly, reliance must be placed on a free and dependent incision. If it be admitted that in- jections to cleanse the cavity are desirable—and all, even the oldest, authors commend them—a suitable antiseptic treatment of the orifice and surround- - ings of the wound is clearly advisable. Under conditions favorable to antiseptic operation, it has been amply proved that the treatment of an empyema can be accomplished with great success, even in cases of long stand- ing, in which the compression and adhesions of the lung may be presumed to"^be extensive and fully established. A protracted treatment, extending over many months, has been fully rewarded by the restoration of the lung, and by the permanent closure of the openings. If success of this kind can be obtained in idiopathic empyema, we may fairly expect even greater success in the traumatic form, where the lung’s condition (the immediate dangers of the wound having been avoided, as they must have been before an empyema is formed) is more favoiable to recovery if life be prolonged through the risks attendant on suppuration. A strict Listerian treatment may of course be adopted, with a free incision practised as has been above directed, but experience has proved that a less severe and equally efflcient method can be employed thus; The chest-wall, at aud around the site of operation, being cleansed with a carbolic lotion of a strength of 1—40, and the instruments and operator’s hands being likewise duly cleansed, a carbolic spray is made to play fully over the region ; an inci- sion, half an inch in length, is then made with a scalpel or lancet over the upper border of a rib, at the seat of election already determined by explora- tory puncture, the line of the incision being in the direction of the rib border; a trocar and canula of the size of a Ho. 12 catheter (English gauge) is thrust through with a smart plunge, guarded by tlie index finger suitablj^ placed on the canula, into the pleural cavity ; the trocar having been withdrawn, as the stream of pus flows, the left forefinger checks the flow for a moment until a full-sized French drainage tube (Ho. 10, English catheter gauge), fully carbo- lized, is taken up and held ready to be inserted in the canula ; everything being ready, the finger is raised, and the tube passed against the pus-stream