INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. GIO becomes irritated, tbe aj;»plication should be desisted from till the part is again free from pain. I have, in Scotland, occasionally seen much good result from this treatment, fire-beat being substituted for the sun’s rays. The action of tbe remedy is apt to be too violent unless watched. Tbe compound iodine ointment of tbe British Pharmacopoeia, the iodide of ammonium (“ colorless iodine”), ecpial parts of camphorated mercurial ointment and iodhie, are other forms of the application which are sometimes used. Cysts may be simply tapped, or may be injected as well as emptied. Alere tapping can only afford, as a rule, temporary relief, and, however carefully managed, has not always proved free from danger.* Rarely has it led to a cure, as it did in a case related by Gosselin. Consecutive hemorrhage and profuse suppuration have occasionally followed mere tapping. Iodine is the favorite substance chosen for injection, but alcohol, ergot, and perchloride of iron are also used. The tincture of iodine, mixed with water in the proportion of one to four, or stronger, or combined with camphor or alcohol, has been frecpiently employed. Dr. Morell Mackenzie^ prefers a drachm of the tincture of the perchloride of iron in half an ounce of water, injected after drawing off the fluid by a dependent, central puncture, with a trocar and canula. The canula is left in place and plugged after the injection is made, so that the iron solution may be re-introduced at intervals of a few days, till suppuration is set up, after which the tube is withdraivn and poultices are applied, and the affection treated as a chronic abscess. Iodine, iod ide of potassium, camphorated spirit of wine and rose-water, are recommended by Bouchacourt.^ Maunoir used wine, but it is wholly inefficient. In old, hard goitres, interstitial injections are powerless. Nothing short of removal is of much service in such cases. It is in the cystic and glandular forms that injections of iodine are of most value; and though it is not unusual for the immediate effects to be violent, and even alarming, yet in a few days the beneficial i-esults will show themselves. The surgeon must proceed with caution, and be guided as to the strengtli of the injection and its repetition, by the effects of the last operation. In vascular goitres, solutions of the per- chloride of iron are to be preferred. Incision folloAved by plugging has also been employed in the treatment of cysts of the thyroid. Portions of the cyst may at the same time be removed. Violent and irrepressible bleeding has, however, thus been occasioned, and has ended most disastrously. Billroth’s experience of this method has been very unfavorable. Caustics and the actual cautery have also been used to open the cavity of the cyst, so as to diminish the risk of bleeding; and pieces of caustic have been suspended within the cyst, in the delusive hope of dimin- ishing the dangers of using the knife. The wire or thread seton is also another method of treatment which has been practised ; but here, too, violent bleeding and inflammation have arisen, and have ended fatally. Pressure has been well spoken of by an American surgeon. Dr. Dwight.^ lie applied it by means of adhesive plaster. In the vascular form of goitre it has been proposed to tie the main vessels leading to the tumor. This operation is difficult and dangerous, and has been attended with little benefit, as the collateral circulation is very easily established. In the solid forms of goitre, various methods of treatment have been attempted. Electricity, crushing, breaking up with a trocar, interstitial ' See Gaz. des Hopitaux, 1857. 2 Lancet, 1872 ; and Transactions of Clinical Society of London, 1874. 3 Hnlletin de Thfirapentique, 1849. ^ Transactions of the American Medical Association, vol. iv., 1851.