INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. S12 been raised, namely, as to whether the fall or the blow from the wadding was the cause of the rupture. Perforation of the stomac-h by gastric solution has been mistaken for rupture of the organ. Such a mistake might lead to serious consequences if an injury had been inflicted by another individual prior to the patient’s death. Prognosis.—It has been already stated that death is almost the inevitable termination of ru}»ture of the membranous viscera. It may occur either in the primaiy stage, from colla})se, or in the later stage, from peritonitis, or from intestinal obstruction due to contraction of the injured bowel; and it has been caused some weeks after the closure of the rent Iw pyremia. If recoveiy takes place, it is because the rent is very small and soon closed by adhesions, or by prolapse of the mucous membrane, or by the opening becoming plugged by a mass of omentum, thus preventing the escape of the visceral contents, as in the case of Jobert (de Landialle). Peath alter rupture of the stomach or duodenum occurs generally in ti-om three hours to five daj^s, but it is pos- sible that some of the cases of supposed recovery from chronic gastritis have really been recoveries from slight or partial rupture, in which the lacerated coats have been healed, or glued to the surrounding parts by traumatic peri- tonitis. I’oland^ gives abstracts of 64 fatal cases of ruptured stomach and bowels, and out of 57 in which the time of death is stated, 10 were fatal in five hours, 17 in from five to'twenty-four hours, 20 in from twonp'-four to forty- eight hours, 9 between the third and sixteenth days, during the period of repair, and one after two months. Stromeyer^ cites a case of abdominal con- tusion in which laematemesis recurred on the fourteenth day, and in which, at the autopsy, a rupture of the stomach was found. Treatment.—Eveiy care must be taken to keep the injured viscus absoluteh’ quiet, so tliat repair may be etfected. To this end, the first and most essential rule to observe is, “ Xever give a drop of fluid or a particle of solid food, for forty-eight hours at least—this is the golden rule.”^ After this period, small (juantities at a time of food, such as jelly, beef tea, or milk, may be taken by the mouth. Tliere is no doul>t that the chances of recovery have been (piite destroyed by the neglect of these pi-ecautions, as the presence of brandy and water, and of castor oil, administered after the accident and found after death floating freel,y amongst the coils of intestines within the perit^tneal cavity, has too plainly proved. Small fragments of ice, or a little piece of pellitory root to suck, or acidulated ivater, painted from time to time on the tauces, will allay thirst. Stimulants and purgatives must be avoided. Poland,'* in drawing attention to this class of injuries, writes: “ AVe have been mainly influenced by the fact that much injudicious and careless (we might almost say reckless) treatment has been resorted to. In the numerous instances here collected, w'e have sad specimens of the action of piu’gatives in hurrying the unfortunate |)atient to a more speedy and inevitable death.” The recumbent position, with the knees raised and sup}>orted by a pillow, mnst be observed; subcutaneous injections of morphia, or opium in small and frecpientl}' repeated doses, should bo given; and hot fomentations or poppy-head stupes should be applied to the abdomen. As retention of urine is prone to occur after these as after most other injuries, this should be looked for and relieved if neces- sary by the catheter. If the patient survives the first shock of the injury, and peritonitis or intestinal obstruction su})ervenes, the treatment requisite for those conditions must be adopted. ' Guy’s IIosp. Reports, 3d series, vol. iv. p. 123. 2 See Med. and Surg. Hist, of tlie War of the Rebellion, Part Second, Surgical Volume, p. 22. Dr. Otis gives references to several cases of rupture of the stomach and intestines. 3 Poland, loc. cit., p. 129. ‘ Ibid., p. 1(17.