50 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. due to rupture of the iieAvly formed vessels of the cyst. These cysts may con- tract more or less perfect adhesions to both layers of the arachnoid, but usually are firmly attached to the jtarietal arachnoid alone. They are more rarely found either attached to the parietal layer by a few filaments, or perfectly free in the arachnoid sac. They may be of large size, as one reported by Dr. Quain, which was seven and a half inches long and one'and a half inches wide at its broadest part. The cyst had formed a corresponding depression upon the upper surface of the cerebral hemisphere.* Not confined to any age, these cysts when large compress and fiatten the subjacent convolutions, and contract the area of the corresponding ventricle. If formed in early childhood, they have been known to produce bulging outward of the cranial bones.^ Virchow has pointed out that some intra-arachnoid blood-cysts have their origin in ruptures of bloodvessels in newly-orgaiuzed inflammatory false membranes. /Symptoms.—These are not characteristic when the eftusion is small, and even when large it may produce no very decided evidences of compression. The signs are apt to be masked by those of cerebral laceration, a common accompaniment of intra-arachnoid extravasation. Da Costa gives the symp- toms as “ ordinarily pain in the head, somnolency, and profound coma with paralysis, and without aufesthesia or slow pulse, but with relaxation of the muscles, and sometimes . . . convulsions.” When circumscribed or limited to one hemisphere, the sjmiptoms are identical with those presented by efiu- sions between the bone and dura mater. In most cases there is an interval of consciousness after the shock has been recovered from. When this is not so, there is probably extensive laceration of the brain, and the pulse is more apt to be rapid, small, and feeble, rather than slow, full, and labored. The respirations are, according to S. W. Gross, rather labored than stertorous. Marked inequality of the pupils is rare, and the hemiplegia is not as decided as in subcranial effusion. Diagnosis.—A differential diagnosis can, under tlie most favorable circum- stances, be only probable, and in most instances it is impossible. According to S. D. Gross, infants, “ before tlie completion of the ossific process,” suffer from intra-arachnoid effusion of blood, the results of blows upon the head. The “little patient lies in a state of insensibility, and is usually affected with convulsions, or spasmodic twitches, and perhaps some degree of stertor.” The scalp is commonly severely contused, but owing to the yielding nature of the bones, no fracture exists. The fontanelle appears to be elevated somewhat above its proper level, while pressure detects increased tension, and may increase all the symptoms, especially the tendency to convulsions. The prognosis is bad,® for, even should recovery ensue, constant headache, irritability of temper, epilepsy, or insanity, may result.^ Treatment.—In most cases this must be that of other severe injuries of the head—the use of local cold, blood-letting, mercurials, and the iodide and bromide of potassium, as may seem indicated. In a few rare instances, where, owing to circumscription of the eftusion, the symptoms resemble those of effusion between the dura mater and the bone, trephining may be resorted to, and the operation has been successful in a few such cases. After the disk of bone has been removed, the dura mater bulges into the opening, is of a bluish 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Loncl., vol. vi. p. 8. ^ Lancet, vol. i. p. 416. 1846. ® An effusion equal in bulk to one-sixth or even one-fifth of the cranial capacity seems neces- sary, of itself, to produce death. ^ Diet, de Med. et de Chir. prat., t. xi. p. 407 ; Blandin, Anat. topographique, 2me ed., p. 36. 1834; Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 579.