INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 356 witli that of tlie “bright spot”). The anterior limb of the stirrup is concealed behind the long process of the anvil. It is quite possible that at the present time—these colored drawings were made twenty years ago—Prof. Politzer might feel disposed to interpret the appearances pre- sented in this ligure as indicating a condition of atrophy (from sclerosis), rather than one of normal, though unusual, transparency of the membrane. The absence of an unusual whiteness of the inner wall of the tympanum is the only feature which seems to me to be lacking, if my supposition is correct. Fig. 5 represents a markedly congested, but otherwise only slightly altered, membrana tympani, such as is commonly seen in the early stage of an acute catarrhal (non-puru- lent) inflammation of the middle ear. The chief redness is noticed along the handle of the hammer (manubrial vessels), and near the circumference of the membrane (peripheral vessels). In the intermediate space between the manubrial and the peripheral vessels, may be seen a few superficial ones, which serve as connecting links between the two systems. In Fig. 6, the inflammatory changes are represented as having gone a step further. The epidermoid surface is less polished (commencing serous infiltration), and ecchymoses may be seen at several points, especially between the handle of the hammer and the posterior periphery of the membrane. Figs. 7 and 8 show an advanced stage of inflammation of the membrana tympani. The parts are so much swollen and gorged with blood that the handle of the hammer can no longer be distinguished. Masses of desquamating epithelium, infiltrated with pus, appear like irregularly shaped patches of a reddish or yellowish-white color upon a purplish or bright red background. In Fig. 7, a process of granulation has raised the tissues of the membrane into low prominences. In Fig. 9, the circular dark spot in the lower part of the inflamed membrane represents a sharply cut pei'foration. In Fig. 10, the following peculiarities should be noted: the marked foreshortening of the handle of the hammer, its tip at the umbo being somewhat indistinct, while the short process, which lies nearer to the observer’s eye, is unusually prominent and well defined; and the decided prominence of the posterior fold. The grayish-white margin at the periphery of the membrane represented in Fig. 12, corresponds to the annulus cartilagineus, or that portion of the membrana tympani which fits into the sulcus tympanicus. The grayish-white color is probably due to the presence of fat cells. Politzer compares it to the arcus senilis of the cornea. The free portion of the membrane in this figure seems to be unnaturally curved inward. PLATE XXX. The different figures in this plate represent the lesions which often remain after the subsidence of a purulent, destructive inflammation of the tympanum. In Fig. 2, the appearances are as if the greater part of the right membrana tympani had been destroyed. The white circular spot above and to the right, represents the short process of the hammer, whose very much foreshortened handle runs (in the draw- ing) downward and backward until it seems to touch the exposed inner wall of the tympanum. A thickened remnant of the original membrane is still attached to the handle of the hammer. It somewhat resembles in shape a new moon. The rounded surface over which two or tliree bloodvessels may be seen to ramify, represents either tlie mucous membrane of the inner wall of the tympanum, or a thin reproduction of that part of the drum membrane which ulceration has destroyed. In the latter case, as the newly-formed membrane would be closely applied to the inner wall of tlie tym- panum, mere ocular inspection would scarcely suffice to determine accurately the true relations of the parts. Fig. 3 represents an ear (left side) from which the greater part of the memhrana tympani has been removed by disease. Anteriorly (tliat is, toward the left) a whitish,