807 SUB-PARIETAL CONTUSION AND RUPTURE OF VISCERA. ^ Guy’s JIosp. Reiiorts, 2d series, vol. vii. p. 130. iiio; violence, such as the passage of a wlieel of a ivagon, etc. In the ease of^'the aorta the rupture is generally transverse, but occasionally oblicpie; sometimes it is a clean rent, sometimes iri-egular and angular ; occasionally it is entirely across, but more frefpiently not; in some instances all the coats are torn, in others the internal and middle coats only are divided, and become inverted and retracted within tlie stronger outer coat in the same manner as after the employment of Fleet Spier’s artery-constrictor.^ In the IMuseum of the Middlesex Hospital there are two beautiful samples of this form' of rupture. Instances of rupture of the vena cava have been recorded by Breschet, liichei-and, A'elpeau, and Poland. I’oland- has also recorded a case of death from hemorrhage, from a branch or branches of the vena porta at their entrance iiLto the liver. The woman was run over ivlien intoxicated; there was no external sign of injury ; she referred all her pain to the scro- biculus cordis and the left hypochondrium ; hut at the post-mortem exami- nation there were three pints of coagulated blood in the abdomen, and copious effusion behind the peritoneum, derived from the torn vessels, Init no lacer- ation of liver or spleen, all the organs being healthy. Dr. McHaughton records a case of (leath from ripiture of the right ovarian or s[iermatie vein.^ Pi'of. Gross cites a fatal case of laceration of the s})lenic vein.^ Amins within the abdomen have been known to hurst spontaneously during the cold stages of ague. One of the results of contusion of an artery is aneurism. This is more likely to follow if the inner coats are lacerated, and the external weakened but not torn by the blow. In the Guy’s Hospital Reports for 1851,® Dr. Lever records a case of aneurism of the common iliac, caused by a IjIow, in a female aged 33. Aneurism of the right superior mesenteric artery has arisen in tlie same way. The symptoms will vary according to the size of the vessel injured, and will depend upon whether the rupture is complete and attended with hemorrhage, or incomplete and unattended by bleeding. If the rupture he completely through all the coats, and the vessel be of some size, hemorrhage, and collapse with syncope, will be extreme. If the rupture affect oidy some of the coats, or if a vessel be seriously contused without any of the coats being lacerated, hemorrhage will not occur ; but the evil consecpiences of the injury will he shown at a later period in gangrene, or in the results of a diminished hlood-tlow owing to permanent narrowing of the caliln-e of the vessel at the contused [)art, or in the formation of an aneurism. Usually these injuries to the vessels are complicated by lesions of other organs, which add to tlie fatality of accidents sufficiently dangerous and fatal of them- selves. It is not seldom that both artery and veins are injured together, and then if death does not ensue from hemorrhage, it almost certainly Avill from gangrene. The duujnosis of these injuries is difficult, and is often complicated by the presence of other lesions, produced by the same accident. The prognosis is most unfavorable, the least dangerous being the incomplete ruptures, and the contusions without rupture of any of the coats. Treatment.—If there he time for the adoption of any line of treatment, this should consist in the maintenance of alisolute rest in the recumbent position, in a cool air, ivith the application of ice to the abdomen ; opium should be given to relieve pain and quiet the circulation. With evidence of hemor- rhage continuously going on, or recurring a few days after the injury, the ' See Figs. 39li—402, Vol. III., page 98, supra. “ Prize Essay. ® Edin. Med. and Surg. Jour., 1841, p. 253. ’ System of Surgery, 5tli ed., vol. ii. p. 087.