INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 312 tiou by reflected lig’bt, tlie patient’s anterior nares. Everything’ being in readiness, and the water having been shaken or blown ont of the catheter, the operator should ])lace the Angers of his left hand firmly upon the patient’s forehead, and, with the end of his thumb, he should elevate as much as pos- sible the end of the patient’s nose—the object of the latter procedure being to straighten the entrance to the nasal passage, and in so far to facilitate the introduction of the catheter. This instrument should be held lightly by the surgeon, between the thumb and forefinger of his right hand, and at no time should force be used in overcoming any obstacles that ma}’ be encoun- tered. Just within the nasal orifice, the floor of the nasal passage rises up in the form of a ridge, the inner or deeper side of which is moi-e abrupt than the outer one. When the catheter is first introduced into the nasal orifice, its outer end should be at a somewhat low’er level, though in some cases we may begin at once with the instrument in a nearly horizontal position. To pass it beyond the ridge, and engage it in the lower nasal passage, the sur- geon must elevate the ring end of the instrument until it occupies a nearly horizontal position. It is at this stage of the operation that the beginner is very apt to make a mistake. Instead of passing the catheter along the floor of the nasal canal, he slips it over the upper surface of the inferior turbinated bone, and, on reaching the naso-pharyngeal space, wonders why his eftbrts to turn the instrument into the mouth of the Eustachian tube cause the patient such great distress. A glance at the illustrations of this region, in some good treatise on anatomy, will show how eas}^ it is to make this mistake. It is only necessary to push the beak of the instrument a short distance beyond the summit of the ridge, and we shall find it slipping only too easily along the wrong channel. When the catheter has been pushed beyond the ridge, and is actually resting upon the inferior turbinated bone, the elevation of the ring end of the instrument will not correct the error unless the catheter be withdrawn a certain distance. In the first stage of the operation, therefore, it is important to hug the floor of the nasal passage with the beak of the catheter, at least until the instrument has passed beneath the inferior turbi- nated bone, and is well engaged in the lower channel. As already stated, it is better, from this point onward, to let the instrument find its own wa}’. Ey this I mean that if the catheter encounters some obstacle, we should aban- don the attempt to push it onward in a certain fixed manner—that is, with the beak always pointing downward and backward—and should rotate the instrument slowly, while keeping up a gentle pressure from behind, until we find a position in which it no longer encounters opposition, but yields to the pressure which tends to drive it farther inward toward the naso-pharynx. As we wish the instrument, on first reaching the cavity, to lie with its beak turned directly downward, Ave should begin at once, after passing the obstacle referred to, to rotate the catheter back toward the desired ijosition. If Ave fail in our efibrts to overcome the obstacle encountered, Ave must either resort to an instrument of smaller diameter, or tiy to reach the Eustachian tube by way of the nasal passage of the opposite side. The latter course will usually be found the preferable one. When the catheter is in the naso-pharyngeal space, with its beak turned directly doAviiAvard, Ave should first make sure of our bearings by pushing the instrument oinvard until Ave feel the resistance ottered by tlie posterior pharyngeal Avail. When the catheter is in this posi- tion, Ave knoAV that if A\'e rotate it far enough Ave shall carry the beak into Avhat is knoAvn as Rosenmiiller’s fossa, a slight depression located just behind the mouth of the Eustachian tube. Hence, if Ave wish to introduce the instrument into the latter cavity, Ave must draAV it out a distance of a quai’tcr or three- eighths of an inch, and then rotate it through an arc of about one hundred and thirty-five degrees, or until a line draAvn through the plane of the ring