109 SECONDARY AFFECTIONS OF THE BRAIN. probably been direct involvement of the pnenmogastric nerves or tbeii’ centres. Although the appetite remains good, emaciation and loss of strength, due to defective assimilation, mark the after-course of certain head-injuries. Urinary Changes.—Cases are met with in which abnormalities of the renal secretion are more or less marked. Thus irritability of the bladder, retention or incontinence of urine, with a marked increase of the amount secreted—that is, traumatic diabetes—may all be noticed. The diabetes men- tioned is usually of the saccharine variety, comes on soon after the accident, and persists only for about eight or ten days in most instances. This is not invariably the rule, irritable bladder, etc., with marked diabetes insipidus, sometimes persisting for months. As a result of severe injuries of the skull and brain, albumen, with or without a diminution of urea, may be present in the urine.* The amount of saccharine matter in traumatic diabetes is usually small, and its presence has been variously ascribed to an injury of the floor of the fourth ventricle, to defective oxygenation of the blood, etc. Genital Changes.—An occasional, early efl'ect of blows upon the liead, especially of its posterior portion, has been violent sexual excitement witli incessant erections. It appears most probable, according to the latest investi- gations, that this, as well as impotence, is due to injury of the medulla oblongata, rather than of the cerebellum or cerebrum.^ Atrophy of the testes may or may not accompany impotence. Paralysis of some of the facial or ocular muscles is not uncommon. Want of co-ordination of certain muscles, muscular twitchings, and paralysis of a single linger, of the hand, or of a limb, may also occur. As one of the causes of these various sym}>toms. Gross calls attention to a calcification and necrosis of the nerve-cells of the brain, described by Virchow, in which the cell-processes and even the fine nerve-fibres of the brain-cortex may sometimes be also calcified, as a result of so-called concussion. In the vast majority of cases, liowever, the symptoms are due to local congestions or inflammations of various parts of the encephalon, the result of injury to the brain or its envelo^ies, to intracranial hemorrhages, or to the effusion of inflammatory products, and secondary changes, such as sclerosis. The paralysis may also be due to compression or lesion of the cranial nerves, and not to any cerebral injury proper. Treatment of Secondary Brain-Affections.—This is involved in that of the injuries which give rise to the secondary results. Over and above this, atten- tion to the state of the bowels, careful regulation of the diet, change of air, and, at a later stage, tonics, hot or cold douches—or alternations of these—with perhaps sea-bathing and electricity, may prove useful. Quietude of mind and body should be enforced. A prolonged course of iodide of ]>otassium, with or without mercury, may be tried. When local congestions seem to be the cause of the symptoms, ergot should be exhibited, and dry or even wet cupping should be resorted to. I’rolonged counter-irritation, by setons and issues, has been recommended upon high authority. In conditions of the pathology of which we know so little, such remedies seem to me of doubtful propriety, and having no personal exjierience of their use I do not recommend, but merely mention them, as said to have proved remedial in the hands of others. ‘ AHninien, according to Iluguenin, is more commonly found in the urine than sugar. A case of Verneuil’s, already quoted, presented distinct evidences of both sugar and albumen in the urine. Harkin, Practitioner, Feb. 1884, p. 1)8.