216 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. chamber, excite suppurative inflammation only when in contact with the iris, but not when sticking in the lens, and projecting into the anterior chamber. (2) If the piece of copper is suspended in the vitreous humor, suppurative inflammation does not follow. When resting in the tunics of the eye, in the ciliary region, suppuration ensues, hut is limited to the immediate neighbor- hood of the foreign body. (3) Lead ivire does not excite suppuration, either in the vitreous or in the anterior chamber. But small masses of lead, sus- pended in the vitreous, give rise to tlie same form of detachment of the retina as iron or copper. (4) Metallic mercury, introduced aseptically, devel- ops, both in the vitreous and anterior chamber, severe suppurative inflam- mation ; but this difters from the inflammation produced by rapid germ development, by not extending to the neighboi’ing parts of the eye. These results refer, of course, to experiments on the eyes of animals. Diseases op the Conjunctiva. The known frequency of these affections is in part explained by the con- stant contact of the air, and of all it contains, with the conjunctiva. Hot only floating particles, hut poisonous vapors thus reach its sensitive sur- face, and give rise to irritation and inflammation. The easy access of con- tagious secretions, also, gives a rational explanation of the origin of many of these maladies, while the influence of atmospheric changes in exciting dis- eases of this portion of the mucous membrane, is likewise well established. Conjunctivitis.—By far the greater number of morbid processes involving the conjunctiva are of an inflammatory character, and we naturally begin, therefore, with the symptoms of conjunctivitis, and first, the objective symptoms. These are; (1) Increased injection, ranging from the slightest blush to the most vivid redness. (2) Swelling, due to inflammatory hyperiemia and in- filtration of the tissues, but more especially of the subconjunctival structures. High degrees of tins swelling, when involving the ocular conjunctiva, are called chernosis. Chemosis may be serous, of a watery a])pearance, yielding readily to slight pressure, and indicating less severity of inflammation ; or phlegmonous, firmer, more opaque, tenderer to pressure, and evidencing more violent inflammation. (3) Perverted and increased secretion. This change varies from a slight excess of transparent mucus, through the muco-purulent form, to the most marked and profuse purulent discharge. The mild forms of conjunctivitis are usually transient, and attended by little danger. The phlegmonous and purulent varieties are apt to be disastrous in their conse- quences. They are, however, Imt degrees of the same process. The subjective evidences of conjunctivitis are, a sense of dryness, itching, burning, and a feeling of sand in the eyes. Severe pain is not present except in violent forms of the disease, and then arouses fears of trouble in the cornea or the iris. Cloudiness of vision, and rainbow-colors around objects, are due to flakes of mucus on the cornea, and disappear by washing the eyes. Con- stant deficiency of sight generally results from morbid changes in the epi- thelium or other structures of the cornea. The diagnosis of conjunctivitis is very easy, but the ready recognition of serious complications is not so simple. Therein are manifested the skill and success of the expert. Prognosis.—The tendency of conjunctivitis, as of most other diseases, is to recovery. Under favorable circumstances it is apt to get well spontaneously. Aggravated by injudicious treatment or bad surroundings, or both, it be- comes tedious and dangerous to sight. When recovery is spontaneous, or