INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 350 bone, a hemorrhage from the ear means, as a rule, a rupture of the bloodves- sels in the vicinity of Shrapnell’s membrane. Such a hemorrhage may be copious, and may continue for a comparatively long time; and the mere fact of its copiousness does not indicate that a communication has been opened between the cavity of the tympanum and any of the large vascular channels which surround the temporal hone. I am convinced, from actual observation in numerous cases, that the bloodvessels in the neighborhood of Shrapnell’s membrane, are amply able, under favorable circumstances, to provide both a copious and a prolonged Ijleeding. I am also satistied, from examinations which I have made in cases of injury to the head of recent occurrence, that fractures of the temporal hone often occur without the slightest bleeding from the extei’iial auditory canal. That these views, however, are at variance with those of the best surgical authorities, may be gathered from the follow- ing statement, which I have copied from Sir Prescott Hewett’s remarks on Practures of the Base of the Skull, in Holmes’s System of Surgery;— “ Bleeding from the ears, in severe injuries of the head, has, for many years past, been held, and deservedly too, as one of the most valuable diagnostic signs of fractured base. But this bleeding, to be of any value as a means of diagnosis, must be of a serious nature, and, above all, it must continue for some time. With such a bleeding it may be safely diagnosed that there is a fracture of the base running through the petrous bone, and opening up a communication between the cavity of the tympanum and some of the numerous and large vascular channels which surround this bone, or with an extravasation of blood within the cranium itself.” The other symptom, which is considered to he of so great diagnostic value in eases of suspected fracture of the temporal hone, is that of a watery dis- charge from the external auditory canal. While our direct knowledge with regard to this symptom is almost a blank, apparently no examinations having been made of the ear in suitable cases, a general knowledge of ear-diseases and of the anatomy of the temporal bone would prevent me from accepting in their entirety the views put forward by Sir Prescott llewett in the follow- ing ]^^)aragraphs, taken from the article quoted aljove:— “ There are, then, as far as is known at present, three classes of cases of this watery discharge. In the first class, where the fluid from the ear is plentiful and of a decidedly watery character immediately after the accident, there need be no doubt as to the nature of the injury—the watery discharge is due to tlie escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid, which, as already stated, can only take place througli a fracture of the petrous bone implicating the internal auditory canal and its membranes. “ In the second class of cases, characterized by a copious and prolonged bleeding from the ear, followed by a watery discharge, a fracture of the petrous bone may also be safely diagnosed; but it cannot be said that the fracture follows any particular course. In these cases it must, however, be clearly understood that it is not to the watery discliarge that we can trust for our diagnosis, but to the copious and prolonged bleeding. “ Thus far there is no difficulty. Not so, however, in the third class of cases, in which there is at first a discharge of blood only, neither copious nor prolonged, which is followed by a watery discharge, varying as to the time of its appearance—varying as to its quantity. It may be present within a very few hours after the accident—it may be profuse within a few hours after its appearance. These are the cases in which expe- rience has of late proved that the diagnosis ought to be doubtful. The discharge of blood is certainly not of a character to warrant a diagnosis of fracture of the petrous bone ; and as to the watery discharge, it is now well known that such a discliarge may occur within a few hours after the accident, that its quantity may even be profuse, and yet there may be no fracture.” I may he in error with regard to this matter, and yet it appears to me to he a very simple problem, at least as far as the existence or non-existence of a fracture is concerned. To determine the full extent of the fracture, is quite