INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TDE ABDOMEN. 942 Medical Communications, vol. ii. a. Method of the Qiiatres Maitre^ (middle of the thirteenth century).—It is said that they commenced by procuring the windpipe of an animal, introducing one ex- tremity of this tube into the upper end of the divided gut, and inserting the other into the lower end ; and that they then approximated the ends of the two bleeding circles in order to adjust them, and kept them in contact by means of several points of suture. . Jamerius, Roger, and Theodoric supported the canal by a canula of elder wood. William of Salicet recommended a dry, hardened bowel of some animal. Louis tried the method on two dogs, and they recovered.^ Vogel tells us that a veterinary surgeon, in 1704, opened the abdomen of an ox affected with obstinate constipation ; he cut away the mortified portion of intestine, and sewed the ends of the bowel over a tube of wood ; the cylinder was soon voided -per atium, and the animal lived several years.^ Dr. Watson, in 1790, excised a portion, four or five inches, of the bowel of a large dog, and sewed the divided extremities over a cylinder of isinglass; the animal per- fectly recovered.'* b. Method of Sabatier.—Sabatier, Ritch, Desault, and Chopart substituted a piece of playing-card besmeared with essence of turpentine or oil of St. John’s wort, or varnished in any manner whatever. c. Method of Dnverger (1745) He used a portion of prepared calf’s trachea, fur- nished with three loops of tliread, placed at equal distances, each end being armed with a small curved needle. It was first put into hot wine, to make it more supple and warm, and afterwards steeped in a mixture of Commander’s balsam and balsam of Peru. He then introduced it into the intestine in such a way that it supported the two ends, and by means of the curved needles he made three points of interrupted suture, passing them from within to without, three or four lines from the wounded edges; the knots were made at one side of the wound. Du verger’s case is probably the only authentic example of this plan succeeding in the human subject. He cut off a portion of mortified intestine, in a case of strangulated hernia, introduced a portion of the trachea of a calf, brought the divided intestine over it, and fastened it by a suture. The trachea was passed on the twenty-first day, and the external wound closed on the fortieth. The patient recovered. Sir A. Cooper repeated the experiment of Duverger; on tlie sixteenth day the animal was killed, and the union was complete. d. Method of Jobert (1824).—When omentum presents itself in front of the bowel, he seizes a fold of it, interposes the fold between the edges of the wound, and then brings the lips of the wound together, uniting the whole by the suture of Ledran. At the autopsy there is found in the intestine a floating layer of omentum. All these modes of trying to establish the continuity of the bowel by the introduc- tion of a foreign body or tube, and uniting the intestine over it, are attended with so much difficulty and danger, and give such bad results, that their advocates have quite discarded them for the present. II. Union of Divided Intestine by Invagination.—a. Method of Ramdohr (1730) Ramdohr, having under treatment a soldier, in whom the continuity of the intestinal tube had been destroyed, cut off a large part of the intestine, and joined the two sound ends together, by inserting the upper end within tlie lower one, and fixing them in this position by a point of suture moderately tightened, the ligature being also employed to keep them at the same time near the external wound. The patient recovered, and the feces continued to pass entirely by the rectum in the natural way. About a year after the operation he died of another affection. The parts were removed and sent to Moebius, who showed them to Heister. They exhibited, according to the latter author, union of the two ends of the bowel together, and their consolidation with a part of the abdomen. Heister made experiments on dogs in this manner, but without success. Moebius attempted to re[>eat Ramdohr’s operation upon a dog, but he > Four famous monks, who practised surgery together at Paris. The method was to unite the wound of the intestine by direct apposition of tlie divided edges, supporting the intestine by a firm cylinder introduced within it. 2 m'^iu. de I’Acad. de Chirurgie. ^ Sandifort, Thesaurus Dissertationum, etc., tom. ii.