224 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. complication, and sometimes without it, acute iritis is apt to occur, with its characteristic circumorbital pains. In that event, the mydriatics are all the more important. It is in view of this complication, which seems to be favored by the local use of eserine, that I am cautious about the use of the latter for the purpose of preventing the destruction of the cornea. The boracic acid, cold, compression with a bandage, opiates, quinia, and careful paracentesis, are the remedies in which I have most contidence. Still, I sometimes use a drop of the eserine solution directly to the ulcerated cornea, once in six or eight hours, keeping up the predominating influence of the atropine all the time. This gentle and rational course, continued for a few days or weeks,, is likely to subdue the inflammatory troubles, so that very careful local stimu- lation may be tried. The tolerance of light, absence of tears, and presence of more or less mucous or purulent secretion, with fading away of the sclerotic injection around the cornea, esi^ecially above, are favorable symptoms. In pro- portion to the amount of pus contained in the discharges, and the succulence of the conjunctiva, will be the preferability of nitrate of silver over other astrin- gents or caustics. We begin with a flve-grain solution, lirushed quickly and lightly over the thoroughly everted lids with a camel’s, hair pencil, and quickly washed oft' with water, so that none of it touches the cornea. In twenty-four hours, if the reaction has been brief and the eyes seem better, the application may be repeated in the same manner. Little by little we feel our way, and determine the tolerance of the eyes. While a solution of this strength does well, its use may be continued. When it ceases to produce sufficient reaction, the proportion of the nitrate should be increased to ten grains. Stronger solutions than this are seldom required, and are not safe. Alternating the local remedies is nearly always found beneticial. Use one a few days or weeks, as long as it does good; then resort to another; and Anally you may return to the first substance used, with advantage. The sulphate of copper in solution, or in smooth crystal, is a valuable remedy, and for long-continued use is preferable to the nitrate of silver, which is likely to discolor the conjunctiva. A five, ten, or even twenty-grain solution may he brushed on once a day, and then be well washed off, but most surgeons use the crystal, passed quickly over once or twice, and then freel}’ washed away. When the retro-bulbar folds are thickened, the crystal can be passed hack under the upper edge ot the everted tai’sus, so as to reach them. In many chronic cases, it is found that the nuetral acetate of lead in saturated solution, and well washed away, acts very favorably and produces little re- action. It should never be used as a wash, dro})ped into the eyes, in such cases, for fear of precipitation in the cornea. Tannin, crystals of alum, and many other astringents have at difl'erent times been recommended, but if no one of the three remedies above described acts well, .scarcely any other will. Of course the conditions that admit of safe local stimulation to encourage absorption, make the furtlier use of atropine unnecessary. As it keeps the pupil dilated and paralyzes accommodation, thus causing great confusion of vision, and often alarm, it should only be used when decidedly indicated. In rare cases it produces atropinization and will not be tolerated at all. In these, hyoscyaraine or duboisia must he substituted. Should an acute relapse occur during this course of judicious local treatment, as it is apt to do, drop the local irritants and return for a time to the soothing measures, and so with one or the other persevere to the end, which is nearly always far in the misty future. In intractable cases of granular lids, with pannus covering and protecting the cornea, inoculation of gonorrhceal pus, first suggested by Friedrich Jaeger of Vienna, in 1812, has often been successfully practised. lirilliant results,