SUB-PARIETAL CONTUSION AND RUPTURE OF VISCERA. 879 (1) Haematui’ia may denote simply of This I believe was proved by two cases in each of which a boy was run over by carriage wlieels. In each case there was collapse and prrecordial pain as well as pain in the affected loin. In one case there was no difficulty or pain in micturat- ing throughout; in the other the catheter had to be used at first. In each case the urine was mixed with a large cpiantity of blood; in one the lifematuria continued for three days, and in the otlier for four days. In neither case was there any contusion of the surface, nor any swelling in the loin. Both patients were well within a fortnight, though slight localized peritonitis occurred in one. (2) An injury short of actual rupture of the pelvis of the kidney, or of the ureter, is that of strain or laceration of the j)elvis or ureter^ followed adhesive inflammation and obliteration of the urinary duct. Hydronephrosis follows within a week or two, and leads to a tumor in the loin; and this after a suc- cession of tappings may cease to refill, owing to the complete destruction of tlie secreting substance of the injured kidney. An illustrative case of this sort is described by Mr. Croft,' and Mr. Stanley’s^ case was an exactly similar one to Croft’s, and not one of ru})tured ureter, as it is so often cpioted as being. In other cases the kidney, in the course of months or years, becomes converted into a number of abscess-sacs, and the ureter atrophies after liecom- ing (piite impervious.^ (3) Rupture of the kklney is by no means a very infrecpient accident, despite the protected situation of the organ, and its envelope of fatty areolar tissue. Aor is it by any means necessarily fatal, as is proved by the instances in which the injury has been felt through an external wound, by others in winch urine and blood have been discharged through the loin, and by the case of the officer described by Ilennen,^ in which the patient, who had been shot in the siile, and afterwards suffered attacks of retention and urinous abscesses in the loin, completely recovered after a piece of cloth had been discharged tlirough tlie urethra. Recovery may even follow complete division of the kidney and obliteration of the corresponding ureter. Such a case has been recorded in the London Pathological Society’s Transactions,® the patient subsecpiently dying of granular disorganization of the other kidney. It is largely due to the plugging of the renal bloodvessels, and to the capacity of the other kidney, if healthy, for doing compensatory Avork, that so many recoveries from contusion, laceration, rupture, and puncture of the kidney take place. The two chief conditions upon whicli recovery depends are the escape of the peritoneum, and that of the large branches of tlie renal artery and vein. If, however, a large branch of the renal artery be torn, and death does not cpiickly follow from bleeding, the gradually increasing hemorrhage is likely to lead by pressure to sloughing of the peritoneum, which may have escaped the original injury. The kidney may be ruptured in sevei’al fashions, like the liver and s]>leen: there ma}^ be several small surface-tears, or the organ may bo completely torn through, either transversely or longitudinally. Aotes of each of tliese varieties are before me. It is more than probable, however, that some of the eases which have been regarded as examples of recovery from ruptured kid- ney, were not really cases of rupture: for example, a lad aged fifteen years hail been run over, and for three days suffered pain in the liypoehondriurn, and vomited at intervals. Tliore Avas blood in the urine on and after the day of * Trans. Clin. Soo., vol. xiv. }'• 107- ^ Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii. ® Mr. Ilaviland has recorded such a case. Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., vol. x. p. 209. ‘ Op. cit., p. 455. 5 Ti’ans. Path. Soc. Loud., vol. xi. p. 140.