441 INJURIES TO THE NOSE. to the bone, but bevelled, as Packard, of Philadelphia, has suggested, as creating the least cicatrix—not more than one-eighth or a quarter of an inch long, over the greatest convexity of the bony deformity and parallel to the free border of the nose, so as to, as nearly as may be, strike the naso-maxillary junction, and then, by the introduction through this small cut of a very narrow chisel, to cut through the bone with a few strokes of the mallet; if the tilting action of the imbedded chisel prove insufficient to loosen the other side of the nose, it is only necessary to chisel that side also through the same incision, which is the only one required. Replacement can now he effected with ease and rapidity, and the retention of the nose in its corrected position is readily accomplished. If depression also exist, the elevation of the refraetured bone is brought about by pushing it upwards by an instru- ment from within the nose. A piece of sticking plaster rolled up with the sticky side out is now laid along the nose on its foi’merly prominent side, to form a compress, and another strip drawn across this and the face, to hold everything snugly in its place. A nose truss, a modification of that of Adams, may be worn for a few days. Dislocation of the nasal bones is a very infrequent accident, and cannot occur except as the result of direct violence, nor unless associated with dis- location of the septum. Fracture of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone may likewise coexist, and may very seriously complicate the condition, through the injury which the displacement of its fragments may infiict upon the brain or its membranes.' Considerable force is necessary to replace tlie nasal bones when dislocated backwards, mairdy because they are jammed be- tween the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones, which hold them tightly. Once replaced, however, by the same means that are used in fracture of the nasal hones, no retentive apparatus is required. Wounds op the nose, whether they be contused, incised, or lacerated, demand careful treatment, in view of the possible future deformity. In the case of incised or lacerated wounds, accurate coaptation of the edges of the wound by means of numerous fine sutures, the readjustment of the parts in their normal position, and their retention by means of delicate adhesive strips, demand careful attention and good surgical skill. Primary union is the rule, unless there be much contusion of the i>arts. The question whether an incised wound, resulting in partial or total separation of a portion of the nose, can he followed by complete union of the severed part even after it has been sepa- ratetl from the main portion of the organ fora considerable time, is answered in the affirmative by Watson,^ and a number of curious and interesting illus- trative cases are given by liim in support of this position. In any doubtful case, it will be wise, lie holds, to give the patient the benefit of the doubt. The detached portion should he carefully cleansed, the raw surface of the stump revivified by scarification, and tlie partsadapted to each other, and then retained in position by strapping—if possible without sutures. Cotton-wool steeped in collodion, used as’ a dressing to the edges of the wound, has the advantage of rendering a support to the parts which otlier dressings do not. Injuries to the nose with the lodgment of foreign bodies, are almost ex- clusively met with as the result of gunshot-wounds with penetration and lodgment of the hall. The history of the case, the presence of scars or fis- ' Longuet (On the Luxation of the Nasal Bones), Rec. de Mem. de Med., etc., tome xxxvii. p. 280. Paris, 1881. ^ Oj). cit., p. 29.').