230 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TUE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. burst, and the lens be extruded from the eye, followed by vitreous. This, of course, is destructive to vision. A hernia of the iris, however recent and limited, cannot often be reduced, even by the most prompt and skilful man- agement. If not reduced, permanent distortion of the pupil, more or less damage to sight, and indelible opacity of the cornea with synechia anterior; danger of pai-tial staphyloma of the cornea, of chronic glaucoma, and of hydrophthalmic enlargement of the eye; repeated relapses of iritis and cho- roiditis ; and finally danger to the other eye from sympathetic ophthalmia, will follow. Hence the vast importance of preventing prolapsus and saving the eye with the least possible damage to the sight. If the perforation is limited and central, the iris is much less likely to prolapse than when the ulcer is seated at or near the periphery. There is likewise a form of keratitis called neuro-paralytic, due to paralysis of tlie sensory branches of the fifth pair of nerves. In this case the cornea becomes insensible to the touch, and does not feel the presence of foreign particles. Its surface becomes dry from long and unconscious exposure to the air; inflammation, sloughing, and ulceration take place; and the eye is rapidly destroyed. This disease is not as much, if at all, due to the trophic influence of the corneal nerves as to the cornea’s unfelt exposui’e. In eases where the corneal sensibility is not entirely destroyed, the pain in this dis- ease may be intense;— On April 9, 1878, I was consulted by a lady, 54 years old, laboring under this disease of the cornea. When 19 years old she had had a “ wen ” removed from tlie left brow. It seems that the surgeon in stitching the skin injured the supra-orbital nerve, or one of its important branches. She felt it “all over her” at the instant. Total loss of feel- ing followed in the left forehead and eye. This lasted perhaps ten years, when partial sensibility returned and thus remained. There is now a linear cicatrix beginning 3 cm. from the median line, and 1 cm. above the brow, and running parallel with it. At the time of her visit she was suffering with severe pain in and around the eye, and a very distressing “ feeling of numbness.” Tension little, if at all, altered. She declared that the sight was abolished, but could not bear the use of the ophthalmoscope. There was a small ulcer a little outwards from the centre of the cornea, with some filamentous adhesions of the margins of the pupil to the lens capsule. The whole left side of the face and eye showed partial anesthesia. I treated her with occasional use of atropia, compress and bandage, and repeated paracenteses of the cornea, making thirty in all, at intervals of one or two days. She recovered at last, with fair vision, and has con- tinued well; but the imperfect feeling remains as before the attack of keratitis. A small crescentic opacity of the cornea, opposite the outer edge of the pupil, is all that remains visible now. The destructive inflammation of the cornea that comes on in low cases of typhoid fever, with comatose symptoms, and in meningitis and other exliaust- ing diseases wliicb are nearing their fatal termination, is due to the same cause, and may be often prevented by kee}fing the eyes closed and moist. The same precautions should be taken to protect the eyes in their extreme protrusion in Basedow’s disease, where sloughing of the cornea is the sad result in so many cases. Here it is due simply to inability to close the lids and protect the eye. I have already descril)ed the corneal troubles which are due to conjuncti- vitis and to granular lids, and the lesions which so often follow. Treatment of Keratitis.—First, let us consider those secondary forms that come on in the course of acute attacks of conjunctivitis. In severe cases of catarrhal conjunctivitis, with pliotopbobia, weeping, ciliary injection, and more or less severe pain, this is the com2)lication to be dreaded and guarded against. Sulphate of atropia, four grains to the ounce, .should be freely droi)ped into the eye from three to six times a day. In robust subjects, cold