INJURIES OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 107 jSIr. Hilton, in his lectures upon fractures of the cranium, relates one case where, with lesions of other cerebral nerves, the result of a severe injury to the head, the patient exhibited great difficulty 'of deglutition ; the “ tongue was thrust over to the other side; articulation was slow, and enunciation very imperfect.” Pain in the neck, upon the affected side, extending as far as the clavicle, was complained of. Recovery, leaving only slight traces of paralysis, took place after the lapse of a few months. Aphonia, dysphagia, dyspnoea, with contraction of the muscles accessory to respiration, and more or less paralysis of the pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach, were the main symptoms presented by a patient who recovered from a brain- wound, in which the glosso-pliaryngeal, pneumogastric, hypoglossal, spinal accessory and suhoccipital nerves were divided by the thrust of a lance. Finally, I shall give an aljstract of the voluminous notes of Mr. Hilton on a case of basal fracture in which the fragments became secondarily displaced, causing compression of the eighth pair of nerves. A man with basal fracture of the skull was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, and did well until the tenth day, when, after getting out of bed and walking across the ward, he had rigors, followed by vomiting, and gradually lapsed into semicoma. Later in the day, dysphagia, with a gasping respii’ation, was noticed. The difficulty of deglutition rapidly increased, until before morning “ everything was rejected as soon as it reached the pharynx.” Death resulted within forty-eight hours from coma and asphyxia. Post- mortem examination revealed a healthy state of the brain and its membranes; there were signs neither of inflammation nor of injury of the brain-tissue. The line of frac- ture passed tlirough the right jugular foramen, whence it ran across the base of the skull, dividing the posterior part of the cranium into two portions, which freely moved upon one another. The fragments were displaced in such a manner that the right cerebellar fossa was lower than the left.^ Doubtless some motion made by this patient in walking across the ward caused the bony displacement which resulted in his death. This resulted from asphyxia, as was the case in a patient of Agnew’s. In Hilton’s case it is a matter for regret that no examination of the lungs was made, to deter- mine whether there were actually pulmonary lesions as in Dr. Agnew’s patient, and as in one of Verneuil’s.^ In Agnew’s case, irregular, labored, noisy respiration, with great dulness upon per- cussion over the back of the chest, was noticed during life, and after death a blood- extravasation into the medulla oblongata, that is, into the pneumogastric centre, was discovered, with intense engorgement of both lungs.® Erichsen says that he has seen “ repeated vomitings with palpitations, and a sense of suffocation continuing for months after an apparent injury to the origin of the pneumogastric. In other cases, from lesion of the spinal acces- sory, spasm of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles, simulating tetanus, may set in.”^ Treatment.—Any special therapeutic measures seem uncalled for, since, if the lesions are due to blood-extravasations or inflammatory products, nature will suffice to cause their absorption. Mercury, hlisterings, etc., are com- monly recommended, but I cpiestion their efficacy. Iodide of potassium in the later stages may prove beneficial. Electricity, if resorted to at all after 1 Two cases are given by Sir C. Bell (Lectures on the Nervous System, Am. ed., p. 202. Cases LXII. and LXV. 1833), where sudden death resulted from secondary displacement of frag- ments of the occipital hone at the foramen magnum, causing pressure upon the medulla oblon- gata. These are cited as somewhat analogous cases, since they demonstrate the possibility of secondary displacement of bone being a cause of nerve-compression. * Lancet, Nov. 30, 1878, p. 709. ® Agnew, op. cit., vol. i. p. 278. ^ Erichsen, op. cit., vol. i. p. 551.