SUB-PARIETAL CONTUSION AND RUPTURE OF VISCERA. 873 The question of laparotomy ought to lie considered, for though the diffi- culties both of diagnosis and of discovery of the ruptui-ed point are great, yet nothing can he hoped for fi-om expectant treatment if the rupture is complete and extensive through the bowel's coats. Though life in some cases has been prolonged for many days, the result is death, though the end may be delayed. Prof. Albert,^ of Vienna, has, for some }’ears [last, laid it down as a rule, that no clearer indications for la})arotomy can be furnished than those given by riqiture of the intestine. Buptares of the Omentian and Mesentery.—Such lacerations, though rare, occur occasionally Avithout any external mark of contusion of the parietes. Prof. Gross^ mentions a fatal case of riqiture of the omentum, and in the History of the War of the Rebellion an interesting example of rupture of the mesentery is noted, in Avhich some of the intestines became strangulated in the rent. A second case, if not of rupture at least of contusion of the mesentery, followed by abscess in the abdominal Avail and mesentery, and by Sup})urative peritonitis, is related in the sameAvork. The folloAving cases are taken from the Post-mortem Record of the Middlesex Hospital:— Rupture of Mesentery and of Inner Coat of Aorta., with Retroperitoneal Extravasa- tion of Blood In December, 1880, a man, aged seventy, was admitted into the Middle- sex Hospital, under the care of Mr. Hulke, with fractures of the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs on the right side, and died the following day. There were some slight cutaneous bruises, and at the post-mortem examination some blood was found extravasated into the muscles of the left lumbar and iliac regions, and a considerable quan- tity into the muscles and tissues about the fractured ribs. The visceral and parietal peri- toneum showed signs of recent, general peritonitis, most marked on the left side of the abdominal and pelvic cavities. Pus was beginning to form upon some of the coils of intes- tine. Nearly a pint of blood was found in the peritoneal cavity, and a large clot Avas be- tween the left lohe of the liver and the dia[>hragm. The blood had come from ruptured vessels of the mesentery of the ileum, near its centre. A rent existed in this part of the mesentery, three and one-half inches in length, its edges ragged, and covered witli adhe- rent blood-clot. At several points small ecchyiyoses were seen in the mesentery; two of these, larger than the others, Avere nearly tlie size of florins. Tavo inches below the origin of the cueliac axis, a rent half an inch in length Avas found in the inner coat of the abdominal aorta ; no extravasation of blood between the coats of the aorta had occurred at this spot; the vessel, hoAvevei’, for five inches of its course along tho alido- men, was surrounded by dark clot, the source of Avhich apjieareAl to be one of the lumbar arteries Avhich Avas full of clot, though this could not be absolutely decided. (Post-mortem Report, No. 205. 1880.) In another case, admitted into the Middlesex Hospital under the care of Mr. LaAvson, in January, 1879, the mesentery, Avhich was fairly loaded Avith fat, Avas torn in three places. The largest of these lacei'ations extended about half Avay betAveen the ileum and the spine, and admitted of the jiassage of four fingers ; the margins of the rent Avere ragged, and blood Avas extravasated betAveen the folds of the membrane. The other tAvo rents were the size of sixpences, and Avere close to the larger one. There Avas no rupture of intestine or other organ. A quantity of blood Avas in the peritoneum, ami iieritonitis had commenced. The man died on the second day. (Post-mortem Reiiort, No. 4. 1879.) More or less severe extraA’'asatioii of klood must be looked for in these accidents, and is mo.st likely to prove fatal in a feAV hours. If life is pro- longed, the edges of the AA onnd may he healed hy adhesions Avith adjacent parts, hut if suppuration once occurs, it is jirone to spread Avide and far in the loose tissues of cither mesentery or omentum. ' Wien. med. Woch., No. 47. 1881. * System of Surgery, Am!, ii. p. (J79.