132 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. Treatment.—These vascuhTr tumors are most difficult to cure, and are very intractable to any treatment. Should the cirsoid aneurism show no tendency to increase, give no great inconvenience to the patient, and threaten no imme- diate danger, it had better be let alone, being merely protected by a suitable cap or disk. With regard to operative measures, the following may be placed among those that have been tried and discarded as of little or no value; compression, ligature of the separate vessels entering the mass, and ligature of the external carotid of the same side. Ligature of the common carotid has had but indifferent success, lleineke’ states that only three cases of cure have resulted in thirty-two instances in which this operation has been performed. [I)r. Wyeth’s statistics, though not quite so unfavorable, also show that this o})eration should be reserved for exceptional cases.^] The treatment to be advised in these cases is mainly directed against the mass itself. If the cirsoid aneurism be quite small, it may be ligatured en masse. This has been successful, but ligature of larger tumors, and the practice of partial ligature, or ligature of successive portions, is not to be advised. Galvano-puncture also may be tried, and has been successful. It can at least do little harm. If these measures fail or be inadmissible, the best results are obtained from excision of the vdiole mass. This operation, to be successful, should be preceded by ligature of the common carotid artery, or by the adoption of some local means to arrest hemorrhage. This object is best attained by ap}>lying acupressure to the entire periphery of the tumor by a number of needles. After the mass has been excised, the needles should be withdrawn one by one and tlie separate vessels ligatured as exposed. Of all operations for the relief of cirsoid aneurism of the scalp, that of exci- sion has certainly met with the greatest amount of success. Aneurism of the Arteries of the Scalp.—Aneurism is very rarely met with on the scalp, and in all the recorded cases appears to have been of trau- matic origin. The tumor is most commonly situated on the temporal artery, though cases are also recorded of aneurism of the posterior auricular and occi- pital arteries. These aneurisms seldom attain a great size, few being larger than a hazel-nut, and they give, as a rule, little or no trouble. They are apt to hollow out the bone, and the skin over them may become so thinned as to lead to rupture of the sac. The tumor being very superficial, the sjunptoms are most characteristic. As a rule, they are readily cured. In some cases compression has etfeeted this end,^ and this sinqde treatment may at least be tried in any instance. If this fail, the artery should be ligatured on either side of the aneurism, or the “ old operatioii” performed. Arterio-venous aneurisms are very rare on the scalp. Ileineke could only find records of five cases. Of these, four concerned the temporal artery and vein, and one the posterior auricular vessels. In every instance there had been an injury. These tumors do not tend to attain great size, and they give but little trouble. If small, not increasing, and attended by no real incon- venience, they may be let alone. If for any reason an operation is demanded, the most successful consists in excising the entire mass, and ligaturing all tlie vessels concerned. In one case, Chelius^ thought fit to tie the common caro- tid for an arterio-venous aneurism of the temple. Benefit followed, but it was only temporary. • Loc. cit., S. 30. 2 [See Dr. Wyeth’s table of 73 cases (82 operations) in Vol. III. pp. 358 et seq.'\ 3 See case by M. Mirault, Gazette des Hupitaux, No. 147. 1860. Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 271.