INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 10 of symptoms are siiperaddecl, such as rigors, dyspnoea, etc., or when they have existed coincidently with those first given, tlie veins of the scalp or diploe near the injury will be found filled with pus. Ilewett also says that “ the veins on the surface of the hemispheres are sometimes loaded with pus, and so too., and much more commonly, is the superior longitudinal sinus.” In other words, we liave the symptoms of pytenjia superadded to those of local osteo-myelitis of the cranium, intracranial suppuration, meningitis, and cere- bral abscess. Pyiemia may arise from a simple scalp wound, but bone con- tusion from a slight head injury is the most common cause. I have described the symptoms of inti’acranial suppuration, meningitis, etc., with those of pypemia, since although the brain and its membranes may remain perfectly liealthy, the association of the two morbid conditions is much more common. The diagnosis between them, especially in their earlier stages, when no signs of pyannia exist in other parts of the body, is exceedingly difficult. Diagnosis.—1\\ intracranial suppuration the earliest symptoms are apt to be those of meningeal and cerebral irritation, such as slight vertigo, head- ache, abnormal sensibility to light and sound, rigidity of the cervical muscles, broken and restless sleep, and a hard pulse of increased frequency. Sub- sequently, when s3'in})toms of cerebral compression and paralj’sis occur, the diagnosis is usually clear enough. Upon the other hand, when pj’jemia arises from suppurative osteom^^elitis, it is so commonl}^ preceded or attended b^' intracranial suppuration, that I think that man}’’ cases have been correctly regarded at first as non-]>3*?emic, which afterwards have become septic, so that we are left in doubt to which disease any one symptom or set of sjmip- toms belongs, and are thus deprived of reliable data for a difierential diag- nosis. Pynemia, although attended h}" malaise, slight headache, fever, etc., is not usually preceded by signs of cerebral indtation, but is succeeded by them. I must candidly confess that the distinctions which I have emphasized can he rarely drawn in practice as sharply as I have indicated them, but I am convinced that when a difierential diagnosis is possible in the earl}^ stages of these affections, it can only be made l)y following out the line of thought and investigation just suggested. As to the value of the “ puffy tumor” of Pott, I would say that it is sim[)ly indicative of a suppurative periostitis, or osteo- mj’elitis, and tliat upon its appearance alone, or the spontaneous secession of the periosteum in an open wound, we cannot predicate separation of the dura mater and suhcranial suppuration; hut if such appearances coincide with paralj'tic, irritative, or convulsive sjmiptoms on the opposite side of the body, supposing that the injury is in the anterior parietal region, the proba- bilities amount nearly to certainty that trephining will reveal suhcranial or subdural suppuration, either immediately beneath, or near the diseased hone. Upon the other hand, should, in a case of bone contusion, the local signs of what the older authors thought suhcranial suppuration, occur over the occiput, with hemiplegia or other paralysis, or convulsive movements on the side of injury, trephining would do no good, and the bone changes would really only be indicative of local periostitis, with injury or disease of some distant part of the encephalon.^ A reference to the section on cerebral localization will indicate the facts upon which I found these con- clusions.^ Treatment.—This should be mainly preventive. In any head injurj- involv- ing a chance of bone contusion, the case should he closely watched, for, as has been well said, no injury of the head is so slight as to be despised, nor so ' Liston, Lectures on the Operations of Surgery, etc., edited by Mutter, p. 76. Philadelphia, 1846. 2 See also sections on traumatic meningitis, cerehritis, etc.