801 CONTUSIONS OF THE CHEST. ting; countenance mucli depressed ; sweating profusely; dreadful pain in the epigas- trium. On examination, the left side of the chest was found to be tympanitic, with respiratory murmur very feeble ; the heart displaced to the right side of the sternum ; and extensive dulness over the lower portion of the left side of the chest. There had been as yet no haemoptysis, no trace of external emphysema, no audible metallic tink- ling or amphoric resonance ; neither did the ecchymosis described by Valentin exist in the lumbar region. On the 21st, in spite of the free administration of opium, his suffering was extreme ; it was hardly possible to examine him, so incessant were his cries, “ oh, my poor belly ! open it and let the wind out.” As there was no doubt as to the fact that blood and air were pent up in the cavity of the left pleura, it was determined, in consultation, to relieve the patient by tapping. .Just before proceeding to perform this operation, metallic tinkling and amphoric resonance were heard for the first time, leaving no doubt as to the existence of a wound of the lung. The trocar was introduced two inches external to the nipple ; twenty-two and a half ounces of fluid blood (which afterwards coagulated firmly) were drawn off, besides a large quantity of air ; the canula was retained in its place, guarded by a valve of membrane to prevent the ingress of air, but permitting the escape of fluid, whicfi dropped away freely all day. The relief to the patient was complete ; his pulse ceased to intermit, and he slept soundly. He became, however, gradually weaker, and died (the right lung being attacked by bronchitis) on the tenth day from that on which the injury was received. At the post-mortem examination the heart was found displaced, and the mediastinum pushed over, while a considerable quantity of gas occu[)ied the left pleural cavity ; at least three <pjarts of blood were contained in the cavity of the left pleura also. The lung was lacerated in a terrible way, a large portion of it being nearly torn off, but no rib was broken. Some of the blood on the up{)er surface of the diaphragm had coagu- lated, but the greater part of it was quite fluid. It appeared as if a part of the lung had been adherent when rent off by the shock. The lung was collapsed and lying against the spine.* In this case the rupture was extreme, and the detaclied portion of the linig was adherent to the chest-wall ; here, therefore, there was no necessity to call in an occluded glottis to explain the rent in the lung, the piece being evi- dently torn otf, not burst asunder by compression of the air in the lung. It is hard to explain the delay of the development of the pneumo-thorax and of the hemorrhage into the pleura. The character of the observer precludes any doubt as to the accuracy of the record. The mechanism of rupture occurring when a portion of the lung is adhe- rent, is the same as that of ruptured pericardium, a tearing of a membrane or tissue under severe and sudden traction. Raptures of the heart and pericardium^ as the result of contusions of the chest without external wound, occur most commonly as the direct result of frac- tures of the ribs or sternum, hut ample records exist to establish the possi- bility of almost any kind or degree of rupture independent of fracture of the chest-wall. Tlie most marked example, to which I have already referred, is thus re))orted by Casper,^ in proof not only of tlie possibility of such injury occurring without fracture, but without marking of the surface of the body:— Complete separation of the heart from its attachments is indubitably one of the rarest discoveries at an autopsy. A dealer in glass, aged 24, in crossing the heights of Spandau on a bitterly cold night in winter, had got off his wagon, heavily laden with' boxes ot glass, for the purpose of leading his horse down hill; the wagon, however, began to slide, and crushed the unfortunate man, unquestionably with the greatest violence, against one ot the poplars which there border the highway ; and there he 1 McDoiinell, Trans. Pathological Society of Dublin, vol. ii., N. S., 1864. 2 Handbook of the Practice of Forensic Medicine, New Sydenham Society’s Translation, vol. i. page 112. London, 1861. VOL. V.—.51