ANATOMY OP THE EYE. 173 fibres as they lose their opaque sheaths. A third covering, between these two, very delicate, and in close relation to the outer or dural sheath, is now described. All the tunics of the brain are thus represented as continued in the sheath of the optic nerve. The intervaginal space, continuous with the subarachnoid spaces of the brain, is liable to serous intiltration from the brain, causing compression of the nerve-trunk. The constriction of the nerve in piercing the lamina cribrosa of the sclera, the sudden bending of the individual fibres as they pass into the retina, the canal in its axis for the central artery of the retina, as well as the opening in the choroid, are all well seen in the annexed cut. (Fig. 845.) Fig. 846 shows a transverse section of the optic nerve. The central artery of the retina pierces the sheath, ahout half an inch behind the eye, passes to the axis of the cord, and follows it till it enters the fundus and divides into its retinal expansions. The main trunks of the retinal arteries and veins enter and emerge from the centre of the optic papilla. Fig. 847. Diagram sliowiug shape of eyeball. (After Merkel.) Eyeball.—In form, the eyeball is very nearly a globe, whence its name. The antero-posterior diameter measures aboiit 24 mm., the horizontal 23.5 mm., and the vertical 23 mm. (Merkel). Just back of the selero- corneal junction, the globe is retracted as by a tight cord. (Fig. 847.) From the centre of the cornea to the deepest part of this constriction, the curvature is greater than that of the rest of the globe. The back lialf of the eye is much more uniform in curvature than the front. The shape and firmness of the ball are maintained by the outer tunic. This thick, dense coat is composed of two parts, continuous by their constituent elements, but dif- fering greatly in their physical properties. The one, the sclera, is opaqne like tendon ; the other, the cornea, is clear like fine glass. The sclera forms a little more than four-fifths, and the cornea the rest, of this strong, in- vesting coat. The sclera is thickest posteriorly, Avliere it is pierced by the optic nerve, and reinforced by its outer sheath, measuring here 1 mm. For- wards it grows thinner, till again reinforced by the expanded and laterally blending tendons of the four recti muscles. The sclera is a dense, fibrous, white membrane, composed of fibi’es of connective tissue, rigidly intenvoA^en in all directions, but running mostly at riglit angles to each other. The portion seen in front, is called the white of the eye. At the point of penetration of the optic nerve, the sclera is thin and pierced by numerous small holes for the passage of the bundles of optic nerve fibres. This Aveakened ring of sclera, Avhich plays such an important part in glaucoma, is called the lamina cri- bi’osa. It is that Avhich gives the stippled appearance to the optic papilla, Avhen seen Avith the aid of the ophthalmoscope. It is situated a trifle beloAv the horizontal meridian, and 4 mm. to the nasal side of the posterior pole. Its diameter is about 1.5 mm. In its entire outer surface, the sclera is embraced by tlie capsule of Tenon, to which it is loosely connected by elastic tissue, alloAving of the greatest freedom of motion. The ball rotates in this capsule, much as the head of the femur moves in the acetabulum. In front, the sclera encroaches someAAdiat on the cornea^ especially above and below. For this reason the coi'nea appears oval horizontally, when viewed anteriorly, but circular when seen from behind. Hear its inner sur- face, close in front of the iris and just behind the sclero-corneal junction, lies the circular, flattened canal called the sinus venosus, the canal of Schlemm, and, by Leber, the plexus ciliaris. Close in front of this venous