INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 82 incised, and in a few hours or days nature ruptured the superjacent hrain- suhstance, and, the pus having escaped externally, recovery ensued. Here, as elsewhere, a brief accoinit of a few selected cases will convey my idea better than a mere general description:— A child nine years old, suffering from a compound depressed fracture of the frontal bone, was trephined by Petit. Headache and fever set in on the night of the fifth day, and on the following day the dura mater, distended and discolored, bulged into the opening. A tablespoonful of brown, fetid fluid was evacuated by incision of the dura mater, but the symptoms steadily increased up to the night of the eleventh day, when rapid improvement occurred, and it was found that a large abscess had burst and satu- rated the dressings with offensive matter. Complete recovery ensued in two months.* Dr. Joseph Pancoast trephined in a case where the altered dura mater puffed up through the trephine-opening. Incising this, allowed the softened brain-substance to pout through the wound. Urgent symptoms being absent, although a sensation of distinct fluctuation was felt, nothing further was done. The abscess opened spontaneously next day, and the patient improved for two weeks, more or less pus being constantly dis- charged. On the sixteenth day, owing to obstruction to the flow of pus—as was proved by an autopsy—death resulted. The abscess communicated with the posterior horn of the opposite ventricle.^ Acquaintance with these facts logically leads us a step further, and, an abscess of the hrain-suhstance having been diagitosticated, an incision would seem indicated to evacuate the matter, just as it would be in a case of subcu- taneotts phlegmon. Examination of the records of our art shows that this practice has been repeatedly adopted. Thus among others I find the follow- ing apposite cases:— An officer was struck by a pistol-ball, which grooved the outer table of the left frontal bone. Marked symptoms of encephalitis set in on the tenth day, but subsided under treatment. In consequence of excesses of diet, intense headache, rigors, etc., de- clared themselves upon the twenty-third day, followed in seventy-two hours by con- vulsions, aphasia, right hemiplegia, and coma. Upon the twenty-ninth day after injury. Surgeon J. F. Weeds trephined over the left frontal eminence, and found a small scale of the inner table lying loose upon the slightly lacerated dura mater. An incision was made into the substance of the brain, evacuating half an ounce of green, offensive pus, when the symptoms of compression disappeared in ten hours, and recovery ensued.® Dupuytren had a patient who had been wounded by a knife-blade on the top of the head. The weapon broke off short in the bone, and the fragment was overlooked by the surgeon who first dressed the wound. This healed, and no trouble, save occa- sional pains about the scar, followed for over two years, when the man suddenly became unconscious, and in that condition was admitted into the Hotel-Dieu. Examination of the old scar and subsequent incision revealed the point of the knife imbedded in the bone. He was trephined without relief, and opposite hemiplegia made its appear- ance. Incision of the dura mater revealing nothing, Dupuytren plunged his knife deeply into the brain, whereby a large quantity of pus was evacuated; the symptoms disappeared, and the patient ultimately recovered.* Upon the other hand, an equally favorable opportunity for surgical interference pre- sented itself to De la Peyronie, but was lost; and with it the patient’s life, by the declination of further operative interference after the dura mater had been incised without discovering pus. In this case, the autopsy revealed an abscess immediately below the trephine-opening, only three or four lines beneath the surface.® 1 J. L. Petit, op. cit., p. 354. 2 Treatise on Operative Surgery, 2d ed., p. 106. s Nashville Journal of Medicine and Surgery, April, 1872. ■* Lemons Orales, 2e ed., tome vi. p. 146. ® Memoires de I’Academie Royale de Chirurgie, tome i. p. 319. Paris, 1743.