96 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. pair of Hey’s saws (Figs. 838, 839), and gouge-forceps* (the rongeur^ as it is sometimes called), or a pair of small, cutting bone-forceps.^ Some surgeons prefer to use the lenticular (Fig. 840), to elevate the bone and smooth the Fig. 837. Tiepbine-brush. Fig. 838. Fig. 839. Two forms of Hey’s saw. Fig. 840. edges of the trephine-cut; but I have never seen any necessity for its use, as an elevator in careful hands is perfectly safe, and its rough, serrated edges serve admirably to file away, as it were, any inequalities left by fragments of the brittle inner table, which may have been left at the periphery of the aper- ture. The rongeur is an admirable instrument, and, where it can be used, serves a better purpose than the trejihine or Iley’s saw, in removing an over- hanging shelf of bone, while it is a more rapid and safer instrument. Of the two forms of trephine, the conical, commonly called Galt’s, is the safer, since from its form it is almost impossible for it to injure the brain, if, as the last portions of the inner table are divided, undue pressure should be made; while under these circumstances the old form of instrument has occasionally been accidentally plunged into the brain-substance. There is a theoretical objec- tion to the conical instrument—viz., that from the uneven division of the outer and inner portions of the skull, necrosis is more apt to occur—but I am unaware of any facts to support the assertion that such is the case. The instruments should be placed in a solution of carbolic acid, one part to twenty of water, and the scalp cleansed by a solution of turpentine two parts, alcohol fourteen parts. The sponges should be kept in corrosive sublimate, one part to two thousand, with which solution the wound also should be kept more or less constantly irrigated. In most cases of compound fracture, fiaps formed by incisions, regulated somewhat by the original wound, will readily expose the bone; indeed, in 1 See Vol. IV. p. 452, Pig. 686. 2 A few American surgeons are enthusiastic in their advocacy of the dental engine instead of the trephine in removing portions of the skull. Having had no personal acquaintance with this method of operating, I can neither commend nor condemn it.