430 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. recommended either for their safety or certainty—they avoid disfigurement, but do not guarantee success. Osteo-plastic resections cause less deformity than ordinary excisions. Lan- genbecltS first method^ namely, that which consists in resection of the nasal hones, has been performed several times with success, and is adapted espe- cially to those cases in which the tumor occupies the nasal cavity, rather than the pharynx, and in which the attachments are well forwards. It certainly would not afford the requisite facility for reaching tumors which occupy the usual situation, as an examination of the cadaver alone will show. Langen- beck's second operation., in which portions of the malar and superior maxillary hones are temporarily displaced, is admirably adapted to the removal of those polypi which originate in the pterygo-maxillary fossa, and it is for this pur- pose that it was originally designed. But though it has been also done success- fully for naso-pharyngeal polypi, it is inferior to several other procedures for this purpose. The operation itself is difficult of execution, unless the spheno- palatine foramen is abnormally dilated ; and the pharynx is very imperfectly exposed, owing to the presence of the pterygoid process. These objections will prevent the operation from being extensively adopted. lluguier'’s operation has been performed by its inventor, and, with slight modifications, by Cheever. Both patients recovered. The liability to recur- rence of the disease after removal offers a strong argument against osteo- plastic operations generally. Houx’s operation involves great mutilation of the facial hones, and does not afford satisfactory access to the pharynx. To expose a tumor having broad attachments, it would be necessary to displace the maxillary and malar bones on both sides of the face, thereby greatly increasing the risks of the operation. Cheever's operation [which involved both upper jaws] is ingenious, and, although it terminated fatally in the first instance in which it was per- formed, Sands agrees with its originator in thinking that there is no danger inherent in the operation itself that ought to prevent its repetition. [A suc- cessful case has since been reported by Tiffany.] The objections that apply to partial or total excisions of the upper jaw, as a preliminary operation, are mainly owing to the disfigurement which they produce; in partial excision this is but slight. Sands remarks that these operations as a class, are remarkably successful. Lincoln,* that the result of a study of the table of cases^ accompanying his paper, suggests a doubt as to the propriety of this conclusion. It will be found that among 28 cases treated by a section of the bones of the face, in several instances the growths returned, necessitating a repetition of the operation or the substitution of some other; and also that in 8 cases, or more than 28 per cent., death followed immedi- ately, or in a few days. Excision of the jaw certainly affords easier access to the pharynx than any of the other methods, and thus enables the operator to attack the pedicle with the maximum chances of success; accordingly, the probability of a recur- rence will be correspondingly diminished. Heither the procedures through the mouth, nor any of the osteo-plastic procedures which have been described, permit that satisfactory exposure of the base of the skull which is afforded either by partial or total resection of the superior maxilla. From what has elsewhere been said, it must be evident that ample space is necessary, both for the extirpation of the tumor and for the prompt arrest of the hemorrhage that so often accompanies its removal. Another advantage of ordinary excision is, that a wide gap is left after the operation, through which the disease, should it recur, can be readily recognized and treated. Op. cit. 2 This table is reproduced ou page 431.