SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. 1077 by the vermicular contraction of the muscular coat of the ureter, aided too, perhaps, by the retching and vomiting which its transit excites—renal colic sets in. The attacks of renal colic come on suddenly, last for hours or days, and almost as suddenly subside; to recur at some future period if the stone, instead of escaping at the lower end of the ureter, is simply displaced from the upper orifice into some less important point in the renal pelvis. Recur- ring attacks of colic arise also from fresh formations of renal calculus. I had a gentleman under observation, some time ago, who had had three distinct and severe attacks of colic; each lasted about three days, and they came on at almost time-regulated intervals of six months. From tlnrty-six to forty-eight hours after each attack, a small, irregularly rounded, smooth-surfaced calculus was voided with the urine. He was placed upon a regulated diet, and ordered soda water, with bicarbonate of sodium added to it, as a daily drink; and he has had no attack since—now nearly two years. During these attacks the pain shoots down the course of the liranclies of the lumbar plexus, and is felt in the bladder, in the groin, along the thigh, or in the testicle. The testicle may be retracted at the time, and afterwards become enlarged, and may remain for a long while tender if not painful. Women have occasionally aborted, men have committed suicide, and both men and women have been thrown into convulsions during the fearful agony of renal colic. The attack is often ushered in with a rigor, and is generall}^ accompanied by vomiting, retching, and profuse perspii'ation. Faintness and collapse are by no means rare. The bladder is irritable; and the urine, which is diminished in cpiantity during an attack, is blood-stained and loaded with urates, and is sometimes passed with a good deal of scalding in the urethra. It sometimes happens that the otlier kidney becomes excited to increased secretion during the attack, and then the urine will not be diminished in quantity, and will not be thick. AVhen the patient is very thin and the stone large, it can sometimes be de- tected on palpation of the loin. It is important to know, Avith a view to surgical treatment, Avhether one or botli kidneys are the seat of stone. There is usually not much difficulty in this, unless of course a stone is lying dormant in one kidney whilst symp- toms are excited by the stone in the other; but it is necessary to bear i}i mind that a stone in one kidney will sometimes excite sympathetic pain and irritation in the other. This transferred or sympathetic pain is of an aching cliaracter, and not of a spasmodic or colicky description, as tar as I have seen. Treatment.—The treatment of renal calculus may be considered under three heads: (1) Prophylactic; (2) Palliative ; and (3) Surgical or curative. (1) Prophylaxis consists in employing a moderate amount of well-selected food, so as to preserve the digestive and assimilative functions in good order. Animal diet is not harmful if taken in moderation ; nor is abstinence trom an animal diet any security against calculus, as is proved liy the preva- lence of this disorder amongst the very poor, Avho scarcely taste meat. Im- moderate eating, and an excess of animal or nitrogeni/.ed food, unquestionably conduce to the formation of renal calculus, and each individual ought to ascer- tain for himself what is moderation in his ])articular case, according to his mode of living, amount of exercise, and peculiarities of system. (2) If a tendency to gravel or calculus is evinced, tlie free use of alkaline drinks is recommended as a palliative measure ; so also is the employment of saline aperients, such as sulphate of sodium an<l magnesium, acetate of potas- sium, citrate ot potassium, carbonate of lithium, or carbonate of lime; and the tai'tratesot potassium and sodium are also recommended. These remedies have, however, only a temporary effect; and for the most part the symptoms and the formation ot calculous matter return soon after the discontinuance of the