679 FISTULA OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. influences, sobbing, etc., tbe pbenomenon was said to occur at other times without any appreciable exciting cause. Diagnosis.—Occasionally, it is said, the internal orifice can be detected laryngoscopically, but tbe only exemplification at my immediate command is the case of Young and Thornton, above alluded to. AVlien not so discernible without other aid, the opening can lie detected, it is said, after the passage of a bright silver probe through the track, or after the injection of a colored liquid. Only exceptionally, however, can a probe be insinuated into the trachea. Of all the cases cited by Dzondi,* all of which, it may be mentioned, occurred in females, in one only had the probe been passed without doubt into the tracliea. The expulsion of air-bubbles, on voluntary effort with nose and mouth elosed,^ is exceptionally an additional factor in diagnosis. The frequent absence of this physical sign allows the case to be confounded Avitli one of pharyngeal fistula. Prognosis.—The cure of a congenital fistula is ahvays doubtful. Thornton cured his patient by electrolysis. Treatment.—The methods employed comprise irritant injections with solu- tions of iodine, carbolic acid, nitric acid, and acid nitrate of mercury ; cauter- ization with a probe dipped into nitric acid ; cauterization with the galvano- caustic point, or with a red-hot copper wire passed through a small canula previously slidden through, over a probe; electrolysis; and excision of the fistulous track. In a case of congenital fistula of the larynx, in a young gentleman upon whom I performed the latter operation, a fresli fistulous track formed subsequently, and opened in an adjoining spot; but it yielded much less secretion than the original one. Pathological fistulze are laryngeal much oftener than tracheal. They occur as the result of incompletely healed abscesses, and of incompletely cicatrized wounds and perforations. The aliscesses follow pericliondritis and chondritis, terminating in caries and necrosis, whether from typhosis, tuberculosis,^ syphilis,^ lupus,® morbid growth,® foreign body in the air-]>as- sage or oesophagus, or external compression by an enlarged gland or morbid growth. The wounds are usually suicidal, sometimes homicidal, sometimes accidental, and occasionally surgical. Fistulie after suicidal Avounds are not infrequently due to interference with the dressings by the patient’s OAvn hands. Perichondritis, chondritis, caries and necrosis, sometimes form the pathological sequence, as in fistula from disease. Connective tissue hyperplasias often occur in the softer tissues, and thus stricture of the larynx may coexist. When resulting from intra-laryngeal neoplasm, the fisttda usually occupies the cricothyroid memlirane, Avhich undergoes absorption in some instances, and ulcerative perforation in others. When the result of a wound, it is due to incomplete closure, as in suicidal incised Avounds, or to cxtensiA^e ulcera- tion and necrosis, as in gunshot Avounds. Under these circumstances, the orifice is sometimes very large, as in the case mentioned on page 039, and it ' De fistulis traolieJB congenitis. Hal.-e, 1829 ; cited Ly Riegel. 2 Ammon, Die aiigeboreiien chirnrgisclien Kraiiklieiteu der Mensclieii. Berlin, 1842 ; cited by Riegel. ® Krieg, Wiener niedizinisclie Zeitung, 1880 ; cited by R. de la Sota (Rev. Med. de Sevilla, tomo iii. No. 33. 1883.) Lell'erts, Arcliives of Laryngology, Jan. 1883, p. 53 ; R. de la Sota, loc. cit. (From a suppurating gumma in tbe inl'ra-byoid region.) ® K. II. Bennett, Brit. Med. Jour., Feb. 25, 1882, p. 273; continued in Dub. Jour. Med. Sci., July, 1882, p. 81 ; and private confirmatory note, Nov. 10, 1882. ® R. de la Sota (Arcliives of Medicine, April, 1884, No. 2) reports a case originating in a pre- tliyroidal cyst.