INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 782 that it occupies in the dead sulpect' {cadaveric position^ Ziemssen), that is to say, nearly midway between its extremes of excursion. When both sets of fibres are not involved, the paralj’sis is mucli the more frecpient in the domain of the filaments which supply the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles (paralysis of abductor muscles), and the vocal hand is unalDle to leave the plionatory position in the middle line. When the paralysis is confined to the domain of the filaments which supply the lateral crico-aiytenoids, the arytenoid, and tlie thj'roid-aiytenoid—a very rare combination (paralysis of adductor muscles)—the vocal band remains immobile in the position of ex- treme inspiration.^ Although paralysis of the dilator muscles {abductors, Mackenzie) of the glottis had long been recognized^ and its clinical aspects appreciated, its general pathological significance had escaped detection until announced by Semon, in a well-conceived and well-Avritten clinical essay,'* “ On the pro- clivity of the abductor fibres of the recurrent laryngeal nerve to become afiected sooner than the adductor fibres, or even exclusively, in cases of un- doubted central or peripheral injury or disease of the roots or trunks of the pneumogastric, spinal accessory, or recurrent nerves.” In a less Avell-cou- ceived but equally well-written article,® Di‘. Semon expresses the opinion that the dilators of the glottis always sutler first in organic diseases of the centre, or of the ti’act of the motor laryngeal nerves, by reason, as he intimates, of a physiological necessity which precludes the occurrence of initial or exclusive paralysis of the constrictors {adductors, Mackenzie) as a result of organic nerve lesion. From this sweeping conclusion I must dissent, or confess an inability to discriminate between the position of the vocal bands in extreme abduction—thei]’ position during forced inspiration—and their position in relaxation {cadaveric position, Ziemssen). A pair of rude sketches (Figs. 1098 and 1099), reproduced from the first edition of my work on Diseases of the Throat, etc.,® in illustration of unilateral paralysis in a case of aneurism of the aorta, the significance of which was unappreciated at the time, are sufli- ciently characteristic to show that the vocal band is in extreme abduction ; but some artistic drawings of the laryngoscopic images (Figs. 1100, 1101, 1102) in a case of paralysis of the left vocal band in extreme abduction, fol- lowing an incised wound of the neck, and recently reported to the American Laryngological Association,^ better illustrate the position referred to, although they have been somewhat spoiled in their reproduction on wood. Mackenzie has met Avith one case in Avhicli pai’alysis of the adductors Avas ' Tuerck, op. cit., S. 442. 2 For normal picture of extreme inspiration, see Fig. 1047, p. 684. ® Gerhardt, Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. xxvii., S. 68, 296. 186'3. * Archives of Laryngology, July, 1881, p. 197. ^ Berliner klin. Woch., No. 46. 1883. ® Op. cit., p. 466. New York, 1872. ■ New York Medical Journal, July 26, 1884. Fig. 1098. Fig. 1099. During respiration.