DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 850 the stem of the plant, half of this to he taken in twenty-four hours; or a talhespoonful of Scpiire’s expressed juice three times a day. The adminis- tration of general sedatives by the mouth or rectum, or by subcutaneous injec- tion, is advisable in cases attended by much sutfering which cannot otherwise be relieved. The particular form of sedative, and the manner of its use, must depend upon the special conditions and tolerance of the patient. Local applications of a caustic or irritating nature ought never to be applied, unless with the object of thoroughly and at once destroying the whole diseased mass, and even ‘under these circumstances their use should be confined to cases in which tlie patients object to the knife. Topical remedies, when used, should be of a soothing nature, and among the best of them are warm water, bella- donna, and sugar of lead; the two latter may be used as lotions, or in the form of a plaster, according to the nature of the case. It is important, also, to prevent any undue or irritating pressure upon the tumor, by means ol proper arrangement of the dress. In cases where ulceration or sloughing is present, and when the case is not suitable for operation, or the patient declines to have an operation, non-irritating a}(plications should still be the rule. When there is much ofiensive discharge, the application of a charcoal or elm poul- tice is often useful in cleansing and soothing the sore. Boracic-acid lotion, boracic ointment, or ecpial parts of boracic ointment and vaseline, are also good applications; these latter dressings may be covered witli layers of salicylic wool, carbolized wool, or antiseptic marine lint. Gross advises as a deodorizer, and also for relieving pain,an ointment consisting of five grains of chloral hydrate to one ounce of cosmoline. Esnyarch uses a powder composed of arsenious acid and muriate of morphia (of each 0.25), calomel 2.0, and poAvdered gum Arabic 12. Half a teaspoon- ful of the powder is daily sprinkled on the surface. When bleeding takes place from the ulcerated or sloughing surface, some styptic should be ajAplied if simple cold does not stay the hemorrhage. A piece of lint or cotton- Avadding soaked in a solution of alum or tannin, or in the tincture of the muriate of iron, or in a mixture of ecpial parts of tincture of perchloride of iron and glycerine, should be applied to the bleeding point. In several cases of feeble and old patients suffering from a limited, ulcerating, and offensive cancer of the breast, I have, Avith the tliermo-eautery, freely removed the idcer and surrounding disease, Avithout attempting to take aAvay the Avhole breast. Tavo of these patients Avere 84 years of age, and m both instances a healthy, granulating sore Avas the result, and much comfoi’t Avas given to the patients and their friends. When the arm is SAvollen and oedematons, it should be supported by means of a comfortable sling, and the application of a cotton- elastic bandage around the Avhole limb should be tried, and continued if found to be useful. Gentle friction upAvards of the Avhole arm often assists in I’elieving congestion and promoting the venous circulation. Operative Treatment.—It has already been said that statistics proA-e that an operation prolongs life in many instances; and the most recent experience undoubtedly shoAVS that early interference and more complete methods of opei-ating, tend to still further prolong life, and to make this formidable disease less rebellious to treatment. The late IMr. Moore^ directed attention to the importance of removing not only the breast, but all the surrounding Textures and lynpdiatic glands. Gross is of opinion that even in cases of circumscribed tumors this proceeding should be carried out. I)r. Mitchell Banks, of Liverpool, in an interesting paper on this subject,^ after remarking that the axillary glands may often be affected Avithout being felt externally, adds that from his experience, “ in every case Avhere the breast is removed. ■ Med.-Chir. Trans., 1867. 2 Brit. Med. .Journal, December 9, 1882.