1082 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. constituents are seldom interfered with. Though there is no dropsy or ascites, other organs, and especially the liver and spleen, share in this degene- ration, and, as a rule, but not invariably, these organs are more advanced in the morbid changes than the kidney. The complexion of a person who is the subject of amyloid viscera becomes waxy or pasty, the strength is wasted, the flesh is lost, and the blood is impoverished, so that the white corpuscles are increased, as they are in cancer and other wasting disorders, while it becomes, too, more watery. As a rule, the cause of the amyloid change is also the cause of death before the amyloid aflection is itself sufliciently advanced to prove fatal; but in exceptional instances death occurs from anjemia, or ursemia, brought on by the amyloid degeneration of the kidney and other organs combined. On the other liand, if the cause of the amyloid changes is removed, as by amputation, excision of a joint, etc., it is remarkable how soon and to what a degree the morbid processes recede, and the organs return to something like their natural perfectness. Besides the liver and spleen, the bloodvessels of the gastric and intestinal mucous membrane, and the lymph-glands, are frequently the seat of amyloid changes; mid the serous membranes are prone to become inflamed. Treatynent.—The most important indication is to remove the cause of the degenerative cliahges. Hence, if syphilis exists, it should be treated ; and if suppuration is going on, it should if possible be arrested. Thus caries and necrosis, joint-disease, and fistulous communications with deep-seated abscesses should be dealt with, and if possible cured. In not a few cases the albumen in the urine will disappear, and the enlarged solid abdominal viscera will shrink to a noi’mal size, after the cause of suppuration is efliciently removed. Tumors of the Kidney.—The kidney is liable to many morbid new growths of a cystic and solid character, both benign and malignant. Several of these, however, do not attain to any size, nor cause the kidney to become apprecia- bly if at all enlarged. Thus, adenoma^ which occurs in two forms in the kidney—the papillary and the alveolar—is usually the size of a hazel-nut, or walnut, but seldom, if ever, as large as an egg or small oi-ange; cmgeiomata cavernosa^ though distinct formations or new growths of reticulated cavern- ous tissue, are of quite small size, not exceeding that of a marble, and though called tumors, the parts which they aflect are often shrunken, rather than pro- jecting or enlarged ; leukmnic tumors are small, scattered, roundish patches of I^’inphoid cells, following the course of the capillary vessels, and looking not un- like extravasated white blood-cells, thougli they are sometimes actively grow- ing tumors of a truly malignant chaj’acter; lynqduulenoma is found in the kidney, associated with similar disease of the glands, liver, and intestine ; fibroma occurs “ in the form of small white knots of fibrous tissue, near the bases of the pyramids” (Moxon), but occasionally, in the kidney, there has been found a very large, simply flbrous tumor; villous jjapilloma occurs in the pelvis of the kidney, as it does in the urinary bladder, and in a case met with in the post-mortem room of the Middlesex Hospital there were villous growths in the kidney and bladder of the same person; syphilitie gummata occur oc- casionally, but do not attain such a bulk as to greatly increase the dimensions of the xidney ; various sized and numerous cysts, as in granular kidney, are present, without adding to the size of the organ. Though pathologically of the nature of “ tumors,” most of the above-men- tioned new formations never, others only rarely, give rise to tumors clinically speaking. Clinically, any enlargement of the kidney whicli can be detected by physi- cal examination at the^bedside, is spoken of as a tumor of the kidney. Some