ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 1030 tore, though a mai’ked elevation is the coruinon change, Keith has recorded two, and those the most hopeless-looking of all his cases, in which there was striking lowness of temperature: in one the thermometer registered 05.5° to 06.5° F.; yet the contents of the cj'st were intensely putrid, and for some days before the o}>eration there had been a steadily rising pulse with the steadily falling temperature; in the other case, the C}'st had burst into the peritoneum, and at the time of the operation the temperature was 07° F.; in both these cases tlie temperature rose within six hours after the removal of the tumor, in the first from 05.5° to 07° F., in the second from 07° to 100.5° F. Keith remarks : “The statement, that, when there is pain or tenderness, this generally arises from inflammation of the peritoneal surfiices, rerpiires modification; the reverse is oftener the case. Tenderness or pain, if long continued, is almost always a certain sign that irritation is going on in the tumor somewhere. Simple surface-tenderness causing surface-adhesion, rarely lasts long; and the worst cases of adhesion met with have often no history of either })ain t^ir tenderness.” If ta})ping is performed, the C3'st rapidl}’ refills, and typhoid symptoms are ])rone to come on, sometimes with great rapidity. In chronic cases there may or may not be general tenderness or pain. There may be no rise of either pulse or temperature, and the general state of healtli may be fairl}' good, or even apparentl^^ robust. On the other hand, pain on walking or moving ma^' be suflicient to cause the patient to keep her bed for many months. In one of Keith’s cases a veiy severe attack of inflammation occurred, and the tumor had existed during at least one pregnancy, yet eveiy s^nnptoni of irritation, pain, and tenderness had subsided some months before the operation. Diagnosis.—In acute cases, and in the advanced stage of suppuration, there is no difficulty in diagnosing the condition ly the sjnnptoms above enumer- ated. In chronic cases, and in the carl}" stage of su|i[»uration, the diagnosis is most obscure. When the temperature is low, the surgeon ma}" be thrown completely otf his guard, and may suspect neither inflammation nor suppur- ation. From acute and suppurative pelvic peritonitis, and from acute pelvic cellulitis and abscess, these changes in ovarian cysts ma}" be distinguished ly the following characters :— (1) Ovarian tumors have an abdominal as well as a [)elvic portion, the latter being in most instances in front and to one side of the disjflaced uterus. (2) The uterus though displaced backwards and to one side, is }"et not fixed by peri-uterine induration. (3) The tumor presents a more or less globular outline, and obscurely fluctuating resistance. From pelvic [)eritonitis, an inflamed ovarian tumor is further distinguished ly the veiy mild character of the ])eritonitis, and generally I)_y the unaltered size and outline of the swelling after the peritonitis has subsided. Prognosis.—When left to themselves, suppurating ovarian cysts almost invariably end sooner or later in death. Occasionally the cj’st bursts into the vagina, bladder, rectum, or some higher part of the bowel, or externall}", and then if the cyst be unilocular, recovery nuy take place after many months of illness and suppuration. Much more frerpientl}-, however, the patient dies of exhaustion, hectic, or septicfemia, after ta[)ping or bursting of the cyst; or the cyst ulcerates or bursts into the peritoneum, and collapse or acute general peritonitis kills the patient; or if the c}'st is not tapped and does not burst, the patient dies from the pi’essure and dragging eflects of the tumor, that is, from d}'spna‘a, syncope, uriemia, vomiting, diarrha'a, or in- testinal obstruction. Very rarely the C}"st when inflamed shrinks, and so much diminishes in size as to become unnoticeable; but this does not happen if the c}'st suppur- ates. Years after the spontaneous discharge of pus and blood from an