553 SURGERY OF THE PERMANENT TEETH. the teeth are gone. Tlie maxillfe, during the process, develop up to the type of their inheritance, irrespective of the changes in the alveolar processes. Surgery of the Permanent Teeth. Extraction of Permanent Teeth.—The removal of a tooth is rarely a difficult operation, when its anatomy and that of its surroundings are appre- hended ; but there is no operation in dentistry which recpiires more firmness, self-control, and confidence in one’s own ability. A timid, nervous, unstable hand will be almost certain to do damage, sometimes almost irreparable. The roots seldom penetrate the true maxilla to any extent, and the sur- rounding walls of alveolar process are so vascular, elastic, or frail, that they give way more rapidly than might be supposed. Nevertheless, there are exceptional cases which tax the utmost ingenuity and strength of the operator to manage. The most difficult teeth to extract are ordinarily the cuspidati of either jaw, and the first two molars of the upper jaw. The difficulty with the canines is owing to their extremely long roots, and with the molars to their having three roots each, which generally diverge from the crown so that the diameter of the socket at the neck of the tooth is less than the ex- treme breadth at the apices of the roots. It is indeed a wonder, sometimes, that they ever come away without tearing the alveolar process along Avith them. The teeth which are removed most readily are the lower incisors, and after them but little difierence is seen in the extraction of the upper incisors and the bicuspids of both upper and lower jaws. All of these last named have, substantially, Imt one nearly straight root, and all are of about the same length. The first two molars of the lower jaw, each with two roots, are more readily removed than the corresponding teeth of the upper jaw, while the third molars above and below are taken out with comparatively little strength. The propriety of the removal of teeth must be determined entirely by tlie judgment of the operator. In the present advanced state of dental skill, the absolute necessity for the extraction of a tooth ouglit to be very rare. As patients avail themselves of the benefits of dental science, so Avill the extrac- tion of teeth which are firm in the ja\v become more and more infrecpient. Experience has shown that the simplest and best instrument for extraction is the forceps. Formerly the turnkey was the sole instrument employed, but the principle of its application is so ill-adapted to the end recpiired, that any directions for its use are unnecessary. It is a dangerous instrument to use in almost all cases, and has been superseded by such as are admirably adapted to their purpose. The s})ecialist may have, ivith some slight advantage, a peculiar forceps adapted to each tooth in the moutli, and the imriety of these forms is now sucli that each difierent kind of tooth may have its special forceps; but for the general surgeon such an array of instruments is cpiite unnecessary. L)r. Hasiirouck, of New York, who has for sixteen years made a specialty of extracting teeth with the aid of amesthesia induced liy the administration of nitrous-oxide gas, finds that he can extract all the teeth of both upper and under jaws Avitli but tAvo pairs* of forceps. With a forceps of bayonet-shape, with straight handles, and Avith beiiks alike of medium Avidth, every tooth of the upper jaw can be removed ; and Avhat is called tlie “ universal loAver-niolar forceps” may be used for all the teetli of the loAver jaw, provided that the blades or beaks are not too Avide. An additional set of two pairs may lie added Avith advantage, viz., one nearly straight, and one curved almost to a right angle, both Avith quite narroAv beaks ; these are more appro]iriate to the small teeth above and below than the instruments first described. Any number