ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 997 more or less constant alxlominal pain and tenderness. (Jvarian tumors ot a non-malignant type sometimes co-exist with cancer of the uterus, but their characters are sulhciently distinct not to require to be diagnosed from the encysted abscesses referred to. Course and Syniptoms.—Circumscribed i)eritoneal abscesses may occur at any age, from cbildhood upwards; they may also occupy any part of the peritoneal cavity, and they are often multiple. Probably the commonest, and some of the most impoi’tant cases, are those situated in the right ainl left hypochondria, tliat is, between the liver and the diaphragm, and l)e- tween the spleen and stomach and the diapliragm. In the valualile article referred to, h)r. Fagge has described sixteen cases of this sort; in six the abscess was between the liver and the diaphragm, and in ten in the left by})Ochon- drium. In five of the six supra-hepatic cases the pus was over the right lobe of the liver ; in the other, the abscess was on the convex surtace of the left lobe, and there was a perforation through the diaphragm into the left pleural cavity. In a large })roportion of h^'pochondrial abscesses, the corresponding side of the thorax becomes affected; pleurisy, pneumonia, pleuritic effusion, or empyema, results; and the case is very likely to be mistaken for one of thoracic disease, whilst the abdominal abscess is overlooked. The course of such cases is frequently this : the liver or spleen is injured, perluqts ruptured, or perhaps the capsule is stretched, not actually torn; this is followed by local peritonitis terminating in abscess beneath the diaphragm ; then pleurisy is set up, followed by adliesion of the base of the lung to tlic diaphragm, and, inflammation s})reading, effusion takes })lace, and the lung is compressed against the spine by the increasing eftusion of serum; at a later period the abscess bursts through the diaphragm, and opens into the adlierent lung, or into the lung and pleural cavity as well, and then an empyema is established. If the abscess is on the left side, pericarditis as well as pleurisy may be excited. In cases in which cancer, ulcer, or any other patliological condition excites these sub-diaphragmatic or bypochondrial abscesses, the course of the case may be just the same as above described. In other cases, again, the abscess may discharge itself into the stomach or transverse colon, and air may enter the abscess from tbe bowel; when this happens in the left snb-diaphragmatic abscess, each beat of the heart may give a splashing sound, as in a case de- scribed by Fagge (Case VII.). Sometimes an abscess will open at a number of different points into tbe gasti’O-intcstinal tube A woman, aged tliirty-tliree, suffering from tubercular peritonitis, was under tlie care of Dr. Coupland, in the Middlesex Hospital, in November, 1880. She died, and at the post-mortem examination an abscess-cavity was found, containing fetid gas, and semi- purulent and partly feculent matter. The abscess was bounded in front by tlie posterior wall of the stomach, and below by the collapsed transverse colon and some coils of ileum ; two perforations existed in the ileum, and three in the upper and anterior wall of the colon, within an area of two square inches ; each of these openings was large enough to admit an ordinary cedar pencil, and all had clearly been formed by ulcera- tion extending from the serous towards the mucous coats. In no other [>art of the intestine was there any ulceration of the mucous membrane. The stomach was insepa- rably adherent to the liver, spleen, colon, and ])arietes; and numerous opaque, flattened, tubercular nodules studded the peritoneum. Tliere was no fluid in the general perito- * neal cavity. The symptoms of circumscrilted peritoneal abscesses so vary tvitb tbe cause and condition of tbe patient, tluit it is tuff possible to mention definitely any which are common to all cases. Probably, though by no means certainly,