38 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. bone, and ivlien the line of fracture lias traversed a sinus, tliis callus may be so excessive as to block np tlie ebannel. I liave myself seen cases where there was no good reason to doubt that patients had recovered from basal fractures, yet such a result is rare. As I have endeavored to point out, and as Aran has positively stated, since basal fractures are simple linear fissures, with neither displacement nor depression, they, in themselves, add little, if anything, to the danger of the head-injury, if the brain have escaped primary harm. If perfect cpiiet he not maintained, as in the case of Dr. Wirgman’s patient, or as in Mr. Hilton’s cases, meningeal irritation and encephalitis will result, but these can often he avoided by rest and appropriate treatment. As an instance of the danger of movement, I may refer to a case of Sir Charles Bell’s, in which sudden displacement of a fragment of the occipital bone at the foramen magnum, caused instant death by compression of the spinal cord. And as most basal fractures are complicated with serious intracranial injuries, it has been estimated that 80 per cent, of fatal skull-fractures belong to this variety. Even when apparent recovery has taken place, death often results many months afterwards, from secondary hrain-disease. Treatment.—As these fractures are almost never amenable to operative treat- ment—and as they depend for their gravity upon the concomitant intracranial injuries—even when their diagnosis is clearly made out, nothing hejmnd treatment appropriate for expected or present encephalitis should in most instances be resorted to. In some rare cases of injury to the more accessible portions of the base, such as the roof of the orhit or the occi[)ital bone, opera- tive interference has been successfnll}’ employed. Occasionally the fragments are depressed, and when this is the case, and they are accessible, they should be elevated. Thus, Ilewett has seen a fragment, composing the greater part of the orhit, removed. The trephine has been successfully applied close to the foramen magnum, for a depressed fracture of that region, in a boy aged fourteen years. In this case an incision over an occipital contusion revealed a fissure which, when followed down, led to finding a depressed fragnient of hone so firmly impacted as to require the trephine for its removal. Punc- ture of the membranes was secondarily resorted to for a serous eftusion, and recovery took }>lace.' Watery Discharges from the Skull.—A discharge of thin, limpid, water}" fluid from the ears, nose, or other portions of the skull, is a not untrequent accompaniment of severe head-injuries, especially of basal fractures. The source of these discharges has been so much discussed, and their importance in the diagnosis of head-injuries has been so variously estimated, that I shall here consider the subject in some detail. Observed as early as 1727,^ it was reserved for Laugier, in 1839, to demonstrate by dissection tliat many cases of watery discharge from the ear coexisted with a fracture of the petrous hone and rupture of the memhrana tympani. Opinions as to the source of the dis- charge may he divided, as pointed out by Ilewett, into two classes: accord- ing to one, the fluid is thought to be nothing but the serum of the blood ; according to the other, it is a secretion from some membrane. Laugier first broached the view that the fluid was merely blood-serum from a clot lying in direct contact with the fracture. Afterwards, he taught that the “lace- rated vessels lying along the broken bone,” with those of the neighboring soft parts, “ contributed to the discharge by serous exudation.”^ Chassaignac 1 Med.-Chirurg. Trans., vol. ii. p. 105. 2 Vander Wiel (Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. page 592). ® Archives Generales de Medeciue, 4e ser., t. viii. p. 413. Laugier (ibid., p. 386,) declares that he had carefully noted the occurrence of watery aural discharge as far back as 1835.