DISEASES OF THE SCALP. 117 such cases. Purulent meningitis of the convexity may also, according to Iluguenin,* be induced in a like manner. Sir Astley CoopeP “ never saw a patient who recovered from any considerable carbuncle on the head.” Since that statement was made, cases of recovery have, however, been recorded. I saw two years ago an extensive anthrax, involving the greater part of the forehead, that in time healed perfectly, with but trilling constitutional dis- turbance. Gangrene.—More or less extensive gangrene of the scalj) may follow severe injuries, especially in the cachectic. I have seen extensive gangrene of the scalp over the frontal and occipital regions follow upon the application of a tight bandage. This liad been applied to arrest bleeding from a frontal scalp wound, the patient being an intemperate, ill-conditioned woman, past middle life. Gangrene of the scalp may also follow upon ditfuse cellular intlammation of the scalp, especiall}^ if the treatment by prompt incision l>e neglected. Sir Prescott Hewett,^ however, mentions a case of very consider- able gangrene following cellulitis where early incision had been made. Tbe patient was a woman of middle age, and the case ended fatally. Ileineke^ states that in feeble, unhealthy children a very trivial cause may induce a partial scalp gangrene. It has occurred after slight injuries, after otitis ex- terna, after eczema behind the ear, and after erysipelas. Mr. Thomas Smith® has described an unirpm case in a little girl, aged nine. After an attack of erysipelas, a large piece of the left parietal bone came away by spontaneous necrosis, bringing with it a corresponding portion of the hairy scalp. The case did Avell. The treatment of gangrene in this situation recpiires no espe- cial notice. Tumors of the Scalp.—In addition to those tumors described below under the special headings “Pneumatocele,” “ Ilrematoma,” “Cysts,” “Horns,” “Vascular Tumors,” and “Aneurism,” the following growths are met with in the soft parts that cover in the cranium. Fatty Tumors.—These are very rare. They may occur on any part of the scalp, and, although as a rule small, may attain a considerabl-o size, and may even become pedunculated.® In some eases they are congenital, or are at least noticed very early in life.^ Their origin—in most cases at least—appears to be from the loose connective tissue beneath the seal[> aponeurosis, and they are frecpieutly found to be adherent to the pericranium. As a rule, their growth is very slow, although in one case’' the tumor reached tlie size of half an orange in eighteen months. When of largo size the diagnosis is very simple; but when small and beneath the ajioneurosis the diagnosis is diffi- cult, the mass often feeling very hard and adherent. In JMr. Sydney Jones’s case the mass appeared to become tighter and more prominent Avhen the child cried. These tumors give no trouble other than by their bulk, although some time ago I removed a small fatty tumor from beneath the frontalis muscle in a woman, aged thirty-one, that had been associated Avith intense neuralgia of the supraorbital nerve. The tumor was directly over the nerve. If these growths give any inconvenience they should be excised at once. Fibrous tumors are also very rare unless they ap[>ear as the tumors of rnol- i * Ibiil., p. 603. 2 Lectures on Surgery, vol. i. p. 243. ® Lectures on Injuries and Diseases of the Head. Medical Times and Gazette, vol. ii. p. 200. 1855. ^ Loc. oit., S. 8. ^ Trans, of Clin. Soo. of London, vol. iii. p. 163. 1870. ® Rruns, Ilandh. der prakt. Cliirurgie, Bd. i. S. 96. 1854. ^ Case recorded by Mr. Sydney Jones. The tumor was fii'st noticed when the child was two months old. Lancet, Oct. 1880, p. 587.