599 TUMORS or THE NECK. over them. They are movable, grow slowly, are painless, and have the su- perficial veins sometimes enlarged and prominent. Long prolongations may pass deeply from these tumors among the muscles, and even around the bloodvessels, giving but slight indication of their ex- istence as the movability of the growth is thereby little affected; but, as a general rule, lipornata do not dip beyond the subcutaneous cellular tissue. When the skin over them is rendered tense, the line of attachment of the inter- lobular partitions will be seen, and this is distinctive. The hard- ening effects of ether, which has been used to differentiate fatty growths from others, is quite un- reliable as a diagnostic test. Fibroma, enciiondroma, and os- teoma are unusual tumors in the neck, but in connection with the ligamentum nuchie, or the verte- bral periosteum, we may have the two former, while enciiondroma Fig. 1019. may also be met with in the parotid and submaxillary glands, and exostoses occasionally grow from the transverse processes of the vertebroe. Fibrous and cartilaginous tumors, as a rule, grow slowly, are smooth or lobed, and in consistence vary from being elastic to being stony hard. They may attain a great size, are often quite movable and free from pain, and are covered liy unchanged skin; they may too, as may more especially the exostoses, give rise to much suffering by their pressure on nerves, and may interfere greatly with the circulation in both arteries and veins.* blEUROMATA, both single and multiple, have been I’ecognized in connection with the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. They have been observed most usually on the pneumogastric, but the sympathetic and phrenic also have both been found so affected.^ Syphilitic gummata may appear in the glands and subcutaneous tissue of the neck, and also in the sterno-mastoid muscle. They may soften, suppurate, and discharge, leaving fistulie. The sterno-mastoid is also occasionally the seat of clironic inflammation of a syphilitic nature, and of a curious hardening which goes by the name of “ myo-sclerosis.” When affected with chronic infiammatiou (in the secondary or tertiary stage of the disease), tjiere are ten- derness, stiffness, and irregular swelling in the muscle, and the pain is increased by motion of the part.^ The external and internal use of iodine is the best remedy for this condition. 1 Trfilat, Gazette des HOpitaux. 1868. ^ Accounts will be found of such growths in the well-known monograph of Professor R. W. Smith, of Dublin ; in Langenbeck’s Archiv, Bd. iii. ; in Mem. de la Soc. de Chir., tome ili.; in Pathol. Trans., vol. viii. ; and in Comptes Rendus de PAcad. des Sciences, 1845. ^ Bouisson, Gaz. Med. de Paris. Juillet, 1856.