INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 9 increase of the chronic irritation; or necrosis of the outer or inner table may result, and even the whole calvaria may ultimately separate.^ 3. Osteo-myelitis, caused by a severe blow upon the skull, may also result in an atrophic condition.^ Symptoms of the Acute Form.—After a head injury involving a contusion of bone, the patient may at first complain of nothing, or at most of a persist- ent, dull headache. The next symptoms noted are, that not earlier than the sixth day, and usually not later than three weeks^ after the receipt of the injury, the patient begins to complain of malaise, headache, slight vertigo, abnormal acuity of the special senses, muscular feebleness or rigidity of the cervical muscles, fever, slight chilliness, and nausea or vomiting. The pupils are usually contracted. If there is a wound, the edges become everted, the previously healthy discharge becomes thin, ichorous, and gleety, the granu- lations lose their florid aspect, and become pale, and tlie periosteum secedes from the bone, leaving it dry, \vhite, and discolored. If there is no wound, the site of injury becomes tender, and the scalp infiltrated with serum, pro- ducing a circumscribed, flattened, elevated swelling, the so-called “ puffy tumor” of Pott, which indicates a subjacent suppurative periostitis, denuded bone, and in many instances subcranial suppuration with se})aration of the dura mater. The exceptions to this rule are not infrequent, and will receive future consideration. With these local conditions the constitutional keep pace, as indicated by increasing fever. Headache, delirium, drowsiness, and stupor steadily increase; one pupil is perhaps dilated while the other is con- tracted ; and paralysis and convulsions may supervene, coma and death closing the scene. In addition to the above, irregular chills, followed by high temperature; profuse sweatings; a rapid, feeble pulse; pain in the chest, with dyspnoea and cough; slight jaundice; and swollen, painful joints, may, one or all, bo super- added to the local and general symptoms first described. If the disease do not }>ass beyond a certain i)oint, recovery may ensue, although the patient is liable to suffer, according to Gant, fj’om chronic cerebral irritation, cpi- lejisy, imbecility, ini})aired vision or hearing, aphasia, and various palsies. Let us inquire to wliat pathological clianges these symptoms correspond. At first, there is a simple osteo-myelitis, with separation of the pericranium and slight constitutional reaction. Tlie intlanimation next spreads to tlie dura mater, which may have been separated by an effusion of blood caused by tlie original injury. Lymph and pus soon form. The inflamrnation, if unchecked, next attacks the arachnoid, wdien at once the process, up to this point circumscribed, extends over the free surface of that membrane. The visceral layer of the arachnoid soon becomes involved, and then the pia mater, and even the corresponding portion of the brain itself, become inflamed. Here we have a local iniiaminatory process, first producing bone suppuration and necrosis, then meningitis, and finally localized brain compression by intrameningeal or cerebral suppuration and abscess. When the second class ' “ Dr. Aborcrnmbie mentions a case in which tlie inner table alone of the calvaria was thus extensively destroyed.” (Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 571.) In Norris’s case, the dis- ease attacked botli tables of tlie whole of the calvaria, and extended even as far as the foramen magnum. (Transactions of'the Medical Society of London, vol. i. p. 108.) But of all cases of this kind, Saviard’s is the most extraordinary. In this case, two years after a blow upon the head, tlie whole skullcap came bodily away. (Nouveau Recueil d’observations cliirurgicales, p. .386. Paris, 1702. See also (Euvres de Sabatier, tome ii. p. 400. 1790 ; Agnew’s Surgery, vol. i. p. 260.) The assumption that constitutional syi)hilis has anything to do with these extensive ex- foliations of hone, Agnew considers entirely gratuitous. * Agnew, ibid. * On the average, about the thirteenth day. Dease thought that between the eighth and six- teenth days was the period most to be dreaded. (Observations on Wounds of the Head, etc. Ilublin, 1760.)