SURGERY OF THE TEETH AND ADJACENT PARTS. 554 more than these will be absolutely required only to suit the fancy of the operator, or to meet some extraordinay occasion. In extracting any of the upper teetla, the best position is with the head of the patient against the left breast of the operator, who places his left arm around the head, and clasps it by putting his fingers in the mouth and against the upper jaw. For the lower jaw the operator should stand behind, with the patient’s head against his stomach; thus, with his left hand holding the chin and his thumb in the mouth, the jaw is held firm while extracting. Many authors lay much stress upon lancing the gum previous to the application of the forceps, but in the experience of those who have the largest practice in this specialty, lancing is rarely required. Forceps as now made have thin edges, and in using them should always be firmly forced up the surface of the tooth until they reach the alveolar process ; this act will drive away the gum and render lancing unnecessary. Xo special directions can he given for the manner in which a tooth should be drawn, except that luxation or rotation may be of a little advantage with teeth that have single roots; but rotation with the molars is impossible. The strength required and the direction of movement must be left to the judgment of the operator, as he feels the neces- sity at the moment. Sometimes it is impossible to extract an upper molar without resorting to an intentional removal of the buccal wall of the alveolar process, hut this should only he a last resort. If, in the effort to extract any tooth that has a living pulp (particularly a molar), it should be broken off, the immediate results may be serious. An upper molar with strong surrounding walls, broken in this way, may be almost impossible of removal, and the fractured and exposed pulp will cause violent pain. The best immediate treatment will be the use of the actual cautery, if it can be applied; otherwise, a minute quantity of arsenious acid upon a small pledget of cotton, dipped in oil of cloves, will give relief. The removal of small portions of the process accidentally, is not uncommon, and serious results need not he apprehended. That which has come away would be absorbed within a short time if it had been left. Neither is there to be any danger anticipated from prolonged hemorrhage. Hemorrhage for a few minutes is to be expected, but if profuse and pro- longed, a plug of lint with tannin placed in the socket, and a compress to hold it, will soon stop the bleeding. Sound teeth should never be extracted to make way for artificial ones. One, two, or three sound teeth which are firm in the jaw, will be worth more for mastication than all the artificial substitutes that can be employed. Irregularities of the Teeth.—With advancing civilization there is an apparent increase of deformities of the dental arch. In tlie higher social scale, it is exceptional to find a young person with a perfectly developed and regular row of teeth set in a well-formed and rounded arch. More commonly, departures from this type will be found of every grade, moi'e or less pro- nounced, exhibiting some of the phases of narrowed jaws, with teeth pro- truding, overlapping, and crowded in every conceivable state of disorder. In many instances, the cause has Some direct connection with other evils that seem inseparable from a state of high civilization. A close observer for a generation has seen a multitude of cases which had no apparent local cause, "were not of hereditary origin, and could only be attributed to constitutional conditions developed in the individual. As a general statement, the finer the nervous organization—the more precocious, or brilliant, the intellect—the greater will be the tendency to dental deformity.