INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 952 formed iu the lumbar and iliac regions, limited in front by the colon and ciecum, or sigmoid llexure, and behind by the lumbar and iliac fasciie; the nerves of the lumbar plexus may be dissected out from the place where they leave the spinal canal, and lie loosely in the suppurating space; the iliac vessels or the vena cava, lying to the inner side or in front of tliis cavity, may become ulcerated, or may slough, and sudden death from hemorrhage may occur. When such an abscess has already opened into the bowel, the blood has been known to hurry through the suppurating space, and, finding its way into the gut, to be discharged in large cpiantities through the anus.' l)r. Good- hart has related to me the following very interesting case:— A military officer liad, for a year or more, occasionally experienced difficulty in swallowing, and at these times required a quantity of fluid to “wash his food down.” He at these times emaciated rapidly, losing a stone or two in weight, but as quickly recovered as soon as the attack passed otf. In the intervals, however, he often suffered pains about the epigastrium, and had a sense of distension after eating. On several occasions he had had shivering and feverish attacks like ague, and as he had been in the Ashantee AVar, it was supposed that they were due to some malarial influence, and that his liver might be affected. On one occasion, as he was about to leave his house, he felt a sudden faintness, and pain in his epigastrium, and vomited a little blood ; the vomiting of blood was several times repeated, and within a day or two he was dead. A post-mortem examination revealed ulceration about a syphilitic thickening of the oesophagus, close to the stomach ; this had set up suppuration in the surrounding tissues, and pus had burrowed behind the diaphragm, and had caused ulceration into the aorta, close to the coeliac axis. In other cases, the pus strips up the peritoneum as it spreads, and sets up local peritonitis, leading to adhesions of the omentum and small intestines, to thickening of the capsules and walls of the viscera, or to intra-peritoneal suppuration; or throndiosis of the renal, iliac, or pelvic vein, or even of the vena cava, arises, and causes great oedema of the parts below, which send their blood back to the heart through these channels. In some chronic cases, the abdomen may be gradually enlarged by the increasing pus until the swelling simulates ascites. Mr. Barton has recorded a case^ in which spinal caries led to a large retro-peritoneal abscess; dulness extended from ribs to pelvis on one side, and up to the median line in front, the intestines being pushed over to the opposite side; and the abscess pointed as far forwards as a line on a level with the anterior border of the axilla. Diagnosis.—In the subacute or chronic cases, and even in the acute form, whilst pus is confined beneath the fascia of the abdomen or pelvis, there is much difficulty in the diagnosis. We must, by a careful investigation of tbe history and of all the circumstances of the case, take pains to estimate how much of the symptoms is due to mere sympathetic })articipation in, or secon- dary affiection of, the pelvic or abdominal viscera, and how much to the retro- peritoneal mischief. The excretions must be carefully examined, the functions of each organ incpiired into ; and by a through scrutiny of the symptoms, on the principle of exclusion of diseases, we shall eliminate renal, spinal, hepatic, splenic, intestinal, vesical, uterine, and ovarian affiections. When pus is being (lischarged in the urine, or by the lung or cesophagus, it may be difficult, if not im})0ssible, without a very careful study of the chronological order of symptoms, to determine the correct relationship of the retro-peritoneal suppu- ration and the visceral affection, so as to say which is the cause of the othei’. Prognosis.—If the pus makes its way to the surface, and is spontaneously 1 Nmnerous cases illustrating some of these points are to be found in Dr. Ilabershon’s work on Diseases of the Abdomen. ^ Lancet, March 17, 1883, p. 4.53.