1135 INGUINAL HERNIA. the shoulders raised and a bolster put under the knees. Opium should be given to allay pain and maintaiu rest; milk and beef-tea, iced, to allay any remaining sickness or retching; milk-diet, and no stimulants, uidess the patient show signs of sinking. The bowels may be left to themselves for four or five days, purgatives in any shape being contra-indicated. After this, mild enemata with olive oil may be administered, if required. If the gut be s[)haeelated and black, and have lost its lustre, with gray or ash-colored spots and a putrescent smell and foul secretion in the sac, the parts should be well washed ivith the spray; the bowel should then be opened longitudinallj' at the sphacelated part with scissors, and the sides of the opened bowel stitched to the skin by three or four points of suture. The spray may then be discon- tinued, and the wound dressed with lint soaked in 1-40 carbolic lotion, and covered by a large, loose lump of carbolized tow in the groin and perineum, held on lightly l>y a spica bandage. If the condition of the bowel be doubt- ful, the [)arts may be left in situ after free division of the stidcture, and cov- ered with lint dipped in warm water, the warmth being kept up by a hot- water sponge placed over all. The bowel may thus recover itself, and may slowly be drawn into the abdomen. It should be watched and examined twice daily, to see if the signs of mortification increase in certainty, and, if so, stitches should at once lie [daced on the bowel to prevent retraction into the abdomen and subsequent fatal extravasation. The bowel should be freely opened, and an artificial anus formed, as _just described. The same expectant treatment should be followed in cases where a small aperture has ulcerated through the strangulated part, and pei’initted the escape of fecal matter into the sac. This sliould be first well washed out by carbolized sponges and the spray. If the bowel be clearly ulcerated or sphacelated beyond recovery, it may, in favorable cases occurring in otherwise healthy individuals, lie entirely removed by sections through the gut, including the diseased and damaged loop of bowel between them. The mesenteric attachment may then be divided, the arteries and veins tied with small catgut ligatures, the cut sections of the bowel brought together, and stitched round by a continuous or glover’s suture, with small catgut, taking care to double inwards the serous edge so as to get the two serous surfaces in contact. It may then be I’etui-iied into the abdom- inal cavity, after tliorough cleansing with weak carbolic lotion, and the external wound closed witli antiseptic dressing, with a drainage-tube }iassing into the alidonien at the lower angle of the wound. Patients treated in this way have occasionally made good recoveries. It a portion of the omentum be thickened into a mass which cannot be re- turned, this should be removed, and all bleeding vessels tied with catgut liga- tures cut otf short. Any soft, recent adhesions of the bowel or omentum'tii each other, or to the sac, should be carefully sejiarated by the fiiigers or forceps, and any oozing of small vessels staunched by jiressurc. In favorable cases with little damage to the hernial contents, I have for many years been in the habit, at the end of the operation for relief of stran- gulation, both in inguinal and crural hernia, of taking away the sac after tying it with catgut, and closing the tendinous hernial opening by my wire operation, and with the best results, both without and with the spray and gauze treatment. A description of the modes of proceeding in these cases will be given presently. Diagnosis of Inguinal Hernia when not Strangulated.—When symp- toms of strangulation or obstruetion are absent, an inguinal bulionocele rnav be mistaken for encijsted hydrocele of the cord. It may be easily distinguisliefi, if the cyst be placed below the superficial ring, by feeling the canal and coni