OPERATIONS ON THE KIDNEYS. 1097 Of course no operation should lie undertaken for a floating kidney until pads and belt, and corsets, for steadying the kidney, and electricity, massage, and sea-baths, to increase the tone of the abdominal parietes, have been tried and failed ; but fail in severe cases they almost certainly will do. The dangers of nephrorraphy are the same as those of nephrolithotomy, except that there is little or no hemorrhage from the kidney on introduction of the suture. Xepiirectomy, or the removal of tlie kidney from tlie living body, ivas first performed as a planned operation in the human suliject by (dustav Simon, of Heidelberg, in April, 1869. Blundell,^ years ago, did nephrectomy on the rabbit, and proved that, in that animal at least, the kidney might be removed without causing deatli. Three different surgeons had preceded Simon in excising the human kidney, but without knowing the nature of the tumors they were removing until tlie operations had been completed. The first of these operations was performed in 1861, the others in 1867 and 1868. The ventral method was employed in each, and all the patients died. Simon’s case was the fourth in which nephrectomy was performed, and the first in which the lumbar method was adopted. The patient fortunately recovered, and from that time the operation has been recognized as a legitimate one. Lumbar nephrectormj should be performed in cases in which the removal of a disorganized kidney is advisable, after neplirotorny has been tried and failed to improve the condition of the patient; in cases of nephrolithiasis for which nephrolithotomy is not practicable; in cases of ureteral urinary fistula;; in cases of wounded or ruptured kidney which are injured past tlie probability of functional repair, or in which lilood-clots are being forced into the ureter, and plug it so as to lead to urinary extravasation into the loin, or to acute nephritis of the injured organ and threatened implication of the peritoneum. It should also be selected in dealing with renal cystic tumors, and small or medium-sized solid tumors of the kidney, and for some cases of painl'ul, movable kidneys, which are condemned to removal. Other cases of large tumors, and of wandering kidneys very loosely held by a mesonephron, are better dealt with by the abdominal method. But liere 1 would enphatically commend the teaching of Simon, who has laid it down as a cardinal principle that extirpation of a kidney is only permissible when a patient’s life is seriously threatened by disease, and when all other remc<lies have failed,because renal disease is more dangerous in persons with only one kidney. The suffering caused by a floating kidney ought therefore to l»e quite irremediable liy other means, before the }»atient is exposed to the great risks—operative and pros})ective—of ne[)hrectomy ; and in renal calculus no [lains should be spared to procure relief by nejflirolithofomy before proceeding to the much graver operation of excision. Rayer and INIoseler have tabulated 1-f fatal uni-renal cases; in 7 death was sudden, and due to obstructed ureter and anuria; and in 9 there was renal calculus. It is probable that future experience will exclude from the category of cases for which nephrectomy liy any method should be done, tul)ercidar disease, and renal sarcoma in children, as well as cancer at any period of life. In cancerous tumors it is not likely that life can be much prolonged, indess in the exceptional cases in which the disease is detected before it lias existed long, or has affected the lymphatic system. In tuberculosis, which, when it affects the genito-urinary tract, rarely confines itself to one organ, much tem- porary relief may be given liy ne[)hrotomy ; liut nephrectomy is oidy advisalile, and safe from the special danger of anuria, in very exceptional instances. 1 lere all will depend u})On the character of the urine secreted by the other kidney— ' Renuarks on Alxlominal Surgery. (Ashwell, op. oit. 1828.)