INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. 67 hemorrhage from the right nostril, while the pulse and respiration were undisturbed, and only some pain in tlie head was complained of. The next day a fragment of the brain, of the size of a hazel-nut, together with some blood-clot, escaped from the right nostril. The inner wall of the frontal sinus had been broken, which afforded a means of exit for the lacerated brain.^ A seaman, on board the United States ship Constellation, fell from the mast-head through a hatchway, landing full upon the vertex. Copious bleeding from the ear, estimated at from 50 to 60 duidounces, occurred within a few hours, and mingled with the blood were small fragments of brain-tissue. This was followed the next day by a free watery discharge from the auditory meatus, in which were found several small pieces of true brain-substance. In five weeks the man had returned to duty, only com- plaining of giddiness and a “ stuffed-up” head.'^ After an extensive search through the literature of the subject, I can find no record of brain-substance having lieen forced into the pharynx; but Howett says tliat he has seen the contents of the pharynx within the skull, to ivhich tliey had gained access between the widely se}>arated fragments of a fracture of the cranial base. Prognosis.—As just said, nearly all cases in which cerebral protrusion occurs at the liase of the skull, terminate fatally; but when the vault is involved, altliough the injury is a most dangei’ous one, it is not necessarily mortal, since tlie records of surgery contain a large number of instances where recovery has ensued after losses of considerable portions of brain-tissue—recoveries, too, in many instances, without any apparent sequelie, either mental or physical. I have been pi’esent myself at an operation, performed by another surgeon, where several teaspoonfuls of brain-sulistance were lost, and where yet the patient made a good recovery. Two high authorities are diametrically opposed to each otlier aA to whicli is the most dangerous region for these injuries, Brodie^ saifing that he could discover no record of recovery where the posterior lobes of the cerebrum were involved, while Guthrie thought that an injuiy of the forehead was far more dangerous than one of the back of the head, and that injuries of tlie side or middle of the cranium occupied a mean place as to their mortality.^ I am unable to throw any light upon this vexed question, but am inclined to think that each case must be considered by itself, and that all generalizations must be fallacious wliere the lesions are so exceedingly varied. Treatment.—This must be that of other severe lioad-iiijuries, with special reference to the probability of tlie formation of secondary protrusion of the brain-substance, or hernia cerebri.^ Hernia Cerebri.—In the great majority of cases, this protrusion consists largely of true braiii-substauce. TTiis has lieeii proved macroscopically-—in one case of Mr. Stanley’s the cortical and medullary substance were readily distinguished by the naked eye—and niicrosco[)ically, as in Mr. Hewett’s case, where “many nerve-tubules were detected in every portion thus sub- mitted to the glass.” In some cases the mass has been described as consisting chiefly of blood effused beneath the pia mater, while in others the tumor has been found to consist of a mass of hyperplastic granulation-tissue. Although almost always tlie result of a fracture with consequent rent of the dura mater, or when that membrane has been purposely or accidentally opened during an oiiei’ation, hernia cerebri may result from syphilitic caries, as in two recorded ' Medical Gazette, new series, vol. iii. i>. 77. 1846. 2 Amer. Jour. Med. Sciences, April, 18.69, p. 354. ® Med.-Cliirg. Trans., vol. xiv. p>. 421. '* Guthrie, Injuries of the Head. Commentaries on the Surgery of War, Gth edit., p. 284.