574 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. is nsually described as forming two triangles. The sterno-mastoid muscle being easily found, and having a close relationship to some of the most im- portant stnictures, is always a leading guide to the surgeon. There are a few points connected with the anatomy of the neck which it is desirable to epitomize as shortly as possible. Their direct bearing on many surgical affections renders a clear comprehension of them essential. 'YhefasdcE of the neck are among the most important of its structures. They inclose, fix, divide, and yet bind together, the various tissues and organs. The most superficial layer is continuous with that of the chest and head, and incloses in its folds various muscles, bloodvessels, and nerves. Attached at various points to bone (jaw, cranium, vertebroe, sternum, clavicle, and ribs), the cervical fascia gives firm support to the structures it incloses. Impor- tant septa pass inwards from the deep layer to be attached to the transverse processes of the cervical vertebraj, from the second to the seventh, and to the two first ribs. These, besides inclosing the roots of the cervical and brachial nerves, divide the deep portion of the sides of the neck into an an- terior (larger) and a posterior region. In each of these compartments, again, each muscle has its sheath, while the great vessels, together with the trachea and oesophagus, are effectively inclosed. From this arrangement both good and harm may arise. Fluid collections, diffuse inflammation, and even new growths, make their way more readily downwards, towards the chest, than either upwards or to the side, and thus a source of much difficulty and anxiety is occasioned to the surgeon, seeing that there may be much obscurity as to the origin and relations of such affections. Growths, etc., lying above the deep fascia are readily dealt with, while those placed below it are often beyond interference. The movability of tumors, though capable of occasion- ing deception as to their connections, is, as a rule, a most valuable guide regarding their relation to this deep fascia. This character, together with the possibility or not of raising them, so as, as it were, to insert the fingers below them, always commands the sin-geon’s attention when considering the possibility of an operation for their removal. A triangular portion of the middle layer of the cervical fascia, to which Richet has given the name of “ omo-clavicular aponeurosis,” has been credited by that author with the important office of keeping the great veins of the neck open, and so facilitating the return of blood from the head. This struc- ture has its base below, and its apex at the h}"oid bone. It lies on either side of the middle line, and to its outer sides the omo-byoid muscles are attached. These muscles render the fascia tense, and in this way produce the effect above mentioned. The infra-hyoid muscles, the thyroid plexus of veins, together with the lower portion of tiie jugulars and the other great venous trunks at the root of the neck, being attached to offsets from it, are all power- fully influenced by its degree of tension. The risk of air gaining admission into these vessels when wounded in this dangerous region, is, however, much enhanced by the same mechanism. Fluid forming underneath the fascia, will, of course, be directed with facility into the axillae oi- mediastina. With the middle line of the neck the surgeon is often occupied, and with its anatomy he should be well acquainted. Below the symphysis we have the siqyra-hyoid space, which, if opened, will give access to the cavity of the mouth and to the tongue. A longitudinal incision in the middle line will, however, wound no structures of any consequence external to the mouth. Through such an incision Chassaignac passed the chain of the ecrasemq in order "to divide the tongue; and Regnoli, making a semicircular incision extending along the border of the jaw, drew the tongue down tbrougb the opening, and was thus able to excise its anterior half. Close below the jaw lies a lymphatic gland, which occasionally inflames and suppurates, and if