INJURIES OP THE CRANIAL NERVES. 103 produced by hemorrhagic pressure, or by that of inflammatory products, gradual recovery not uncommonly ensues. I shall now briefly allude to the injuries of each special nerve, and the consec[uent lesions—if any—produced in distant organs. First Pair, or Olfactory Serves.—A fracture involving the cribriform plate of the ethmoid must almost of necessity injure the olfactory nerves. Owing to the excessive softness and delicacy of these nerves, and to their being firmly held against the under surface of tlie anterior cerebral lobes by the arachnoid, injuries which tend to drive the anterior portions of the brain against the bony floor of the anterior cranial fossie, may readily injure the olfactory bulbs. According to Dr. Ogle, blows uj)on the occiput—as in two cases reported by him—may rupture the nerve-fllaments as they pass from the bulb through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ctlirnoid bone. Hemorrhage into the neighboring portions of the anterior lobes, or surround- ing and compressing the nerve between the bone and brain—to judge from results—is a much more common cause of loss of smell than basal fracture. I have seen one case of anosmia, in private practice, the result of a probalfle fracture of the base of the skull. Four years after the accident, when I first saw this gentleman, all sense of smell was absolutely lost, and this had been so since the date of the injury. Brodie reports two cases of anosmia after head-injury. In one, there commenced some time after the injury a gradual restoration of the sense of smell, which steadily went on until a perfect cure resulted; in the other, examined many years after, complete loss of smell persisted. In an excellent paper, Mr. Henry Lee’ relates a case showing how caution must be exercised in determining the presence or absence of anosmia. A patient in St. (leorge’s Hospital appeared for several weeks to have lost the sense of smell upon the left side, after a traumatism of the head which had resulted in facial paralysis. Finally, a nioi’e careful examination sliowed that, owing to the comlfined effect of a deviated nasal septum and ]iaral- ysis of the dilator naris, etc., the left nostril had practically Ijecome imper- vious to air; when, however, the left nostril w'as held open, the man per- ceived odors with ecpial facility upon each side of the nose. Anosmia is sometimes said to coexist wdth loss of taste, but tins is a mistake. True sapors —-that is, excitors of the sense of taste, such as salt, acids, or bitters, which are non-volatile—can be readily tasted after complete destruction of the first pair of nerves. Those substances which depend chiefly upon volatile odors for their so-called taste—and to odor most articles of food owe their palatableness— can no longer be distinguished from tasteless or even disagreeable substances. This was the case wdth the patient that was under my care. From the pro- pinquity of the centres of speech and smell, anosmia and aphasia not uncom- monly coexist. Second Pair, or Optic Herves.—The optic nerve may be torn through by a fracture traversing the orbit; may be compressed by hemorrhage within the neurilemma; may be crushed by a dis[»laced fragment of bone; or may be divided by a penetrating wound. Of the first method of causation, a case reported by M. Pigne is a good illustration. Here, from the application of a powerful cornpi-essing force, that is, the passage of a carriage-wheel over the head, the orbital roof was extensively comminuted, resulting in a complete tearing across of the optic nerve and of all the recti muscles.* As an instance of a displaced fragment of bone suppressing the function of the optic nerves, ‘ Medical Times and Gazette, new series, vol. iv. p. 238 et seq, 1852. ^ Bull, de la Soc. Anat. de Paris, p. 228. 1837.