253 GLAUCOMA. be recognized by an educated finger. Education, here and elsewhere, is a tedious process, acquired and preserved only by constant practice. But how is the touch to be applied in this delicate investigation? The eye to be tested must be gently closed, turned towards the floor, and the head held slightly backwards. In this quiet way, the surgeon, sitting, facing the patient and in easy command of his own hands and arms, places the two index fingers, close together, on the globe of the eye above. The undivided attention must now be transferred to the pulps of these two fingers. While one is pressed with some firmness on the ball and held still, intermitting pressure is made with the other, as in feeling for fluctuation. The quiet finger detects the rise and fall of the fluctuating contents of the globe. The pressure should be directed per- pendicularly to the surface, but not hard enough to produce pain. The natural eye is yielding and elastic. In high degrees of morbid tension it may be stony hard. A convenient system of abbreviations has been adopted, to express the degree of tension : T n, tension normal; T?, tension doubtful; T + l, T + 2, T+3, indicate increased tension; T—, tension diminished; and T —i —2—3, three degrees of softening. AVhen there is great increase of intra-ocular tension, or the reverse, it is easily recognized. But slighter variations require great tact and attention. Both eyes should be examined in quick succession, trans- ferring the fingers from one to the other. The hardness of glaucoma often varies at short intervals. The test sliould be applied every day, or oftener, so as to surely detect this important symptom at the earliest possible period, and watch its varying degrees. It is diflicult to conceive how this pathog- nomonic symptom is brought about, except by hypersecretion of inti’a-ocular fluids, or by diminished exosmosis, or by both together. AVhen these two processes are balanced in the nutritive changes within the eye, normal tension results. A natural secretion, with obstructed outward current, might produce increased tension. Hypersecretion, with free outward flow, might cause the same thing. But these two diseased conditions are usually united. AYhat is the immediate cause, and whence the source, of this excessive secretion? Where is the seat, and wdiat is the patliology, of the retarded exosmosis ? Theories, facts to suit^ are by no means wanting. But none yet proposed, explains all the conditions of the glaucomatous process. Even the essential fact of glaucoma, increased tension, urged by VoiiGraefe as a satisfactory ex- planation of all the phenomena, has recently been denied. AVhile perhaps always present in the advanced stage, it is said to be not essential to the existence of glaucoma, and not an initial synqjtom. Tlie immense weight of authority, however, is on the other side, the difierences of opinion being as to the origin of the increased pressure. Is the process a neurosis, or an inflammation, or both ? The first was assumed by Bonders as the best explanation. Others, claiming to have found traces of inflammation in the uveal tract and in the optic nerve, have put this forward as the forming stage, antedating increased tension. Increase in size of the lens, SAvelling of the ciliary processes, and diminution of the marginal space between the two, have been considered- the first step in this disease. Retardation in the outflow of fluids from the eye, at the angle of the anterior chamber, followed necessarily by increased tension, explains the other phenomena. It is generally conceded that in most cases of glaucoma, there is compression of the angle of the anterior chamber, by a drawing forward and adhesion of the outer rim of the iris to the trabe- culae of Fontana’s spaces. In this way a check of the current of intra-ocular fluids towards the canal of Schlemm and the surface of the eye, is produced. But whether this is primary and causal, or secondary, is still a much disputed question. But with all this theoretical bewilderment, there is a sad general agree-