391 DISEASES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. are usually found upon the cartilaginous septum. Earely do they extend to any extensive destruction of tissue or of neighboring parts, and never, if con- trolled b}" judicious treatment. The most destructive, the most common, and the most characteristic of the syphilitic affections of the nose, occur during the tertiary period of the disease—that is, at a date from live to fifteen years after the primary infec- tion—and, as is the rule with the severer lesions of syphilis, are more apt to appear in Ijroken-down, neglected, and strumous individuals. The ulceration, commencing in a gummatous periostitis, or in a localized gummy intiltration of the mucous membrane, rapidly becomes wide-spread and destructive, invad- ing and destroying both cartilaginous and osseous structures, and eventuating in necrosis and discharge; permanent <leformity, from sinking in of the nose, follows, from loss of its bon}' and cartilaginous supports. iSlo part of the interior, or, in certain rare cases, the exterior of the organ, is sacred from the inroads of the disease. Vomer, perpeiulicular plate of ethmoid, cartilaginous septum, turbinated bones, the tioor and walls of the nose, yield in turn. Crusts and necrotic bits of bone accumulate in the passages; a most intoler- able fetor is developed ; the discliarge is stinking, bloody, and purulent; ab- scesses form, and may rupture externally, and the hard palate tinally becomes perforated. In rare instances, serious coDsequences may still further follow from the extension of the destructive process to the interior of the cranial cavity, or from some incidental or accidental complication—lodgment of necrosed }»ieces of bone in the air passage or oeso[)hagus. The dia.ynosis of syphilitic disease of the nose is ordinarily not dithcult; * the clinical history of the case, the presence of the syphilitic cachexia, the appearance of the nasal ulcerations, and especially the detection with the prolie of necrosed bone within the ])assagcs, together witli tlie offensive odor and discharge, and the existence of ulcers in the pharynx and fauces, rarely leave room for doubt. Lupus, scrofula, tuberculosis, cancer, and the ulcers of the exanthemata, the oidy other main affections of the nose giving rise to ulcer- ation (see page 302), are readily eliminated, in the absence of their character- istic appearances and constitutional symptoms. Special cai’e must be taken not to confound cases of syphilis, attended, as they are, by an ozicnic smell, with cases of simple ozrena, such as have been elsewhere described. The mistake is no unusual one, and the direful results of want of pro}ier ti'eatment, or the effects of mismanagement, in such instances, are well know'n. Treatnient.—The importance of prompt, etlicient, and skili'ul treatment, both local and general, cannot be overestimated; the latter is always essential in controlling the disease ; the former, of the utmost value in limiting its destructive cinirse and hastening its cure. Iodide of ]iotassium in full doses (gr. X, XX, to XXX, or more, three or four times daily), conjoined, if the necessary indications exist, with the administration of the preparations of iron, cod-liver oil, and the like, constitutes the sheet anchor of treatment, and its use is often attended with the most brilliant results. Mercury, I believe from experience, to be of less value in controllino- the ulcerative action in this stage. The combined treatment may be preferred by some. I.iOcally, the indications are to correct, the offensive odor, check hyper- secretion, and remove all the necroseil bone, which acts as a constant irritant. The first step is the thorough cleansing of the parts by means of a disinfectant solution ([)ermanganate of })otassium, litp sodic chlorinat., carbolic or salicylic acid, borax, creasote, etc.), used with the nasal douche, or, still better, some form of nasal syringe. The nasal spray-ajiparatus is rarely Ibrci- ble enough in the stream that it throws to dislodge the thick and impacted accumulation of crusts, or to loosen necrosed bits of bone ; indeed, botli often require direct extraction at the hands of the surgeon, aided by forceps and