149 DISEASES OP THE SKULL, ETC. some cases, the bone loses its volume lij progressive wasting of the diploe and approximation of the two cranial tables. These tables at last meet in one compact layer, and, by becoming themselves still further thinned, may, in time, exhibit actual perforations in parts. This condition may be gene- ral, or it may involve parts only, l.^arts of tlie skull, naturally thin, show this change most conspicuously, as for example, the lower part of the occiput, the squamous q)ortion of the temporal bone, and the orbital roof. In other cases the absorption appears rather to take place centrifugally from one or more points, and may then commence in either of the two tables, or in the diploe. Most usually it commences in the outer qlate. The entire skull may be thus involved, and a severe example of one phase of this condition is afforded in osteo-malacia. One of the most peculiar forms of the present affection is a limited atrophy of a part of botli parietal hones, whereby very distinctive depressions are pro- duced on the outer aspects of the bones. These “ parietal depressions” are met with in the skulls of the aged, and are symmetrical, although they are usually more marked on the right side. The depression is oval, is situate over the parietal eminence, and has its long axis placed oliliquely, so that it is directed from the posterior and upper part of the hone, forwards, and a little outwards or downwards. The depression may occupy the greater part of the antero- posterior diameter of tlie bone. The depression is at the expense of the outer table and the diploe. The inner table will be found unaltered in position, and the cranial cavity, therefore, is no way encroached upon.^ In some cases, Iiowever, the disease may go on to })erforation.^ The causes of this remark- able affection are unknown.^ There is on recoi-d a case of symmetrical atrophy of the frontal bone on either side of the middle line, and several cases of like atrophy of the occipital hone. Atrophy of the skull is attended Ijy no special symptoms^ cannot he diagnosed^ and, even if recognized during life, would probably he unaffected by any treatment. Craxiotabes and the Changes in the Skull in Hereditary Syphilis.—• The term eraniotahes is ajiplied to two morbid conditions met with in the crania of young infants, that differ, however, only in degree. They are (1) a limited thinning of the skull Itones, and (2) })erforations in those bones due to extreme degrees of that tlnnness. Elsaesser,^ who first described the affection, considered it to be due to rickets, but at the present time, owing mainly to the researches of M. Parrot, Dr. Barlow, and l)r. Lees, the condi- tion is considered to be a manifestation of liereditary syphilis. The conclu- sions of the two last-named observers upon tliis point are thus expressed; “We have found eraniotahes (1) not common in pure rickets, (2) not at all special to rickets, (3) very common in congenital syphilis.”® The changes in the skull in syphilitic infants present themselves under tliree aspects: 1. Gelatiniform atrophy (I’arrot®); 2. Craniotalies ; 3. Osteophytic formations. These changes occur in varying degrees and at somewhat varying periods, and it is im])ortant also to observe that these changes do not occur in the crania of ail syphilitic infants. ' An excellent description of these depressions is given hy Professor Humphry. .Tourn. Anat. and Phys., vol. vii. p. 136. 1874. Larrey, Hull, de la Soc. de Chirni'g., tome vii. p. 30. 1867. ® The subject of causation is well discussed hy M. Pozzi. Diet. Encyc. des Sc. Med., Art. Crane (Developpementj, p. 497. * Der weiche llinterkopf. Ein Beitrag zur Physiol, xuid Pathol, der ersten Kindheit. Stuttgart und Tiihingen, 1843. ^ Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxx. p. 333. 1879. 5 Ibid., p. 339.