ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 1013 suppurative peritonitis ; at the post-mortem examination the mesentery was found enor- mously thickened, its glands inflamed, and in it were large collections of black, fetid pus, which communicated with the sac of the peritoneum. Dr. Habershon^ records a case of abscess of the lesser omentum lined by pyogenic membrane. The foramen of Winslow was closed, and the abscess-cavity was tilled with brown, fetid contents. The omental abscess communicated with an abscess of the spleen through an opening about one inch in diameter at the posterior part of that organ. A hydatid tumor of the spleen had suppurated, and in addition to the abscesses of the spleen and omentum, it had led to the formation of a circumscribed peritoneal abscess. A woman who was under my care in the Middlesex Hospital, with cancer of the uterus which had ulcerated into the bladder, died of veiy acute peritonitis. The cavity of the lesser omentum was distended with a thick, opaque, grayish tluid of puru- lent character. Dr. J. Harley^ relates a case in which he believes that an abscess of the left lobe of the liver burst into the omental sac, and then burrowed behind the peritoneum until it opened into the sigmoid flexure. Mercklin described a case of abscess of the mesentery opposite a point in the right lumbar region which during life had been the seat of intense pain. In this abscess there were several calculi similar to one found in the pancreas itself; the inference is that the calculi in the mesentery liad esca[)ed by ulceration from the pancreas, and had given rise to the abscess in the mesentery.® Symptoms.—The symptoms of mesenteric ami omental abscess will he probably cpiite indistinguishable from those of severe peritonitis running on to circumscribed peritoneal abscess. Fever, restlessness, thirst, nausea, and abdominal pain and distension have been very marked in some cases, and syncope and other evidences of diaphragmatic and cardiac disturbances have been recorded in others. Treatment.—In most cases the treatment can be oidy palliative and expec- tant, but when the signs of peritonitis are present, the ordinary treatment for that affection must be employed. As these abscesses are for the most part secondary, and due to the bursting of an abscess in a neighboring organ, or to the irritation of biliary or pancreatic calculi, or are the result of a general suppurative peritonitis, little permanent good can be expected from laparotomy and the evacutition of the pus. The procedure would, however, be worthy of trial in any case in which from the symptoms all hope was not utterly abandoned. VI. Perinephric Abscess.—Either acute or chi-onic inflammation of the ccllulo-adipose tissue about the kidney is very likely to end in suppura- tion. Causes.—The various injuries to which this part of the body is liable, such as blows, strains, [umctured and incised wounds, whether they involve the kidney or not, and whether urine is extravasated or not, are likely to excite ])erinephric abscess. Sometimes the exciting cause is a chill, especially after exposure to great heat, and after sweating; it occurs during the course of, or as a sequel to, the continued fevers ; and it is often the consequence of exten- sion of inflammation from other parts, namely, the pelvis, colon, testicle and siiermatic cord, spleen, liver, gall-bladder, or vertebra?. It most frequently originates in suppurative pyelitis or nephritis, by extension through or actual })Crforation of the capsule—tlie kidney-atfection in some cases being secondary ' Guy’s IIosp. Reports, 3d series, vol. xviii. p. 383. 2 Trans. Clinical Society, vol. iv. p. 13. 3 See Dr. G. Woodrutf JoLnston’s paper, loc. cit.