317 DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR. always begin witli a twenty-grain solution, and inci’ease, if necessary, to one of double or treble that strength. In the majority of cases it is not necessary to use habitually anything stronger than a tliirty-grain solution. I am not in the habit of making the applications oftener than once every other day, or three times a week ; and if, by the end of the third or fourth week, I Lave not succeeded in allaying the major part of the naso-pbaryngeal irritation, I a<lvise the patient to take a rest of one, two, or three weeks, before I resume the applications to the affected region. If no improvement whatever results from the first series of applications, it is not at all likely that a continuance of the same treatment will prove any more successful. It is more than likely, in such a case, that adenoid vegetations are present, or that some similar condition of the vault of the pbaiynx exists. In addition to these direct remedial applications, we must see to it that the patient is not indulging the habit of smoking to excess, or of imbibing fre- quently the stronger (undiluted) alcoholic drinks. Both of these haliits tend unmistakably to promote congestion of the naso-pharyngeal mucous mem- brane. The jiractice of injecting weak remedial solutions through the catheter into tlie middle ear—or at least into the Eustachian tube—is one wlncli I have long ago abandoned, though I believe tliat it is still very commonly followed by Eurojiean specialists. The good effects }iroduced l*y the ajiplication of remedies to the naso-pliaryngeal cavity are not by any means conhned to that particular region ; they extend promptly to the neighboring Eustachian tube, and even to the middle ear proper, and we may place sutHcient confidence in this extension of a beneficial therapeutic influence, to justify us in abstaining from all direct interference with the deeper regions. I know that Euro})can authorities are all against me in this opinion, but my own experience, and that of at least some of my brother specialists, warrant me in maintaining it strongly. While tlie treatment of the naso-pbaryngeal disease often succeeds in re- storing the middle ear to a normal condition witliout tlie aid of any other measures, it is better, as a ride, to employ systematic-ally intlations by Bolit- zer’s method, in addition to the naso-pbaryngeal treatment, just as soon as tlie ear has been free from iiain for a period of two oi' three consecutive days. The beneficial effects of this procedure are to be attributed in part to pi-essure upon the swollen mucous membrane of the Enstaebian tube and micldlc ear, in part to the restoration of that condition of equilibrium to bicli I have already made reference, in jiart to the actual expulsion of some of the mucus or muco-})US contained in the middle ear, and perhaps also in part to the breaking up of any fresh adhesions tliat may have formed between different parts ot the rnemlirana tynqiani, or chain of ossicles, and the neighlioring walls of the cavity. Experience has shown that excellent results are obtained by resorting to I’olitzer’s intlations only on alternate days; and it lias liecn found, furtlierniore, that three or four successful inilations, at each visit or sitting, suthce. In a tew cases we sliall find it necessary to emploj^ the catheter, in order to gain an entrance for the air into the middle ear; but in the great majority of instances we shall find no need of subjecting the patient to this very unpleasant operation. In persons who are somewhat depressed in health, especially if they have passed the age of fifty, it is not an unusual experience to tail in our etl'orts to restore the atiected ear to its normal condition, either in appearance or in function. The naso-[»liaryngeal mneons membrane seems to res[»ond well enough to treatment, but the Eustachian tube and middle ear lag behind, and display very little recuperative power. Under these circumstances, I perse- vere in the treatment for three, four, or perhaps five weeks, using as adjuncts