DISEASES OP THE JAWS. 581 mately with very little, if any, support for artificial teeth. Salter has sug- gested that the early application of artificial teeth would tend by use to strengthen and maintain the permanence of the new bone; but there are no facts to support this view. Hyperostosis of Jaws.—Under the name hyperostosis^ may be conveniently grouped together a number of cases in which general enlargement ot the maxillary bones occurs, without any distinct tumor which could be properl^^ placed among the osteomata. Enlargement of the angles of the lower jaw, quite unconnected with the development of the teeth, and giving a peculiarly broad appearance to the face, occurs in otherwise healthy subjects of About twenty, and these enlargements appear to remain stationary. In true hyperos- tosis, however, there are large bosses of bone, often symmetrical, thrown out by the bones of the face and cranium, which slowdy but steadily increase in size, producing hideous deformity, and ultimately causing the death of the patient. Ilowship, Cooper, and Bickersteth have recorded remarkable instances of this affection, which appears to be unconnected with syphilis, and to be unaffected by medicines. Cases in which the disease is unilateral, may fairly be sub- mitted to operative proceeding, and I have twice relieved patients from considerable deformity by sawing or gouging away a portion of the pro- jecting bone without any external incision. In one case, that of a lady aged thirty-nine, the eidargement of the right upper jaw was attributed to a blow on the cheek; in the other, that of a man aged forty-six, the enlargement in the same situation came on a[)parently without cause. Sir James Paget has recorded^ some cases of osteitis deforrivms, affecting many of the bones of the body, including the skull, which closely resembled in some particulars the cases recorded by other surgeons as liyperostosis; but in these, as also in cases recorded by Dr. Cayley and Dr. Goodhart,^ cancer of some sort was present in addition. This would appear to place these cases of general osteitis deformans in a dif- ferent category from those in which the disease is confinetl to the bones of the skull or face, and in which, as tar as is known, no cancer has been found. OdOxXToma, or tooth-tumor, is the name given by Broca to the group of cases in which tlie tumor consists of tooth-elements more or less hypertrophied. The majority of these are outgrowths from the ]»ul]) of well-formed teeth, or at least have their connection with the teetli well marked, and may therefore be more properly considered in the pages devoted to dental surgery. There is one form of odontoma, however, which is strictly surgical, since it is apt to give rise to serious mistakes in the diagnosis and treatment of one form of tumor of the jaw. This depends upon some modification of the germs of one or more of the molar teeth of the lower jaw, before the development of the cap of dentine, leading to the formation of an irregular mass of dental tissues in no way resembling a tooth in shape. These eases are very rare, and occur only in the lower jaw. The symptoms are those of a dense tumor expanding the bone, in which there is no pain, unless the mass should interfere with the development of the wisdom-tooth, or be mistaken for a misplaced tooth or a sequestrum, wlien acute intlammation may be excited in the jaw itself by inef- fectual attempts at removal. Very eminent surgeons have been misled by these cases, and have unnecessarily sacrificed }iortions of the lower jaw, when, as experience has shown, enucleation of the gi’owth could invariably have been undertaken with success. I have recently had under my care a case of this kind, in which persistent efforts to remove what was supposed to be an im- • Medico-Cliirurgical Transactions, vol. lx. 2 ralbological Society’s Transactions, vol. xxix.