INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1050 utfected, and then hy interfering by its pressure witli the functions of the particular organ, or of some other important structure in its neighborhood, liearing tliese tacts in mind, what has been said respecting hydatids of the liver holds good of similar tumors of the kidney, spleen, omentum, etc. I shall therefore dismiss the subject of hydatids of the other abdominal and pelvic organs in a very few words. Hydatids of the Gall-bladder.—AValther says* that he once met with hydatids in the cavity of the gall-bladder; hut he regarded this as an unicpie morbid condition. Hydatids of the Spleen.—The recognition of the hydatid nature of the tumor A\dll rest ujion the same evidence as in hydatid of the liver; hut the diagnosis as to whether in any particular case the cyst is in the spleen, left lobe of the liA’er, or left kidney, Avill be liased on the same objective symptoms as in cases of other sAvellings in the left hypochondrium. This is often exces- sively difficult, and in the cases in Avhicli the fluid contained in the cyst presents cholesterine, and is found to give the play of colors Avith nitric acid suggesting the presence of bile,^ confusion is almost sure to be caused. Generally, hoAvever, a hydatid tumor of the spleen extends too far back in the left hypochondrium and left loin to be mistaken for a groAvth in the left lobe of the liver. The absence of all renal or A^esical irritation Avould help to exclude the kidney, but Avould not absolutely do so. The treatment should be based on exactly the same principles as have been described under the heading of hydatids of the liver.^ Hydatids of the Kidney.—In some cases no symptoms exist, in others, besides the presence of a renal tumor, there may be attacks of renal colic, fol- loAved by the discharge of hydatid vesicles per W'ethram. Hydatid cysts of the liver, it should be remembered, have sometimes discharged themselA'es into the pelvis of tlie kidney. If a renal cyst enlarges it is apt to be mistaken for an ovailan cyst, and patients have been operated upon under this erro- neous diagnosis. A renal hydatid cyst may burst into the pelvis of the kidney, or into the intestine, or peritoneum, or lung. Suppuration may occur either befoi’e or after a puncture has been made, and then fever and lumbar pain set in as a rule. The diagnosis is made certain if, Avhen the histoiy and situation of a tumor suggest the kidney as its seat, hydatid A-esicles are passed by the urethra. The -prognosis ami treatment are the same as in hydatid of the liver—Avith this reservation, hoAA'ever, as respects prognosis: that hydatids of the kidney, as of the spleen, are very often secondary to hydatids of the liA^er. Hydatids of Mesentery and Omentum.—-Hydatid tumor in either of these parts occurs occasionally, either alone or in conjunction Avith hydatid of tlie liver. A woman, aged 45, who had jumped out of a window, was admitted into the Middle- sex Hospital under my care, Avith a number of fractured bones. She died, and at the post-mortem examination there Avas found a rounded liydatid tumor, the size of a small ‘ Annot. Academ. 2 See paper by IIal)ershon, Guy’s IIosp. Rep., 3d series, vol. xviii. p. 384. * For details of cases of liydatid of the spleen, see Bright, Clinical Memoirs on Abdominal Tumors; Haberslion and Hilton Fagge, Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d ser., vols. xiv. and xviii.; BristoAve, St. Thomas’s Hospital Reports.