INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1090 (3) Renal abscess may possibly follow the operation as the result of wounding an organ already long irritated by the presence of a calculus. I do not know of it having occurred, and it is much more probable that any morbid change started by the calculus would be checked and repaired by the removal of the cause—a result which is proverbially known to occur in other tissues of the body. Moreover, if such a secpiela should happen, it is only what would be sure to arise sooner or later if the calculus were to remain in the kidney. (4) A renal fistula, or a more superficial, purulent fistula, may follow, but though the chances are against its occurrence, such a result would be a welcome substitute for the ceaseless pain and chronic invalidism of the con- dition which it would replace. Rephrorraphy was first performed by Dr. E. Hahn,' of Berlin, though the experience of others, including my own, had quite prepared us to accept some such operation as a distinct step in the treatment of wandering kidney. It is practised in cases of floating, movable, or wandering kidney, in which the organ, besides being mobile, is the seat of fi-equent severe and spasmodic attacks of pain, or of more or less continuous sutfering. The operation consists in fixing the kidney in the loin, and is performed by exposing the organ through a lumbar incision such as that described for nephrotomy and nephrolithotomy. This done, a strong catgut suture should be passed through the renal capsule and the edge of the parietal wound. By tigh- tening and knotting this suture, the kidney is fixed back against the lumbar parietes. The wound should be stufted with carholized gauze, or boracic lint, and left to heal by granulation. The operation has been performed several times by Kfister, Esmarch, Bassini, David Hewman,^ and others, and Avith almost uniform success. In one case, however, Gilmore found that the suture cut its way out of the kidney and set the viscus once more free ; be afterwai’ds successfully removed the kidney by lumbar nephrectomy. Dr. Robert E. Weir, in fixing the kidney of a woman aged thirty-three, cut along the outer edge of the quadi-atus lundiorum, from the last rib to the iliac crest, thus making a longitudinal instead of an oblicjiie incision, and stitched the peri-renal fat to the edge of the external Avound, leaving this open to fill by granulation. The patient did Avell, and Avas greatly improved by the operation. Hahn also made a longitudinal incision, and in his first two cases simply stitched the peri-renal adipose tissue to the parietes by eight or ten catgut sutures; but as the result in one of these cases was not quite satisfac- tory, he passed tlie catgut suture in his third case through the renal capsule. Hahn advises that the kidney should be fixed as Ioav doAvnas possible, so as to obviate the effects of dragging Avhen the patient resumes the upright posture. Experience Avill have to decide Avbether there is any necessity for penetrating the envelope of the kidney. Gilmore’s case shoAvs that the same Avant of success may follow from the renal as from the peri-renal suture. Indeed, though a suture seems to give an extra chance of success, and adds but little extra risk to the lumbar incision, it is not yet adequately proved that any suture is requisite to attain the end in AueAV. Before the publication of Dr. Halm’s paper, I had advocated the lumbar incision alone as a probable cure for niovable kidney, and I bad attributed the relief Avbieh folloAved in a case in Avbieh I had made an exploratory incision, to the retention of the organ in its place by the contraction and adhesion resulting from the Avound. The surgeon must, boAvevei', look to the future to decide these and many other C[uestions relating to the surgery of the kidney. 1 Centralblatt fiir Chirurgie, 23 Juli, 1881. 2 Bi-it. Med. Jourii., April 28, 1883.