497 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND FAUCES. whilst ill milder cases the constant tendency to sore throat and the general failure of Iiealth and strength without olivious cause should direct attention to the tonsils. On inspection, the tonsils ivill be seen as large, white, glistening masses, often meeting in the middle line, and presenting yellow spots due to inspissated mucous secretion. Hypertrophied tonsils may project into and down the pharynx, but can never reach up to and obstruct the Eustachian tubes ; the deafness so commonly found in these cases is due to the generally con- gested condition of the mucous membrane, which is relieved by the removal of tlie glands. The application of local styptics in the form of a solution of nitrate of silver (gr. x to f§j), or the glycerine of tannin ; the use of catecliu or kra- meria lozenges, or the employment of a spray of sulphate of zinc (gr. x to fSj), are all useful in slight eases by keeping tlie disease in check, while the patient’s health is improved by sea air and tonics. In severe cases, removal of the projecting portion of the tonsil is the best remedy, and is much less painful and intinitely more satistactory than drilling the tonsil with a sharp stick of nitrate of silver, or caustic potassa, as has been recommended. The simplest form of guillotine, used with a pair of volsella forceps (Fig. 1004), by Fig. 1004. which the tonsil can be drawn thoroughly into the ring with the opposite liand, is preferable to the complicated guillotines fitted with a fork, which are apt to get out of order, and which require considerable practice for their successful em- ployment. The patient being seated in a good light, with the head thrown hack and the hands held by assistants, the guillotine can be slipjied into the mouth, which it immediately gags. Tlie forceps then grasping the tonsil through the ring of the guillotine, draws it well forward, and a sharp movement of the thumli drives home the blade of tlie guillotine and cuts a large portion off. Without withdrawing the guillotine, it is turned round and the other tonsil is similarly treated by clianging hands, before the little patient has really time to cry. It is quite sutficient to remove a large portion of a tonsil, and any attempt to remove the whole is likely to he followed by shaiq) bleeding; but at the same time it is necessary to pull the piece to be removed well into the ring, BO as to avoid notching the pillar of the fauces, from which the mucous mem- Fig. 100.5. Fahnestock’s tonsillotome. hrane is continued directly on to the tonsil, occasionally Iiolding it very firndy. Ordinarily, the sucking of ice for a few minutes staunches all Ideeding, but if not, the bleeding surface, and that only, should be painted with the solution VOL. V.—-12