INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 592 cause. It is not, however, the uncomely look of these contractions alone which calls for the surgeon’s attention, but the displacement of partsand the embarrass- ment of function depending thereon demand to he remedied. It is chiefly after deep burns that these deformities are met with, and in such cases the most extensive displacement may take place, the chin being drawn towards the chest, or the head twisted or held firndy in some inconvenient or ungainly ])Osition. The power and long endurance of such contractions are well known. When the lower jaw is drawn down and fixed, and the lower lip everted, the gums exposed, and the tissues swelled and livid, a most distressing appear- ance is produced, and if it is established early in life, and not corrected, the development of the face is so interfered with that recovery becomes impossible. Excoriations arise Irom the irritation of the dribbling saliva, mastication and deglutition are impaired, and even })honatiou and respiration are seriously hindered. These cicatrices vary much in extent and depth, as also in color and ari’ange- ment. They may be extensively adherent, or may be attached at their ends only. They may vary in color, from white to red, or brown. Bands or cords of great firmness and tenacity, projecting more or less from the surface, and having deep hollows between, run in different directions and produce a very repulsive effect. If ulceration takes place, it is diflieult or impossible to heal it. The treatment of these cicatrices is always diflieult, and often most unsatis- factory. Mechanical appliances, together with a careful attention to position, will achieve much during the consolidation of the cicatrization, but they are apt to he discontinued, or only carelessly applied, before that process is complete and the contractile force exhausted. By successive grafts of new skin, the healing area may be much diminished and the suppleness of the tissues increased. The healing is thus not only ex])edited, but the repairing tissue is rendered much more flexible and abundant, and so more capable of being stretched—a capability which should be taken full advantage of as long as the due closure of the wound is not arrested. IsTo operation need be at- tempted while the contraction is active, and it is far from easy to decide when best to interfere, as each case presents special features which require consideration. WTien old, inodular tissue does not readily allow of meddling; it is apt to have firm and insoluble connections established, and the deformity is often great and incapable of rectification. To allow of stretching the tissue, incisions of various kinds are employed, while to diminish its thickness and resistance, compression, and agents which are supposed to promote absorption, have been used. To get altogether rid of the objectionable material, its removal has been effected by caustics or by excision, followetl by simple re-union of the bordering healthy tissues, or by replacing by a plastic operation what has been taken away. The treatment by incision is seldom adequate to the requirements of these cases, and it is not easily ap})lied in an effective way in the neck. Though carried out with ingenuity and skill, it has often failed. Sometimes open incisions have been made; sometimes subcutaneous; occasionally the hands have been merely divided, and at other times they have l)een dissected up from the parts below. Multiple, small incisions, and extensive and deep ones, have all been tried. They have been made across the hands, or in zigzag, and all that mechanical skill could suggest in the way of apparatus, to keep up exten- sion afterwards, has been used, but in nine cases out of ten they have only led to disappointment by their inadequacy to counteract the contraction, or by the irritation, inflammation, and ulceration Avliich the subsequent exten- sion has induced. When the cicatrix is limited in extent, lies in the line of the superficial muscles, and is set in supple tissue, perhaps the most satisfactory way is to