ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 1021 tympanitic ; within a fortnight an abscess had formed in the back, and was opened ; it discliarged at the time fetid, thin, brown [)us, and gas ; and four days afterward a hard round substance the size of a nutmeg escaped from the wound. Tlie child made a quick recovery. The concretion consisted of a nucleus composed almost entirely of cholesterine surrounded with feces. The biliary origin of the nucleus was beyond doubt.^ Occasionally a fecal abscess may be avoided, altbongh the bowel is entirely perforated by the adhesion of some neighboring organ to the edges of the ulcer. A case of syphilitic stricture of the rectum was under the care of my colleague Mr. Lawson, in 1881. There was a great deal of ulceration above the stricture, and at one spot, six inches from the anus, a perforation the size of a sixpence existed ; but no extravasation had occurred, as the left ovary formed the floor of the ulcer, though not absolutely adherent to its margin at all }»oints. The secondary fecal abscesses, those namely in which fecal extravasation takes place into an abscess already existing, may like the primary cases arise from many causes. These have been enumerated under the sections “ Abscess of the Parietes” and “ Circumscribed Peritoneal Abscess,” “ Retro-peritoneal Abscess,” and “ Ilio-pelvic Abscess.” Did space permit, I might relate cases of each of these varieties of abscess which have at a later stage become fecal. I may however refer to the first case of fecal abscess ever recorded ill the London Pathological Society’s Transactions. It was published by Mr. Caesar Hawkins.^ The case occurred in the person of a man, aged twenty-four, wlio fell from a height of twenty feet and ruptured bis diaphragm. On the following day he complained of a fixed, defined pain on the left side, a little below the hypocbondrium ; this was accompanied by slight laematemesis and inability to take food. Till the ninth day he progressed favorably, but then he was seized with collapse, attacks of which occurred sub- sequently at intervals till about the tenth week, when he was seized with pain in the abdomen accompanied by constipation, and followed by diarrhcea, and by the passage of blood by stool. An acute attack of pleurisy set in, of which he died in the tliirteenth week after admission. lie was kept alive by enemata the whole of the time, as the inability to take food by the mouth continued throughout. At the [)OSt-mortem exami- nation, a large cyst was found in the lower part of the abdomen among the convolu- tions of the intestines, containing pus and fecal matter, and communicating with the lower part of the colon. In the left pleural cavity were two distinct, circumscribed etfusions, the one at the upper and the other at the lower part of the cavity, between the lung and the diaphragm. There was a laceration an inch across in the diaphragm, and through this the lower pleural abscess communicated with another in the abdomen, behind the stomach, and bounded likewise by the spleen and kidney ; it contained about a half pint of pus. There was a further partial laceration of about six inches in length, in the part of the diaphragm forming the wall of this abscess. In this case the seizure of abdominal pain, followed by diarrhoea and tlie passage of blood by stool, marks the time at which one of the circumscribed peritoneal abscesses 0})ened into the colon, and in turn became fecal by the e.scape into it of some of the contents of the large bowel. <S'///Aiptoms.—Fecal abscesses are too diverse in their origin and course to allow of any description of symptoms applicable to all. Many of them have nothing in common ; and tliis is what would be expected by those who bear ill mind that the abscess itself, in primary cases, is Init a complication of some })re-cxisting morbid condition; and that in the secondary class the fecal ele- ment is but an accident in the course of an abscess from whatever cause arising, just as ill other persons, or under other conditions, the opening of an abscess ‘ Trans. Patli. Soc. Loud,, vol. xxviii. p. 130. 2 Ibid., vol. i. p. 150.