988 INJURIES ANII DISEASES OE THE ABDOMEN. closed state, and tlius measured about 4 inches; thick soups, puddiii’g, and bread, were partaken of freely, and in five da}’s the foreign body was }»assed j)er (mum, much changed in appearance from the action of the gastro-intestinal secretions, which had freely acted upon it, and even upon the lead which it contained when swallowed. The case was brought to my notice by a former pupil, Mr. AV. II. Foihcs, to whom I am indebted for the accompanying drawing of the pencil-case after its discharge from the bowel. M. Ilevin, in his exhaustive memoir, has related some very interesting cases of persons who had swallowed knives, etc., and whose stomachs were opened for the removal of the foreign substances. I’oland has collected six very interesting cases of foreign bodies in the stomach ;— One is the case, described by Dr. Marcet,^ of tlie sailor who between June, 1799, and his death in Guy’s Hospital in March, 1809, from perforation of the stomacli, swal- lowed a large number of clasped knives, several of which he passed per aniim and others of which he vomited. The stomach, with between thirty and forty fragments of knives, was removed after death, and is now in Guy’s Hospital Museum. Another case is related by Dr. Barnes, of Carlisle, of a juggler, who on November 17, 1823, acci- dentally swallowed a table knife with a bone liandle, together about 9 inches in length. It remained quiet until January 16, 1829, when he died of gangrene of the duodenum, caused by pressure of the lower end—the handle—of the knife. This knife is in the museum of the College of Surgeons, London. The third case is that of a man, aged 23, a patient in the Beckham House Lunatic Asylum, who swallowed several spoons and s[)Oon-handles, and died, after an interval of five months, from peritonitis and per- foration of the duodenum. Thirty-one entire spoon-handles, about 5 inches long, besides four lialf handles, nine nails, half of the iron heel of a shoe, one screw, four peb- bles, and one button—making together a mass weighing 2 pounds 8 ounces—were found in the stomach and duodenum. In the other three cases I'eferred to by Poland, gastro- tomy was performed successfully, and in each instance the foreign body was a knife. Oti the 9th of April, 1876, M. Labbe removed by gastrotomy a fork, which had been in the stomach of a man, aged 20 years, for two years —■ An incision, four centimetres long, was made along the borders of the ribs, and the stomach, before it was opened, was attached to the abdominal parietes by eight points of suture, passed by liighly curved needles at a distance of a centimetre from the circumference of the external wound. On the fifth day after the operation the patient began to take solid food, and the aperture into the stomach was quickly reduced to a mere fistula. M. Labbe lays great stress on the importance of fixing the stomach to the abdominal parietes before opening it.^ Sometimes foreign bodies, such as pieces of wool, cloth, string, etc., are swallowed by hysterical women and then vomited at will, to the astonishment nnd alarm of their friends. Dr. Cobbold has mentioned the case of a lady who consulted him on acconnt of an affliction, which she described as “ the worm that dietli not.” It appeared, she said, frequently in her vomit. On examination “the worms” proved to be small fragments of differently colored ■wools which she had swallowed.® Treatment.—Aperients, so often resorted to in these cases, shoidd be avoided. If the foreign body be one likely to ]iass through the canal, rest in the hori- zontal position, and the use of food adapted to form a soft, pultaceons sur- rounding, should be enjoined. Thick soup, farinaceous puddings, eggs, etc., should be taken, and then, at the end of four or five days, if the foreign sub- ' Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xii. p. 52. 2 Gazette Ilebdom., 5 Mai, 187tl; also, Am. Journ. Med. Sciences, July, 1876, p. 279. * Gases of much interest are related in Bryant’s Manual for the Practice of Surgery, and hy Pollock, in the article on Injuries of the Abdomen, in the System of Surgery edited by Holmes and llulke ; and for a list of published cases of foreign bodies in the digestive canal, the reader may refer to an article by Dr. Mignon in the Union Medicate, Nov. 1874.