INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 8Ut) already noted the rarity of its appearance in lacerations of the lung with- out externa] wound. Again, in these thirty cases, emphysema was present but five times, a fact resulting, as Dr. Fraser states, from the injuries having been bullet-wounds, not stabs, for in the latter—in modern warfare, a comparativeh’ rare injury— emphysema is most constant. Its presence in the areolar tissue around a })unctured wound does not necessarily impl}' that the lung is wounded, it may result from the introduction of air into the pleural cavity, the lung- escaping any injury, or it may occur in certain superficial injuries without even a wound reaching beyond the superficial muscles. I have seen, for instance, well-marked emphysema around a punctured wound, extending for some distance through the muscular planes where the injury occurred, tlius:— A boy climbing over an iron railing armed with spikes above, slipped in turning over the spikes; he fell, and his clothes and skin catching on the spikes, he was sus- pended ; the spike supporting him entered the posterior fold of the axilla, low down on the chest, and his weight was for a few moments borne by the skin and the latissimus dorsi muscle, with his clothes ; he was lifted off by a passer-by, and carried to hospi- tal, when there was found a small wound with emphysema all around and extending beneath the muscle. A couple of days cleared away the indrawn air, and no trace or symptom of wound of the chest-cavity or lung impeded recover}-. Returniug to the group of cases above quoted, we find the passage of air through the loound present in only seven instances. It -n'ould appear, then, that each one of these cardinal symptoms of penetrating wound may be wanting, and, further, that each in its turn is more frequently absent than present; on what then are we to rely for diagnosis ? I would desire to say that, although I would not place implicit reliance on any one of the heretofore accepted signs of lung-wound, if there were three or more of them present, I should consider their concurrence as strong presumptive proofs of lung- wound. To these add a weak pulse, a cold and clammy skin, orthopnoea with effu- sion of blood—now easily diagnosed by aid of percussion and the stethoscope—and the presence of ecchymosis of blood in the loins (but which I never witnessed, although it is dwelt upon as a certain evidence of effusion into the pleural cavity, by Valentin and others); with all these, or the majority, it maybe considered as nearly certain that tlie substance of the lung has been wounded.* Dr. Fraser’s table of cases, of which I have quoted the essential details, supports with the incontrovertible argument of accurately observed facts, his assertions which I have copied. In this may be seen repeated the obser- vation of all exact observers in every branch of medicine, that unqualified reliance cannot be placed on any i)articular symptom. Flay, even the testi- mony of two witnesses is insutficient; the whole statute must be fulfilled, and the concurrence of three only can be admitted to be incontrovertible. The difficulty that seems to be present to the mind of most writers on ])enetrating wounds, in establishing a correct basis for discussion of the sub- ject, is the theory of collapse of the lung on opening the pleural cavity. It must be borne in mind that the estimate of pulmonary collapse is derived from a veiy fallacious test, the observation of the phenomenon in the dead body—or rather from an over-estimate of the tendency and amount of the elastic retraction of the lung on the admission of air. The condition of the lung in the living and dead is widely different; in the living, a heated air fills" the air-cavities, and the lung-vessels are full of blood exposed to active pressure from the right ventricle of the heart; in the dead, these conditions Fraser, op. cit., page 87.