344 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TUE EAR. crosses the l)one at about that level. Oii the other hand, if we make the incision a little too far forward, we may nick this artery or incise it longi- tudinally, and so prepare the way for the development of a false aneurism, as has already twice happened, once in my own practice and once in that of Dr. Charles J. Kipp, of Kewark, K. J. After the bleeding from the wound has ceased—and, within reasonable limits, the more protracted and tlie more copious the bleeding, the better—I usually introduce a small tent well-smeared with vaseline, for the purpose of preventing the wound from healing by first intention. Hot flaxseed-meal poultices should then be applied to the mastoid region as often as may he found necessary to keep the parts ■warm and moist. As Sir 'William 'Wilde, of Dublin, Ireland, was the first to call attention to the deckled, restraining influence which such deep incisions of the mastoid integu'ments exert upon an inflammation of the body of that bone, it is eminently proper that the name of “ A\'’ilde’s incision” should be retained for this most efficient therapeutic procedure. Dinally, in those cases in which the pain has persisted steadily for several days, and has perhaps resisted all the measiu’es that may have been adopted for its relief—and in which all the local signs point ipiite clearly to a serious degree of inflammatiou in the body of the mastoid process—we should proceed without further delay to establish a broad opening in the outer part of this bony prominence. The steps of this operation, which ordinarily must be performed with the aid of aii ansesthetic,' are as follows; First, the outer surface of the mastoid hone must be laid hare. Formerly I was in tlie habit of doing this by means of a longitudinal incision, which terminated below' at the tip of the process. I found, hoAvever, tliat in pushing the periosteum foiwvard, so as to lay hare the hone in the vicinity of the meatus, I encountered a troublesome degree of resistance on the part of this strong fibrous sheath. ]\Iy present plan is to make an obtuse-angled or crescent- shaped incision, of -which the upper end begins above the meatus, in the hairy scalp (wdiich in this region must first he shaved), wdiile the low'er end reaches nearly to the tip of the process. If this sort of an incision be made, no difficulty will he experienced in pushing the periosteum fonvard, and in exposing the surface of the process fully to view. If the periosteum adheres firmly to the underlying hone, I find it desirable to employ a strong, dull- cdged knife such as is represented in Fig. 903. If the bone be found softened Fig. 903. at any point, the attempt should be made to break through it at this spot, and tlius complete the w^ork wdiich nature has begun. The outer surface of the hone, how'ever, is usually found to present a normal appearance. Under such circumstances, the drill should he applied to the bone at a point about a quarter of an inch distant from the orifice of the canal, and a little below' the level of its upper w^all. The instrument should then lie rotated in a direction inw'ard, a little forward, and a little upward, that is, in a direction nearly 1 In three instances I have, at the patient’s earnest request, performed the operation without the aid of an aiiiesthetic.