INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 686 gotomy or tracheotomy adds a proportionate gravity to the prognosis, ivhich, however, remains good if the operation be not delayed. In very favorable cases, laryngeal stricture may be overcome by systematic dilatation, so that the canula can be permanently withdrawn from the artificial opening. Its continuous retention is recpiisite, however, in most cases—in America at least— the tendency to reproduction of the stricture being usually insurmountable. Tracheal stricture presents an unfavorable prognosis in all instances in which the obstruction is beyond the point at which tracheotomy can be made avail- able, tracheal stricture being hardly ever susceptible of dilatation. When sufiiciently high up to permit a tracheotomy, tlie prognosis as to life is favorable should the operation be successful. When irremediable by opera- tion, death usually occurs gradually by coma. Sometimes it is sudden, by occlusion of the constricted passage witli blood, pus, or mucus. Treatment.—In compression-stenosis, the treatment is necessarily purely symptomatic in many instances, the cure of the stenosis being entirely de- pendent upon cure of the disease by which it lias been caused. Thus a foreign body is to he Avitlidrawn from the cesophagus, an enlarged thyroid gland to be reduced in volume, released from tension, or extirpated, as may be indi- cated, and so on through the group of lesions which may produce tlie com- pression. Relief to the dyspnoea can he afibrded by tracheotomy, pi’ovided that the opening can be made below the point of compression. Occlusion-stenosis from causes of temporary character, such as spasm, in- flammatory tumefaction, oedema, hemorrhagic eti'usion, pseudo-membrane, foreign body, and neoplasm, recpiires the treatment proper to those conditions. Should sutfocative apuoea be threatened, proph^dactic tracheotomy becomes indicated, whether the stenosis be temporary or permanent in character; but the operation may fail to afibrd relief, should the strictured portion of the canal be so far below the artificial opening as to be beyond the reach of a tube. Stricture of permanent character recpiires an artificial opening into the passage below the seat of stricture, as an initial procedure. In the majority of instances, a canula has to be worn during the remainder of the patient’s life; hut much can be done in some cases, especially tliose of laryngeal stricture, towards restoring the normal calibre of the passage, so that the canula may be definitively removed. In exceptional instances, dilatation can be effected without previous tracheotomy ; but there is considerable doubt wliether the necessary manipulations are justifiable except in cases of very moderate occlu- sion of the canal. Laryngoscopy has given great impetus to treatment by dilatation. Desault, as far back as 1793, while favoring catheterization of tlie air-passage in tracheal stenosis, if due to compression by tumor or by foreign body in the oesophagus, as well as in stricture due to wound, on the Avhole }>referred tracheotomy. More than half a century later, and just about the time that laryngoscopy Avas attracting professional attention, this plan Avas revived by Bouchet, under the term “ tubage” of the glottis,^ chiefly in connection Avith occlusion from acute inflammatory processes; but tlie manipulation was not Avell borne by the parts, and tracheotomy had to be performed in every in- stance. When adhesions exist betAveen A-ocal bands, A’entricular bands, or aryte- noid cartilages, they should be divided Avith the knife or the galvano-cautcry, before dilatation is attempted. Re-adhesions are frecpient after both ]iro- cedures. These operations are usually performed through the mouth. In a case of extensive adhesions betAveen the vocal bands. Dr. Eysell," of Halle, 1 Bulletin de I’Academie de MSdecine, t. xxiii. 1858. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 17, 1874 ; Am. Jour. Med. Sci., June, 1875, p. 275.