DISEASES OF THE JAWS. 527 where the alveolus has been perforated, and in many cases the incision will serve to preserve a useful though dead tooth for many years. The only acci- dent which I have known to occur in connection with this operation, was the awkw'ard one of a wound of the facial artery, from the edge of the knife being turned towards the soft tissues instead of against the alveolus. But alveolar abscess does not always point within the mouth. The per- foration of the alveolus may take place beyond the line of reflection of tlie buccal mucous mendirane, and then the matter has to find its ivay to the nearest skin. In this way abscesses, with their resulting fistnlee, may be seen on any part of the face or neck; and occasionally grave errors of diagnosis are made from non-recognition of the fact that alveolar abscesses may burroiv for long distances. I have known one instance of fatal suppuration between the muscles of the neck, leading eventually to suftbcation, due entirely to mischief about a molar tooth in a patient whose health was undermined by drink; and it is common to see cases of fistulous opening, with serious scarring of the face and neck, due solely to the presence of a decayed tooth. In the case of the upper jaw, abscess connected with the incisor teeth not unfrecpiently finds its way backivards along the hard palate, and occasionally, but more rarely, into the nostril, being thus liable to be mistaken for discharge from the nose itself, or from the antrum. Chronic abscesses have been met ivith in the substance of the lower jaiv, depending no doubt upon osteitis, and presumably connected originally with tooth mischief. Since the swelling is the only evidence of the abscess, for it must be very rare for the bone to be sufficiently thinned to yield the crackling feel which is characteristic of contained fluid, it is not surprising that eminent surgeons sliould have removed large portions of the jaw in error, mistaking the tumor for a solid growth. Ilence the rule, which should be invariably followed, to perforate tumors of the lower jaw before cutting the bone, since both abscesses and cysts closely simulate solid growths. In the case of a chronic abscess, the perforation alone, with efficient drainage, would be suffi- cient treatment. Suppuration or empyema op the antrum is another form of chronic abscess, but witli the peculiarity tliat the pus is seldom so completely shut in as to produce distension. In the great majority of cases, the matter constantly escapes by the anterior or posterior nares, and it is this discharge which first attracts the patient’s attention. When escaping from the anterior nares upon the handkerchief, the discliarge is apt to be attributed erroneously to ozrena, but the absence of the characteristic crusts and fetor sufficiently mark the distinction. In oziena, the patient, as a rule, has lost tlie sense of smell, and is unconscious of his offensiveness; whereas, in cases of pus in the antrum,, the patient is conscious of an occasional unpleasant odor, but is not dis- agreeable to his neighbors, though the discharge when blown on the hand- kerchief may be offensive. Often a patient suffering from pus in the antrum complains only of a disagreeable taste in tlie throat and mouth, on awaking in the morning, particularly if he sleep habitually on the side opposite to that of the affected antrum, the purulent fluid then slowly flowing backwards into the pharynx and being partially swallowed, with great detriment to the iligestion. In the exceptional cases where the opening info the nose is closed, the pus tends to accumulate and proiluce distension of the antrum, with absorption of the bony walls, by which the characteristic crackling is produced. It may be doubted, however, whether some at least of these cases are not instances of cyst of the wall of the antrum, the contents of which have become purulent.