MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 112 In many fatal cases of head erysipelas Avith hraiii symptoms, this hyperiemia has been the only cerebral change noticed at the autopsy. In some cases thrombosis of the cerebral sinuses may occur, producing distinctive symptoms. I^othnageP states that such thrombosis is due to extension from some phle- bitis of the surface (scalp or skull). 3Ieningitis is rare in erysipelas, and wdien it does occur is usually suppurative, and due either to metastasis, or more com- monly to direct extension of suppurative inflammation from the bones or soft parts. Iluguenin has only obseiumd it in cases vdiere suppuration existed. When it occurs it is associated Avith the usual symptoms—the patient dying Avith convulsions, paralysis, coma, etc Certain ocular symjdoms may occur iu erysipelas of the head, especially Avhen it iiiAmlves the orbital region. The most common ai’e conjunctivitis and photophobia, the latter often due to cerebral h}’per?emia; in some cases the cornea has ulcerated, and has led to j)erforation and suhsecpient Avasting of the globe (Whagner). Cases also are recorded of complete suppuration of the globe. In many instances a distur- bance of Ausion exists, Avhich, as a rule, perfectly disa})pears during conval- escence, and is ascribed by Ileineke^ to an oedema of the orbital connective tissue. Amblyopia, neuro-retiuitis, and optic atrophy, are reported as occa- sional sequela.', tlie last named being the most frequent. The local symptenns haA-e these j)eculiarities: The inflammation extends Avith unusual rapidity; yet, although the entire head and face may be iu- Amlved, there is little tendency for the erysipelas to extend to the neck or trunk. The mannei’ of extension is \mry irregular on the scalp, although Plieger and Zuelzei’® haA^e endeavored to establish some rules for its extension. If beginning from a Avound, it commonly spreads centrifugally, hut irregularly so ; or, starting from the forehead, it may run transA^ersely around the head to the point of commencement. Over the face it is usually A^ery evenly dis- tributed, the chin, hoAvcA^er, remaining nearly ahvays free. The redness is but very little marked on the scalp, oAving to the tenseness of that structure and its hairy covering ; the sAA'Clling also is incousideralile, and is best noticed at the spreading edge of the erysipelas, Avhere the redness also is best seen. On the face, hoAvever, the redness is most conspicuous, and the SAvelling, especially of the eyelids, often A’ery considerable. Bullie A-ery rarely occur in scalp erysipelas, but are met Avith iu face erysipelas, especially on the forehead, cheeks, ears, and OA’er tiie mastoid process. Abscess is a rare sequela, especially on the scalp, and gangrene or sloughing ai’e still more uncommon. In the eyelid, hoAveA’er, both these conditions are sometimes met Avith in cases that haA^e been seAmre. The- 13’mphatic glands behind the ear and beloAv the occiput, are A’eiy constantl}- enlarged during the eruption. After the eruption has subsided, the hair usuallj" falls off to a A^arying extent, but is in time per- fectly rencAA’ed. Like eiysipelas elseAvhere, that of the head is liable to relapse and to recur. Prognosis.—The prognosis is a little more grave than that of erysipelas elseAvhere, OAving to the probability of cerebral complications, and to the fact that the so-called idiopathic form is apt to occur in unhealthy or debilitated subjects, Avhose veiy ill condition has indeed predisposed them to the disease. In the great majority of cases, hoAveA^er, perfect recovery follov^s. Erichsen’s‘ statement that eiysipelas of the head, “ Avhen arising from Avound, is very commonh^ fatal; Avhen it is idiopathic, it is A^ery seldom indeed folloAA'ed ly death,” is certaiul}' not supported by other observers. The duration of head 1 Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia, vol. sii. p. 212. 2 Pitha und Billroth, Handb. der Cliirurgie, Band iii. 1873. Chirurgische Krankheiten des Kopfes (AV. Heineke), S. 2. ® For full account see Zuelzer, loc. cit., p. 451 et seg. * Science and Art of Surgery, 7th ed., vol. i. p. 701. Loudon, 1877.