MALFORMATIONS AND DEFORMITIES OF THE CHEEKS AND LIPS. 463 into the cavity of the mouth, and to foiTii a vermilion border for each of the newly constructed lips by uniting the mucous membi’ane Avitli the skin. Distortions of the mouth in various directions may be the result of cica- tricial contraction from burns, or from other causes. The angles of the mouth may be drawn upward, or downward, or outward and backward ; or the lips may be widely separated from each other, so that the mouth cannot be closed, and the saliva cannot be retained. Something may he done, dur- ing the process of cicatrization, to prevent these distortions, or to diminish their extent. The principal means to he employed for this purj^ose are the free application of caustic, methodical pressure by adhesive plasters and bandages—to repress the growth of exuberant granulations—and the stretch- ing of the atfected parts in the opposite direction to the threatened distortion. Wlien a large granulating surface is exposed, benefit may often be derived from skin-grafting, inserting small pieces of very thin integument in the midst of the granulations, covering tliem with goldbeaters’ skin, and main- taining close contact for several days by strips of adhesive plaster and bandages. When cicatrization has already taken place, and dense bands of iuodular tissue have greatly distorted the buccal orifice, these bands should be freely divided through their whole breadth and depth by a number of parallel incisions, and the healing process should be retarded by keeping the attected parts upon the stretch, and by frequently re[»eated passive movements. Or, in appro[)riate cases, a single free and deep incision may be made through the cicatricial band, the margin of the lip may be at once brouglit into its proper position, and a flap of integument from the vicinity may be inserted, so as to fill up the chasm produced by the incision and by the reposition of the labial margin. Hypertrophy of the Lips.—This occurs sometimes as a congenital affec- tion, or it may commence at a period subsequent to birth. It may in- volve either li[> or ' \ f both. When it exists to any considerable extent, it constitutes a very conspicuous deformity, and seriously interferes with the functions of the lips. It }ire- sents itself in two forms, partial and general. I’artial hyper- trophy, which affects chiefiy the upper lip, involves the mucous membrane and the suljmucous cellular tissue, and is usually more prominent on either side than in the median line. It has been described by writers as JJoahle Lip. It is cured by excising the hyper- trophied parts and bringing together the edges of the wound with sutures. Dr. Agnew, in his work on Surgery,* gives a wood-cut of Doulde Lip. (Fig. 935.) Ueneral hypertrophy ol‘ the lip involves the skin and mucous mendjrane / ''i A. d".' * Fig. 935. Double lip. (After Agnew.) Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 891.