CRURAL OR FEMORAL HERNIA. 1155 Fig, 1142. is closely adherent to these as well as to the coats of the saphena vein below, from which it cannot he separated. On turning aside the falciform margin of the iliac portion of the fascia lata by detaching it from Poupart’s ligament (Fig. 1142,f), the sheath of the femoral vessels is brought to view. It is a funnel-shaped in- vestment (/:), wider above than below. Its front wall is formed by a prolongation of the fascia transversalis behind Poupart’s liga- ment, to Avhich it is closely attached, the union forming a band of tibres which arcli over the crural opening {Cooper s ligament)^ to be attached to Gimhernat’s ligament and the pectineal line internally. This forms the most usual seat of strangulation in crural hernia. The liinder wall of the femoral sheath is formed by a prolongation of the iliac fascia. It is continuous at the sides with the transversalis offset, and below, at the junction of the saphena vein witli the femoral, it is intimately lilended with the sheaths of those vessels respectively. On the i)iner side, the lymphatics can be seen to per- forate this sheath in numbers. The fuiinel- sha})ed process should be opened by three parallel longitudinal incisions, when it will be found that two septa in the interior seyiarate the femoral vein (which is in the centre) from the femoral artery outside and the lymphatic canal inside. The latter is the channel through which crural hernia passes. It constitutes a section of an inverted cone, tlie base of which is formed by an interval between the septum of the femoral vein outside and the curved base of Gindiernat’s lio-ament inside. The apex is formed by the junction of the saphena vein with the femoral, at the lower part of the saplienous opening in the fascia lata. The sides of the canal are thus of unequal length. Superticiall}^ and internally the extreme width of the falciform or Iley’s ligament expresses it, viz., half to tljree- (piai’ters of an inch. Peliind and externally, the length is one and a half to two inches. The crural rivg (Fig. 1143, c) is thus houndetl in front by the inner end of Poupart’s ligament {a) with the fil)rous hand of Cooper’s ligament over-arching the canal; internally are the blended margins of the structures attaclied to the pectineal line, viz., Gimliernat’s ligament (5), with the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique-and transversalis muscles and the fascia transversalis behind it, and in front the extremity of Iley’s or the femoral ligament and the pubic portion of the fascia lata, joining at the upper edge of the saphenous opening. The area of the crural ring is placed nearly horizontally in the erect posture of the sul ject, with a slight slope upwards, outwards, and forwards; across it is stretched a curtain, <lerived from the subperitoneal connective tissue attached to its edges, perforated by the lymphatics, and usually con- taining a lynqliatic gland envelo}ied in a sheath of the Deep dissection of the parts in crural rup- ture. The upper coruer of the saphenous opening is separated from Gimhernat’s and Poupart’s ligaments and turned hack, show- ing the three compartments of the crural sheath opened hy longitudinal slits. Fig. 1143. The crural ring.