INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 31 least are practically in bony contact. The brain, which fitted fairly well the comparatively smooth base of the child’s skull, has now apparently to lie upon a number of irregular and often sharp bony p)rojections, which, to any one examining a fresh brain and a dry skull, would appear to render the brain liable to serious laceration from the slightest jar of the body, while a jump from the height of a few feet would seem to render disorganization of the base of the brain inevitable. The mechanical effect of the diploe must now be examined. This is normally absent in certain parts, such as the cerebellar fossre, the greater part of the squamous portions of the temporal bones, the orbital plates of the frontal, and the lloors of the lateral sinuses as they a})proach the base of the l)rain. It may also be exceptionally absent in aipy portion of the vault. A blow upon the vault will set up vilirations of tlie outer table, which are transmitted to the inner, with much decrease in force by the damping effect of the diploe. The inner table is both a better conductor of vibra- tions, and also an aniplifier of them. Wherever the diploe is present, the vibrations of the two tables }iass along to certain denser portions of the skull, which externally arc covered with muscle, internally by dura mater and cerebro-s[tinal flnid, where the waves of motion cease. But wlien, provided that they are of sufficient violence, they reach a portion of skull where the di})loe is absent—-just as where the insulating medium is removed lietween portions of an electric circuit, the spark leaps across, and a “shock” results —so the vibratory waves of differing intensity meet ivliero the two tables become continuous, and a fracture takes place. But all Icnow that, upon the whole, the brain is the best protected portion of the body. Ignoring many intrinsic provisions for safety, we shall find that, in the fresh skull, the numerous projecting points of the l )ase, instead of endan- gering the brain, actually protect it. fn truth, these projections no longer exist —being covered by dura mater,and rounded off or overlaid by the great venous sinuses and bloodvessels of the part, especially where the greatest dissimi- larity would seem to exist between the brain and its case, viz., at the central portion of the base. In addition, at these points the brain is lifted off from the skull by a “water-bed” of cerebro-spinal fluid. Did space ]»ermit, I could demonstrate that, where jieculiarly dense portions of the skull are in contact with the brain or other liones, cartilage, sinuses, or arteries—that is, membranous tubes filled with fluid, the best possible arresters of vibrations— are interposed. Suffice it to say, that wherever needed such arrangements exist, so that those vii)rations, excited in walking, etc., which do not neutralize one another, are safely conducted off to be “ damped” by mendu’ane and fluid. Holding the base of a skull iq) to the light, the more massive portions will lie seen to converge, in general terms, to wants the })etrous portions of the temporal bones, the anterior and posterior clinoid j)rocesses, and the crista galli of the etlimoid. The anterior and [)osterior clinoid processes, and the crista galli, are thickly enveloped in membrane and immersed in cerebro- s[)inal fluid. The apex of the ]iefrous bones, and a portion of their inner margins, seem, the fornier in contact with the syihenoidal l»ody, the latter with the basilar process of the occijntal bone. In reality, the apex of the ]>etrous bone is sejiarated from the body of the sjffienoid liy the plate of car- tilaginous tissue which fills the foramen lacerum mediutn, and l>y the carotid artery, white the inferior petrosal sinus lies in a groove formed partly by the petrous bone, ])artly by the basilar ]»rocess of the occipital bone. Any well- informed anatomist can readily fill in this outline sketch of cranial anatomy. Xow set in vibration the skull walls, aiid what results? The vibrations, indeed, reach the base, but only by the anatomical routes, the nearest pref- erably, but by all if the blow be sufficiently violent.