CIIEILOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. 473 Dr. Squire has since proposed to make the linear incisions of the skin oblique instead of perpendicular to the surface, and has devised an instrument for the purpose, which he calls a multiple linear scarifier.^ Cysts of the Lips. Cysts, arising from distension of the follicles and containing a viscid fluid, are sometimes found at the margins of the lips. They may be excised, or they may be laid open so as to evacuate the fluid, and the surface may then be wiped with lint and cauterized with nitric or sulphuric acid. Tumors of the Lips. Tumors of various kinds occasionally present themselves in the lips, such as steatomata, adenomata, papillomata, myxomata, sarcomata, flliromata, and lipomata. Soft papillomata may he destroyed by escharotics, but the other varieties of tumor may more advantageously he excised. Hirsuties. A growth of hair from the lips and cheeks, in the female, is often an occasion of great annoyance. AVlien they are not very numerous, the hairs may be plucked individually with forceps, and the evulsion may he repeated as often as they are reproduced. Dr. Agnew recommends, as a depilatory, three parts of prepared chalk and one part of sulphide of calcium, mixed into a paste with Avater, and applied to the surface Avith a brush. After it has dried, it may be rubbed off, and the hairs are removed Avith it; Imt, after a Avhile, they are reproduced. A radical cure may be effected by destroying the hair follicles, one liy one, by inserting into them a platinum needle and connecting it with the poles of a galvanic battery. CUEILOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. These operations consist in the transplantation of flaps to supply neAv material for the reconstruction of the lips, Avhen a considerable }tortion of their substance has been destroyed by disease or by injury. The flaps em- ployed for this purpose are, for the most part, taken from adjacent })ai'ts of the face or neck, and are left attached by pedicles to the parts from Avhich they derive their nourislirnent until they have become lirmly adherent in their neAv position, and have obtained a neAV vascular supply from the parts into which they have been inserted. The grafting of flaps Avitliout a pedicle is not Avell ada})ted to the supply of ncAv tissue in a part as movable as the lip, and Avhich cannot Avell be kept entirely at rest and subjected to pressure, on account of the necessity of introducing food into the mouth. To remove the deformity arising from a loss of substance of the lips, in such a manner as to restore the symmetry of the month, often taxes the ingenuity ot the surgeon to its utmost limits. The operations Avhich haA^e l»een devised for this purpose present a great variety of details, according to the nature ' See Med. Record, FeU. 17, 1877, p. 107, and .Jan. 17, 1880, p, 04; Med. Press and Circular, Nov. 26, 1879 ; Quarterly Epitome of Pract. Med. and Surg., Marcli, 1880, p. 91.