FOKEIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-PASSAGES. 667 Op. cit., p. 38. Solid, Inorganic, Inanimate, Animate, Hollow, Solid, Organic, Hollow, 1 Regular, 1 I Irregular, < Beads ; needles ; coins and medals; buttons and button- moulds ; bullets; pebbles. Surgical instruments; bul- lets ; stones ; toilet, shawl, and safety pins ; fish-hooks ; dress-hooks ; pens ; puff-darts ; slate-pencils and lead-pencils; spikes, nails, and tacks ; toys ; artificial teeth, with and with- out blocks, pivots, and plates. Rings ; beads ; tracheotomy- tubes ; hypodermic needle; pencil-cases ; whistles; mouth- pieces ; pipe-bowls and pipe- stems. Regular, Irregular, Pills ; beans ; peas ; grains of corn and coffee ; apple, me- lon, raisin, pumpkin, and otlier seeds; acorns; stones of the apricot, cherry, date, plum and prune, tamarind, and other fruits. Pieces of rubber ; fragments of nuts ; nut-shells ; )jieces of fruit, meat, and vegetables ; masticated food ; bones of (jua- drupeds, fish, and fowls; lob- ster claws ; muscle, oyster, and clam shells; spikes of oats; ears of rye, wheat, and barley ; cockle, beech-nut, and other ■{ burrs; blades of grass; leaves, wood, and bark; teeth; fea- thers ; sponges ; matches ; fiddle - pegs ; sealing - wax ; brushes; charcoal; corks; linen and cotton cloth and thread ; yarn and wool; blood- clots ; detached cartilages, bronchial glands, or other tis- sues. Pierced fruit-stones; Cjuills, I goose’s lai’ynx ; rings of bone ; rubber mouth-jiieces and tub- ing. ' AVorms ; fiies ; leeches ; hy- i datids ; oysters ; fish ; bugs. The majority of these suljstances are hard, and not likely to undergo change of size after impaction. Animal and vegetable substances, such as morsels of meat, beans, seeds, etc., may imbibe moisture and augment in size after in- carceration. When retained for long periods, the foreign body may liecome incrusted with desiccated mucus and calcareous matter. Gross^ mentions an instance, quoted from the E[diemerides, in which a concretion was formed as large as a nutmeg. The foreign body is usually single, but cases have been