404 DISEASES AKD INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. when inducing asthma, are almost invariably located on the posterior end of the turbi- nated bone, the area that has been likened by Dr. Mackenzie to the sensitive cough- centres found in the pharynx and larynx. This fact explains the more frecpient occur- rence of asthma at night in those persons who suffer with hypertrophic nasal catarrh. At the posterior end of the inferior turbinated bone, the cavernpus erectile tissue is much thicker and more dilatable than at the anterior; consequently, when in the I’e- cumbent position, the gravitation of fluid distends this portion of tissue, and, together with the accumulation of secretion, occludes the passage ; or reflex irritation of the air-])assages results, and the attack comes on. Dr. Roe appends several cases in which treatment applied to the nose cured the asthma. He advocates removal of the hyper- trophied turbinated bones by the nasal bone-scissors, and of the hypertrophied tissue by Jarvis’s snare. Traube^ relates two interesting cases in which every inspiration was ac- conipanied by a pressing together of the alte of the nose, instead of a normal dilatation, causing nasal stridor and difficult respiration. This phenomenon he attributes to the beginning of paralysis of the respiratory nervous system, and regards the condition as a fatal one, unless properly treated. Still further but less serious results affect the nasal organ directly when its passages ai'e rei^dered more or less impermeable. These need but be alluded to. The inspired current of air is unable, in many instances, owing to the amount of obstruction presented to its entrance, to penetrate to the upper part of the nasal cavities and reach the seat of the distribution of the termi- nal expansions of the olfactory nerve. The sense of smell is thus blunted in direct proportion to tbe amount of interference with the entrance and passage of the air current charged with odoriferous particles. The same obstruction, again, by preventing or interfering with the expulsive force of the expiratory cin-rent, prevents the removal of the usually abnormal amount of secretion, eitlier by blowing the nose or otherwise; its accumulation is in turn an efficient factor in producing obstruction; and a “ vicious circle,” as it has been termed, is thus established. The symptoms, then, of nasal stenosis may be thus summarized; inability to breathe through the nose, and consequent impairment of the sense of smell, Avith its accompanying absence of the per- ception of flavors, hoarseness and disturbance of speech, respiratory obstruc- tion, asthma, sutlden asphyxia, inability to remove the nasal secretions, dryness of the pharynx, a sense of fulness and pressure about the nasal and frontal regions, more or less persistent frontal headache, weakness of the con- junctive, a constantly open mouth—altering, in children, the cast of the coun- tenance—and. Anally, a predisposition to catarrhal inflammation of the respiratory mucous membrane upon the slightest exposure, or on any unfa- vorable change in the weather. As giving rise to the ph^^sical conditions which produce the results here described, a number and variety of causes, as has been stated, can be enumerated. Some, mainly those dependent upon the results of catarrhal inflammation of the nasal mucous membrane, have already been considered. Others still remain, of even more serious import, and will be discussed in detail. Closure of the ISTostrils. Closure of the nostrils may be the result of either congenital malforma- tion, disease, or accident. The former is rare, much rarer than like condi- tions in either anus or vagina. In the rei)orted instances, there has either been an adhesion of the ala of the nostril to the septum, or it has been drawn down ^ Verliandlg. der Berliner med. Gesellscli., Bd. ii. S. 141. 1869—71.