33 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. laws governing vibrations, why in one case a fall upon the feet, knees, or buttocks, produces a fracture of the anterior, and in another a fissuring of the posterior fossae. Such cases as a fracture of only the cribriform plate of the ethmoid by a fall upon the feet, are thus explicable by the conduction and amplitication of vibrations, the motion-waves being directed almost solely forwards, owing to the peculiar position of the occipital condyles as just described.* In the same way, fractures of the apex of the petrous bone and both posterior clinoid }>rocesses,^ and fractures of the peti-ous bone and side of the sella turcica,® with no injury in any instance of the occipital bone through which the force is transmitted, demonstrate beyond doubt the theory of conduction and am[)lilication of vibrations.* The following case, in which the injury was so trivial that it produced no symptoms of any moment, in which the contusion of bruin-substance, if any, was at a minimum, and in which no inhammatoiy symptoms were i)resent, suggests conclusions which I think go far to explain the fatality of basal fractures. Dr. Charles Wirgman requested me to see with liim a young lad who had fallen upon his head when playing leapfrog, but who had walked lionie with his comrade’s assistance, immediately after the injury. When Dr. Wirgman tirst saw him, slight synpitorns of concussion were noted. Next day he seemed Ijetter, oidy complain- ing of some pain in the head. Upon the third day the inq)rovement was very marked, nothing remaining but a little headache. He begged to be allowed to sit at tlie window, and, notwithstanding the doctor’s injunctions, walked about the apai'tment, and went to the yard to evacuate his Ijowels. A few hours after Dr. Wirgman’s last visit, he was hastily summoned, and on his way called for me. Upon our arrival we were informed that the patient had suddeidy been attacked with vomiting, and that eclampsia and death had almost at once ensued. Post-mortem examination revealed an insignificant ecchymosis over the right mastoid region, the result of infiltration of blood from the line of fracture. On opening the skull, a fissure was found traversing tiie right })etrons bone, and extending forwards from the occipito-mastoid suture, which was separated. A minute blood-clot, a few lines in extent, lay near the fracture, within the arachnoid sac, but otherwise the membranes and brain ap[)cared singularly healthy. Hilton reports similar cases in his admirable Lectures on the Cranium. As long as such patients remain quiet, as long as no pliysiological vibra- tions are excited by efforts at locomotion, just so kmg does tbe brain-sub- stance contiguous to tbe lines of fracture remain uninjured. Tbe primary jarring tuid slight brain-contusion are recovered from ; and, slK>uld quiet be sutHciently long* maintained, recovei’y ensues. Let, however, tbe ]>atient, tempted by bis a[»parent recovery, leave bis l)ed,and immediately tbe normal vibrations, wbicb must mecbaincally arise, are excited. Safely conducted away in bcaltb, to points where tbey were annihilated, the course of tbe vibrations is now interruptetl by tbe bssures, and tbe supeiqiosed l»rain-sub- stance is jarred and probably slightly laceratcjl. From such constantly recur- ring injuries, slight though they be, in tbe adult, encephalitis results; in the child, p>erliaps fatal eclampsia. S//iaptoias of Basal Fra.ctare from [adircct Aorcc.—Exce}(t in cases of direct hurt from thrust-wound, access cannot be had to the site of injury, and in many cases, if this were possible, little could be learned by the touch un- aided by sight, as the fragments of basal fractures ai'C rarely displaced, and ' Marmy, Bull. la Soc. Aiiat. de I'aris, p. 258. 1848. * L’Kxperience, NoveinLre, 1843. (Ilewett.) ® Marmy, loc. cit., p. 193. * 111 the Wood Museum (Bellevue Hospital, New York) is an niu'a,talngui“d specinien, pre- sented by Prof. F. S. Dennis, showing marked fissuring of the left petrous hone from a pistol- shot wound of the ri^/it ear. It forms a typieal example of fracture hy transmitted vibrations. VOL. V.—3