1010 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE ABDOMEN. tlie coats of the stomach or some part of the bowel, most frecpiently the duo- denum, and so give rise to an intestinal or gastric biliary fistula. The very small concretions constituting “ biliary gravel,” which are formed in the radicles of the hepatic duct in the interior of the liver, may induce partial olistruction of bile and dilatation of the ducts—in some instances becoming inclosed in firm fibrous cysts, but in others causing ulceration of the ducts and multiple abscesses in the liver. fSi/mptoms.-—The symptoms of these intra-hepatic duct-abscesses are very obscure. They do not cause jaundice, enlargement of the liver, or pain ; but sometimes they give rise to a sense of weight about the liver, with colicky pains and occasional attacks of rigors, followed by heat and sweating as in ague. The extra-hepatic duct-abscesses give rise to biliary colic, tenderness in the hepatic region, and vomiting or intestinal disturbance; and if the abscess be in the common duct, there will almost certainly be jaundice from biliary obstruction, and the liver will be swollen and tender. Treatment must be directed to the alleviation of pain, the abatement of inflammatory symptoms, and the removal of the obstruction, if possible, by the use of non-depressing emetics. It will he seldom, if ever, that surgical treatment will either be indicated or advisable. III. Abscess of the spleen is rare. It results occasionally from primary inflammation of the spleen, and is thus sometimes a consequence of injury, whether contusion or rupture. More frequently, howeve]’, it arises from inflammation secondary to some form of blood-poisoning, and it is then gene- 3’ally of embolic origin, the abscess being indeed a suppurating infarction; such are the cases which are caused by ulcei-ative endocarditis, wounds, surgical operations, and other exciting causes of pyiemia. In other cases, splenic abscess is the result of phlebitis of the branches of the splenic vein. Diffused splenic suppuration is occasionally seen as a secpiel of fevers. Suppurating hydatid cysts also lead to encysted abscesses, and sometimes to suppm-ation in tlie splenic tissue around the cysts. The spleen is sometimes involved in suppuration by extension of peritoneal abscesses, especially of those which are circumscribed, and which occupy the left hypo- chondrium. Mr. Holmes' states that abscess of the spleen occurred in only one of six cases of pyiemia from necrosis of the tibia. In each of the six cases there was abscess of the kidney. Suppurating infarctions are generally well defined, and occur near tlie i)eriphery of the organ; they are wedge-shaped, Avith the liase towards tlie surface and the apex towards the interior; they vary in size from that of a pea to that of a hen’s egg, or even much larger ; and there arc often two, four, six, or moi’e foci present in the same spleen. If the sepa- rate abscesses lircak into each other, they may form one large cavity, contain- ing pus and fragments of gangrenous or necrotic tissue, and occupying one- third or one-half the spleen; or even the whole spleen may be destroyed. liesults.—Splenic abscesses discharge (1) into the stomach or colon, (2) into the left pleural cavity, (3) into the peritoneum. In the latter event it may be the general cavity of the peritoneum into Avhich the abscess opens, but what is'^}ierhaps more frequent is for the ^nis to become inclosed by inflam- matory, fibrinous adhesions between the diaphragm and anterior parietes on the one side, and the stomach, colon, and small omentum on the other. Symptoms.-—The symptoms are in the first place those of inflammation of the spleen. Besides the general and constitutional signs, there are usually 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xiii. p. IS8.