INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 972 tions a case in wliicli there were five or six distinct external apertures, and Dupuytren refers to a somewliat similar instance. Gross,' in speaking of the external orifice of “ artificial anus,” says, that instead of a single opening there are occasionally several, which communicate with the main outlet and sometimes with each other, and he continues, “ this perforated and cribriform state of the parts is generally produced by some of the stercoraceous matter insinuating itself amongst the muscular fibres and cellular substance of the abdomen, hefoi’e the margins of the external orifice are sutficiently protected by the new adhesions. An abscess soon forms, preceded by an erysipelatous blusli of tlie skin, and followed by a discharge of purulent matter, almost insupportably fetid in its character.” This account exactly describes what occurred in a case of fecal fistula under my own care, in which the greater part of the fecal matter was passed by the anus. Causes of Fecal Fistula.—Fecal fistulie are either congenital, and due to de- fects of development; or non-congenital, and the effect of pathological causes. Congenital fecal fistula is occasionally due to the persistence of the omphalo- mesenteric duct. This constitutes a rare form of umbilical fistula, attended with a fecal or biliary discharge. Cooper Forster^ mentions two such cases, and Holmes^ alludes to two others, in one of which the fiuid which escaped was pure bile, in the other a mixture of bile with the ordinary intestinal con- tents and ingesta. Prof. Marshall has reported the case^ of a male child, with a projecting tumor of the umbilicus, the size of a hazel-nut, of a florid-red color, and perforated at its apex by an orifice from which there was a constant mucous discharge. This opening led into a long canal, into which a probe passed backwards and to one side, and not downwards towards the bladder; nor had urine ever passed by the umbilicus. The direction of the canal, and the statement that fluid, in color and smell like the contents of the bowel, had occasionally exuded from the external orifice, led Mr. Marshall to diagnose the case as one of that rare condition—namely, persistence of the early con- nection between the umbilical vesicle and the intestine of the embryo ; the red protrusion being the enlarged stump of the umbilical cord. The external orifice was successfully closed by dissecting away the mucous membrane and bringing the raw edges together; but, as Mr. Marshall pointed out, there would always be a risk that fecal matter might accumulate in this (then closed) duct, and set up inflammation and suppuration. In cases of abscess in the anterior wall of the abdomen, followed by dis- charge of such substances as cherry-stones, or other foreign or fecal matter, there is often an intestinal diverticulum formed, according to Meckel, by a persistence of the vitelline duct. Another group of congenital fistnlie is formed by those associated with imper- forate anus. These may open externally in the raphe, near the scrotum or near the posterior commissure of the labia, or on some other part of the perineum ; or in the loin, as in a.case seen by Larrey, in which the opening was three inches from the spine. I have a note of a case in which the rectum of a new- born child opened in the liiiea alba, between the umbilicus and symphysis pubis; and other cases are on record in which the fistulous opening has l)een in the linea alba, or in some other part of the front wall of the abdomen. In other cases the fistula opens internalljg into the vagina, or in the male into tlie bladder or urethra. When the rectum opens into the vagina, the amount ot sutfering and inconvenience is sometimes remarkably slight. I operated, > Exj)erimental and Critical Inquiry into the Nature and Treatment of Wounds of the Intes- tines, p. 177. 2 Surgical Diseases of Children, London, 1860. 3 Principles and Practice of Surgery, 3d ed. ^ Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 5, 1868, p. 640.