887 TRAUMATIC PERITONITIS. traumatic rupture of the thoracic duct without an external wound, could occur; but if it happened, and life were prolonged for any number of days afterwards, the physiological purposes of the duct suggest what the symptoms would be, viz., those of inanition, owing to the whole or greater part of the blood-forming fluid derived from the digestion of food 'being perverted from its natural channel. One would not expect that the extravasation of lymph would be quickly fatal, but it is conjectural how far surgical relief could he afiorded, even if the extravasated fluid should become encysted, either behind or within the peritoneal cavity. Rupture after dilatation of the thoracic duct by the pressure of some extrinsic growth, or from some intrinsic cause such as chalky or cheesy concretions in the duct, is a recog- nized contingency. Rupture op the Peritoneum.—The parietal peritoneum, the peritoneum covering the mesentery or omentum, or the visceral peritoneum of any of the solid or hollow organs, may be ruptured without injury to the muscles of the parietes or to the abdominal viscera. Such an accident is rare as the result of a blow or other form of external violence, but it is not so very in- frequent in the case of the peritoneum covering the uterus, or as a result of over-distension of the stomach or intestine. The two chief dangers of rupture of either parietal or visceral layers of the peritoneum are peritonitis and hemorrhage. The sjmiptoms, treatment, and results of contusions of the abdomen followed by intra-peritoneal hemorrhage, have been already de- scribed. We now pass to the consideration of traumatic peritonitis. Traumatic Peritonitis. Causes.—Inflammation of the peritoneum is caused by injury either from without or from within the abdomen. Prom without, the causes are contu- sions, ruptures, and wounds of the abdominal parietes. From within, peri- tonitis may be started by the giving way of hydatid, ovarian, or other cysts, by perforation from disease of the hollow viscera, or by the bursting of an intra-abdominal abscess; tJie penetration of the gut by intestinal worms has also been known as the origin of fatal peritonitis. Though all these causes are in a sense traumatic, the name Traumatic Peritonitis is generally applied only to inflammation started by some blow or other external violence, and then, wliether the abdominal parietes are injured or not, and whether the peritonitis arises directly from the injury, or by extension of inflarnmation from some other structure of the abdominal parietes or contents to the peritoneum. Though our experience of to-day has proved the peritoneum to be tolerant of an amount of interference which not many yeai’S back ivould have been regarded as quite incredilile, still it is even now equally true tliat very slight wounds of the peritoneum may lead to peritonitis, if foreign bodies or septic materials be introduced from with- out, or escape from the viscera within, or if the persons upon whom such wounds are inflicted be in an unhealthy condition. In such cases, however, though the wound is the exciting cause, it is these associated phenomena, and not the wound itself, which are most conducive to the peritonitis. Varieties.—Traumatic peritonitis is always more or less acute, and may be either local or general. Although it is apt to spread rapidly over the greater part or the whole of the membi’ane, it is not unfrequently limited to the immediate neighhorhood of the injury. Commonly the form of inflam- mation is the sthenic; but if it occurs in a feeble, unhealthy subject, it is likely to assume the asthenic or puriform character. If due to the intro-