284 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. a constant result of detaeliment of the retina, of hemorrhages, in or under the retina or the choroid, of patches of choroido-retinitis, of tumors in tlie fundus, and sometimes of foreign bodies, or extravasations of blood in the vitreous. (Idate XXVIII., Fig. 2.) It is not pathognomonic of any one of these lesions. Rarely, it is caused by the embolic plugging of an arterial branch in the retina or choroid. The same defect in the field of vision is sometimes the result of extra-ocular alterations, either in the optic cord or the brain. In such cases, the finding is negative. Lesions of the optic tract, however, are more likely to produce some form of hemiopia or sector defects in the field. In such instances a negative result may be of very positive value in fixing the diagnosis, on the principle of exclusion. The perimeter, or the black board, will enable the surgeon to map out the scotoma. All disorders that lead either to cloudiness of the vitreous, or to profuse intra-ocular liemorrhages, make the illumination of the fundus ditficult if not impossible. If the vitreous is semi-transparent, a red reflex may be had from the bottom of the eye, and perhaps glimpses of the optic papilla and other structures. In that case, numerous floating corpuscles will prob- ably be seen in the liquefied vitreous. Slight movements of the eye under inspection help to identify them. If the hemorrhage has been profuse, and close behind tlie lens, no red reflex can be had from the bottom. The coagu- lum may then be seen by the ophthalmoscope, or by oblique illumination, in its natural red color. Hemorrhages in the e}m are always of serious signifi- cance, occurring in the gravest diseases, or indicating a state of the arteries that make apoplectic efiusions in the brain very probable. Even spontaneous ecchymosis under the conjunctiva, in itself harmless, is of serious import in persons of advanced years. I have often seen it as the precursor of paralysis. The most hopeless form of glaucoma is that which is complicated by intra- ocular hemorrhages. Indeed, the frequent occurrence of ecchymoses in the retina, in connection with an}^ disease, is an alarming symptom. (Plate XXVIII., Fig. 6.) In old people it portends glaucoma. In the young it signifies a fatal hemorrhagic diathesis. Such cases should be closely watched for years, lest they end in destructive glaucoma. Intra-ocular bleeding, alone or complicating local diseases of the eye, may be indicative of organic lesions of the heart or kidneys, of the hemoi-rhagic diathesis, of malignant antemia, or of a degenerated state of the arteries. A rigid inquiry in all these direc- tions should be insisted upon. In rare cases, the phenomenon is unaccount- able. I have now under treatment a temperate and well-preserved man of sixty years, Avho has had the most extensive retinal hemorrhages I have ever seen, first in one eye and then in the other. lie seems to be absolutely sound, but is, of course, liable to an apoplectic attack, of which, however, there is now no premonition whatever. If he escapes that, I shall expect to see glaucomatous manifestations at some future day. In syphilitic choroiditis, the vitreous is often filled with fine opacities, that rise up like clouds of dust when the examined eye is slightly moved. If the turbidity is great, the outlines of the fundus may not be at all visible. At a later period, when this fluid has again cleared, extensive atrophic patches in the choroid may be discovered. In the acute forms of glaucoma, the cornea, aqueous and vitreous are often so hazy, that direct ophthalmoscopic diagnosis is impossible. Snch diagnosis presupposes perfect, or at least partial transparency of the dioptric structures. Opacities in any or all of these, if large and dense, preclude the use of this valuable instrument. Other means of diagnosis must then, especially, be strained into service, as I have already pointed out Avith some detail. A false fear of the brilliant light in ophthalmoscopic examination, prevails among patients. But in intelligent hands there is no danger whatever. It