DISEASES OF THE SKULL, ETC. 143 perhaps of a fixed pain that is worse at night. In time, a small, hard, deeply seated tumor appears at this spot. This enlarges and softens. On being incised, pus escapes, and carious bone can he felt with the probe. Caries of the inner table may give rise to the most misleading symptoms. Its certain recognition is almost impossible. There Avill probably be fixed headache, perhaps some tenderness of the skull over the painful part, and then possibly head symptoms of various kinds—vertigo, convulsions, partial paralysis, delirium, etc. Indeed, the symptoms of caries in this situation are rather those of the brain mischief induced by the disease. If the dura mater be much separated from the bone by pus, there will probably be symptoms of compression. In perforating caries the evidences are a little more pre- cise. After a period marked by some local pain and tenderness, and possibly by some vague cerebral symptoms, a tumor forms externally, which increases, and in time fluctuates. It will then be found that this tumor may be more or less reduced by pressure, and such reduction may cause temporaiy brain symptoms. The size of the mass also may be atfected by respiration. On incision, mucli pus escapes, the discharge of which is rendered more free on forced expiration. The bone being now bared, a perfoi’ation of both tables may be observed. The diagnosis of sgphilitic caries depends to a great extent upon the history of the case, the evidences of tertiary syphilis, and the beneficial efiects of antisyphilitic remedies. Drg sgphilitic caries may be marked by almost a total absence of symptoms. A skull sliowing extensive disease of this nature was exhibited by Dr. Aorrnan Aloore at the Pathological Society of London. The whole vault of the skull was affected, but during life the patient had exhibited no symptoms of bone disease of any kind; thfe only fact noted about the head being that at one part of the scalp there was a little “ eczema.”* In most cases, however, there is pain in the cranial bones that increases at night, tenderness of the skull, some a-dema possibly of the scalp, and in some instances slight evidences of brain disturbance. Of the other varieties of caries no especial notice is required. Prognosis.—The progress of the disease is slow, and may last months and often years, especially when it de})ends upon some constitutional defect. Death may occur from sinqile exhaustion, in cases of extensive caries, but, as a rule, the fatal issue depends upon some intra-cranial mischief, and less frequently upon pyaemia. The depth to which the caries extends, and the de- gree to which it involves the inner table, are thci’eforc matters of more gravity as regards prognosis than is the simple extension of the disease upon the sur- face. The usual intra-cranial lesions are thrombosis of the sinuses of the dura mater (especially apt to occur when the diploe is involved), meningitis of the convexity, and abscess of the brain. In some cases, fatal compression may be caused by a collection of pus between the dura mater and the bone, and in several instances epikq)Sy has followed upon the l)one disease. In caries of tlie mastoid and peti-oTis bones, fatal hemon-hage has occurred from the internal carotid artery, from the internal jugular vein, and from one of the adjacent sinuses, these vessels having been opened iq» by an idcerative process. Treatment.—When the disease depends upon syphilis or struma, the appro- priate constitutional lemedies are rcfqiired. In any case the health should be supported, and freedom, if possible, from all mental excitement advised. Collections of pus should bo immediately evacuated, and free exit given to all discharges. In most cases, and in those especially in which the exter- ' See Lancet, Feb. 5, 1881.