62 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. fluid by the compressing force, which, as demonstrated hy Duret, the blow exerts upon the elastic skull.* Oftentimes there is direct contusion beneath the part of the skull struck, but it rarely exists alone, being accompanied by ecchymoses in other parts of the brain, except when it is a direct residt of the depression of fragments. In many cases the extravasation is directly opposite to the point struck, seemingly tlie result of counter-stroke. Direct contusion and that by counter-stroke are apt to coexist in severe head injuries. 'The upper portions of the brain rarely suffer from contusion, for of thirty- six cases of fracture which started in the vault, but extended into the base, in only live was bruising of the upper surface of the hemispheres detected. (Ilewett.) All portions of the base of the brain are not equally liable to be bruised. The middle lobes are those most frequently contused, the anterior ones less often, while the posterior are still more seldom injured. Of the thirty-five cases referred to by Ilewett, the middle lobes were bruised in twenty-live, fhe anterior in eighteen, and the posterioi- in only four. In twelve of these cases, where the injury was exceptionally severe, both the anterior and middle lobes were contused. As to the reasons for this pre- ponderance of injury in one part more than in others, I cannot accept Sir P. llewett’s and Sir B. Brodie’s explanations, as they seem to me not sustained by anatomical considerations. In the macerated skull there are, indeed, a number of “ irregular and angular projections,” but in the fresh skull, I deny that they exist. In the section on fractures of the cranial base, I have tried to render these points clear, and to explain why the middle and anterior lobes are so commoidy contused. Symptoms and Diagnosis of Cerebral Contusion.—These are so uncertain as to render it exceedingly doubtful whether these lesions have any character- istic symptoms of their own. In the absence of fracture—proliable or ascer- tained—after the first symptoms of shock have passed off, if there be pro- nounced unconsciousness, or marked somnolency, with the absence of stertor, or if there be extreme agitation and restlessness, it is exceedingly probable that contusion is present. If there be rigid contraction of one or more of the limbs, or of isolated groups of muscles, especially those of the fingers, the probability amounts almost to certainty. How, if to these Ave have added marked isolated palsies, I think that ive are justified in assuming fhe exist- ence of contusion, provided that irritating lesions of the dura mater can be excluded^. These, as I have already said, are more apt to occur on the side of injury—supposing this to have been produced by a circumscribed applica- tion of force—and never produce paralysis. Slight effusions of lilood into the arachnoid sac are usually attended by no symptoms. Even when blood is effused in larger quantities, the symptoms are commonly those of compression of the brain-substance, not of irritation, and where both sets of symptoms coexist, I consider those of irritation to be due to concomitant brain-contusion. In mild cases of contusion, partial contraction of one pupil, partial paralysis of an eyelid, impaired vision, thick speech, slight spasmodic twitching of the facial muscles, one or all, have been noted. IJnless there is evidence to the contrary, if after the application of severe diffused force to the skull, marked brain-symptoms-—other than hemiplegia—persist after the shock has passed off', cerebral contusion and laceration will in most instances be found after death. I hesitate to thus differ from such a distinguished authority as Sir Prescott Hewett, recognizing, as I do, the fact that severe brain-bruising may exist without presenting any symptoms until sevei'al days after the injury, or indeed that they may be altogether wanting. But if, because the diag- nosis is difficult, and because mistakes must sometimes occur when a positive * See Duret’s experiments, p. 53, supra.