INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 176 of the ciliary muscle. This muscle, acting from the sclero-corneal junction, draws the choroid forwards and renders it tense, moving the ciliary processes likewise forwards, and a little towards the axis of vision. Thus the sus- pensory ligament is relaxed, and the anterior surface of the lens, which is Fig. 850. The ciliary muscle, a. Cornea : h. Limhus cornefc ; c. Sclerotic: d. Iris : e. Space of Fontana ; /. Meridional portion of ciliary muscle ; g, Kadial portion of the same ; li. Annular muscle of Muller; i. Anterior tendon of ciliary muscle ; Ic. Posterior tendon of meridional portion of same. (After Iwanoffand Arnold.) compressed in the quiescent state of the muscle, is allowed to grow more con- vex, in response to its natural elasticity. It is thus that the eye is accommo- dated for near vision, by an active process, producing relaxation. The active, muscular curtain, which regulates the amount of light admitted to the eye, the iris., is fastened at its periphery by fibres from the ligamentum annulare of the ciliary muscle, by bloodvessels passing directly between it and the choroid, and by the ligamentum peetinatum—hands of elastic fibres thrown over from the membrane of Descemet to the iris, at the outer mar- gin of the anterior chamber. The spaces between these traheculie, and con- necting with the aqueous chamber, allowing perhajis free filtration of the intraocular fluids, are now called Fontana’s spaces. In the surgical pathology of the eye, the ciliary region, including the outer rim of the anterior chamber, plays a very important part. The iris is a membranous septum, circular in form, passing across the eye close in front of the lens, from its attachment, 1 mm. behind the clear margin of the cornea, and pierced in its centre by the pupil. Its tissue is delicate, easily torn, and very sensitive, and both surfaces are bathed with the aqueous humor, in which it moves with perfect freedom. In its stroma are two antagonistic sets of muscular fibres. One set is arranged in a circular band around the pupil, on the posterior surface, and about 1 mm. wide, supplied with motor force by filaments from the third nerve. The other muscle passes from the entire periphery of the iris, in converging directions, to the sphincter pupillie, with