ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 1037 that a correct diagnosis is based upon wrong premises ; and too groat reliance on tlie supposed nature of a peri-uterine swelling, may possibly lead the sur- geon astray. The tubal SAvellings have to be diagnosed from the swellings of pelvic peritonitis, whether tliese are encysted collections of pus, or masses of viscei’a matted together. A small ovarian or broad-ligament cyst—especially if fixed by adhesions to the pelvis—or a hydatid cyst in the pelvis, might possibly give rise to confusion, lint the more rounded outline of the former, especially as felt through the rectmn, and the painlessness of the latter, will assist the diagnosis ; whilst either ovarian or hydatid cysts will cause more mechanical interference with the bladder and rectum than do tubal distensions. The examination of the fluid withdrawn by the aspirator will clear up the diagnosis as regards the presence of a hydatid, fletween tubal swelling and enlargement of the ovaries from inflammation or abscess, a diag- nosis is not possible with our present knowledge. Aor is it of any great moment that this is so, fjecause the same pathological changes are found, and the same operative treatment is required, in each class of cases. To attempt a diagnosis between hsemafo-salpinx, hydro-sal}>inx, and pyo-salpinx, theclinical history and progress of the case must be closely studied. INlr. Tait says that tlie most common of the varieties of this disease is liydro-salpinx, and the rarest lifernato-.salpinx. Prognosis.—Utdess the contents of the Fallopian tubes be removed by the surgeon, or discharged s])ontaneously through the uterus, or into some coil of adherent intestine, a fatal result must sooner or later occur fi'om pyo-sal- pinx. Possibly in hydro-salpinx rupture into the peritoneum may occur, and a cure be effected in this way. Probaldy in some cases of hydi’o-saljunx and pyo-salpinx there arc periodic discharges through the uterus during the cata- menial relaxation of that organ, as Dr. James R. Chadwick, of Boston, supposes. If pus escape into the peritoneal cavity, fatal collapse or acute pei’i- toiiitis will be the end. In other cases, death is brought about slowly by ex- haustion from repeated attacks of pelvic peritonitis, and the interference with the functions of important organs by adhesions and contractions of pelvic structures; by the burrowing of pus, the formation of visceral hstulpe, and the septic absorption of decomposing pus and gases contained within the abscesses. Lawson Tait writes:— In its acute stage, infainmation of the tubes is a most formidable disease, and so rapidly ends in general peritonitis that we can hardly recognize the necessity for inter- fering before it is too late to do anything. I have seen several fatal cases of peritonitis which undoubtedly had their origin from inflammation of the Fallo[)ian tubes, and which ought to have been treated by abdominal section. . . . Pyo-sali)inx is, however, a more chronic condition. . . . Probably they all arise in some acute intlammation, wliicli occludes botli openings of the tubes, and converts one or both tubes, generally both, into chronic abscesses ; yet in the last case I have narrated, there was in the history no incident of an acute kind. Dr. S. Wilks has met with two cases where pyo-salpinx caused general pyajmia, one case proving fatal from an abscess in the liver, tlie other from an abscess in the brain.^ Jreatmevf.—Owing, pei’liit])S, in part to the im]icrfectiou of diagnosis, but ebiedy to the lact that until Itttely no serious thought was given to their surgictil treatment, these cases have scarcely heen sulmiitted to any but e.x- pectant and ameliorating remedies. Ihiucturo per vaginam for their evacua- tion has been advised, but much uncertainty as to Avhat the nature of the swelling to be tajiped really was, has generally lieeu mingled with the advice. Aloreover, tajijiing has not very often been followed by permanent I'elief. * Op. cit., p. (j!L