MORBID GROWTHS OF THE LARYNX. 733 bach* introduces a knife through the lamina intermedia of the thyroid cartilage, and manipulates it under guidance of the laryngoscopic mirror. Crushing compression of a growth is practised in cases which resist evulsion with forceps, or in which it becomes apparent that too much force would be requisite to tear the growth away. The object is to produce mortification, and thus favor subsequent detachment by suppurative processes. Crushing is practised with strong forceps similar to those used tor evulsion. JEvidsion, or tearing the growth away bodily, is the method most frequently applicable. Pedunculated growths are readily torn away; and sessile growths likewise can often be torn away in mass. Soft growths of large size are usually torn away in fragments, two or three being removed at a sitting. Many sittings are often requisite to free the larynx from extensive growths. These operations are performed with forceps—simple, complex, eanulated, rigid, and elastic. Many operators have devised forceps to meet their special preferences; but, as with most surgical implements, the simplest are the best. The forceps devised by Mackenzie, of London (Fig. 1087), certainly fill the greatest number of indications, and are, perhaps, the most useful of the entire Fig. 1087. Mackenzie's laryngeal forceps. (Mackenzie.) A. Lateral toothed forceps. B. Autero-posterior cutting forceps. C. Spoon-blade. D. Punch-blade. class. Too much foi’ce should not be exercised in evulsion ; a growth may be so firmly attached that the whole larynx is lifted with it. binder such cir- cumstances cutting forceps should be substituted. Wire-snares, and even ecraseurs, have been used to remove growths by cutting and by evulsion, but their manipulation is so diflicult and uncertain that they are of questionable value. Evulsion with the finger or finger-nail iS occasionally practicable with soft growths high up, especially in children. Evulsion is also practicable by passing a sponge into the larynx and twirling it around and around, rather roughly. Although chietly applicable to soft growtlis, Yoltolini, of Breslau, who is the originator and chief advocate of this procedure, has reported suc- cesses obtained by it with fibromata and myxomata, pedunculated and sessile.^ In the treatment of growths of hard consistence, the manipulations are repeated at intervals of from four to eight days, until the growth becomes mortified and drops off. Yoltolini has also recently devised a fork for the transfixion and excision of laryngeal growths. Although laryngosco[)y lias given the great impetus to removals of growths ' Berlin, klin. Wocli., No. 5, 1880. 2 Monatsschrift f'nr Ohreiilieilkunde, 3 November, 1878.