DISEASES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. 387 secretions poured out beneath them and prevented from escaping, putrefactive changes set in, the matter thus imprisoned decomposes, and fetor is estal)- lished. The irritation of the mucous membrane caused by the presence of these pent-up purulent discharges—for they rajiidly change from muco-puru- lent to purulent—excites further discharge, and thus constantly aggravates the disease.^ The spnpforas ai’e mainly if not whollj" due to the presence of the large, inspissated crusts of mucus in the nasal passages, with their resultant obstruction to the respiratory current, and to their decomposition, which gives rise to the fetid and offensive odor which is the main cbaracteristic of the disease. Quantities of inspissated muco-pus mixed with Idood, together with more or less fluid secretion of a muco-purulent character, are dis- charged daily. Pain and irritability of the mucous memlirane are also com- plained of. Attacks of epistaxis (due to the erosions of the membrane caused by the mechanical irritation produced Ijy the bard crusts of mucus), are not infrequent. In the later stages, when atrophy has taken ])laee, there is less obstruction, and the sense of smell is either more markedly interfered with or probably abolishe<l. When the A^ault of the pharynx is involved, the accumulations of tlie hard secretions at this point, give rise to pain, dis- comfort, and the sensation of a foreign body lieing present. Phari/ngitis sicca is usually associated with the latter condition, and symptoms referable to tills locality are manifested. Phinoscopic examination will seldom fail to show appearances cbaracteristic of the disease; in its early stages, a dry and glazed mucous membrane, and as it progresses, constant increase in the crust-accumulation and change in the character of the diminished secretion, until the stage of atn'iph}' is reached, when the nasal qiassage will be seen to be ivide and roomy. Curiously enough, the mucous membrane of both the nares and pharynx, when cleansed of its overlying, thick and discolored mucous accumulations, presents a fairly healthy appearance. Treatment.—Peyond question, atrophic nasal catarrh is an intractable affection ; that it not infrequently baffles all, even persistent, efforts for its cure, clinical experience shows. INIucli, however, may be done by regular and faitliful treatment, to mitigate at least the most offensive of its charac- teristics, and ultimate cure need not be despaired of if the case be seen in its earlier stages. The first and most important indication is the thorough, regular, and care- ful removal of all crusts and inspissated secretions from the nasal passages and vault of the q)harynx. This process, T repeat, ]uust be regularly and persistently repeated at suitable, prol)ably daily, intervals. Instrumental aid, such as that of the forceps, prol)e, In-ush, and the like, may occasionally lie required, especially in the later stages, to insure thoroughness. The nasal spray-aY»paratus, used witli a cleansing and disinfectant solution (page 367), may serve the purpose of cleanliness when once it has been estalilislied by other means. AVhen more powerful measures are required, the anterior or posterior nasal syringe must be employed. In the earlier stages, remedies are suitable wliich from their nature tend to restore the normal secreting power of the mucous membrane, through stimulation of its glandular appa- ratus, probably liy their irritant effect. Certain of them may be applied in solution, by means of the compressed-air spray, and others in powder. Bosworth recommends especially ;— B Pulv. sangninariai, R Pulv. galanga', Pulv. myrriuc, aa 5j 5 Pulv. aniyli, aa 3j. M. Lycopodii, 3'j- 1^1 • ' See also the section on Ozsena.