1169 UMBILICAL HERNIA. Radical Cure of Umbilical Hernia.—In congenital cases, properly treated, a radical cure by the use of truss-pressure may be confidently looked for. In early infancy, tJie condition of the navel should be carefully examined. If a tendency to swelling at the root of the funis be observeil at birth, when the infant cries and struggles, the stump of the navel-string should he pressed lirmly between the finger and thumb, and a thick silk ligature, or ;i very narrow piece of tape, should he tied firmly around it at the level of tin*, skin, and kept on until it ulcerates through, so as to produce adhesion of the persistent vagina funiculi umhilicalis. Afterwards the penny-piece should he applied, and if the parts get excoriated by the plastei', an India- rubber belt, with a pocket to receive the coin, or a fiat piece of lead, oppo- site the rupture, is the best application. If this be carefully attended to, the weak place will be closed before the age of puljerty. If it persist be- yond this, or if it prove unmanageable at an earlier period, as is often tlie case among the children of the poor, a subcutaneous operation by wii'e may properly be had recourse to. Subcutaneous Operation by Wire.—For this proceeding, a copper wire silvered, thin enough to be pliant, and made warm and pliable b}’ brisk rulfiiing, with a hook at each end ; a handled needle, with a medium curve, and stout and sharp enough to pierce the very tough structures concerned (or a stout, strong, common suture needle (see Fig. 1160 (/), in default of this), are needed. A spoon-shaped director (see Fig. 1160 6, c,), to guide the needle, will be found Fig. 1150. Instruments used iu operation for umbilical hernia. also serviceable to guard the bowel from possible injuiy. The child being laid upon its back, and thoroughly under the effect of an anaisthetic, any pi'o- trusion should be carefully returned into the alidomen, and the director, well oiled, should then be pressed into the hernial opening, and its edge pushed a little upward, and laterally, well under the tendinous margin of the umbilical ring. Then, its handle being firmly depressed and steadily held by an assist- ant, the needle should be passed through the invaginated skin, the tendinous a[toneurosis, and the skin at the side of the navel, a little above the centre, the latter being drawn up liefore the needle pierces it liy traction with the fore-finger (see Fig. 1151). If a handled needle is usetl, one hook of the wire shoidd now lie attached and drawn through. Then the director should be pushed well downwards and laterally, and the needle slioidd be passed again through the hernial coverings and through the aponeurosis, so as to take a good hold, when its point should be directed so as to come through the same aperture in the skin as before (see Fig. 1162), a manoeuvre wbicli is aided by drawing the skin down a little with the point of the finger. The other end- hook of the wire is then to lie attached and drawn tlirough, so as to leave a loop of wire projecting through the skin-puncture. The same manoeuvres are next to be effected on the opposite side of the hernial opening, the needle being passed through the same punctures in the hernial covering, and the VOL. V.—74