DISEASES OF THE SCALP. 127 more urgent inflammatory symptoms have subsided. If the cyst be very large, it may be necessary to remove some of the redundant skin. If, for any reason, a portion of the cyst-wall should be left behind after attempted ex- cision, the epithelial surface should be well rubbed with solid nitrate of silver to destroy the secreting elements, and the wound should be dressed for a while from the bottom. Considering tlie frecpiency of the operation of exci- sion, and the little after-attention which the wound generally receives, it is a proceeding no more frequently followed by ill consequences than the inflic- tion of any other simple wound. Follicular or Fangating Ulcer.—This term is given to an ulcer sometimes formed by the breaking down of one of these sebaceous cysts. The skin over the cyst usually gives way in several places, so that many discharging holes are formed, and the destructive process proceeds until a large ulcer is formed with these characters; its edge is raised, everted, rugged, prominent, and very irregular; its base is occupied by a foul, fungating mass; it is of consid- eralde depth ; and it spreads by advancement of the ulcerative action. The fungous mass represents the remains of the sebaceous contents mixed with a crowd of very exuberant granulations that spring from the lining membrane of the cyst, now irritated by the presence of too much elfete matter. The sebaceo-us matter does not itself actually become vascularized, as some less recent authors have urged, but the persistent irritation produced by the morbid changes in the exposed cyst-wall perpetuates the ulcerative process, and leads to a spreading of the sore. Cock gives some excellent drawings of this condition.^ This peculiar ulcerative process appears to he most apt to attect cysts of some standing, and especially those occurring in old persons, the disease being rarely met with before tifty. Considering the usual age of the patients, and the general features of the ulcer, it will be seen that this might readily be taken for epithelioma.^ -Any ditliculties on this point may, however, he cleared up by noticing in the non-malignant ulcer the history of the case, the presence possibly of unaltered sebaceous matter, the absence of a hard inliltration of the peri[)hcry, as in epithelioma, the fact that the disease progresses with little bleeding and less pain, while the health remains good, aiurthe glands are unaflected. It must be remendiered, however, that such ulcers as these may take on a genuine epitheliomatous action.^ Some of the reported cases are cases rather of fungating sarcoma of the scalp.^ In regard to treatment., the surface of the ulcer having been well cleaned by a poul- tice, the remaining portion of the cyst may be excised. The operation is, however, often tedious and bloody, and a better plan, therefore, is to apply the actual cautery lightly, hut thoroughly, to the whole remaining surface of the cyst, when a slough separates, and the ulcer generally heals kindly. Horns.—These strange excrescences are developed from the interior of a sebaceous cyst that has been opened up, either by rupture, or, more usually, by inflammation. They have the a])pcarance, and almost the density, of actual liorn, and ai'C formed of lieaped-up sebaceous matter that has become <lry and indurated. Fresh matter is constantly being formed at the base of the excrescence, and so it increases in length and bulk. Sir Erasmus Wilson has given a full account of these growths.® Out of 90 collected cases, 44 were in females and 39 in males, the sex of the remainder being unknown; in ' A few Remarks on a Peculiar Follicular Disease. Guy’s IIosp. Rei^orts, 2d s. vol. viii. p. rA. 1853. 2 See a celeljrated case of M. Cliassaignac’s, in Bull, de la Soc. de Chir., tomes i. et ii. ^ See case reported Ly Dr. P6an, Legons de Clinique Cliirurg., p. 532. 1876. Goodhart, Follicular Disease of the Scalp. Guy’s Hosp. Reports, 3d s. vol. xviii. p. 221. 1873. ^ Transactions of the Royal Medical and Cliirurgical Society, vol. xxvii. 1843.