INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 738 operation ; and one, operated on by Bottini, February 6,1875, is alive nearl}’ ten years after the operation.^ Correspondence instituted for the purpose has failed to elicit the present state of Caselli’s patient.^ Taking for granted tliat death was imminent in these live cases, we find considerable prolongation of life in all of them, and a remarkable prolongation in two. These statistics, therefore, indicate that the operation of excision of the larynx deserves the serious consideration of the surgeon in otherwise hopeless cases of sarcoma. Treatment.—Radical treatment must be surgical. When the growth is small and readily accessible in all its parts, operative procedures may be limited to the region diseased. Cures by intra-laryngeal operation have been reported by I'uerck, Gottstein, Navratil, and Mackenzie,^ but the infil- trating character of the growth, so strongly insisted on by Mr. Butlin, ren- ders it questionable whether such measures should be relied upon, and ren- ders it imperative that the patients should be subsequently examined from time to time, to ascertain whether apparent cures have been permanent. When the growth occupies a peculiarly favorable position upon the posterior Avail of the larynx (Fig. 1090), it is accessible through the mouth ; and Avhen Fig. 1090. A Sarcoma growing from the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage. (Mackenzie.) A, in situ ; B, after removal. it occupies the epiglottis, that structure may be removed—sometimes through the mouth, and sometimes by the operation described as sub-hyoidean pha- ryngotoniy. When the interior of the larynx is the seat of the disease, thyroid laryngotomy, or section of the thyroid cartilage, or perhaps section of the entire larynx, will be required to afford proper access for efficient re- moval. When such exposure of the parts is insufficient for thorough eradi- cation of the diseased tissues, the question of partial or complete extirpation of the larynx may be entertained; for the results of these operations for sarcoma, as exhibited in the tables hereafter given, are far more satisfactory than when they are undertaken for carcinoma. II. Carcinoma.—Carcinoma is much more frequent than sarcoma; more frequent, perhaps, than is generally recognized. Most frequently a primary disease,^ and limited to the larynx, it occurs also in extension from disease in contiguous organs—the tongue, oesophagus, pharynx, or palate, in one direc- tion, and tlie thyroid gland® in the other. Squamous-celled carcinoma occa- ' Private letter from Prof. F. Massei, dated October 7, 1884. It must be noted, in connection witli tliis case, tliat Margary (Arcb. Ital. di Lariugologia, ji. 132. 1882), states tliat the growth was a granuloma, and not malignant. A private com- munication to myself, from another Italian physician of authority, reiterates this opinion. ^ Op. cit., p. S.*!!, vol. i. ■■ Ziemssen, Handbuch der speoiellen Pathologie, u. s. w. Bd. iv. H. 1. 1875. ® Eppinger (Klebs, op. cit., Bd. ii. Abth. 1, S. 213).