130 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OP THE HEAD. taneous ; 2, tlie subcutaneous; 3, the mixed. 1. The cutaneous augeiomata are composed of capillary vessels arranged in an intricate plexus, and considerably altered in structure. These form the simplest kind of plexiform augeiomata, and appear as bright-red or claret spots upon the skin, their surface being com- monly a little raised and granular. 2. These tumors are situated in the sub- cutaneous tissues, although they may extend beyond them. They are venous in structure, as a rule, the vessels being arranged in a plexus (plexiform an- geioma), or after the manner of erectile tissue (cavernous angeioma, erectile tumor); tliey form distinct tumors, covered -with purplish and thinned integu- ment, are smooth, somewhat lobulated, doughy, and elastic, and are capable of being more or less emptied on pressure. They often increase also on violent respiratory efforts. If the tissue has much of the arterial element, the mass ma}" feelily pulsate, but such a growth would more aptly be considered with cirsoid aneurism. 3. The mixed form is a complication of the two preceding forms, the skin being more or less involved. The tumors may ulcerate and give rise to severe hemorrhage. Treatment.—If the tumor be cpxite stationary and small, and cause no gross disfigurement, the advisability of operation may be questioned. With regard to tlie many different modes of treating iiievus I will say nothing, but will refer merely to those measures tliat appear most applicable in the scalp. Pressure with a disk of lead or a small coin, secured by an elastic band, has answered well in some small inevi that involved the tissues to no great depth.* It may at least be tried. AYith regard to operative measures, I would urge that most naavi of the scalp can be well treated either by the actual cautery or the simple ligature, with in a few cases a recourse to excision. Hievi up to tlie size of a shilling can, as a rule, be well treated by a light application of the thermo-cautery, if quite cutaneous, and by a more prolonged application when they extend beyond the skin. This treatment is at the time more painful than that by nitric acid (wliich, hoivever, is only applicable to superficial growths), but the pain passes off* much sooner, and the result is much more certain, one application being in the great majority of cases all that is required. I have used the thermo-cautery in a very large number of cases, and without a single bad result. If one has to deal with a very ex- tensive superficial mevus, involving only the skin, the same method may be adopted, and it is then better to treat portions only of the diseased area at a time, commencing at the periphery. Large venous nsevi and cavernous tumors of the width of a shilling and larger can be well treated by the simple ligature. This method is especially suited to prominent tumors covered with thin and diseased integument. I have found the following mode of using the ligature most efficacious. The mass is ligated in the usual way in two segments, a Iiarelip jiin having been passed through its base, and the threads at right angles to the pin. It is important to lightly incise the skin at the base of the growth, in the line that will be followed by the ligature. This lessens the amount of pain and tlie duration of the strangulating process, and in young children much diminishes the liability to convulsions. The pin is not removed. In four days the whole of the ligatured mass should be sliced off* level with the surrounding skin, by passing the knife beneath the harelip pin ; some bleeding follows, which is immediately checked by light pressure with cotton-wool. The advantages of this subsequent excision are these: The duration of the treatment is very greatly diminished, the risks of ill effects much lessened, and a much cleaner and finer scar is produced. If the skin over the mass be sound, ligation will hardly be so applicalile, owing ' See Lancet, vol. ii., 1867, article on Naevi, by Mr. Thomas Smith; and Surgical Diseases of Children, by Mr. Cooper Forster, p. 223. London, I860.