INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1044 not SO in hydatid of tlie liver, even when the cyst is of enormous size. If ascites and hydatid of the liver coexist, the detection of the latter may he (|uite impossible until the ascitic fluid is removed. Finall}-, the hydatid character of a tumor will be at once made certain by an examination of the fluid witlidrawn by the as])irator. Pivgnosis and Modes of Termination.—Hydatid tumor of the liver may last for 3’ears without causing trouble, or without its presence being detected until after death. Its existence is compatible with perfectl}' good health ; but after it has once attained a size large enough to be recognized, or to give rise to S3’mptoms, if it be not cured by treatment it will go on growing, tliough pos- sibly veiy slowl3p until it bursts or causes death b}^ the effects of its pressure. I have the notes of several such cases (detected onl}" after death) from the post-mortem registers of the Middlesex Hospital, in which no indication of the Ipydatids’ presence existed during life ; none of these C3’sts, however, were larger than an orange or cricket-hall. Murchison taught that spontaneous cui-e was “conflned for the most part to tumors of so small a size that the}' are not recognized during life;” and the notes now before me of cases taken from the Middlesex Hospital records, since the time when Murchison was one of the physicians of that hospital, entirely corroborate this statement. 1>3' its pressure, tlie tumor may excite a fatal pleuris}', pneumonia, or peri- tonitis ; % its ]-npture, various consequences follow, dependent upon the direction in which it bursts. If into the pleura, acute pleuris}' and death are the almost invariable results; and this is the commonest direction, and on the right side only, rarel}’ on the left, is the pleural sac invaded. dVhen the lung becomes adherent to the diaphragm prior to the giving wa}' of the tumor, the contents may escape into the bronchial tubes and be expectorated, and the i)atient may recover; on the other hand, he ma}^ die from gangrenous imeumonia, exhaustion, or p}’?cmia. Rupture into the pericardium is alwa3’s, and rupture into the peritoneum nearly alwa}’s fatal. Bright* mentions a case which is possibly one of recovery after rupture into the perito- neum, and Ogle, one of recovery after rupture into the omentum.^ Rupture of the c}^st into, after adliesion with, the stomach or intestine, is the most favorable termination, but it is not veiy common ; in these cases the lydatids are sldwl}^ vomited or passed yer aniim. Death ma}', however, occur from exhaustion, peritonitis, hemorrhage from the sac, or multiple hepatic abscess.^ The c}'st, after having formed adhesions with the parietes, mav' ulcerate and discharge externally at the umbilicus, or in some other part of the abdomen, or in one of the lower intercostal spaces. Though such eases do not com- monl}' end in recoveiy, several are on record as having done well; in others the patients have died from peritonitis, hemoriljage from the sac, or pro- longed suppuration from its walls. It is not very uncommon for a lydatid C}'st to open into the bile-ducts'* or gall-bladder, and thus to occasion obstruc- tion of the bile, and, as a consequence, jaundice and biliaiy colic. The entrance of bile into the cyst kills the parasite, and either leads to the withering up of the contents and spontaneous cure of the tumor, or lights up fatal inflammation and su})puration in its walls. In veiy exceptional cases such a cyst has opened into the vena cava, and caused instant death ly im- paction of some of its contents in the pulmonaiy arteiy. Death ma}’ be caused by the accidental rupture of a cyst within its bed. I have had such a case in my own practice :— ^ Oj). cit., New Syd. Soc. ed., p. 47. 2 Trans. I’atli. Soc. Lond.,vol. xi. p. 29.7. 3 Dr. Owen Rees, Med. Times and (Tazette, June 20, 1857. 1 Trans. I’atli. Soc. Lond., vol. xvi. p. IGO, and vol. xix. p. 256.