INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 790 poisonous influence of venous blood wLicb, as such, has already made one complete circuit through the systemic capillaries, after arterialization had ceased. On the contraction of the arterioles, checking, as with compressors, the progress of the blood into the capillaries of the lungs, the pulmonic blood- pressure becomes augmented, and the right side of the heart—the auricle especially—becomes over-distended; while the left auricle, relieved of pre- vious distension by a similar though less forcible action of the systemic arte- rioles, becomes quite flaccid; the two ventricles being, at the same time, in corresponding relative positions. In connection with this subject. Dr. John- son quotes from Harvey’s Second Disquisition on the Circulation of the Blood, as follows:—* “ I have several times opened the breast and pericardium of a man within two hours after his execution by hanging, and before the color had totally left the face, and in presence of many witnesses, have demonstrated the right auricle of the heart and the lungs distended with blood ; the auricle in particular of the size of a large man’s fist, and so full of blood that it looked as if it would burst. This distension, however, had disappeared next day, the body having stiffened and become cold, and the blood having made its escape through various channels.” In support of this fact, denied by some recent writers on apnoea, additional evidence is given from a similar autopsy, and from a number of experiments upon animals. From this account, it would appear that at the moment of death by apnoea, the left side of the heart is not full of blood, while the right side is greatly distended owing to the blocking of the blood in the pulmonic arterioles; and that the circulation is arrested in this condition. The pulmonaiy artei-y is full, and can receive no more blood from the distended right ventricle ; the right ventricle is full, and can receive no more blood from its auricle; and the auricle remains filled in over-distension. In some experiments on animals instituted for me by Dr. Solomon Solis- Cohen and Dr. Brubaker, in the physiological laboratory of Jeflerson Medi- cal College, it was found, after death by tying the trachea, that the right side of the heart was enormously distended in both chambers, while the left side contained blood, but was not full in either chamber. The pulmonary artery, the vense cavie, and the portal vein Avere also markedly distended, and there appeared to be general engorgement of the venous system. The lungs were not collapsed at death, for the air rushed out of the trachea ivhen the ligature was cut; but on dissection, collapse was evident. At the moment of opening the chest, the lungs were aneemic throughout, and the upper portion of both lungs, and their anterior and lateral peripheries, remained exsanguine; but there very soon appeared dift’use congestion at the base and the dependent portions posteriorly. Animals submitted to death by drowning presented little difference as far as the circulatory system Avas concerned, except that the left heart Avas quite full, cardiac action having ceased in diastole; but the lungs were collapsed, and exhibited intense congestion, more marked at the base and in the central portions, the borders being somcAA'liat anremic. The lungs did not appear to contain Avater. Symi)toms.—The symptoms of impending apnoea vary Avithin extreme limits, according as it is slow or rapid in disease, or sudden and overAvhelm- ing in injury. The symptoms as presented in occlusion of the air-passage by oedema, by a foreign body, by false membrane, by spasm, and by paralysis, have already been described.^ ' Works, etc., transl. liy Willis, p. 127. London, Sydenham Society, 1847. ^ See pages 651, 670, 704, 705, 779, and 781, supra.