INJURIES ANI) DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 976 from his sufferings, and in prolonging life for some claj’s ; hut the iiost-mortem examination proved that my diagnosis was wrong. The ohstruction was due to the adhesion together of some coils of small intestine, between one of which and the ascending colon just below the creeum a free communication existed, so tliat after the operation the contents of the small intestine mixed with those of the caecum and colon, and were drained away through the operation wound. Treatment.—Cleaidiness, the recumbent posture, and some flat, ecpiahle com- pression upon the parietes over and beyond the fistula, should be employed. I have tried paring the edges and bringing them in contact with hare-lip pins and sutures, and also the application of caustics, hut without success; and yet, after failure with these methods, very great improvement has followed the enforcement of the supine position, with compression, and the proper selec- tion of food. Slieet lead, or gutta-percha, or a large tiat air-pad attached to the centre of an abdominal belt, when the tistula is in the front of the abdomen, will be found useful for exercising pressure. Mensel, of Gotha, has cured two cases of intractable intestinal fistula Ijy abdominal incision, followed by suture of the fistulous opening of the intestine, after dissecting it away from the edges of the parietal opening. Catgut sutures were employed for the closure of the bowel, the bowel was dropped hack into the abdominal cavity, and the external incision was closed in the usual way. Convalescence was complete in one case in ten days, and in the other in fourteen days.^ The food should he light and easily digested, and should consist of soft animal and farinace- ous solids; for licpuds are much more apt to pass readily through the fistula, and vegetable substances are not readily absorbed. Constipation should he avoided. By keeping on Ids back, the patient aids the action of gravity to deter the intestinal contents from entering tlie fistula. The excoriation and eczematous inflammation produced by the acridity of the discharges are best prevented by using zinc or spermaceti ointment, on lint placed widely around the opening. Sulphate of iron lotion (100 grains to the pint of distilled water) is sometimes very beneficial, hut when there is much smarting or irri- tation, warm lead lotion is the best application. False Anus ; commonly called Artificial Anus. The term “ artificial anus,” as nearl}' all writers on the subject have pointed out, is ill adapted for those varieties of the disease which are not the designed residt of surgical operation. I7or ai-e “abnormal anus,” suggested by Dupuy- tren, nor “ anus contre nature,” used by Jobert, any hettei’, for the reason tliat the genuine “ artificial” anus of surgery is equally “ abnormal” and “ unnatu- ral” with the rest. Many French writers have superseded the word “ artifi- cial,” as ap]ilied to cases not the result of operation, by the word “preternatu- ral,” hut as this implies a something which is strange and unheard of, it is not suitalde; whilst the term “ accidental,”^ also employed by Jobert, is only suitable to cases wliich result from external violence. I have, therefore, ]troposed the word “false,” and shall liere employ the expression “false anus” for all abnormal external communications with the bowel which have not been designedly established by the surgeon, and which are too large to be included under the term “fecal fistula.” “Aberrant” would he a name well adapted for such openings, for the word implies a deviation from the right ' Lond. Med. Record, May, 1883, p. 186. * In his excellent work on Surgical Diseases of the Intestinal Canal, Jobert speaks of two forms of “ anus contre nature;” 1. The accidental, which follows gangrened hernia and intestinal lesions, and 2. The original, which is due to some vice of development.