INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1034 I’iition. Further information is however required to render their diagnosis more certain and more generally understood. Ihemato-salpinx not unfrequently complicates the distension of the uterus from retained menstrual Huid, in cases of atresia or ohstruction of the uterus, vagina, or vulva. The Fallopian tubes, thus distended, may either rupture or lead to the' escape of blood into the peritoneal cavity. Simple hypersemia of the tube, when part of a general congestion of the sexual organs, may cause either hiemato-salpinx, or the effusion of more or less blood into the peritoneum. Hydro-salpinx and pyo-salpinx are met with as results of the same causes, all of which excite either catarrhal or suppurative inflammation in the Fallopian tube. The inflammation spreads along the tube to its fimbriated end, and by causing localized pelvic })eritonitis, and adhesion of the fimbria? to the ovary or to the neighboring structures, results in the closure of the distal end of the tube. As the uterine extremit}^ becomes* occluded by the same inflammatory process, the tube is thus shut up, and then becomes dis- tended with the secretion poured forth from its lining membrane. It is usually towards the distal or trumpet-shaped end that the chief distension occurs. Occasionally, instead of a simple, elongated, sac-like swelling, several small sacculated swellings form, and the tube then looks more like a loculated ])Ouch. The mucous membrane of the tube is frequently discolored, and of a blackish-blue, slate, or purple tint. Its ciliated epithelium is desquamated, and the surface assumes a villous condition. The contents of the distended tube may be either serum, sero-pus, muco- }(us, or pus. As the dilatation increases and the mucous membrane undergoes marked changes, the contents may be cither thin, wateiw, and colorless— giving the tube, as Rokitansky describes it, “ the appearance of a transparent, sero-lilu’ous bladder;” or variously colored—of any shade between green, yellow, red, brown, and inky-black—and syru})y, or more or less thick and flocculent. The accompanying particulars of all the cases whicli have been observed in the post-mortem room of the Middlesex Hospital during the last two or three years, have been supplied to me by my colleague Dr. Fowler. (See Table.) They bring out several important points connected with these ])athological changes. The degree of distension varies, but it often attains the size of a goose’s egg or larger. The result of these changes in the tube is nearly always to cause matting together of the fimbriated end of the tube, the ovary, intestines, uterus, and })elvic wall. These adhesions are often much contracted and puckered, and, as Bernutz has very fully pointed out and illustrated by numerous cases, other lesions of the q»elvic peritoneum are excited by the tubular disease. In some cases, a true purulent cyst is formed by the pelvic peritoneum ; in others, a small muco-purident cyst hetween the ovary and the tube is met with in the midst (fl‘ numerous adhesions. Bernutz thiidcs that the peritonitis is sometimes excited by simple contiguity, and sometimes by the escape of morbid secretions from the tubes into the pelvic cavity. lie argues too, with much force and at great length, to prove that these lesions of the Fallopian tubes are the very frequent cause of pelvic l)eritonitis. Mr. Lawson Tait, referring to a class of cases in which recur- rent attacks of severe pelvic peritonitis occur in women in whom distinct tumors, on one or both sides of the uterus, are felt at some examinations, whilst at others no trace of them is detectable, says, “ I have so much more frequently found the Falloj)ian tubes at fault, that I am inclined to believe that in the great majority of these cases of recurrent pelvic peritonitis, due to ru])ture of a cyst, it is in the tubes that we shall find the origin of the mischief,” rather than in the bursting of small ovarian cysts.