115G HERNIA. same tissue. This horizontal fascia is called the septum erurale of Clo- quet. It offers no considerable opposition to the descent of a hernia, and is so indistinguishable from the fascia transversalis in a hernial condition, that it is of no practical use to the surgeon. On dissecting the crural ring from its peritoneal surface, it will be seen, on raising the serous membrane, that a slight dimple usually indicates the position of the ring, and that the deep epigastric vessels lie external and superior to the opening, arising from the external iliac. Sometimes these vessels are irregular. They may aiuse from tlie common femoral, as low down as the saphenous opening, or in common with the internal circumffex, in which case tlie epigastric will pass through the crural ring. (Fig. 1144.) The epigastric artery may give Fig. 1144. Irregular arrangement of arteries concerned in femoral hernia. Fig. 1145. Irregular course of obturator artery. off the ohtimdor, usually a branch of the internal iliac. When this is so, the obturator may either pass down into the pelvis, close to the external iliac vein, and therefore external to the crural opening (Fig. 1144); or it mai" pass over the latter, behind Poupart’s ligament, and descend along its inner mar- gin, just behind Gimbernat’s ligament. (Fig. 1145.) It is the latter rare position that concerns the surgeon in operating for strangulated crural hernia, since in dividing the ligaments freely the operator may divide the irregular artery. The arrangement, however, occurs so rarely that this seldom happens; one in five is about the proportion found in the dissecting-room, and not one in a thousand, perhaps, on the operating-table. It can be guai’ded against by not passing the hernia knife (which should not lie too sharp) too far into the abdominal cavity, when its point will push off' the elastic and yielding aitery before it, without cutting it. The irregularity is produced b}* an enlarge- ment of the normally existing branch of communication between the epigiis- tric and the obturator arteries. A crural hernia first makes its way by pushing before it from the perito- neal surface the sac and septum erurale on its surface, its direction being downwards and a little forwards; it then enters the crural canal, dilates