730 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. Cauterization.—Small, soft papillomata, favorably located, may sometimes be destroyed by repeated applications of concentrated solutions of zinc-cblo- ride, silver-nitrate, or chromic acid, or by applications of nitric acid, acid solution of mercuric nitrate, Vienna or London pastes, or the electric cauteiy. To avoid unpleasant accidents, preliminary, tentative eftbrts are necessaiy, in order that the requisite steadiness of the patient, and that accurate man- ipulation by the surgeon, may be assured. Concentrated caustic solutions are best applied l)y means of small fragments of sponge, firmly secured in reliable forceps. (Figs. 1078, 1079.) Solid caustics—silver nitrate and chromic acid—are best applied molten upon the roughened extremity of an aluminum probe. Concealed-caustic holders are clumsy to manage, and misguiding as to accuracy in manipulation. With tact and practice, the uncovered caustic can be applied thoroughly, and with equal safety. Repeated applications, at intervals of a day or longer, are usually requisite. The best chemical caustic, in most instances, is chromic acid. Its admirable efiect is delineated in Figs. 1080 and 1081. Fig. 1080. Growths on both vocal bands. Fig. 1081. Appearance of bands after destruction of growth by chromic acid. Treatment b}^ silver-nitnite is much more protracted. The electric cautery (Figs. 1082 and 1083) is preferred by many laryngologists, but is not in much favor with surgeons. Electric cauterization, while neither as painless nor as bloodless a procedure as has Ijeen asserted, is more liable than other methods of cauterization to excite acute traumatic laryngitis, and to be fol- lowed by secondary hemori-hage on detachment of the eschar. Whether a broad cautery or a pointed one is to be used, will deiiend upon individual indications. The shape of the largyneal curve can be readily altered by bending the conducting wires. Lbwenberg, of Paris, has simplified this method of treatment hy wrapping the insulating threads in such a manner as to leave exposed merely the segment of terminal to be .pressed against tbe growth. In this manner the sound tissues are better protected. As a rule, collateral inflammation is greater after electric than after chemical cau- terization. 17either method is desirable if the growth can be removed with