MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OP THE HEAD. 136 Symptoms and Diagnosis.—All these tumors have to a greater or less ex- tent the following general characteristift's. They are congenital, are most common over the occiput or root of the nose, and are fixed at their bases. They form roundish, elastic tumors, with, as a rule, some evidence of fluid contents; have often a pulsation synchronous with the heat of the heart d are increased in size by forced expiratory efforts ; and are more or less reduci- ble, such reduction being often followed b}^ brain symptoms (sense of pain or restlessness, vomiting, convulsions, or stupor, with, in some cases, stra- bismus and temporary loss of muscular power). If pendulous, the very weight of the tumor may cause such symptoms, all trouble passing off when the mass is elevated. In some cases the hole in the skull may be felt, and often the head is mici'ocephalic, or shows unequal development. The separate symp- toms of each special form of tumor, and the points in which they differ from one another, and which constitute the elements of their differential diagnosis, may be best exhibited in the form of a table. Size ami surface. Cover- ings. Pedicle. Fluctua- tion. Trans- lucency. l*uls{u tiou. Effects of forced expira- tions. Keduci- bilily. Pressure effects. Condition of skull, etc. r Small, es- As a As a rule Most dis- Perfectly Rarely Render Always Symp- As a rule pecially rule peduncu- tinct. translu- present the reducible, toms normal. Mexinqo- at first. normal; lated. cent tumor as a rule produced CELE. 1 — luav be through- more com- only on Surface thinn’d. out. tense. pletely. strong L smooth. pressure. As a rule As a Has a Absent Opaque, Distinct Pro- Reduci- Symp- As a rule small, sel- rule wide (mass soft unless pulsa- duce ble, but toms uormal. (lorn es- normal; base ; is and yield- tliere be tion. distinct not al- readily ceeds size mav be rarely iug) uu- fluid iu enlarge ways com- induced. Excephalo-J of small unduly peduncu- less there sac, when ment. pletelv. CELE. orange. vascu- lated. be fluid in mass may lar. sac. bo trails- Surface lucent at L smooth. apex. r Generally Often As arule Distinct. Often Very Pro- As a rule Symp- Microce- large, tbin,ex- distinctly translu- seldom duce are but toms phalic, or often of coriated peduncu- cent, but pulsate. only a little af- seldom scoliosis. great size, or lated. only at very fected in induced. May be and pen- wrin- the most slight size by paralysis H TERENCE- dulous. kled. proiniueut effect. pressure, of limbs PHALOCELE. — and de- and are or talipes. Surface pendent irreduci- often irre- parts. ble. gularly divided or lobed. These tumors have been mistaken for sebaceous cysts,^ for al)scesses,^ for vascular growths,^ for cephalluematomata,® for serous cysts,® and for nasal polypi.^ In the last instance (Dr. Lichtenberg’s case), a large bluish tumor q)rojected some way out of the nioutli. Its pedicle was traced through a cleft palate up to the roof of the nose. It Avas ligatured. Death ensued in • Sir Prescott Hewett says that pulsation is absent in the majority of cases. Loc. cit., p. 134. 2 Holmes’s Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases, page 67. 1868. See also Prescott Hewett, loc. cit., pp. 134. 3 Athol Johnson, Lectures on the Surgery of Childhood, p. 11. 1860. ^ Th. Zdzienski, Euceplialoceles Congenitae Casus rarior. Dorpati, 1857. Paul Dubois, quoted bv Sir P. Hewett, loc. cit. M. Guersant, Bull, de la Soc. de Chir. de Paris, tome i. p. 66. Jon. Hutchinson, Ulus, of Clin. Surgery, vol. i. page 1. 5 Observations on Surgical Diseases of Head and Neck. (Ferrand.) Sydenham Soc., p. 125. 1848. 3 Case of M. Chassaignac’s, quoted by M. L.-A. de St. Germain. Nouveau Diet., loc. cit.; also Holmes, op. cit., p. 66. ’ Lichtenberg, Trans. Patlu Soc. Lond., vol. xviii. page 250.