MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 154 very large, pulsation of a feeble character may be evident. It would appear that these angeiomata, as a rule, cause no trouble, and therefore require no active treatment. It will be obvious that any operative procedures directed against a vascular growth, large enough to cause trouble, would be associated with insurmountable difficulties and dangers if directed against the part itself. On the other hand, it is doubtful if carotid ligatiu’e would affect the progress of the growth with any great certainty. Exostoses.—Bony tumors of the skull may be divided into three classes, according to their situation or point of origin. Those that grow from the outer table are termed exostoses, those from the inner enostoses, spid those that spring from the diploe of the bone receive the name of iMvenchymatous exos- toses. Considered with reference to their structure, these growths may again be divided into ivory tumors, compact tumors, and cancellous or spongy tumors. The ivory tumor is by far the most common of these, being, indeed, almost limited to the bones of the head and face; and, on the other hand, if one regards the situation of the mass, the most common growth will be that classed with the exostoses. The causes of these tumors are but little known; some appear to be real new growths, others to be but partial bypertroiihies of existing bone-tissue, and very many to be of inflammatory origin. Often, therefore, no cause can be ascribed to explain the production of these tumors. The symmetry which tliey at times exhibit, and the great number of growths that one skull may present, would suggest some very general cause in some instances. Foil in and Duplay* quote from Ilauff, the case of a woman in whom each succeeding preg- nancy increased the size of a bony growth; and tlie same authors also mention l)rolonged exanthems of the scalp as a cause of at least one form of this malady. The osteomata of inflammatory origin are, however, easily explained. The great bulk of tbem are due to tertiaiy syphilis—to an osteo-periostitis occurring in that affection—while others can be traced to an injury, a blow or a fracture, followed by some inflammatory change in the part. The structure of these masses is simple. The ivory osteoma is, as a rule, made up of concentric bone lamellfe arranged parallel to the surface of the tumor, while among the lamellje bone-corpuscles are found, whose canalieuli radiate towards the periphery, as they do in tooth cement. The growth is non-vascidar. It has to the naked eye the appearance of ivory, and its white or yellowish-white color readily distinguishes it from the adjacent bone, so that, by these means, an ivory exostosis the size of a pin’s head can be easily detected.^ The spongy tumors have a structure like that of the cancellous tissue or medulla of bone, and are provided with a thin covering of compact tissue. The compact osteoma is intermediate between these two varieties. Its tissue is like that of the compact tissue of long bones. On section it appears porous, and its lamellae are, as a rule, concentrically arranged around vas- cular canals. Its color is so like that of the adjacent bone, that it forms tumors much less conspicuous to the eye, when small, than are the ivory osteomata. On microscopic section, these bone tumors are readily distinguished from the ancient bone, owing to the fact that the Haversian canals in the growths are nearly always arranged perpendicularly or obliquely to those of the original tissue.^ In every instance, the adjacent pericranium is continued over the surface of the exostosis. ' Traite de Path. Ext., tome hi. p. 577. 2 Hewett, Exostoses of Skull. St. George’s Hosp. Reports, vol. iv. p. 3. 1869. 2 Coruil et Rauvier, Man. d’Histologie Path., tome i. p. 267. 1881.