122 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. Cephalhaematoma.—This term is limited to hlood tumors formed between the pericranium and the bone, and occurring in newlj-born children. These tumors are very rare. In observations made at the Hospice de la Charite de Marseille, Seux* met with only 19 cases of cephallHematoma in 5674 newly- born children—a proportion of about 1 in 298. Bouchacourt,^ from the col- lected statistics of other observers, gives the proportion as 1 in 250 newly- born children. Cephalluematoma is much more common in male than in female children, and is said to be somewhat more frequent in the cliildren of primiparre than in ofliers. Seat.—The great majority of these tumors are situated on the parietal bones, and more often on the right side than on the left. They generally occupy the posterior superior angle of the bone. Elsewhere they are very rare. A few have been met with over the occipital bone, still fewer over the frontal, and none on the temporal bone. There may be one, or even more than one, on each parietal. Anatomy.—The pericranium inclosing the extravasated blood is quite unal- tered, except under certain circumstances, to be hereafter mentioned. The subjacent bone usually presents a normal aspect, although in cases of long standing it may become rough by a deposit of new bone upon its surface.® In some rare cases it may be thinned, and, still more rarely, perforated.* The contained blood may be liuid, and coagulate on removal; but more usu- ally it is found more or less coagulated, and of jelly-like consistence. Some- times it appears to be inclosed in a kind of pseudo-membrane. Before it has existed long, and generally within a Aveek, certain changes take place at the extreme periphery of the tumor, Avhich finally result in the mass being encircled in an osseous ring or “ hourreldJ’’ This osseous circle is typical of cephalhfematoma. It occupies precisely the angle formed at the spot where the pericranium actually leaves the bone, and as that surface of the long ring which looks towards the blood collection is perpendicular to the plane of tlie skull, it Avill he seen that this hourrelet in transverse section present a tri- angular outline.® The bony matter of the ring is easily separated from the subjacent bone, Avhich then appears normal. Similar formations of bone are observed in rabbits subjected to experimental elevation of the pericranium.® As the cephalhcematoma subsides, the osseous circle disappears, and in time leaves not the least trace of its existence. In certain cases, more especially in those of old standing, a thin layer of bone forms beneath the separated peri- cranium, and a tumor so modified often crackles under the finger like tinsel.’’ Causes.—Valleix,® and also Paul Dubois,® have shown that, in the newly- born, the external table of the skull is porous. Avascular, incomplete, and par- tially absent. The diploic vessels, therefore, are almost exposed; and it is easy to understand that eA’en a trifling pressure applied to the yielding head of an infant, during deliA^ery, may cause the pericranium to glide upon the subjacent bone, and, by a slight injury to Avascular connections, jiroduce a hemorrhage. Bouchacourt’s'® researches shoAV that at the base of the com- mon SAAmllings of the head in the iieAvly-born, a slight subpericranial hemor- < Seux, Recherclies sur les Maladies des Enfants Nouveaux-nes. Paris, 1863. 2 A. Bonchacourt, Nouveau Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Prat., Art. Cephalematome. 1873. 5 West, Diseases of Infancy and Childhood, 6th ed., p. 59. 1874. * Follin et Duplay, Traits de Path. Ext., tome iii. p. 556. 1869. ® A good drawing to show this osseous ring is figured by Follin and Duplay, op. cit., p. 558. ® Bouchacourt, lou. cit., p. 5. ’ This change is well described in South’s edition of Chelius’s “Surgery,” vol. ij. p. 449. ® Valleix, Clinique des Malades des Enfants Nouveaux lies, p. 494. Paris, 1839. ® Diet, de Medecine, etc., 2e ed. (Diet, en 30), Art. Cephalematome. Bouchacourt, loc. cit., p. 6,