657 SURGERY OF THE PERMANENT TEETH. one to overcome a complicated dental irregularity, who has not a compre- hension of each and all of these instrumentalities. As far as pressure itself is concerned, it is immaterial from whence it is derived. The same weight, force, or power will produce the same result. It is only a matter of convenience what source shall be employed. For widening a narrowed arch, a jackscrew is the most effective means, and can be used to spread one tooth only, or all the teeth upon both sides according as it is applied. Wedges driven between the teeth will enlai'ge the arch. Levers, with elastics, are used to twist teeth in their sockets, and an inclined plane can be made to move teeth laterally. The application of such appa- ratus to effect the movement of teeth, is one of the most responsible duties the dentist is called upon to perform. Each and every one of these mechanical powers can be made to do his bidding, and ecpially each one of them may become a formidable engine of disaster. When applied to the mouth, they should have constant watchfulness and care. ISlot one of them but, in the hands of an empiric, may cause the destruction of those valuable organs which, when skilfully used, they can be made to conserve. Dental Caries.—Caries of the teeth depends on a constitutional condition wliich originates in an impairment of function, either in the individual or in his ancestors; consequently, on a condition which is common among highly civilized, and correspondingly rare among savage races. Civilization bears the same relation to caries of the teeth, that it does to other diseases Avhich are incidental to, and the outgrowth of, a violation of hygienic laws. In a strong and healthy organization, where there is no inherited predisposition to caries shown in a defective organic structure, teeth will not decay except- ing from want of nutrition arising from functional disturbance. Like any other tissue of the body, the teeth require constant nutrition, or they will yield to external agents; but unlike other tissues, repair Avill not follow the return of nutrition. Excepting for defective nutrition, teeth of good organization, in a healthy body, Avill remain sound for a lifetime with- out care; Avhile teeth with an inherited frail organization, and easily liable to decay, may resist for a lifetime adverse influences, by the aid of constant supervision and attention to bodily health. ^Microscopic investigation shows that the organic matter of a tooth forms a reticular network, Avhich traverses the entire structure, dentine, cementurn, and enamel inclusive. It forms the matrix of the lime salts, and is the vehi- cle for the nourishment of the organism. Caries is a solution of the lime salts, originating always from outside influences favored by a congenitally frail organization, or by an acquired state of diverted or impaired nutrition. External agents of an acid character are the sole local cause of decay, and by far the greater part of this decalciflcation is caused by acids produced in the mouth by fermentation—lactic, acetic, butyric, etc. All electrical con- ditions found associated with decay, as well as the presence of bacteria, micro- cocci, or leptothrix, do not constitute causes, but are incidental results. Micro-organisms are always present in carious dentine, but it is very doubtful if they have tlie alfllity to penetrate beyond the layer of tissue softened by acids. In healtliy conditions the saliva is alkaline, Avhile the secretions of the mucous membrane are acid; but the teeth do not sufler from this acidity, because it is neutralized by the saliva, whereas in an unhealthy condition the mucous secretions may be in excess, or the saliva may become acid. Food in its fermentative stages, between the teetli, may contribute to this state. Starchy foods are found to give decided acidity, while animal food gives an alkaline or neutral reaction. The vulnerable points are found in fissures of the enamel in defectively formed teeth, which