DISEASES OE THE MIDDLE EAR. 333 the remainder of the growth is to be treated in precisely the same way as the first portion. The wire loop is to be applied again and again until the base of the growth has been cut away to the level of the surrounding mucous membrane or skin. If the polypoid mass springs from some portion of the external auditory canal, it will be found as a rule decidedly firmer in texture and more sensitive than one of middle-ear origin. It will also not possess the same degree of mobility as the latter. The polypi of middle-ear origin, we shall find, spring more frequently from the upper and posterior portion of the tympanum (entrance to the antrum) than from any other locality. It is a good rule in practice not to resort to the use of caustics until the base or peduncle of the polypus has been cut away with the snare to the level of the surrounding parts (skin or mucous membrane). Furthermore, ill deciding whether the peduncle has been cut away to the proper level, we are not to trust to the sense of sight alone ; the behavior of the peduncle, when circumscribed by the end of the probe, furnishes the only trustworthy guide to a knowledge of the exact relations which this peduncle bears to the surrounding parts. When the mass has been so far extirpated that we can- not encircle it with a wire, we may, with benefit to the patient, resort to the use of caustics and astringents. In a few cases, after the removal of a polypoid growtli from the ear, the hemorrliage from the divided vessels is quite active. This occurrence, how- ever, need give us no anxiety, as the bleeding very rarely proves to be exces- sive. In placing the loop of wire over granulation-growths in the immediate neighborhood of the middle ear, great care must lie taken not include one of the ossicles, especially the handle of the hammer, in the loop. After we have cut away as much of the growth as we can with the wire loop, if the remain- ing stump or base rise in the slightest degree above the surrounding level, we should apply caustic to the exposed raw surtace. Care, however, must be taken not to cauterize the part too deeply. Ily some excellent authorities chromic acid is preferred to nitrate of silver as a caustic. While I feel more at home in the use of nitrate of silver, I am disposed to look upon chromic acid as a most useful caustic. The only objection that I can raise against it, is this : it must be applied to the affected part with decided caution, or its destructive action will extend to a greater depth than is desirable. The remedy should only be used in a fluid state (after deliquescence lias taken place), as the old practice of depositing a minute crystal of the acid upon the part to be cauterized, 'often leads to the development of a severe and trouldesorne inflammation. Furthermore, it is a good plan not to make caustic applications oftener than on every other day. When we believe that we have accomplished all that is necessary in the matter of levelling the granulating area, we should abandon the caustic treatment, and apply powdered burnt alum to the affected spot. We should transport the alum, grain by grain, on the moistened end of a slender probe, until the part is well covered with the powder. Tlie old plan of blowing the powder indis- criminately over all the deeper parts of the ear, is open to decided ol jections. Powdered iodoform, or boracic acid, may safely be blown, in a thin layer, over all these parts, but it is not good practice to use alum in this unrestricted manner, as it sometimes greatly aggravates the inflammation which we are striving so hard to control. When we find tliat fhe ulcerative process has involved tlie underlying lione, we must not be surprised if our therapeutic efforts prove oidy partially successful. Various plans of treatment have been tried for the cure of bone-caries in the outer or the middle ear, but I have not found any of them of special value. In eases of this nature, I carry out precisely the same plan of treatment as that Avhieh I have just described. As soon as I have succeeded in clearing the cavities of granulation-