139 DISEASES OF THE SKHLL, ETC. matory material that has been poured out between them. The inflam- matory products are apt to soon become purulent, and an acute periosteal abscess to be thus formed. The diploic tissue is congested and invaded with an inflammatory exudation that is also very apt to become purulent. At an early stage jiblebitis of the diploic veins is prone to occur, and these vessels will be found blocked with thrombi, that in severe cases are breaking down in suppuration. As not infrequent complications may be noted inflammation of the dura mater or of the other membranes of the brain, collections of pus between the dura mater and the bone, thrombosis of the cerebral sinuses, and in rare instances abscess of the brain. The inflammatory action may extend towards the surface and result in a suppurative inflammation of the sub-aponeurotic connective tissue, or of the scalp itself. If a fatal termination does not ensue at an early date, necrosis of the affected bone is a common result of this malady.^ The symptoms of this disease are somewhat obscure, and are apt to be masked by those more serious complications with which it is .so often at- tended. The patient complains at first of a fixed pain at some part of the skull, which pain persists, is frequently intense, and usually much worse at night. Rigors occur, associated witli fever, headache, vomiting, and in some cases delirium. A painful, tense, and deep-seated tumor appears at the affected spot, if the skin be intact, and in the centre of this mass fluctuation in time becomes evident. There is often some oedema of the scalp, especially in the later stages. If the tumor be incised, pus escapes, and the subjacent bone is found to be bai’e. Cerebral symptoms are apt to supervene, or, if the case assume a more favorable aspect, necrosis of the affected bone may be diagnosed. From diffuse inflammation of the scalp this malady may be distinguished by the early appearance of oedema in the former affection, the somewhat less intense character of the pain and general symptoms, and the fact that the swelling is diffuse and apt to spread widely, whereas in osteo- periostitis it remains limited to the bone involved, and does not extend l)e- yond the lines of the sutures. The prognosis is unfavorable. Death occurs in the majority of cases, being caused usually either by cerebral complications or by pyfemia. The early and marked implication of the veins of tlie part especially favors this latter termination. In rare instances resolution may occur. In other cases a necrosis of the inflamed bone is brought about. This necrosis may be of a slight and siq)erficial character, but more usually it involves the entire thick- ness of the affected bone. Treatment.—Cases of acute osteo-periostitis of the skull must be treated on the general principles advocated in the treatment of like conditions elsewhere. An early incision is imperative, and a free exit must be given to all purulent collections. An ice bag should be kept constantly applied to the head. If the affection can be recognized early, and its nature clearly demonstrated, it may be advisable to trephine the external table and open u]> the diploe. The early occurrence, however, of diploic phlebitis would negative to some extent the usefulness of this measure. II. Chronic osteo-periostitis may in rare instances follow upon the acute form of the disease, but in the great majority of cases is due to syphilis. The ])athology of this affection (considering onl}'' the more common form) is treated of in other portions of the work. In this place it is only necessary to allude to the few points that follow ; The inflammatory process involved ' A good account of this affection, illustrated hy excellent plates, will he found in Mr. Jona- than Hutchinson’s Illustrations of Clinical Surgery, vol. i. Loudon, 1878.