291 EXAMINATION OF THE PATIENT. 3. Marked increase in the tension of the fluid contents of the labyrinth, due to «. rupture of a bloodvessel and escape of blood into the labyrinth; h. simple fulness of the bloodvessels ; c. extreme pressure of the foot-plate of the stirrup upon the labyrinthic fluid ; all of which conditions are competent to greatly increase the pressure upon the contents of the labyrinth. In actual practice these distinctions are of little value.. At the same time, they sometimes help us to explain satisfactorily those rare cases in Avhich the hearing is rapidly lost, and then afterward is almost as rapidly restored.' Fig. 882. Instruments and Methods of Examination.—It is a matter of the first importance that the physician who contemplates studying diseases of the ear, should be provided with good insti’uments. Badlj^ devised or clumsily con- structed instruments will make it impossible for him, in many cases, to arrive at a correct diagnosis, and, in other cases still, he will, by tbeir use, cause the patient mueli unnecessary discomfort or even pain. In a few individuals, the external auditory canal is so broad and straight that the physician can see its walls throughout their entire length, and even the drum-membrane, by direct inspection, without the aid of instruments of any kind. In the majority of persons, however, a satisfactory view of these regions cannot be obtained except with the aid of two kinds of instruments, viz., one to push aside the soft walls of the orifice of the canal (car specula), the other to illuminate the parts thus rendered accessilile (mirrors of various kinds). Of the different patterns of ear specidiiin which are offered for sale in the surgical instrument-makers’ shops, the cheapest and at the same time the best is that known by the name of IVilde’s ear speculum. (Fig. 882.) This instrument represents a truncated, hollow cone of coin silver, polished within and witliout. The cheaper variety, which is made, I believe, of “German silver,” is a very poor substitute for tbat made of coin metal. For all ordinary demands, three different sizes of ear speculum ivill be found sufficient. They should all be of about the same length, but their calibres sliould differ. The aperture, at the smaller end of the insti’ument, should measure not less than three and a half millimetres in diameter, for the smallest of the three specula, and not more than .seven millimetres for the largest. The walls of the instrument should be no thicker than is sufficient to prevent them from bending under ordinary manipulations. It is scarcely possible at the present time to purchase ear specula that arc not very faulty in this important respect. It is necessary to have them made to order. For purposes of illumination, either the hand-mhror or the Joreheadanirror may be em})loyed. As far as the mirror itself is concerned, these two are one and the same thing. In practice it has been found tbat the best illumination is obtained with a concave mii-ror of circular form, and possessing a focal distance of from twelve to thirty centimetres, according to the rerpiiremcnts of the visual power of the observer. A focal distance of about twenty Wilde’s ear speculum. ' I have recently seen a case of chronic congestive catarrli of one middle ear, in which, during some of the exacerbations, the Iiearing power of one ear (for sounds of either tlie voice or the vil)rating tuning-fork pressed against the forehead) was com2iletely obliterated. With the sub- sidence of the more marked congestion of the tymj)anic mucous membrane, the hearing returned to a very useful degree, the patient being able to correctly distinguish words spoken in an ordi- nary tone of voice at a distance of ten or fifteen feet.