374 DISEASES AND INJUKIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. recurrence of the disease, with intervals of a few days, and for an indefinite period, is occasionally met with. As a rule, however, complete resolution occurs within the above-mentioned time, especially if measures have been taken to control the inflammatory process. The termination of the disease in suppuration is very rare, and fatal cases of coryza have been recorded only as occurring in aged persons or in infants, in both instances death being- due either to obstructed respiration or to interference with nutrition. Acute coryza in the mfant assumes features that are not present in the same disease in the adult, and the immediate danger is cori-espondingly in- creased. This increased danger lies both in the obstruction to nasal respi- ration caused in the small and narrow passages by the tumefied mucous mem- brane, and in the difliculty with which the child is nourished, owing to its inability to hold its mouth, which is required for respiratory pm-poses, closed long enough to take the breast. If the attack be prolonged, not only will the infant lose strength, but the prognosis, in not a few instances, will become decidedly grave. Syphilitic coryza in the infant is not always clearly defined as regards its true nature. An acute, pei’sistent coryza, occurring in a very young infant, must always be regarded with suspicion; and, if a clear clinical history of the disease in the parents fail, resort to a mercurial course of treatment is certainly justifiable in attempting to establish the diagnosis. Gonorrhoeal coryza in the infant is the result of infection of the nasal pas- sages by secretions from the vagina of the mother during delivery; and, when seen in the adults arises from the direct conveyance of the poison to the nasal mucous membrane by the fingers, soiled pocket handkerchiefs, and the like. The symptoms are those of an aggravated, purulent, catarrhal in- flammation or coryza. Treatment of Acute. Coryza.—The success of the abortive treatment of an acute coiyza depends entirely upon the promptness with which it is instituted. Many remedies are vaunted—none, perhaps, are specific and unfailing in their action. Among the commonest is the administration of a full dose of the tincture of the chloride of iron, or quinine (gr. x-xv), followed at bedtime by hot alcoholic drinks, and a mustard foot-bath; or, if much local jDain and distress exist, a Dover’s powder (gr. x). Cohen advises the admin- istration of chloroform to produce free anaesthesia, and claims that an attack may thus be aborted. Robinson recommends one of the following prescrip- tions :— R.—Spirit, ammoni® aromat., f^iss. Sig.—Teaspoonful in water (foj~foiss) every two hours. R.—Ammonii carb., ; Liq. morph, sulphat. (U. S.), f3j ; Mist amygdal®, ad f§iij. M. Sig A teaspoonful in water (f Jj) every hour during six hours, and afterwards every hour and a half. If there be much fever, tincture of aconite root (| to I of a drop to each dose) may be substituted for the morphine in the last mixture; and for the relief of the local inflammation and its attendant pain and discomfort, a powder of— R.—Pulv. fol. belladonn®, gr. xx ; Pulv. morph, sulph., gr. ij ; Pulv. acaci®, ad 5ss. may be insufflated into the nasal passages both anteriorly and posteriorly.