1067 CYSTS OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. tery to the tumor in the pelvic cavity. The tumor was witliin tlie mesentery, covered by a loop of intestine, and by a ring of mesentery like a rutf. Pappy fluid was exuded at two small round openings. The margins of the wound in the mesentery were brought together by catgut sutures. Some enlarged mesenteric glands, as well as the tumor, were enucleated. The patient recovered perfectly. The cyst-contents consisted of albumi- nous and fatty detritus without any formed elements; this Dr. Werth takes to have been inspissated chyle. Rokitansky has described cysts of this kind. Probably Dr. Pitman’s case, at St. George’s Hospital, was one of chylous cyst. Klebs, Eppinger, Roth, and Pean, have recorded cases of cyst of the mesentery, but not of the same nature as Werth’s and Pitman’s. Cysts of the Urachus.—Besides the permanently tubular condition of the vesical end of the urachus tvhich has been many times observed, and to which attention has already been drawn under the name of urachal listula, pouches or cj-st-like dilatations of the urachus ai-e sometimes found in the abd(jininal wall, or at the umbilicus. These cysts are results of the imper- fection of the embryonic changes which should entirely obliterate the tube of the urachus. They are situated in the cellular tissue immediately out- side the parietal peritoneum, and though often small, they may attain such a size as to simulate ovarian cystic disease. Their contents are serous, their gro^vth is slow and painless, and they may be multiple; one instance at least has been reported in which there were three immense cystic dilatations. When situated at the umbilicus they may be mistaken for umbilical hernia; but the soft, elastic, and perhajis fluctuating feel—possibly the translueency— and cei’tainly the history and irreducibility of the swelling, Avill assist to a right diagnosis. Small cysts of the urachus are occasionally met ivith Avhen dividing the abdominal wall; and Mr. Lawson Tait has related two cases of large extra- ])eritoneal cysts Avhicli he believes to have been urachal, and which in some respects closely resembled in their clinical characters ovarian or parovarian tumors. In each of these cases a large cyst Avas situated between the transversalis fascia and tlie thickened peritoneum; in each case a large quantity of thick, brown, purulent fluid, mixed Avith large masses of fibrinous deposit, Avas contained Avithin the cyst. In one case the cyst had been tapped, and ten pints of this fluid had been draAvn ofl’; subse- quently thirty pints were withdraAvn from it, and the cyst was removed in its entirety; the intestines and pelvic organs were non-adherent, and a[)parently healthy, and could be felt through the exposed but unopened peritoneal membrane. The inner surface of the cyst Avas composed of broken-down mucoid epithelium, infiltrated everyAvhere Avith pus, and lying upon a basement-membrane of muscular fibre. The tumor, though entirely extra-peritoneal, dipped into tlie pelvis on the right of the median line. In the second case the cyst Avas gangrenous. Both patients succumbed to the operation. It is a remarkable tbing, if tbe theory of the nracbal origin of these cysts is correct, that the cysts remained so manj^ years in abeyance, and then sud- denly developed to such an enormous size.’ The fatal results in these cases point out the risk there is in removing Itirge extra-peritoneal tumors from the abdominal parietes. The vitality of the exposed and disturbed perito- neum is likely to bo destroyed, and therefore incision and drainage ivould * As bearing upon cases sneb as these, tbe reader is referred to a paper by Mr. Knowsley Tliornton, in tbe tAA'enty-nintli volume of tbe Pathological Society’s Transactions (pi. ll.'i), on a case ot “Peritoneal cysts, with blood-cyst of left ovary.” Mr. Thornton believes the cysts in bis case to have arisen in the sub-endotlielial cellular tissue, and to have pnisbed tbe pieritoneuiu and its contents aside. 1 be cysts were removed, lint tbe general peritoneal cavity was never opiened at all the ov;wy having been reached through two adherent layers of pieritoneuiu.