8 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. arterial trunk b}" ulceration, giving rise to hemorrhage, the soni’ce of which is often difficult to ascertain, owing to the accumulation of blood beneath the scalp. Pressure upon the main trunks of the scalp arteries should be tried in turn, until the right vessel is detected, when it may be compi’essed, acu- pi’essed, or tied.^ A generous diet, iron and other tonics, carbonate of ammonium, and large (piantities of stimulants, are, from the outset, often necessary to tide bad cases over the worst; but treated in the wa}^ described, it is astonishing how well they eventually do, the extensively separated scalp hecoming adherent to the deeper structures, and the denuded bone being covered in by granulations. When the etforts of nature seem unequal to the task of vascularizing the denuded external table of the skull, left bare by the sloughing of the pericranium, the surgeon may drill with an awl a number of small holes close together into the diploe, and through these, as I have seen in a case of ^Vgnew’s, granulations may sprout.^ The use of disinfectant injections beneath the separated scalj), counter-openings for the escape of pus and sloughs, and the application of compresses to }>revent bagging of matter, are too manifest therapeutic indications to need more than this mention. Injuries of the Skull. Contusions of Bone.—Those complications which render injuries of the scalp most formidable, originate, for the most part, in contusions of the skull. Caused, as they not unfrequently are, by slight blows, falls, injuries from spent balls “removing perhaps only the hair,’'^ etc., the resultant symptoms, delayed and insidious, often escape detection until hopeless complications have supervened. Bone-contusion may I’esult in one or all of these conditions: 1, rupture of the bloodvessels may occur between the pericranium and the bone, resulting in an effusion of blood, and secondarily of inffammatory effusions, Avhich strip the membrane from the skull to a varying extent; 2, the same accidents may happen to the vessels running between the dnra mater and the inner surface of the skull; and 3, the sinus-like veins of the diploe may be either bruised or ruptured, or the cancellous tissue itself may be broken down, tbe more elastic compact tables of the cranium escaping manifest inj ury. In the ffrst two instances, the contiguous bone, deprived of one of its chief sources of blood, is apt to become necrosed with consequent suppuration. In the third case, an osteo-myelitis results which probably goes on to necrosis, suppura- tion, implication of the dura, and even of the brain and its membranes. In most instances, more than one of the conditions co-exist, usually the first and third. The osteo-myelitis^ set up by contusion may be observed under three conditions;— 1. It may occur as an acute disease, limited to the site of injury ; 2. It may also be seen as a chronic affection, lasting for years, and resulting in either limited or general, irregular thickening of the inner or outer tables of the skull, or of both, causing perhaps, when the inner table is affected, epilepsy or maniacal seizures, provoked, most probably, by some temporary > A<^new (op. cit., vol. i. p. 257) ascribes this advice to Hewett. 2 This operation originated with a French frontier surgeon, and was said to have been so exten- sively practised in cases of scalping, and with such uniformly good results, that soon after its introduction every frontier post had persons who performed it. (Eve, Remarkable Cases in Sur- gery, p. 35. Philadelphia, 1857.) ® Gant, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 148. * 1 prefer the term osteo-myelitis rather than osteitis, as the diploe sooner or later becomes affected.