INJURIES OE THE SKULL. 17 the comparatively undisturbed surrounding bone serves as immovable abut- ments to the straightened arch. If there is a depression without actual fracture of the outer table as well as of the inner, the force has been such as, by partially crushing them, to overcome the resiliency of the bony fibres of the outer table and the diploe, and thus prevent restoration of the arch form. The truth of Teevan’s views as to the bone yielding first on the side of extension, is proved by the fact that blows infiicted upon the inner table of the skull, will cause > more extensive shattering of the outer table than of it.' A fissure of the outer table may be so slight as to escape close scrutiny, while the inner table has been extensively comminuted. After careful search in one instance, the fissuring would have been overlooked had it not been that a minute tuft of hair was imprisoned by the fissure when the impacting force made it gape widely. In a case reported by Dr. P. II. Watson, a tuft of hair was found in a portion of skull bared by what had been supposed to be only a scalp-injury, the fissure having been originally wide enough to allow the passage of a thin flake of lead from a i)assing ball, which was found, after trephining, lying upon the dura mater.^ Fissured fractures are the ouly variety of such injuries which occur l>y contreconp^ or counter-stroke; they may be very extensive, separating the upper from the lower part of the skull, or its anterior from its posterior segment, by extending through the base.^ There is one portion of the vault where extensive splintering and depression may occur without any involvement of the inner table, and that is in the region of the frontal sinuses. As these cavities do not exist until at or after pu- Vjerty, and do not attain oftentimes any great size until after twenty-five years of age, fractures of this region must be most carefully examined. Even in advanced adult age, the frontal sinus may exist only on one side, or there may be a large sinus on one side of the median line and only a minute one on the other. Again, the frontal sinuses may be large enough to lodge a musket-ball without injury to the inner table of the skull. Race has some- thing to do with the development of these cells, which arc peculiarly large in the full-blooded African.^ Fracture of the inner table of the skull is a very uncommon injury, and more often results from blows of glancing bullets® than from the accidents incident to civil life. Still it may occur from blows by stones, sticks, or cricket balls, and the possilfility should not be lost sight of, as the danger to life of these injuries is very great. In one case reported by Mr. Edwards,® fatal intracranial hemorrhage occurred as the result of laceration of tlie mid- dle menitigeal artery by a scale of tlie inner table. The external table of the skull was intact. The mechauisni l)y which these fractures are pro<luced has been already explained. Fig. 821, from a specimen kindly placed at my dis- posal by Dr. J. F. Holt, of Philadelphia, exhibits tlie ap})earances seen in such cases. Although the broken fragments may remain at the same level with that of the healthy bone, they are generally u[ion a deeper plane, that is, are depressed. Still more rarely in civil life, the fragments may be above the level of the sound bone, as in a case reported by Ilewett, where a cliisel fell ' Loc. cit. 2 E(lirit). Med. Journal, July, 1870. * Sir A. Cooper, Lectures, ed. by Tyrrell, Am. ed., p. 131. 1839. * Hilton, Lectures on tlie Cranium. ® Twenty such cases are reported in the Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion. See also Guthrie’s Commentaries on the Surgery of War, (Jtli ed. p. 322, etc. 1862. Pott, Dease, Deane, S. Cooper, Weeds, and othei's, report cases. Tliere is a well-marked specimen of tliis form of fracture in the Mutter Museum. Similar cases are also to he found in the works of Par6 and other writers. * Edinh. Med. Journ., vol. viii. p. 191. VOL. V.—2