805 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Their tedious cicatrization is doubtless due to the want of that absolute rest and immo- bility requisite for prompt reparation.* When we coiisiclei* that these remarks are based on the observation of gunshot wounds—not incised, nor even lacertited or punctured wounds—the estimate of gravity falls still lower, for no wound ecpials in its risks, no matter how trivial it may be, the gunshot. We may therefore take the injuries referred to in the sentences above (pioted, as of the worst of their kind; but what a small list of deaths, and how many of them absolutely remote in causation from the wound. In civil practice nothing is seen to change the aspect which the military picture presents; incisions on the thorax do as well as elsewhere, and we rarely see the plaies en scion as a result either of accidental or of intentional wound. The question next in importance, after this short examination of superticial wounds of the chest, leads us on directly to the subject of penetratiug wounds. The treatment of the superficial injuries, if we exclude, as is best done at present, the wounds of the axilla and root of the neck, need not delay us, for the ordinary principles of surgery apply, and no exceptional difficulty presents itself in carrying out their details. Penetrating Wounds op the Chest.—In passing on to penetrating wounds, it does not seem necessary to examine the question of their mechanism, as in the case of contusions, for every one can work out the problem who knows the relations and structure of the viscera, and who understands the essential characters of the "kinds of wound indicted either by cut or stab, or by gunshot injury. What are the cliaracters that distinguish penetrating from superdcial wounds? The kind and direction of the external wouml or wounds, diffi- culty of breathing, luernoptysis, emphysema, passage of air through the wound, the escape of mingled air and blood from the wound, and, at a later period, pneumonia. It is evident that, under exceptional conditions, the Idnd and direction of the wound alone may suffice for exact diagnosis: if, for instance, a sword or bayonet has transdxed the chest from before, or laterally, so that the straight line connecting its hilt and ]>oint, or tlie corresponding oridees, must traverse the lung, then no doubt need exist; but such a conclusion may not be drawn from the observation of bullet-injuries, unless indeed the (piality and speed of the projectile be accurately known, for the dedection of bullets is a familiar fact. Remove the evidence adbrded liy an oridee of egress, of either liayonet or bullet, and at once the range of uncertainty increases so that the highest degree of doubt may exist as to the direction and depth of the wound. Even the existence of two openings is but equivocal evidence that a bullet has passed through :ind through, for this condition may result from two bullets, neither of which may have entered the cavity. JJifficnlty of brea.thiinj^ Fraser^ tells us, “ is most fallacious as a sign of chest- wound ; it may be most intense from moral or other causes, when the lung is not wounded, and it maybe altogether absent, when the lung is seriously im- plicated.” In thirty cases of jtroven wound of the lung, dyspnma was noted as absent in twenty-two. Xot oidy may there be no dyspnma at tirst, but there may be an almost com[)lete immunity from shock. Ifceinoptysis in the same group of cases was wanting in twenty-three, although it has l)cen regarded as most constant by some writers. I have ' Mwl. and Surg. Hist, of the War of tlie Keb(dlioii, Part First, Surgical Volume, page 472. * Treatise upon Penetrating Wounds of the Chest, page 45. London, 1859.