DIAGNOSIS OF OCULAR AFFECTIONS WITHOUT THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 185 come the hyperopia. When the hyperopia is all manifest, the simple use of the mirror and of the test-glasses is all that is required. In that con- dition hyperopes are compelled to use glasses all the time, or else to see very imperfectly. They need one pair to neutralize the hyperopia and to walk with, and another, stronger pair to read with. Young liyperopes, whose eyes have been trained to tolerate tlie glasses they need, can use the same glasses for walking and reading. Their accommodation makes up for the increased refraction needed in reading. Another anomaly of refraction is often found, alone, or in connection with hyperopia or myopia. It is due to ditferences of curvature in the ditferent meridians of the cornea, and is called astigma- tism. As in other anomalies, the refraction may he defective or excessive, constituting Ipyperopic or mj'opic astigmatism. Astigmatism in liigh de- grees impairs the sight much more than simple hyperopia or myopia, as the effect is very imi)erfectly corrected by accommodation. The diagnostic aids are the ophthalmoscope, mydriaties, and tests with glasses of cylindrical surface, convex and concave. The usual test-types, as in trying for hyperopia and myopia, a system of lines radiating from a centre, and other devices, are resorted to in order to facilitate accuracy of diagnosis. My space will not allow details in this interesting department of physiological optics. Diagnosis of Ocular Affections without the Use of the Ophthalmoscope. Medical men often talk flippantly about the use of the ophthalmoscope, flourishing the instrument before the dazed eyes of their patients, seeing nothing and not even knowing how to interpret that. It is kept as one of many professional trappings, and has its I’eward. As a blow-bugle, in tlie recruiting oflice of rival medical schools, it has an important place, but how few students ever look through it with discrimination! A few weeks of special instruction by a competent teacher will alone enable the student to begin the intelligent enqiloyment of it in diagnosis. But daily and perse- vering use of tliis or any other instrument of ]»recision, is required to give it serious importance. I do not exaggerate its difliculities, or dis})arage its faith- ful employment. It is invaluable in the differential diagnosis of deep-seated lesions of the eye, as ivell as in the study of disease seated elsewhere. It would.be as rational to study astronomy by the aid of a spy-glass when we can use a telescope, as to discard the opbthalmoscojte in the critical study of fundamental diseases of the e}’e. But I sinqfly state the above ^vell-kuo^vn facts, in order to urge the importance of other and simpler means of diag- nosis, which are too much neglected by the general practitioner. I want to show how many valuable things he can And out l>y the aid of the spy-glass! Cataract^ when bad enough to seriously trouble sight, can be perfectly made out Avitliout the ophthalmoscope. With the pupil dilated and oblique illumination, no doubt need exist. Then the functional tests will show whether the visual defect is in rational pi\)})ortion to the changes seen in the lens. Is the cataract mature, and the }iropriety of an; operation asked? Functional interrogation of the retina as to acuteness of perception, and tlie visual field, is easily made and satisfactory. Glaucoma., frequent in senile subjects, may be fatally mistaken for cataract. And yet no very great tact is required to settle the diflerentiation without the use of the eye mirror. Tlie absence of detinalile opacities in the lens; careful and repeated tests of tension ; the general outward a]ipearanee of the eye, including the e])iscleral circulation; the size of the pupil, its activity and the texture of the iris; and above all, trials of visual acuity and the integrity of the field, will settle the question. Simple cataract runs its entire course without pain. Glaucoma