105.3 HYDATIDS. charge, pyaemia, and secondary abscesses. The best security against these contingencies is early operation. That the mortality hitherto has been nearly fifty per cent., and tliat many of the successful cases have recovered only after a long and exhausting illness, is largely due to hesitation and pro- crastination before having recourse to the operation. The preceding table (page 1048) contains most, if not absolutely all, of the cases which have been under treatment in the Middlesex Hospital, since the termination of the late Dr. Murchison’s connection with it. The cases therein contained show the advantage of operative treatment, by either simple tapping or incision. When the treatment has failed, it has been because failure of tapping has not been followed up by free incision ; or because a second or thii'd, deeper-placed cyst has burst into the peritoneum or lung; or, finally, lieeause the cyst has existed a very long time, and jaundice and its other ill eflects have been produced before the case has come under treatment at the hospital. The influence of Cruveilhier,* Recamier,- B%in,^ and others, who used to insist on the necessity of adhesions before operating u])on hydatid cysts and abscesses of tlie liver, and who resorted to tedious and harmful methods to obtain these adhesions, did much to retard the adoption of a lietter line of ti-eatment. The same fears do not trouble the surgeon of to-day; and it is much to be regretted tliat the remarks made by Dr. Wm. Thomson, in 1841, in his learned and practical treatise on “Diseases of the Liver and Biliary Passages,” were not earlier acted upon by sui’geous generally. Dr. Thomson says d “ The observations already made in respect to opening of abscesses, seem to show that the apprehensions about exploratory punctures of arpieous or hydatid cysts of the liver are exaggerated ; and perhaps, also, to suggest the expediency of an operation being performe<l in this class of cases at an earlier period than has heretofore l>een usually practised.” Treatment hy Electrolysis.—Dr. Tlilton Faggc and jMr. Durham employed electrolysis in the treatment of eight cases of hydatid tumor of the liver.® Two needles were connected with the negative pole of a modified Daniell’s battery often cells; the positive pole was connected with a moistened sponge. The needles were introduced into the cyst, and the sponge was a})plied to the surface of the abdomen. The current was continued for a period varying from ten to twenty minutes at a time; and the treatment was continued over a period varying from two to four or five weeks. Besides the eight cases in Pagge’s list, one other, recorded by Playfair,® should be added; all the nine patients did well, and recovered ; but it must be added, tliat the tumors were small, and in young sulijects. Dr. Pagge suggested two alteiTiatives of the ‘modus operamdi of electrolysis, (1) leakage from the cyst into the peritoneum or elsewhere, (2) the direct action of the electrolytic current. In four out of the eight cases observed liy Dr. F'agge, fiuid did leak into the peritoneal cavity, and once it leaked into the pleura. In two, if not in three cases, leakage, it is })i’esumcd, did not occur. The operation was genei’ally followed liy slight febrile symptoms and some pain; but these symptoms usually passed away in a few days. It has been already stated that hydatids may occui- in any part or organ of the body; and may originate in, invade, or encroach U])on, any abdominal organ. Wherever one exists it will indicate its presence, if at all, first by the occurrence of swelling in the region of the abdomen occupied by the organ • Diet, fie Med. et Chir. Prat., Art. Aceplialocystes. * Rev. Med., tome iii. p. 43(3. 1827. ® .lourn. Helfdom., tome i. p. 417. 1830. ‘ Op. cit., p. 244. ® Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. liv. 6 Ibid.