771 LARYNGECTOMY, that the condition of some of his tracheotomized patients, in hopeless cases, was much more deplorable than the condition of those suljjected to laryn- crectomj, who were, at least, entirely free from pain. It is likewise contended by some oljservers that, as tracheotomy does not relieve the dysphagia, this symptom is an additional reason for preferring the risks of laryngectomy. It is hard to comprehend the necessity for sacriticing the whole of the larynx in cases of polypi or of papillomata, however extensive, or in cases of perichondritis and of cicatricial stenosis, whether syphilitic or otherwise, diseases for the treatment of which surgery offers resources less extreme. It seems to me that the indication for complete laryngectomy should be restricted to sarcoma, to intrinsic carcinoma, and possibly to circumscribed extrinsic carcinoma, which has not extended to adjacent structures or involved the lymphatic glands. In diffuse carcinoma extending beyond the larynx, it seems to he contra-indicated. Laryngeal carcinoma is often so long strictly intrinsic, and extrinsic carcinoma often so long unassociated with lymphatic involvement, that early operation certainly offers considerable hope of its complete removal, the more that recurrence after extirpation of the larynx has been found more fref|uent in the lymphatic glands than in the tissues from which the exsected structures have been severed. But luasmuch as an early laryngectomy may directly rob the patient of an important remnant of life, the responsibility of the surgeon who undertakes the operation is propor- tionately great. When the disease is strictly unilateral, the indication is for unilateral laryn- gectomy—an operation much less serious than excision of tlie entire larynx, and apparently no more likely to be followed by recurrence, whether m the retained half of the larynx, in adjoining tissues, or in the lymphatic glands. The Operative Procedure.—Undoubtedly always a severe operation, the severity of laryngectomy varies with the physical condition of tlie patient, the extent of the disease, the circumstances under which the ojieration is per- formed, and the complications which may follow. The operation is not neces- sarily a bloody one. While Bottini' has shown that a bloodless operation is practicable with the electric cautery, Langenheclff has proved that not only may the entire larynx lie i-enioved by ordinary surgical methods without much bleeding, provided that the precaution he taken to secure every vessel before it is divided, Init, in addition, the submaxillary glands from both sides, the hyoid hone and portions of the tongue, the pharynx, and the oesopliagus. Thus, in the instance referred to, forty-one ligatures were em- ployed, securing, among other vessels, lioth external carotids, the linguals, the external maxillaries, tlie superioi’ thyroids, and the superior and inferior laryngeals. Whether the removal of the larynx is to he effected from above doivn- wards, or in the reverse direction, will depend upon the com])lications of the case, and on the preferences of the surgeon. Removal from above downward is the more tedious. To some operators it appears to he tlie safer plan, inas- much as it effectively avoids all risk of escape of blood and other matters into the tracheal extremity of a severed windpipe during the important stages of the dissection ; for the severance of the larynx from the trachea is tlie last step of the procedure instead of the first, and may lie delayed until all hemor- rhage is under control. The opposite plan is said to possess the advantage, that, the trachea lieing taken care of in the first instance, the operator can proceed more rapidly, and be relieved from all anxiety as to the entrance of 1 Annales des Maladies de I’Oreille, du Larynx, etc., 1 Juillet, 1878, p. 182. * Berlin, klin. Wouli., No. 33, 1875, S. 453.