DISEASES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. 373 Fraenkel cites instances in support of the view of its direct contagions influ- ence, wliile, on the other hand, various experimenters have failed in all attempts at inoculation of the healthy mucous membrane with tire secretions of coiyza. (Friedreich.) I believe it fair to assume, in tlie light of our pres- ent knowledge, and reasoning from analogy, that the secretions of an acute coryza are, at certain times and under certain conditions, contagious; and clinical experience endorses this view. These conditions depend mainly upon the peculiar susceptibility of the subject to its influence, and upon the stage of the nasal disease in which the secretions are taken, but in no event, is the occurrence a common one; the affection, in the great majority of cases, runs its usual course in its subject without being communicated to others, and the question is of [)ractical interest only in view of its possible bearing upon prophlyactic measures. The symptoms of an acute coryza are well known, and vary within consi- derable limits, from tlie mere consciousness of local uneasiness to severe pain, fever, and marked constitutional disturbance. The preliminaiy chill, or at least chilly sensation, is usually followed by a slight rise of temperature and increase of the pulse, with muscular pain and a general feeling of malaise. The local irritation and sensation of dryness in the nose are coincident with the stage of congestion and absence of secretion which mai’k the begin- ning of any acute inflammation of a mucous membrane, and lead to constant sneezing; this lasts Imt an hour or two, and is followed by an acrid, watery discharge from the nasal passages, which arc now occluded by the swelling and engorgement of tlie tissues, so that oral respiration becomes a necessity, the senses of smell and taste are both blunted, and the voice becomes nasal in character. This occlusion is variable—the inter-vascular communications between the nasal passages being free and numerous through the peculiar erec- tile tissue, with largo vein cavities, demonstrated by Tvohlrausch and Bigelow to lie between the periosteum and the mucous membrane covering the tur- binated bones, especially the inferior—and gravitation of blood and serum from one nasal passage to the other is often sudden and com]flete. The glandular structures being abnormally stimulated, the discharge increases progressively in rpiautity and changes in character, being at first mucous, with epithelial elements alone ; and afterwards muco-purulent, with a few red blood corpuscles; or even purulent, and loaded with young cells. Meanwhile the inflammatory process extends, involving, perhaps, the frontal sinuses, when it gives rise to severe frontal headache; or the lachrymal duct, with resultant sensitiveness of the congested conjunctivai to l)oth pressure and light; or the Eustachian tubes, with ]»ain in the ears, ringing noises, and duhiess of hear- ing. If it extend to the phaiynx, the patient Avill complain of sore tliroat, a usual com[)lication ; while if it involve the larynx and tracliea, sym]>toms referalile to those regions, with increase of the febrile movement, will bo present. Tlie irritating qualities of the saline discharge, containing ammonia in the earlier stages, inflame and excoriate the margins of the nostrils ami the upper lip; while the later discharge, muco-purulent, and greenish or yellowish in color, gives rise to an unpleasant odor, and not infrequently desiccates into crusts which are removed with difficulty. Fibrin is occasionally secreted, especially in infantile coryza, and in the form met with in exanthematous fevers, and forms a membranous layer over the turbinated bones, resembling, and requiring to lie distinguished from, the iiseudo-membrane of diphtheria (see page 305). The attack lasts from three days to one week or more, in severe cases, and fresh attacks sometimes supervene when the first undergo resolution. Alternation from one nasal })assage to the other may occur; and