938 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. upon the subject of eiiterorraphy, and particularly active as to the methods best adapted for the removal of portions of the intestines and stomach, a new Eneyclopiedia of Surgery would be imjierfect if it did not contain a historical sketch of the use of sutures in closing wounds of the bowels. 'Whilst I was engaged in acquiring information on this subject for the present article, I turned, in the course of my researches, to the Fothergillian prize essay of Mr. Alfred Poland, one of my former teachers at Guy’s Hospital. Here I found, besides other valuable information, so complete and methodical a summary of the several methods which Imve been adopted from time to time, that I make no apology for giving l\Ir. Poland’s account in full—more espe- cially as this admirable manuscript essay is not within the reach of foreign or provincial English readers. If, in addition to this account, the reader will consult the interesting and very full historical survey of eiiterorraphy in Hr. Otis’s Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, he will learn nearly, if not quite, all that has been done in this field of surgery, a field which has been actively worked in since the thirteenth century. Mr. Poland writes;— In enumerating the different kinds of suture, we shall advert to them in the order in which they have been recommended, according to the extent of the wound of the bowel. The following table will sufficiently indicate the plan adopted :— 1. Partial wounds. 2. Complete, or nearly through the whole tube. I. Interrupted, noose, or loop suture. 2. Uninterrupted, glover’s, or continued suture. 1. Upon a foreign body. 2. With invagination. 3. With contact of serous surfaces. f a. Method of Palfyn. I b. “ “ Ledran. •{ 0. “ “ Reybard. d. “ ‘‘ Jobert. [ e. Common interrupted suture. f a. The ordinary method of glover’s suture. I b. Method of Reybard. I c. “ “ Bertrandi, or suture a poi/hs passes, i d. Spiral suture. a. Method des quatres maitres. b. “ of Sabatier. ■ c. “ “ Du verger. d. “ “ Jobert. e. Other varieties. ( a. Method of Ramdohr, and varieties. I b. “ “ Reybard. f a. Metlmd of Jobert. b. “ “ Denans. ■ c. “ “ Lembert. d. “ “ Gely. . e. Other varieties and modifications. Partial wounds, whether they are longitudinal or transverse, if exceedingly small, may be treated by the method adopted by Sir A. Cooper and others. The ope- rator includes the aperture of the intestine in the forceps, and ap[)lies a silk ligature, to be carried beneath the point of tlie instrument, firmly tied upon tlie gut, and the ends cut off close to the intestine. This proceeding, however, will not apply to wounds larger than a simple puncture ; hence, should a suture be determined upon, we must adopt one of two proceedings, viz., the internqited or the iminternipted suture. I. The Interrupted, Noose, or Loop Suture—a. Method of Palfyn (1710— 172G). Palfyn passed a loop of thread through the middle of the ivouhd of the intes- tine, fixing the threads to the integument by i)laster, and thus approximated the bowel to the external ivound. He brouglit the tlu-eads out through the wound, and did not stitch the gut to the integument, as stated by some authors.^ b. Method of Ledran (1742)—Ledran took as many threads as he wished to make 1 Lapeyronie’s method slightly differed from Palfyn’s, in that he inserted the thread through the mesenteric attachment, and stitched the bowel to the margin of the external wound. (]M6m. de I’Acad. de Chir., t. i. p. 337. 1743.) Larrey successfully employed this method in a case of complete division of the ileum by a musket-ball. (Mem. de Chir. Mil. et Camp., t. ii. p. 160.)