INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE ABDOMEN. 1084 Symptoms.—When the dilatation is insufficient to give rise to a tumor, there are no symptoms of hydronephrosis ; it is simply a silent complica- tion or consequence of some other condition to which the attention of the physician or surgeon is not called by any signs. When a tumor is formed, however, it has to be dealt with as a disease in itself, especially when it threatens to damage neighboring organs by its pressure, or to destroy life by bursting into the peritoneum. The tumor is sometimes irregular or lobu- lated, and frequently fluctuates ; if it intei’mits, its subsidence is followed by tlie discharge per urethram of a large quantity of urine of low speciflc gravity, or having pus, or mucus, or blood in it. By its size it may cause much pain, and may interfere considerably^ with the action of the colon, thus inducing constipation. If it arises from some innocent and painless cause, its development will be unattended by any constitutional or local disturb- ance ; but if from some painful cause, such as a renal calculus, the attacks of colic and other symptoms incidental to the particular cause will occur before the tumor makes its appearance. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of hydionephrosis from pyonephrosis and perinephric abscess is often excessively difficult, and in some cases cannot be made. Perinephric abscess causes fulness in the loin, and tends to spread upwards and downwards, but does not usually present a circumscribed, more or less movable tumor, coming forward in the abdomen, and felt as the patient lies on his back to be passing beyond the median line in front. In perine- phric abscess there is often oedema and redness of the skin of the loin; in hydronephrosis this is very rarely the ease, and only when the tumor has reached a great size. In hydronephrosis, redness and superficial fluctuation are sometimes felt at a spot on the side or towards the front of the belly ; in perinephric abscess the matter may burst at or below Poupart’s ligament, but is not likely to point higher up in front. Pyonephrosis is indistinguishable from hydro- nephrosis, except when there liave been rigors, feverishness, or other indica- tions of suppuration, which in many cases of pyonephrosis are wanting. Hydronephrosis may suppurate quietly and thus become transformed into pyonephrosis. Hydatid cysts, serous cysts of the liver, spleen, or kidney, and ovarian cysts, are to be distinguisbed by the clinical history of the cases; and ovarian tumors, as a rule, can be excluded by the direction of the growth of the tumor, by the relation of the colon—which is behind an ovarian, but in front of a renal tumor—and by the negative results of a vaginal and rectal examination. In ovarian cysts, the diagnosis will generally be assisted by some history of catamenial pain or irregularity; in renal tumors, by some urinary interference or change, at some period or other shortly preceding the formation of the tumor. A caution is requisite respecting the relation of the colon; occa- sionally, and especially when the tumor grows to a great size, the colon gets behind the bulk of the renal tumor ; as a rare occurrence, a portion of intes- tine has been found in front of an ovarian tumor. The p>rognosis of hydronephrosis depends much upon the cause of disten- sion, but chiefly upon whether one or both organs are involved. If only one kidney is affected, and the other does duty for both, life may be prolonged, provided that relief from the distension of tlie tumor is afforded. Otherwise, death will result from the effect of pressure on neighboring organs, from rupture into the peritoneum, or from suppression of urine, or urfemia. In most cases where the distension affects both kidneys, the cause of the hydro- ne[»hrosis kills the patient. Treatment.—Aspiration should be employed when there is any reasonable ground for believing that the cause of obstruction is temporary, and that