521 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE PALATE. aftbrti the most satisfactory means of treating cases of wide congenital cleft of the palate. It consists entirely of hard rubber, the posterior part being much thicker than the hard palate, to which it is attached by a narrow stem; this posterior part, which is triangular in shape, is set at an angle so as to pass above the soft palate and till up the cavity of the pharynx, the edges of the soft palate coming in contact with it in deglutition and phonation. Mr. Coles has found that the tone of the voice is improved by substituting gold in the hard palate. Having induced a highly intelligent medical student to try one of these palates, after having worn one of Kingsley’s, he informs me tliat he has no hesitation in giving the preference to the former, whilst I am able to testify personally to the improvement of his voice. Whatever method of treating a congenital cleft palate may be adopted, the improvement in the voice must be gained, to a great degree, by education. A patient has in the first few years of life acquired vicious habits of speak- ing, and particularly a guttural and nasal tone, which requires great care to overcome. It is essential tliat he sliould lie taught to speak with his lips, and to throw the voice forward. ACith proper tcacliing and diligent prac- tice, he will in time speak as distinctly as the majority of healthy persons. Ulceration of the palate is usually of syphilitic origin. AIucous patches with superficial ulceration, more or less circular in shape, are not infrequent in the secondaiy stage of syphilis, but the Avell-niarked ragged ulcers, with a yellow base, are found either in tertiary or congenital syphilis. The mu- cous patches yield readily to ordinary anti-syphilitic treatment, but the tertiary ulcers are apt to perforate the soft }»alate and eat into the uvula, or may destroy the muco-periosteum of the hard palate, and lead to exfoliation of bone. The existence of so-called strumous Oi* tubercular ulceration of the palate may be doubted, since in these cases a rapid cure is effected by the administration of the iodides in full doses, exactly as in cases of recognized, tertiary syphilis. The adhesions of the palate to the pharynx which are apt to follow extensive tertiary idceration arc best let alone, since any sur- gical interference is not likely to improve the intonation. AVlien the soft palate is destroyed, or the hard perforated, an obturator may be worn with advantage. Kodes of the hard palate are not infrequent in constitutional syphilis, and in the recent state are apt to be confounded with abscess. An abscess always extends from the alveolus, and usually that of the incisor teeth, which will be found to be painful and loosened; and on applying pressure to the swelling, pus exudes by the sides of the teeth. A node, on the other hand, is less rapid in formation than an abscess, and is isolated from the alveolus, the teeth lieing tirm, although possibly tender. The distinction between the two affections is important, since the early incision, which is essential in the cure of the abscess, in order to prevent necrosis, will in all probability lead to this very result if the node be incised, whereas the latter will rapidly subside under the free administration of the iodides. Kecrosis of the hard palate, when it occurs, is followed by very slow exfo- liation, and nothing can be done to hasten the process. The use of detergent mouth-washes to keep down the fetor, and the removal of sequestra as they form, constitute the whole treatment. Fortunately, exposed portions of the hard palate do not always necrose, but have a singular power of recuperation, due doubtless to the abundant vascular supply to both surfaces of the jialatc. In order tliat bare bone may thus recover, it is essential, however, that it should be protected from the con-