274 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. or after. It should not exceed two or tliree mm. in width, and this should be equal tliroughout its length, excepting at each end where the incision runs to a point. The quantity of skin removed should depend on the surplus present, but it is often very disastrous and unnecessary to remove much. If marked phimosis is present, a canthoplasty at the outer angle is to be made at the same time. A great change in the position of the lids ma}' be secured in this way. If the incurvation and trichiasis are slight, a canthoplasty alone may be sufficient to relieve the inversion. In all cases of troughing of the tarnus, and especially where very little if any skin can be spared, I have been much pleased with the operation of Dr. Green, of St. Louis. He everts the upper lid, holds it tirmly, and cuts through the conjunctiva and the tarsus in the whole length of the latter. He keeps the incision two mm. from the line of orifices of the ^leibomian ducts, and uses a scalpel. A Graefe’s knife, held per- pendicularly to the tarsus, plunged through, and pushed along carefully, does equally well. If desired, the incision can be prolonged at either end with stout scissors. The ring forceps are not necessary. The effect produced by this inci- sion is to separate the entire margin of the lid from the body of the tai-sus, and thus to allow it to be easily everted, and to be held without strain in its new position. A strip of skin from one and a half to two mm. in width, is ex- cised, its lower boundary being about one and a half mm. from the line of eyelashes. The sutures are applied with a curved needle in the usual holder. The needle is entered through the conjunctiva, a little within the rows of lashes, and brought out through the wound of the skin, close to its lower edge. Drawn through far enough, it is again passed under the upper lip of the incision, deep enough to graze the tarsus, and to come out through the skin about ten mm. above tlie point of entrance. AVhen the suture is knotted, the cutaneous wound is closed, and the loosened margin of the lid is at the same time everted and brought into proper position. Three sutures are usually enough, and they should be removed in twenty-four hours. Healing is prompt, and the gaping tarsus on the conjunctival side heals by gi-anulation, leaving no rigid cicatrix. Very little integument need be sacrificed. 1 have seldom resorted to this operation before the trachomatous cicatriza- tion has been completed, but it may be done during the active progress of the disease, to hasten recovery. If necessaiy, it may be repeated. AVhere large losses of skin from other previous oi>erations forbid further sacrifice, a simj^e incision in the skin, and some loosening of the upper lip of the wound, with careful placing of sutures, will suffice. In extreme cases of phimosis, cantho- jilasty may be combined with this operation. If the tarsus is much hypertro- phied, hard, and })rominent under the skin, I remove a longitudinal, wedge- shaped portion through an incision of the skin, as above described. IVith one or the other of these operations, all cases of entropium, incurvation, trichiasis, and distichiasis, can be relieved. The orbicular fibres are preserved in both, and the circulation of the lid margin is not at all seriously impaired. If the free ends of the eyelashes, from any cause, touch the cornea, they are popularly called wild and must be removed b}' surgical interference. If they stand free, however, they are harmless ornaments, and should be respected. Spasmodic entropium, occurring usually in old peojilewith relaxed integument, is a serious trouble, and must be obviated. This tendency is increased b}’ bandaging the eyes, as after cataract extractions and other operations. The rcficx infiuence of the displaced lid la'ompts to still greater contraction and firmer inversion. The annoyance is extreme, and greatly in- creases the risks of such ojicrations on the eyeball. If possible, the roller should be removed in all such cases, and the eyes kept open. Dy holding the lower lid down, and keeping the eye open, the inveivion is easily overcome. Collodion applied to the skin, and allowed to dry, will often suffice to keep