INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 710 tioii be repeated at intervals of a few minutes. This failing, aspiration should be made with the catheter and syringe. If the obstruction resist all these measures, the outer caiiula should be removed, when the membrane will probably be coughed through the unobstructed orifice. The removal of the eanula, especially during the first twenty-four hours, necessitates a skilled hand for its re-introduction. When it cannot be replaced, or when its jjresence prevents expulsion of obstructing products, some other method of keeping the orifice open must be employed. Here the dilating retractor of Golding- Bird will again be of great use. Hooks may be improvised from hair-pins, and may be held in position by tapes passing around the neck. Skilled judg- ment is necessary for the recognition of these important points, and for their proper management. An officious nurse may interfere unnecessarily on the one hand, and do injury on the other. The obstructed character of the respiration is the guide for interference. Under all circumstances, the con- dition of the inner eanula should be observed every two or three hours, to clear it of any viscid secretions that may have adhered to it; and these should be carefidly examined in water, so as to detect membranes, which will float out in flat pieces, their amount indicating how the case is progressing. Changing the Canula.—At the end of twenty-four hours, or thereabouts, the canula, soiled as it is with blood and sputum, should be removed for cleansing, and be replaced by a clean one. It is best to do this bj^ daylight, and with the child in the same position as when it was inserted. This removal is followed by cough and clischarge of morbid products. The tube being removed, the parts are to be carefully inspected and carefully cleansed. If everything has gone on well, the tube, if of silvei’, though soiled by mucus, pus, and blood, will not be tarnished. If blackened, mortification is indi- cated at the corresponding point of the wound. If the tissues are healthy, the parts will be normal in color, and soft; and the edges of the wound will be everted. Sometimes the parts will be so pliable as to turn inward and occlude the tracheal incision. Then a dilator should be introduced to keep the wound open until a tube is inserted. Meanwhile, if indicated, search may be made for false membrane. The canula should be changed once a day, and the wound dressed if need be. When air begins to pass by the natural passage, as tested by covering the external wound with the finger-tip', the tube may be left out for a few minutes at each dressing, to be replaced immediately should respiration become embarrassed. From day to day the tube may be dispensed with for increasing intervals, until it is finally put aside. One of the most favorable indications for this procedure is expectoration by the mouth. Definitive Removal of the Canula.—Usually practicable from the fifth to the ninth day, this may not be feasible for many weeks. Some series of obser- vations are remarkable. Thus in a scries of fifteen successful cases recorded by Max Muller,Bhe tube was not definitively removed in thirteen until the 13th, 15th, 25th, 27th, 44th, 45th, 51st,69th, 70th, 105th, 112th, 120th, and 203d days respectively. In a series of eighteen cases recorded l>y Steiner,^ the tube was removed on the 10th day in two cases, on the 17th in 1, 20th in 3, 21st in 2, 25th in 2, 28th in 4,30th in 1, 35th in l,and in the remaining cases not until the end of fifteen months. Sanne® gives a series of 108 cases, in 65 of which the tube was removed before the 9th day, and in one instance at the end of the first day; from the 9th to the 25th in 37 cases; from the 30th to the 45th, in 5 cases; and in 1 case on the 126th day. 1 Archiv I'iir klin. Cliirurgie, S. 448. 1871. 2 .Tahrbuck der Kindei'lieilkuude, No. 1. 1S68. 2 Etude sur le croup apres la tracheotomie. Paris, 1869.