84 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. The symptoms of brain-pressure being so marked, immediately upon my arrival I reflected the Hap covering the trepliine-hole, and found it tilled by the tensely stretched dura mater, which, however, pulsated strongly at every portion. A feeling as of fluctuation was conveyed to the linger. While examining the wound, a minute drop of pus, not larger than a small pin-head, oozed up through the dura mater. Supposing that the cause of th '’’ouble was reached, I made a small incision through that membrane, but, to my disappointment, nothing was evacuated. Further manipulation brought about half a minim of pus, which was thought to come, perhaps, from a diffused layer of pus in the arachnoid cavity. The coma rapidly deepening, an aspirator-needle connected with a vacuum was passed in at least three, if not four different spots, to the depth of two-thirds of an inch, but with no result. Feeling convinced that pus was present, and that from the symptoms it was compressing the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions, I pro- ceeded to set a large crowned-trephine in front of, and below the first opening, which was slightly behind the fissure of Rolando, according to my calculations. Before I had more than half divided the skull, both pulse and respiration ceased, and the patient was thought to be dead, by both my colleague Dr. Morris J. Lewis, the three resident physicians, and myself. After laying the instruments aside for a moment, I determined to complete the operation. Ra[)idly dividing the bone, I found an apparently normal dura mater, which I incised, but found nothing. While Dr. Lewis and I were examining the exposed membrane, a large drop of pus oozed up through one of the aspirator-punctures. I at once plunged a knife into the brain-substance, and evacu- ated from one to two duidounces of greenish pus. The patient appeared to be quite dead, but placing my liand over his heart I thought, but was not sure, that I felt a feeble cardiac pulsation. Dr. Lewis immediately seized the patient’s arms and began to practise artificial respiration. In about half a minute his skilful efforts were re- warded by a gasp, and then the dia])hragm feebly contracted. I then sent for the battery, which was effectively used by Dr. J. K. Mitchell; one-hundredth of a grain of atropia was subcutaneously injected; sinapisms were a[>plied over the heart; a turpen- tine enema was administered; warmth was applied to the feet, etc. After some twenty minutes’ vigorous treatment, the intercostal muscles commenced to act slightly, but, on the cessation of efforts at artificial respiration, in a few moments the patient ceased to breathe. Renewed efforts resuscitated him. In two hours’ time he was semi-con- scious, and could feebly move his riglit arm. All pulse and respiration had ceased, at the lowest computation, for fully three minutes. March 31, temp. 974° F. ; pulse 120. Patient much better, and conscious. An ophthalmoscopic examination was made to-day by Dr. Ileyl. Left pupil a little sluggish in its reaction to light. Right pupil normal. Margin of each papilla absent. Retinal veins of large calibre, tortuous, and filled with very black blood. Arteries, if of abnormal calibre, are slightly diminished in size on the retina, but of normal calibre on the disks. The optic disks do not look swollen, as is commonly the case in papillitis, but as if they possessed the same level as adjoining parts of the retina. The refraction of the papilla and surrounding parts of the retina Avere not obtained. It is also noted that at the time of examination the patient’s face is dusky, but that his mind seems clear. The diagnosis is double papillitis in the stage of retrogression. A hernia cerebri the size of a walnut is extruding from the wound in the dura. The abscess discharges freely. The patient does not complain of headache. April 1, temp. 102° ; pulse 110. Erysipelas again on forehead, extending over face. The hernia cerebri is now about the size of an egg. Patient is losing strength. April 2, temp. 103° F.; pulse 112. Condition worse, hernia breaking down and coming away with poultices. April 4. The patient died this morning at 6.30 A. M. He remained conscious until three hours before his death. Autopsy About tlie position of injury, the dura mater was bound down to the brain by inflammatory adhesions. The left parietal lobe was an enormous abscess-cavity. The abscess was superficial, destroying the greater portion of the upper part of the left hemisphere. The right hemisphere moist; the dura congested. Old pleuritic adhe- sions were found in the chest; the lungs were affected with hypostatic congestion, but otherwise normal.