316 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. peculiar color is due to the reflection of liglit from the very red mucous membrane of the promontory. If air still remain in the drum cavity, the tint reflected will be reddish or purple, but if a yellowish, translucent serum he present in the cavity, it will he likely to impart a greenish hue to the color. In these cases, we may confldently assume that the Eustachian tube partici- pates very decidedly in the pathological changes, and that its permeability to air is, for the time, suspended. If the tympanum contains partly air and partly fluid, we may see the outlines of bubbles through the membrana tympani, br a delicate line corresponding to the boundary of the fluid. Our attention should next be directed to the condition of the naso-pharyn- geal region. From tlie patient’s own statements, we shall probably already have learned that the aural symptoms developed during an attack of “ cold in the head,” and on direct examination of the pharyngeal mucous membrane, we shall be likely still to And evidences of the disease in this locality, viz., redness, swelling, and perhaps increased secretion. If such evidences, how- ever, are lacking, we must not allow ourselves to draw the inference that the region which is situated higher up, and which we cannot see unless Ave employ a rhinoscopic mirror, is likewise free from all inflammatory irritation. In fact, we may with great positiveness assume the very reverse of this, and that too, oftentimes, despite the patient’s assurance that all symptoms of the “ cold in the head” have entirely disappeared. This a point on which I desire to lay particular stress, for it is one that is veiy often overlooked, and yet it is the very one upon which the successful treatment of this class of cases hinges. In well-marked cases, the course of the disease ivill cover a period of from two to flve or six weeks. Under unfavorable conditions the irritation may persist for months, and may resist our best eflbrts to get the mastery over it. A complete or apparently complete return of the middle ear to a normal condition, may confidently be looked for in the great majority of cases. It is only in a few of them that the acute attack proves to be the beginning of the chronic form of the disease, with its attendant symptoms—permanent diminution of the power of heai’ing and distressing subjectAe noises. Treatment.—As I have already said, the most important feature, in the treatment of this disease, is to try and restore tlie naso-pharyngeal mucous membrane to a healthy condition. In my hands, nitrate of silver has proved to be the remedy by far the most eflective in accomplishing this object. It is certainly a disagreeable remedjg even when properly managed; and when applied in a careless manner, it is cpiite sure to produce nausea or headache, or at least a great increase, for a short time, in the amount of mucus secreted by the glands of the naso-pharyngeal region. If we are careful, howeA^er, to employ only as much of the solution as Avill suffice to thoroughly moisten the mucous membrane to Avhich it is applied, Ave shall rarely meet Avith aii}^ of the disagreeable symptoms mentioned. If Ave are careless about taking these precautions, and introduce too large a cpiantity of the solution, the excess Avill find its Avay into the larynx, into the nasal passages, or doAvn upon the upper surface of the roof of the toijgue, and thus give rise to a great deal of unnecessary discomfort, if not to symptoms of a decidedly alarming character, such as spasm of the glottis. A rod, probe, or Avire, bent near one end at a right angle, and armed Avith a mop of absorlient cotton, Avill be found a most useful instrument for the purpose of applying the remedial solution to the naso-pharyngeal cavity. The strength of the solution must Auary accord- ing to the age of the patient, the activity of the catarrhal inflammation, and other minor circumstances. In a young child I usually begin Avith a ten- grain solution, and soon increase to one containing tAventy, thirty, or even forty grains of nitrate of silver, in a fluidounce of Avater. In an adult I