734 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. by intra-laryngeal procedure, operations were successfully performed in tins way by Ivoderick, of Brussels, in 1750, and by Horace Green, of Xew York, in 1845. I)r. Green,^ in fact, performed Voltolini’s opei’ation, but attributed too much of the good result to the solution of silver-nitrate in which be was accustomed to dip the sponge. Ireatment hy Direct Access.—While the great majority of intra-laryngeal neoplasms are so accessible to treatment by waj" of the mouth as to render an external operation unjustifiable, the location and magnitude of a growth, the timidity and intractability of the patient, or the limited resources of the surgeon, may render an intra-laryngeal procedure hazardous and impracticable. Under such circumstances, safety may often be secured b}'’ performing a pro- phylactic tracheotomy first, and trying intra-laryngeal measures afterwards. Urgency for interference, and assurance that the tissues shall be thoroughly cleared of morbid growth, sometimes create an imperative demand for ex- ternal access to the neoplasms. Several operations are practised for this purpose, the choice depending on individual requirements. These operations include section of the middle ci’ico-thyroid ligament; section of the thyroid cartilage in the middle line; section of both of these structures; section of the entire larynx; section of the trachea ; and section of the thyro-hyoid membrane. Section of the cricoid cartilage should be avoided if practicable, on account of its liability, slight as this may be, to be followed by necrosis. Section of the thyroid cartilage is to be avoided if other means will furnish ample access to the neoplasm, because the cicatricial agglutination of the anterior portions of the vocal bands cannot be effectively prevented. The resulting shortening of their vibrating portions impairs the voice, the shrill accentuation of which subjects a sensitive female to continuous mortification. Section of the middle crico-thju’oid ligament, meso-chondric laryngotomy, the easiest operation of the series, involves the least risk, leaves an insignifi- cant cicatrix, and does not injure the voice. It offers sufficient access to small growths beneath the vocal bands, or upon their edges, inaccessible to intra-laryngeal procedure; and is indicated in individuals whose means of livelihood depend upon the integrity of the voice, or in others who are ren- dered irritable by the presence of groAvths which impair the voice,'even though the function of respiration remain undisturbed. The growth once exposed, may be removed with delicate scissors, forceps, or electric cautery. In the adult, the external wound is usually amply capacious for the temporary retention of a canula when this is advisable. Section of the thyroid cartilage, thyrotomythyroidotomythyroid laryngotomy, is indicated to remove extensive intra-laryngeal neoplasms which are inaccessi- ble to thorough laryngoscopic operation, or to the simpler external procedures. Its liability to impair the voice irretrievably, renders it questionable, at times, whether the more conservative operation of sub-hyoid pharyngotomy would not lie the preferable procedure, especially in the case of children, and when the growth is located very high up. Should section of the thyroid cartilage expose the interior sufficiently, the crico-thyroid ligament should be spared. Should section of both these structures prove insufficient, it will become necessary to divide the cricoid cartilage in addition. If sufficient access can be secured witliout dividing the thyroid cartilage quite up to the thyro-hyoid membrane, a little strip may be spared, in order to secure such cicatrization as may better ensure retention of tlie vocal bauds in their original planes, and thus cause less impairment of the voice. The operation, whatever its extent, is usually practised after a preliminary traclieotomy, whether at the time or a ' On tlie Surgical Treatment of Polypi of the Larynx and ffldema of the Glottis, p. 71. New York, 1852.