392 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. probe. This cleansing process thoronghly accomplished, the state of cleanli- ness thus obtained must he maintained by the repetition of the syringing, by either surgeon or patient, as often as may he necessary—certainly, at the out- set, each day. After each cleansing, powdered iodoform may he insufflated into both nostrils, and over all ulcerated surfaces, by means of Smith’s insuf- flating tube or nasal powder-blower. Some prefer the immediate inhala- tion of the vapor of iodine, or the insufflation of Trousseau’s mercurial powder. The first plan I believe to he the best. The importance of removing as soon as practicable all necrosed hone will he apparent. It acts as a foreign body, keeps up ulceration, and prevents reparative action. Its extraction by-means, usually, of the ])olypus forceps, is a simple matter, and is governed by ordi- nary surgical rules. Goodwillie has reported good results in his treatment of sucii eases by grinding or cuttting away all dead hone with the burr of the dental engine, introduced through the nasal opening, and smoothing away all ragged and irregular surfaces that are left. The healing process and the duration of the disease are unquestionably considerably shortened by such a procedure. Ulcerative Diseases of the Mucous Membrane of the Uose.—Aside from syphilis, which, as has been shown, may in its progress destroy not only the mucous membrane, hut the cartilaginous and bony parts of the nose as well, and give rise to all the symptoms of a marked ozajna, other ulcerative diseases of the nasal mucous membrane exist, the commoner ones compara- tively unimportant,, the more serious fortunately rare. Both classes still remain to be considered. Catarrhal ulcerations^ as they have been termed, but* which are in reality never more than slight erosions, are not the rule in uncomplicated nasal catarrh, and are but rarely met with. Contrary to general assertion, the eczematous form of nasal ulcer, if it may be so termed, is not uncommon in children, and may be associated with eczema of the upper lip and cheeks. The crusts frecpiently form so thickly about the nasal opening, that it is occluded by them as well as by the attendant swelling of the mucous membrane, and much nasal obstruction to breathing and discomfort are thus caused. A deep, painful/jssure at the lower part of the nasal meatus is furthermore no unusual result, if the condition be neglected. In either case, a constitutional course of treatment suited to the indications, and locally, complete cleanliness obtained by the daily injection of an alkaline solution, and the prevention of the re-accumulation of the crusts by the use of some unirritating ointment, such as that of the benzoated oxide of zinc, glycerine of borax,etc., will quickly relieve the aflection. It is as a rule not associated with an ozfenic smell, unless there be considerable and prolonged obstruction to the exit of the nasal secretions. Traumatic ulcers, the result of the mechan- ical irritation caused by the lodgment or pressure of foreign bodies within the nasal passages, quicklj" heal when the otfending substance is once removed. Ulceration of the nasal mucous membrane occurs among workmen in arsenic (paper-hangings), and in those who are exposed to the fumes of chromic acid. A more serious form of ulceration, extending even to the destruction of tlie cartilages and bones, oecasionalU occurs among the sequelae of certain fevers —measles, scarlatina, smallpox, and ty^thus—perhaps also in erysipelas and chronic pytemia. The local symptoms are marked and leave no room for question as to the diagnosis. Scorbutic ulcers of the nose may occur. Buzzard^ says that in confirmed scurvy, the slightest pressure sufflees to open the skin and to give rise to an ulcer, whose edges are hard, thick, and sbining, and the surface fungoid and bleeding, and that the lips and nostrils are 1 Reynolds’s System of Medicine, vol. i. p. 744.