347 DISEASES OF THE MASTOID PROCESS. indication—of the severity of the deeper-lying ulcerative inflammation. If we wait for the development of additional manifestations of this treacherous disease of the antrum, before taking active steps to check it, we may rest assured that in many cases we shall let slip the golden opportunity of saving the patient’s life. Cases are now and then encountered in which, by skilful interference, we may succeed in clearing the antrum of its foul contents, and in re-establish- ing a free outlet for the secretions that constantly accumulate in it, without boring through the outer portion of the mastoid process. As a rule, how- ever, this is not practicable, and in one case I am confident that my efforts to accomplish this difficult task only resulted in adding to the existing pain, and in hastening the fatal issue. In a general way, we may say that this form of mastoid disease admits of only one safe and effective plan of treat- ment, viz., that which consists in the establishment of a free channel of com- munication between the antrum and the outer air, through the mastoid pro- cess. The drill must be carried down actually to the antrum, and not merely to some still open pneumatic cell, if such should be found. In the preceding description of mastoid diseases, I have been careful to portray only uncomplicated, well-defined types of these affections. I will now recapitulate very briefly the main, distinctive features of these diseases, in the hope of rendering this branch of the subject still cleai’er. The first variety of the mastoid disease—subacute, condensing, mastoid osteitis—is really nothing but an accompaniment of an ordinary, chronic, puralent inflam- mation of the middle ear. It does not immediately threaten either the life or the health of the patient. It may not even cause pain, and under such circumstances we are not likely even to have our attention draAvn to the firct that the disease is present. In a few instances, the single symptom of pain becomes a prominent feature of the disease—so prominent, indeed, that we may be obliged to resort to the operation of boring into the mastoid bone in order to secure for the patient the desired relief. Here then we have a well-defined and very important type of mastoid disease. But its importance does not cease here. The chief result of this condensing osteitis is the oblite- ration of the pneumatic cells of the mastoid process. In ulcerative disease of the antrum, therefore, this condensing osteitis plays an important part. It commonly prevents the development of certain symptoms which are of great diagnostic value, and at the same time it inter[)Oses a solid wall of bone between the cavity of the antrum and the outer air, thereby greatly enhancing the serious character of an ulcerative inflammation of that cavity. The second and tiiird varieties differ in these respects : in the former, the pneumatic cells partici})ate in the inflammation of the antrum, while in the latter they play no part as a separate system of cavities, but a very important one as a wall of bone impenetrable to ulcerative processes. In acute, ilifluse, mastoid osteitis, we can generally limit our operative interference to the osta.b- lishment of a free communication between some of the pneumatic colls and the outer air; while in chronic, ulcerative inflammation of the mastoid antrum, we must carry the artificial canal down to this cavity. SlONIFICANCE OF CERTAIN PHENOMENA OCCASIONALLY MET WITH IN DISEASES OF THE Mastoid Process.—In addition to the symptoms described above, there are others which occur more oi' less frequently in affections of the mastoid process, and which should at least receive mention in these pages. Thus, for example, partial or complete paralysis of the facial nerve often, develops during the progress of either the second or the third form of mastoid disease. It is probably brought about liy the pressure of an etiusion