640 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. • Fischer, op. cit., Bd. iii. 1 Ahtli. 3 Lief. S. 99. voice from shrill to deep, has been noted hy Gibb,^ after cicatrization of an incised wound of a vocal band. Treatment.—The first indication is to avert impending sufibcation; the next, to restrain hemorrhage. Threatening apnoea, as intimated, may be due to nerve-lesions on the one hand—paralysis of the dilators of the glottis or spasm of its constrictors ; or on the other hand to mechanical lesions—hemorrhagic or other eti’usion, oedema, or occlusion by detached portions of tissue. In either instance immediate tracheotomy is demanded, to be followed by the institution of artificial respi- ration if recpiisite. This preliminary tracheotomy is much more likely to be necessary in punctured, lacerated, and gunshot wounds, than in simple incised and contused wounds. Treatment of Contused Wounds.—If respiration be impeded, laryngotomy should be promptly performed through the crico-thyroid membrane, and artificial respiration should be instituted through the opening. Respiration progressing satisfactorily, the next thing is to attend to any symptoms of collapse. This indication is best met by the injection of hot alcoholic fluids into the rectum, and subsecpiently into the stomach. It may be necessary to resort to hypodermic injections of stimulants, or even to intravenous injec- tions of ammonia. Treatment of Punctured, Incised, and Gmish.ot Wounds.—Impeded respira- tion having been relieved by withdrawal of blood and other liquids from the air-passages—by suction through a catheter, or by tracheotomy—and by removal of clots or detached tissues from occluding positions; hemorrhage having been restrained by ligature or compression ; and collapse having been removed by stimulating injections into the rectum, or by hypodermic or intravenous injections, as may be—the next indication is to closely scrutinize the locality of the wound so as to recognize its entire bearings, as far as prac- ticable, before tumefaction renders this impossible. If the wound penetrate into the mouth, careful search should be made for clots in order to remove them. The tongue should be carefully examined to see whether it be intact. Should it have been severed, the posterior portion should be carefully secured by ligature, so that it may not fall back upon the orifice of the larynx. Any other wounds of the tongue, or any wounds of the palatine folds, should be secured Avith sutures. If the Avoimd pass through the hyo-thyroid membrane, or the upper por- tion of the thyroid cartilage, the condition of the epiglottis should be deter- mined. Any detached pieces should be removed. Attempts at saving semi-severed portions by suture rarely succeed, and almost ahvaj's entail inflammatory oedema of the epiglottis. If prophylactic tracheotoni}" have been performed below the injury, attempts to save semi-detached portions of the epiglottis by suture are justifiable; but under other conditions they ma}' be imprudent. In all Avounds, AAdiether situated in this region of the air-pas- sage or in any other, search must be made in the Avound for any missing por- tions of cartilage or other tissue, that they may be promptly Avithdrawn. If the trachea have been divided, a tracheotomy-tube should be adjusted to the loAver segment. If merely punctured, or but slightly severed, the Avound should be enlarged, and a tracheotomy tube inserted, unless the opening be so insignificant as to cause neither serious hemorrhage nor empli3'Sema. Inflammatoiy or infiltratoiy tumefaction, or an}’ other sequel Avhich pro- duces sufficient encroachment on the calibre of the air-passage, Avill demand