38G DISEASES AXD INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. practically lies between the use of the galvano-caiitery, the curette, caustics, and, tinally, tbe forceps. Other means are advised, such as the use of the sharp spoon—a cutting edge fastened to a linger-guard—the Jarvis wire- snare, modified for use in the pharyngeal vault, and the like; hut they do not possess the advantages of the first-named instruments and methods. The use of the curette is indicated when the hj’pertropliy of the tissues ex- tends broadly in the shape of small nodulated masses over the entire pha- ryngeal vault. Caustics are only to he employed wlien the hypertrophy is of limited extent, and, as has been stated, chromic acid is preferred. Forceps, curved at a suitable angle to he passed behind the velum, and furnished with cutting blades, are extensively employed by foreign operators. I have of late used them exclusively in many operations, and have been well satisfied with the results. Atrophic ISTasal Catarrh.—As the result of the process of intra-nasal hypertrophy descidhed in the last section—in certain cases following it, when it has lasted some time, or, more rarelj^, occurring early in tlie disease, before hy])ertropliy is far advanced—atrojohic^ or as it is sometimes termed,rhi- nitis^ is developed. It is much rarer than tlie preceding varieties. Its etiology is as follows. The deposition of newly developed connective and elastic tissue in the deeper layers of the nasal mucous membrane, in hj’pertrophic rhinitis, leads to two results; first, Ijy its mere presence and amount, it may press upon, cause atrophy of, and destroy function in, the glands and follicles Avhich thicklj^ stud the mucous membrane; this may occur early in the dis- ease, but Avlicn seen at a later period, as commojdy is the case, the process of atrophy in the glands and other tissues has a ditferent explanation. I believe it to he then due to tlie contraction Avhich takes place in the elastic and con- nective tissue above alluded to. The more firndy this becomes organized in the course of time, the more firmly it compresses and consequently destroys the function of the secreting glands and follicles, mainly and primarily the serous glands, and with them the mucons membrane in which they lie, and the submucous structures undergo atro])hy, and even more. If the process he long continued, the effect of this constant pressure, aided by the pressure exerted by the inspissated secretions and hard crusts, upon the turbinated hones, is to cause an interstitial absorption, an atrophy, in them ; the result is shoAvn, in the course of time, in the abnormally ivide, roomy nasal passage, and in the almost rudimentary appearance of the turbinated bones, especially the inferior. From the process of atrophy here described, to the condition accompanied by fetor, or to the form of rhinitis termed fetid, is hut a stop: the latter coudition follows the former closely—indeed is part of it, if it has lasted any time—and I see no need, clinically, to make a distinction between the two. Fetor is the direct result of the atrophy, in this way: the secretions are scanty and tenacious, as has been said, and become more and more so as atro])hy of successive follicles and glands takes place. (The explanation is simple: the atrophic process has affected, first and chiefly, the serous glands, which are numerous in the nasal mucous membrane; their function is, as is well known, by their secretion to render tlie nasal mucus thin and ivatery; hut this function being abolished by their gradual destruction, the mucus se- creted by the mucous glamls, large numbers of which still remain intact, is viscid and tenacious.) This secretion adheres to the mucous surfaces, and ra}ndly desiccates in the respiratory current of aii-. Large crusts and scabs thus readily form, and cling closely, in the nasal passages and at the vault of the pharynx. Impacted in the narrowed parts of the canals, pent up beneath the turbinated hones, and constantly growing in size by the addition of the