282 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. lower lid, it will keep its comfortable position. Otherwise it will be dragged round against the eye by the lid. The outward bend is ditferent for the two sides. By a little experience in the use of the pliers, and in fitting the length to different eyes, it is easy to get the suitable curves and the right length, so that the style will fit close up in the corner, rest gently on the lower lid, be touching or almost touching the floor of the nostril, and be worn without incon- venience or unsightliness. In most cases, I prefer not to use the style. If the thorough operation for freeing the passages, already described, is followed by rapid contraction of the sac and diminution of the discharge, I prefer occasional syringing with tepid water or mild astringents. If the troubles persist, or frequent relapses occur, then a resort to wearing the style may be a great aid. In one respect its use is more agreeable to the patient. After the first few days it is not nearly as j:)ainful as dilatation by the occasional passage of the probe. But whatever method of combating the stricture may be thought best in any case, the use of the syringe must always enter freely into the treatment, if there is much enlargement of the sac and profuse secretion. In that event, if the style be employed, it must be removed every day or two for thorough cleansing with tepid water, or the injection of astringents, if that fails. Wlien little or no further secretion is present, the style can be worn for weeks together without removal. The style, of course, must be com- fortably fitted to each case, if good is expected. In first placing it, and sometimes in replacing it after removal for syringing, it may not readily enter. Its short, curved, and awkward shape makes the maui]:)ulation difficult. When this trouble is experienced, the full-sized probe may be passed and imme- diately followed by the style. Its reintroduction is more apt to be difficult after the use of astringents to the sac. To combat the discharge, if not promptly cured by wearing the st}de, syringings with tepid water and astrin- gents must be used. About the best is a ten-grain solution of sulphate of cop- per, a few drops drawn into the syringe and passed through after thorough cleansing with tepid water. When the suppuration is controlled, and the patient is allowed to go home, the surgeon should insist on his immediate return if the discharge grows worse in spite of wearing the style and the observance of proper care. After the first thorough operation, if all the symptoms improved rapidly, I would simply cleanse the sac when needed, by tejiid syringing, and wait. If the case came to a stand-still, or got worse, I would pass the probe and let it remain for half an hour, once or twice a week, continuing the necessary medication of the sac. If, after a few weeks, the case did not progress well, I would fit a suitable style and see that it was comfortably adapted. Hot much attention need be paid to complaints of lachrymation, as long as it is not attended by undue secretion of muco-pus. This can only be remedied by free dilatation of the stricture and faithful medication with the syringe. I have seldom failed to find rapid and great improvement after the first free use of the bidbous probes. In cases with a fistulous opening through the skin, I prefer to pass the probes through it into the sac, and down to the nose. As we have this convenient way into the sac open, immediate and large dilatation of the stricture may be thus practised, and is always followed by closure of the fistula and great amelioration. How and then, nothing more is needed ; but, if required, the upper canaliculus may be slit and the usual treatment con- tinued. Where the sac is so large that no treatment can be expected to bring it to reasonable dimensions, a large portion, or the whole of it, may be dissected out. I did this recently with the happiest result. The patient had chronic ozsena, and profuse suppuration from a large lachrymal tumor. Having etherized her, I made a long incision and dissected out the sac with an enormous diverticulum. The wound was closed with sutures, and healed