INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 904 ties ; ami it has heen in some cases very successful. But it has its dangers, and especially if the distension has heen great and ])rolonged, and if the intestinal coats are softened by inflammatory changes. Under these circumstances the ])uncture-holes are a]it not to close, but to allow of leakage of the intestinal contents. I have seen this catastrophe necessitate the establishment of an artificial anus, and have more than once witnessed the use of circular ligatures to close the openings. It is a practice which should never he pur- sued in an inflamed, over-stretched, softened, oj’ otherwise diseased bowel; and even in healthy tissues it should be avoided, if by gentle manipula- tion and moulding of tlie jirotruded gut, oi' by moderate enlargement of the opening, reduction can be otherwise effected. But the bowel may also be irreducible owing to the protrusion with it of omentum, which has become congested and cedematous; in this case the omentum should be treated by ligature and removed, and then the bowel should be returned. Again, adliesions may have formed between the bowel and surrounding jiarts, at or outside the opening, in which case the}^ must be gently broken down or divided, when, after stopping bleeding, if there he any, the intestine can he replaced. If the bowel be strangulated, it may be in one of three conditions: (1) simply congested ; (2) actively inflamed ; or (3) actually gangrenous. Respecting the two former conditions, there can be no doubt that the practice to adopt is the same as in hernia—viz., the opening should be enlarged, and the bowel returned as soon and as gently as jiossible. There is no plaee like home for a sick bowel, as for a sick man. But if the gut be in a state of gangrene, commencing or complete, it is death to the patient to return it to the peritoneal cavity; it is to cast the corrupt and festering carcase into the chamber of the living—to poison life by the putrefaction of death. If, then, the bowel has lost its polish, and is of a dusky or brownish-black color; if its coats tear readily and are tumid and swollen ; still more, if there are greenish or ashen-gray spots in them, the surgeon—knovving that such conditions are past repair, that sloughs must separate, and that an artificial or false anus must form—should leave the bowel in the wound, and wait for the formation of a false anus, or else perform enterectomy. If the former plan be selected, and all goes well, adhesive inflammation will attach the gut firmly to the edges of the parietal wound, the peritoneal cavity will be safely cut off’ before the sloughs separate, and there will be then no danger of fecal extravasation into it. On the other hand, pain, vomiting, abdominal distension, weak pulse, and general depression, may point to an unfavorable termination from eollapse or inflam- mation; or the false anus may be so high u]» in the bowel that, the chyme escaping through it, death will occur sooner or later from inanition. It may liere be mentioned that, as the portion of bowel below the strangulation is empty and contracted, the nearer the seat of strangulation is to the stomach, the less distended will be the abdomen, and the quicker and more severe will be the symptoms. Enterectomy in these cases, therefore, should be performed. Remarkable cases of recovery after wounds of the abdomen with protrusion, are related by Mr. Ilayne,' by Dr. Shearman,^ and by Bransby Cooper.^ B. Cooper says:— I liave heard my colleague, Mr. Morgan, relate a case, in which a boy at Tottenham received a wound in the abdomen through which a large quantity of intestines pro- truded ; he placed the.viscera in his pinbefore and walked a considerable distance to a surgeon, who freed the bowels from a quantity of dust which adhered to them, returned them into the cavity of the abdomen, and sewed up the wound by the uninter- rupted suture ; by this judicious treatment the patient was restored to health. ' Edin. Med. and Surg. Jour., vol. v. p. 129. * Provincial Med. and Surg. Jour., Aug. 1845. Surgical Essays, ji. 2(34