INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1094 a peri-renal abscess, the antecedent inflammation of ■which had given rise to such severe symptoms as to lead to the exploration. Operation.—An incision is made four and a half inches in length, parallel with, and three-fourths of an inch below, the last rib. The structures divided are the same as in nephrotomy. In nephrolithotomy, if the quadratus lum- borum be so wide as to contract the deep part of the wound, its outer edge may be incised to the extent of one-half oi- three-fourths of an inch. All bleed- ing vessels having been twisted, and hemorrhage quite sta}-ed, an assistant should stretch the edges of the wound widely apart with suitable retractors, and the operator, with two pairs of dissecting forceps, then tears through the jieri-renal fat. As he approaches the back of the kidney, there will be some- times noticed a difference in the character of this fat, that immediately in contact with the kidney being finer in texture and of a delicate primrose color. If from presence of the stone there has been inflammation in the tissues around the kidney, this appearance will not be expected, and the whole of tlie tissue will probably be dense and tough. When the kidney has been fairly reached, the index finger should be passed carefully over the Avhole of the posterior surface of the organ, including its pelvis, and any inequality of surface, or increased hardness or resistance at any particular spot, should be searched for. During this tactile exploration— indeed, throughout the whole of the examination oh the kidney—the abdomi- nal walls of the patient should be well supported by an assistant, or by well arranged pillows, so that the kidney may not be pushed forwards bj' the exploring finger. If nothing suggestive of the presence of a stone is thus felt, the kidney shonld be freely exposed to view by drawing aside the edges of the wound, and a tine needle should be passed into the renal substance. This should be done in a sj'stematic way, and in several places, if the stone be not at once struck—introducing the needle here and there, so as to puncture in suc- cession the several calyces of the kidney, in one or othei' of which experience tells us that the stone usually rests. If in the course of the digital exploration some one s})ot gives more resistance than the rest, this should be first punc- tured, but otherwise the puncturing should be done in a well-i)lanned manner. On this point I would lay great stress, as it is quite possible to puncture in a dozen places, and yet to miss the calculus. If by this means the calculus is not detected, the search should not be given up until the fingers of the right hand are passed round the outer edge of the kidney, and the front surface felt over in the same ivay as the posterior. Whilst doing this, in order to give counter-resistance to the exploring finger, the kidney may be pressed against the psoas muscle, or be squeezed between tbe finger and thumb. Despite all these means, a calculus may escape detec- tion. I recently removed by lumbar nephrectomy a healthy kidney for a calculus, the size of a marble, imbedded in it, but which I could not localize. The man recovered well, but the loss of so good a kidney was a very regrettable feature in the case. The kidney becomes very hard and tough under the prolonged irritation of a stone, so that, whilst the organ feels tinner than natural, ai^y slight difference in the degree of resistance of one ]>art is more difficult to appreciate. This hardness of the renal substance should make the surgeon very suspicious of a calculus, and future experience will, I think, en- courage him, Avhen this condition is present, not to be satisfied, either that no stone exists or that neidirectomy must be perfonned, until be has made such an incision into the kidney as will open each of the calyces. Kidney-wounds are known to heal readily, and whilst the risk of such an incision ivould not equal that of nephrectomy, the preservation of even a ivounded kidney would be preferable to the sacrifice of the oi'gan. The stone having been de- tected by one oi’ other of the methods above described, the overlying part