847 MALIGNANT TUMORS. ' See Plate XXIV., Vol. IV., page G43. appearance, consistence, and progress of tlie growths, hut they all possess the general characteristics ot cancer. Sympto'iiis, iJiagnosls, and Progress.—In the early stage of the disease, the most common condition is that of a hard, irregular, more or less circnm- scrihed lump in tlie lireast structure; this lump is not usually large, but in some cases of acute disease it may grow rapidly. The situation of the lump varies; it is most common towards the outer border of the breast, not far from the nipple and a little above it, but it also occurs at other points in the gland. There ma}’ or may not be adhesion of the skin with a corresponding depres- sion, and the nipple may or may not be drawn down and retracted. Out of 100 cases, Gross found retraction of the nipple in 52. The neighboring lymphatic glands may or may not be affected. The hardness varies in degree according to the relative proportions of cell-element and stroma, hut in most instances it is well marked and stony in character. This symptom is best detected by pressing the tumor backwards against the rilis, standing behind the patient while doing this. Occasionally, some part of the tumor may he softer, owing to the presence of cysts. The amount of irregularity also varies; in some instances the swelling is distinctly nodular, while in others it is smoother to the touch. The outline differs in different cases: the growth may feel circumscribed, except at its }»oint of connection with the breast- structure, liut in other instances the cancerous material may be infiltrated into the surrounding textures, and the margins of the growth may be con- se(^uently ill-defined. The fixedness of a scirrhus depends upon the amount of its infiltration into the breast-structure, and upon the adliesion and involvement of skin, fascia, and muscles. In its earl}' stage, the growth may be freely movable except at the point of its attachment to the glaiul, but in its progress this mobility may become very limited. As a rule, a scirrhous growth is not painful to touch, although in a sen- sitive patient even gentle pressure may be complained of. In many cases the patient suffers from pain shooting through the breast, and this is most common in acute instances of the disease. Tlie whole affected breast usually presents some alteration in appearance, size, and position ; and occasionaHy discharges, tinged with blood, run from the ni}>ple. These are the S3’inptoms most frequentlj^ met with in connection with scirrhus of the breast, hut there is much difference in regard to the rapidity and nature of its progress. In cases in wliich the cancer becomes infiltrated into the greater part of the breast-structure, there is general enlargement and induration of the breast, and in Avell-marked examples of the atrophic form the gland-structure in great part disappears, and the growkh and adherent textures resemble a depressed, hard, and contracted cicatrix.' In a few instances (1 in eveiy 48, according to Gross), the disease is met with in the form of distinct nodules. As an assistance to diagnosis, the age of the patient may be considered : reference has already been made to the fact that the largest number of cases occur lietween the ages of 40 and 50. Constitutional cacliexia occurs at vaiying times after the first appearance of the disease. In a few instances it is present almost from the first, but in the majority it only becomes marked during the progress of the disease. ily means of the symptoms mentioned, scirilius of the breast can usualh’ lie diagnosed, but occasionally other conditions, and moi’e particularly' chronic inflammatory induration of the breast-structure or portions of it, and chronic abscesses or cysts with induration of surrounding textures, simulate this form of cancer very closely. Should general and local treatment not s[ieedil_7 relieve these conditions, and the case he of doubtful nature, no time should