INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 70 gunshot wounds. The contused and lacerated varieties may he produced without fracture of the skull, but this accident almost necessarily precedes the more severe fornis.^ Punctured wounds may he caused by spicules of bone driven down into the substance of the organ, but most frecpiently result from thrusts with penknives, forks, dirks, pointed pieces of wood, nails, ferules of umbrellas or walking canes, etc. Those portions of the skull most often perforated are the orbital plates of the frontal bone and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, although in young children any portion of the skull may be thus injured. Gross states that a bad punctured fracture sometimes results in children from a blow by the spur of an enraged cock.^ The brain has been traversed from one extremity to the other by balls, swords, bayonets, ram- rods, etc. In one case reported l)y Larrey, a ramrod passed through a soldier’s head without wounding any important structure;— A metal ramrod entered the head of a soldier in tlie middle of the frontal bone, making its exit upon the left side of the neck, and was so firmly imbedded as to defy all efibrts at removal. After death, the missile was found to have passed between the cerebral hemispheres without wounding them, but tearing the falx ; after which it pierced the body of the sphenoid bone, and finally emerged through the occipital bone near the foramen magnum. This patient lived two days.® Incised and punctured wounds of the brain, when small and clean-cut, may, according to Rokitansky, sometimes heal by adhesion. In minor degrees of contusion, repair is effected as in ordinary apoplexies. A superficial mortification of the contused parts may occur, the extent of the process depending upon the degree of the contusion. If slight, the pro- cesses peculiar to red softening occur at the points of injury and in the sur- rounding tissue. AVhen the bruising is more severe, a dark-brown, pulpy mass is apt to be found in the centre of the injured spot, around which is seen a broad zone of intense congestion, with numerous capillary apoplexies. Out- side of the belt of congestion, one of inttaminatory oedema will be detected. In other instances, acute, diffused, superficial sipipuration occurs, which is in- variably accompanied by meningitis. The suppuration is not limited to the surface contusions, but a number of small abscesses are grouped around the superficial one. A contusion of the brain-substance which results in encephalitis, may not end in suppuration but in yellow softening. Tliis is especially true in regard to contusion of the punctiform variety. Ilere the initial necrotic changes are more pronounced than those of infiammation ; hence the ai>])earance of yellow softening. In many cases further changes take place. The softening may extend until large portions of the bi-ain are involved. This is rendered pos- sible by the border zone of oedematous brain-tissue, wherein the nerve-elements already have their nutrition seriously impaired. Even with compound frac- ture of the skull, iieither infiammation nor yellow softening invariably occurs, when the contusion consists simply of capillary apoplexies. After death, these injuries, when the patient survives some time, are evidenced by a slight thickening around a small collection of fat granules, granule-cells, and h^ema- toidin crystals. Finally, slight contusions may—in very rare instances where the skull is not opened—result in circumscribed yellow softening, without any trace of infiammation. These spots of softening may give rise to no troulffe for prolonged periods, and then unfortunately, under entirely unknown con- ' See sections on Contusion of Brain and Fracture of Base of Skull. 2 Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 76. 3 Larrey's Mem. Mil. Surg., vol. ii. p. 313. Am. ed. 1814. I need hardly do more than refer to the famous case recorded by Harlow and Bigelow, in which a tamping iron, weighing over 13 pounds, was blown through a patient’s head, and yet recovery ensued.