568 SURGERY OF THE TEETH AND ADJACENT PARTS. vulcanite or celluloid involves but little exercise of the same abilities. The method used for those substances is quite different. Xo dies are required, but, instead, the teeth are arranged upon the plaster model; the}’ are kept in position by a base of sheet-wax, and wax is also used to build up the form of the denture desired. This form is inclosed in a flask and surrounded with plaster, after which the wax is removed and its place filled with rubber which is prepared for the purpose. The rubber is vulcanized at about 320° Tahr., for one hour, and thus becomes a permanently durable substance. Celluloid is treated in much the same manner, excepting that it is not vul- canized, but is forced into the sha})e of the mould under great pressure, at about the same temperature. Vulcanite has been an inestimable boon to thousands of impecunious edentulous people, but it has been a curse to “ dentistry as a fine art.” Mechanical Treatment of Lesions of the Palate. Lesions of the palate are either congenital or acquired. 'With a loss of any portion of the palate, whether congenital or accidental, sufficient to make a permanent communication between the buccal and nasal cavities, the perfect articulation of any spoken language is impossible. The chief evil arising from congenital cleft palate which demands the inter- ference of science and art, is the defective articulate speech. The effect upon the speech varies much wfith different individuals. It does not seem to depend upon the shape or the extent of the fissure, or upon the intellectual status of the patient, as much as upon some other influences which are not easily deter- mined. Xo physiologist, however large his experience, can tell with cer- tainty, by simple observation of such a fissure, all the articulate sounds which will be defective. The peculiarities of speech shown by persons with cleft palate, form a very interesting study. In most eases which have come to my knowledge, the sounds of Iv and G liave been wanting, but I have seen other cases of intel- ligent and fairly educated people, with whom every consonant sound of the English language has been defective excepting those of K and G. Aside fi’om the inability to articulate, the resonating tone-power of both buccal and nasal cavities becomes entirely changed by their partial or complete union, or by the change in their form or dimensions, so that the speech of a person with cleft palate becomes altered in tone, indistinct in enunciation, difficult and sometimes impossible to understand, and altogether disagreeable. To such an extent has this condition operated on sensitive minds, that it has, in the absence of relief, sometimes driven the sufferers from society, and made them utterly wretched. Such an affliction is suffleient to call forth all the resources of science in producing a remedy. The only thought which has seemed to govern surgeons in adopting the operation of staphyloraphy, has been that a roof to the mouth of natural tissue must be better fer se than no roof, or than an artificial one, but although the operation has been tested in a thousand cases by the most eminent surgeons of their time, it has resulted in such an uniformity of failure, considered as a beneficent operation, that it should, in my judgment, have been long ago abandoned. Without a complete understanding of the physiology and function of the velum and pharynx, it would be a natural sup- position, that, as there are evils arising from a fissured palate, if the cleft could be closed, the evils would pass away; but a better knowledge of these functions m the mechanism of speech, shows that it is impossible to correct such defects