UMBILICAL HERNIA. 11(33 thesia, has been made. But this rule, also, operates favorably in an operation which is usually successful in saving the patient in inverse proportion to the amount of damage done, chances lost, and time misemployed by ill- directed and unskilful use of the taxis or other futile methods of treatment; and this especially in thin, feeble, female patients after the middle period of life. Umbilical Hernia. Anatomy of Umbilical Hernia.—Two varieties of umbilical hernia pre- sent themselves to the surgeon. One is congenital, and is seen in infants and children at or soon after birth (Uig. 1149), and the other (probably also de- Fig 1149. Umbilical hernia. pendent in some measure upon the same original weakness) is found in adults; in women Avhose abdominal Avails have become distended from pregnancy— especially from multiple births, from a large child, Avith a narroAV pelvis in a small Avoman, or from a large quantity of liquor amnii—or, in both sexes, from corpidence consequent upon adipose deposit in the omentum, or from dropsy in the peritoneal cavity. Congenital umbilical hernia is so common in both sexes as to l»e consid- ered by Sir Astley Cooper to come next in frequency to inguinal hernia. In the development of the foetus, the last part of the ]»eritoneal cavity to close into a shut sac is at the navel. The aiierture through Avhich the omphalo-enteric duct of the yelk sac or umlhlical A'esiclc passes to the intes- tine Avith its omphalo-mesenteric vessels, is occupied in its upper part by these structures bound together l)y the reflected tube of amnion, AAdiile tbe lower part is occupied by the urachus, or tulie of communication of the allantois sac Avith the bladtler, and Avith it, passing upAvards from tlie i)clvis in front of the peritoneum, by tbe placental (aftei’Avards the hypogastric branches of the internal iliac arteries), and, passing doAvinvards from the liver, by the umbilical or placental vein. About the third moiitli of intra- uterine life, the umbilical vesicle and the omphalo-enteric duct, Avith its vessels.