INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1074 several interrupted sutures (Sims used eiglit catgut stitches), to the upper end of the wound in the abdominal walls, leaving tlie opening into the gall-liladder quite free. Finally, the rest of the abdominal wound should be closed in the usual way. Great care should be taken to pass the sutures through the whole thickness of the parietes, including the peritoneum. Some light dressing, sucli as absorbent cotton-wool, boracic charpie, or lint soaked in carholized oil, should be applied over the wound, and the abdomen lightly bandaged. There are one or two other points requiring caution in the performance of this operation; (1) iSlo part of the wall of the gall-bladder should be cut awajN These walls are sometimes thick and vascular, and not attenuated, and !^^arion Sims found much delay and inconvenience from the hemorrhage which fol- lowed the removal of part of the organ. (2) If stones are impacted in the neck of the gall-bladder, or in its duct, or are encysted in the walls of the gall-bladder, much care must he exercised in any attenqit to remove them, or the walls may be perforated, allowing bile to escape into the peritoneum. (3) If the calculus is adherent to tlie mucous membrane of the gall-bladder, the walls may easily be torn, unless extreme cai’e and gentleness are exercised. It would be better to leave the calculi behind than to run the risk of kill- ing the patient by lacerating the parietes of the gall-bladder. (4) In spite of the satisfactory condition of tlie wound of the gall-bladder, and the patency of the ducts, found on post-mortem examination in Mr. Meredith’s case, I am inclined to the opinion tliat no attem})t should ever be made to close up the incision in the gall-bladder so as to return the viscus to the abdomen. There is a possibility that bile may escape between the stitches into the peritoneal cavity; but granting that this risk is very remote, when due care is employed in adjusting the sutures, there is still another and more forcible objection. It is that the surgeon cannot be sure that a calculus is not impacted in some part of the common or cystic duct, beyond reach of his finger or forceps. It is well, therefore, to provide a fistulous opening through which accumulating Idle, or calculi wliich are not detected or which cannot be removed at the time of the operation, may subsequently come away. (5) The operation ought not to be too long delayed. As in other eases in which the surgeon’s aid is sought for, but which do not in the first instance come under his charge—such as intestinal obstruction, renal calculus, hydatid tumor, Inematuria from vesical tumors, and tlie like—so in impacted gall- stones and distended gall-bladder, physicians would do well to advise an operation, even if sometimes it should have to be commenced in the way of an exploratory proceeding, before general dilatation of the biliary ducts within the liver has occurred, and before hepatic abscesses are likely to arise. It is no objection to cholecystotomy that it must sometimes fail to save life, even though performed successfully and recovered from readily. A gall- stone impacted in the hepactic duct, or in tlie common duct, may still keep u}) symptoms of jaundice and colic, and eventuate in death by ulceration or marasmus; but even in these cases there will be relief from the pain of dis- tension. The operation may be performed cither with or without Listerian details; there is ample proof in Tait’s results that they are not in the least necessary, though in the minds of many surgeons they will be regarded as affording increased securify. Thus, Marion Sims concluded his remarks on his own case by saying ;— Tlie great lesson this case teaches is this : In dropsy of the gall-hladder, in hydatid tumors of tiie liver, in suspected abscess of the liver, and in gall-stones, we should not wait till the patient’s strength is exhausted, or till the blood becomes bile-poisoned, producing hemorrhages, hut we should make an early exploratory incision, ascertain the true nature of the disease, and then carry out the surgical treatment that the neces-