INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1060 2 Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xviii. p. 186. 1 Brit. Med. Journ., September 29, 1883. a noticeable tumor during life. In the Hunterian Museum there are also specimens, and the Transactions of tlie London Pathological Society contain some cases scattered through its volumes. These simple cysts arise in the cortex of the organs, and project in relief from its surface, the rest of the kidney being healthy and functionally active. Sometimes, however, a communication is established between the cysts and one of the calyces of the kidney. The contents of the cysts are fluid, the fluid containing a small quantity of albumen and a little saline matter, but rarely, if ever, any urinary ingredients. Rokitansky was never able to dis- cover in them even a trace of urinous precipitates or concretions. Dr. "Wm. AValter’ records a case of cystic tumor in a floating kidney for which nephrec- tomy was performed. The cyst contained 10 ounces of a pale, straw-colored fluid, of speciflc gravity 1013, containing f albumen, but no urine. The walls of the cyst were very thin and tense, and of transparent, bluish hue. In Mr. Caesar Hawkins’s ease of “ Aqueous Encysted Tumor’’ of the kidney, the transparent fluid of the cyst contained no albumen, which suggests its possible hydatid nature; but Dr. Prout wrote of it, “ the fluid is sero?45—I have not detected anything urinary in it.”^ If hemorrhage has taken place into the cyst-cavity, owing to the giving way of some bloodvessel in its walls, the fluid will have a sanguineous color and character. Moxon states, that very often these cysts contain a thick jelly-like matter, like thin glue, and at other times nearly solid, which resembles the colloid matter found in other parts of the body. The origin of these cysts is uncertain; possibly they arise from the conversion of the cellular layer in the Malpighian corpuscles into serous cysts, or from the dilatation of tubes or Malpighian capsules, or perhaps, from vacuolation of epithelium. But, however this may be, we know that cysts of diflerent origin, and even of varying microscopical structure, ma}’ secrete fluid contents wliich ai'e chemically and physically alike. Simple renal cysts commence insidiously, grow slowly, present themselves first in the loin, or in the lumbar area of the front of the belly, and may be so hard at first as to be mistaken for solid growths. As they increase, tliey gradually monopolize the greater part of the abdominal cavity, their point of attachment ceases to be even approximately ascertainable, and they may give rise to the idea of ovarian tumor when they occur in the female. Hemorrhage may take ydace into them; and cancer has been develoi)ed in their parietes. As they grow, they tend to spread out the renal substance, so tliat a good part of the kidne}' may be stretched in a thin layer over the attached part of the cyst-wall. Rokitansky once found such a cyst of considerable size, and seated at the circumference of a kidney, inflamed and ruptured, its contents having escaped into the surrounding adipose tissue. The following case,^ which came under my own observation, affords an illustration of several of these points:— A man aged G9, who had enjoyed good health till two and a half years previously, came under treatment for a swelling the size of a cricket-ball, situated to the left of, and somewhat below the umbilicus ; it gave him no pain ; he had had no injury; his urine was for a time albuminous, and once or twice contained a little blood; the tumor slowly increased, and was ])rominent, firm, globular, not fluctuating, and appeared more like a fibrous tumor of the abdominal wall than an intra-abdominal swelling. There was no dulness in the loin. Nine months afterwards (August, 18G9), the tumor occupied the whole of the left half of the abdomen, and reached somewhat over to the riglit side of the median line; it fluctu- ated distinctly and in all parts, and was fairly movable in every direction, though the abdominal parietes were tightly stretched over it. During this and the two or three pre- ceding months, the patient had had several attacks of syncope, which occurred generally 8 Trans. Patli. Soc. bond., vol. xsii. p. 171.