INJURIES OF THE EYEBALL. 207 The pages of our experience, written and traditional, are full of marvellous accounts of foreign bodies tolerated in the eyes for years. One instance, from my own case book, must suffice ‘ An Irish stone-cutter had Ins left eye put out by a piece of stone. Shortly after, the right eye was injured by a knife, causing traumatic cataract. This Sir William Wilde extracted, giving the man “ good sight” for over twelve years. Then iritis attacked it, producing a false membrane in the pupil so that he could not work, and in tliat condition lie came to considt me, fourteen years after the loss of the left eye. This eye was atrophied, and on examination, a piece of stone was seen projecting from it, directly between the lids. The visible part was about one-quarter of an inch long, the end in the shrunken eye being larger than that which was seen. So the sclera was incised and the piece removed. It was half an inch long, and a quarter of an incli wide at its widest end. AVhen the right eye had been operated on for traumatic cataract, and re- stored to useful sight, the left, containing tlie foreign body, was not atrophied, but pain- ful. The pain persisted for twelve years, when sympathetic iritis set in, impairing, but not destroying, the sight of the right eye. Soon after this the left ball shrank, passing into tlie condition in which it was when I saw him. Fortunately, the sight of the right eye was such that by fitting it with a cataract glass he could see to shovel dirt, and was satisfied. Sympathetic Ophthalmia.—If while one eye is suffering from an injury or an inffammation, the other is attacked by disease, not fairly attributable to any other cause, we call it sympathetic. Sympathetic ophthalmia emliraces a variety of lesions in different parts of tlie eye, all recognizing a common cause. Although traumatic inflammation of one eye is the most frequent cause of sympatlietic destruction of the fellow eye, still this may arise from other troubles. The presence of a foreign body in the injured organ increases the danger to the other. The most dangerous region is the ciliary, embracing a narrow zone around the cornea. It is very liberally supplied with nerves and bloodvessels. Dr. Alt says that seventy-six per cent, of sympathetic diseases are refer- able to trouble in the ciliary body of the offenifing eye. The iris is usually involved at the same time, a complication called irido-cyclitis. Xot unfre- quently, and in tlie most dangerous cases, the whole uveal tract and the retina liecome implicated. But very rare instances arise of fatal sympathetic loss of one eye, where the iris, ciliary, and choroid in the other, have not been affected. A phthisical globe, perfectly painless and free Iforn all out- ward manifestations of irritation, has lieen supposed to give rise to sympathetic disease. In the majority of cases, however, it seems to he bony degeneration of the choroid in such stumps that Anally provokes pain and irritation, and sympathetic trouble. Cyclitis, or irido-cyclitis, whether traumatic or s})On- taneous, seems to be the immediate provocation of sympathetic suffei’ing. Injuries in this dangerous region, especially when complicated with prolapsus of the iris or of the ciliary body, always involve very great danger to the fellow eye. If, in addition to the wound and its complications, a foreign body is lodged in tlie eye, the danger is heightened. The resulting inflammation is then much harder to subdue, and returns on the slightest provocation. Even when the foreign body becomes encysted in the ciliary region, and remains harmless for many years, it is liable to he dislodged and to give rise to serious trouble in both the injured and the well eye. Accidental and surgical inju- ries of all kinds in this region are necessarily serious. In the past fifteen years, numerous eases of sympathetic destruction of one eye, following a Graefe's extraction in the other, have been reiwrted. Few operators of large experience, have been saved from this sad disaster. ATorse than this has ha})pened to me and to others;—