INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAAVS, ETC. 542 tion of the loiA^er Jraa", should he undertaken AAuthout hesitation. Even then it may he impossible to clear away the Avhole of the disease, which, as in Mr. Butlin’s case, may “ extend through the loAA^er wall of the orbit to the eyes, into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and up hetAveen the temporal and mas- seter muscles and beneath the temporal aponeurosis.” Air. LaAvson^ has adA'ocated, after removal of the jaAv, the use of caustic paste, and the destruc- tion of the skin covering epitheliomatous groAvths of the antrum, as being the most efficient mode of treatment, and I believe Avith good ground; but the di’aAvback is of course the terrible deformity resulting, Avhich to many per- sons Avould be Avorse than the disease. The tubular fo7'm of einthelioma may originate in the antrum, or, commenc- ing in the nose, may secondarily iiiAmde the antrum. The growth is charac- terized by great rapidity of development, and softness, and the surrounding structures are apt to be rapidly involved. Hence tumors of this class were formerly considered as examples of soft cancer. AYhen beginning on the nasal mucous membrane, the stoppage of the nostril is generally the first symptom noticed, and possibly temporary relief may be obtained by the removal of the so-called polypi. AVhen the disease begins in the antrum, it leads to a rapid expansion of the cheek, Avith stretching and thinning of the skin, Avhich eA^entually becomes involved, and ulcerates, giving exit to a fetid, Avatery discharge, and permitting the formation of a yelloAv, fungous groAvth. The nose and the orbit become secondarily involved, and the growth is apt to find its Avay into the several fossae of the outside of the skull. In tlie treatment of this form of disease, the remarks already made on the treatment of scpiamous epithelioma apply Avith double force. But the cpies- tion often arises, Avhen it is obviously impossible to hope for such a complete removal as shall insure future immunity from relapse, whether any operation may be undertaken Avith the vieAv of giving relief and prolonging life. I have no hesitation in recommending an operation undertaken Avith these objects, in suitable cases, because I haAm found that I haA^e been able to giA^e enormous relief, both bodily and mental, to patients Avith incurable tumors of the jaw, by getting rid of the mass of the disease, Avhich, by its size and un- sightly appearance, was a daily burden; and have prolonged life for some months, in comparatic'e comfort, by giving space in Avhich the fresh formation could lodge itself Avithout interfering Avith deglutition or respiration, and Avithout causing the sutferer to be an eyesore to himself as Avell as to others. Operations on the Jaavs. In all operations upon the jaAvs, the greatest care should be taken to avoid extensive scarring of the face, and the infliction of unnecessary deformity, particularly by breaking the line of the loAver jaAv. Incisions for the relief of inflammation or the evacuation of matter, and punctures for emptying- cysts or the antrum, should invariably be made Avithin the mouth. Extrac- tion of sequestra may be performed in most cases more coiweuiently through the mouth than by external incision, though the surgeon may occasionally avail himself of existing sinuses. The remoAml of epulis in all its A-arieties can be readily accomplished through the mouth, if the operator is provided Avith proper bone-forceps of various kinds, and even large portions of the jaAvs may thus be removed Avith success. The late Air. Alaunder,^ on tAVO occasions, removed large portions of the right side of the loAA^er jaAV Avith the surround- * Clinical Society’s Transactions. 1873. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, July, 1874.