398 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. pie anfumia it is very common. Mackenzie has seen it occur as a concomitant of a highly plethoric condition in children; but more commonly in those of an ill-nourished, strumous constitution. As the result of a gouty or arthritic diathesis, in children, it is not unknown.* At puberty, especially in males, it is very frequent. Furthermore, any morbid condition which interferes with the venous circulation, or increases the pressure within the arterial system, alters the tension in the bloodvessels of the nose, and thus predis- poses to passive hemorrhage. Epistaxis due to emphysema, lieart-disease (Durozier), or whooping-cough, is thus often seen, and it may likewise depend upon diseases of the kidneys, spleen, or liver. (Boyce.) Pressure upon the venous trunks by tumors of the neck or chest, may also produce like results. Those passive hemorrhages from the nose which have been termed vica- rious^ possess a peculiar interest. Epistaxis may appear vicariously for other customary hemorrhages, especially those of a hemorrhoidal character, or in place of menstruation, and in both cases may return at regular intervals.^ Fricker,^ Ohermeier,^ and Sommer® all report interesting cases of the latter form. Ivussmaul® saw periodical epistaxis in a woman having no uterus. The deductions to be draivn from these observations are, Ijowever, it must be stated, denied by Puech,^ who shows, from the statistics of one hundred cases, that the nasal mucous membrane is least frequently the seat of a vicarious catamenial flow. Finally, passive hemorrhage from the nose is said to have sometimes pre- vailed epidemically,® and that habitual nose-bleed is hereditaiy in some families, is apparently shown by the observations of Babington.® Symptoms of Epistaxis.—The symptoms of an attack are evident. The patient will complain of a sensation of pressure in the head, sometimes of dizzi- ness and a feeling of warmth, and of fulness and tickling in the nose. The flow having commenced, may proceed from both nostrils, as in scurvy, purpura, etc., or from one only, as is commonly the case, and its amount is very variable; usually it runs in drops, but it may pour out in the form of a small stream. Jets of blood are rarely seen. As a rule it ceases spontaneously, or with simple treatment, in a few moments, hut, on the other hand, it mai^ last for hours, or even da}^s, and large quantities of blood may thus escape. Fraenkel calls attention to the fact tliat hemorrhages dependent upon traumatic causes,or upon diseases of tlie nose, are much less likely to he accompanied by an abun- dant flow than those which are caused by other conditions. The blood is of a bright-red color, and coagulates readiljR Where the flow is very rapid and prolonged, acute anaemia, with all its symptoms, may arise, and even death may occur. The pulse and appeai’ance of the patient must then he carefully watched, especially if fainting or other evidences of exsanguination are pre- sent. Diagnosis.—There is usually no difficulty in arriving at a correct diagnosis as to the source of the bleeding, especially if a direct inspection of the"^nasal passage from which it is proceeding be made. The frequency with which it arises from the anterior qiortion of the nasal septum has been alluded to. Certain conditions may arise, however, to complicate the question of its 1 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1868, p. 39. 2 Fraenkel, op. cit. (Ziemssen), vol. iv. p. 1.'52. ^ WtirtemUerg. med. Correspond.-Blatt, No. 21. 1844. ^ Virchow’s Arcliiv, Bd. liv. S. 435. ® Heidelberger klinische Annalen. Bd. x. ® Von dem Mangel, der Verkilmmerung und Verdoppelung der Gebarmutter u. s. w. Wiirz- burg, 1859. 7 Gazette des Hopitaux, p. 188. 1863. ® Morgagni, op. cit., lib. i. epist. xiv. 25 ; Cloquet, op. cit., p. 557. Lancet, vol. ii. 1865.