378 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. B—lodini ciyst., gr. iv ; Potassii iodidi, gr. x ; Zinci iodidi, Zinci sulplio-carbolat., aa ; “Listerine,” 5] ; AqujE, ad fsiv. M.* Ill case the solutions, mainly of mineral astringents, that have been given, are not well borne, a powder may be substituted with excellent results, and, indeed, is particularly applicable in this form of the disease. As a rule, however, I am not a warm advocate of the use of powders in the treatment of rhinitis. In the form under consideration, where the secretions are readily removable, and the parts soft and absorptive, they will do good, but in hyper- trophic rhinitis they are, I believe, of little use, and in atrophic or fetid rhinitis, they are absolutely contra-indicated. The powders may be applied by means of the anterior or posterior nasal powder-blower, after the parts have been well cleansed.^ AVhatever be the plan of treatment instituted—and it and its details may readily be determined upon from what has been said—it is to he steadily per- severed in, not necessarily in these cases under the direct manipulations of the surgeon himself, hut certainly under his general supervision, and at suitable intervals, until the morbid conditions for which it was undertaken are alleviated. Hypertrophic ISTasal Catarrh.—If the simple form of chronic catarrh just described he permitted to run its course without interference, in certain cases the results of the continued chronic inflammatory process are sooner or later seen in marked proliferation of all the normal elements of the delicate mucous membrane—in other words, in a true hypertrophy of tissue. This hypertroph}^, specially prone, mainly from anatomical reasons, to take place in the nasal passages, aflects both the superficial and deep layers of the ' In order to save repetition, the formulie of the solutions more commonly used in the treatment of tlie various forms of nasal catarrh, are here given in the usual strength in which they are employed. Other combinations and other remedies will suggest tliemselves. Acidi tannici, gr. v-xx-f_^j. Aluminis, gr. v-f§j. Auri chloridi, gr. x-f§j. Cupri sulphatis, gr. v-f§j. Ferri et ammonii sulphat., gr. v-f §j. Ferri perchloridi gr. v-f§j. Ferri sulphatis, gr. v-f.^j. Potassii chloratis, 9j-foj* Zinci chloridi, gr, iij-f§j. Zinci iodidi, gr. x-f§j. Zinci sulphatis, gr. v-f3j. Zinci sulpho-carbolatis, gr. ij-f3j. Argenti nitrat., gr. ij-iij-f§j. Ammonii chloridi, gr. v-x-f^j. Tinct. krameriie, f5j~foi' Tinct. kino, fSj-fSJ- * The following formulae for powders are taken from Robinson and others : IJ;.—Acid, salicylic., gr. x; Acid, tannic.. Bismuth, subcarb., aa 5j- M. I^.—Zinci chloridi, gr. v ; Pulv. belladonnae, gr. x ; Pulv. amyli, §ss. M. R..—Argenti nitrat., gr. ij ; Bismuth, subnit., 3U- M. R.—Pulv. cubebae, §ss ; Pulv. sodii bicarb., 3'j ! Pulv; acid, salicylici, gr. x; Pulv. sacch. alb., 3U‘ R.—Pulv. iodoform., 3ij ; Pulv. camphorae, 3j ! Pulv. acidi tannici, gr. v; Pulv. acacias, 3ij- M- R.—Hydrarg. chlor. mitis, 3j ! Pulv. morph, sulph., gr. j ; Pulv. bismuth, subnit., 3ij 5 Pulv. sacch. alb., 3U- M- R.—Ferri et ammonii sulph., Bj; Pulv. amyli, §j. M. R.—Aluminis, ; Pulv. amyli, §j. M. R.—Ferri sulphat., 9j ; Pulv. amyli, 53. M. R.—Potass, chlorat., 3ss; Pulv. amyli, §j. M.