315 DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR. side of the liead is not a rare accoinpanimeiit of tlie disease, and I have known it to persist for a long time. In exceptional cases, deep pressure in front of the tragus causes pain, and the glands on the side of the neck, helow the ear, are very apt to he tender and perceptibly swollen. The act of swallowing is at times accompanied by pain, or by a sense of soreness in the region of the Eustachian tube. In some cases the patient complains that loud sounds ])roduce a painful sensation, not so much in the ear proper as in the sensorium. Certain musical tones, especially those of a comparatively high pitch, may also produce a peculiar fluttering or jarring sensation, which is felt directly in the ear, and which is very distressing. Double hearing even is observed in rare instances. Finally, in a certain proportion of the cases, free serum or mucus accumulates in the tympanic cavity, and its presence may tlien give rise to some very characteristic symptoms, such as a sense of sometliing moving in the deeper parts of the ear when the head is moved, a crackling sound wlien the nose is blown, and a mai'ked increase in the acuteness of the hearing when the head is held in a certain position—as a rule, tliat main- tained by a person in the recumbent posture. 'V\iQ i)hysteal exaraination follows next in order. Some impairment of the hearing of one or both ears will always he found, hut it may he of very slight degree. The vibrations of the tuning-fork ivhich rests upon the centre of the patient’s forehead, will almost invariably be lieard loudest in the ear most affected. I have, in a few instances, met with the reversed state of things, and have been puzzled to find a plausible explanation of the phenomenon. That given on page 290 is the only one that I can offer. We must remem- ber, however, that while a temporary participation of the labyrinthine vessels in the inflammation, leading to diminished perce]>tive power of the auditory nerve of the side affected, will peiliaps serve as an explanation for some of these cases; in otljers, it is quite possible that the phenomenon may be due to the existence, in the apparently well ear, of some changes in the structure or tension of the apparatus of licariug, of so slight a degree that we are unable to measure them, but yet sutflcicntly marked to produce the discrepancy referred to above, viz., that of referring the sound of the viln-ating tuning-fork to the good ear. As a matter of course, the presence of a mass of cerumen or of a plug of cotton in the presumably well ear, will destroy the value of the tuning-fork test. The drum-membrane of an ear which is the seat of an acute catarrhal inflammation of the middle ear, may he expected to show, in the earlier stages of tlie disease, evidences of congestion. The long process of the malleus, and the circular periphery of the membrane, are the I’egions in which the bloodvessels will he found gorged with blood. Sometimes the area of redness will involve the intervening parts of the drum-membrane, and occasionally even the adjiacent cutaneous walls of the canal will show evidences of iiarticipation in the inflammation. The polished aj)})earance, which is a marked feature of the normal membrana tym])ani, is soon succeeded by a dulness and roughness of the suiTace, attributable to an e'xudatiou of serum and lymphoid cells from the bloodvessels. In another class of cases, we shall find the lower part of the drum-membrane fairly normal in appearance, while the upper part, and ])ai‘ticularly the thicker tissues constituting the posterior fold, show very decided evidences of active inflammation. In a third class, finally, the membrane, while retaining its jiolishcd surface, jiresents an a)»pearancc quite dittcrent from that (fliserved in the normal drum- membrane; the tissues composing it look as if they had been soaked in oil, aiid the prevaling color is not the grayish slate-color of the normal membrane, but a dark purple, or even a dull greenisli hue. On closer inspection, we shall find that we are looking at a very much sunlmn membrane, and that the