740 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAOES. nodule on a vocal band, and bad explained to tbe patient tbat an openition would be eventually necessary, and from whom, some ten years afterwards, tbe neo])lasm bad been removed by Stoerk. Sjiiaptoiiis.—Dysplionia is usually tbe earliest symptom to attract attention, sometimes existing for many months, even for two years or more, before any alarm is experienced. Then follow pain, in many instances extending towards tbe ears and along tbe neck ; dysphagia, when tbe disease occupies or mounts tbe u})per border of the larynx; cough ; salivation ; expectoration, which becomes blooily, and perhaps fetid, after the ulcerative stage has commenced; and dyspiRca, pi’oportionate to the mechanical obstruction present. The dj's- phonia may augment to aphonia. Paralj’tic aphonia is indicative of nerve- compression. Ai)i)arent paralytic aphonia may be due to immobility of a vocal band caused by pressure from a tumor beneath it. In extrinsic car- cinoma, the dysphagia precedes the dysphonia. Tlie dysphagia may augment to positive aphagia. Both dys[)hagia and dysphonia may be due to collateral cedema. The dyspnoea is usually greater in inspiration than in expiration, and often undergoes paroxysmal increase, especially at night. Spasm is an occasional phenomenon. AVhen the tumor has attained sufficient size, the d3'spnaia may augment sufficiently to threaten suffocation ; but should losses of tissue take place by su})puration and expectoration, these respiratoiy lihenomena become less intense, or subside altogether, and sometimes the aphonia undergoes amelioration likewise. Finally, emaciation, fever, and marasmus ensue. Diagnosis.-—-The subjective symptoms are insufficient to establish the diagnosis. The somewhat characteristic shooting pains are sometimes pro- duced in other affections, and are absent in many cases of carcinoma, l.aryngoscopically, a diffuse swelling in a circumscribed locality is the earliest objective indication, but this is insufficient for correct diagnosis. Subsequently a distinct tumor becomes developed, undergoes nodulation, and then ulceration. In some instances, chiefly those of extrinsic carcinoma, the pro«:ress of the disease is attended with swelling, first of the submaxillary, and"then of the cervical lym[)hatic glands. Finally, the usual carcinomatous cachexia becomes evident; but less pronounced than with carcinoma else- where. Thus the disease must usually be of some months’ standing before diagnosis by mere inspection can be accurate. Scpiarnous-celled carcinoma is usually first I’ecognizable as an undiscolored, globose swelling; afterwards it be- t-omes pale, wrinkled, and nodulated. It is apt to become overlaid with pa- pillomatous excrescences, especially when occupying the vocal bands. Large sphcroidal-celled carcinoma is usuall}' first recognizable as an undiscolorcd, irregular, and uncircumscribed tumor; soon becoming nodulated, dark, and irregularly vascular, and finallj' undergoing ulceration at one or more points. In the advanced stages of the disease there is little difficult}’ in the diagnosis. The characteristic irregular, nodulated, vascular and ragged aspect of the surface, leaves little room for doubt. And even this doubt can be cleared away by microsco})ic examination of fragments removed for the purpose; a harmless practice which should be instituted at tbe very earliest o})portunity as a guide for [>ropcr treatment. Iffscrimination between tbe varieties of carcinoma is otherwise impossible in their earl}' stages. In the ulcerative stage of intrinsc car- cinoma of moderate dimensions, or of carcinoma of the cqiiglottis, the disease is liable to be mistaken for syphilis, and, perhaps, for tuberculosis. Fig. 1091. Large rtpheroidal-celled card* uoiiia at au early stage.