911 PENETRATING AVOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. tlie autopsy of a case in wbicl] the thirti part of tlie duodenum and three coils of jejunum had been penetrated, without any extravasation occurring, bj’a ball tired in a duel in Hyde Park, on September 4, 1783, should yet have concluded, when describing another case in which the ball passed through from front to l)ack of the abdomen, that none of the intestines Avere Avounded, because there Avas no blood in the stools, and no symptoms of extravasation of the contents of any viscus. It is quite as surprising to read, that a case in which a minie ball of large size passed directly from rear to front through the helljq almost through the centre of the intestines as they lie coiled up in the abdomen, and in Avhich “it is Amry certain that the hall passed in a direct line and Avas not deflected,” hut in Avhich no fecal matter Avas discharged through either orifice and no pus by the rectum, should be cited as pi’oof “ that Malgaigne’s denial of penetrating Avounds of the abdomen without A’is- ceral injury can only be accepted in a restricted sense.”* iS>/mptom.s.—These vary in different cases and in different constitutions, from those of mere temporary shock, Avith the mildest possible form of local adhesive inflammation, to all the symptoms of a most severe and Avidespread peritonitis. This may he most insidious in its onset; three, four, or even eight days may elapse after a stab in the abdomen, involving the intestines in more than one place, Avithout any synqttom lieing evinced; then obsti- nate vomiting suddenly sets in, and the patient is carried off in a feAv days by ])eritonitis.^ When effusion into the abdomen occurs, the course of the case is generally that of the most acute and fatal form of traumatic peritonitis. 4Then effu- sion takes place externally, the symptoms may be limited to more or less shock and local tenderness, folloAved Avithin a feAV days by recovery Avith a temporary fistula. When neither internal nor external effusion occurs, the patient may recover Avithout ever having had any symptom indicative of a severe abdominal Avound; or, on the other hand, severe peritonitis accompa- nied by high fever, jaundice, diarrhoea, bloody urine, bloody stools or vomit, or perhaps by the jiassage, Avithin a period of from a feAv days to three or four Aveeks alter the injury, of a bullet or other foreign body by the rectum, or of some fragment of clothing by the urethra—one or other of these symp- toms—may give the case a very graA^e asjiect for a time at least, though reco- very Avill ultimately follow. Su])puration or sloughing about the external Avound may continue for some Aveeks, but healing altera timeAvill take place by means of granulations. Diagnosis.—Unless it is folloAvcd by the escape externally of the contents of the viscus, a penetrating Avound, Avith injury to an organ, can oidy be diag- nosed from a sim[)le penetrating Avound if blood be passed by the I’ectum, or vomited, or voided Avith the urine; or if the missile, or some foreign body, such as a piece of clothing carried in by the Aveapon, is passed through one of the natural outlets of the body; or, in the case of the bladder, if at the time of the injury the bladder is knoAvn to have been full, and aftenA'ards nothing but blood, or blood with a little urine, can be Avoided or AvithdraAA'ii. A visceral Avound may be fatal l>_y hemorrhage, causing syncope, or op])ression of the sym[)athetic by the Aveight of the effused blood; but there are no means of knowing the exact source of the bleeding; it may he from a deep vessel in the parietes, or from a Avound of cither of the solid or holloAv viscera. If effusion of the visceral contents occurs into the abdominal caAdty, but not out- wardly, and inflammation is excited, Ave cannot even then be quite sure that the peritonitis has been set up by effusion, and not simply by the Avound * Med. and Snrg. Hist, of War of Rebellion. Second Surgical Volume, p. 204. * Two cases are recorded by La Motte and quoted by Travers (op. cit., p. 78).