727 MORBID GROWTHS OF THE LARYNX. be removed for closer examination, Imt even then, there is sometimes uncer- tainty as to the question of composite structure. Papillomata (Figs. 1072 and 1073) are often multiple, usually sessile, more or less dendritic, and sometimes racemose. Their color varies from the merest tinge of red to an intense red. Some are quite white. Their size Fig. 1072. Fig. 1073. Fig. 1074. Multiple papillomata of the larynx. Larynx after their removal. Laryngeal fibroma. varies from that of small seeds to tliat of mulberries, or a series of mulberries. Sometimes they seem to fill the iqiper cavity of the larynx. They usually occupy the anterior portion of the larynx, and their most fretj^uent seat seems to be a vocal band. Fibromata (Fig. 1074) are usually single,* smooth, and pendunculated. The pedicle is sometimes attached vertically, sometimes transversely. JMost fibromata are red. Some are white or gray. Some of them are vascular on the surface. They are more uniform in size than the jiapillomata, and slower in development. Their size varies from tliat of a small pea to that of quite a large nut. They are most frequent on the vocal band. Myxomata^ which are quite rare, are usually single,^ smooth, or slightly irregular in form, and pedunculated. Tliey are pink or red, and their size varies from that of small seeds to that of large beans. They are most fre- quent at the commissure of the vocal liands. Angeiomata (Fig. 1075), of which I liave seen but four examples in my own practice, are usually single, reddish or bluish-black, of size varying from that of small peas to that of mulberries, and most frequent upon the vocal bands. AVagner^ has reported one in a ventricle, and AJackenzie one in the pyriform sinus.^ Ijipo)iiata, of which I have not seen any example, may be so large as nearly to fill tlie larynx.® In V. von Bruns’s case, the growth was sessile, lobulated, elastic, red, and located on the left arytenoid cartilage. Cystomata are usually sessile, globulai*, translucent, and wliite or I’ed. They occupy a vocal band occasionally (Fig. 1076), but a ventricle or the epiglottis more fre(|uently. In a case oliserved in my own clinic, a cyst was seen to occupy both a ventricle and the glosso-epiglottic sinus. Ecchondromata, uidike other benign growths, seem to be developed chiefly in the posterior portions of the larynx. Thus Stoerk® reports a case of large ecchondroma developed from the base of the left arytenoid cartilage; ' A case of multiple fibromata (six) has been reported by myself. Meilical Record, p. 265. 1869. 2 A case of multiple myxomata (three) has been reported by myself. Transactions of the Pathological Society of Philadelpliia, p. 151. 1873. 3 Archives of Laryngology, p. 332. 1880. Essay on Growths in the Larynx, Plate II. Fig. 12. ' ^ V. von Bruns, Dreiundzwanzig neue Beobachluiigen von Polypen des Kehlkopfes, S. 84. Tiihingen, 1868. ® Op. cit., S. 417.