INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 754 growth. Should fragments be expectorated, they can he examined under the microscope. Unless there be no doubt that the growth occupies as deep a position as indicated, a laryngeal growth may he mistaken for a tracheal one. I have known a growth to be described as endo-tracheal, and as situated Tracheal tumor seen by laryngo- scopy. (Labus.) The same case after evulsion of the tumor. (Labus.) Fig. 1094. Sarcoma of trachea. (Schroetter.) at the fourth or fifth ring, which had been described by myself as an endo- laryngeal growth, not below the level of the cricoid cartilage. It is neces- sary also to be able to exclude involutions of the trachea (see Uig. 1047, page 684), whether from aneurism or from growth outside the air-tube, giving rise to similar physical symptoms. Occasionally, the pulsation of an aneu- rism can be detected in the laryngoscopic image.^ The cases in which polypi, presumed to be tracheal, have occasionally been expectorated, such as those described by Samher^ and by Hicholls,^ may not have been cases of tracheal growth, as it is impossible to distinguish expec- torated masses as laryngeal or tracheal. Prognosis.—The prognosis is unfavorable. In cases not subjected to treat- ment, or subjected to hazardous intra-laryngeal treatment, death may take place by suffocation. In cases subjected to proper surgical procedure—tra- cheotomy—a benign growth may often lie safely removed. The same remark is applicable, to a certain extent, to sarcomas. Carcinoma, unless exceedingly circumscribed, is necessarily fatal. Death may take place by asthenia, by heemoptysis, by collajise from perforation, or by gradual or sudden apnoea. Treatment.—Despite occasional success, attempts to treat a tracheal tumor by operation through the mouth seem to me hazardous, and therefore im- proper. One death is recorded (see table) from an attempt to inject a solution of ferric chloride—a procedure which in more experienced hands had succeeded in shrivelling the remnants of a growth, portions of which had, at different intervals, been removed with forceps. Previous to manipulations in the successful case, local amesthesia was produced by pencilling the larynx first ^vith chloroform, and then, at intervals of about an hour, with a solu- tion of morphine-acetate, ten grains to tlie drachm of water, until the sensi- bility of the part w^as suflicientl}^ obtunded. This plan, at one time much in vogue in some localities, preparatory to removals of intra-laryngeal growths, seems to me in the highest degree rejirehensible, for dangerous and even fatal narcotism has been reported therefrom. I have never seen the method prac- tised, and have never cared to try it. Gerhardt is said to use colchicin with some satisfaction as a local aiuesthetic. As these lines are being written, 1 Cheesman, Medical Record, Sept. 22, 1883, p. 335. 2 Pliilosophical Transactions, No. 398. 1727 ; cited by Coxe (Am. Jour. Med. Sci., 0. S., vol. iii. p. 243. 1828-1829). ® Ibid., 1731 ; Coxe, loc. cit.