CHRONIC LARYNGITIS. 697 of exacerbation, after unaccustomed exposure, or during intercurrent attacks of broncbitis and subacute laryngitis. Similar symptoms attend tlie deuteropathic varieties of clironic laryngitis, until such time as thickenings of tissue on the one hand, or ulcerations on the other, produce their chai’acteristic manifestations of pain, dysphagia, and dyspnoea, with constitutional pyrexia. Swellings at the supra-arytenoid and arytenoid cartilages, and swelling of the epiglottis, produce difficulty in swal- lowing, while ulceration usually entails great pain in the effort. The dys- phagia, first noted with liquids and subsequently with solids also, sometimes becomes extreme—especially in tuberculous laryngitis—aliments of all kinds being painfully regurgitated. Deep ulceration of the epiglottis, especially when lateral and extending along the fold of tissue which binds this part to the pharynx, is apt to induce intense pain running up into the ears, in the direction of the salpingo-pharyngeal fold ; pain often more intense than that at the seat of the lesion. This pain is increased on deglutition. It is due, perhaps, to exposure of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve at some portion of its course; for in some instances the pain is Imt slight, although the superficial ulceration may be extensive. IJlceration in the interior of the larynx produces much pain in some cases, and but little in others, so that this symptom is by no means-proportionate to the amount of destruction. Ulceration of the vocal bauds produces dysphonia, and sometimes aphonia., but here again the cliaracter of the voice is not indicative of the extent of tlie local lesion. Tumefaction of the ventricular bands, or of the inter-ary- tenoid fold, produces impairment of voice by interference with the vibration of the vocal bands, or with their due approximation; and tumefactions in both these localities, and in others which encroach upon the glottis, produce dyspnoea and stridor. Diagnosis.—The subjective symptoms are sufficiently marked to indicate any form of the affection. In clironic catarrlial laryngitis, laryngoscopic inspection reveals diffuse congestion of the mucous membrane, often with dilatation of the capillaries on the epiglottis and on one or both vocal bands, the pearlisli lustre of the vocal bands being often destroyed. The outlines of the laryngeal structures are usually somewhat, and occasionally much thickened. There is often considerable impairment in the movements of the vocal bands on phonation—sometimes due to thickening of their substance, sometimes to thickening of the inter-arytenoid fold, or even of the ventricular bands, and sometimes to infiltration in the muscles. The latter condition cannot be detected, but is inferred from the unequal move- ments of the two sides, the paretic manifestations being usually more marked on one side than on the other, and sometimes confined to one side exclusively. Erosions are sometimes noticed at the posterior portions of the vocal bands, and erosions or tears in tlie inter-arytenoid fold. Erosions are occasionally observed elsewhere. Accumulations of mucus are often adherent at projecting parts, and sometimes over a considerable extent of sui’face. When adherent to the vocal bands, or to the inter-arytenoid fold, they are liable to be mistaken for ulcerations. In chronic glandular laryngitis the enlariced srlands can sometimes be detected on the surface of the mucous membrane, and even their orifices, it is said,^ may sometimes be seen on the epiglottis and on the posterior parts of the vocal liands, appearing as pale specks on the congested mucous memhrane, or as small red circles on the pale membrane. The imperfectly annular crusts of desiccative chronic laryngitis are readily * Mackenzie, op. cit., vol. i. p. 291.