INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 332 doubt as to what is the best course to pursue in removing them. If the polypus is so large as to till the outer orilice, it may be removed b}’ means of an ordinaiy dressing-forceps, or, better still, by means of a Hinton's polypus- forceps, provided that the growth beyiot of the firm, fibrous variety. The Fig. 896. mass should be firmly grasped between the blades of the instrument, and should then be separated from its deeper attachments l)y a combined rotary and pulling motion, or simply ly direct traction. If the growth is situated more deeply in the canal, and reflected light is required to render the mass Fig. 897. visible, such an instrument as Hinton’s forceps will he found awkward to manage, and likely to produce pain. Blake’s snare, armed with malleable steel wii*e (size Ho. 37), is the proper instrument to use under these circum- stances. By aid of the slender, silver q)rohe, the surgeon can ascertain whether the mass grows from the cutaneous walls of the canal, or from the middle ear or mastoid cells. Where the growth is of snch size as to fill the canal, it is not necessary that he should satisfy himself of the exact situation of the base of the polypus before aj^plying the loop of ivire. It is sufficient for him to ascertain by actual prolfing that he can pass his snare over the mass to a given depth (distance from the orifice of the meatus) without encountering any obstacle. The loop is then pushed in over the mass to this depth, and tightened sufficient!}' to hold the polypus firmly in its grasp. If the growth be succulent and not very firm, and especially if it can easily be rotated about its long axis, steady traction slanild be made, in the hope of pulling out the polypus, peduncle and all. In not a few cases this object will be attained ; but even if the effort fail to remove the entire growth, at least as much of the mass will he torn off as would have been if fhe Avire had been made to cut through the polypus instead of simply grasi)ing it firml}’. If the groAvth is firm in texture, and not easily rotated, it is better to nse the loop simply as a means of cutting off ])ortions of the groAvth. Hnder these circumstances traction should not be employed. As soon as the Ideeding has ceased, and the portion cut off by the Avire loop has been removed Avith the hent forceps,