HERNIA. 112(3 be found burst by the force used. In all operative proceedings of tins nature, the antiseptic method should be carefully observed so as to diminish the etfects of the subsequent exposure to air. Inguinal Hernia. We now proceed to consider in detail the special forms of hernia, com- mencing with the most common, viz.. Inguinal Hernia. Frequency of Inguinal Hernia.—Out of 93,355 cases, in the statistics collected by Biyant, there were 7 inguinal to 1 femoral. In upwards of 3000 cases seen by myself, the proportion of inguinal hernia has been rather more than this, viz., about 8 inguinal to 1 femoral. In a considerable number of cases a rupture is more or less developed on both sides, double crural hernia being rather more frequent than double inguinal. Often the rupture is crural on one side and inguinal on the otlier, and occasionally three ruptures have been present, an umbilical one in addition to the other two varieties. This last condition has been most commonly seen in infants, occasionally associated with undescended testis, and all resulting from slowness or arrest of develop- ment in the parts. Hernia is more common in males than in females in about the proportion of 4 to 1. In the male sex the inguinal variety is more frequently found than in the female. In the former the proportion of the inguinal form of hernia to the crural is at the rate of 50 to 1. Inguinal hei’iiia is found more frequently on the right side of the body than on the left side, in the proportion of about 3 to 2. In about twenty-live per cent, of cases it is found on both sides. The greater frequency on the right side is due mainly to the lower position of the root-attachment of the mesentery on that side, and to the pressure of the liver above. Something may be due also to the more frequent use and stronger muscles of the right arm and leg. Parts involved in Inguinal Hernia.—These are situated in the groin just above the groove which indicates Poupart’s ligament, which is a strong band of tendinous fibres forming part of the insertion of tlie tendon of the external oblique, and reacbing from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubis. On removing the skin and the two layers of superficial fascia, it is seen (Fig. 112G) that two small vessels pass upwards and inwards from the common femoral, and cross Poupart’s liga- ment and the inguinal canal. They ai’e the superjicial epigastric and the superficial external padic, the first lying external, almost over the position of the deep ring, and the last internally placed, and crossing the cord near the superficial ring; crossing in the same direction inwai’ds, below this, is another branch, the deep external padic artery. The deeper layer of siq)erficial fascia is attached loosely to I^oupart’s ligament, and is continuous with the deeper layer of perineal fascia continued over the spermatic cord. The nerves are branches of the illo-ingainal and ilio-hgpogastric, offsets of the lumbar jilexus, the former (?/) emerging from the superficial ring (at i). The lymphatics pass downwards to tbe superior inguinal glands (c), which ai’e arranged between tbe two layers of fascia on a line parallel to and above Poupart’s ligament, and join tbe femoral or crural glands placed directly below them. Then is exposed the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, commencing at the termination of its muscular belljq near the anterior superior iliac spine, passing downwards and inwards, obliquel}', in fiat bands of fibres, to be inserted externally into the pubic spine as Poupart's