434 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. young children, or in those past middle life. Its destructive inroads are widespread and terrible, and, as it is necessarily fatal, palliative measures alone can be adopted; all experience deprecates any recourse to operative interference. The remaining varieties of tumor that may occur in the nasal passages, are very infrequent, and demand but passing notice. Adenoma is developed from the glands of the mucous membrane, and may not only attain a great size, but may reach from the nasal passages into all the adjacent cavities. Neuroma.—A case is reported by Gerdy,’ in which a neurilemmatous tumor, connected with the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, made its way into the nostril through the spheno-palatine foramen. Attempts at evulsion, the growth having been mistaken for a nasal polypus, resulted in meningitis and death. Echinococci.—Fraenkeh refers to the presence of these tumors, which he regards as of rare occurrence. Cysts.—True cystic tumors occasionally occur in the nasal cavities proper, and originate in the lining mucous membrane. I have seen and treated one such case, in which the tumor, closely resemliling an ordinary mucous polypus, both in color and configuration, was seen by posterior rhinoscopic examination to be situated in the left posterior naris; seized by the polypus- forceps, it burst, discharged its contents, and all vestiges quickly disappeared ; there was no recurrence.^ A similar case, tlie cyst being located in the right posterior nai'is, is reported by Johnson,^ and others by Seiler® and Ingals.® ISTeuroses of the Hasal Passages. The olfactory nerve is the only one upon whose integrity depends the sense of smell. After passing the lamina cribrosa of the ethmoid bone, its branches, as is well known, are distributed in the mucous membrane covering the upper part of the septum, to a limited extent, and more richly to that covei’ing spe- cially the upper turbinated bone and perhaps the upper jiart of the middle one. The epithelium of these parts has a special arrangement, also, which differs from tliat of the lower portion of the nasal passage, and which may have some special relation to the function of olfaction. The terminal branches of the nerve are probably in immediate connection with certain peculiar terminal organs, which receive olfactory impressions and conduct them to the nerve- fibi’es. nothing certain, however, is known in regard to the central course of the olfactory nerves; the so-called external root contains the greater number of fibres, and may be traced centrally into the neighborhood of the island of Reil. (Erb.) The first and second divisions of the fifth pair constitute the true sensory nerves of the mucous meml)rane of the nose; they conduct tactile and common sensations, but ai-e uninfluenced by odorous substances.'^ These anatomical and physiological facts have a direct bearing, as will be seen, upon the various neuroses to be considered. It may be appropriate to here likewise recall to recollection the necessity for carefully distinguishing between the sense of taste and that of smell, in investigating a supposed case ' Des Polypes, p. 110. * Ziemssen’s Cyclopsedia, vol. iv. p. 171. ^ Pliila. Medical Times, Dec, 15, 1883. British Medical Journal, May, 1874. s Phila. Med. Times, vol. xiv. No. 423, Feb. 9, 1884. ® Chicago Med. Review, vol. ix. No. 5, Feb. 2, 1884. 7 See also Althaus, The Physiology and Pathology of the Olfactory Nerve. Lancet, May 14, 1881, et seq. *