CATARACT. 249 anticipate hemorrhage into the chamber. The very sharp cystotome, inserted flatwise with its point slightly upwards, is passed carefully down on the ante- rior capsule, till it reaches, or even passes behind, the lower edge of the pupil. Then, turning the point towards the capsule, it is drawn lightly ujjwards to the edge of the lens, making a vertical and long incision. This done, the curette or tortoise-shell spoon is placed with its convex surface against the lower edge of the cornea, and gentle pressure is made backwards. If in a moment the wound gapes, showing that the lens is engaging, the scoop may be slid slowly upwards over the cornea, till tlie lens esca^tes. Great gentleness is required at the last, to avoid loss of vitreous before the speciilum can be removed. The moment the lens escapes, the stop must be loosed, the branches carefully brought together, and the s}»eculum removed with great quickness and skill, so as not to press the eye. As a rule, I hold the eye with the fixa- tion forceps till the lens escapes, and then instantly let go. In prominent eyes, or when escape of vitreous is imminent, we may let go the eye and remove the speculum the moment the iridectomy is finished and the capsule divided. Then closing the eye with a w'ad of charpie or cotton, for a few seconds, the lids are cautiously separated by the fingers, and by means of pressure through the lower lid the lens is made to escape. Or, the lower lid being well drawn down, the scoop may be used for pressure. After the exit of the lens, the eye is shut for a few minutes, with a mass of cotton gently pressed on the closed lids. Then carefully opening it, a critical inspection of the pupil is made, to see if any soft cortical is left behind. If so, it must be carefully w^orked out, so as to secure a clear black pupil. To do this, request the patient to turn the oyc down and try to hold it there. Tlien raising the upi»er lid above the incision, make careful sliding movements over tlie cornea from below upwards, through the metliiim of the lower lid. In this way the tVagments may be slowly and very carefully coaxed out. If one or two trials do not succeed, let the eye l)e closed with a soft compress and bandage, for half an hour or more, till the aqueous reaccum- ulates. Then the same manceuvre will probably float out the soft fragments. The success of the operation will depend largely upon the ability to get away all the fragments from the chamber, and secure the most perfect coaptation of tlie incision. If any strings of coagulum, or shreds of capsule, hang in the wound, they must be removed with the small forceps. Without all these precautions, union by first intention cannot lie expected, and the operation will be a more or less complete failure. The section should lie ample and regular, and no iris or prolapsed capsule should be left in the cut. If a black pupil, free from blood, is secured, it is wise to test the vision by lotting the patient count your fingers. Finally, both eyes should be closed by a roller so as to preserve their most perfect rest. A piece of old, soft cloth, large enough to cover both eyes, and torn at one edge to adapt it to the nose, is first adjusted. Then pellets of cotton are put over the eyes, to fill out the inequalities and make uniform pressure, and are followed by the application of the roller, which must not be tiglit enough to cause pain. For five or six hours, the })atient, if possilfle, must lie very still, and flat on his back. If by that time, the bandage is at all deranged, let it be readjusted, without opening the eyes, and let the patient be kept quietly on his back till morning. Fresh dressings and bandage arc then applied. On removing the soiled ones, if the lids are free from puifiness and the [>ads dry, all is well, and the eye should not be opened. 8onie swelling of the lids and yellowish discharge indicate dan- gerous reaction, and the eye should then be opened and inspected. In case the patient sutters little or no pain, and all looks promising, the dressings should be changed twice a day for two or three days, before opening and inspecting the eye. A careful night-nurse sliould watch the patient in sleep,