532 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. })acted tootli had given rise to so much inflammation about the jaw and gums, that, when 1 was flrst consulted, I believed the patient to besuttering from a rapidly growing tumor of the interior of the jaw, and recommended removal of a portion of the hone. Fortunately, on the subsidence of the inflammation the case more resembled one of necrosis, and, on attempting to search for and remove a sequestrum, I was enabled to enucleate an odontoma measuring one and one-half inches by one and one-quarter, and weighing three hundred and fifteen grains.^ The tumor consisted of dental tissues irregularly arranged, and represented one or two molar teeth. Displacement of otherwise healthy and well-formed teeth may give rise to enlargement of either jaw, and even supernumerary teeth have been known to form distinct tumors connected with tlie maxillary bones. Such cases must necessarily be very difficult of diagnosis, and are best treated by exploration before any serious mutilation is undertaken. Cysts op the Jaws.—The developments of cysts in connection wuth uncut teeth is a subject of great practical importance for the sui’geon, since mistakes in the diagnosis and treatment of these cases are far from rare. Dentigerous cysts may occur in either jaw, a tumor being gradually formed, the grou’th of which is slow and for tbe most part painless. A careful examination of the neighboring teeth will be the best guide to a correct diagnosis, for, if a tooth be absent, or, as sometimes happens, if a temporaiy tooth occupy the position of a permanent one, the tumor in all probability is a dentigerous cyst, and no mutilating operation should be undertaken without first opening up the tumor to discover its nature. Dentigerous cysts arise in connection ivith teeth which from some cause have remained within the jaw, and have undergone a certain amount of irritation. They are most commonly connected with the permanent teeth, though I have met with a cj^st in a hoy of four, in Avhom a temporaiy canine tooth was Avanting, and on cutting into the c}'st I extracted seven small, irregular nodules of dentine and enamel. Frequently the tooth in fault is inverted, but often there is nothing to explain tlie formation of the cyst, Avliicli is apparently due to the increase in quantity of the small amount of fluid ordinarily found in the tooth-sac after the completion of the development of the enamel. The cyst-Avall is usually too dense to giA^e rise to the crackling so characteristic of the presence of fluid Avithiu, and is lined by a thick, vascular membrane. Usually the tooth projects through this membrane, but I have met Avith a case in Avhich a large cyst of the loAver jaAv Avas carefully searched in A^ain for a tooth, Avhich hoAveA^er made its appearance some Aveeks after, Avhen the membrane had been to a great extent destroyed by suppuration. Dentigerous cj^sts have been mistaken for solid groAvths on many occasions, one of the most remarkable specimens of the kind being one side of the loAver jaAv, removed in error from a girl of thirteen by the late Mr. Fearn, and now in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Here the tAvo plates of the lower jaAV are expanded from the angle on the left to hoA’ond the symphysis on the right side, forming a hony C3'st, the cavit}’ of Avhich is lined Avith a thick, vascular membrane through Avhich a Avell-formed, perma- nent canine tooth projects. The treatment of these cases of dentigerous cj’st is sufficient!}" simple Avhen once a diagnosis has lieen made b}" an exploratoiy puncture. The removal of a portion of the c^'st-AAudl, so as to alloAv of a search for and the remoA^al of the hidden tooth, is all that is necessary, the cyst shrinking doAvn as soon as a free vent for the contained fluid is secured. Occasionall}' the Transactions of Clinical Society, 1882.