424 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. Evulsion by means of the wire-snare is |jreferred to other methods by many operators, Avho, through practice, have become expeditious and skilful in applying the wire over the polypus, and pressing it up well towards its attach- nient—sometimes a small, blunt fork, passed into the nostril, assists this step of the })rocedure—-and it is claimed by many that the method is less painful and more thorough, and that there is less hemorrhage and danger of laceration, than if the forceps is used. (Durham.) Among the many ditferent forms of wire-snare, or ecraseur^ that of Hilton, modified by Blake, and the snare of Jarvis, are perhaps the best. The wire is passed about the growth, and as near as possible about its pedicle, and then draivn home, by sliding back with the fingers tlie cross-piece on the bar of the instrument to which the ends of the wire are attached. Thus securely fastened about the tumor, this is torn away by withdrawing the instrument from the nose. This procedure answers for growths situated anteriorly, and easily accessible; but when they are located far hack in the nasal passage, and, perhaps, hanging into the cavity of the pharynx, they must be encircled by a looj) of wire passed through the nose into the mouth, tlie tumor being controlled by a strong thread previously passed through it, if possible, and coming out of the mouth. The loop of wire having reached into the pharynx, or around the velum into the mouth, is guided over the growth by the fingei’s of the operator, passed behind the soft palate. A double canula is now sometimes passed over the ends of the wire, through the nose, and the latter is then drawn home so as to strangulate and thus cut away the growth. I can see no object in prolonging this process of strangulation through several days, until the growtli drops off from its attach- ment, as is sometimes done. Bellocq’s canula is sometimes of assistance in passing the wire about the polypus-in the above procedure, as well as the tying forwards of the soft palate, as recommended by Wales, by means of tapes or elastic cords passed through the nose, brought out through the mouth, and fastened over tlie upper lip. Much space is thus gained in the pharynx, in which to carry out the recpiisite manipulations. Much depends, however, in any instance, upon the skill and ingenuity of the operator, and the particular methods of attaining success must be suited to tlie indications presented by each individual case. Gross succeeded in one instance in breaking off a polypus hanging down into the fauces, by simply introducing the index finger info the nioutli, and carrying it around the soft palate; and it is true that polypi may occasionally be removed by the fingers alone—one being fhrust into and through the posterior naris, the otlier through the anterior, and the growth, grasped between them, being pushed backwards and forwards until its attach- ment is torn through. (IHorand and Sabatier.) ^McRuer, reviving the procedure recommended by Hippocrates, passed a piece of catgut through the affected nosti’il, and, after it liad reached into the pharynx, tied a piece of sponge to it; the latter was then forcibly drawn through the nose, tearing away in its course the adventitious growths. This method, or a modification of it, has recently been advocated also by Voltolini.^ In any case, care must be taken to secure the tumor previous to its division from its attachment, to prevent its falling upon, or into, the larynx. Knives and scissors are rarel}" used to excise polypi, unless these be situated in the anterior nares, and thus easily accessible. The toothed scissors of Richardson would here play a useful part. Amesthetics may be required in any of the above operations, but are a decided disadvantage, and their use should be avoided if possible, and the intelligent co-operation of the patient thus secured. Tamponing the posterior nares, on account of hemorrhage, will be rarely requisite. The galvano-cautery^ which was first used in the removal of polypi by ' Monatsschr. fiir Ohrenlieilk., No. I. 1882.