336 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. men, I am satisfied, must be considered as an unusually large one, for among a number of temporal bones in my possession, I can find no other in wliicii the mastoid cells are of equally great extent. Strictly speaking, the term mastoid process refers only to the lower, teat-like projection of the hone, hut in this article, and in fact in medical parlance generally, the expression is intended to refer to all that portion of the temporal hone which contains the honeycombed structure usually found in the mastoid process. This peculiar structure consists of a number of small cavities or cells, which vary greatly in size and shape, not only in the same temporal hone, but also in those be- longing to different individuals. Many of these cells, probably the great ma- jority of them, are lined wdth an extension of the mucous membrane of the tympanum, and communicate one with another. Under normal conditions they contain air, and are therefore spoken of as the pneumatic cells. The remaining cavities are filled with a fatty tissue resembling that which is found in the diploe of fresh bones. Zuckerkandl, who examined one hundred mas- toid processes in the fresh state, and one hundred and fifty macerated tempo- ral bones, found that air-cavities were wholly lacking in twenty per cent, of the specimens, and that perfectly pneumatic mastoid processes, Avithout any dip- loetic spaces, represented only 38.6 per cent, of the entire number. Further- more, he ascertained the fact that in some individuals only the lower half of the process was diploetic, Avhile the upper half Avas entirely pneumatic. These comparatively recent researches throAv a great deal of light upon the pathology of acute and chronic purulent affections of the middle ear. They make it easy to comprehend how in one individual, wdiose mastoid cells are quite large and communicate freely one Avith another, an inflammation of the mid- dle ear may, almost at the very onset of the attack, immlve the mastoid region, Avhile in another the same disease, in perhaps a far more severe form, wdll leave this region wholly unaffected. Unfortunately, Zuckerkandl’s researches do not show AAdiether Ave are permitted to consider the absence of pneumatic cells, in the specimens examined by him, as a perfectly natural peculiarity of construction, or Avhether these spaces may not have been oblite- rated by an unnatural hypertrophy of the bone, the result of disease. We must next consider the mastoid cells in their relations to neighboring parts. Superiorly, they may extend as high as to Avithin half an inch of the temporo-parietal suture. In this comparatively thin part of the temporal bone, they are se]^)arated on the outer side from the periosteum, and on the inner side from the dura mater, by a dense layer of bone, Avhich varies from one to three millimetres in thickness. Anteriorhq the pneumatic cells extend forward over the external auditory canal. Posteriorly, they cease somcAvhat abruptly, that is, Avithout any material dimiimtion in size, in the immediate vicinity of the temporo-occipital suture. Ilyrtl, according to the authority of ScliAvartze, found three skulls (among six hundred Avhich he examined for this purpose) in Avhich the pneumatic cells extended CA^en into the occipital bone. I once, in trephining the skull, found pus between the outer and inner tables of the occipital bone, a short distance back of the temporo-occipital suture, and thought, at the time, that it had travelled along the dijiloetic spaces from a large abscess which existed in the body of the mastoid process. In the light of Ilyrtl’s discovery, it noAV seems to me at least equally probable that the pus found at this remote sjtot Avas really l}dng in pneumatic spaces Avhich stood in direct communication Avith those immediately surrounding the abscess. The lateral sinus occupies a groove in the bone in the immediate vicinity of the posterior limits of the mastoid cells. Aot far from the centre of the irregularly shaped mass of mastoid cells, but much nearer to tlieir inner than to their outer limit, lies a single cavity, knoAvn by the name of the “antrum,” or “horizontal portion of the mastoid cells,” as it is termed by