DISEASES OF THE ANTRUM OF HIGHMORE. 449 cavity into the nasal passage, or, in rarer instances, through the socket of some tooth that has been removed, or fistulous passage that has been made; or whether, no ready outlet presenting itself, and the natural one being closed by the swelling of the tissues about it, the pus is pent up, a confined abscess resulting. In the first class of cases, the only indication that the process of suppuration is proceeding within tlie antrum, aside from the probably inflamed and swollen appearance of the nasal passage, may be the occasional discharge of cpiantities of offensive pus into the nose—especially when the head is held in certain positions—and the ozaenic smell; and the cause will be found, in many cases, as has been stated, to be a decayed tooth, one fang of which, perhaps, protrudes through the floor of the cavity. An examination with the nasal speculum may disclose the fact that pus trickles into the middle meatus of the nose, and the diagnosis is thus confirmed. If a decayed and tender tooth be determined upon as tlie cause, it may be extracted; and through the passage thus made, and enlarged, if necessary, hy means of a drill, the cavity of the antrum may be thoroughly washed out with disinfectant solutions. This will, in all probability, be all that is necessary to eft'ect a cure. Should, however, discharge persist, a thorough exploration of the whole antrum, with scoop and probe, must be made through the perfora- tion, in order to detect the foreign body, necrosed bone, fragment of tooth, or the like, which lies at the root of tlie matter and keeps up the discharge. If, on the other hand, the matter is confined within the antrum—if abscess, in other words, result—the symptoms are marked and painful. As a class, these do not vary from the symptoms attendant upon like collections of matter within resistant walls in other parts of the body, though certain signs are, in this instance, incident to its particular locality. Thus, the expansion of the whole jaw; the elevation of the malar bone, with its fossa full and prominent; the ap}iarent elongation of the molar teeth upon the affected side; the convexity of the normally concave hard palate ; and tlie swelling of all the soft parts of the nasal passage, as shown in both anterior and pos- terior rhinoscopic examination, bespeak beyond doubt the true nature and exact situation of the disease. If relief be delayed, the eyeball may be dis- placed, and amaurosis—conserpient upon }»eriosteal inflammation extending into the orbit and involving the shcatli of the 0}itic nerve—may occur. The ultimate result, if nature be unaided by the surgeon, will vary much. Occa- sionally the abscess bursts into the nose, or the pus finds its way out, by bur- rowing alongside the fang of some tooth, into the mouth. More rarely it perforates the cheek or the floor of the orbit, and passes into the lower eyelid, liefore, however, these latter accidents ha[)pen, fiuctuation will usually be dis- tinctly perce[)tible at some point upon the anterior surface, or in the hard palate, and the appropriate means of relief will be thereby suggested. If doubt still exist—if some })Ortion of the bony walls lie not so thin but that it yields on pressure, and gives to the finger the sensation of dry, tightly-stretched parchment—the use of a small trocar will serve to draw off enough fluid, usually no thicker than ordinary pus, and sometimes serous, to ascertain the nature of the swelling; and can do no injury to a solid growth if such be the true character of the ex})ansion. Diagnosis is only difficult where the dis- tension of the sinus goes on foi- years, as it sometimes does, slowly and pain- lessly, and with so little local disturbance that the idea of an aliscess is not suggested ; and in those rare instances in which abscess is complicnted by the jiresence of a tumor within the antrum. Dotli classes of cases, and tbe errors in treatment to which a faulty diagnosis may lead, are illustrated by instances in Watson’s work,* and are alhaled to liy other authors. VOL. V.—29 Op. cit., p. lt)2.