INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR, 334 growths, I dismiss the patient with careful instructions about cleansing the ear once or twice every day. Under this plan of systematic cleansing, the bone-disease is sometimes arrested, and the discharge ceases, Relapses, how- ever, are common. In a few cases, as I have already said, there is no discoverable disease of the bone, the external auditory canal appears to be sound, and nothing like granulation-tissne can be found in the middle ear. The promptly successful results of the treatment in these cases warrant the conclusion that the only pathological lesion upon which the discharge depends, must he a relaxed condition of the mucous membrane of the middle ear; a condition which, as I have already said, is probably characterized by paresis of the walls of the bloodvessels, and by the consecpient infiltration of the mucous mem- brane with lymphoid cells and the watery elements of the blood. The application of a solution of nitrate of silver (from two to five grains to the ounce of water) to the entire lining membrane of the middle ear, either by means of the middle-ear pipette or in some coarser manner, usually brings the relaxed mucous membrane soon hack to a cpiiet, non-seci’eting condition. In these cases, as a matter of course, the diagnosis can only be made after a cure has been etfected. "With regard to the employment of more general measures in the treatment of chronic purulent infiammation of the middle ear, I must refer the reader to tlie remarks on acute purulent inflammation of this region. Diseases of the Mastoid Process. It has been the custom to speak of diseases of the mastoid process as if they were separate and distinct from the different types of infiammation of the middle ear. While, as a matter of fact, the two groups of diseases are in- separably connected, as a matter of expediency it is better that this custom of separating them should be maintained. The mastoid cells Fig. 898. ordinarily participate in whatever inflammatory processes take place in the tympanic cavity, without manifesting any symptom that is likely to attract our attention to that cpiarter. In some cases, however, the symptoms pointing particularly to this region out'weigh the others, and under such circumstances no hesitation need be felt in grouping these cases together under the title of diseases of the mastoid process. Before attempting to portray this class of cases, I will first describe briefly some of the more important anatomical features of the mastoid region, as it will be very difficult, without such knowledge, to under- stand the varying picture of mastoid disease. At birth, the mastoid process consists of a small, flat- tened tuberosity, containing but one cell of material size— viz., the antrum. During the first year of infancy this cavity nsnally lies so near the outer surface of the process that only a thin wall of bone, perhaps onl}" a millimetre in thickness, separates it from the external periosteum. Furthermore, this thin partition of bone is often perfo- rated b}^ quite a large opening, through which passes at least one of the mastoid emissary veins. It is important to rememlier these relations of the parts as they exist in infancy; for without this knowledge we might experience great alarm over phenomena Avliich, indeed, seem to point to serious disease, but which appear Mastoid process of a child two or three years old. The darkly shaded region, above and toward the left, represents the antrum, A large pneuma- tic cell, whose thin outer wall of bone has been broken away, may be seen a little above the tip of the process.