932 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. Dr. Colles, in his lectures, relates the case of a carpenter who stumbled and fell upon the edge of a chisel, which he was carrying in his breeches-pocket; the chisel pene- trated the peritoneal cavity, and in doing so, wounded the epigastric artery. The man, pale, exhausted, cold, and pulseless—in fact, collapsed and faint—died in the course of a few hours. The cavity of the peritoneum was found distended with blood. Kavaton^ relates the case of a soldier, wounded by a sword wliich entered the abdo- men, and, passing between the viscera without injuring them, opened the vena cava. Blood at once tilled tlie peritoneal cavity, and death was immediate. He mentions^ another and similar case, in which botli aorta and vena cava were opened without any other internal injui'y. Ilildanus records the case of a young man who was stabbed between the false ribs and the umbilicus, and who died instantly from internal hemorrhage from a wound of the unobliterated umbilical vein. Sir E. Pakenham was killed on the spot at New Orleans, by hemorrhage from a wound in whicli the common iliac artery was divided ; and Guthrie, on whose authority this statement is made, records a very similar accident^ to a soldier who was wounded by a musket-ball, which entered at the groin and made its exit at the back. When seen by a surgeon for the first time, on the fifth day after the accident, the foot and leg were mortified. The countenance had a cadaverous appearance ; the pulse was small and weak; there were some nausea and retching, and the jjatient died eleven days after the injury. On post-mortem examination, the ball was found to have completely divided the external iliac artery ; about a pint of coagulated blood, mixed wdth some exces- sively fetid pus, was collected in the pelvis ; the ends of the artery had receded con- siderably from each other, and a coagulum had formed in each. There were signs of peritoneal inflammation, the intestines had not been wounded, and the ball in passing out had splintered the upper edge of the back of the ilium. In South’s Chelius* is to be found the record of a case in which an iron spike tra- versed the abdomen of a man, aged fifty-two ; tore the right common iliac vein ; and deeply indented the third lumbar vertebra without injuring the viscera. The patient had vomiting, pain, and tenderness, and died on the third day. There were no marks of peritonitis, but the omentum was adlierent to the external wound. During the War of the Rebellion,® an elongated ball entered one inch to the right oi' a soldier’s umbilicus, passed inward through the intestine, and out close to the spine, dividing the lowest intercostal artery. The man died the same day from hemorrhage. On the same page of the History is the report of another fatal case, in which death occurred from repeated hemorrhages from the musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric arteries ; the ball had entered two inches above and to the left of the ensiform cartilage, and passed out in the left hypochondrium, o[)posite to the spleen. The splenic flexure of the colon was gangrenous, and there was a large abscess-sac between the points of entrance and exit. An interesting case is also reported (p. 175), in which both epi- gastric arteries were completely divided by a ball which entered at one inguinal region and emerged at the other, cutting through the entire abdominal wall from one side to tlie other about half tin inch above the jaibis, and leaving a gaping wound about eight inches long. The man was convalescent on the twenty-sixth day. C. J. M. Langen- beck relates an instance of fatal hemorrhage from a stab in the belly, in which the bleeding was found to proceed from the ascending branch of the left colic artery. Treatment.—It is important that there should he fixed rules in dealing tvith these cases of penetrating wound attended with hemorrhage from wounded vessels. The first is, fhtit reliance must not he placed upon any astringents, or compression by ptuls and bandages. In hemoriliage from a wounded liver or kidney, the internal administration of ergot, and the local application of iced-compresses, are often of service, and are the oidj^ means available ; but ' Cliiriii’gie lUAiniSe, etc., Obs. CCXLIII. ^ Ibid., Obs. CCXLIV. 3 On Wounds and Injuries of the Abdomen, etc., p. 62, Case XCIII. ^ System of Surgery, vol. i. j). J.’iS. 6 Medical and Surgical History, etc., Part II., Surg. Vol., p. 176.