ANATOMY OF THE EYE. 175 that the outer percipient elements of the Fig. 848. retina (the rods and cones) look for their functional nutrition. Anteriorly, the choroid thickens into a wedge-shaped portion, called the ciliary body. From the oi’a serrata retiiae to within 1 mm, of the sclero-corneal junction, the thick- ness gradually increases, terminating in tlie ciliary processes, wliich surround tlie margin of the crystalline lens without touclung it. The processes are about seventy in number, and make a beautiful picture when the eye is divided through tlie equator and they are looked at from behind. A good idea of them and of the vasa vorticosa is obtained from Fig. 818. Continuous with the ciliary pro- cesses, and gaining from them part of its peripheral insertion, is the iris. Passing from the points of the ciliary processes to the margin of the lens, is the folded zone of Zinn, or suspensory ligament. The Lens, agglutinated to the hyaloid fossa of the vitreous, and fastened by this ligament to the ciliary [irocesses, makes a com}>letc septum between the vitreous behind and the aqueous in front. (Fig. 849.) Sagittal section of eyeliall. X 3. The retina has been removed with the pigment membrane, etc. Cc. Ciliary body; Vv. Veu® vorticosa;, visible through the inner layer of the choroid. (After Merkel.) Fig. 849. Meridional section of anterior half of human eyeball. Sc. Sclerotic; Ch. Choroid: L.i. Internal limiting membrane : M.c. Ciliary muscle; L.a. Annular ligament; P.c. Ciliary processes; Z. Ciliary zone: L Iris; L. Lens ; N.l. Nucleus of lens ; O. Cornea ; P.c.r. Ciliary portion of the retina. X 4. (After Gerlach.) Oil the outer surface of the ciliary body, next the sclera, lies a thickened, grayish ring, from 3 to 4 mm. wide—the ciliary muscle—by the action of whicli, on the lens, the eye is focused for distinct vision at different distances. This muscle takes its fixed affachnient from the inner surface of the sclei’a, in a circular, tendinous ring, corresponding to the inner wall of the canal of Bclilemm IFig. 850). From this attachment it sends some tendinous fibres to the iris, ami large numbers to the radiating and circular, non-striated fibres