TUMORS OF THE SKULL. 155 Connection.—The parenchymatous growth may assume the form of a dis- tinct or an ill-defined conversion of the diploe into a compact or ivory mass. Usually, however, a tumor is formed which may project externally, inter- nally, or in both directions. Sometimes the connections of exostoses, especially of the larger masses, to the skull, appear to be very slender, a slight degree of force separating the tumor, and separation, indeed, in rare instances, occurring spontaneously.^ As a rule, the inner or outer table, as the case may be, of the afiected spot, is lost in the tumor, but in the Musee Dupuy- tren is a skull with a cancellous enostosis, beneath which the inner table is to be traced, distinct and unaltered, between the tumor and the rest of the skull. Sir Prescott Ilewett states that he has seen similar cases.^ Some ci’anial osteomata may grow from the sinuses of the skull, mostly from those in the frontal bone, but also from the ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses. Much has been written as to the origin of bony growths in tliese parts, but still nothing certain is known as to their anatomical parentage. Certain it is that they form some of the very densest, largest, and most irregular exostoses of the skull; that they may cause terrible deformity ; and that, at the same time, they often possess a singularly frail connection with the main bone. The bone in the vicinity of cranial osteomata may be normal, but it is often unduly porous, and is sometimes thickened. If an exostosis involves a suture, it usually solders the two connected bones together at the spot afiected ; but IlewetP records a case in which a suture was continuous through the middle of an ivory exostosis, so that when the skull was disarticulated the mass appeared in halves. /S'm;'.—Most exostoses grow from the vault, and most commonly from the frontal bone; next in frecpiency must be mentioned the mastoid process, and lastly, the occipital bone. As before observed, the tumors are often symme- trical. A few osteomata have been met with on the base of the skull, and allusion has already been made to those which spring from the sinuses. Number., Shape., and Size.—The number of growths in any given case varies. If very large, the mass is usually single, and this remark especially applies to those tumors which grow from the sinuses. They are very often multiple and irregularly distributed. A skull in St. George’s Hospital Museum shows no less than nineteen exostoses. The shape of these tumors varies greatly. Some are rounded elevations, others assume a conical shape, others are pointed and spine-like, and others most iri-egular and bossy. Occasionally they have a pedicle, and this may give tliem a very peculiar outline on section.^ The majority, however, possess a broad base. Their size is erpially varialjle. Some ivory exostoses may be met with as small as little peas; and they commonly do not exceed the size of a hazel-nut. The cancellous tumors are often larger, and may indeed attain a considerable size. The largest bone masses, how- ever, belong to those tumors that spring from the sinuses. SympUnns.—As a rule, these growths, when external, cause absolutely no symptoms, although those of iufiammatory origin may be at first associated with vague pains, worse at night and increased l>y pressure. Their rate of growth is slow, and is measured by years, and they may at any time become stationary. The enostoses may also cause no trouble, Init in some cases they induce brain disturbances, shown by such symptoms as severe headache, con- vulsions, epilepsy, amaurosis, deafness, and partial paralysis. In one case at least (Lecat’s) the patient died of compression, and M. Gayraud speaks of a patient dying with symptoms of meningitis.® Those near the orbit may ' See instances quoted by Sir P. Hewett, loo. cit., p. 3. Loc. cit., p. 4. ^ Loc. cit., p. 6, Qnain, Trans. Path. Soc. Lend., vol. iii. p. 149. ® Diet. Flnoycl. des Sc. Med., Art. Crane, p. 528. 1879.