1164 HERNIA. begin to shrink, ami finally disappear. In cases of slow and late develop- ment, a thread-like pedicle can be seen even at the full period of gestation. Soon afterwards, the tubes of the urachus, occupying the lower part of the umbilical opening, shrivel and close up. And here again we occasionally find a delay in development, and at birth there may be a patulous opening at the navel, through Avbich a little urine may trickle. In more decided cases of very early aiTest of development in this region, Ave may have produced the deformities knoAvn as ectopia Amsicie and epispadias. The hypogastric arteries and umbilical vein persist until birth is fairly accomplished. Some- times the retlected tube of the amnion, the vagina funiculi wnbilicalis, is found to pass into the umbilical cord and to contain a portion of small intes- tine e\mn at birth. In such cases the navel-string is of unusual diameter close to tbe foetus, and compressible, dilating Avhen the child cries. Care must be taken not to include the intestine by tying the cord too close to the body of tlie child in such cases. Here is an intra-uterine formation of um- bilical hernia, rendered more decided and kept open by the struggles and crying of the neAvly born infant. And at tins point is the original weakness of tbe navel, in eases of congenital umbilical hernia, to be looked for. When this condition is detected at birth, it is best, after the oi’dinary liga- ture and division of the navel-string at about an inch and a half from the abdomen of the infant, to scpieeze out of the persistent sac all traces of the presence of intestine or omentum, and then to tie the cord again firmly close to the surface of the abdomen. By this means the occurrence of an umbili- cal rupture may be prevented dining the cries of tbe child soon after birth. The develo})inental tendency to close up the navel-opening is A’ery strong, and requires only a little aid from art to secure its accomplishment. On each side of the opening is one of the broad, expanded recti abdominis muscles, inclosed in the split sheath of tbe internal oblique, fortified on its posterior part by the tendon of tbe transversalis, and on tbe anterior by that of the external oblique muscle. Opposite to the navel is found one of tlie linear, tendinous intersections of the recti muscles, pursuing an irregu- larly horizontal course, and closely adherent to tlie enveloping tendinous sheath. On the inner side, the sheaths of the tAvo recti muscles are united in the median line by crossing and interlacing fibres, forming the lima alba, so that those of one side pass over by a decussation to the opposite side of tbe aI)domen. At the navel, the linea alba is at its Avidest part, and a close dis- section Avill shoAv that some of the fibres at this ];ioint are arranged so as to surround, in a parabolic curve, the opening for the umbilical vessels. These curves, arranged in difierent directions, give the etiect of a circular arrange- ment to the investing fibres, Avhich by this contraction tend poAverfull}’ to close up the umlhlical opening. The closure is aided also by the contraction and consequent Avidening of the bellies of the recti muscles in expiratory and expulsive etforts. The contraction of tbe oblique muscles also aids, by the cross pull Avliich it exercises upon the decussating fibres at the navel. To some extent the traction of the pyramidales muscles, Avhich are proportion- ately largely deA^elo})ed in the infant, and are also attached to decussating and more or less longitudinal fibres, contributes to close up tbe umbilical opening. It may easily, tlierefore, be inferred that, iqi to the period of puberty, exercise of the abdominal muscles by proper gymnastics aa ill aid in the cure of congenital umbilical hernia. The fascia transversalis in the umbilical region is thin, Init tougher and Avith closer fibres than in other parts of the abdominal Avail, and it is here blended closely aaIHi tbe decussating fibres of the linea alba. The serous peritoneum is also thinner, tougher, and more closely adherent than else- Avhere. In congenital hernia the sac is usually A^ery thin, and its covering