1032 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1 Beruutz aud Uoupil, oj). cit., vol. ii. p. 23. “ Lancet, July 24, 1852, p. 75. there were two otlier communications with the rectnm, close to tlie tirst, but leading into an abscess-cavity by the side of the ovary. The left ureter was mucli thickened and intlamed; the greater portion of the secreting structure of the left kidney was destroyed ; four ounces of creamy pus were contained within it, and the organ was somewhat similar to a sacculated kidney. The bladder was full of pus, but there was no cystitis. Tubercular ovaritis is very analogous to tubercular orcliitis: there is in each organ an admixture of pus and softened tubercle; tind, as in the ease of the tuberculous testis the e})ididymis and vas deferens become the deposit of tuberculous material, which infiltrates their lining mend)rane and often breaks down into pus, so in the case of the ovary, the Fallo})ian tube sutlers in the same way. Further, the serous and purulent etfusions and the tuber- cular inflammation of the tunica vaginalis testis, find their ecpiivalent in the pelvic p)eritonitis of the female. Tubercular disease of the mesenteric glands and miliary infiltration of the lungs are found associated with tubercular ovaritis as well as with tubercular orchitis. Bernutz points out a further analogy still, for he says;— After puncture, pus, and witli it, as we have found, part of tlie ovary, escapes, per rectum. This evacuation is followed by a temporary improvement, similar to that which follows in tubercular orchitis, when a puncture or incision of the distended tunica vaginalis allows the escape of pus and testicular debris. Then follow alternations of improvement and exacerbation, during which the constitution becomes seriously altered, and signs of pulmonary tubercularization appear, just as obtains in tubercular orchitis.^ Symptoms and Diagnosis.—Ovarian abscess may be preceded by the symp- toms of acute ovaritis, or it may occur so insidiously as to excite no symp- toms until the pelvic peritoneum is inflamed. In the first case, pain will be complained of in the lower piart of the abdomen, groin, and inner side of the thigh, and this will be accompanied with considerable febrile disturbance, restlessness, and nausea. The pain varies, being sometimes very intense, but more fre(piently only a continuous, dull aching, with recurring, severe exacer- bations. If the pelvic peritoneum he involved in the inflammation, other symptoms will be added according to the precise part of the serous membrane which is inflamed ; thus, if it be the peritoneal covering of the bladder, micturition will be frecpient and painful ; if that of the colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum, tenesmus, with the accumulation of scybala, may result. Vaginal examination shows the uterus to be unaffected, but on pressing the finger against the top) of the vagina, on the affected side, extreme tenderness win he (letected. Probahly the inflamed ovary will be felt to be enlarged and lower in pjosition than the sound one; with the finger in either rectum or vagina it will seem to be about the size of a walnut, movable, and exquisitely sensitive. The formation of pms may be indicated by rigors; elevation of temp)erature, and increased frequency and feebleness of the [)ulse, with a red and glazed tongue, are piretty sure to occur. Sickness will he troublesome, and a sense of weight and throbl)ing p)ain will be experi- enced over the greater p>art of the lower half of the abdomen. Pus may however form without giving any indication of its existence, as in a case recorded in the Lancet for 1852.^ If the abscess is not p)receded by the symptoms of ovaritis, there will be nothing to suggest its onset, and its course is p)ursued unnoticed until symp)- toms due to secondary p)elvic pieritonitisand adhesions occur. Indeed, in the majority of instances the diagnosis of ovarian abscess is never made, and the abscess is discovered only on the post-mortem table; whilst during life the