313 METHODS OP EXAMINING THE MIDDLE EAR, attached to the catheter passes through the outer angle of the patient’s eye. If we rotate the beak of the catheter first into Rosenniiiller’s fossa, and then draw it out a short distance, we can often feel the end of the instru- ment pass over the rounded eminence which constitutes the inner lip of the mouth of the Eustachian tube. As the distance of the tubal orifice from the posterior pharyngeal wall varies in ditierent individuals, the method last described, of guiding our movements Ijy aid of the sense of touch, rather than by rough estimates of distance, is the one to which most aurists, I think, give the preference. In some individuals, the landmark which I have just described is so feebly developed, or the surrounding parts are so swollen, that the operator feels doubtful whether he has reached the mouth of the tube or not. In such cases the Giampetro-Lowenberg method will he found useful. According to this method, the catheter is to he rotated toward the Eustachian tube of the opposite side, and when its beak occupies a horizontal position, as indicated by the metal ring, the instrument is to be drawn out until the resistance of the posterior edge of the nasal septum is encountered. The catheter is then to be rotated in the opposite dii-ection, through an arc of at least one hundred and eighty degrees, into the m(uith of the Eustachian tube which it is desired to reach. In all three methods, Imt especially in the one last described, the surgeon will do well to grasp the body of the catheter with the thumb and forefinger of his left hand before he performs the act of rotation with his right han<l. In any event he will have to grasp it in this manner after the instrument finally reaches its pro[»er position, as the right hand will be recpiired for other purposes. The su})port thus afforded to the catheter is a very firm one, as the last three fingers of the left hand find a strong resting-place on the bridge of the patient’s nose, or on the lower part of his forehead. As long as the operator’s fingers press firmly against the patient’s skull, he need have very little fear of the disturbing influence of a sudden motion of the })atient’s head upon the position of the catheter. AVhen the surgeon believes that the beak of the instrument is lying in the moutli of the Eustachian tube, he should give the patient one end of the auscultation-tuhe to place in the meatus of the corresponding ear, and should fix the other end tightly in his own auditory canal, preferably the left one. AVith his right hand he should the?i grasp the rubber bag (the ordinary I’ol- itzer’s bag will answer well for this pur|)Ose) and apply the liard-rubber nozzle of the instrument to tlie mouth of the Eustachian catlieter. If the latter instrument is in the right position, and the Eustachian tube is not un- naturally contracted, he will hear the air streaming as it were into his own ear. If the cathetei’, however, occupies a wrong [)Osition, he will probalily still hear the air streaming out of the end of the instrument, but it will no longer seem to be escaping into his own ear; the sound will appear to he more distant ami less distinct. In withdrawing the cathetei’ from the nasal cavities, no special precautions are necessary. The instrument is first to be rotated back to its original position, with the beak pointing downward, and then it is to be drawn out gently from the nose. Great stress is laid, in some treatises on practical otology, on the danger of causing emphysema of the cellular tissue in various parts of the neck, Ibut particularly in the region surrounding the entrance to the air-passages, in the course of the operation of forcing air into the middle ear by means of the Eustachian catheter. I must confess that I have never seen an instance of this accident, nor have I heard of its occurrence in the practice of any of my colleagues here in Aew York. I can easily umlerstand, however, that the employment ot a catheter with a sharp-edged beak, or the use of too much