496 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAAVS, ETC. up viscid mucus, until at last in some straining effort the abscess bursts, when immediate relief with rapid convalescence follows. In the premonitory or early stage, a mustard emetic often acts as a charm and produces immediate resolution; but, failing thus, recourse may be had to warm inhalations, the application of hot poultices below the ear, and the administration of belladonna internally, in small and frequent doses, coupled with plenty of liquid food. Salicylate of sodium has also been held to act as a specific in these cases. An early puncture of an inflamed tonsil is much to be recommended if the surgeon will use a bistoury covered except for a quarter of an inch from the point, and will thrust it boldly through the soft palate Avhere it is made prominent by the tonsil. The hemorrhage should be en- couraged by gargling with hot milk and Avater, and much greater relief Avill thus be given than by the application of leeches externally. The same method should be adopted in opening an abscess in the tonsil, and thus all risk of doing damage to inq^ortant structures will be a\"oided. A more chronic form of tonsillitis is familiar to residents in hospitals under the name of “ hospital sore-throat,” and is met with among persons exposed to bad air, particularly if tainted Avith seAver-gas. It consists in a subacute inflammation of the tonsils, with injection and ulceration of the fauces, sometimes going on to abscess, but more frequently subsiding if the patient is put upon a stimulant and tonic plan of treatment, and removed from the depressing influences to Avhich he has been exposed. The occurrence of frequent sore-throats in a household should direct immediate attention to the condition of the drainage, and to the probable escape of sewer-gases into the house. Pharyngitis.—Acute inflammation of the pharynx may occur in conjunction Avith tonsillitis, or alone, and its chief symptom is the difficulty in SAvalloAA’- ing. The disease ends ordinarily in resolution, but may occasionally lead to suppuration in the cellular tissue behind the gullet, thus causing a post- pharyngeal abscess. The bulging forAvard of the posterior Avail of the pharynx by an elastic swelling which impedes deglutition and may interfere Avith res- piration, clearly marks the case,’ and a puncture in the median line Avill readily evacuate the pus. It should not be forgotten that post-pha.ryngeal abscess is often connected Avith caries of the cervical A’ertebrie, in Avhich case it has been proposed by Mr. Cheyne to open the abscess externally with antiseptic precautions. Erysipelas occasionally attacks the fauces and pharynx, and appears to lead to complete temporary paralysis of the muscles, so that not only is deglu- tition suspended, but it is impossible to excite reflex action in the muscles by irritating the throat mechanicallju The affection is a A’ery serious one, and likely to prove rapidly fatal from depression of the Autal poAvers, both b}' the poison and by the Avant of food, unless ample nourishment be administered by the rectum until the poAver of SAvalloAving is restored. A much more chronic form of paralysis of the throat is that folloAving diphtheria, but here it is the palate Avhich is principally affected, the A'oice being thick for Aveeks. IIyperthophy op the tonsils is common in children and young persons of a strumous diathesis, and in rachitic patients is apt to lead to the deformity known as “ pigeon-breast,” from interference Avith the full expansion of the lungs. The thick speech, open mouth, and stertorous breathing, Avhich in sleep develops into sonorous snoiung, are sufficiently marked in extreme cases; • C. Fleming, Cases Occurring in Cliilclren, Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. xvii.