362 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. diameter is half an inch, and its thickness one-twentieth; to it is soldered, at the nearly right angle described, a partly flexible, and preferably a straight shank of metal, Avhich terminates in a convenient handle, where it can be lengthened or shortened at will by means of a screw. The size of the mir- ror that should be used in a given case, depends entirely upon the amount of space existing between the patient’s relaxed velum and the posterior pharyn- geal wall. This will be found to vary greatly, but, as a rule, the small mirror described is the most practical. Tongue Spatula.—The tongue spatula modelled after the pattern of Tiirck is well adapted to fulfil its purpose.^ Anterior Rhinoscopy.—The position of the patient, of the surgeon, and of the source of illumination, do not vary front those necessary for laryngo- scopy ; that is, the patient is seated erect, in a straight backed chair, with his head thrown slightly backward; the surgeon, seated in front of him, so adapts the position of his head, upon which he has fastened the concave forehead reflector, as to place it on a level with that of the patient, and then looks directly forwards through the perforation in the mirror, with his right eye, towards the latter’s nose ; the rays of light, as they come from the lamp which is placed upon the right of the patient, at the level of his ear, are then caught upon the forehead reflector, focused, and thence reflected forwards into the nasal speculum, which is now introduced into the nostril of the patient, care being taken not to pass it too high up into the narrow space between the cartilaginous septum and the outer bony wall of the nostril, where it would cause pain. Its blades are next dilated or separated, and the focus of light is carefully thrown between them and into the nasal passages ; the })arts of the latter now come into view, and will be seen to vary in their normal configuration, and likewise according to the nature and degree Fig. 914. of their diseased condition. Ordinarily the anterior, and parts of the inferior, surfaces of the two lower turbinated bones, the side of the sejitum, and the ■ See also Baginsky (Rhinoscopic methods of examination and operation), Volkmann, Klin. Vortrage, No. 160, 1879 ; Harrison Allen, Aids to Diagnosis in Nasal Diseases, Pliila. Med. Times, 1880-1, vol. xi. p. 613; Voltolini, Rhinoskopie und I’haryngoskopie. Breslau, 1879 ; and Schnitzler, Laryngoskopie und Rhinoskopie. Wien, 1879.