INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 796 at the seat of fracture of the ribs. If associated with pneumo-thorax, as already mentioned, its presence may increase the embarrassment of respiration caused by the pressure exercised on the lung by the air distending the pleural cavity, but in the gravest fractures of the chest-wall, in fractures of many ribs and of the sternum combined, although emphysema may be present, it does not reach the extent which it attains in injuries of lesser importance, for in the extensive fractures the respiratory power is commonly so impaired that the injection of air into the areolar tissue is made with but feeble effort. The shock, too, attending these accidents adds an important factor to the depression of the power of respiration. For these reasons an excessive emphysema of the body is often endured with less risk to life than more moderate effusion. The development of general emphysema, particularly when the escape of air takes place at the seat of the contusion, presents the greatest difficulty in the way of an accurate diagnosis by physical examination, for rarely is the examination made before enough air has escaped to mask all other auscul- tatory signs by its crepitus under pressure, while the percussion note is so modified that even to recognize with certainty the tympany of a pneumo- thorax is most difficult. The prognosis in these injuries—contusions of the cliest complicated by fractured ribs—when seen by the surgeon witliin a few hours of their occurrence, depends on a correct estimate of the degree of shock which attends them, of the amount of impairment in respiratory power, and of the number of bones broken. Attention to these points is certainly more necessary than a detailed incpiiry into the question of whether the rib-frac- tures have been caused by direct or indirect violence—a question to which over-much importance is attached by many writers, who, in the study of fractures of the ribs, are led away too readily by the erroneous theory of I’etit, that in fracture from indirect violence, the displacement of the frag- ments being outwards, the thoracic contents are less liable to injury than in fracture from direct violence, with its result, inward displacement.* Where many ribs are broken on one or both sides, with or without fracture or dis- location of the sternum or cartilages of the ribs, death takes place almost immediately if there be rupture of the larger vessels. Escaping this rapid death, though small hemorrhages take place at many points, commonly the amount of blood lost is insufficient to cause death ; in such cases the patient dies in a few hours, it may be with moderate emphysema of the areolar tissue, lingering with a death-like pallor and feeble breathing, with a falling tem- perature and cold breath, too depressed to feel, or, at all events, to com- plain of, much pain. On the other hand, when patients who have suffered serious chest-injury are able to give loud expression of suffering, we com- monly find the associated synqjtoms less grave, the shock moderate, and but little evidence of blood-effusion, even though there be distinct evidence of wound of the lung. In such, the risks are those consequent on reaction, infiammation of the pleura and pericardium, and of the lung. Though un- doubtedly a rare termination, even gangrene of the lung may follow such an injury.^ Injuries of this class, when seated in the lower parts of the chest, are most liable to be complicated by abdominal lesions, particularly rupture of the liver and of the kidney. Of these the former is the more grave, and, unfortu- nately, that least capable of recognition, until revealed by post-mortem ex- amination. The complication of lacei’ated kidney, indicated by luematuria, ■ Bennett, Fractures of the Ribs, an Examination of the Theory of Petit. Dublin Journal of Medical Science, Nov. 1878. ^ Defontaine, Bulletin Medical du Nord, t. xix. p. 248.