TREPHINING. 99 washed out with the mercuric-bichloride solution, and the flaps laid in place and kept in position by straps or sutures. Means for free drainage must be provided, either by the arrangement of the flaps or by a small drainage tube. Over all, several layers of mercuric or carbolic gauze, or layers of lint soaked in the mercuric or carbolic solution should be placed and retained by the gentle pressure of a well-applied bandage. The dressings should Ije frecpiently changed, lest pent-up pus beneath the flaps should prove a cause of cerebral oppression. The after-treatment should be strictly antiseptic as far as the wound is concerned, and should be that of a bad cranial fracture as regards the head symptoms. Eccheverria recommends the administration of conium and ergot after trephining for epilepsy, with the constant application of the ice-cap to the head for a number of days, after which frequent cold allusions may be substituted. A head-cap, formed of a continuous coil of block-tin pipe, through which iced water is kept constantly flowing, is the most satis- factory way of applying dry cold.* It is unadvisal)le to apply the trephine over the course of sutures, if it can be avoided, simply because the dura mater usually adheres at these points with exceptional tenacity, rendering tearing of that membrane a probable acci- dent, and, also, because of the great ditference in the thickness of the bone; thus, along the sagittal suture, which is grooved for the longitudinal sinus, at one portion of the periphery of the trephine-cut the teeth would almost certainly touch the dura mater, while at other portions the bone would be only half sawn through. In cases where it seems imperative to apply tlie trephine over a suture, especially one beneath which lies a sinus, there is, fortu- nately, very frecpiently a s6})aration of the dura mater produced by tlie injury, which removes it out of harm’s way. Notwithstanding, when possi- ble, sutures should be avoided. In like manner, trephining over the anterior inferior parietal angle is undesirable, lest the middle meningeal artery should be wounded. If this happen, plugging the bony canal with a sliarpened match, or a pellet of wax, will usually arrest the bleeding. If not, a knitting- needle or iron wire at a dull red heat may be made to etfectually seal the vessel. The course of the lateral sinus, Avhicli, in a general way, may be said to correspond to a line drawn from the externa] occipital protuberance to the external auditory meatus, should also be avoided. Trejihining over the frontal sinus, it is said, must never be done except under compulsion, lest an aerial iistula result. This presupposes that the cavity is always })resent and in the same position. Mr. lliltoid has shown that the sinus does not begin to make its appearance liefore fifteen or six- teen years of age, and that in many cases it may not begin to lie developed until a still later period. Examining ditferent adult crania, he found these cavities sometimes altogether absent. Oftentimes but one small cell was found on one side of the median line, while in other cases there was a small cell on either side. In other specimens there were fair sized cavities, at times symmetrical, but usually differing much in outline and dimensions. Sometimes the sinus may extend upwards nearly the wdiole distance of the forehead, and backwards an inch or more along the orbital jflates of the frontal bone. An aerial fistula does not always result;^ still, when possible, fbe supposed site of the frontal sinuses should be avoided. When it is not possible, a lai’ge-crowned instrument must be used to perforate the outer wall of the sinus, and a smaller one for the inner. Finally, when there are imperative reasons for so doing, the surgeon may trephine at any point of the skull, bearing in mind the special dangers to be ' See, also, Petitgand’s apparatus, Vol. II. p. 173, Fig. 272. ^ Guy’s Hosp. Reports, 2d series, vol. viii. pp. 3ti2 et seq. ® See Larrey, op. cit.