529 DISEASES OF THE JAWS. hind it a solid mass of inspissated pus and cholesterine, wliich, as in a ease of my own, may, by its presence, induce partial absorption of the lioor of the antrum, with a protrusion of the palate and all t-he symptoms of maxillary tumor. In order then to avoid an error which has overttdcen very excellent surgeons, it is advisable, in all cases of tumor of the upper jaiv in which tlie nature of the swelling is not obvious, to perforate tlie antrum beneath the cheek, before incising the skin of the face and taking the necessary steps for removal of the jaw. The secondary effects j)roduced, by distension of tlie antrum are sometimes se- rious. Thus, protrusion of the eyeball from elevation of the floor of the orbit is not infrequent, and eases of permanent amaurosis have been recorded by Salter and Gaine, while occasionally death has been known to follow suppu- ration within the antrum. Periostitis, both acute and chronic, affects the jaws, but the former is so prone to run into suppui-ation with consequent necrosis, that it is only in the early stages that it can be recognized. The more chronic form is commonly connected Avitli syphilis, and leads to the formation of nodes about the }>alate, and to enlargement of portions of the lower jaw. In these latter eases, the ad- ministration of the ioclides in full doses gives most satisfactory results. ]\Iany cases of persistent facial neuralgia which are unrelieved by quinine, etc.,yiehl to the administration of iodide of potassium, and may be eonclude<l to depend upon chronic periostitis or osteitis, Avith probably }»ressure upon the dental nerves. Necrosis affects the loAver much more frecpiently tlian the up]>er jaiv, probably in consequence of its being less abundantly siq»plieil Avith blood. Eeginning as periostitis from tooth irritation, injury, or the action of some specific poison, the general symptoms are j)ain, Avith pyrexia, and the part attected Avill be found to be SAVolleii, injected, and hot, the teeth being raised from their sockets, and unaljle to bear the slightest pressure. If relieved Ijy timely depletion by leeches or, better, a free incision, and the assiduous use of hot gargles and poultices, the symptoms may suliside Avithout further mischief; but usually matter lias already formed beneath the periosteum before the patient is seen, and then, although iiromptly evacuated, necrosis is very apt to follow. Fortunately, necrosis sometimes affects the outer plate of the alveolus only, so that the teeth are supported by the inner plate and can be kept in situ; but Avhen the entire socket is involved, tlie teeth are rendered loose and useless, and are better aAvay, since they only ]'lug the openings through Avhich the discharge Avould And its Avay out. It is A^ery undesirable to attempt removal of sequestra until they are completely loosened, since by doing so damage may be inflicted on the surrounding parts, and the ])rocess of repair be interfered Avith; and this is especially the case Avit.li children in whom tlie second teeth are still undeveloped. It is impossible to lay doAvn any rules for the period of separation, Avhich must depend upon tlie extent and position of the sequestrum, and the strength of the patient; lint ordinarily, from six Aveeks to three months must elapse before hu’gc sequestra can lie safely extracted. By exantkenvdous necrosis (Salter), is meant the necrosis occurring in young children, for the most jiart after attacks of the s])ecitic fevers, especially scarlet fever and smallpox. Necrosis of portions of the alveolus of either jaw, and usually on lioth si<les symnietrically, or oA^en of the Avhole thickness of the lower jaAV, is fully recognized iioav as one of the seqnche of these dis- orders ; and donlitless many of tlie cases Avhich Avere attributed to the admin- istration of calomel, in former days, Avere really due solely to the action of voE. V.—34