MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. BY FREDERICK TREVES, F.R.C.S., ASSISTANT SURGEON TO, AND LECTURER ON ANATOMY AT, THE LONDON HOSPITAL. Diseases of the Scalp. Erysipelas.—The head is very frequently the seat of erysipelas. In 692 cases of erysipelas, collected hy Zuelzer,^ tlie disease was met with on the head in 246 instances. On the scalp it usnally assumes the simple cutaneous form, the morbid changes extending no deeper than the aponeurosis of the occipito- frontalis muscle ; on the face, liowever, the subcutaneous structures are almost invariably involved, and great swelling of tlie parts is produced. Erysipelas of the scalp may also be“ cellular” (cellulitis) or “ cellulo-cutaneous.” Scalp erysipelas usually extends to the lace, and face eiysijieias to the scalp. Ery- sipelas of the head may (1) lie cither idiopathic, oiq(2) liave for a starting- ])oint some wound, ulcer, or chronic skin-disease involving breach of surface. Tlie great liulk of the cases of so-called idiopathic erysipelas occur in this situation, and commence usually on the face, extending sulisequently to the scalp. Trousseaid and others very rightly question the spontaneous character of this form of erysipelas, and urge that in all but a few cases some slight lesion can be detected—a scratch, or a trifling sore upon the skin, a bi’each of surface on the nasal mucous membrane, or within the mouth, or the auditory meatus, or even in the lachrymal canal. And with regard to these latter soui’ces of erysipelas, it is to be noted that the reputed idiojiathic disease most commonly commences about the oriflce of some mucous cavity. Scalp wounds are more commonly followed by erysipelas than are wounds elsewnere. As in other parts, it is most fi’equent after recent wounds, and more common after small wounds than large. This latter fact is explained by the probable neglect of treatment in smaller wounds. St/iiiptoriis.—These are the same as those of erysipelas elsewhere, with some few niodiflcations.^ The constitutional disturbance is often considerable, and nausea and vomiting, as concomitant symptoms, appear to be unduly frequent in erysijielas in this situation (Zuelzer^). Certain cerebral symptoms also com- monly appear. Headache, often of severe character, vertigo, drowsiness, or, on the other hand, undue excitement, may be among the earliest constitu- tional evidences of the disease. As the malady advances, more serious symp- toms may supervene, the more usual being sleeplessness, mental confusion, extreme restlessness, or delirium, often of a furious cliaracter. These symp- toms are usually dei>endent upon some hy[>cnemia of the pia inater, and may a])pear in any form of head erysi^ielas, independent of cause -or extent. 1 Zietnssen’s Cyclopaedia of the Practice of Medicine, vol. ii. ji. 457. 1875. ® Lectures on Clinical Medicine, 3d ed., vol. ii. p. 253. 1869. 3 See Vol. I. pp. 177, 184. “ Loc. cit., p. 4C0. (Ill)