248 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 1 See Fig. 861, page 199, supra. Then exchanging for the cystotome, he cuts the capsule and instantly hands me the spoon, which I use in bringing out the lens. In this case I can, and sometimes do, use the iris-forceps and the cystotome myself, the assistant simply snipping the iris. But the jiosition is a little constrained, and I prefer the first method. To fix the eye, I use the large, broad-toothed forceps,' without spring to hold them closed, opening them three or four mm., and pressing them finnly on the hall, at the sclero-corneal junction, and then closing them so as to get a firm and controlling fixation. The point of fixing is not vertically below the cornea, but downwards and inwards, the extrac- tion being usually upwards. I do this to better avoid the rolling of the eye on its visual axis, during puncture and counter-puncture. In old people with friable tissues, the conjunctiva sometimes tears, but it is not apt to do so if solidly and dee}>ly held. I generally use the original stop-speculum of Graefe, and in case the eye is prominent, with danger of pressure, I direct a second assistant to hold the instrument near its temporal end and lift it slightly forwards. The smaller speculum, turned towards the nose side, is less in the way of the operator. * It is difficult, in describing this operation, to designate accuratel}’ the points of puncture and counter-puncture. Assuming, as an average, that the hori- zontal diameter of the clear cornea is twelve mm., I would say, let them both be exactly at the sclero-corneal junction, and one mm. above this diameter. In that way an incision of ten or ten and one-half mm. may be obtained, even if the knife cuts out a little in the transparent cornea. In passing the knife, I go straight through, without changing the direction of the point, simply watching it closely so as to make the counter-puncture at the right place. One is apt to make it further back than the point of entrance. This is a less dangerous mistake than the opposite, which gives too small an incision for the easy exit of the lens. The extent of the incision may be somewhat regulated by the approximately determined hardness of the lens and size of the nucleus. But there are always much greater dangers and difficulties connected with a too small, than with an unnecessarily long incision. These preliminaries settled, the steps of the operation may be briefly described. The knife should be introduced and kept with its surface parallel with the iris, being pushed far forwards, after the counter-puncture is made, so as nearly to complete the section, which is tlioi finished as the blade is slowly withdrawn. Holding the cornea straight forwards or a little divergent, aids very much in this act. If the point of the knife catches slightly in the iris as it passes through the chamber, or if the iris falls over the edge, it is better to go right on and finish, than to hesitate and retract. Just before finishing the flap, it is best to turn the edge of the blade slightly forwards. In i-are cases, where the eye is very deep- seated, the knife may be passed in with the edge inclined somewhat forward from the start, and made to cut out in the same iilane, so as to prevent hag- gling of the wound. In that case we cut out farther forwards in the cornea. The section completed, we proceed at once to the iridectomju If the iris prolapses, as it nearly always will, it needs only be seized, held firmly, drawn slowly out, and snipped off at one angle of the wound as close as possible. It is then drawn on a little more, carried towards the other angle and again snipped. On completing the excision, the angles of the wound are quickly inspected, and if any trace of iris hangs in either, it must be carefully seized witli the fine forceps, drawn out again, and snipped close to the surface. If neither branch of the iris is drawn into the cornea, the straight, cut edges can be (piickly recognized in the anterior chamber. The next step, discission of the capsule, should be done quickly, so as to