SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. 607 ration in the cyst which constituted the chief objection in former times to this procedure. The drainage must, howevei’, be carefully attended to, as other- wise annoyance or danger will arise. Laying the sac open and applying caustic to the lining, so as to cause its destruction, is a practice now seldom followed. Excision has its chief use in dermoid cysts, and in multilocular cysts which threaten asphyxia, when no less serious or (lifficult plan of treating them is available. Experience does not, however, encourage these operations, and they have proved, in the case of large cysts, very difficult and sometimes very disastrous. The deeji relations of these growths are frerpiently such that extirpation is impossible. The ligature is not adapted for the removal of cysts of the neck, though in cases of attempted excision, the deeper portions may sometimes be thus dealt with. Surgical Affections of the Thyroid Gland. This very vascular gland, lying on either side of the upper part of the trachea, in near proximity to the great bloodvessels, is a ductless, encapsuled body, largely supplied with lymphatics, and consisting of a cellular structure of iirm texture, pervaded by a glairy, gummy, yellowish fluid, which coagulates when heated. The two lateral portions of the thyroid, which lie on either side of tlie windpipe, are connected by a bridge or isthmus which covers the three upper rings of the trachea, where also an intermediate lobe or pyramid may exist.* TTie thyroid varies considerably in size in difterent persons, and may atrophy and almost disappear in the old. It is liable to temporary enlarge- ment during menstruation and pregnancy, afterwards resuming its )iormal size, or nearly so, and no cbange of structure being caused by such increase. Permanent enlargement occasions that condition which is called “ Inonchocelc,” or “ goitre,” or, in England, “ Derbyshire neck.” Tliere is great variety in the degree of this abiding enlargement. It may cause only a certain broaden- ing of the neck, which attracts little observation, or it may produce a great pendulous mass covering the whole front of the neck, and in extreme cases extending down in front of the abdomen.^ Hypertrophy of the thyroid, or goitre, may be simple and without much structural change. It ap[)ears to be more common on the right side than on the left, and may be conlined to one side and the isthmus, or at least these parts may be developed out of all proportion to the rest of the gland. Goitres liave been variously classified according to their structure. The terms solid and licpiid goitres, cystic and parencliymatous, etc., have been proposotl as dis- tinguishing tlie leading forms. The cysts of Avhich these growths may Ije chiefly composed, vary widely in size, sha[>e, contents, etc. The contents may be a clear and albuminous fluid, or a gummy, gluey, or jelly like material, or may consist of blood, or may be made up even of calcareous matter. The interior of the cyst may also present much diversity as to shape and construc- tion. The cavity maybe divided by septa more or less complete. The walls, sometimes thin and pliant, are at other times hard and rigid, with calcareous and osseous deposits. These walls are firmly attached to the gland, but only ' See RoeoLat, RecliRrches sur la Structure flu Corps TliyrolVle. Paris, 1873; aud Burns, op. cit. ^ See Berger, Archives Geutrales de Medeciue, 1874 ; also Virchow, Krankhat'teu Geschwiilste.