326 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. dies iu contact with the tympanic mucous membrane, at least hy any of the methods which I have thus far described. Injections by means of the Eustachian catheter, are, under these circum- stances, preferred by many authorities. This plan of treatment, howevei’, is open to the objection that it gives the patient unnecessary discomfort, and often fails to introduce the remedial solution into the middle ear. A far more direct and perfect method is by means of slender glass or metal tubes, which can easily be passed through the smallest perforation. As it is necessary to intro- duce only a few tlrops of the remedial solution, it will he found convenient to attach to the tube an elastic cap, hy means of which we may both draw up into it the remedy, and at the proper moment discharge it through the perforation into the drum-cavity. The accompanying cut is a faithful rei:)re- sentation of such a glass tube with its elastic rul^ber attachment. Such a “ middle-ear pipette” is vciy likely to inject only air into the middle ear unless we take care to elevate the reservoir end a little above the level of the Fig. 895. Middle-ear pipette ; full size. perforation. I need scarcely remind the reader that this apparently simple operation is not to he undertaken hy eveiybody. Like very nearly all the manipulations necessary in either the examination or the treatment of the ear, this procedure requires skill in keeping the druni-memhrane steadily illuminated, delicacy in the manipulation of the instrument, and a perfect knowledge of the whereabouts of the tip of the pipette in tlie middle ear. Two or three questions still remain to he answered. In the first place, we must consider how frequently these remedial applications to the mucous membrane of the middle ear should he made. It is possible that the patient will make more rapid progress toward recovery if we apply our remedies to the affected part every day, than if we make the applications only three times a week. I have not tested this poifit thoroughly, and cannot therefore answer the question in a positive manner. I get excellent results from appli- cations made only on alternate days, and I have sometimes found that I could, with apparent advantage, make tlie intervals even longer. I have therefore adopted the rule not to see patients who are affected with a purulent inflam- mation of the middle ear, oftener than three times a week. As a matter of course, we must see them oftener during the acute stage of the attack; but the rule which I have given apjflies only to the later stages. If the weaker solu- tions do not seem to diminish the discharge, I employ the stronger ones, and when these seem to increase the inflammation and the amount of the dis- charge, I return to the weaker solutions, or I abstain from all active inter- ference for a few days, or I enq:>loy some other remedy. In this disease, how- ever, I rarely find it necessary to resort to any other remedy, and the only articles that I use under such circumstances,- ai’e finely powdered iodoform, burnt alum, and l)oracic acid. As the condition of the ear improves under the use of nitrate of silver, there comes a time when nothing remains hut a thin, scanty discharge, and there is no longer any visible evidence of active