702 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. risk of death by sntfocation. Death has occurred iu this way botli bj' the abscess itself and by collateral oedema; but, iu the cases recoi’ded, the nature of the affection had not been made out during life. Spontaneous discharge often ensues; the contents l>eing ejected by cough, with immediate relief to the subjective symptoms. The ultimate prognosis depends upon the nature of the disease or injury which has given rise to the abscess. In some instances, a second abscess Avill be developed within a Aveek or tAvo after the discharge of the first; and this may be followed by one or tAvo more at intervals of several weeks or of several months. Stenosis of the larynx is an occasional sccpiel of abscess. In peri-laryngeal abscess the prognosis is dependent upon the nature of the disease Avhich has occasioned it. Treatment.—Under favorable circumstances, an intra-laryngeal abscess can be punctured or incised Avith a properly curved knife, guided by larjmgoscopy. Should this operation be impracticable, a precautionary tracheotomy Avill be indicated under conditions of dyspnoea threatening death by suffocation. Peri-laryngeal abscess is treated by incision at the most accessible point, as far as practicable in the middle line. Perichondritis and Chondritis. As far as is knoAvn, chondritis is ahvays preceded by perichondritis. Perichondritis is commonly deuteropathic or traumatic in origin. Primary perichondritis, usually attributed to great exposure to cold and moisture, and occasionally to OA^er use of the voice, is A^ery rare. Even cases supposed to have been of this nature have eventually proved to be deuteropathic.* It occurs much the most frequently in tuberculosis; and to a less extent in syphilis, typhus and enteric fevers, variola, diphtheria, scarlatina, lupus, pytemia, carcinoma, and traumatism. Occasionally it is a direct sequel of protracted clironic laryngitis. Except in cases occurring in enteric fcA-er, Avhen adolescents and young adults are most liable, it is more frequent in adults than in children, and most frequent betAveen the ages of tAventj'-fiA’e and forty. In enteric fever the process rarely begins before the second Aveek; but it may not be noticed until the period of convalescence. Some authors attribute perichondritis to ulceration progressing from the mucous membrane. Others attribute this ulceration to precedent perichondritis. The conclu- sion is that inflammatory processes rnaj" originate in the perichondrium, or be a result of transmission by contiguity. The cricoid and arytenoid carti- lages ai’e the most frequent sites of the process—the former in its posterior segment especially—a fact unsatisfactorily accounted for by its dependent position in recumbency, and its pressure against the vertebra?, as claimed by some observers. The thyroid cartilage is attacked far less frequently, and the epiglottis only exceptionally. Sup[)urative inflammation soon loosens the perichondrium from the cartilage, which then undergoes necrosis from innu- ti-ition, without actual inflammation. The suppTirative process deAmlops an aliscess Avhich breaks through the superjacent soft tissues, sometimes exter- nally, oftener internally, and then the necrosed cartilages are often discharged —in detritus, in fragments, or in bulk, as may be. Intercurrent inflltration of the intra-laryngeal soft tissues may produce acute stricture; and should the process eventuate in permanent hypeiq)lasia, Avhether of soft tissues or of cartilage, chronic stricture or stenosis may result. In tuberculosis and even in typhosis,^ the arytenoid cartilages are frequently discharged entire. ' Hall, Brit. Med. Journal, May 6, 1882, p. G60 ; and April 26, 1884, p. 814. 2 Clivostek, CentralLlatt fiir die med. Wissenscliaften, No. 11, 30 Dec. 1883.