FUNGUS OF THE DURA MATER. 159 its contained bloodvessels, and not to impulses transmitted from the brain. The scalp becomes stretched over the prominent, growing mass; becomes hair- less, thinned, and purplish ; and in time perhaps gives way over a soft, fluc- tuating spot. So extensively may the tumor break down, that the Anger introduced through the gap in the scalp, may feel the aperture in the skull. From this giving way of the scalp, severe hemorrhage may ensue. The tumor may attain a large size before the skin yields. Louis^ records a case in which the growth was thirteen inches in circumference and seven inches in height, and on removal weighed four pounds and six ounces. Tumors of almost ecpial size have been noted by others. Sometimes the growth is attended by much pain. Louis imagines this to be due to the pressure of the mass against the sharp edges of the bole in the bone, and cites a case in which the patient found relief from severe pain and grave brain symptoms by lying in the jiosition that caused the tumor to be the least prominent. Luring the progress of the case there may be cerebral symptoms—such as headache, impairment of sight and hearing, vertigo, stupor, spasms, etc.—l)ut more commonly these symptoms are aljsent. Louis reports a case in Avhich the tumor was twelve inches in circumference, but in which the patient presented no symptoms of this kind. In the matter of diagnosis^ the general features of the case will be such as usually point out a sarcomatous growth. As long as the tumor is small, is reducible, and presents pulsations, little difflculty can occur in the diagnosis. It may in this stage be mistaken for encepbalocele, from which, however, it should be early distinguished by the fact that the hernial tumor is congenital, is restricted as to its site, is softer to the touch, and does not present the com- paratively rapid and deliberate growth of the so-called fungus. Yascular growths from the dura mater are preceded by some injury or disease of the bone (Ileineke), and present, in addition to a strong pulsation in all their parts, a distinct bruit. AFhen the tumor lias attained some size and become tixed, and has lost all pulsation, the diagnosis may be more ditflcult. It can, however, scarcely be confounded with any growth other than a sar- coma of the cranial hones, and the points of ditference between these two forms of sarcoma are, I tbink, Avell marked. The sarcomata from the bone are harder than those from the duia mater, and are, indeed, often covered with a ca]) of bone; they show less constriction at their liase, and }U'esent in that situation very commonly a distinct osseous rim; moreover, they present in their interior bony trabeculie that can lie detected with a flue needle. An incision made, as Ileineke suggests, at the liase of the fungus, Avould shoAv that the edge of the bony gap had no connection with the substance of the growtli, as it has in the case of sarcoma arising from the cranium. AYlien the fungus appears in unwonted situations, errors in diagnosis are very prone to occur ; and as an exanpde of such I may cite a case rejiorted liy Lr. IMcIvenzie,^ of Glasgow, in which the fungus pierced tlie gi-eat wing of the sphenoid bone, and, appearing externally, was mistaken for an enlarged gland. The prognosis in these cases is bad, tlie malady, left to itself, being invari- ably fatal. Leath is due usually to increasing exbaustion and marasmus, or to implication of the softer meninges and brain. The duration of the disease is very variable; it may last for years,^ and on the Avhole does certainly ex- hibit a less rapid growth than do the majority of sarcomata. Some cases are, however, recorded, in which there lias been a very rapidly fatal termination. As regards treatmerd little is to be said. The external tumor should bo ' Loo. cit., p. 112. 2 London Medical Gazette. 1838. ® Louis gives a case that existed for seven years, ami another in wliicli tlie tumor remained quiescent for twelve years, and then took on rapid growth. (Loc. cit., p. 112.)