PENETRATINa WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 927 recovery lias been established, are very few indeed. If the patient has survived the first hemorrhage, the fever and peritoneal indamniation, with incessant hiccough and vomit- ino-, and sympathy of the diaphragm and stomach, have generally cut him off; and if he lias for a time escaped, excruciating pains, profuse suppuration from fistulous sores, hectic, and emaciation, have terminated his existence. Where the cure has been effected, there is reason to think that the ureter has been but slightly bruised, and the body of the kidney itself left untouched. At the present day, however, we know from the success that has attended recent surgical operations upon the kidney, that this estimate of the daug’er of renal wounds is altogether too unfavorable. Haller, Bourienne, Borth- wiek,^ Fallopius, Valleriola, Scheuckius, La Motto, and other old writers, have given instances of recovery from incised and punctured wounds. Sir A. Cooper mentions the case of a boy, whom he saw, who was struck in the back with a penknife ; almost immediately he wished to make water, and passed a large quantity of blood. Hsematuria continued for several days, but subsided by his remaining quiet in bed. Mr. Ackerly,^ of Liverpool, relates the case of a man, aged thirty, who was wounded in two places by the open blades of a pair of tailor’s shears, the one entering the abdomen about two inches above the anterior superior siiinous process of the ilium on the left side—from which wound about four inches of omentum j)rotruded—the other entering near the spine, on the same side, just beneath the last rib. There were coi)ious dis- charges of urine from the latter wound for two days. The omentum was cut away, and the bleeding vessels secured l>y ligatures. Recovery ensued in fourteen days. iVIr. -T. .Johnstoif records a case of recovery, after wound of the kidney, in a man aged thirty-two. The wound was inflicted with a large table-knife, with a blade of 8^ inches, the whole of which penetrated the tissues. The peritoneal cavity was opened. Painful, spasmodic retraction of the testicle was the prominent symptom, and led tlie man to suppose that he had been stabbed in the groin. There was much hemorrhage from the wound, and within an hour after its infliction a }>int of blood was passed by the urethra. Symptoms of peritonitis followed, and a peri-renal abscess had to be opened; quantities of urine escaped through the abscess-opening. The patient made a good recovery in about six v'ceks, and it is to be inferred, though it is not so stated, that a permanent urinary tistula was escaped. In the Medical and Surgical History of the AVhtr of the Reliellion,^ it is stated that out of a total of 78 cases of gunshot wound of the kidnc}' recorded during the war, 26 ended in reeoveiy; in 6 of the successful cases, the liver was also wounded. A case is given of (|uito niiracnlous recovery after considerable hemorrhage, six days of neglect of treatment, repeated journeys of many miles, a convalescence com})licated Ijy typhoid fever, and ii renal abscess which discharged externally, followed by an urinary fistula which sul)sequently closed. This case teaches the important lesson, that a surgeon should never abandon as hopeless any case of injury, however ini- Y»romising it may at first siglit appear. Twenty-one additional instances of recovery from gunshot wounds, and 14 of recovery after incised or punc- tured Avounds of the kidney, are collected from various sources, and referred tr» by the editor. Dr. Otis. Ao in.stancc of ])unctnred or incised wound of tlie kidney was, however, known to have occurred in tlie 'W'ar of the Re- bellion. The great sources of danger from these wounds are (1) hemeu’- rhage, if the great vessels of the organ are injured; (2) })critonitis, if the front surface of the organ, or any of the adjacent viscera, are penetrated. If 1 llennen Cop. cit., p. 42.“)) refers to tlie cases of tliese three observers. 2 Observations on Wounds of the Abdomen, bond. Med. Oaz., vol. xx. p. 549. 1837. ® Brit. Med. .Jour., April 4, 18.'i7, x>. 275. * Op. cit., Part Second, Surgical Vidnnie.