Fig. 1155. HER^•IA. 1174 adaptation, and the better the fit of this kind of truss, the more speedily are its mischievous effects made evident. The truss-pad should have its surface as nearh' flat as its adaptation to the body will permit, should be shaped according to the form and outline of tlie rupture, and should be as large as can be convenient!}’ worn. It should press upon the walls and sides of the hernial canal cpiite as much as upon its centre, and should be so inclined as to face a little in the direction of the hernial canal. In a corpulent patient, it should be so inclined as to lie flat upon the sloping integuments. The spring should be of sufficient strength to resist protrusion in ordinary expiratory efforts, sucli as coughing. For the piirpose of measuring the force required, before the truss is fitted, an instrument made for me some years ago by IMatthews, is veiy useful. (See Pressure-giuTge, for ascertaining the amount of hernial impulse, and consequent strength i-equired for truss-spring. Fig. 1155.) By placing the piston-pad (a) of this instrument, in truss fashion, upon the rupture, and the plate (5) upon the sacrum, then closing the lever arms by the screw (c) until some supporting resistance is felt by the patient, a cough-impulse will be imparted to the spiral spring placed within the pro- jecting cylinder, and can he read off on the indicator (d), which shows in pounds the amount of pressure necessary to restrain the hernial protrusion. Violent and extraordinary efforts in coughing or straining cannot be effectu- ally resisted liy any amount of truss-pi’essure which can be continuously borne by the patient. The truss-spring, under such circumstances, should he lieljied by pressure Avith the hand upon the pad, during the continuance of the cough or straining; ISTo contrivance which has hitherto been employed to substitute the steel side or hip spring is effective in giving real support to the rupture in cases of inguinal or crural hernia. Stra})sand belts arc yielding, and inca- ])able of such a degree of lateral resistance, when passed in a circle round the body, as to be effective at the point required.