971 FECAL FISTULiE. median external urethrotomy in the male, will assist in relieving the cystitis, if it does not effect a cure of the fistula. With a view of closing the umbilical orifice of the fistula, different methods have been tried, and each may succeed, though all may fail. If the opening is a vent for pus, or for urine which cannot, or can only with difficulty, pass through the urethra, no attempt at closure ought to be made. When the opening is upon a papillary outgrowth, it is sometimes sufficient to apply a ligature around the base of the papilla, which in a few days will then dry up and fiill off, and the fistula will be permanentlj^ closed. In other cases nitric acid, or the actual or Pacpielin’s cautery, may be applied to freshen the edges of the orifice, Avitli the view of‘starting healthy granulations. In other cases, again, the plan of dissecting off the skin around the opening and bringing the raw surfaces together with hare-lip pins, as was so successfully done by Mr. Paget in his two cases, should certainly be tried. In Mr. Paget’s first case, the operation was performed when the patient was fifty-five years of age. Fecal FiSTULiE. Fecal fistula differs from so-called “ artificial anus” in having much smaller external and internal orifices, and conserpientlj^ in not allowing of the dis- charge of more than a small portion of the intestinal contents tlirougli them, instead of the whole, or nearly the whole, as is the case in the other affection, ^loreover, a fecal fistula, though sometimes very short and direct, has gener- ally, as its name implies, a narrow track or channel between its intestinal and outer orifices, and sometimes this track is long and sinuous; whereas, ill artificial anus tlie internal orifice, which involves a great part, if not the whole of the lumen of the bowel, is adherent to the parietal peritoneum, so as to be nearly, or perhaps exactly, opposite tlie opening in the skin. Again, whereas an “ artificial anus” always opens upon the cutaneous surface, some fecal fistulie open internally into other viscera, for example, the vagina, urinary bladder, gall-bladder, stomach, or some other part of the liowel. Fecal fistulie, too, are sometimes “ blindthat is, the fecal matter •which escapes from the intestinal orifice burrows in the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue, or passes into an abscess-cavity, instead of being discharged tlirough a second opening; these cases, however, are considered under tlie headings of fecal extravasation and fecal abscess, and need not be further referred to liere. There is a form of fistula, intermediate between the complete and the blind, in which the intestine communicates with an abscess, and the abscess with the surface ; as in Dr. Couplaiid’s case, for instance, mentioned under the heading of retro-peritoneal extravasation (]». 9I'J), in which both the stomach and descending colon communicated with an abscess in the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions, from which }>us and fecal matter escaped through an opening in the loin. Fecal fistulie may communicate with any part of either small or large bowel; sometimes there is more than one opening in the bowel, as there frerpiently is more than onemii the surface. I have seen tliree or four per- forated ulcers in the ciecum, opening into tlie same fistulous track ; and I have had for the last eighteen montlis under my care, a child with a fecal fistula following the bursting of an abscess and communicating with the transverse colon, ill whom there were, when first seen by me, two external openings in the linea alba, and in whom a third formed, shortly afterwards, on one side of the other two; all the fistulous tracks communicated in the sulistance of the abdominal Avail lieneath the reddened and undermined skin. A'eliieau men-