DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 273 almost as much as before, and the final effect is not seen until a later period. If necessary, another careful operation may be repeated a few montlis after. Other methods are practised and may sometimes do better, such as the use of loops of subcutaneous ligature, recently recommended by Pagenstecher. If loops of sutures, passed under the skin near the free edge, brought out above, and tied, will accomplish the same elevation, there will be less danger of insuf- ficiency, unless the threads are drawn too tight and left too long. In case un- sightly folds remain behind, the surplus may afterwards be removed. I have lately had under care a case of congenital drooping of both lids, to such a degree that the patient, a young man, ivalked with his head painfully drawn back, and chest projecting. Polds were removed and the sutures passed deeply near the upper edges of the tarsi. The result was excellent. Entropium and Trichiasis.—A frequent sequel of granular lids, is incur- vation or troughing of the tarsal cartilage. This leads to inward displacement of the eyelashas, and trichiasis. In the cicatrizing process of trachoma, the tarsal conjunctiva contracts, atrophies, loses its polish and secreting capacity, and distorts the tarsus Iiorizontally by drawing its two edges towarcls each other. Rude friction, by the stiffened lid and eyelashes, on tlie cornea, gives rise to unmanageable keratitis and pannus. Tenderness to light, dimness of vision, frequent attacks of painful ulceration of the cornea, weeping, and end- less trouble, are the results. The shrinking process of atrophy leads also to oblite- ration of the reflected folds, and to much limitation in tlie movements of the eyes. Moreover, the lids are slowly united at the outer commissure, and trou- blesome phimosis results, greatly aggravating the trichiasis. 8uch lesions are permanent, and can only be benefited by surgical treatment. Of the many de- vices practised for the relief of trichiasis and its consequences, the most unsatis- factory is the mere excision of a horizontal fold of skin. It leads to insuffi- cient closure of the lids, Avithout materially correcting the malposition of the lashes and deformity of the tarsus. Iletter results ai’e obtained by splitting the lid betAveeiqthe tarsus and the bulbs of the eyelashes, excising a fold of integument, and then stitching so as to slide the lashes Avith their bulljs up on the anterior surface of the tarsus. Various modifications of this procedure may be practised, liut they all leave the main difficulty untouched, in trichi- asis from incurvation. The malformation of the tarsus^ if it exists, is the first and most important thing to be corrected. This is done in different Avays. An incision through the skin, and from three to four millimetres from the free margin of the lid, extending the Avhole length of the tarsus, is first made. To avoid bleeding and greatly facilitate the o[»eration, the ring for- ceps should be used. The skin being incised to the full length required, and the fibres of the orbicular muscle separated, the Avhite, firm tamus is properly exposed. Then, seizing it Avith stout, toothed forceps, and lifting it up, a Graefe’s knife is used to take out a Avedge-shaped }>iece, cutting from without iuAvards, from the Avhole length of the thickened tarsus. Great care is taken to avoid cutting through and sacrificing any of the conjunctiAm. This done, the edges of the skin are carefully united by four or five fine sutures. Instead of trying to remove the Avhole piece at once, it is better to seize the tarsus at different points, and remove a portion each time, till the end is accomplislied. The knife may be made to cut doAvn on one side and out on the other, gradually rotating it as it approaches the conjunctiva. Thus a succession of central, horizontal excisions are made. Ther e is more danger of not remoAung enough, than of removing too much of the stift' tarsus. If one or more small holes are made in the conjunctiva, they do no serious harm, but it is best to save that membrane entire if possible. A very narrow strip of skin is to be removed, either before the tarsus is excised, VOL. V.—18