217 DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. hastened by mild treatment, the conjunctiva is restored to its physiological condition, even in the most alarming, purulent form of the malady. As far, then, as the integrity of the membrane itself is concerned, the pi-ognosis is always favorable. It is only in chronic cases, complicated by granular lids, that serious lesions of the conjunctiva itself are produced. The dangers of conjunctivitis are, immediately, to the cornea and iris, and, remotely, that of the formation of granulations and of their endless duration and conse- quences. The things to be most feared in every case of severe or protracted conjunctivitis, are implication of the cornea and more or less serious damage to its transparency. Yarieties of Covjunctivitis.—The marked characteristics of some forms of conjunctivitis have led to their separation and special designation, under the names of simple^ catarrhal^ purulent^ and phlyctemdar covjunctivitis. The first is mild, of short duration, attended by little secretion, and causing hut slight inconvenience. The second is more serious, lasting longer, giving rise to more annoyance, and being attended by greater secretion of mucus. The third is the most acute, painful, and dangerous to the integrity of the eye, its diag- nostic symptom, indicated by the name, being a profuse discharge of pus. A form of purulent conjunctivitis rarely seen in this country, but very destruc- tive to sight, is called dipldheritic. In it there is at first no purulent dis- charge, hut a plastic infiltration of all the tissues, strangulation of the blood- vessels, and usually destruction of one or both cornete. conjunctivitis, where the deposit is superficial, and can be peeled off, is much less serious. The phlyctenular variety is limited to definite parts of the conjunctiva, and, as the name implies, is known liy the formation of little elevations or phlycte- nula}, the favorite seat of which is the ocular conjunctiva, near the cornea. They vary in number from one or two to many more, in bad cases surround- ing tlie entire cornea. Each is a focus for well-defined local injection, tlie rest of the membi’ane often being quite free from redness. In the mild cases there is little secretion and no intolerance of light. AVhen the isolated phlyc- tenula} are more numerous, the ])atches of infiammation become confluent, the secretion of mucus is more free, and the symptoms are those of acute, catarrhal conjunctivitis. The diagnostic lesion is the well-marketl i»hlyc- tenula. This peculiar infiammation occurs nearly always in children witli the scrofulous diathesis. The same little patients often suffer at intervals with lilepharitis ciliaris, scabby eruptions in and around tlie nose, on the skin of the lids, behind the ears, and on tlie scalp, with enlarged lymphatic glands, hypertrophied tonsils, and other strumous manifestations. The dis- ease seldom occurs in adults, except in such as have had it, at times, from cliildhood. AV^hen the phlyctenuke are seated on tlie cornea, they give rise to more serious and proti’acted sutfering, and often leave the eye damaged in sight from corneal opacities. Tlie disease is then called phlyctenular kera- titis, but it (litters in nothing, save in the seat of the lesion, from phlj^cte- nular conjunctivitis. The chief disease of the eyes in infancy is purulent conjunctivitis; that of childhood, plilyctenular conjunctivitis. Tlie healthiest infant may have the one, lint only the scrofulous child the other. Etioloyy of Coi junctioitis.—It would seem that all the varieties just described may recognize the same causes, the very different symptoms depending on the })ecuiiar constitution of the ]»atient, his immediate surroundings, or a difference in the directness and intensity of the cause. For instance, a catarrhal conjunctivitis, due to atmospheric causes, may be aggravated by bad ventilation, filthy habits, and constant reckless exposure, into the puru- lent form, with its destnictive tendencies. On the other hand, the simple, the catarrhal, and the purulent varieties, may often be traced to the same conta- gion. Atmospheric vicissitudes acting on a strumous child, will probably