INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 91G of tlie intestine wounded. The quantity discharged sometimes amounts to many ounces, or even })ints, and its color depends upon the length of time it has been retained in the Ijowel. It may begin to pass oft' at once, or not until seven or more hours after the accident; and it may continue to pass for some days. It must be borne in mind, howe\'er, that the discharge of blood from the intestine attends other injuries than actual wound of the bowel, liarely, after gunshot wounds, the bullet has been }>assed off by the stools. ]\I. Chenu has recorded one such instance. In almost eveiy ease there is nausea, with or without vomiting, beginning within a few minutes of the injury; these symptoms persist sometimes for days, with great obstinacy, even until death comes to the relief of the sufterer. The pain is generally of a griping character, but it may be of a dull, aching kind; it is almost always aggra- vated by coughing, or by a deep ins})iration, or oven by the pressure of the bedclothes. If there be extravasation of the contents of the bowel into the peritoneum, death will certainly occur, unless the amount extravasated he very small, and escape so slowlj^ as to allow of its being inclosed by plastic lymph. Some- times death takes place in cases of extravasation within a few hours from the first shock of the accident. INIore commonly it is caused by acute peri- tonitis, the symptoms of which do not usually extend over forty-eight hours; they need not be here recapitulated. If the extravasated matter has become encysted, an abscess generally forms and is evacuated, or the patient, after weeks or months of suffering, is worn out by chronic peritonitis or exhaust- ing discharges. "if there be extravasation through the external wound, the adhesive process may, in a few hours, seal the edges of the intestinal to those of the parietal wound, and the peritoneal cavity may thus become closed. Much temporary relief is obtained by this external escape of the intestinal contents: abdomi- nal tension is taken off; inflammation is lessened, and after a few da}’s, under favorable circumstances, subsides altogether; the wound granulates; and if the intestine can resume its natural function, and the part injured be not too near the stomach, life is preserved, and that, too, without the complication of a. false anus or fecal fistula. External effusion is, however, prevented by the obliquity of tlie wound in the difterent layers of the abdominal parietes, by the intestinal wound not being o])pt)site to the parietal wound, or by the partial closure from muscular contraction of the parietal wound. The passage of the contents of the large l)owel through the external wound is more easy than that of the contents of the small gut, owing to the greater tixity of the large intestine. 'Diagnosis.—This lesion ought to be suspected if nausea and vomiting, accompanied with faintness, great restlessness, extreme anxiety, cold sweats, colicky pains, and tynqianites, follow immediately or soon after a penetrating wound of the belly. The suspicion is confirmed if, some time after the set- ting in of these symptoms, blood is vomited oi- passed by the rectum. If there is escape of the contents of the intestine through the external Avound, the diagnosis is of course positive. Prognosis.—Though essentially dangerous, these Avounds are not necessa- rily fatal; and no absolute rule can be formulated in respect to their progno- sis, except that they must ahvays be regarded as amongst the gravest acci- dents, and likcl}^ to be folloAved by tlie Avorst results. That some persons die from the shock of even a small Avound, Avhilst others recover from the most des])erate injuries to the abdominal contents, has been already stated, and is Avell knoAvn to surgeons. It is possible that in some penetrating Avounds, as in some cases of bloAV upon the epigastrium, death is produced liy the mere shock to the sympathetic iicrA’Ous system. On the other hand, the abdomen