451 DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES OF THE NOSE. patient’s nioutli cannot lie opened sufficiently to allow of the extraction of a tooth and perforation of the alveolar ridge, the opening may best be made through the canine fossa, as in the former instance, for the sake of tempo- rary relief, and when the acute symptoms have passed otf, the operation may be completed by perforating in the usual way through a tooth cavity into the antrum. The latter operation again is indicated in those instances, rare though they be, where a troublesome, tistulous opening remains as the result of the perforation of an abscess through the cheek or lower eyelid. Enlarge- ment of the sinus, for the purposes of drainage, cannot be undertaken for fear of increasing rather than diminishing the deformity, and its locality prevents its serving the same purpose as a more dependent opening, which should in all instances be made to secure thorough drainage. Effusions of blood may occasionally occur in the antrum, either as the result of direct violence, or in couserpience of nasal hemorrhage, the blood passing into the antrum through the nasal opening. Suppuration may thus he caused. The treatment would be that of ordinary abscess of the antrum. Tumors.—Morbid growths of varied nature are extremely liable to originate within the antrum, or less frerpiently from the alveolar border of the superior maxilla, and involve, in their too often rapid and destructive course, not only the whole cavity of the antrum, but, by gradual extension and breaking down of the thin bony partitions, the cavities of both nose and orbit; the re- sultant displacement and deformity are excessive. Weber, in a careful and instructive study of 307 cases of tumor of the antrum, has shown their rela- tive frecpiency to be as follows : carcinoma, 133 ; sarcoma, 84 ; osteoma, 32 ; cystoma, 20 ; tibroma, 17 ; enchondrorna, 8 ; gelatinoid polypus, 7 ; melanotic sarcoma and carcinoma, 5 ; and, finally, angeioma, 1; hut he remarks that carcinoma occurs too frequently in the list, doubtless from its having lieen frequently confounded with medullary sarcoma, lie believes that the latter embraces rather more than one-third, and carcinoma less than one-third, of all morbid growths of the supcidor maxillary bone. These tumors, their differential diagnosis, and the operations necessary for their removal, are fully considered in other articles. Diseases of the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissues of the ISTose. A number and variety of affections may develop primarily in the integu- ment covering the nasal organ, or may involve it by a process of extension from neighboring parts; of these the commonest are heiqtes, acne, eczema, luevus, sy[)hilis, hpius, and epithelioma ; more rarely, rhino-scleroma and malignant pustule. Gangrene and frost-bite also may claim the attention of the surgeon. These affections are elsewhere considered.* 1 See Vol. I., page 228, and Vol. II., pages 253, 293, GIO et seq. Note to paqe 375.—Several very valnaLle coiitriluitions to onr knowledge of tlie pathology of hay fever, which the reader should hy all means consult, are the following : J. O. Roe, The Patho- logy and Piadical Cure of Ilay Fever or Hay Asthma (New York Med. .Journal, May 3, 1884) ; Ibid., May 12 and 19, 1883; Harrison Allen, Amer. .Journ. Med. Sciences, .Ian. 1884; C. E. Sajous, Hay Fever and its Successful Treatment (Trans. Amer. Laryngological Association, 1884. Abstract, with discussion and remarks hy lirs. Shurly, Bosworth, Mackenzie, Robinson, ami .lohnson. Medical News, May 24, 1884). The I'eader should consult also Hack, Ueher eine opera- tive Radical-.hehandlung hestimmter Formen von Migrilne, Asthma, lleufieber, sowie zahlreicher verwandter lirscheinungen. Wiesbaden, 1884. These contributions to the subject of hay fever have appeared since the above article was written. Tliey throw' much new light upon the obscure and disputed question of causation, and should certainly he read in connection with what is said in the text.