285 OPHTHALMOSCOPIC DISEASES. is always best to look a little obliquelj" into the eye, at first and at all times, except when tbe region of the macula lutea is inspected. In this way the light is not at all painful, nor even dazzling. In the diagnosis of delicate changes in the direct line of vision, dilatation of the pupil is indispensable. There are two methods of examining the eye Avith the ophthalmoscope —one called the direct, and the other the reversed. In the former, the objects s in the fundus are seen in their natural relations. With the latter, they are reversed, above appearing below, and right left. AVe speak likewise of the erect and the reversed image. In direct examination, tlie examined and examiner’s eye must be naturally emmetropic, or rendered so Avith glasses, and the accommodation in Ijoth relaxed. Moreover, the surgeon must approach as closely as possible the eye inspected, bringing his eye almost in contact Avith it. To do this successfully, the right eye must be trained to look at the right eye of the patient, and vice versa. In this Avay alone can he avoid colliding of noses. By the reversed method, Avith a convex lens of three or four inches held before the examined eye, there is greater liberty, and all sorts of cases can be examined Avith more ease. Both methods should be employed in most instances, the one helping to control and explain the other. In ophthalmoscopic examinations, the parallactic movement of ob- jects, at different depths in the eye, is \"ery striking and of great value. This phenomenon is particularly useful in judging of oi)acities in the vitreous, and estimating excavations of the optic papilla, as in glaucoma. Beginners are very prone to diagnose congestion of the optic nerve, but experts knoAv the extreme difficulty of recognizing this condition, and are more cautious. Serious impediments to the retinal circulation lead to swelling of the papilla, tortuosity of the veins, eccliymoses, and other u-nmistakable alterations. As the percipient elements of the retina, the rods and cones, as Avell as the vitreous humor, are nourished by the chorio-capillaris of the choroid, it folloAvs that in nearly all the serious disturbances of the choroidal circula- tion, the vision is impaired, and the vdtreous becomes cloudy. Effusions into the vitreous, from the optic nerve or retina, or hemorrhages, remain close to the part diseased. Impairment of sight from lesions of the choroid, involv- ing directly the terminal nerve elements, is much greater than in more marked changes in the vascular layer of the retina. It is often amazing to find very slight dimness of vision in enormous swelling of the optic nerve, and in otlier alterations equally grave of the retina. It is not safe to base an opinion of the severity of slight disturbances, on the ophthalmoscopic appearances. Functional tests must always be ap])lied first, and are often surprising. A set of test types, Avhich is easily obtained, Avill enable the sui’geon to try the acuity of vision, both for distance and for reading, and to ascertain the accom- modation. A critical examination of the eye and its delicate functions, is often an important aid in the diagnosis of diseases elscAvdiere. For example, in tumors Avithin the cavity of the cranium, Ave often have o})tic neuritis, iiiA’olving both eyes. Its presence in the two eyes at once, or in short succession, directs suspicion to the brain immediately. It may appear at any period of the morbid groAvth, and usually persists till the fatal termination, often lasting for years with its most cljaracteristic symptoms. These are great swelling and prominence of the papilla, extreme tortuosity of the retinal veins, blurring of the natural boundaries of the disk, and, frequently, patches of extravasated blood in tbe retina. Single optic neuritis from other causes, is frequent; as in young women Avith suppressed menstruation, in syphilitic and albumin- uric sulyects, and in some instances Avhere no general disease can be made out. It is sometimes a grave symptom of lead-poisoning, and is apt to lead to atrophy and great damage to vision, if not to its total abolition. Single