680 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. is very irregular in outline. Occasionally, a tracheal fistula remains from incomplete closure of a tracheotomy wound.^ ISlpnptorns.—The symptoms are escape of air, saliva, mucus, pus, and debris from the external orifice. Decomposition of the discharges takes place in consequence of their free exposure to the atmosphere, and the stench becomes horribly fetid in some instances. The voice is considerably altered, and not at all audible in a fissure of any size below the vocal bands, unless the orifice be occluded with the finger or with a compress. Cough is harassing. Dys- phagia exists in some instances. Emaciation is sometimes extreme. Symp- toms of septic poisoning become superadded in some cases, especially in those which are about to terminate fatally. Diagnosis.—The external communication with the interior of the air-pas- sage is so obvious on inspection that a mistake in diagnosis is hardly possible. Sometimes the internal orifice can be detected laryngoscopically, even when quite minute, especially wlien a probe can be passed through the track, as in Iv. de la Sota’s case, above referred to. Lb-ognosis.—The probability of successful obliteration is dependent upon the nature of the disease or injury by which the fistula has been produced, the size of the orifice in the air-tuhe, and the preservation of sutficient sur- rounding integument to admit of its closure by adhesive inflammation or by plastic operation. In Bennett’s case, due to ulceration by lupus, the fistula closed completely under the inflammatory process excited by an inter- current erysipelas, which commenced at the fistula, and extended over the neck, face, and upper part of the body. A large fistula cannot be cured, but the orifice maybe occluded with a compress wlien the patient wishes to talk, and may be kept hidden from siglit by some simple apparatus worn around the neck. Life may be prolonged for years under such conditions, as in a ease of tracheal fistula known to Van Swieten, and reported by Boyet,^ and in the case of laryngeal fistula mentioned on page 639. Treatment.—In small fistulie, the borders of which are covered by integu- ment, it has been recommended by Diefienbach,^ to touch the edges with tincture of cantharides, and then draw them together by sutures, which are allowed to remain for six or eight days. IVhen the inteiloi’ of the trachea is exposed, the same surgeon excises a small wedge of integument above and below, detaching the edges sufficiently to secure apposition without tension, and then inserts four or more points of twisted suture. If the edges are indurated, he makes a long vertical incision on each side, and detaches the flaps from the subjacent tissues. Watsoid recommends removing a circular section of integument from the circumference of the opening, and uniting the wound with twisted sutures. Le Fort® in one case freshened the edges of the orifice, applied semi-elliptic flaps of integument, taken from above and below, and secured them with stitches, which Avere remoA^ed on the sixth day. A small opening, Avhich remained from the giving Avay of the middle stitch, yielded to cauterizations Avith nitrate of silver. In a large fistula from suicidal Avound, a friend succeeded in closing the gap, at my suggestion, by adjusting a flap, cutaneous side iiiAvard, cutting the exuberant portion loose after adhesion had taken place, and replacing it upon the proximal portion of the gap in the integument—the distal iior- tion having been united by tAvisted suture at the initial operation. It is a matter of regret that my notebooks fail to trace this device to its originator, ■ For a case reported after laryngotomy for diphtheria, see Dupuis, Deutsche Zeitschrift fitr Chirurgie, 25 Marz, 1875 ; Lefferts’s Reports, New York Med. Jour., July, 1875, p. 84. 2 Cited by Cruveilhier (Traite d’Anatomie Pathologiqire, t. ii. p. 560. Paris, 1852). ® Die operative Chirurgie, Bd. i. S. 508. * Edinburgh Med. Jour., April, 1844. ® Dictiomiaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques. Article Larynx, p. 287. Paris, 1875,