280 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. distended sac free from accumulations, and the use of mild, local astringents, with care in avoiding exposure, constitute the measures which may be em- ploj-ed for palliation. A surer way to stave off acute abscess is to slit the upper canaliculus cpiite down to the sac, so as to give free and easy vent to the irritating secretions. This allows also of more thorough cleansing of the diseased sac by syringing. These measures, however, only help in keeping matters from growing worse. The radical and complete cure of dacryocystitis and its consequences, is seldom accomplished, but great relief and comfort, often quite satisfactory to the patient, can nearly always he expected. The first and essential step in the curative treatment, is surgical. Free access to the sac must be had, to allow of the necessary treatment of the diseased mucous lining and of the stric- ture. There lingers still, in the popular mind, an impression that a precious tube, of some kind, must be placed in the nasal duct, but the use of such an instrument has long since been abandoned, as well as all means of dilatation through an opening in the skin. These obstructions are now treated exclusively through the natural channels, and generally through the upper canalicidus. This is slit well down into the sac, and kept ojien, as mentioned above. For this purpose a Weber’s probe-knife is the best instrument. The patient should sit on a low chair, or, better, lie on the operating lounge. The surgeon stands behind the head for the right eye, and in front for the left, using of course his right hand. The punctum must have been dilated, with a conical probe, so as to admit the knife. An assistant renders the canal tense, by drawing the skin of the lid out- wards and upwards. The knife is passed in till it reaches the cavity of the sac, and till the blunt point rests firmly against the inner bony wall. Then keeping it firmly there, the hand is slowly raised and the mucous mem- brane divided well down into the corner. Without withdrawing the knife or relaxing the pressure against the inner wall, it is raised to a vertical posi- tion, pushed gently downwards, the edge turned a little forwards, and made to incise or notch the sac. Thus free admission is secured for a large probe. It is better tliat the sac should be distended at the time of the operation. This facilitates the different steps, and shows when the sac is well opened, by a gush of mucus. Slight bleeding takes place, but it is soon over. It is seldom necessary to give ether. Waiting a few minutes, the jirobe may be passed in for exploring and overcoming the stricture. A full set of Bow- man’s flexible silver probes (Fig. 879) must be at hand. But for safety, and Fig. 879. Bowman’s probes. for certainty as to the seat of the stricture, I have for many years used probes with bulbous expansions near the end (Fig. 880). The enlarged end is about ten mm. long, and the thickest portion in the middle. The rest of the instru- ment is decidedly smaller. Two of different sizes, one two mm. and the other two and one-half mm. at the thickest part of the bulb, may be made on oppo-