INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 810 wound. Tlie fatality of liernorrhage from this vessel is very great, as is proven by the statistics collected by Giinther (19 cases of "wound, 9 ascer- tained cures, 2 probable cures, and 8 deaths). The rarity of detection of a wound of this vessel, and its fatality, are well shown by the records of the American war:— Only five or six cases are found on tlie records in which wounds of the internal mam- mary vessel were distinctly recognized. Three of these were treated by compression and styptics, and two by ligation. But there are many other recorded instances of wounds near the edge of the sternum, with hemorrhage, yet without ha-moptysis, in some of which the existence of this lesion may fairly be suspected. As it was fatal in tlie five cases in which it was detected, it merits serious attention. The o})erations on this vessel, practised in the third or upper intercostal spaces, by vertical, oblique, or transverse incisions, with or without the removal of a costal cartilage, have all been formulated, and present no great difficulty in the normal structure of the parts involved, though I can fully conceive that there might be the highest degree of difficulty in the conditions likely to be present in cases of secondary hemorrhage. But in jiractice these operations have most often failed, for the direct ligature or control of the bleeding point, or the inclusion, rather, of the bleeding orifice between two ligatures, is the only method to be relied on in case of a vessel so freely anas- tomosing along all its course with arteries of considerable size. It would appear, then, that the attempt should always be made to secure the vessel in the wound—if necessary, by removal of bone or cartilage. The symptoms which in combination indicate that the lung has been involved in a penetrating wound of the chest are, dyspnoea, haemoptysis, and a greater or less development of the phenomena of shock; there may, in addition, be evidence of the accumulation of air and of blood in the pleural cavity, and, it may be, the escape of blood and air from the wound with each act ot expiration. When all or the greater number of these phenomena are pi’esent, there can be no doubt that the lung is wounded; but many, if not all, ma}' be wanting or ecpiivocal in degree, and yet the lung not have escaped, while, on the other hand, many may be present without the lung being involved. Shock and dysjnicea are the common property of both superficial and deep wounds of the chest, and even when present in a marked degree they do not afford reliable evidence of penetration of the lung. llicmoptysis, the most essential symptom, may be absent even in deej) wounds of the lung, particularly iii gunshot wounds and in injuries inflicted by blunt points ; and the escape of air and blood externally from the wound, \\'ith the motions of breathing, and the evidence afforded by percussion and aus- cultation of their accumulation in tlie chest, are phenomena which are common to wounds Avhich merely penetrate the yileural cavity, and to those in wliicli the lung is implicated. In the absence or temporar3' sup[)ression of these s^'iiiptoms, the surgeon is strongly tempted to explore the wound b}’ probe or finger, in order to determine its direction, and so complete the diagnosis. Hid the highest authorities have condemned this practice, and the records of military surgery are not wanting in evidence of the fact that such inter- ference has been at once and evidently fatal. There is, too, ample proof that, in man^^ cases, even when such ex]doration has been made by both ])i‘obe and linger, only negative and fallacious conclusions have resulted. Far safer is it for the surgeon to be content to fear the worst and hope foi- the best, even at the sacrifice of reputation for skill and decision, rather than 1)3' a rasli exploration to open up a cavit3’" as yet uninvolved, or ixqirovoke an arrested hemorrhage. “ If the surgeon is not too busy with his fingers or probe—too curious to know what will be of little use—the wound in the lung