388 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. Seiler^ extols tlie use of a powder of nitrate of silver, or, in certain cases, a spray of an iron solution. Carbolic acid, salicylic acid, iodine, bromide of potassium, belladonna, and tbe like, are also employed. In the later stages, after the cleansing process, tbe use of disinfectant solutions plays an important part, succeeded probably by the use of some powder containing pulverized iodoform. Tbe treatment of so-called ozjena, as described in the next section, is also applicable here. OziENA.—Tbe affection wdiich has just been described, atrophic, or as it is sometimes called in its later stages fetid, nasal catarrh, is j^recisely iden- tical in its pathology, appearances, symptoms, and results, with tbe dis- ease which is commonly termed ozcena. Of this I think there can be no doubt, certainly in the majority of cases. But it is possible, as claimed by Michel, that in exceptional instances the original seat of the disease may be in the accessory sinuses of the nose, and only ultimately lead to the changes described below. The term ozfena, however, as it is generally used—to indicate a disease, rather than describe a symptom, and to cover a class of nasal affections, varied in their causation, but all possessing one promi- nent syin}»tom in common, viz., an intensely disagreeable smell or fetor, associated usually with a thick crust-fonnation in the nasal passage—leads to much misconception. Of these nasal diseases, syphilis, with its destructive inroads upon both the bones and cartilages of the organ, is the most com- mon. But the same symptom is also present in other ulcerative affections of the parts, such as struma, lupus, and glanders, and it is even not wanting, in a lesser degree, in obstruction of tbe nasal passages from any cause, especially long retention of a foreign body, with resultant accumulation of the discharges and their decomposition. To class, however, all these affections under one name, on account of the similarity of one of their symptoms, is manifestly to vary widely from the truth, leads Vnit to confusion, and detracts attention from their true nature, the correct appreciation of which is of importance both on diag- nostic and therapeutic grounds. It seems to me preferable, therefore, to re- strict the term ozaena—if it be deemed desirable to retain it—to those cases of ulcerative disease of the nose, such as syphilis, struma, lupus, etc., in which fetor is a prominent symptom, and is dependent upon necrosis of bone; and even then to use the term only with a cpialifying adjective, as syphilitic oztena, etc. The terms eatarrhus atrophicus ozcenicans and rhinitis atrophica^ it may be mentioned, bave both been suggested by foreign authorities to replace the name ozaena in the nomenclature of nasal diseases. E. FraenkeP informs us that, up to the present time, four reports of accu- rate post-mortem examinations in cases of rhinitis atrophica, or so-called ozaena, have l)een made, by Hartmann,^ Gottstein,^ Fnienkel, and Krause f these all found large nasal cavities, and slight development of all the turbi- nated liones, and they agree also in the results of their microscopic investigations, which showed connective-tissue change in the mucous membrane, with partial degeneration of the secreting elements. Zaufal builds bis theory, as to the causation of the disease, on the existence of these large cavities (which he considers to be congenital), and believes all subsequent changes in the mucous membrane, and the fetor, to be consecu- tive to their enlargement and to the consequent accumulation of tbe products of secretion. In this view he is suppcu’ted by Hartmann and IMartin.® Fraenkel differs from this view, and agrees with Gottstein and Schaffer in regarding Breslau aerztl. Zeitsehrift. 1879. ® De I’OzeiiB vrai. Paris, 1881. 1 Med. and Surg. Reporter, April 19, 1884. 2 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. Ixxxvii. 4 Feb. 1882. 3 Deutsch. med. Wochensclir., No. 13, 1878. 5 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 85. 1881. ill.