446 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. of the hydatid and steatomatons varieties, cases are reported by Langenbeck* and Brunn, in addition to several instances collected by Deinarquay.^ The diagnosis is necessarily obscure, until the growth of the cyst, which resembles a chronic abscess in its development, has so thinned the anterior wall of the frontal sinus that fluctuation can l>e detected, and an exploratory puncture made. The contents of the cyst may then be evacuated, and its sac either excised or stimulated to contraction by the use of an injection of iodine or some astringent wash, or it may be pierced through into the nasal passages, for the establishment of thorough drainage, as in chronic abscess. Myxomatous or gelatinous j^olypi may either be developed within the frontal sinus, or extend into it from the nose, causing by their growth, in either case, deformity, attenuation of the bony walls, and pain. They are commonly single, but may be multiple. Seven examples of polypi of all descriptions— including 1\\q fibrous variety, which is very rare, but which may by its rapid grow^th extend into all the neighboring cavities, even that of the cranium— are reported by Demarquay; and additional cases of interest may be found detailed by Watson^ and Leveret.^ Viallet and Rouger report a case in which a polypus was associated with an exostosis of the cavity. The diag- nosis having been established, the removal of the growth is effected by either the knife or the gouge, after the trephine and a crucial incision through the skin have given direct access to it. Osteoma,curiously enough, have a peculiar preference for this region of the body, but constitute a very rare variety of tumor. Composed either of cancellated tissue, or of a compact tissue wliich renders the growth hard, ivory-like, or eburnated, and developed in the diploe of the frontal bone, they may attain a considerable size and occasion much distortion of the parts. Diagnosis as to their nature is not always easy. Attention has already been called to the fact that the tendency of all affections of the frontal sinus is, in the first instance, to cause distension of its bony walls, and thus to simu- late very closely a bony tumor. The slow progress, unyielding hardness, and absence of inflammatory symptoms in true bony growths, will serve, ir a short time, however, to render their true character plain. Occasionally, when small, they may readily be extirpated through an external incision made into the anterior wall of the orbit, or into the sinus; but the fact that they often extend backwards as well as forwards, even into the cranial fossie, involving both bones and membranes, will render the surgeon cautious in undertaking operative interference which may be both difficult and danger- ous. In many, perhaps a majority, of cases, if we may judge from those recorded, an operation is out of the question. Malignant disease of a sarcomatous character, is, according to Gross, more common than is generally imagined. Epithelioma^ when found in the frontal sinus, will usually have extended from some of the adjacent structures. Of scirrhous, colloid and melanotic cancer of the sinus, we possess no examples recorded in literature. The development of any of the varieties of tumor here enumerated is attended by certain characteristic appearances; the external distortion in the configuration of the frontal sinus and its adjacent parts, often to such an ex- tent as to produce the most hideous deformity, has already been alluded to, while absorption of the bony walls by the continued pressure, displacement of the eyeball outwards or downwards, distortion of the nose and of various < Mackenzie, Diseases of the Eye, p. 16. “ Tumeurs de I’Orbite, p. 95. Op. cit., p. 139. ■' Observations sur la Cure de plusieurs Polypes, p. 235. Paris, 1749. 5 See Boenbaupt (Case of osteoma of the left frontal sinus, with remarks on osteotomata de- veloping in the accessory cavities of the nose). Arch, fiir klin. Chir., Bd. xxvi. S. 589. 1881.