INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. 472 and tying in sections until the whole circumference is strangulated. Or a number of parallel ligatures may be passed through the tumor, and intersected Fig. 944. Telangeiectasis of lip strangulated by ligatures crossing each other at right angles. by others at right angles, as represented in the diagram. (Fig. 944.) When the two ends of each ligature are firmly tied in the direction of the dotted lines, the whole mass will be divided into quadrangular segments, and the vascular growth will be obliterated. Port-AV ine Marks. Dark discolorations of the integument of the face, forming circumscribed patches resembling in color the stains occasioned by port wine, are some- times observed as a congenital affection. They are only important as affect- ing the personal ai^pearance of the patient. AVhen they are small, they may be excised, or the surface may be destroyed by means of the actual or potential cautery. In 1876, a pamphet was published by Dr. Balmanno Squire, describ- ing his method of treating port-wine marks. Ilis plan is to freeze the part by the ether-spray apparatus, then scratch it with an ordinary cataract needle in parallel lines about one-sixteenth of an inch apart, then place a piece of blotting paper on it before it has thawed, pressing the paper firmly on the scratched skin for five minutes. ISText day he repeats the operation if necessary, the lines being in an oblique or transverse direction to the original scratches. The scratches need not divide the entire thickness of the skin. The part must be well frozen, both that the operation may be painless, and to avoid any liemorrhage. In applying the blotting-paper, the pressure should be absolutely perpendicular to the surface; for if the slightest lateral traction be made, the miniature incisions will gape slightly, and so become plugged with minute, wedge-shaped clots of blood, with resulting, indelible, linear scars. After relaxing the pressure, the paper should be allowed to remain for at least half an hour. Then it should be thoroughly wetted, and gently removed, traction being made in the same direction as the incisions, so as not to tear them open. The thin clot of blood which covers the part after removal of the pajier, should be gently washed off with a camel's hair brush and cold water, and then a film of glycerine should be carefully applied.