1166 HERNIA. integument, often attenuated by stretching, and under it a thin prolonga- tion of the deep fascia, with tibres from the aponeurosis of the linea alba. These are usually blended intimately with the serous peritoneal sac, with but little subserous connective tissue. Diagnosis of Umbilical Hernia.—Umbilical hernia in the child may be mistaken for dropsy of the funis, or for a sarcoma or carcinoma growing from or near the navel, or for a cyst. It may be distinguished by its'dilating impulse on crying, and by its compressibility and total disappearance on con- tinued, gentle pressure. In the adult, it is most likely to be mistaken for a fatty or otlier tumor; it is also distinguishable by the above signs, and by its getting larger or smaller as the patient stands or sits up, or lies down; by its tympanic sound on percussion when it contains bowel; by its yielding on being kneaded when it contains feces, and by its flatulent croaking and bor- borygmus when it contains air. Impacted feces, causing obstruction of the bowels, give a peculiar, lumpy feel, and may be sometimes distinguished from hardened masses of omentum by assuming different shapes under pres- sure. In one case, seen by myself, rounded masses were felt, wldch were found to be intra-peritoneal concretions of coagulated albumen, like billiard- balls, which had found their way into the sac. I have also found like con- cretions in inguinal and crural herniie of old standing. They seem to be formed by deposits of coagulable lymph upon nuclei of fat, in shape and structure resembling the “ appendices epiploic®” which have afterwards be- come detached, leaving a mark indicating their former connection. In ascitic patients, an umbilical sac may be filled with fluid and contain no viscera. Treatment op Umbilical Hernia.—Congenital umbilical hernia in children under puberty is rarely, if ever, strangulated. It tends naturally towards a cure, and rerpiires only the aid of proper and efficient pressure to accomplish it. For very young infants, nothing is better than a penny-piece wrapped up in adhesive plaster, with the stick}- side outward, placed on tlie opening after carefully pressing the contents into the abdomen, with the point of the finger. Over this pad, transverse straps of soap plaster, one inch Avide, and long enough to reach Avell over the sides of the abdomen, should be firmly applied, and a light flannel belt over all. This should be changed AvheneA'er it begins to curl off or to slip doAvn, and the skin in the neighborhood should be Avell cleansed and dried, and then dusted with starch-poAvder to prevent exco- riation. The common practice of putting on a conical pad of cork cannot be too much deprecated and'condemned. Any plug passing into the umbilical opening, although apparently making it more secure against slipping, tends powerfully to preA®nt, instead of aiding, in the closure of the aperture. In the section on Trusses Avill be found a description of the pads Avhich I employ to produce a radical cure of umlnlical heiTiia, and from the use of Avhich, in older cases, many cures have resulted. They should be emplo}-ed Avhen- evei’ the adhesive plaster makes the child’s skin sore and excoriated. The truss Avhich I use for reducible umbilical hernia, in adults, Avill be found described in the section on Trusses. That for irreducible hernia should be an air-pail, in the holloAV of a concave, thin. German-metal plate, fitted on to the tumor, the edge of Avbich is protected by a rounded air-pad, to pre- vent it from chafing the skin around. This sliould be held in place by a laced lielt coming doAvn to the groins, Avith elastic side-])ieces. The thin plate protects the rupture from injuries or A-iolent pressure in front. In the application of the taxis to the umbilical hernia of children, simple pressure betAveen the finger and thumb, the child being in the recumbent posture, Avill, in most cases, suffice, if persevered in gently and persistently.