MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 166 most, ill the first place, be allowed that the operation is not in itself danger- ous, and that it is applied to a disease the prognosis of which is extremely grave. This point therefore can be urged in favor of the operation, that it is not likely to do much harm even if it effects little good. There is no doubt, however, that in many cases it has been followed by temporary relief, even if cure has not ultimately followed. The following appear to he the cases most suitable for paracentesis. As a general rule it may be practised in cases of great enlargement, with steady increase. In eases of external hy- drocephalus, it is more likely to he followed by a good result than in cases of ventricular dropsy. It would be inapplicable to cases due to cerebral mal-de- velopment, and it is unfortunate that such cases cannot always be diagnosed, inasmuch as tlie functional disturbances that accompany the disease bear no constant relation to the amount of organic defect. Paracentesis is likely to fail in congenital cases, in cases associated witli preceding acute cerebral dis- ease, and in cases marked by extreme mal-nutrition. Indeed, in such instances, its employment is rather to he condemned. Malgaigne^ advises the operation ; 1st, in patients under four months old, in whom the disease appears stationary ; 2d, in children beyond that age, hut who have not yet reached the period of complete cranial ossification, in whom the disease is increasing and threaten- ing life. The operation should be performed with a very fine trocar, which should be entered in the coronal suture, about one inch from the anterior fontanelle. The instrument should he thrust downwards, and a little backwards. Only a few ounces of fluid siiould he drawn off at a time, and the operation should he repeated at intervals of from a few days to a few weeks, according to the condition of the patient, and the rate at which the dropsy is increasing. Com- pression of the skull should be maintained, both during and after each opera- tion. Dr. Thompson,'^ of Newcastle, reports a case in which two tappings ended in cure. In some instances iodine injections have been associated with paracentesis, hut so far with unsatisfactory results. Sir James PageP treated a case in this manner, tlirowing in about three ounces of a solution composed of ten grains of iodine and twenty grains of iodide of potassium to one ounce of water. The child died of convulsions three days after the second injection had been employed. ■ Malgaigne, De la Ponction du Crane dans PHydrocepliale chronique. Bull, de Therap., tome xix. p. 226. 1840. * Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlvii. page 289. 1864. ^ Medical Times and Gazette, vol. ii. page 613. 1860.