G51 (EDEMA OF THE LARYNX. to rid the throat of the obstruction within; and saliva and mucus are some- times expectorated. The voice gets feeble, then indistinct, and finally extinct in some instances. Dysphagia exists in consequence of the swollen epiglottis or margin of the larynx, and sometimes amounts to aphagia. Forced deglutition has sometimes proved immediately fatal. Restlessness soon ensues. Sleep may be impossible from fear of sufibeation, or occasional slumbers are soon broken by sutfocative paroxysms. These often subside quickly at first, leaving intervals of absolutely unimpeded respiration—fur- ther evidence in favor of the nervous origin of the dyspnoea and the stridor. The obstruction to breathing is at first confined to the inspiratory phase of the act, and is generally attributed to occlusion of the entrance of the larynx, by contact of the tumid folds of tissue approximated by the force of the atmospheric current upon them. This turning in of the upper portion of a pair of oedematous aryteno-epiglottie folds can be recognized laryngoscopic- ally, and' occasionally directly, in cases of incised wound through the hyo- thyroid membrane, even though the inferior portions of the swollen tissues are drawn apart by the separation of the arytenoid cartilages in the inspira- tory act. After a while breathing becomes obstructed in the expiratory phase of the process also. The usual physical phenomena of sufibeation are recognized: general agitation; anxious countenance; face Hushed at first, and then livid; lips and tongue blue ; eyeballs projecting ; respiration shallow, hurried, and perhaps spasmodic or gasping ; pulse small, quick, and frequent. Iteath may ensue in the first paroxysm, or in any subsequent one. In acute cedema the paroxysms are usualfy aljrupt, violent, and irregularly recurrent at intervals of a few hours. Slight agitation or emotion may bring them on. In chronic cedema they usually follow steadily increasing dyspiima, culmi- nating in a paroxysm which is followed by relief to the difficulty of breath- ing, and does not recur for a fbw days, or even for a few Aveeks. The inter- vals gradually diminish, until finally several paroxysms a day may occur, those at night being the most severe. The subjective symptoms of subglottic oedema of the larynx are similar to those of acute laryngitis, with the addition of mild symptoms of ordinary oedema of the larynx ; but the stridulent dyspnoea is present in l)oth phases of respiration, and is attended Avitli a noisier hoarseness. There is more cough, and more expectoration of mucus, rings of fibrinous sputa being sometimes ejected. Dysphagia does not occur unless there be (ndema of the up[»er aperture of the larynx also. Diagnosis.—The tongue, palate, uvida, tonsils, and even the pharynx, sometimes show evidence of infiltration—usually when the tcdema is the result of acute infiarnmation; Init in many instances there is no manifesta- tion of disease in these structures. In some cases the cedematous ejtiglottis is visible without depression of the tongue; in otliers it is brouglit into view by that manipulation. If the tongue be so far depressed as to induce retching, the swollen aryteno-epiglottie folds will sometimes come into view. The marked inspiratory dyspnma, with comparative freedom in the expi- ratory })hase of breathing, is to be regarded as a characteristic symptom, though l>y no means pathognomonic. According to Dillard,' mdema of the larynx in the new-born is indicated by a i)cculiar, bleating cry, veiled and incomplete. Digital exploration will readily detect oedema of the epiglottis or of the aryteno-epiglottie folds ; but the manipulation has lieen knoivn to produce serious sufibcative phenomena.^ Forward and upward manipulation ' Op, cit., p. 489. * Trousseau, Clin. Med., New Syd. Society’s transl., vol. iii. p. 98.