525 DISEASES OF THE GUMS. hypertrophy of the gum-edge increases, but it does not alter its character or lose its sharply defined limit. The teeth, when the affection exists, become slowly dislocated and pushed into irregular positions ; they ultimately become very loose; when extracted, scarcely any blood Hows. When the tooth is removed, the gum heals very slowly indeed, and the edge of the wound long continues of the same pale transparent aspect.” Epulis is a term often used to include any form of tumor involving the gum, but may be conveniently restricted to the fibrous form which alone is strictly connected with the gum and alveolus. It is a slowly growing tumor, arising most commonly between two teeth which may or may not be decayed. 13y pressure it tends to sepai-ate the teetli if they are health}', or it may completely cover in the stumps of decayed teeth. As epulis is closely connected with the periosteum of the alveolus, mere cutting away of the growth is insufficient for its eradication, and notliing less than cutting away the portion of alveolus from which it springs, or inducing its exfoliation by the ap}»lication of the actual cautery, can be relied on. In order to do this, it is generally necessary to sacrifice the tooth on each side of the growfli, and occasionally in removing the tooth the whole growth comes away, being in these cases attached to tlie pcri-odontal membrane, instead of to the alve- olar periosteum. An epulis, on section, is found to consist of dense fibrous tissue, closely resembling the normal gum, and it frequently contains masses of bone, which may or may not lie directly continuous with the alveolus. According to Cornil and Eanvier, the common epulis is an ossifying sarcoma, the bone transformation being of an imperfect description. Myeloid tumors are not uncommon about the alveoli (hence “ myeloid epulis”), but are only tlie superficial portions of deeper growths. The remarkable feature about these growths is the dark color which is often to be seen on the surface of the gum-tumor jirevious to, or, more frequently, after removal. A very thorough and complete removal of these growths is necessary to insure a cure, and hence they are more properly classed among tumors of the jaw, which they commonly involve. I’apilloma occasionally affiects the gums and requires free removal. Salter describes a case of the kind which occurre<l in Sir W. Eergusson’s practice, and in which recurrence after i-emoval had frequently taken place. Ulceration of the gum occurs in children as the result of stomatitis,^ but in the adult may be due to struma, sy})bills, or epithelioma. Salter^ narrates a case of strumous ulceration affecting the gums and palate in a youth of nineteen, of highly strumous diathesis, and thinks that the disease may be more common than is supposed. Syphilitic ulceration may affect the gums as Avell as other portions of the buccal mucous mcndiraiie, and occurs as a rule before middle age. Epithelioma affects the gums in patients over forty, and is often apparently connected with irritation caused by ill-fitting tooth-plates. Any ulceration in the mouth of an elderly patient which does not heal readily, should arouse a suspicion of c}iithelioma, and I insist upon this strongly, because, in the early stage, cases of this description are generally seen by dentists, who do not always ap[>reciate tlie full gravity of the case and tlie necessity for prompt interference. When fidly developed, the ulceration is ragged and irregular, and tends to spread from the gum to the cheek exter- nally, or to the side of the tongue internally. The teeth in the neighborhood > See p. 495. Op. cit.