783 MOTOR DISTURBANCES OF THE INTRINSIC LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. caused by extensive disorganization of the brain from carcinoma and Cliees- man,^ a case of unilateral paralysis from aneurism of the arch of the aorta, in Fig. 1100. Forced inspiration. Fig. 1101. Expiration. Fig. 1102. Attempted phonatiou. ■which the abduction of the vocal band was sufficient to enable bim to dis- tinguish the pulsations of the aneurism at the terminus of the trachea. It seems plausible, as suggested by Rossbach,^ that, in accordance with analogy in muscular functional activity elsewhere, the abductors (dilators) should suffer first in all cases of paralysis of the recurrent nerve, in the same manner that the extensors and abductors are j)aralyzed first in all other cases of paralysis of nerves or nerve-centres, while the sphincters, which correspond to the adductors (constrictors) of the larynx, are attacked last. Tills does not necessarily exclude the possibility of exceptions to the rule. But the uncertainty as to the part that the superior laryngeal nerve may take in the innervation of the arytenoideus muscle, and the intricacy of the bilateral innervation of that muscle for duty on the two sides, present so many fea- tures for recognition, that the etiology of pure adductor-paralysis, as well as of other forms of laryngeal paralysis, awaits satisfactory elucidation in the very face of the striking laiyngoscopic pictures of paralysis under almost continuous observation. It is not known wliether tlie double function of the recurrent laryngeal nerve is due to innervation by a common centre, or whether distinct centres preside over separate sets of filaments; wliile the infiuence which the nucleus of the pneumogastric may exercise upon abduc- tion of the vocal bands as an organic feature of the respiratory act, is a prob- lem yet unsolved. Paralysis of long duration often leads to degeneration of the nei’ve, and to degeneration and atrophy of the inactive muscles. Inaction of tlie muscles may lead to anchylosis, as in articulations generally. Diagnosis.—paralysis of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx may be inferable from objective symptoms, its due recognition necessitates laryn- goscopic inspection. Paralysis of the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle {ahductor, Mackenzie) is recog- nized by fixation of the vocal band in the plionatory position. Unilateral paralysis is, for anatomical reasons, much more frequent on the left side. Bilateral paralysis comes especially under the domain of surgery, for inspi- ratory dyspnoea is then so urgent that suftbeation becomes imminent, and sometimes inevitable, unless prophylactic tracheotomy be performed, espe- cially when any tendency is manifested to spasm of the antagonizing muscles. The vocal bands cannot be abducted to any distance by the most powerful ' Hoarseness, Loss of Voice, and Stridulous Breathing, pp. -4—ti. London, 18G8. * Med. Record, Sept. 22, 1882, p. 33.'». * Breslauer aerztliche Zeitschrift., Nos. 2 und 3, 1880; Trans. International Medical Con- gress, vol. iii. p. 222. London, 1881.