1018 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1 Trans. Fath. Soc. Loud., vol i. p. 278. the coils of intestine matted together and adherent .,0 the parts around, above; and lastly, the}’ are formed between the parietal peritoneum on the one side, and adherent omentum, small or large intestine, or stomach, on the other. Ill fact, there is no end to the variety in the mode of formation of these circumscribed, fecal, peritoneal abscesses. Extra-peritoneal abscesses may be situated in the abdominal parietes on the front or sides of the abdomen, and may begin between or beneath the muscular strata of the abdomen; or they may be retro-peritoneal in position, as many of those are ivhich arise from ulceration or sloughing of the vermiform appendix, as well as those which begin in simple suppuration of the retro- peritoneal cellular tissue about the kidney and elsewhere ; in other cases they commence beneath the pelvic fascia in pelvic cellulitis, disease of the pelvic bones, or as the result of sloughing of the bowel in cases of reduction en masse of a femoral hernia; in other cases, again, tliey open at the scrotum or on the inner side of the thigh, on the buttocks, in the perineum, or at the back of the trunk. Psoas, iliac, and ilio-pelvic abscesses occasionally become fecal. Both intra-peritoneal and extra-peritoneal fecal abscesses may either be fecal in their origin or become fecal in tlieir progress. Probably the extra- peritoneal are the commonest, both in the primary and secondary forms. Causes.—The primary abscesses most frecpiently result from some obstruc- tion in the bowels, giving rise to perforation by ulceration of the intestinal Avails, above the seat of obstruction. Cancer of the stomaeli, small intestines, cjeciini, colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum ; the pressure of some tumor out- side the boAvel, or of a foreign body within it; the ulceration caused by g'all- stones ; the various diseased states of the appendix ereci; and tubercular and simple ulcers of the howel; and, lastly, injuries to the abdomen, are all knoAvn causes of primary fecal abscess, both Avithin and Avithout the peritoneal caAdty. Cancer is prol)ably the commonest of all causes, and the morbid product sometimes infiltrates the Avhole of the Avails of the abscess. A case w’as in the Middlesex Hospital, in 1881, under the care of Dr. Cayley, in which epithelioniatous ulceration of the sigmoid tlexure liad led to a fecal abscess, Avhich contained about four ounces of black, fetid, feculent fluid. The tissues around the abscess Avere inflltrated w'ith cancer, and the edges of the ulcer in the bowel Avere hard Avith cancerous deposit. After cancer, disease of the appendix creci is the next most common cause; and cases are very frequently met Avith in Avhich, ulcerated, perforated, or sloughing, this appendage of the ctecum is found adherent to the back of the crecuni, and in connection with a fecal abscess in the right iliac fossa. In other cases the csecal appendix, having descended along the inguinal canal in a hernial sac, to which it has become adherent, has given rise to one or more fecal abscesses in the scrotum. Mr. Shaw, my much respected colleague at the Middlesex Hospital, has recorded* a very interesting and instructive case, in Avhich a succession of abscesses resulting in listula*. formed in a scrotal tumor of very obscure nature. Tlie matter discharged at lirst Avas healthy pus, but soon it became sanious, very ofl'ensive, and afterwards Avas of a pale orange color, but never distinctly feculent. The quantity discharged was ahvays profuse, but sometimes increased greatly Avithout any corresponding change in the con- dition of the tumor. There Avas no pus in the stools, and no interference Avhatever Avith the action of the bowels. The patient died at the end of a year, exhausted, and then tlie case was found to be one of omental hernia ; the omentum adherent to the sac enveloped the vermiform appendix, Avhich Avas healthy all the Avay doAvn to A\ ithin half an inch of its blind extremity, where it was in great part destroyed by ulceration, and communi- cated Avith the sinuses in the scrotum. The [)atient Avas an old man Avho Avas supposed