WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 579 inflammation and eft'usion whicli are apt to occur within the larynx, together with the contraction and deformity which may follow. (See Volume II., pages 223, 240, 247.) Wounds of the Neck. Wounds of all kinds have to be treated in tlie neck, and though in their general features they do not differ from similar injuries in other parts, yet from the mode of their infliction—being for the most part homicidal or sui- cidal—from the structures usually involved, as well as from the severe and dangerous complications which may follow, they are especially important and interesting. Many of these lesions are fully dealt with in other portions of this work. In the present article they can be considered but generally and concisely. Suicide by cutting the throat is more commonly attempted in Great Britain than elsewhere, in proportion to other modes of self-destruction. Homicidal wounds of the neck are also not infrequent. All sorts of weapons have been used, and every degree of injury and very various complications have had to be dealt with. That wounds of the neck are frequently seen in military practice, is shown in the official reports of the recent European and Ameri- can wars. Eoreign bodies, too, may be buried and lost in the tissues of the neck. Wounds of the neck may be superficial, and uncomplicated by the lesion of any important structure ; or deep (that is, ]»enetrating the fascia), and then they usually involve bloodvessels and nerves of importance. There may be a very extensive division of the soft parts, and yet the windpipe and great vessels may escape; while with a small, external wound, there may be serious, deep injury, the exact nature of which may be difficult to ascertain. It is by con- sidering the nature of the weapon which has inflicted the wound ; the direction and depth of its penetration ; the clothing of the parts at tlie time ; the nature of what escapes (air, arterial or venous blood, food, or mucus); the effects on the function of the larynx, lungs, oesophagus, and nerves; the occurrence or not of emphysema; and also, in case of an assault, by taking into account the relative position of the assailant to tlie sufferer, that a judgment is to be formed. In gunshot-wounds, it is seldom that the modern bullet is deflected from its course as the old round ball used to be, but even the conical liall, if much spent and travelling at a low rate of speed, may take a devious and unexpected course in the neck. Large, ojten wounds are of course easily judged of, as they admit of being examined by the eye and finger. The external jiujular vein^ from its superficial |»osition, may lie injured in comparatively shallow wounds. Pressure will often arrest the bleeding. If not, tlie vessel should be tied on both sides of the wound. The entrance of air might, of course, prove a serious danger. Wounds of the thyroid body may prove very dangerous from lileeding. The lips of transverse wounds of the neck gape much, but those of longi- tudinal wounds, such as are made by the surgeon, seldom do so. The elastic- ity of the skin and the action of the platysma usually cause the lips of trans- verse wounds to curl inwards, and it is in order to secure their more accurate ap[)Osition that sutures have been advised in tlieir treatment. The risk of the drainage proving insufficient, and so causing diffuse inflammation and the bur- rowing of pus, is, in the experience of many, a stronger argument against their use. In most cases, however, the surgeon will be enabled to employ sutures without inducing harm. The most ample ju-ovision for drainage is essential, and to secure this it may be requisite to make a longitudinal incision at the