INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAM'S, ETC. 548 of l)listers over the joint, olier the best chance of relieving the patient, but the treatment is eininentl}' unsatisfactory. Dr. Goochvillie,^ of Xew York, has ingeniously proposed to produce extension betAveen the two surfaces of the teinporo-iuaxillary articulation by fitting blocks upon the molar teeth, and by then draAving up and fixing the chin; and he giA'es several cases in AA'hich a cure Avas thus brought about. The anchylosis resulting from articular infiammation may be fibrous or osseous, and the diagnosis can only be made when the patient is thoroughly under the effect of an ansesthetic. Fibrous adhesions may be broken l^y forcibly opening the jaAvs, but very great sub- secpient care Avill be necessary to prevent reunion, and it may be better to ])erform Esmarch’s operation of diA'ision of the bone in front of the angle. Dr. GoodAvillie^ has recorded two cases in whicli he succeeded in thus breaking adhesions Avith the best results. In cases of anchylosis of the temporo-maxillary joint, the operation of excising the condyle of the jaAV has been performed in a few instances. The first removal of the condyle was by Professor Humphry,^ of Cambridge, and Avas undertaken for chi’onic rheumatic arthritis. He exposed the con- dyle by a curved incision from the side of the orbit, across the zygoma to the ear, passing a little above the tempoi’o-maxillary articulation ; and by a second incision from the termination of the first, directly upAvard in front of the ear and across the zygoma again, avoiding the temporal artery. The fiap thus made was reflected, and the neck of the condyle cut through Avith a narroAV saAv. Dr. Bottini,^ in 1872, communicated to the Royal Academy of Medicine at Turin, the case of a lad of seA'enteen, Avho had fallen on his chin AA'hen seA'en years old; inability to open the mouth gradually set in, so that in a feAv months he AA-as quite unable to separate the jaAA's. Bottini opened the mouth forcibly during anaesthesia, and inserted a AA'edge. This hoAvever AA'as so troublesome to the patient that it Avas removed, and resection Avas deter- mined on. An incision Avas made on one side, and the head of the jaA\'-bone, after the periosteum had been separated, was removed with the chisel and hammer. This had no appreciable effect, and it Avas only after the operation had been repeated on the other side that the jaAv could be freely mo\'ed. In neither of these cases Avas there true s3mostosis, such as may be seen in a specimen of a negro’s head in Guj^’s Hospital Museum, and such as existed in a ease successfully treated by Dr. James Little,® of YeAv AMrk, in 1873. The patient AA'as nineteen years of age, and had some 3'ears before suffered from suppuration of the temporo-maxillaiy articulation, leading to anchylosis. Dr. Little made an incision along the loAver border of the jaAv, and turned up the masseter, Avhen the neck of the condyle Avas seen to be veiy much enlarged, and continuous Avith the temporal bone. A trephine half an inch in dia- meter Avas then applied, and a button of bone three-eighths of an inch in thick- ness AA'as removed. The portion of bone on each side of this opening Avas next cut through Avitli a chisel, and the neck of the condyle cut aAvaj' piece hy piece, so as"to leave no portion projecting from the temporal bone. The result Avas quite satisfactoiy. A similar operation, Imt performed ly^ a different method, Avas successfully undertaken by Dr. Robert Abbe,® of Rgav York, on a 1)oa’ of ten Avho had suffered from otitis media and suppuration of the joint seven }'ears before. A longitudinal incision AA'as made in front of the ear, and a transverse one, meet- 1 Archives of Medicine, vol. v. June 3, 1881. * Monthly Review of Dental Surgery, October, 1875. 8 Association Medical Journal, 185(5. British Medical Journal, August 31, 1872. 6 Transactions of New York State Medical Society. 1874. 6 New York Medical Journal, April, 1880.