PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 931 thoracic duct. The discharge of a milk-like fluid from a wound in the loin, especially if the wound were of the nature of a stab, or gunshot, would, as Benjamin Bell remarked, suggest this injury. But the secure position of the thoracic duct, not only in its short course below, Imt in its longer course above the diaphragm, makes an uncomplicated wound of this tube extremely improbable. Lying as it does between the aorta and vena cava, it is almost impossible to conceive of its being punctured or divided without one or both of its companion vessels being injured also; and in such a case death would occur before the symptoms due to the injury of the lymph-duct would have time to develop themselves. Wounds of the smaller hjmph-vessels must of a certainty occur whenever the mesentery, viscera, or pai’ietes even, are wounded; but such wounds heal cpiickly, as do those of the small arteries and veins. John Bell’s perusal of his namesake, Benjamin’s, very harmless suggestions as to the probable results of a wound of the “ receptaculum chyli,” inclined him to write some very uncharitable things,^ which, with the knowledge of those who lived after him, he would have left unsaid, as he would have recog- nized that Benjamin Bell was sometimes iviser than himself. Venetrating \Younds of the Bloodvessels of the Abdomen.—The bleeding which results from j)enetrating wounds proceeds from either (1) the vessels of the parietes; (2) the viscera, omentum, or mesenteries; or (3) tlie large blood- vessels, or their branches to the viscera or parietes. Wounds of the great vessels are, as a rule, fatal, the patients perishing before help can be }»ro- cured. The bleeding from such vessels as the epigastric, intercostal, lumbar, or circumflex iliac arteries, is by no means trivial or unimportant, and may be fatal if trifled with or mismanaged. The viscei’a, omenta, and mesenteries are so well supplied with vessels, that they can hardly be wounded without their vessels sutfering. Wlien any of the smaller vessels within the alxlominal cavity ai’e wounded, the pressure exerted by the abdominal parietes, and through them of the contained vis- cera, is often sutficient to control or check the hemorrhage. This pressure is, as remarked by Petit, a veritable com})ression which nature employs to sus})end or moderate the effusion. The rapidity and amount of hemorrhage depend, therefore, upon the size of the vessel wounded, and the degree of resistance to effusion exerted by the contiguous structures. If the wounded vessel be large, the force with which the blood tends to escape will probably be greater than the resistance ; if the force and the resistance nearly balance each other, it may happen that a slight extravasation will increase the resistance sufficiently to completely prevent further hemorrhage. tdgrnptonis.—^V’^hen wounds of large vessels prove quickly fatal, the blood descends into the pelvis, the belly swells, and the patient grows pale and pulseless, anxious in aspect, restless, and cold, then becomes suffused with clammy cold sweats, and, after several convidsive movements, dies. When the wounded vessel is uiuler a certain size, the hemorrhage is slower, ami some time elapses before the extravasation is considerable. After a time, a soft, dull fluctuating tumor may be felt in the lower part of the abdomen ; the pressure made by the effused blood on tlie urinary bladder excites distressing efforts to micturate, ami that on the hu’ge bowel leads to constipation and tenesmus. At a later period, the peritoneum becomes, perhaps, inflamed, the pulse grows feeble, and the alarming symptoms above described usher in death; or peritonitis may be escaped, and by sloiv degrees, if the hemorrhage ceases, the effused blood is absorbed and convalescence is established. Op. cit., lid ed., p. 3(!(i, et scij.