241 CATARACT. sight” for reading, they see worse in the distance. Concave glasses then help them to see remote objects better, as they do with any mjmpe. In many or most of these cases, there will be found incipient cataract, and, not infre- quently, floating corpuscles in the vitreous, showing disturbed nutrition from choroidal irritation. Congenital Cataract.—So-called cases of congenital cataract doubtless often begin very soon after birth, and before the infant shows any indication of how it sees. Congenital, or early infantile cataract, may be partial or complete. The partial embraces two varieties, the polar and the lamellar. The polar is nearly always at the anterior pole of the lens. There is seen a small, round, whitish opacity, in or near the centre of, and just within, tlie anterior capsule. When the anterior ])olar cataract is large and prominent, projecting beyond the plane of the pupil into the anterior chamber, it is called pyramidal. It was once thought that these opacities were deposits on the outer surface of the ca])sule. But the whole mass is ivithin the capsule, which is pushed forwards. The pathology of these cases is simple: they can gener- ally be traced to tlie same cause, that is, perforation of the cornea, tliough in very rare instances they cannot be explained in this way. In ophthalmia neona- torum, central and limited ulceration and perforation of one or both corneae, take place. The aqueous escaping, the anterior capsule comes against the cornea, and is agglutinated to it. When the aqueous is again retained, and the chamber re-established, the two surfaces are separated and the adhesion severed. By some means this temporary union causes pi’oliferation oi' tlie iutracapsular cells, and a limited and stationary opacity. Most frequently a small corneal opacity may be detected, indicating the seat of the perforation, and oblique illumination will nearly always reveal it. Of course, the history of purulent conjunctivitis will help to clear up the diagnosis. Lamellar cataract (Sehichtstaar, of Jaeger) begins in very early life, and presents such marked characteristics that it can hardly be mistaken. It corresponds to the axis of the lens, and hence centres with the pupil. The sharply defined, circular opacity of the lens may be less or larger than the average size of the pupil. It has a dull-grayish look, and by a careless exami- nation might be supposed to involve the entire lens. Dilatation of the pupil, and oblique illumination, will show at once what it is. While the opacity is nearly or quite circular, and sharply deflne<l, the edge is apt to be a little ragged or serrated. The opaque spot is back of the capsule, between it and the nucleus. The lamiiue next the capsule, the nucleus, and the entire periphery of the lens, are all clear. Rarely there is seen a corresponding opacity behind the nucleus, and of course deeper seated in the lens. Optlial- moscopically, the dilated pupil is uniformly red, except the central opacity, which has a reddish-brown aj)pearance, the centre letting more light tbi-ough and looking redder. In the school period, such patients are often near-sighted, perhaps from the constant haliit of holding the book close and straining the accommodation. Lamellar cataract, after reaching a certain point, becomes stationary, and generally remains so during life. Rarely its progress is re- newed, leading to total cataract. The ]>atient is usually brought for advice on account of supposed near-sightedness, because he holds small objects unduly close, to see them. Tie brings the book near his eyes because he does not see well, and not because he is myopic. Still, he often becomes so, as proved by the usual tests. Either beginning in utero, or very soon after birth, a soft, milky-white, total cataract is sometimes seen, which usually involves both eyes. It has a tendency to become liquid, Iti later years, and may undergo j)artial or com- plete absorption, leaving only a dense, opaque capsular membrane. If neg- VOL. V.—16