INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 194 On April 15, 1877, the patient again called on me at my office. There was then great protrusion of the eyeball, with aggravation of all the other symptoms, and a tumor could now be felt behind the globe. Enucleation of the eyeball was resorted to, as the vision was then lost from optic atrophy. The tumor was readily removed. It was firm and fibrous in character, and the size of a small pullet’s egg. It was situated between the optic nerve and the inner wall of the orbit, but was not firmly connected with either. The mistaken diagnosis in this case was perhaps excusable. It was certainly instructive. Tlie recovery was permanent, and the patient wears an artificial eye. This indicates that the tumor was a benignant growth. The third illustrative case has furnished the subject of Fig. 857 Mrs. B., 62years old, applied for advice in November, 1881. She said that the disease had begun three years before, and assigned it to the sting of a wasp. Soon after, lier friends noticed a slight prominence of the eye; she felt some discomfort when exposed to the wind and bright light, and, at times, aching pain. Nine months subsequently, the exophthalmus having increased and the pain being constant, she consulted a physician, who discovered a swelling at the outer, inferior margin of the orbit. For the next two years all the symptoms grew worse, till she was no longer able to close the lids without great effort. Tliere was no history of injury, nor of any hereditary predisposition. Her health had never been robust, and yet she had, in her whole life, not suffered from any serious illness. At the date above given, the exophthalmus was enormous, the displacement being inwards and upwards ; the cornea was clear and the pupil active, and she counted fingers at twelve feet; the oph- thalmoscope revealed partial atrophy of the disk, with marks of neuritis ; the margins of the papilla were ill-defined and irregular, and the veins tortuous. An elastic growth, filling the orbit, and projecting in a nodular form at the lower, outer part, could be distinctly felt. The patient was in constant dread that the eye would “ come out of her head,” and had to push it back often with her hand. When ready to enucleate, I pushed the lids back beyond the eyeball, where they closed in tightly, so that no speculum was needed. The removal of the eye was extremely easy, and I then passed my finger back and pulled out the tumor. It was moulded to the general form of the cavity, but was more prominent outwards. Dr. Robert Sattler’s microscopic examination revealed a fibro-sarcoma. There has been no return, and the patient wears an artificial eye comfortably. If the tumor is seated hackwardlj and inwardly, the eye Avill he pushed for- wards and outwards. The displacement is ahvays in the opposite direction to the seat of the growth. When far forwards, the eye is displaced laterally, and hut little increased in prominence. Double vision is a common cause of worriment, when the dislodgment is indirect and considerable. If not directly invaded by the morbid growth, the rotatory muscles preserve their