949 KETRO-PERITOXEAL EXTRAVASATION AND SUPPURATION. On the contrary, there are cases in which it has been shown that urea has been in excess. Mr. Bennett May^ has put on record an interesting case in which the effused urine was exactly like that passed by the urethra ; and Prof. IMarshalF has quite recently published one in which the fluid withdrawn from the loin contained 5.5 per cent, of urea, Avhich is greatly in excess of that in healthy urine. There is, however, good ground for believing that urine, when not putrid or purulent, and if not extravasated in very lai’ge quantity, does not necessarily excite suppuration or sloughing of the tissues outside the peritoneum ; nor when in its cavity does inflammation of tlie peritoneum always arise. Recorded cases of injured kidney show that the urine some- times escapes very slowly into the tissues around ; and days or weeks, or even months, may elapse before there is any local swelling suflicient to suggest extravasation, and without hrematuria or other urinary symptom to indicate renal lesion. After nipture of the bladder, urine diffuses itself more or less widely in the pelvis, or passes upwards into the iliac fossa, or spreads along the front wall of the abdomen—from which the peritoneum may havelieen largely detached by the injury—nearly as high as the umbilicus, or may penetrate along the course of the obturator vessels into the thigh. Acute peritonitis, too, gener- ally occurs, and leads to death in a few days; but pus may form and be dis- charged into the peritoneal cavity, the bladder, or the rectum, or tlirougli fistu- lous openings in the abdominal wall. I have had two cases of recovery after rupture of tlie bladder, in one of which the abscess burst into the bladder,^ and in the other into the rectum.^ Feces escape into the retro-peritoneal tissues from the ascending and descending colon, the ciucum, the sigmoid flexure, the rectum, and the second and third parts of the duodenum, as the consequence either of injury, or ot ulceration from disease. Feces may also esca^ie from any other portion of the bowel, if adhesions have fixed it to the parietal peritoneum, through Avhich the intestinal contents will then pass, should perforation occur. Cancerous, tuberculous, dysenteric, and other forms of ulcer; simple in- flammation followed by ulceration; obstruction followed liy ulceration or sloughing; and abscess operung into the bowel, are the common causes of fecal extravasation. As in the iseliio-rectal fossa, so in the loin, groin, pelvis, or back, an abscess may form in the loose cellular tissue and open into the intes- tine, and subsequently fecal matter may be extravasated into the abscess. Sub-[)arietal ruptures and penetrating wounds are also occasional causes. In long-standing cases a fecal abscess may open externally, as well as into the intestine. The following case, which was under the care of Dr. Coup- land, in the Middlesex Hospital, is a good example:— Iv. .T., aged forty-five, liad in tlie left lumbar region a fistulous opening, 14 inches in length, and communicating directly with a fecal abscess. The liver was adllierent to the diaphragm by numerous firm, fibrous bands, and the left edge of the left lobe was firmly adherent to the stomach, spleen, and abdominal wall. The stomach contained fecal matter, and 5^ inches from the pylorus there was a perforation by which it com- municated with a large fecal abscess in the left hy[iochondrium and lumbar region, behind the peritoneum. Tlie colon was normal iqi to 2^ inches below the sjilcnic flexure, where its outer wall was wanting, and the bowel thereby opened into the fecal abscess. A fistulous track, as large as the forefinger, led from the aliscess downwards behind the peritoneum to the pelvis, where an ulcer of the rectum had perforated and caused the initial extravasation of fecal matter, which had thus spread in an upward direction. * Urit. Med. .lonnial, Jan. 20, 1883. 2 Lancet, May 20, 1883, and Myd.-Chir. Trans., vol. Ixvi. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, Nov. 1870, p. 603. 4 Lancet, July, 1883, p. 14.