310 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. Hard-rubber, curved nose- piece. Full into Ills left nasal orifice, using, if necessary, liis left Land to aid him in placing the instrument in its proper position on the floor of the nasal passage. As soon as he has accomplished this, he Fig. 890. Fig. 891. should at once compress the nostrils firmly over the rubber nose-piece, and give the patient the signal to swallow the water. The act of compressing the bag and forcing air into the nasal cavi- ties should follow the signal almost in- Stanton With very deaf persons, a nod of the head or a nudge with the knee will serve as a signal; but in the majority of cases it is customary to give the command, Swallow! With children, it is often sutfi- cient to simply instruct the child to keep the mouth tightly closed, or to inflate the cheeks, at the moment when we are I'eady to compress the rubber bag. These de- vices, however, and some others which lack of space will not permit me to de- scrilie, are inferior to the original Polit- zer’s method in one important particular, viz., they do not take advantage of the great assistance atibrded by the act of swallowing in separating the lips of the tubal orifices, and thus rendering the tubes themselves more easily pervious to air, at least for the brief moment of time consumed by this act. In this connection I should call attention to the fact that liarm may sometimes be done to the ear by the careless or injudicious use of Politzer’s method of in- flation. The operation should never be resorted to until after both drum-membranes have been examined. The conditions which contraindicate sudden and forci- ble inflation of the middle ears, are these: a highly sunken drum-membrane, which may possibly also be adherent to some of the deeper parts of the middle ear; a decidedly atro- phied drum-membrane, or one in which a very thin cicatrix exists; ami, finally, an acutely inflamed drum-membrane. In all of these conditions it is best to employ inflation, at first, in a cautious manner, or even—as, for instance, when there is active inflammation of the middle ear—to abstain entirely from using it. The third method of inflating the middle ear is that by means of the Eustachian catheter. When this instrument is used, the air passes through the Eustachian tube into the middle ear in a continuous current of one or two seconds’ duration. This steadiness and long duration of the current afford the physician ample opportunity to listen deliberately to the character of the sounds which it ])roduces. For purposes of diagnosis, therefore, this method possesses a decided superiority over the other two. The instruments required for the operation of catheterizing the Eustachian tube, are a suitable catheter, either of hard rubber or of metal, an ausculta- tion-tube, and a soft-rubber bag with a nozzle that can be applied to the mouth of the catheter in such a manner as to close it. A well-made hard- rubber catheter is an excellent instrument, and leaves very little to be desired. It is a very diflicult matter, however, to obtain such a well-made catheter. Politzer’s apparatus.