314 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. force in getting the instrument into its proper position, might lacerate the mucous membrane at the month of the tube, and so open the way for the production of an emphysema of even wide extent. Diseases of the Middle Ear. jSTon-suppurative Inflammation or Simple Catarrh. — By the term “ catarrh of the middle ear,” as used in this article, and very generally by American surgeons, is meant a type of inflammation of the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube, tympanum, and communicating pneumatic spaces, which is characterized by redness, swelling, and increased secretion of the parts, and which stops short of ulceration and perforation of the membrana tympani. IChen the aflection is of recent date, and subsides in the course of a few days or Aveeks, we speak of it as an “ acute catarrh of the middle ear” {otitis media catarrhalis acuta). When the history giA'eii by the patient shoAvs that the pathological process has been going on for months, and perhaps even years, Ave may properly designate the affection as a “ chronic catarrh of the middle ear” {otitis media catarrhalis chronica). An acute catarrh of the middle ear may manifest itself under different forms. For example, the inflammation may restrict itself almost entirely to the Eustachian tube, and the expression “ Eustachian catarrh” is then A-eiy often employed. In comparatively rare instances, the inflammation displays a mild character in its course along the Eustachian and tympanic portions of the mucous membrane, and then spends its greatest force upon the mastoid portions ; or the upper portions of the tympanic cavity may show evidences of an actiA-e inflammation of the mucous membrane, while the loAA^er portions remain in almost a normal state. In fact, maiy^ cases of seA^ere purulent inflammation of the middle ear begin, as far as I have been able to judge from simple inspection of the membrana tympani with reflected light, as a localized inflammation of the upper portions of the tympanic caAuty. The prevailing type of an acute catarrh of the middle ear, hoAvever, is charac- terized by a more uniformly distributed congestion and SAA^elling of the drum- membrane, and by more dr less marked closure of the Eustachian tube. Sometimes both ears are equally affected, but as a rule the inflammation is much more active on one side than on the other. An inflammation of the naso-pharyngeal mucous membrane almost iiiA’ari- bly ])recedes this A^ariety of aural disease, and the naso-pharyngeal inflam- mation in its turn OAves its origin to exposure to cold, or to the speciflc influence of the poison of smallpox, scarlet fever, or measles. In a few cases, the ear disease owes its origin directly to the entrance of an irritating fluid into the tympanic cavity, by Avay of the Eustachian tube, or to the irritation caused by the presence of too hot or too cold fluid in the external auditory canal. The syruptoms are Amrious, and all are not ahvays present in one and the same case, or in one and the same ear. Pain in the affected region is the most prominent symptom. It is rarely severe, and in many cases is entirely absent. Pulsation is not often felt by the patient. If present, it usually indicates that an exudation of fluid has taken place in the tympanic caA'ity, or that the Eustachian tube is impervious to air. Subjective noises of vary- ing intensity and character, and resonance of one’s OAvn voice in speaking, are common symptoms. More or less marked diminution ot the hearing is ahvays present. A sensation of fulness or Aveight in the affected ear, is sometimes mentioned as a prominent symptom. Humbness ot the affected