ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 1025 the pus following the course of the ilio-psoas temlon and Inu-sting tlirough the thin part of the capsular ligament, at the spot where those muscles cross the articulation. I have amputated the liml) at the hip-joint in a lad of seventeen, for necrosis of the acetahulum, which apparently had an iliac origin; suppuration within the pelvis had for a long time preceded hip-joint disease, and the abscess, after opening above Poupart’s ligament, extended around the great sciatic notch to the back of the hip, and then into tlie hip- joint, which became completely disorganized. The case ended fatally, and the })Ost-mortem examination disclosed extensive necrosis of the inner surface of the expanded wing of the ilium, and what remained of the iliaens mnscle was quite black and softened. In other instances, the pus having hurst through the iliac fascia, and extended below the brim of the true pelvis, has passed out through the great sacro-sciatic notch into the gluteal fossa, where it has burrowed beneath the gluteal muscles. I have opened such an abscess in more than one place in the Imttock, as well as in the upjicr paid of the thigh, pus being sul)sequently discharged into the bladder as well, and the flow being kept up in spite of free drainage. Suppuration may, 1 l)elieve, extend from a diseased hi}i-joint by the same route into the pelvis, but it is then sub- peritoneal in character, not suh-aiioneurotic. It is Avell known that hip- disease often extends through the floor of the acetahidum to the })elvis. In 1881, a case was under the care of my colleague, j\Ir. (leo. Lawson, of su])-aponeurotic iliac abscess on both sides; it was not of verteiiral or sacral origin, but the exact cause coidd not he made out at the autopsy. In this case of Mr. Lawson’s, tlie abscess of one side did not communicate with that of the otlier. On the left side, the al)scess had broken into the sheath of the psoas, and the pus had descended below Pou])art’s ligament; on the right side, the abscess had ulcerated through the sheath of the iliacus and opened above the crest of the ilium in two places—in the right groin, and over the right side of the middle sacral vertebra. The case shows that an iliac abscess may become an ilio-psoas abscess, and therefore that the lattei’ may occur without any assignable cause such as caries of the vertebrm. Ilio-pelvic abscesses have been known to evacuate tliemselves tlirough the uterus and vagina, but much more frequently they are discharged through the rectunj, sigmoid flexure, or bladder. Sometimes they have proved rapidly fatal by bursting into the general peritoneal cavity. Occasionally the sub-aponeurotic abscesses result in the more or less com- plete destruction of the iliacus muscle and the periosteum of the iliac fossa, as in the case just referi’ed to. The psoas and (puulratus lumhoiaun muscles sometimes share in the destrnction. The iliac vessels and the anterior crural nerve, external cutaneous, obturator, and other branches of tlie lumbar }»lexus, as they pass across the pelvis are affected by contact with the pus, or suffer compression owing to the indurated and contracted comlition of the inflamed tissues which surround them. CaHses.—Ilio-pelvic i)hlegmons are perhaps most commonly seen as sequelae oi’labor, and it is sup[)Osed that they are most frequent among })riniipar;e. They occur, however, from several other causes, such as injury, peilosteal and osteal inflammation, laceration of muscular fibre, and extravasation of blood. In one case, already referred to under the heading of ne}iatic Abscess, suppuration was started in the pelvic cellulai- tissue by a lithotomy ivound; the pus took the course of tlie spei'inatic cord, and burrowed along the inguinal canal to the scrotum, at the iqiper jiart of Avhich it Avas eALacuated through an incision. A^elpeau saAv such a phlegmon folloAv inflammation of the bursa beneath the ilio-psoas tendon on the brim of the peL’is; and in another instance a suppurating bubo excited abscess in the left iliac fossa by VOL. V.—C")