INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 588 Velpeau,' may be of use, but tliese are in the majority of cases more thau doubtful remedies, unless it be in the later stages, to remove the clirouic hardness wbicli may remain. AVlien pus has formed, the sooner it is evacu- ated the better. Its presence can only do harm, and it is best got rid of by such a free incision as may, if possible, obviate the need of repeating the operation or of using drainage tubes, or of any squeezing or handling after- wards. The abscess should be opened antiseptically, and its drainage care- fully attended to. Capillary punctures can only be of use in the case of very limited collections. Their supposed advantage is the avoidance of a sear, but this is frequently illusory, and as a rule they are very unsatisfactory, and give much more annoyance by the necessity for their repetition than by any good which they can produce. The use of the aspirator, hypo- dermic syringe, trocar, or grooved needle, vaccination, and the introduction of setons of linen, metal, catgut, or other threads, capillary tubes, etc., are all inetfective, and are apt to cause greater subsequent evils than a free, clean cut. l)ee[) abscesses require careful managenient. The plan of opening them recommended by ISfr. Hilton is a great improvement on the ordinary method. After incising the superficial and less important parts, a blunt director is carefully pushed down through the tissues, separating without cutting them ; when the pus is seen to well up along the groove, a pair of dressing forceps is pushed in with the blades closed, and when within the cavity these are expanded, so as to enlarge the opening to the necessary extent. In incising the structures, if the knife be used, they should be carefully and slowly divided layer by layer, so as to allow of their being recognized as we pro- ceed. Advantage should be taken of all natural shadings in the skin so as to reduce subsequent scarring to the last degree. Of course these abscesses should be opened at their most dependent part, and sufficiently freely to pro- vide for drainage. Chassaignac^ and more recently Trofessor Marshall have shown how easily and safely deep abscesses at the side of the neck, below the deep fascia, may be evacuated by an incision in the middle line in front of the trachea, and how far back we can seek for the pus by keeping close to the windpipe. Incisions may also be made behind the sterno-mastoid, as well as along the base of the lower jaw-bone. The cavity of large abscesses may have to be w'ashed out with a weak solution of carbolic acid or iodine, but great care hiust be taken not to force ain’ of the fluid so used info fhe cellular tissue of the neck. Sinuses too may require to be split up in order to pro- mote their closure, and indurations may need to be got rid of by blisters, colorless iodine, or mercurial embrocations, while constitutional treatment will also in most cases be required to strengthen the system and improve the nutrient qualities of the blood. Fistul.e in the Heck. Cervical fistulie may be either congenital or acquired. 1. Congenital fistula;, called “ branchial” by Ileusinger, were errone- ously called tracheal fistulpe by Dzondi, wbo first drew attention to them in 1829. Aschersoid first ascribed the afiection to its true cause, viz., an arrest of development in the closure of the pharyngeal fissure or cleft. The closure of the branchial arches, which terminates about the end of the second month of foefal life, will, as is well known, if arrested, give rise to various con- ' Gaz. Med., Avril, 1871. * Gaz. des Hopit. 1843. 3 De fistulis Colli. 1832.