148 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. (1) One of tlie most conspicuous features in osteitis deformans is this change in the skull, and th.ere is no doubt that several specimens in museums ascribed to syphilis, to the effects of blows, and to compensatory hypertrophy after wasting of the brain, are examples really of this remarkable disease.* (2) In cases of cranio-malacia the skull-hones become greatly and evenly thickened, the sutures are obliterated, and the texture of the bone is light, spongy, and very brittle.^ (3) In the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons are several skulls of young lions and monkeys, that have died in confinement of a disease resem- bling rickets in man, and that without doubt depended upon improper diet. In these skulls, the entire vault is evenly and greatly thickened, the sutures are obliterated, and the base is not involved. The bone is very uniform on section, and is very finely porous. What is the exact nature of the affection it is impossible to say; and, indeed, the whole pathology of so-called osteo- porosis of the skull is in a condition of extreme obscurity. 4. In the condition known as limited eccentric hyperostosis, the skull is thickened and deformed by the growth of irregular liossy masses of rough and i)oroiis bone. These masses apqjear to be deposited upon the outer, or sometimes upon the inner, table of the skull, but an examination of the bone in section shows that its whole structure is involved in the disease. The disease spreads; the bones of the face and lower jaw are involved. The malar bones are especially apt to be affected, and may be converted into bossy masses as large as oranges?. As regards the skull, the frontal and parietal bones are those most severely involved, Avhile the occiiiital bone is, as a rule, but slightly affected, and may remain absolutely exempt from the disease. The deformity l)roduced by the disease is extreme and horrible; the cavities of the skull, nose, orbit, and mouth are encroached upon. The cranial foramina are nar- rowed, anil may even become closed. I’aralysis of the nerves at the base of the sdvull is therefore not uncommon, and the patient usually dies, simply Avorn out by the effects of the disease. The morbid change is usually very symmetrical. The bone is veiy A'ascular, and is rendered porous by the entrance of many bloodA^essels. VirchoAv considered this disease to be akin to elephan- tiasis of the soft parts, and gave to it the name of leontiasis ossium. It occurs most usually in the ^mung, appearing at or before puberty, and lasts for years. In a A^ery fully reported case, recorded by Dr. Murchison, the disease had ex- isted for tAventy years.® It is commonly attended by more or less continuous headache, by neuralgia, spasms, or limited palsies. Like the other forms of skull hypertrophy, it is unaffected by any treatment. Atrophy of the Skull.^—Atrophy of the skull, or analosis cranii, appears under A'arious forms. Considered generally, it is an affection of old age, being quite rare before the age of 50. It avouIcI appear to be most common in the female sex, for out of 28 cases mentioned by M. Gayraud,* the patients in 22 instances Avere Avomen. This subject has been A^ery fully investigated by M. Sauvage,® AAdio asserts that he met Avith tAventy-eight cases of atrophy in examining tAvo thousand adult skulls. This proportion, hoAvever, is probably too high. The condition and extent of the atrophied parts vary considerably. In 1 See Sir James Paget’s paper, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlii. p. 37. 1877 ; also case reported Ly author in Trans. Path. Soc., 1881. * A good specimen will be found in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons (Mr. Solly’s case). 3 Trans. Path. Soc., vol. xvii. p. 243. 1866. ^ Diet. Encyclop. des Sciences Med., Art. Crane. Paris, 1879. s Recherches sur I’fitat senile du Crane. Paris, 1869.