HER>JIA. llGO *Sfeps of the Subcutaneous-Wire Operation for the Badical Cure of Beducible Crural Hernia.—The patient being placed npon the table and aneesthetized, with the leg of the atfected side slightly flexed and tnrned a little outwards, the parts should be shaved and purified with 1-20 carbolic solution, in which the instruments and wire should also be laid. The hernia should be reduced and the finger passed into the criu’al ring to make sure that nothing is irre- ducible. An oblique incision, three-quaiders of an inch or an inch long, is made through the integuments and fascia covering the sac of the hernia, which is then invaginated upon the finger into the crural ring. The Anger is to be pressed firml}^ outwards against the femoral vein, so as to empty it and push it out of the way of danger; the pulsation of the femoral artery will be plainly felt in doing so. The same needle as that used in the like operation for inguinal hernia, but rather smaller in ordinary cases, is now passed along the finger till its point reaches Poupaid’s ligament, through which it is to be passed at a point opposite the inner margin of the femoral v^ein. When the point raises the skin, this is to be draun outwards for about an inch before the point of the needle is pushed through. The wii’e (about fourteen inches long, and bent at each end into a hook) is next hooked on to the needle’s eye, drawn down into the incision, and then de- tached. The finger must now again be invaginated and pressed fli’mly against the edge of Gimbernat’s and Iley’s ligaments ; the needle is then to be pushed through the fascia lata, which covers the adductor and pectineus muscles, and then carried along through Gimbernat’s ligament and the in- sertion of Poupart’s ligament into the pubic spine. (See Fig. 1147.) The skin is now to be drawn inwards until the point of the needle appears at the upper puncture, through Avhich the wire already passes. It is then pushed through the same puncture, and the hook at the other end of the wire at- tached''and drawn down through the incision. When the sac is large, it may now be transfixed or wlioh}’ in- clnded by the needle being passed across or behind it, pinching it up between tlie Anger and tliumb. The two ends of the wire are then to be twisted twice around each other, and the upper loop pulled so as to im’agi- nate the sac into the ring (Fig. 1148), and then twisted down into the punc- ture, as in the inguinal operation. The ends of the wire are then to be cut off to a convenient length, bent over towards the bent-down loop, passed through the loop, and fast- ened by a bend. A pad of carbolized lint is then passed under the loop and made to cover the wound (see Fig. 1148, B); over this is placed a little oiled silk, and then a spica bandage, with a little carbolized tow to catch any drainage that may occur. The last should be so placed as to be removable and replaceable vdthout disturbing the pad of lint. The patient shonld be placed in bed, with the upper part of the trunk raised and the knees bent over a bolster. The Avire may remain a Fig. 1147. Snbcntaneous-wire operation for crnral hernia.