1175 TRUSSES. Trusses for Iftguinal Hernia.—One of the first essentials in the truss-pad for this kind of rupture, is that it should not press upon, or interfere with, the circulation or other functions of the spermatic cord. Hot uncommonly the cord becomes jammed by the downward pressure of the truss-pad upon the crest of the X'l^ihic bone below. The consequences are pain and uneasiness along the cord and in the testicle. The latter slowly enlarges if the pressure be continued ; effusion takes place in the tunica vaginalis, and a hydrocele or a hydro-sarcocele is gradually formed. In otlier cases, the pressure upon the spermatic veins of the cord gives rise to varicocele. This condition is some- times the result of the continual pressure of a nipture alone, but more fre- quently it results from the combined pressure of the rupture and of an imper- fectly adjusted truss. It is more likely to occur in cases where a radical cure is attempted by means of firm truss-|»ressure with a hard pad. In order to avoid the two dangers of increasing the size of the hernial aperture by using a too conical pad, and of making undue pressure upon the cord, I devised, some years ago, a horseshoe-shaped truss-pad for tlie treat- ment of inguinal rupture. In cases where a radical cure without operation is sought, the pad is made of vulcanite or of compressed gun-cotton. Both these substances have a firm, perfectly smooth, and uuirritating surface, which is capable of being washed clean every morning, and of being thus freed from the irritating and acrid accumulation of the decomposing secre- tions of the skin, which give such an unpleasant odor, and produce such an irritating effect upon the skin, in the leather-covered trusses in common use. 'When perfectly cleansed, and dusted with powdered starch, these pads can he very comfortably worn when properly adjusted. The pad for oblique inguinal hernia is made with a fiat surface, rounded otf smoothly at the borders, and of the shape of an oblique horseshoe, with the outer or inferior limb shorter than the inner or superior. A cleft about three- fourtlis of an inch long and half an inch wide, intervenes between the ends of the horseshoe (Fig. 1156) ; this is for the lodgment of the spermatic cord as it Fig. 1156. Horseshoe-pacI for inguinal hernia. lies upon the groove of the outer pillar of the superficial riug, external to the Y>ubic spine, which is also placed, when the truss is properly fitted, in the cleft or groove. The mobility of the healthy spermatic cord is so great, tliat, when the pad is placed upon the inguinal canal so that the cleft is o^iposite to the pubic spine, looking downwards and inwards towards the testicle, tlie cord slips into its proper place under the pressure of the ends of the pad, while tlie upper, rounded border presses upon and prevents protrusion through the deep or internal abdominal ring. The spring is fixed by a screw upon the geometric centre of the oval pad, so as to l;»ear equally in its pressure upon the deep and superficial rings. It is held liy a screw, which, w'hen slackened, allows of