INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 196 polish, micl, when being sawed, emitted the peculiar smell of ivory. Its general form (supplying the portion that was chipped off by the nippers) was round, similar to a wal- nut, but nodulated and traversed by a deep fissure, which passed around it, between the pedicle and the convex portion that pressed against the eye. Its weight was 3 drachms, and with the portion that was chipped away would have been, perhaps, half a drachm more. No vessels were to be seen on its surface or in its structure. The patient returned about a year after the operation to procure an artificial eye, and there was no trace whatever of any reproduction of the tumor. These operations are tihvays difficult and tedious, and often only partially successful. If possible, the e^’e should he preserved in all operations in the orbit. But sometimes enucleation is a necessity; and it always greatly facilitates the removal of an orbital tumor. If sight is gone, the sacrifice does not seem very great. Any mutilation, when necessary to save life, is justifiable. Very great care is needed to save the ej’e from injury, with its muscles and optic nerve. Sometimes one or more of the muscles must he cut, and the hall luxated by the finger, to secure access to the tumor. "When the operation is completed, the divided muscles may he stitched, and de- formity thus prevented. Cysts originating in the ethmoid hone, and sometimes in the orbit, can only he treated surgically. The}" are filled with colored, ropy fluid, mixed with firm flakes. Tree incision, syringing out the contents, and the use of irritating injections will generally succeed in efieeting a cure. The following case is typical of this class of tumors:— A stout, liealthy man from the country consulted me for a very high degree of exoph- tlialmus of the right eye. A small scar just above the orbit was the result of a severe blow received when a boy. Besides this no other injury Could be recalled. The protrusion was so great that the eyelids could only be closed by an effort. He dated the commence- ment of this symptom back only six months. The luxation was forwards, downwards, and inwards. A fluctuating tumor was felt between the ball and the upper and outer part of the orbit. I elevated the lid, and thrust a trocar through the cul de sac of the conjunctiva in the direction of the tumor. About an ounce and a half of ropy, slightly reddish fluid escaped. The ball sank back almost to its natural position at once. On his return in two weeks, a re-accumulation had taken place, but much less in quantity. A similar puncture was made with the same result as before. A few weeks later I saw him again. The exophthalmus was as marked as on the first visit. I then made a free incision, over an inch long, through the skin, parallel with the margin of the orbit, and opened the cyst extensively. After the escape of the contents, the sac was syringed with water, when three or four masses of coagula, each nearly as large as the little finger, were washed out. By examination with the finger the cyst was found to be very large, extending to the apex of the socket. As much as possible of the wall of the cyst was removed with scissoi’s. For several weeks the cavity was daily washed out with water, and the incision kept open by a tent. Finally, the tent was left out, the wound closed, and the patient was well for about a year. The remaining exo[)lithalmus was sliglit; the vision, at first much impaired, improved till he could read No. 8 of Jaeger’s tests. He came back a year after with a decided return, which had appeared within two weeks. There was no pain, redness, or soreness on pressure. I incised the cyst freely as before, and about an ounce of pus, mixed with the same glairy, ropy fluid escaped. A probe detected denuded, but smooth, bone at the apex of the cavity. The wound was kept open as before, tbe cavity washed out daily with water, and injected with pure tincture of iodine. This was done for a week. The tent was continued for ten days afterwards, and at that time the bare bone was covered, and the cavity much reduced in size. Still, a little glairy fluid escaped each day with the pus. I then injected for three times, every second day, a 60-grain solution of nitrate of silver. In a week after that treatment I found the cavity very much smaller, and bleeding readily ndien touched witli the probe. I then injected the iodine for three successive days. The tent was used for several weeks till the cavity was permanently obliterated, so that nothing was seen but an indrawn cicatrix.