413 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NASAL PASSAGES. probably with pbospbatic deposits, keeping np a constant irritation, muco- purulent discharge, and offensive smell, and not very rarely being mistaken for carious bone, the result of struma or syphilis. Two such instances have come under my observation. In one, the foreign body, a shoe button, thickly covered with calcareous matter, liad lam undisturbed for some eighteen years, having been introduced by the patient when a child, a fact distinctly remembered when its presence was demonstrated. In the second, a bean, likewise encrusted, was removed after a sojourn of some fifteen years. In both cases, all the symptoms of fetid catarrh were present. The presence of a foreign body had been demonstrated, and, through the supposition that this was necrosed bone, both patients had been for some time under auti- syphilitic treatment. Xo attempt at the removal of the foreign body had been made in either instance. The symptoms caused by the presence of a foreign body within the nose, vary naturally according to the duration of its stay, as well as upon its irri- tating or non-irritating nature and form. If the latter be sliarp, irregular, or pointed in character, considerable inflammatory reaction will follow its entrance into, and impingement upon, the nasal mucous membrane, while a smooth, rounded body, on the contrary, will give rise to little or no local disturbance. As a rule, the symptoms in recent cases are simply those of an ordinary chronic coryza, with abundant purulentwlischarge, and the results of the occlusion of a nasal passage. Should, liowever, the foreign body be of such a nature that it imbibes moisture from the nasal walls, and swells within the bony inclosure in which it lies, to these symptoms must lie added those due to the pressure and tension that it causes, viz., pam, severe head- ache, and distortion of the nose. Should its sq]ourn be one of months or years, all the sym})toms of a fetid catarrh will probably be developed, as in the instances above reported ; and m cases where the foreign body is sharp and irregular, ulceration of the mucous membrane at its point of lodgment, with bloody discharge at times, and increased pain, will be the rule, and will still further complicate the existing conditions. The dinynosis of a foreign bod}’ within the nostril is greatly assisted by the statement of the patient, if this can be obtained ; in default of it, it must rest upon the results of inspection and palpation. The foreign liody being usually obscured by a thick coating of mucus, a thorough washing out of the affected nostril will be found desirable as a preliminary to the use of the probe Much valuable information may thus be obtained as to its nature, form, and method of lodgment. The ]>robe, carefully used, establishes the fact of its existence. It can be but confounded with one condition, viz., necrosed bone. The mobility of the object, the character of its surface, and the peculiar sensation conveyed to the linger by the probe on touching it, will always serve to differentiate the substances. It is hardly necessary to add, that m d,efault of a clear clinical history of the presence of a foreign body, a careful examination should be instituted in every case of offensive discharge from the nares, attended by sjuiiptoms of occlusion, both by an- terior insjiection and liy the use of the rhmoscopic mirror. The treatment of a foreign body within the nares lies in its removal at as early a date as possible after its entrance. To do this will often tax the inven- tive ingenuity of the surgeon. Small, loose bodies may sometimes be quickly expelled by exciting sneezing in the patient; lilowmg strongly into the un- atfected nostril, is also said to expel the offending substance from tbe other King gives an instance of the expulsion of a cherry-stone from the nose during the action of an emetic, the mouth being beld closed at the moment of emesis. Success may be obtained by tbe injection of a powerful stream of water through the nares, either anteriorly, liy means of a large syringe held to the