APXCEA. 789 obstruction in the access of atmospheric air to the lungs, and consequent tailure in arteriali^ation of the blood. The apnoea may be produced by smothering, throttling, hanging, or drowning; by exposure to mephitic gases, vapors, or fumes; by mechanical occlusion of the air-passage by a foreign body, a neoplasm, or a pathological product; by mechanical compression of the larger air-passages, of the thorax, or of the lungs; by etfusion into the air- cells ; by collapse of the air-cells; or by sj>asm of the glottis. In many in- stances, death, from these causes, is not by apnoea simply, but sometimes by injury to the spinal cord in addition—as in hanging—or by apoplexy from compression of the jugular veins. In some, as when caused by inhalations of chlorine, chloroform, sulphuretted hydrogen, or carbonic oxide, it is more death by a direct poisoning than by mere deprivation of oxygen. Other causes of apnoea are neurotic, such as paralysis of the respiratory centre in disease or injury of the medulla, and paralysis of the nerves or muscles of respiration, including paralysis of the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles, which maintain the patency of the glottis. Trained individuals are able, Avithout extraneous aid, to suspend the pro- cess of respiration voluntarily for two or three minutes ; but in other subjects a suspension of the process for less than two minutes is sufficient to cause death by apnoea. Resuscitation after prolonged suspension is presumptive proof that indistinguishable movements of respiration have been going on to an extent sufficient to prevent absolute arrest of circulation. Apnoea by drowning, except under unusual circumstances, is rather quicker than apnoea by other causes—the access of water to the lungs driving out air, the retention of which Avould have prolonged life for a few additional seconds. Total submersion for two minutes is sufficient to extinguish life, as a rule, unless syncope takes place promptly. Syncope diminishes the immediate need for arterialized blood, and tljus suppresses the convulsive muscular movements, which favor expulsion of air from the chest, and favor ingress of liquid. In most instances of drowning, the head comes once or oftener to the surface, permitting additional insjdrations of air which prolong exist- ence ; and most examples of recovery after apparently prolonged submersion are to l>e explained in this manner. The mechanism of the arrest of circulation in death by apnoea has long been in dispute, despite numerous autopsies and innumerable experiments upon animals. The views promulgated by Prof. George dohnson, of London,* and based in part upon some experiments performed for him by Prof. Ruther- ford, have recently been reinforced in such st]-ong terms by iJr. Alexander Harvey, of Aberdeen,^ that it is desirable to present them here in brief. Ac- cording to this theory, the capillary vessels of the lungs are virtually blood- less at the moment of death, and the lungs tliemselves are collapsed and ansernic throughout at their base. AVhile the capillaries are virtually empty, minute quantities of blood remain arrested in them at points immediately contiguous to the terminal extremities of the arterioles. This state of things is attributed to mechanicar arrest of blood in the pulmonic arterioles, in con- sequence of an energetic, though not instantaneous, contraction of tlie muscu- lar arterioles; so that minute jiortions of l)lood remain caught at the points designated, although the contents of the capillaries as a whole have become emptied into the venules. It is to the presence of multitudes of these minute collections of blood, still accessible to air Avhich might be conveyed to the air-cells, that resuscitation by artificial respiration is believed to owe its feasibility. The contraction of these muscular arterioles is attributed to the ‘ Lumleian Lectures on tlie Muscular Arterioles. Reprinted from the Brit. Med. .Jour., 1877. ^ Med. Times and Graz., Dec. 1 and 8, 1883, pp. (122, 649.