INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ORBIT. 195 functions for a very long time. The limitation is first and chiefly noticed towards the side of the tumor, and is in proportion to its size. The lids stretch with the slow increase of the exophthalmus, and still cover the eye, even in the extremest cases. If the progress is rapid, the pain, impaired motion, double vision, and violent reaction from exposure, show themselves much earlier. In that event, ulceration of the cornea and loss of vision may be expected much sooner. Of the many kinds of orbital growth, some are fatally malignant, others less so, and some harmless, except from the want of room. Some are ex- tremely Arm, others less so; some are cystic or mixed, others bony. In some instances the growth is very slow. These are apt to prove_ benignant. Others, of rapid progress, are more likely to he malignant. The different kinds of vascular tumor are generally traumatic, and sudden in their appear- ance. Exostoses are always of very slow growth, especially those of the ivory variety. When accessible to the touch, much may be learned of the tumor’s consistence by that means. A case in point, of exostosis, is the following d— ]\Iary E. T., 23 yeai’s old, of rugged constitution and in good healtli, consulted me March 13, 1878. It was diilicult to procure a clear liistory of her case, on account of the patient’s stupidity. For three years the family had noticed a divergence of the left eye when she fixed objects closely, or was embarrassed. About one year before, an unnatural prominence of the eye had been observed. Since that time exophthalmus and divergence had slowly increased, and the sight had disa[)[)eared. No traumatic or consti- tutional origin of the affection could be traced or even supposed. Her health had been uniformly good. The patient had a broad face, flat nose, and stolid expression. Her condition, when examined, was found to be as follows: The left eye was pressed upwards and outwards, and protruded to such a degree that the centre of the cornea was half an inch in advance of the other; the movements were limited downwards and inwards, but free in other directions. With that eye she had only vague perception of light, the sight of the other being perfect. The prominence was so excessive that sliglit pressure on the upper lid caused it to close in behind the ball. At the lower and inner part of the orbit a tumor was seen, dislodging the eye—bony hard to the touch, some- what nodulated, but round, and extending deeply into the socket; the pupil did not respond to light, when the other eye was excluded, but remained large and fixed. With the ophthalmosco[)e I discovered marked neuro-retinitis from stasis ; the entire retina was hazy, and the vessels were tortuous and obscured at many points with exuda- tions ; the disk was much engorged, and its margins were difficult to identify. It was evident that the eye was visually useless, and, the tumor being large, deeply seated, and firmly attached to the os planum of the ethmoid, I thought it safest and best to enucleate tlie eye and then remove the growth ; this was done with the [latient under ether. After enucleation, I found by the finger that tlie tumor was firmly united to the inner wall of the orbit, and extended nearly to the apex. Cutting through the capsule of Tenon and the periosteum, I denuded the mass as extensively as possible ; then, with the bone- nippers, an effort was made to cut off a portion of it, but it was so hard that with my utmost strengtli I could only bring away very little. I then opened a strong pair of bone-force[)S very widely, forced them over it so as to secure a firm hold, and by a few wrigofling movements detached it en masse from its connections, and drew it out, thus completing the operation in a few minutes, and without any shock from chiselling or slipping of tlie forceps. But little bleeding occurred, and the patient soon rallied from the ether. Two days afterwards she returned to her home in the country; the fol- lowing night, however, my assistant was called to her to arrest a severe hemorrhage from the nostril of that side. A section of the-tumor measured IG mm. in its longest diameter; in its transverse diameter it measured about 10 mm.; tlie rough bony pedicle measured 8 mm. in one direction, and 5 mm. in the other, showing that it was continuous with the os planum hy a constricted neck. The entire growth came clean away, bring- ing no true bone with it. It was as hard as ivory throughout, admitting of a nice ' Traiisaotions of the Am. Med. Association, vol. xxx.