INJURIES TO THE NOSE. 439 1. In the nose there exists a well-defined sensitive area, the stimulation of which, either through a local pathological process, or through the action of an irritant intro- duced from without, is capable of producing an excitation which finds its expression in a reflex action or in a series of reflected phenomena. 2. This sensitive area corres- ponds, in all probability, with that portion of the nasal mucous membrane which covers the turbinated corpora cavernosa. 3. Reflex cough is produced only by stimulation of this area, and is only exceptionally evoked when the irritant is applied to other por- tions of the nasal mucous membrane. 4. All parts of this area are not equally capable of generating the reflex act, the most sensitive spot being probably represented by that portion of the membrane which clothes the posterior extremity of the turbinated body, and that of the septum immediately opposite. 5. The tendency to reflex action varies in diflei'ent individuals, and is probably dependent upon the varying degree of excita- bility of the erectile tissue. In some, the slightest touch is sulficient; in others, chronic hyperaemia or hypertro[)hy of tlie cavernous bodies seems to evoke it by constant irrita- tion of the reflex centres, as occurs in similar conditions of other erectile organs. 6. Tills exaggerated or disordered functional activity of the area may jiossibly tlirow some light on the pliysiological destiny of the erectile bodies. Among other pro[ierties which they possess, they act as sentinels to guard the lower air-passages and pharynx against the entrance of foreign bodies, noxious exhalations, and other injurious agents to which they might otherwise be exposed. Injuries to the Hose. Fractures of the nasal bones are caused by severe blows or falls upon the organ. If the force comes from before and from above, a transverse fracture is usually the result, within from three to six lines of the lower and free margins of the nasal bones, and the fragments are simply displaced backyvards; or if the blow is received partially upon one side, they are dis- placed more or less laterally. Greater force will generally break the ossa nasi transversely, and a little above their middle, while at tlie same time the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones may be slightly involved ; and finally, the amount of force requisite to break in the nasal bones at their upper third is very great. Hamilton* asserts that if they do yield at this point, there is no doubt but that the Imse of the skull must yield also, and that patients can hardly be expected to recover from so severe an accident. In children the nasal bones may be spread and fiattened, the lateral inargiiis not being depressed or displaced, but only the mesial line or arch forced back so as to press aside the processes of the superior maxillse. This deformity may become permanent. (Hamilton.) The attendant injury to the soft parts, and the rapidity with which swell- ing ensues after these accidents, render the diagnosis at times difficult. Careful inspection and ])alpation, if at once instituted, rarely fail, however, to establish the fact, and crepitation, which can usually be felt, especially if the fracture be multiple, confirms it. Bleeding, which may be so profuse as to endanger life, commonly attends the accident, and if the lachrymal bone be involved, emphysema of the eyelids and of the cellular tissue of the orbit, due to an escape of air from the nose, will exist. Gross^ calls attention to the fact that sometimes violent cephalic symptoms attend these fractures, depending upon the intimate connection between the nasal and frojital Ijones, which permits the jarring effects of the blow or fall to be commurdcated to the brain and its envelopes. Hanger to life is to be apprehended, however, only when there is serious cerelmal involvement, as when the lesion is associated with fracture of the cribriform plate of the Fractures anU Dislocations, p. 90. “ System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 94(5.