797 CONTUSIONS OF THE CHEST. though sometimes serious, is yet often attended with but little risk. Occa- sionally it becomes a remote source of danger by giving rise to perinephritic abscess, a disease which, should it follow, may delay its development for many months, being at first obscure and ill defined in its characters, and perhaps only I’evealing its existence by a sudden and unexpected rupture into the peritoneum. Rapture of Viscera ivithout Fracita'e.—The injuries of the thorax which possess the highest interest in view of the difficulties attaching to the expla- nation of their details, are the contusions of the viscera with laceration of their structure, which take place without fracture of the Ijony cage of the thorax. In many of the examples of these lesions, the subjects have been children, even mere infants, in ivhose bodies the flexibility and elasti- city of the chest-wall is such that it is easier to compi-ehend the occurrence of laceration of the lung without fracture of the bones, tlian in the adult. Such are the earliest recorded cases, those of Andjrose Pare and Morgagni. There are, however, abundant examples which establish, on incontrovertible evidence, the fact that such lacerations are not the exclusive property of infancy, or even of early youth. [Tlie Editor has tabulated’ 30 cases of this kind, with 19 deatlis and 11 recoveries.] Writers on military surgery all admit the frecpiency of such injuries in tiie field, involving the lungs, heart, and great vessels, Avithout wound or fracture. JIo less than twenty-five cases are reported in the Medical and Sur- gical History of the War of the Eebellion, Avhich are referable to this group; in these Ave find the age of the patients recorded in seven cases, giving twenty-six yeai’s as the average. To many of these cases the term concussion is ap})lied—a term Avhich some Avriters have applied to all the injuries of this group, and Avhich would appear to have been often used Avith tlie idea of estab- lishing an analogy between the injuries of the chest and those of the head. I have already noticed, in excluding them from the sco}»e of this article, the injuries of the spinal segment of the thoracic Avail as alone liable to ]iroduce damage bj^ concussion. As far as my ex[)erience goes, the heaid is the only tho- racic viscus which appears to suffer from concussion in any manner analogous to the brain. I am well aware that there is good reason to conclude that in most examples of concussion of the brain and spinal cord, structural lesions exist, and that so the term concussion most often implies an injury Avhich e3ca})es discovery through our ignorance in the art of reading symptoms ariglit, and sometimes the form of injury which is most tempo- rary and reparable. Still, cases are recorded Avhich force us to admit the l)Ossibility of concussion Avliich Avill arrest for a time, or forever, the func- tion of the nervous system, Avithout appreciable lesion of the tissue of the organs. Similarly, among the recorded concussions of the th(U-ax, avc have at least one undisputed account of fatal injury, recorded by most competent authoi’ity, Avhich presented no anatomical lesion. Nelaton,^ Avho records this fact, observed by himself, attaches to it its })roper value; “ We confine our- selves to the simple statement of the fact, Avliich is entirel}" exceptional and jierhaps unique.” Tlie record is as folloAvs :— A porter was dragging a small, heavy-laden truck, when the strap broke; his liody was consequently thrown violently on the ground, the front of the chest bearing all the force of the shock. In a few moments he Avas dead, and the autopsy revealed nothing beyond a supei-ficial contusion of the anterior wall of the chest, Avithout any alteration of the thoracic organs. ' Principles and Practice of Surgery, 3d edit., page 365. Philadepiliia, 1882. * Patliologie Externe, t. iii. p. 493.