642 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. ^ Op. cit., S. 32. ' Practical Surgery, 2d ed., p. 364. London, 1838. such measures, and yet his own house-surgeon would have lost a jiatient in this Avay, had his master not instantly cut the sutures and removed a clot which impeded respiration.* It is important, therefore, in treating incised wounds that the parts should not be united hy suture until there remains no further risk from reactionary hemorrhage. Arterial hemorrhage must be restrained by ligatures above and below the wound in the vessel, whenever practicable. But even ligature of the bleeding vessel does not secure immunity from the later hemorrhage, for this may be parencliymatous, or may proceed from vessels whose bleeding is not controlled by the ligatures. Should the hemorrhage be profuse, and beyond restraint by compression and by ligature of such vessels as are within reach, the indication would be to tie the carotid artery, a measure successfully employed under these circumstances by Le Gros Clark. "When the external wound is very large, it is allowable to unite its outer portions ; but the central part should be left open. Should bagging of the horizontal wound take place, the pockets should be divided vertically, as recom- mended by Strorneyer,^ so as to prevent the burrowing of pus, which is otherwise almost certain, since union cannot take place by first intention, and extensive suppuration is to be expected. When all danger from hemor- rhage has ceased, the tissues on either side of the opening into the air-passage may be brought together with adhesive strips, and a few sutures may be taken into the soft parts, ample room being left for drainage; but no suture should be taken through the cartilage or its perichondrium. Sutures are so illy-borne in these situations, and so pulled on in coughing, that they either cut out and are useless, or excite such an amount of local irritation as to necessitate their Avithdrawal. Although Prof. Gross and other surgeons express themselves free from fear of this kind, a careful perusal of published records shows that those cases have done best in which these sutures have not been used ; and that in most instances in which they have been employed, they have torn their way out, or have had to be removed, even in cases Avhere the wound was not extensive. Sutures are rarely necessary even in the soft parts. They will tear out from the pharynx ; Avhile extensive wounds, com- prising almost the entire cii’cumference, will, when let alone, sometimes heal up with a very small cicatrix. Should the external wound be draAvn together too much, emphysema may take place by interference with the full escape of the expiratory currents of the breath. The parts having been placed in apposition as far as may be judicious, and the patient placed in the semi-recumbent position, the head is to be flexed and to be retained in position by a cap or handkei’chief-bandage (Mayor’s occipito- sternal cravat) attached to a chest bandage beneath the arms, or to the Avaist- band of a pair of draAvers, or to the foot of the bed—the object being to main- tain the horizontal edges of the Avounds in juxtaposition, and thus to faA’or cicatrization, which may be expected in from tAvo to three Aveeks. The head should not be draAvn so far fonvard as to make the edges of the Avound over- lap. Prof. Stromeyer attaches a small tuft of hair sideAvise over the broAv to a bandage fastened to a girdle or jacket, to act as a reminder to the patient to avoid incautious movements. He mentions the case of a man in Avhom the sterno-mastoid muscle had been cut through ; and although the head stood straight Avhen no movement Avas made, it flapped toAvard the opposite side on the slightest movement, as quickly as the snap-to of the blade of a pocket knife; an action Avhich ceased as soon as the head aants bound by a tuft of hair to the opposite side. The dressing should be completed by covering the Avound lightly Avith a