HERNIA. IITG rotation of the pad. until the proper ohlicpiit}" and right bearing upon the inguinal canal are obtained, 'when it can be fixed by tightening the screw with a small screw-driver. The studs on the ends of the horseshoe are for the attachment of the under strap, when this is needed. This strap, however, can in most cases be dispensed with after wearing the truss for a little while, till it adjusts itself under the heat of the body and settles into its proper place. In all cases, the side spring should lie in the slight depression below the crest of the ilium, between it and the projection of the trochanter major. At the back it should lie evenly upon the sloping posterior surface of the sacrum, just avoiding the projecting posterior superior iliac spines. In a single truss, the free end of the spring may he connected b}" means of an eyed cross-strap with the stud on the centre of the pad. In a double truss the cross-strap is attached to both the central studs of the pad; in many cases, however, the cross-strap may be entirely dispensed with after a few months’ wear. For use in hot countries, as in India, and also for bathing, the spring and pad may be entirely uncovered, no leather or soft material being necessary, except a linen or silken bag or covering for the truss, which may be removed at intervals for change and cleanliness. These trusses have been worn for years by scores of patients in the East and West Indies, with the greatest comfort and effect. Truss for Direct Inyidncd Hernia.—In some large cases of direct hernia, the cord becomes displaced so much to the outer side of the opening that it lies fairly across Poupart’s ligament, and is out of the way of pressure by the truss-pad on the pubis. Under such conditions, the rupture can often be better controlled by a circular or ring gad of the same material as the former (Fig. 1157). In these pads the spring is attached by a screw to a cross-piece placed Fig. 1157. over the hole (5). The pressure in both these kinds of pad falls chiefl}" on the margins of the superficial ring. In the horseslioe form, it i-esembles the pressure of the fingers upon the rupture. There is no conical or plug-like pressure in the axis of the hernial opening. At the same time, it is more difficult for the rupture to escape by the sides of the pad. The sides of the ring and canal are thus pressed together instead of asunder, as by the action of the conical or convex pads, and the closure of the opening is promoted instead of being retarded. Both these forms of truss-pad ma}^ be used after the ope- ration for the radical cure has been performed. They promote the gradual closure of the aperture and the contraction of the cicatrix, upon which the cure depends'. They may be made of soft material in cases where ease and comfort are more to be looked for than a radical cure, or where the hard