INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 652 of the larynx, externally, aftords no relief to the dyspncea as it does in retro- pharyngeal abscess, and serves therefore as a method of discrimination. Accuracy in diagnosis is assured at once hy laryngoscopic inspection. The mdematons epiglottis presents itself as a gelatinoid, quivering tumor, varying in size from that of a peanut to that of a walnut. Its conliguration varies. Occasionally it is constricted hy the glosso-epiglottic ligament, so as to re- semble two bladder-like projections instead of one. Sometimes it looks like a lai’ge, limpid sac overhanging the upper aperture of the larynx. The laiyn- geal surface does not favor accumulations of fluid ; hence the oedema is usually confined to the lingual surface and the crest. Fig. 1027. (Edema of epiglottis. Fig. 1028. (Edema of aryteno-epiglottic folds. Oedema of the aiyteno-epiglottic fold, usually bilateral, appears, in the laryngoscopic image, as a pale pink or yellow„translucent or semi-translucent, pyramidal tumor, resembling in color an cedematous prepuce or an oedematous eyelid. As a rule, the ventricular hand (false vocal cord) becomes obliterated into a mass continuous with the aryteno-epiglottic fold. When bilateral, the mdema is usually unecpial. Sometimes these tumors are livid. They may attain the size of a pigeon’s egg. The swollen folds of tissue project towards each other, and occlude the calibre of the upper portion of the laiynx—the glottis of the ancients—hence, probably the term cedema glottidis. The space between them becomes diminished to a mere slit; and in pronounced cases, this slit becomes smaller during inspiration, from the pressure of the inspi- ratory current, which slightly forces its surfaces into contact. Sometimes, indeed, they stick together for a moment. During the expiratory phase of respiration they separate, at times sufficiently to disclose the vocal bands be- neath them. Gougenheim^ denies this downward and inward movement by atmospheric pressure, and asserts tliat the oedematous folds separate in inspi- ration, following the movements of the vocal bands. He attributes the dys- pna'a to spasm. That he is correct as far as concerns the cases observed by himself, there is no reason to doubt; but I have noticed the action above described, not only laryngoscopically, but likewise directly, in the oedema consecutive to suicidal wounds of the neck which exposed the larynx to direct view. In a case of acute inflammatory oedema of the vocal bands recorded bj-Semon, “ the upper surfaces of these structures were fpnte rounded, so that they looked semi-cylindrical,” and “ their color was changed into a bright, semi-transparent red.” 1 Annales des Maladies de I’Oreille et du Larynx, etc., p. 125, Juillet, 1883.