214 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. course, if with all the lesions already described, a foreign body be lodged in the lens, it must be removed with as much of the lens as possible. If an iridectomy can aid in its removal, this should he employed, and will, perhaps, help to save the eye. Should the foreign body have traversed the lens and lodged deep in the eye, it cannot he removed, and the sight will be lost, with groat danger of sympathetic trouble in the fellow. In such a case, immediate enucleation may he advisable. If a limited contusion of the cornea, without perforation or rupture of the globe, has occurred, the immediate reaction may be slight, but very destruc- tive consequences are likely to follow.^ Wounds of the cornea proper are not as dangerous to sight, even with the serious complications mentioned,as injuries of the same kind at t\iQ sclero-corneal junction. If the aqueous and vitreous chambers have both been opened, there will not only he loss of vitreous and perhaps intra-ocular hemorrhage, but prolapsus of the iris and of the ciliaiy circle. A careful removal, if possible, of aiiy foreign body from the wound and the eye, must be followed by snip- ping the iris from the corneal wound, and clipping off the protruding viti’e- ous, so as to secure the very best coaptation. It is seldom advisable to use a stitch except for the conjunctiva. If extensive wounds of this critical region be complicated by intra-ocular hemorrhage, and the presence of a foreign body that cannot be reached, immediate enucleation is the shortest and safest way out of difficulty. Lately, a few successful cases have been reported of removal of pieces of steel from the eye by aid of a magnet. In the great majority of instances this plan fails, but it is sometimes worth a trial. In wounds of the sclera, not involving the ciliary region, a stitch or two, embracing the ocular conjunctiva and the superficial tissues of the sclera, may be resorted to with advantage. In extensive rupture of the sclera, parallel to the corneal margin, with perhaps complete loss of the lens and escape of vitreous, little can he done but to cleanse the wound and apply a bandage for a few days or weeks. Such ruptures are not apt to be followed by violent reaction or sym- pathetic danger, and sometimes get well with useful vision. If the lens has escaped and lodged under the conjunctiva, this membrane must be incised and the lens removed. In case of concussion of the eye, without rupture or wound, the lens may he luxated, and may become, as it nearly always does, a serious source of irritation and danger. If it has been knocked through the pu})il into the anterior cliamber, it must be carefully extracted. If displaced to one side, behind the iris, it is very liable to give rise to irritation and secondary glaucoma, with pain and total blindness. In that case, if it can- not be safely extracted, the eye should he enucleated in order to save suffering and place the other eye in a condition of safety. An operation for the removal of such a lens involves grave difficulties and risks. Still, it can sometimes be successfully done, and the eye .saved. Should a small foreign body, driven with force, penetrate deep into and remain in the eye, with only partial im- pairment of sight,‘what is the wisest course to pursue? If it cannot he re- moved by the magnet, it may be safe and Avise to keep the patient quietly under observation for some Aveeks or months, to see if it Avill be tolerated. It may become encysted in the vitreous, retina, or choroid, and may remain harmless. But such eyes are ahvays a source of solicitude to the experienced surgeon, and may suddenly develop trouble, at any time. If fixed in the ciliary region, the foreign body Avill almost certainly give rise to inflammation and sympathetic danger. When forbearance ceases to be safe for the patient, enucleation must he resorted to. Of all foreign bodies lodged in the eye, a shot is more likely to remain • See liypopium keratitis, i;>age 228.