235 DISEASES OF THE IRIS. Little irritation follows, and the cosmetic process may he repeated, at intervals, till the end is gained. If not a source of pain and danger to the other eye, and presentable in looks—or if it can be made so—I much prefer to preserve the natural eye. Artilicial eyes are an endless source of trouble and expense, and few persons are so prudent as to be able to wear them at all, for many years. Diseases of the Iris. Malformations of the Iris.—Among malformations of this part may be especially mentioned the affection known as coloboma iridis^ or congenital fis- sure of the iris, and that known as midtifle of which a remakable example, involving both eyes, is illustrated in Plate XXVII., Figs. 3 and 4. Iritis.—Rememliering the delicacy and wmnderful activity of the iris, Ave are not surprised to find it the seat of frequent inttamniation. Iritis may run an acute course, or may appear in a slow and insidious form. Symptoms.—These, in most cases, are so sharp-cut and characteristic, that a false tliagnosis is inexcusable. And yet hoAV often is this disease pronounced “ sore eyes,” and treated with nitrate of silver, till hopeless closure of the j)U[»il takes place ! AV^hile iritis yields to timely and intelligent treatment, with great certainty, nothing can be more latal tlian such a mistake of diagnosis. Severe and somewhat paroxysmal pains in the eye and face, too, are attributed to simple neuralgia, Avitli serious delay in the recognition of the true malady. Hence the vital importance of a speedy and correct diagnosis. The objective symptoms are discoloration, loss of the natural bril- liancy of the iris, as well as of its fibrous appearance, sluggishness of the iiupil, and finally adhesions to the capsule of the lens, synechia posterior. The changed color, depending much upon the original color of the iris, is explained by the increased amount of blood in its texture, and the extra- vasated elements. When but one eye is affected, the color contrast and differ- ence in the activity of the pupils will be striking. Sometimes the occurrence of infiammatory nodules, near the })upillary margin or elsewliere, Avill attract attention. There is no one symptom, or groiq) of symptoms, that is so pathognomonic of syphilitic iritis as these gummy formations. Ilypopium is not very infrequent, but is ofteuer detected in ulcerations of the cornea, par- ticularly when deep and threatening perforation. A pinkish zone of injec- tion around the cornea, fading in intensity towards the equator of the eye, is another constant symj)tom of acute iritis. Xow and then infiammatory chernosis, and extravasations of Ifiood over the sclerotic conjimctiAaa, are seen, and indicate an intense form with probable panophthalmitis. There is always some impairment of vision, and often a very serious one, capable of being demonstrated objectively by the type tests. Blurring of sight is due to cloudiness of the aqueous humor, (leposits in the pupil, and sometimes to turbidness of the vitreous, due to complicating choroiditis. Indeed, it often happens, that optic neuritis or neuro-retiiutis, develops with an iritis, but is overlooked. Sutyeetiveh/., the patient complains of intense })ain in and around the eye, usually aggravated at night, or Ijy lying down. These severe, circumorlfital |)ains are characteristic. Sometimes the juiiii is confined to the eye; at other times it is exclusively in the liones arotind ; but usually it is in both. Photo- phobia and weeping are not strongly marked in this disease, as they are in keratitis. The sluggishness of the pu])il, in response to varying degrees of light, may range from complete immobility tf) but slightly diminished motion. This may be due to spasmodic contraction of the iriltated sphincter, or to