220 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. often be wet or washed witli water. Absorbent cotton furnishes by far the best means of mopping and cleansing the eyes. The lids should be gentl}’ but well separated once an hour, or oftener if the secretion be excessive, and the matter that escapes should be rubbed off Avith the cotton and throAvn into the lire. This can be so lightly done as not to Avaken the infant, and the treat- ment must be rigidly kept up as long as the purulent discharge persists. Tavo or three times a day, the eyes should be Avell Avashed Avith tepid Avater. Infants are extremely sensitive to cold Avater. At each cleansing, or at least once an hour, a feAv drops of a solution of boracic acid, live grains to one ounce, should be dropped into the eyes, and the lids draAvn open so that it may reach the Avhole suppurating surface. It causes little or no irritation, acts as an astringent, and perhaps destroys the micrococci and their germs. An ecpially safe and still more efficient remedy is the nitrate of silver, half a grain to one ounce, used with the same thoroughness and frequency. A solution of alum, one grain to one ounce, may be applied in the same Avay. Once a day, after the suppuration is frankly established, I evert the lids fully and carefully, and pencil them Avitli a solution of nitrate of silver, from live to ten grains to one ounce, taking great care to prevent its running over the cornea. When the lids are everted and held securely, their natural spas- modic closure Avill fully evert the retro-bulbar folds, and Avill protect the cornea from the contact of the fluid. Waiting a second or tAvo till the bi’ushed surface becomes Avhitish, tepid Avater must be freely used to Avash ofl’ the ex- cess of fluid before returning the lids. In this Avay no harm can come to the cornea, and the suppuration can be very promptly and rapidly controlled. I always expect the child to be brought back the next day after the flrst brushing, very much better. Once a day is nsually often enough for this treatment, keeping up the cleansing and use of Aveak Avashes in the intervals. But even Avith simple cleansing and the daily brushings, Avithout any other medication, these cases get rapidly Avell in from one to three weeks. I cannot recall a single case in Avhich ulceration and serious damage to the cornea have ever been Avitnessed, under this course of treatment, Avhen the cornea has been intact at the beginning. Whatever theory may be adopted as to the patho- logy of this aflection, all Avho have tested the nitrate-of-silver treatment fairly, agree as to its efficacju Purulent conjunctivitis is a self-limited disease, but persists much longer under cleansing and milder treatment than under that Avhicli I have advised. As danger to the cornea exists during the Avhole suppuratiA^e period, the more quickly it is cut short, the sooner is the danger over. As the SAvelling and supjAuration subside, the intervals between the pencillings riiay be prolonged. Firmness, but delicacy, of manipulation, in everting the lids and in safelj^ applying the remedy, can only be acquired by experience. The child should be laid backwards across the nurse’s lap, Avith its head held firmly betAV'een the surgeon’s knees, face upAvard, the Avater, medicine, and all the needed implements being at hand. ISTo instrument is required to evert the lids. Treatment of Puruleyit Conjunctivitis in Adults.—It Avill be admitted, I think’ that Avith tlie same management, or mismanagement, a larger number of adults than of infants Avill be blinded by this disease. The older and more decrepit the subject, the greater the danger to the cornea and to sight. With grown persons, I insist that they shall be put to bed and kept there till Aveil. In the very onset of the disease, I begin the constant use of iced compresses. These must be changed, day and night, eA^ery ten or fifteen minutes, and continued till the ;[)ain, soreness, SAvelling, and violence of the disease are under thorough control. Then they may be intermitted for a Icaa'- hours in the day, and in the night. Constant and careful remoA^al of the matter from the eyes, as Avith infants, is of the greatest importance. As soon