INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. GIG or combined with chloroform liniment, twice as much of the former as of the latter, does very well to remove the stiffness which remains. Leeches and cold are not used, and blisters are seldom required. If the inflammation in a lymphatic gland, however, were very acute, of course local depletion might be useful. Many prefer to cover a simple swelled parotid with cotton wad- ding, and to abstain from all active local ti’eatment. As a rule, I have mj’self found this quite sufficient. The orchitis which occasionally arises during the course of parotitis is easily managed. Rest, fomentations, and elevation of the part, will soon subdue it. Leeches, if used, assist the induction of that atrophy which occasionally follows, and therefore should not be applied. Leeches too are very troublesome when applied to the scrotum or cord. Blisters and caustics are even more objectionable. It is useless to try and attract the inflamma- tion again to the parotid, by blisters aiiplied to it, if the testis be already involved. Time and rest will do more than active treatment to secure an eftectnal and safe recovery. The administration of mercury and iodide of potassium, as recommended by some, is unnecessary. Suppurative Parotitis {Parotid Bubo).—In weakly subjects, aud in de- pressed conditions, as after child-birth, erysipelas, typhoid fever, diphtheria, and smallpox, or in the course of septicaemia, from a too prolonged course of mercury, or from closure of Steno’s duct, suppuration may occur in the parotid after an attack of acute “ phlegmonous” inflammation within the gland, and it is not so very unusual for it to implicate the cellular tissue which lies over it. The pus, when formed within the strong capsule of the gland, has great difficulty in coming to the surface, and may work havoc in various direc- tions. It may pass downwards even into the chest, upAvards along the sheath of the A^essel into the skull, backwards behind the pharynx, or into the ear and the articulation of the lower jaAv. It is therefore necessary to giA^e early A’ent to an abscess situated in the parotid. If the pus lies external to the gland, the incision made should correspond in direction to the course of the facial nerve, but if the gland has to be cut into, the knife should be carried parallel to the external carotid, one or more of Avhose branches may possibly be Avounded iiotAvithstanding every care. A director and dressing forceps should be employed to reach the pus if it be deep, and antiseptic dressings should be used, as Auolent and dangerous bleeding, thrombosis, and blood- poisoning liaA^e folloAved deep avouikIs in the parotid. Sloughing, and even Avhat has been designated as mortiflcation, have been seen after Auolent in- flammation, and this Avill be the more readily pi’oduced if, Avhen an abscess forms, early and ettectual drainage be not secured. It is not in the parotid gland that inflammation leading to troublesome suppuration is so commonly seen, as in the lymphatic glands Avhich lie in and especially beloAv the parotid. Such inflammatiou causes the usual local signs of its presence. The redness is occasionally erysipelatous, Avhile there is heat, Avith acute pain increased on pressure and movement. There is also marked constitutional disturbance. The sAvelling is often great, and the cavity of the mouth inflamed, while the pressure caused by the swelling may not only occasion great pain and tension, but may interfere Avith the return of blood from tlie brain, and so bring on delirium and other troublesome symptoms. The pus has a horrid fetor from being mixed Avith air, and it may collect in one large or several small ab- scesses. Recovery is often protracted, and relapses are not unfrequent. Dis- agreeable marking, parotid fistula, and facial paralysis may eventuate from extensive suppuration in this region. If the inflammation is acute, it Avill require to be promptly and actively treated by leeches and repeated blisters, and if pus forms, l;y an early incision.