933 PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. when an artery or vein—whether of the parietes, of the omentum, or of one of the mesenteries—is tlie source of bleeding, there is the utmost danger in temporizing with sucli remedies. The second rule, therefore, should be to enlarge the wound when necessary, and to search for the source of hemor- rhage. Ligatures or torsion should then be applied to the vessel at the wounded part, blood should be carefully removed from the peritoneum, and the external wound should be closed in the usual maiiiier. Catgut ligatures are generally used for the adhesions and vessels divided in ovariotomy, and experience has shown that there is no danger in putting on a large number of them, and leavdng them, cut short, in the cavity of the peritoneum. Care should be taken to cleanse the peritoneum from fluid blood and clots. The pernicious doctrine of -Jourdan, that surgery is powerless in lesions of tlie bloodvessels of the abdomen, ought not to paralyze the liand of the sur- geon, who should in cases of free hemorrhage feel himself called on to expose and, if possible, secure the ivounded vessel, whether in the walls of or within the abdomen, and should decline to rely on general measures, such as tents, compresses, and styptics. It is quite possible, however, that in some cases—-such as that above referred to, in winch the museulo-phrenic and superior epigastric arteries were injured—it nnght be impossible to ligate the vessel at the seat of the wound ; but in that event the same rule should be followed as in injuries to vessels of the limbs—viz., the trunk should be tied between the wound and the heart. Thus, in the case of the musculo- phrenic, the internal mammary artery could Ije ligatured in the second or third intercostal space; for though the anastomosing currents are free and would soon be established, still a good chance would be afforded for tbe closure of the wound by chh. Even large trunks, when divided by shot, are sometimes eompletelj^ closed as if by torsion, but in })unctured or incised wounds this is seldom, if ever, the case. On Wounds op the Abdomen made by the Surgeon.-—It would be out of the province of this article to describe in detail all the many wounds which the surgeon from time to time inflicts upon the abdomen in the useful exercise of his art, but it may be well to enumerate the chief of them, some of which will find place in subsequent portions of this article, and others in the articles on hernia, intestinal obstruction, and injuries and diseases of the })clvic organs. 1. Opening the abdomen for the relief of various sources of internal strangu- lation, including internal herniai, bands, twists, obturator and ischiatic herni:H; for the excision of portions of the stomach or bowel when strictured, or the seat of malignant disease; or for the removal of other viscera, such as tlie kid- ney, Sjileen, uterine appendages, etc. 2. Opening th,e sfomuch foi’ the removal of foreign bodies, and for the pre- vention of starvation in strictures of the oesophagus. 3. Opening the small intestines has been proposed for the removal of foreign bodies, and in cases of intussusce}ition. It rarely, however, occurs that a foreign body l>ccomes impacted in tbe bowel so as to require lemoval; and in intussusce})tion, either the invaginated bowel can be pulled out, or the atfected part, if sloughy, will require excision. The small intestine is some- times oi)ened for the relief of intestinal obstruction which is seated above the ciecum, and the cause of which cannot be made out. In these cases the open- ing sboidd be made for the sake of giving relief to the patient, on the same grounds that the bladder is punctured in cases of impassable stricture. I have openo<l the ileum a short distance above the c:ecum, through a sligbtly-ciirved incision, one inch above the spine of the ilium and outer [lart of Poupart’s ligament, on tbe right side; and immense relief from the anguish