CRURAL OR FEMORAL HERNIA. 1159 There is very rarely any trouble from an irregular course of the obturator ai’tery. If profuse bleeding, -wbetber arterial or venous, should occur at tlie crural opening after the return of the bowel, the aperture should he dilated —by division, if necessaiy, of Poupai't’s ligament—and the bleeding point exposed and secured with a small catgut ligature. If the bowel is ulcerated through by the pressure of the aponeurotic fibres, tlie part above is commonly adherent to their edge. Under such circum- stances the gut should not be detached, nor the adhesions meddled with, after division of the stricture. The intestine should be left undisturbed, and not cut into unless clearly sphacelated. By this means, the formation of an artificial anus is often prevented, especially with the aid of the spray and gauze dressings. A small drainage-tube, or a bundle of horseliair or catgut, having been placed in the lower part of the wound, three or four points of suture should Ite applied, and then a small pad of gauze on each side over the protective oil skin; then the whole should be well ]>added with wet and dry gauze, especially towards the innei- side. Tlie entire dressing should be well secured by a s^iica bandage, and the patient placed in bed, with the knees bent over a bolster. Diagnosis of Unstrangulated Crural Hernia.—The most important point in these cases is to make sure wliether the tumor in the groin is one which re- cpiires truss-pressure, or one which would be injured liy it. The latter group includes the cases of enlarged glands, especially those acutely inflamed, and abscesses, which have already been considered. Oliliterated hernial sacs and adipose tumors are often benefited by light truss-pressure. Cysts and vari- cose tumors in this situation are usually aggravated by it, unless, in the latter instances, the truss is soft, light, and accurateh^ fitted. "When the question of an operation for the radical cure is raised, the size of the neck of the sac and the nature of the contents are important. If the formei’ is small and the latter omental, tliere is more chance of success than under opposite circumstances. The general diagnosis of the tumors which simulate crural hernia has been already discussed. Another important point is the distinction between crural and inguinal hernia, which in very stout persons is sometimes by no means easy. It has been treated of at length in the sec- tion on the diagnosis of inguinal hernia, at page 1133. Operation for the Radical Cure of Crural Hernia.—The importance of, and necessity for, this operation, is generally by no means as great as in the case of inguinal liernia. In the first place, it is of much less frequent occurrence, and, in the next, it is l>y far most commonly found in females, whose less laborious employments and ■wliose more flowing garments render the wearing of a truss more efficacious and less irksome than in tlie male sex. Still, there are instances wherein it is desirable, for lioth patient and surgeon, that a radical cure should lie attem])ted before tlie operation for strangulation is needed; and when the latter is required, a radical cure can be accomplished without increased risk, while the coverings of tlie henna are divided. In the up)per and middle classes, truss-pressure is always more or less irksome, and to some tender skins painful and iveailsome; and in the working classes, women often have employments which recpiire much mus- cular effort, as is the case with market-women, milk-women, etc. The exigencies of parturition also ])resent conditions in which a rupture becomes a source of danger; and the desirability of a radical cure is further increased by the greater difficulty of getting a steady and unshifting bearing for the truss-pad, since the movements of the thigh are more felt in erural than in inguinal hernia.