970 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. where it points. In either of these ways a non-congenital fistula may he formed, cpiite independently, as it would seem, of any mechanical obstruction at the neck of the bladder or in the urethra. In Dr. Cadell’s case, the fistula was direct, complete, and unassociated with abscess; hut non-congenital, and urinary. "W^hen an abscess occurs after the obliteration of the vesical end of the urachus, and opens at the umbilicus, the resulting fistula is non-congenital, and may or may not be complete or uri- nary, according as there is or is not a coimnunicatioii between the abscess and the bladder. Complicoiions of Urachal Fistula.—Some of the complications are also in part causes, others are results, and others again merely coincident. Of the first set, there are polypus of the bladder, urethral calculus, phimosis, con- genital stricture, and everything which prevents the free discharge of urine by the natural passage. That these, though efficient, are only in part causes, is clear; as there must be also an imperfect closure of the urachus to permit of a true urachal fistula. AVhen this patenc}’ does not exist, the bladder, ureters, and kidneys may all become sacculated, but without any tendency being shown to dilatation or re-opening of the urachus. This is proved by cases of congenital hydro-nephrosis. A remarkable complication or result of fistula was witnessed in Paget’s adult patient: a ring calculus (Fig. 1114) was formed by the deposit of uric acid on a small hair from the })ubes, which had found its way into the bladder through the umbilical opening. Cruveilhier' also met with a calculous concre- tion within the urachus, and he goes on to remark that Iluller and Harder have made similar observations. Boyer^ says that in 1787 he dissected the bladder of a man aged 26, wliose urachus formed a canal an inch and a half long, and contained twelve urinary calculi as large as millet- seeds, one being larger and resembling a grain of barley. Fig. 1114. Ringealcnlns extracted through a urachal fistula. (T. Paget.) Though a fistula did not exist in this case, there was here a very sufficient exciting cause of abscess or ulcera- tion, which might easily have resulted in a fistula. Luschka^ has sua:2:ested that the cells of the linino' mu- cous membrane of the urachus may occasionally be developed into cysts and need surgical interference; he does not, however, record any case of the sort. Prognosis.—When the fistula is congenital, and caused by some obstruction to the outflow of the urine, the prognosis is unfavorable, as death from renal disease is likely to result, unless the source of the obstruction be I’ernovable, like phimosis or urethral calculus. When the fistula is non-congenital, and follows cystitis or abscess, the healtli of the patient will have been greatly destroyed, in all probability, before the fistula is established, and death will occur subsequently from exhaustion, cystitis, oi' pyelo-nephritis. In cases of simple patency of the urachus, without urinary obstruction, there is no reason why life should be interfered with, though the comfort of the individual necessarily is so. Treatment.—There are two clear indications, namely: (1) to remove any source of obstruction to the natural discharge of urine, and (2) to close the fistula when there is nothing (like e^^stitis, or obstruction) to require it to be ke})t open. When phimosis exists circumcision should be ] )ei’formed, as in a case recorded by Dr. J. J. Charles,^ of Belfast. When a calculus is present it must of course be removed. If cystitis exists, dilatation of the urethra in the female, and ' Op. cit., p. 592. 2 Op. p. 477. 3 Virchow’s Archiv, Baud xxiii. Heft. 1 uud 2, S. 1. * British Med. Journal, October 16, 1875.