206 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP TEE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. The presence of a foreign substance remaining in the ball, after penetration, increases tlie gravity of the ease more or less, according to its nature, size, greater or less roughness, and especially its position. A small, smooth body may become encysted in the vitreous, and remain harmless. Indeed, this may occur, but rarely, when it is in the iris, retina, or choroid. In such in- stances its presence is nearly always resented, and it keeps up endless trouble and never-ceasing danger to the other eye. When fixed in or near the ciliary region—the most usual place—there is certainty of trouble sooner or later, and great danger of s^unpathetic ophthalmia. It is in the lens, perhaps, that extraneous bodies are longest tolerated, after producing cataract. But even- tually they may escape from the lens and produce violent and destructive reaction:— A man while opening a keg of paint, in April, 1875, with a hammer and chisel, felt something strike his brow’, bringing a drop of blood; at the same moment a stinging sensation was noticed in the eye. There was no pain following the accident, and he insisted that the sight remained perfectly good until three w'eeks before I saw him, which was over a year. At that time, May 22, 1876, he could only count fingers at 3-^ feet. There was cataract, but without complete opacity. Deep in the lens w’as seen a shiny, small piece of metal. In the anterior capsule w’as a visible wound, with a tuft of lens- substance protruding through it into the aqueous, and undergoing absorption. In the cornea, a small scar was found where the metal had entered. The patient called to con- sult me about the failing sight. I advised him to w’ait a few weeks, as he w’as suffering no pain. There were no urgent symptoms. I believed that the absorption through the rent in the capsule would go on, and that eventually the foreign body would come for- ward and be more easily and certainly removed with the lens. Before long he returned, having sutfered intense pain for the previous ten days. The foreign body had come for- w'ard, out of the lens, and had fallen into the anterior chamber. It was very small, but distinctly visible, lying in the lower rim of the anterior chamber. The patient having been etherized, I made a careful incision at the sclero-corneal junction close in front of the offending substance. The corresponding part of the iris was then drawn out and snipped off, bringing with it the piece of metal. It was not larger than half a pin’s head. I had another case under observation, where a piece of metal, of much larger size and of crescentic shape, had jienetrated the lens some years before, and still remained there—the whole opaque lens-substance having become liquid. The foreign body moved freely around in the closed capsule, according to the position of the head, always gravitating to the most dependent part. No doubt the fluid lens-substance was grad- ually absorbed, and the capsule closed in moi’e and more on the foreign body, limiting its excursions. It pi’obably cut through the capsule and ultimately fell into the aqueous chamber. The patient suffered no inconvenience from it, except the blindness. Some years since, a young man was brought to me suffering severely from an eye that had been injured, ten days previously, by the explosion of a mineral-water bottle, which he had been holding in his hand. He felt a sharp sting in the eye, followed by bleeding. For the next twenty-four hours he did not suffer much, and could see large objects. Severe pain then set in ; sight was extinguished, aiid he came to me in that condition. There was a cicatrix in the lower lid, about a quarter of an inch long, just below the margin, and occupying its entire thickness. In the lower part of the sclerotic, through the ciliary region, exactly corresponding to the scar in the lid, was a penetrating wound a quarter of an inch long, with two little radiating branches. The pupil was largely dilated, and the fundus of the eye showing a marked yellowish reflex, indicating exten- sive suppurative choroiditis. I felt very confident that a large piece of glass was in the eye, but the turbidness of the vitreous prevented my seeing it. Enucleation was per- formed. There w’as extensive suppuration in the vitreous, extending from the sclerotic wound across the ciliary body, with neuro-retinitis in a most intense form. The optic disc was greatly swollen, completely obscuring the vessels, and presenting the charac- teristic appearances of neuritis; but no foreign body was found in the eye. A long, slender, wedge-shaped piece of the bottle had passed through the lid, deep into the eyeball, and had then rebounded.