WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 581 the wounded vessel. The hissing, sucking, or wliistling sound, as it has been variously described, is quite peculiar and distinctive, while the sudden blanching of the face and tumultuous action of the heart which follow, hut too surely indicate what has occurred. Such an occurrence may follow wounds of any of the great veins in the “ dangerous region” at the root of the neck, but it has been most often seen in the jugular, subclavian, and axillary veins. A large opening is not necessary. Erichsen* relates a case in which entrance of air took place, and Avas followed by death, during the passage of a seton into the forepart of the neck, and Le Gros Clark has shoAvn that the air may be so slowly draAvn in by the orifice of a half-divided, small A’ein, as not to evidence itself at the Avound by the usual signs.^ In narroAV Avounds, Avhere the opening in the vein and that in the soft parts have lost their par- allelism, the neck may be extensively inhltrated. Pressure should in all such accidents be at once a})plied, till the A^ein is tied above and below the Avound. It is better to tie the A^essel completely, even though its calibre be but partially divided, rather than pick u}> the orifice alone in the hope of not obstructing the A^essel, as Avas at one time recom- mended. In an elaborate study of the subject. Professor S. W. Gross lias Avith his usual ability dealt Avith these lesions of the great veins.^ When the thyroid body is Avounded the bleeding may be very profuse, and difficult to arrest from the very free anastomosis Avhicli exists betAveen its vessels. Both arteries and veins bleed violently, the veins especially, if the respiration is emliarrassed. To tie these vessels is very difficult, and pressure cannot be borne. In some cases it niiglit lie possible to pass a needle under the bleeding point and a})ply the tAvisted suture. The various nerves of the neck, especially those connected Avith the arm, may be involved in Avonnds. Bullets haA^e frequently injured the cervical nerves, and paralysis Avith Avasting has folloAved. The pneuniogastric and l>lirenic nerves may also be cut, when the carotids are divided, and bullets have occasionally injured both these nerves as Avell as the sympathetic, though fcAv such cases have lieen described in detail. The most common position for suicidal and homicidal Avounds has been made the subject of statistical inquiry. They have been most commonly seen at or about the thyro-hyoid membrane, or a little beloAv it.^ In assaults, the chin being depressed has protected the upper part of the throat. Gunshot Avounds may, hoAveA^er, occur anyAvhere, and [lortions of the throat may be in tliem even torn aAvay. Wounds in the supra-hyoid region may open the cavity of the mouth, wound the root of the tongue, and partially or even Avholly detach the epiglottis. 8ulfocation may be caused by the entrance of blood or other matters into the air-i>assage, or by the epiglottis or the tongue occluding its orifice. Swelling and mdema, Avhich usually follow, may also occasion danger. The facial and lingual arteries A\fith the hypoglossal and other nerves, may be injured in such high Avounds, and fatal bleeding may folloAV if efficient surgical aid cannot be obtained. These vessels can, hoAA^ever, be readily ligatui’ed. In Avourids loAver doAvn, besides the Avindpipe, the ary- tenoid cartilages and vocal cords, and the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, may be involved, Avith the lingual and superior thyroid arteries, the superior laryn- geal nerves, and even the carotids. ' Science and Art of Surgery, 5th ed., vol. i. p. 418. 2 Lectures on tlie Principles of Surgical Diagnosis, etc., p. 225. London, 1870. 3 Atrierican .Journal of the Medical Sciences, 1807. * Durham, in Holmes’s System of Surgery, gives a summary of 158 unselected cases, from which it would appear that 45 of the wounds were through the thyro-hyoid memhrane, .35 through the thyroid cartilage, 26 through the crico-thyroid memhrane or cricoid cartilage, 41 into the trachea, aiidonly 11 above the hyoid hone, llorteloup ami Sarazin have also j>uhlished statistics upon this point, but the teaching from these figures is of little moment.