1065 CYSTS OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA, Nine montlis from the time of the acute illness with which the disease began, the diarrhcea returned, with subsidence of the swelling and relief of the pain. This lasted two days, and then the tumor filled somewhat suddenly again. In ten days, the diarrhoea returned with copious vomiting, much dark, grumous blood being ejected both from the stomach and bowels. The tumors became flaccid and non-fluctuating, though still per- ceptible. The patient became extremely emaciated, and within less than ten months from the original seizure, died quite suddenly, with all the symptoms of internal hemorrhage. At the post-mortem examination there was found to be no peritonitis. The smaller curvature of the stomach, and what remained of the pancreas, were bound down tightly by adhesions to the spine, and these firm adhesions extended by the sfdeen and left kidney to the left iliac fossa. By these adhesions, a canal was formed, in which was the diseased pancreas, consisting, apparently, of a long cystic tube, extending from the duodenum to the left hypochondrium, and fully six inches in length. Behind the descending colon it became a cavity, the size of the fist, containing throughout a dark grumous fluid, like decomposed blood. The walls of the cyst were of cartilaginous liardness. There was, also, recent blood extravasated within the cyst. The tumor was adherent to the colon, and this part of the gut was soft and disorganized, but not ulcerated. The left kidney was softened and disorganized, but contained no calculus. The spleen was small, soft, and black. The left pleura contained much serum ; the left lung was collapsed. The other organs were iiealthy, but wasted. Treatment.—In the earlier stages the diagnosis must he uncertain, and nothing except the relief of prominent and distressing symptoms will he possible. For the amelioration of gastric irritability, sickness, and pain, freshly made whey, holding small cpiantities of soda in solution, has been found useful in counteracting the acrid gastric secretions to which the patients seem liable. In certain cases when the tumor is evident, an explo- ratory incision should be made, and the cyst either emptied by an aspirating trocar and its walls stitched to the parietes, or the cyst itself extirpatecl bodily. Kulenkamptf, of Bremen, has recently evacuated a litre of Buid from a pancreatic cyst, the walls of which he had previously united to the parietal peritoneum. A drain was kept in for a time, and a temporary fistulous opening resulted; but it ultimately closed within a few weeks. Thiersch has treated a cyst of spontaneous origin in the same way, letting out three litres of chocolate-colored fiuid ; but in his case a fistula remained. Pancreatic cysts have within quite recent years been removed by o})eration. Rokitansky, of Vienna, and Bozeman, of New York, have each performed the operation, Init each under the impression that the tumor was ovarian. Rokitansky was not able to complete the extirpation, in his case, on account of adhesions to the omentum, stomach, and transverse colon. The patient nearly died on the table, hut rallied and lived until the tentli day. Boze- man’s patient was forty-one years old, and the disease had been observed five years before the operation. The pedicle of the cyst was three-quarters of an inch long, and was attached to the tail of the pancreas; it was ligatured liefore the cyst was cut away. The patient completely recovered.^ [Another successful case, with persisting fistula, however, is attributed to Gussenbauer," and a fatal case, in which intestinal obstruction was caused h}^ an abscess of the pancreas, to Rosenbach.^j Cysts of the Mesentery, Omentum, and Peritoneum.—Simple cysts of the mesentery are occasionally met with, but they are rare. In their early stages they are dilRcidt to diagnose, and in their later stages they are likely to be mistaken for ovarian cysts. This is the case witli all or at least most intra-ahdominal cysts of simple or serous cliaracter, as well as with others of • Am. Journ. Med. Sciences, April, 1882, p. 572. ^ Med. News, April 28, 1883. * Cxaz. M6d. de Strasbourg ; and Med. News, Sept. 30, 1882, and Feb. 3, 1883.