TUBERCULAR AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS. 835 if these nerves be sought for and pressed upon, as they issue from the thorax, the slightest pressure will induce acute pain, sometimes confined to a single branch distributed to the indurated part, while the rest are unafiected.”^ 4. The general condition and temperament of the patient are often siguifi- cant. 5. Under treatment the symptoms Avill be relieved in the majority of C3iS63. Should the diagnosis of this affection be doubtful, the best means of determining its nature is to make a small incision, Avith antiseptic precau- tions, into the hard part, and if necessary remove a small portion for micro- scopic examination. It is so important that an accurate diagnosis should be made, not only in connection with the treatment of the disease, but in order to relieve the mind of the patient, that I woTild urge this proceeding in all doubtful cases. If the case be one of simple induration, the incision will probably do good, and if it should turn out to be one of morbid growth, an operation for the removal of the disease will be recommended Avith more confidence. The treat- ment of this affection consists in attention to the general health and restora- tion of any disordered functions, encouragement of the patient liy an assurance that the disease is simple in its nature, and the local application of bella- donna, a lotion of acetate of lead, or other soothing remedy. If the indu- ration is well marked and the soothing means do not succeed in relieving it, counter-irritation and pressure should be tried, and if the condition still persists and is causing severe symptoms, a free incision into the SAvelling Avill be the most likely means of effecting a cure. When the hardness and symptoms continue severe, and Avhen the patient is middle-aged, or older, excision of the swelling Avould bo wise; for such a continued local irritation may undoubtedly develop some form of epithelial cancer. Tubercular and Syphilitic Affections. The breasts may become involved in connection Avith tuhcrcvlar affections of the cellular tissue, lymphatic glands, or bones in theii' neigldiorliood, and thickening, ulceration, or abscess of their glandular structure may result. Ueposit of tubercle occasionally takes place in the gland itself, as has been described by Velpeau ; and such a deposit causes etdargement of the breast or of a portion of it, and this may or may not be folloAved by the characteristic suppuration and destruction of tissue. Such an affection requires the general and local treatment Avhich is found most useful in tubei’culosis. SyphUitic affections of the skin, cellular tissue, periosteum, and hone in the neighborhood of the breasts, may involve tliose organs, and cases of syphilitic enlargement of the breasts themselves have lieen recorded by Dr. C. Arnbrosoli.'^ This form of enlargement consists in a more or less general hypertrophy of the gland, Avith uniform induration of its tissues. The affection occurs in syphilitic patients, sometimes attacking both breasts, sometimes only one, usually at the end of the secondary or at the commence- ment of the tertiary period. The characteristics of this syphilitic enlarge- ment are, that the hardness is uniform, smooth, and not very painful, and that it yields to antisyphilitic treatment. 3''hc use of iodide of potassium internally, and, if this fails, of mercury in small doses, together Avith gentle counter-irritation and pressure, constitutes the treatment of these cases. 1 Hfilmes, Principles and Practice of Surgery, p. 825. 2 Ranking’s Half-yearly Abstract, vol. xlii., 1805.