779 MOTOR DISTURBANCES OF THE INTRINSIC LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. laryngoscopic illumination is essential to a correct appreciation of these con- ditions. Voice and respiration are the processes wliose function is most interfered Avith. Impairments of Amice may be dismissed from extended sur2;ical comment, but impairments in respiration demand special elucidation. Voice and respiration require maintenance of the integrity of the chink of the glottis in both directions. When the chink cannot be properly closed, the voice is impaired ; Avhen it cannot be properly opened, respiration sutlers. Hence it is Avith palsies of the muscles by Avhich the chink of the glottis is opened that surgery is most closely associated, Avhether the loss of power be due to spasm of antagonizing muscles, to paralysis of the inacti\m muscles, to their atrophy, to their infiltration by infiammatory products, or to their re- straint by immobility of the articulations whose movements are ordinarily under their control. Spasm.—Spasm of the dilating muscles of the larynx, an infrequent phe- nomenon, possesses the merely negative sui’gical interest comprised in laryn- goscopic assurance that the attending aphonia is not due to disease requiring surgical treatment. Spasm of the constricting muscles of the larynx is a much more frequent and much more serious disorder, for should the spasm fail to relax, death by suffocative apnoea is inevitable. It is of neuropathic origin, occasionally direct, much more fre(|uently refiex. The spasm is far most frequent in the muscles Avhich bring the \mcal bands in contact; but it sometimes occurs in those Avhicli bring the A^entricular bands in contact, and in those Avhieh bring the epiglottis doAvn over the glottis. These spasms produce similar symptoms, most pronounced in the first A^ariety; phonal stridor in inspiration, similar to that observed in acute laryngitis, in croup, in Avhooping-cough, and Avhen a foreign liody is in the larynx. Hence the name laryngismus stridulus given to the disorder. It is sometimes choreic in character. It is far the more fre- quent in children, especially in scrofulous and rickety subjects, usually during tlie period of tbe first dentition, and chiefly among those Aveaned too early, and thereby subjected to gastro-intestinal disorders. It is sometimes fatal, occasionally even in the iieAV-born liabe.^ Spasmodic constriction of the ventricular Ijands is unusual, but exanqdes are seen in sufiicient numbers to make it a subject of remark. It is impossible to decide Avhether it exists unassociated Avitb spasm of the Amcal bands. Spasmodic depression of the epiglottis occurs both in adults and in children. In tAvo published instances^ noted by myself, children haA'e died from incarceration of the epiglottis in the cavity of the larynx, so that tlie belief may be entertained that laryngismus ati'ecting tlie vocal bands may lie associated, at times, Avith spasm of the muscles (aryteno-epiglottic) Avliich depress tlie epiglottis. Having Avitnessed the same spasm of the aryteno-epiglottic muscles in adults, and having been able to insure the patients comparative safety from its unpleasant conse- quences by teaching them, Avith their oavu fingers, hoAv to release the impacted epiglottis, the inference has folloAved that sudden suttbcation at table is some- times due to impaction of the epiglottis, an o[)inion Avhich Avas long before expressed, hoAvever, by M. de la Ilarpe.^ Altliough usually due in cbildren to reflex irritation of the trifacial nerve in dentition, of tbe pneurnogastric in nutrition, or of the sympathetic and spinal nerves in gastro-intestinal disturbances, yet direct irritation of the pneumo- gastric or spinal accessory by pressure of enlarged bronchial glands, direct irritation of the meninges liy caries of the uppermost cervical vertebra, or of ' Miller, Brit. Med. .Jour., Nov. 17, 1877, p. 698. ^ Op. cit., p. 626. ® Scliweiz. Zeitsclirift fur Medizin, u. s. w., Nr. 3, 1849 ; cited by Fischer (op. cit., S. 103).