INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN, 1064 Any part of the pancreas may be the seat of the cyst; and thus the tumor may occu})y either the right or the left hypochonclrium, or the epigastrium, or may be below the right lobe of the liver, or between the stomach and spleen, or in front of the spine. The cysts which spring from the middle part of the pancreas are the most likely to be early detected as abdominal tumors, on account of their being pushed forward by the bodies of the verte- bra?. Terminations.—The cyst may rupture into the stomach, duodenum, or colon, into the peritoneum, or behind the peritoneum. Extravasation of blood into the cyst is very likely to happen, and its occurrence is evinced by the chocolate-brown color of the cyst-contents, or by the bright redness of the fluid, if the hemorrhage has been cpiite recent. Sudden death is some- times caused by intra-eystic hemorrhage. Atrophy, fatty degeneration, or inflammatory disorganization of the whole of the pancreas is prone to follow the development and growth of these cysts. i^ymptoms.—The symptoms of pancreatic cysts are very various. Abdo- minal })ain, gastric disturbance, emaciation, and the presence of an abdominal tumor, over the surface of which the tympanites of stomach, duodenum, or colon can be detected, are to be expected. When the cyst is due to distension, there may be jaundice, and fatty stools, with an inordinate appetite, or crav- ing for food. Symptoms such as those last mentioned are brought about by the pressure of an impacted calculus against the common bile-duct, and by the complete obstruction to the flow of pancreatic secretion into the intestine. When the bile-duct, as well as the pancreatic duct, is thus completely obstructed by a pancreatic calculus, the evil consecpiences of the non-digestion of fat are still more marked. The occurrence of jaundice and fatty stools from the lodgment of a calculus in the duodenal end of the duct of Wirsung, should be borne in mind in considering the causes of biliary obstruction. Diabetes mellitus should also be looked for, especially when the cyst springs from the centre of the pancreas, since it is believed that atrophy and destruction of the coeliac plexus may give rise to the presence of sugar in the urine. Such cases do not, in my opinion, lend any color to the theory that diabetes mellitus is in any essential manner the result of morbid changes in the pancreas, but sim- ply show that diabetes may follow if disease in the pancreas leads to second- ary changes in the sympathetic ganglia and plexus. A case recorded by Mr. Parsons,* shows the difficulty in ascertaining the exact cause of every case of pancreatic cyst, and furnishes an interesting example of the mode in which some of them progress and terminate:— A lady, aged sixty, the mother of ten children, had been for many years subject to occasional spasms of the stomach. At length she was seized by a very severe attack of spasm, followed by gastric inflammation, and ending in chronic gastritis. Four months after this acute attack, a tumor was discovered in the epigastrium, the size of a small orange, slightly movable, situated immediately in front of the spine, and be- hind the stomach. For a fortnight the tumor slowly increased, and then suddenly disappeared one night, with the passage of frequent stools of a glairy consistence, dirty-white color, and an odor like saliva. Temporary relief was followed by a return of the tumor, and by symptoms of renal irritation, with much pain and ten- derness in the left lumbar and iliac regions; and after a few weeks a second tumor a[)peared immediately above the anterior superior spinous process of the" ilium, and was plainly continuous with the former tumor—increased tension of the one being pro- duced by pressure on the other. For many weeks no notable change occurred, but the last formed tumor slowly enlarged, and there were great suffering and increasing emaciation and debility. • Brit. Medical Journ., June 6, 1857, p. 475.