620 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. Carcinoma is not as common an affection of the parotid as ivas at one time supposed, when no distinction was drawn between it and sarcoma, enchon- droma, fihro-piastic and other tumors. All forms of carcinoma have been met with here. The clinical characters of such growths have already been referred to. Sarcoma is more common than cai’cinoma, and cannot in many cases be distinguished from it by its history, or physical and vital effects; hut as a rule it does not exert as much pressure, does not involve and destroy the skin in the same way, and does not poison the blood. But sarcoma may show marked local malignancy and return after excision, though as to this we cannot express an opinion till the histological elements of the tumor have been examined. The excision of malignant growths of the pai’otid is beyond our art, and should not be attempted. They insinuate themselves in and around the important structures in their neighborhood, and backwards toward the pharynx, in a way hardly to he recognized before the parts are opened up. Even after death, it has been found impossible to effect a sepa- ration of their prolongations without great destruction of surrounding parts. It has been found impracticable to discover even whether the internal carotid artery, and hypoglossal and other nerves, were not involved, and portions of the growth have been found after death to penetrate the internal jugular vein, without any sign of such a complication having been visible during life, notwithstanding these considerations, it must yet he allowed that cases are recorded in which the excision of a cancerous parotid is said to have been successfully performed. This point, however, will be again alluded to. Pure myxomas are very rare in the parotid. ISTo distinction, which is of much clinical value, can be drawn between them and sarcomatous growths. They are usually softer and more diffuse, that is, less circumscribed, and more apparently fluctuating. The lyinj)hatic glctnds lying in contact with the parotid may enlarge and suppurate, or may assume the characters of lymphadenoma and lympho-sar- coma. In the latter case it is only by the clinical history and progress of the tumor, and by an examination of its histological elements, that its true nature can be recognized. Tumors lying over the parotid will, till they attain a considerable size and anchor themselves more firmly, be much more movable than those found in the gland itself—that is, below the strong sheath which incloses the gland—and it is chiefly by observing this mobility, and their greater diffuseness and less limitation to the area of the parotid, that the true seat of the growth is determined. As to the excision of tumors lying over, or in, the parotid gland—fibrous, cartilaginous, glandular, etc.—it may be said that in many cases the operation is easy enough, though from the size and appearance of the tumor before- hand it may appear very formidable. If, however, there are deep and irregular prolongations of the growth, as when it grows within the capsule of tile parotid, and if these have formed close connections with the bloodvessels and nerves behind and below the angle of the jaw, then no operation can be more difficult or dangerous. Mere size is no contra-indication to an opera- tion. Tumors in this region have been removed successfully, which have masked the whole side of the neck. In many cases the bulk is due to the increase of the tumor being solely in an outward direction. The mobility and circumscription of the growth ; the possibility of inserting the fingers below it, and, as it were, raising it up; the freedom from pressure-effects on bloodvessels and nerves; the healthy state of the skin and the lymphatic glands; the rate and direction of the tumor’s increase, together with the age and state of health of the patient, and tlie possibility of removing the whole mass, Avill chiefly influence the judgment in determining for or against an operation.