APPEARANCES OF MEMBRANA TYMPANI IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. 355 EXPLANATION OF PLATES REPRESENTING APPEARANCES OF MEMBRANA TYMPANI IN HEALTH AND DISEASE.’ PLATE XXIX. Fio-. I represents a view of the normal meinbrana tyinpani (left ear), as seen by the light'^rellected from an unclouded sky in broad daylight. The lighter shade of color observed in the centre of the membrane, around the tip of the handle of the hammer, is due to the reflection of light from that portion of the inner wall of the tympanum which is called the promontory. This area of lighter coloring will vary in extent and intensity according to the distance of the membrane from the promontory, and also according to the degree of transparency of the membrane itself. The color of the remaining portions of the membrane may be described as a neutral gray. The handle of the hammer begins on the left-hand side of the figure, above the middle line, as a whitish-yellow knob, the “short process,” and terminates at or near the centre (or “umbo”) of the membrane. The so-called “bright spot” extends from this central point almost to the perii)hery of the membrane, a little in front (that is, to tlie left) of the median line of the figure. In shape it is a M’ell-defined triangle, wliose base corresponds witli the periphery of the membrane. It is produced by the reflection of light from a polished surface, and whatevei’ other significance it may have, it certainly furnishes a valuable criterion by which we may judge of the state of nutrition of the membrane. Fig. 2 represents a normal membrana. tympani belonging to the right ear. The more solid tissues which fill the gaj) between the neck of the hammer and the spina tympanica posterior, and which are commonly known as the “posterior fold,” are re- presented here. They begin at the “short process,” and run backward (that is, to the left) in the shape of a sickle, along the u[)per boundary of the membrane. The halo- like reflection from the promontory is less marke<l than in Fig. 1, and the bright spot <loes not extend quite to the peripliery of the membrane. In tlie case from wliich Fig. 3 was taken, an oil lamp was used for illuminating pur- poses. Hence the reddish-yellow hue of the membrane. The delicate red line which forms the posterior limit of the handle of the hammer, represents a congested condition of what are technically known as the “ manubrial vessels.” Tliese vessels, which are considerably larger than any of those which traverse the membrane jiroper, are tlie first to respond to any irritation of the adjacent auditory canal, or to show the effect of pressure (such as a speculum is apt to produce) upon the efterent veins of this part of the ear. It will also be noticed that the “bright s[)Ot” is interrupted midway be- tween the “umbo” and the periphery of the membrane. The membrane pictured in Fig. 4 is classed by Prof. Politzer with the three which ))recede it, as a normal, but unusually transparent, memlirana tympani. The triangular figure seen to the left of the handle of the hammer is made up in part of the lower portion of the long process of the anvil (the whitish line which runs in a direction parallel with that of the handle of the hammer), and in part of the posterior arm or limb of the stirrup (the more delicate whitish line which runs in a direction continuous ' These illustrations are copied, hy permission, from the admirable colored plates drawn by I’rof. Adam Politzer, of Vienna, and published in liis well-known work “ Die Beleuclitungsbilder des Trommelfells im gesunden und kranken Zustande” (Wien, 1865).