692 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. unless very adlierent, can usually be detaclied by cougb, and ■when coug'b fails, by douching. But ulceration does not occur in simple catarrlial laryngitis, and even erosions are unusual. I’aresis of some of the muscles ■wliicb close the glottis will often be recognized, either by gaping of the entire chink, or by gaping of its inter-arytenoidal extremity. Idie paresis is due to intermuscular infiltration and not to disease of the nerve tracts. Should the laryngitis be severe, oedema of the larynx (discussed at page 64T) may ensue. The si/mjytoms are, in mild eases, pain, cough, and impairment of voice, ■without special pyrexia. In severe cases phenomena of fever are present, and difficulty in deglutition and in respiration may becomed added to the symptoms mentioned, themselves much more aggravated. The diagnosis rests upon the subjective group of symptoms enumerated above, and the objective manifestations noted in the laryngoscopic image. Thepro_^/?osfs is favorable in mild idiopathic cases of diffuse laryngitis. It is favorable even in severe cases, if subjected to systematic laryngoscopic supervision. Neglected, such cases sometimes terminate fatally by suffo- cation for want of proper surgical interference. In deuteropatbic cases, the prognosis depends largely on the disease of which the laryngitis is an epi- phenomenon, but is rarely as favorable as in the idiopathic affection, erysi- pelatous laiyngitis being of especially grave augmy. In traumatic cases, the prognosis is favorable only when the injury has been unimportant. In all instances, acute laryngitis, unless skilfully bandied, is liable to be followed by permanent malnutrition of the mucous membrane, rendering it liable to recurrence of subacute if not of acute inflammation, repetitions of which often merge gradually into chronic laryngitis. Chronic laryngitis thus in- duced, especially in persons with constitutions otherwise impaired, may, if neglected, terminate in ulceration. This opinion, however, is not shared by the profession generally; yet even chondritis and necrosis may follow acute idiopathic laryngitis. Sometimes, too, morbid growths become developed in immediate secpience to idiopathic laryngitis; while myopathic palsies of the vocal bands are occasional relics of the inflammatory processes. In the already unhealthy subject, acute superficial laryngitis may be suc- ceeded by abscesses, intra-laryngeal or peri-laryngeal. Circumscribed laryngitis, being usually indicative of inherent or accpiired cachexia, requires a much more guarded prognosis than the diffuse variefy. Treatment.—Whether mild or severe, small doses of mercuric chloride, in frequent repetition, seem to produce a decidedly beneficial effect on inflam- mations of the laryngeal mucous membrane, as upon the mucous membranes everywhere. Mild cases may be judiciously treated by the administration of an effective aperient, by restriction from butcher’s meat, and by tbe continuous application of cold to the neck, whether by wet compresses, by bags of ice or of iced water, or by coils of rubber or of metallic tubing. Severe cases may require, in addition, leeching at the supra-sternal notch, and the systematic administration of salines, or even of antimonials, with still greater restriction in variety of diet. The food should be semi-solid, so as to guard the laiynx from local irritation in swallowing. Inhalations of the vapor from steaming water impregnated with benzoin, creasote, or oil of pine, or with chamomile, sage, or tlie like, often afford great relief. Astringent sprays, unless quite weak, are not likely to be useful, and direct intra-laryngeal mopping is apt to be actually injurious. The accompanying pyrexia is perhaps best treated by minute doses of aconite at short intervals, until the pulse has become sensibly affected, and then at intervals sufficient to maintain the effect. Rest of the part and of the entire body, is indicated in all instances. Cases dependent upon dyscrasi^e require appropriate constitutional medication. Cases attended