690 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. Strictures sometimes require external operations to restore the calibre of the canal. Thus in a case of traumatic stricture, after suicidal wound, in Fig. ]n.')3. McSherry’s modification of Stoerk’s dilator for laryngeal stenosis. which the cricoid cartilage and part of the thyroid were divided to ascer- tain the cause of the constriction, Mr. Henry Lee^ found the posterior part of the upper tracheal ring approximated to within a quarter of an inch of the cricoid cartilage. He removed the ring in great part with scissors, and introduced a canulawith the inner opening upward, to prevent recontraction. In a somewhat similar case. Prof. Ashhurst, of Philadelphia, dissected off some dense cicatricial tissue, and then removed a portion of the displaced cricoid cartilage with scissors, to overcome a stenosis at the junction of the thyroid and cricoid.^ Resection of the larynx is sometimes performed,^ a portion of the anterior cartilaginous wall being removed to afford room for a X-shaped canula, which is retained in position until cicatrization has taken jilace. Some surgeons deem this procedure preferable to attempts at dilata- tion. Laryngitis. Laryngitis^ inffammation of the larynx, is the term in general use to designate superficial inflammation of the mucous membrane of the interior of the larynx—simple or catarrhal laryngitis. When loss of tissue takes place, as occurs under certain systemic conditions, notabl}- tuberculosis and syphilis, the affection is termed nlcerative laryngitis. ISvbmucous laryngitis, matous laryngitis (Mandl), is a deeper-seated infianiination, involving the sub- mucous connective tissue in addition, and sometimes other tissues also, such as the glands, muscles, and cartilages. Suppurative infiammation of the sub- ' Med. Times and Gaz., May 16,1874, p. 548 ; Trans. Clin. Society, vol. vii., London, 1874; Am. Jour. Med. Sci., July, 1875, p. 175. 2 Med. and Surg. Rep., Aug. 14, 1880, p. 142. 8 Reyliei-, Arch. f. kliii. Cliir., Bd. xix. S. 334; Heine, ibid., S. 514 ; Bruns, Berlin, med. Woch., Nos. 38, 39. 1880; Archives of Laryngology, p. 393. 1880.