454 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. from the forearm, and by diminishing the time during which the head and arm are kept in contact; but even with these modifications, it is so tedious and irksome that it is seldom employed at the present day, though it has been occasionally adopted, and with success, as bj- Sir William MacCormac, and by Dr. Stokes, of Dublin. In order to provide a bony support for the new nose. Dr. Hardie, of Manchester, in the case of a young girl, transplanted the ungual phalanx of one of her fingei’s, keeping his patient’s arm fastened up to her face for no less than three months. The Indian method, which is that now commonly adopted, was introduced into England by Mr. Carpue, in 1816.^ By this method the nose is made from a flap taken from the forehead, supplemented if necessary by a columna derived from the upper lip. As ordinarily performed, the operation may be divided into tliree stages. In the. first stage, a flap of proper size and shape is cut from the skin of the forehead, and attached in the position which it is meant to occupy. A piece of thin gutta-percha or card-board is first modelled to the form and dimen- sions of the wished-for organ, and is then flattened out and laid upon the forehead as a guide for the future incisions. The flap may be taken from the centre of the forehead, or from either side, as may be thought most con- venient. As the flap is sure to shrink after it is detached, it is a good rule to allow a margin of one-fourth of an inch on all sides of the pattern, and the lines of incision should be carefully marked with a dark crayon, or with tincture of iodine. The error is sometimes committed of making the flap needlessly large, and I have known of cases in which the new nose has by its prodigious bulk been a source of cpiite as much mortification to the patient as his previous lack. Hence the importance of carefully outlining the form of the needed part, and of not allowing more than the quarter-inch margin which has been directed. Should the patient have an unusually high forehead, the central portion of the flap may be prolonged in order to furnish a columna, but under other circumstances this part of the operation is better left for a sub- secpient occasion. I may add that Prof. Bennett, of Dublin, advises against the formation of a columna altogether, finding that the contraction of the deep surface of the flap leaves an orifice none too large for the admission of air, and that the overhanging of the middle lobe of the flap prevents any deformity. In raising the frontal flap the incision is begun at the root, which is made long, so that its circulation may not be interfered Avith Avhen it is tAvisted ; the incision is usually ]^)rolonged further on one side than on the other, so that the root may be tAvisted more I’eadily. All the soft tissues of the fore- head should be embraced in the flap, and it has even been recommended that the periosteum should be likeAvise included, in hope that by its osteogenetic poAver bone might be developed in the transplanted tissue. Such a result, liOAveA^er, Avouhl not be very likely to ensue, nor, if it did occur, Avould it be of much benefit to the patient, Avhile liy depriving the frontal bone of its periosteum, some risk is entailed of necrosis. Wlien the fla}i has been formed, it is temporarily re[>laced OA^er a piece of Avet lint, Avhile the stump of the old nose is prepared for its reception. This is done by freshening its edges, dissecting up the skin in such a Avay as to make a groove to receiA-e the flap, Avhich"should itself liaA^e its edges bevelled so as to provide tAvo raAV surfaces. All bleeding having l)een arrested—if possible Avithout using any ' Account of Operations for restoring a Lost Nose from the Integuments of the Forehead, etc. London, 1816.