119 DISEASES OF THE SCALP. papillomata elsewhere. It was absolutely devoid of hair, and had the usual cauliflower aspect. As the hair had always been combed over the mass, its surface was flatter than is usual in these growths. The treatment should be the same as that for papillomata in other situations. Sarcoma of the scalp is occasionally met Avith, although more usually the disease commences in the bone or in the dura mater (“ fungus”). It appears to be usually of the spindle-celled variety, and to present the usual signs that distinguish sarcomatous growths elsewhere. Neither the diagnosis nor the ^ treatment calls for any especial notice in this place. Carcinoma usually assumes the form of epithelioma.^ MM. Follin and Duplay^ state that a malignant growth may appear in the deeper parts of the scalp having all the characters of scirrhus. Solid Congenital Tumors.—In addition to the congenital dermoid cysts, cer- tain solid congenital tumors are sometimes met with in the scalp. They are, as a rule, deeply seated, and adherent to the pericranium. In a case of Mr. Thomas Smith’s, cpioted by Ilolmes,^ the tumor was 2 inches by 1 inch in size, and was lobulated, hard, and purely fibrous in structure. Some of the less superficial tumors contain cysts, while those nearer the surface are quite solid. These growths appear to have the same general structure as have like congenital tumors elsewhere. Pneumatocele.—This term is applied to tumors formed by a collection of air beneath the pericranium, and due to a spontaneous perforation of the mastoid cells, or of the frontal sinus. To appreciate its exact nature, it is necessary to exclude from consideration all emphysematous tumors of the scalp. Emphysema of the scalp may occur in connection Avith a more general em- physema of the cellular tissue of the body, or may be due to tlie decomposi- tion of retained inflammatory products. Localized emphysematous tumors may also be due to fractures of the frontal, nasal, or ethmoid bones, and, also, according to Leduard,^ to a fracture of the temporal bone—in any such case a cavity containing air being opened up. Such tumors may also be due to necrosis of the frontal Ijone (Warren,® Duverney®), or to like disease in the mastoid process (Prescott IIcAvetP). These tumors must not be confused with pneumatocele. Only ten cases of pneumatocele have been put on recordof tliis number, nine occurred in the mastoid region, and are stated to have been due to opening up of the mastoid cells, and only one has been met Avitli in the frontal region.® Hine of the ten cases occurred in males. The average age of the patients Avasabout thirty, the youngest being eighteen,^® the oldest forty-seven.” Symptoms.—-When in the mastoid region, the tumor is situated behind the ear, although in Balassa’s case it first appeared in the temporal region. Jar- javay’s case Avas situated at the outer border of tbe orbit. Ibieumatocele begins as a small, hard, rounded tumor, of regular outline, and covered by ' See page 116 supra. 2 Qp. cit., tome iii. p. 570. 3 Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases, p. 28. 1868. Quoted by Ileineke, op. cit., S. 10. ® .1. M. Warren, Surgical Observations, chapter xiii. Boston, 1867. ® Quoted by Ileineke, loc. cit., S. 15. ’ Lectures on Diseases and Injuries of the Head. Med. Times and Gaz.,voI. ii. p. 106. 1855. ® An excellent abstract of all these cases will be found in Heineke’s monograph, S. 11 u. folg. See, also, Costes, Moniteur des Ilopitaux, tome vii. Nos. 21-24. 1859 ; Louis Thomas, Du Pneu- matocele du Crane. These de Paris, 1865 ; and M. Gayraud, Art. Crane, Diet. Encyc. des Sci. Med. 1879. ® .Jarjavay’s Case, Compendium de Chir. praticjue, t. iii. ]>. 100. Balassa, Tumeur Empli. du Crane. Revue Med.-Chir., 1854. *' Voison, Du Pneumatocele du Crane. These de Paris, 1860.