275 DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. the lid in place, till the spasm ceases. Various surgical operations, combined Avith excisions of skin from the lower lid, are practised for its permanent relief. In all operations for entropium, Avhere a sacrilice of skin is thought advisable, great care must be taken to avoid excess. It is always easy to remove a little more integument, at another time, if needed. In people of advanced years with great relaxation and excess of skin folds, a freer excision may be risked. An actual ectropium, or imperfect closure of the lids, or both, after an operation for inversion, is always to be guarded against. Prudent foresight, here as everywhere else, may save the patient’s temper and the sur- geon’s remorse. Caxthoplasty.—The operation of canthoplasty is practised for opposite purposes in different cases. In one it is done to enlarge the too small com- missure; in the other to secure its diminution. The latter operation has already been described. The first step in securing increased space is to divide the outer angle with stout scissors or a bistoury. Profuse hemorrhage, in this operation, cannot be avoided, and is a great hindrance. The incision must be in the direct line of the canthus, and should usually extend to the bony orbit. Firm pressure Avith a sponge Avill, in a feAv minutes, control the bleeding, so that the other steps may be executed. The divided corner should lie forced Avidely open by an assistant, everting it as much as possible. The conjunctiva is then seized by the forceps, gently raised, and loosened from its connections with the points of the scissors. This causes it to slide easily, and to cover the raAV edges better. Then theconjunctiA^aand skin are to be stitched together. The first suture is applied exactly in the angle. Taa"0 others usually suffice, one above and the other beloAAL Great care must be taken to secure perfect coaptation. Thus the raAV edges are kept from readhering. Cold dressings are applied, and in about thirty-six or forty-eight hours the threads may be removed very cautiously. The proper execution of this bloody operation secures freer eversion of the lids, and valuable space. It may often be com- bined with an entropium operation, and the degree of freedom secured may be regulated by the extent of the incision. Ectropium.—Ectropium is an eversion of the eyelid, preventing perfect coap- tation. It is seen in various degrees, due to various causes. The most serious and frightful cases are those resulting from deep and extensive burns of the face. Scars from Avounds of the lids and adjacent parts, from ulceration in skin- diseases, from abscesses and sloughing during facial erysipelas, and from caries of the bony orbit, are all very likely to be folloAved by this deformity. Chronic blepharitis, Avitli loss of eyelashes and contraction of the skin, trom chafing caused by eA^ersion of the puncta and constant Aveepiug, is a common source of ti’oublesome eversion. Then the chronic forms of conjunctivitis Avith SAvelling and hj^Aertrophy, lead to constantly increasing ectropium. As the edges of the lids become thickened and relaxed, Avith the marginal fibres of the orbicularis muscle, the bundles over the orbital edges of the tarsi con- tract spasmodically, and intensify the displacement. AV)scess of the orbit Avith pi’otrusion of the eye, and extreme exophthalmus in BasedoAv’s disease, are sure to be complicated by inflammatory ectropium. This trouble is much more frequent in the loAver than the upper lid, but not so disastrous to the eye. The Aveeping from displacement of tlie punctum, especially the loAver one, the constant exposure of the evei’ted mucous membrane to irritating causes, and the AA^ant of protection to the eyeball, all contribute to increase the deformity and its dangers. In facial paralysis, the SAvagging of the loAA^er lid sometimes results in total eversion and great annoyance. The paralysis of the fibres of the orbicularis of the loAver lid, and the relaxed condition of the