586 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. Abscesses of the ISTeck. Abscesses of the neck of various kinds (acute and chronic, circumscribed and diffuse, superficial and deep) are common from the large amount of cellular tissue present iu its structure.‘ Abscesses may be due to many causes, such as injuries and diseases in the soft parts, or bones, or glands; affections of the sockets of the teeth (especially the last molars), of the pharynx, oesophagus, air-passages, and thyroid body ; irritation any where over the scalp, in the ear or the cavities of the face, in the tongue, etc. The most serious abscesses are pei'baps those which occur in the course of low fevers. They are not infrequent during scarlet fever, measles, and smallpox. The scrofulous diathesis is always a powerful, predis- posing cause. Purulent collections in the neck make themselves known by signs similar to those which appear in affections of a like kind in other parts, but they are remarkable from the great swelling, oedema, and tension, together with the embarrassment of function which they occasion. The effects produced will vary with the position of the pus as regards the cervical aponeurosis. If it be superficial to the fascia, it will usually be circumscribed, and come quickly to the surface; but it may fill the whole side of the neck, extend to the clavicle, and even descend in front of the chest. When deep, the pressure-effects may be veiy serious. Abscesses rarely form in the nape of the neck, though occasionally they arise there in connection with the glands. From being firmly bound down they occasion great pain, and take long to come to the surface. Fluctuation is not easily recognized. They should be opened early. Inflammation of the gland below the chin may cause great swelling, in- vading the floor of the mouth. ISIastication and deglutition are embarrassed by the pain. By pressing down the floor of the mouth with one finger, so as to steady and render tense the swelling, fluctuation can be more easily made out. The pus generally points under the chin, but it may pass backwards towards the pharynx, or downwards along the windpipe or great vessels even into the chest. Alterations of voice, and inflammation within the air- passages, may result from pus formations in front of the larynx. The sheath of the sterno-mastoid may be filled with pus so as to render its movements both painful and difficult, and one species of wryneck may arise from the contraction caused by inflammation of this muscle. The great sources, how- ever, of cervical abscess, are the lymphatic glands so numerous in this region, and so liable to irritation. Though occasionally no explanation, unless it be a state of depressed health or cold, can be found for these glandular affections, yet as a rule, if carefully sought for, evidence will be found of irritation, somewhere in the wide circuit of the lymphatic vessels leading to these glands. The worst form of cervical abscess arises when the cellular tissue becomes involved after injury or after scarlatina. The Avhole side of the neck may become one hard mass, which slowly suppurates and causes extensive destruction. Violent and fatal bleeding may follow in these cases, even days after the abscess has been opened, and constitutes one of their most serious complications. Persons of enfeebled health are most liable to these formidable affections, and their lives may he placed in great jeoi)ardy hy the pain, fever, pressure-effects, and prostration. Serious complications too may follow. Beside the pressure on the bloodvessels, nerves, air-passages, and oesophagus, there may be sloughing and ulceration, with serious and ' See Vol. IV., page 928 et seq., for those coimected with the vertehrs.