65 INJURIES OP THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. sure and tension on the sensitive dura mater. The patient lies on his back in a more or less comatose condition, is unconscious, and breathes with a slow, stertorous respiration, often accompanied by a peculiar whitf at the corners of his mouth, as if he was smoking. The last-mentioned symptom appears to be due to paralysis of the cheek muscles, and is a sign of bad prognostic import. The pulse is full, and usually slow ; the skin is cool, or it may be, as in one case which I recall, very hot and dry ; or again, it may he hot and moist. The pupils are at first sluggish, and then fixed and immovable, being moderate in size, widely dilated, or one dilated and the other normal or contracted. This condition varies, as Ave have seen, Avith the part of the brain affected,^ or Avith the presence or al>sence of intracranial extravasation of blood. There are retention of urine and fecal incontinence. Tliere is jiaralysis of motion, usually affecting one side, lint there may be right hemiplegia AAdth spasmo- dic contractions of the left side, or only certain groups of muscles may he affected, accoi’ding to the particular form of brain injury. General tremors or convulsions may occur. The most constant symptoms are coma, stertor, and paralysis. When death ensues, respiratory paralysis is the cause, Avhence the plain indication to resort to artificial respiration. The fundus oculi pre- sents certain changes in Avell-marked cases of compression, such as venous stasis Avith relatively small arteries, and slight reddening of the papilla. Apoplexies of varying extent can sometimes be detected. Commencing neuro-retinitis descendens, Avith turbid redness of the papilla and indistinctness of its outline, may be noted, or—a very common form—stasis and ccdema of the papilla, in addition to the neuro-retinitis, that is, “ choked disk.”'^ These symptoms can only be detected in conpiression Avhieli lasts for some time, and usually result from the secondary compression exerted by pus—abscess of the brain, or diffuse suppurative cerelu’itis. When comjn’ossion is due to a foreign body, or to depressed bone, the symptoms Avill be immediate, the liatient being probably unconscious from the moment of injury. If the com- pression residts from intracranial hemorrhage, it AA’ill come on gradually, in most cases after a distinct interval of consciousness, Avhen the symptoms of concussion have partially or completely passed off If due to cerebral con- tusion and parenchymatous hemorrhage, consciousness aauII not return after the injury, but the concussion-symptoms Avill steadily merge into those of com- pression. If resulting from the pressure of serum, lymph, or pus, the symp- toms of compression Avill set in at a later }ieriod of the case, and commoidy after distinct indications of intracranial inflammation. iJiatjnosis of Cerebral Compression.—From A\diat has been said concerning concussion and compression, it Avill be seen tliat in most severe cases the distinction cannot be made, since the symptoms are oftentimes produced by similar injuries, the tAvo conditions presenting differences only of degree. Concussion in its first stage has no definite synjptoms beyond those of shock and syncope—Avhich may be also present at the incipiency of compression— Avhile if extravasation or cerebral contusion exist to any marked degree, symp- toms resembling those of compression Avill probably present themselves almost from the outset. Slight causes of compression, such as a limited depression of bone, or small extravasations of blood, may ]»roduce only eA^anescent symp- toms, the brain soon accommodating itself by vii-tue of its displaceable cerebro- spinal fluid. Thus in many cases no positive diagnosis is possible, since, as investigation has shoAvn over and over again, no one diagnostic symptom can be implicitly relied upon. Of course, Avhen a patient suffers from profound 1 See Concussion of the Brain, supra; also Leyden’s experiments, Ziemssen, op. cit., vol. xii. p. G6G. * See section on Cerehral Abscess, p. SO, infra. VOL. V.—5