87 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. Chronic Cerebral Abscess.—Although death after acute encephalitis may take place in the period of red softening and suppuration, consequent upon traurnatisins of the brain, nearly all the cerebral symptoms may disapjiear, even while a chronic abscess is forming. During this latent period (which usually varies from one to two months, although it may be of only a few days’ duration), when portions of the brain possessing definite functions are ati'ected, symptoms of localized disease may be noticed, such as aphasia, paresis, or hemiplegia, and even convulsions, whicli are commonly general, but are more rarely limited to certain groups of muscles. Strabismus is very rare. Signs of constant, slight pressure upon the brain may sometimes be detected, such as more or less continuous headache, accompanied during the exacerbations by occasional slight fever, dizziness, and nausea. Violent headache probably means tension of the abscess, and congestion around it. The moi’e frequent tliese attacks of severe cephalalgia, the more probable is it that acute red-inflammatory softening, yellow softening, and extensive cere- bral (edema, are imminent; in other words, that death may take place at any moment. Occasionally duhiess of the senses, slowness and want of motor energy, and gradual imbecility, accompany the chronic headache. Sleepless- ness, optical delusions, and intermittent attacks of extreme terror have also been recorded. Again, after a rapidly developed, severe headache, the patient may become comatose and feverish, these symptoms lasting only for a few hours. Chills have been very rarely noted, but liave been sometimes so marked as to give rise to the erroneous diagnosis of intermittent fever. Epileptiform convulsions often occur during the latent stage of chronic brain- abscess, but are in no way peculiar or diagnostic. The terminal processes of chronic cerebral abscess are, perforation outwards, witlx meningitis of the con- vexity of the brain; perforation at the base, with basal meningitis; rupture into the ventricles, extensive cerebi’al cndema, pi’essure upon the medulla oblongiita by a cei’ebellar abscess, and remarkixhle amemia of the hi’ain. The symptoms attendant upon the last stages of bi’ain-xihscess are often those of mental irritation, restlessness, illusions, and violent delirixxm, with elevated tempei’ature; but they are of such brief duration as to be frexpiently ovei’- looked, and are followed by sopor, severe headache, slow pulse, dilated and feebly-acting pupils, depressed temperature, passive retinal congestion, occa- sional vomiting, complete coma, and involuntary evacuations. Henu})legixi—■ or more rarely otlxer forms of paralysis—respiratory failure, xmd death usually result. Convulsions sometimes occur. Aluscular conti-actures are at times noted. When perforation induces meningitis, a corresponding change and confusion of synqitoms result, which I need not here attempt to desci’ihe. Cei’ehral localizxition rnxxy aid us in locating these abscesses, provided that they occxqty certain positions. They—even more thaix acute alxscesses—give rise to errors because of secondary involvement or irritation of contiguous or closely associated poi’tions of the encephalon, whence errors can so I’eadily arise that the gi’exitest caution must he exercised in making up our final o}iinion. I would I’efer the reader to Iluguenin’s excellent article on this subject in Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia of Piactical Medicine, for tlxe dittei-ential diagnosis of chronic cei’ehial abscess, as my limits do not admit of my saying more than that intraocular ophthalmoscopic appearances and eye-symptoms are here unreliable, and that Ixrain-tumor is the disexuse with which this xiffection is most apt to be confounded.