114S HERNIA. In 62 other cases, the patients have been seen and kept under observation for periods less than two years, during which time the cure has remained satisfactory—in many witliout any supporting truss-pressure whatever. ]\Iost of these however, have, for the sake of security, worn trusses during the first twelve months after 0})eration. In 48 cases, I have ascertained that, at various periods from a few months to two or more years, the ruptures have returned. In most of these cases, however, trusses have been made available and efficient, wdiich was not the case liefore the operation. The patients have been, in fact, made comfortable by the proceeding. In no instance, as far as is known, has the case been made worse by opera- tion. Although in many cases the operations have been failures, in a strictly scientific sense, they have by no means been so as far as the patient’s satisfaction and comfort have been concerned; and the operation can scarcely be put down, therefore, as a fntile efibrt to relieve suffering, any more than can the vast proportion of medical and surgical work which does not radically cure the patient, in the sense of relieving him for the whole period of his life, from a malady which nevertheless phj’sicians and surgeons profess to cure. Out of 300 cases of operation for the radical cure of inguinal hernia, then, 119 cases may be reckoned as having been kept under observation for vary- ing periods of time afterwards, while 48 have been actually proved to be failures in the strict scientific sense. 167 out of the 300 have then been ac- counted for, leaving 133 which have not been seen or heard of since the operation, either from not having been able, forgetting, or neglecting to do what all had been earnestly requested to do, viz., to report their condition from time to time afterwards. Aow, when we consider that patients who are not cured, are more likely to leturn on the hands of the surgeon for further aid, than those who are cured are to come and report their state, or express gratitude, we may fairly infer that the percentage of success in those who have not been seen or heard of, has been rather more than, or at least equal to, that among those who have been examined after the operation. Now, rather more than half have been seen or heard from, and of these nearly tliiee-fourths are cured. We are justified, then, in concluding that the percentage of success obtained by the subcutaneous-wire method for the radical cure of inguinal hernia is from 70 to 75 per cent, in selected cases, when the operation is properly performed. This percentage, however, drawn from all, including the early operations, well and ill selected alike, has been improved by another 5 per cent, in the latter more carefully selected cases. In some cases which have failed from various causes, such as the large size of the hernia, crying in a child, or carelessness just fitter the oj)eration, a second operation, and in one case a third, has been performed with ultimate and complete success. Some were first operated on by my old methods with thread and compress, or with }>ins, and afterwards by the sifficutaneous Avire opei’ation; of these there have been 12 cases, of which only one has failed utterly on both occasions. In two, no truss whatever has been worn since the last operation, viz., G. T., No. 11 in the table, a sailor, aged 15, last operated (second time), October, 1861 ; shown at King’s College'Hospital, December, 1874; quite sound; no truss had been worn at all. M. A., aged 5, second operation, October, 1864; seen in 1877; had worn no truss and was an accomplished bicyclist. In an enormously sized scrotal hernia in a sailor, F. H., aged 25 (No. 18), the operation was repeated three times, each time with impn)ve- ment, and with ultimate complete success. Last operation, November, 1871. Shown to a large assemblage of surgeons at the operating theatre at King’s College, in May, 1881.