CYSTS OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 1061 after taking exertion, or after eating his midday meal. Eleven months subsequently (July, 1870), the tumor occupied nearly the whole abdomen, and projected forwards, and had the characters of an ovarian tumor. Fluctuation was distinct; emaciation and debility were extreme; there was no albumen, blood, or pus, in the urine. The man died on October 4, 1870, worn out by the distension and pressure of the tumor. He would not have done so, however, had I known then, as I do now, how to treat renal cysts. At the post-mortem examination, a large cyst was found springing from the left kidney, projecting forwards the peritoneum, and pushing the small intestines, which were quite free from the tumor, downwards into the right iliac and pelvic regions. The transverse and descending colon were adherent to the tumor by their meso-colon, and formed an arch over and towards its posterior aspect. The tail of the pancreas and lower end of the spleen were adherent to the back of the cyst. The left kidney occupied a nearly transverse position in the loin ; its upper half was normal, but the rest was spread out in a tliin layer over the base of the cyst. In this expanded portion was a second, small, transparent cyst, the size of a currant. The capsule of the kidney was continued over the cyst. The pelvis of the kidney was unaltered, excepting for the drag upon the calyces of that part of the kidney which was spread out over the cyst. The cyst weighed sixteen pounds, and measured, after it had been contracted in spirit, twenty-nine inches in its longitudinal and twenty-six inches in its transverse diameter. It was filled with a dirty-brown fluid, and with coffee-ground colored blood-clot. Some of the clot had been deposited in irregular strata, but some recent hemorrhage had also occurred. The cyst-wall varied in thickness, but averaged about one-eighth of an inch ; large veins passed over its posterior surface, and branches of the renal artery and vein were traced into its substance. Two small nodules of medullary cancer were seen in the left kidney, and several in the lungs and liver; the right kidney was small, and contained several cysts vai’ying in size from that of a pin’s head to that of a pea, or larger. There was thus no difficulty in explaining the attacks of syncope during life; the large quantity of blood-clot in the cyst had clearly been derived from some of tlie branches of bloodvessels upon and in the cyst-walk The cancer was a mere accidental coincidence in the case, and had probably been induced by the depraved state of health—the result of disturbed functional activity of the abdominal viscera— caused by the pressure of the tumor. Dr. Bristowe* has recorded a case of doubtful origin, but which he regarded as a hemorrhagic cyst of the S[)leen, kidney, or peritoneum. It was cured by repeated tapping, and the evacuation, on the first occasion, of a gallon and a half of opaque, dark, reddish-brown fluid. This case was, most probably, one of simple cyst of the kidney, into which hemorrhage had occurred. The disease commenced with obscure abdominal symptoms, followed before long by an abdominal tumor, which rapidly increased until it formed a large, ovoid, somewhat irregular swelling, occupying the left side of the belly, and extending from the ribs above to the pubes below, and from the left loin to tw'o indies or so to the right of the median line. The patient rapidly emaciated and got weaker, vomited, and suffered from intense abdominal jiain coming on in paroxysms. His general aspect (he was a young man) was precisely that of a woman in the last stage of untreated ovarian dro[)sy, or of a child sinking from the effects of a malignant tumor of the kidney. The abdominal tumor was the only evidence of disease in the body. The large intestine did not afipear to cross the front surface of the tumor. The difficulty in the diagnosis of such cysts will be apparent from the reports of tlie above cases. The symptoms excited are merely those of pres- sure, and are, therefore, like the symptoms of other cystic swellings—hydatids, or cysts ot other structures. The locality ot the tumor in its earlier stages will somewhat aid the surgeon in correctly judging of the organ affected; hut tiot even then in estimating precisely the cliaracter of the swelling. In Hristowe s case, in its symptoms, position, and cure by repeated tappings, the tumor resembled some ot those false cysts wliich are formed by adhesions after ru[)ture of the kidney or liver, and which have been described in previous sec- * Lancet, May 5, 1883 (case also previously puhlislied in St. Thomas’s llosp. Reports).