450 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. Treatment.—Before the abscess has formed, when it is as yet only immi- nent, the inflammatory process may probably be arrested by removing some carious or tender tooth, which a skilful dental examination has shown to be its probable exciting cause. The first permanent molar, as a rule, is the one indicated, though the removal of several teeth may be necessary. When pus has already accumulated and no outlet exists, a free opening for its evacuation becomes necessary, and the method consists in the removal of a tooth and the perforation of the antrum at its base. Hunter^ long since clearly sketched out this and the other surgical steps recpiired:—“ The first part of the cure, as well as that of all other abscesses, is to make an opening, but not in the part where it threatens to point, for that would generally he through the skin of the cheek. If the disease is known early, before it has caused the destruction of the fore part of the bone, there are two ways of opening the abscess: one by perforating the partition between the antrum and the nose, Avhich may be done; and the other by drawing the first or second grinder of that side, and perforating the partition between the roots of the alveolar pro- cess and the antrum, so that the matter may he discharged for the future that way. But if the fore part of the bone has been destroyed, an opening may be made on the inside of the lip, where the abscess most probably will be felt; but this will be more apt tlian the other perforation to heal, and thereby may occasion a new accumulation, which is to he avoided if possible putting in practice all the common methods of preventing openings from healing or closing up; but this practice will rather prove troublesome, therefore the drawing of the tooth is to be preferred because it is not so liable to this objection.” The opening having been made as thus described, it will usually need to be enlarged by the careful use of a large trocar, and the floor of the antrum may then be broken up sufficiently to afford a free opening for the discharge of the pus. A careful examination with the probe will now have to be made to detect the possible presence of any foreign substance, or of necrosed bone, and, if such be discovered, it must be removed, even, if necessary, by still further enlarging the opening. In conducting this examination, the thorough- ness of which is important, the fact that the cavity of the antrum is occa- sionally divided by partial septa of bone projecting from its walls, as shown by Giraldes,^ must not be forgotten, for in such an instance a foreign body might lie concealed in some circumscribed region of the sinus, and could only be removed by a curved scoop and by breaking down the partitions. The subsequent treatment will consist in securing thorough cleanliness by the daily free use of disinfectant and stiniulating solutions—carbolic acid, per- manganate of potassium, sulphate of zinc, alum, nitrate of silver (gr. ij-oj) and the like—until the discharge becomes healthy in its character, and loses its fetid smell. The opening made may be kept patent by the use of a silver or leaden style, secured in position by fastening it with wire to the neighboring teeth ; or a small silver drainage tube may be used, secured in the same way. Salter has contrived an ingenious apparatus to efiect the same jmrpose.^ A few points remain to be considered. Should it for any reason be desir- able or necessary to open into the antrum at some point other than through the alveolar ridge, experience has shown that it is preferable to do so at the lower part of the canine fossa, the trocar being directed backwards and a little outwards. In eases where, on account of the swelling of the parts, the 1 Practical Treatise ou Diseases of tlie Teeth. London, 1771. 2 Des Maladies du Sinus maxillaire. Paris, 1851. 3 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. ii. p. 468.