DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 838 These are, first, angeioma, or a tumor consisting of bloodvessels; and, secondly, neuroma, or a growth made up of nerves. (B) Cysts, which include the formations due to obstructions of the ducts and the accumu- lation of the secretion of the lacteal glands, and cysts of new formation, including echinococci. Dr. Gross also expresses the opinion that— The development of the neoplasms of the breast is connected with the changed pro- portions of the component tissues of the breast at different periods of life, and that the condition of the tissue is, as a rule, indicated by the age of the patient. He further remarks that— The non-carcinomatous growths occur on an average at the thirty-third year ; only 30.37 per cent, develop after tlie age of forty, when the physiological life of the mamma is beginning to be impaired ; 15.22 per cent, appear before the twentieth year ; and 5.18 per cent, are met with before the establishment of menstruation. Previous to the age of forty, or during the structural perfection of the gland, or when the propor- tions existing between the epithelial and connective-tissue constituents is normal, fibro- mata and sarcomata are the most common neoplasms. From the same statistics lie also infers that— Structural perfection of the mamma renders it most obnoxious to fibroma, sarcoma, and adenoma, while atrophy or decay predisposes it to myxoma and carcinoma. I. Simple Tumors. Fatty, Vascular, Nervous, and Cartilaginous Tumors.—Fatty tumors are occasionally met with in the cellular tissue round the breast, but they do not affect the breast itself. Vascular tumors^ affecting the breast, have been recorded by Bryant, Image,^ and Langenbeck.^ Two cases of neuroma in the breast have been reported by Tripier.^ A few cases of cartilaginous tumor of the breast are also on record. The best recorded case is that of Dr. Lange.■* The tumor was removed from the breast of a woman, 51 years of age, and, according to Dr. Lange’s account, “ consisted of true cartilaginous and osseous tissue, tire former mostly in its variety as hj^aline cartilage. One large, roundish division, about one and a half inches in diameter, contained a large, bony nucleus. Otherwise the tumor consisted of a number of smaller, roundish divisions, separated from each other by strong layers of fibrous tissue, and showing partly glandular structure with cartilaginous nuclei scattered.” These various tumors do not require any special remarks in regard to their treatment. Should they, from their synq)toms or bulk, cause incon- venience, they must be dealt with according to the ordinary principles of surgery. Cystic Tumors.-—These may be divided into (1) Single Cj’sts; (2) Multiple Cysts. Cysts are also met with which contain solid growths in their interior— the so-called “ sero-cystic” tumor of Brodie, the “ proliferous cyst” of Paget, > Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxx. 2 Nosologie und Therapie der cfiir. Krankheiten, Bd. v. S. 83. 3 Diet. Kncyclop. des Sciences Med., 2e serie, t. iv. p. 408. ■* Med. Record, 1881.