LARYNaECTOMY. 773 time previous, or immediately ])reeeding, tlie trachea is usually severed from the larynx as the first step after exposure of the parts by section of the integu- ment, and then a leaden or vulcanite tube (Foulis), a rubber tube (I7ovaro), or a tampon-canula (von Bruns) sutficiently capacious to make an air-tight fit, is introduced into the trachea. The patient having been anaesthetized, measures must l»e taken to prevent escape of blood into the lower air-passages. This may he efiected by operat- ing upon the pendent he;id (Rose’s position), oi- in the same position as modified by Maas, who shoves a footstool under the middle }>ortiou of the vertebral column so as to bring the entire field of operation Ijelow the level occupied by the canula in the trachea.^ The same end may be attained by tamponning the trachea, so that the operation may be performed in the usual recumbent position. The air-tampon of Trendelenherg, or some of its modifications, whether with water, air, or sponge, has been used successfully in a number of operations ; but, like many other appliances, it is not always continuously re- liable. Michael’s^ modification seems to be the most trustwoidhy device, as fai- as I can learn from private inquiries. Micliael perforates a C3'lindrical piece of surgical sponge, lets it imbibe moisture, and then runs the canula through it. The sponge is allowed to diy, and is then surrounded by a water-tia:ht mem- brane, preferabl_y parchment-foil, Avhich is tied on tiglitl}- top and bottom, and covered witli a solution of gutta })ercha. Wheii the canula is in position, the sponge is saturated with water or with an antiseptic solution, by means of a puncture made with a hypodermic s_yringe. I>y means of a special attach- ment, the tissues above the canula can be irrigated during the after-ti-eat- ment, without removing the tube. The ordinaiy canula nay he Avound Avith sponge, as suggesteil ly Xussbaum and employed successfully by Czerny, Billroth, and (Tussenhauer, so that in accordance Avith the belief of the latter, there seems no absolute occasion for aiy complicated appliance. Langel* found tinder to be a much better substance for the puiqiose than sponge. This seems preferable to the use of either air or Avater tampons, Avhich are liable to sudden rupture, and may thus unexpectedly complicate the operation. If the larynx be-severed from the trachea as the first step A)f the o}>eration, the trachea is to be tamponed superiorly* as far doAvn as the canula, so as to make assurance double-sure. Foulis and Xovaro have trusted to air-tight tubes inserted into the top of the severed trachea. Foulis used a curved leaden tube covered Avith rubber, and Xovaro a thick soft-rubber “ Xelaton"’ catheter, secured to the integument Avith a large pin. Von Bruns used a tarnpon-canula in the same Avay. In either instance, subsequent amesthesia is to be kept up through the tube, the free })Ortion of Avhich })resents itself outside of the Avound. In its simplest features, the external relatioirs remaining iKArmal, laryngec- tomy is practicable as follows: A longitudinal incision is made through the integument in the middle line, reaching from the hy*oid hone to the first or second ring of the trachea, care being taken to avoiil incision into the tracheal, fistula, should a high trachootomyAiave been pei-formed. To gain additional room for mani}>ulation, in certain conditions, a second incision is made, cross- Avise at the level of the hyf)id bone, on each side as rcfpiired, and in such a <lirection as Avill make the flaps most available, reaching, if need he, as far back as the sterno-mastoid muscle. The larynx is then exjiosed in the median line, as described in speaking of com})lete laryngotomy (p. 71b), and tlie crico- thyroid arteries are ligatured and divided. Any bursa' or glands in the Avay may be excised. The soft jiarts overlying the larynx are then to be detached. ' Aroli. f. kliii. Cliir., R<1. xix. S. .007. lS7t!. * Ibid., 13d. xxviii. H. 3. ^ .Arcliivus of Laryngology, j). 41. 1880.