144 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. nal plate only is involved, no operative treatment is required, it being only needful to aid repair by general measures. If the caries extend deeply into the bone, and be still spreading, a cautious use of tbe gouge may be advised ; but in no case should either tbe actual cautery or liquid caustics of any kind be used. In certain cases, •where pus is pent up either in the substance of tbe bone itself, or between the bone and the dura mater, the use of the trephine is to be recommended. In cai'ies of the mastoid process, for example, an early application of the trephine will often relieve the most distressing symptoms and arrest the progress of the disease (for a while, at least), by the evacuation of pus situated deeply in the bone. In cases of so-called perforating tuber- culosis, also, where pus is retained between the dura mater and the bone, or in the substance of the di])loe, great benefit may attend the apilication of the trephine to the diseased area.’ The ancient treatment of recklessly applying the trephine at many points around a carious spot is strongly to be condemned. Mr. Bryant^ has recorded a case in which he trephined out a piece of carious bone in a patient who had become epileptic after the appear- ance of the disease, and who was suffering from hemiplegia. Considerable improvement followed upon the operation, but it was only temporary. Necrosis of the Skull.—Etiology.—Necrosis may follow upon injuries of all kinds, especially upon fractures, where pieces of bone have lieen more or less entirel}’ separated from the skull, and thus dejirived of their blood supply. It may follow also upon simple contusions of the bead, and in such cases it is probably due to some lesion of the bloodvessels nourishing the bone. There lias been perhaps an extravasation of blood in the diploe, with some damage to the diploic tissue, or an extravasation has separated the dura mater from the bone, or a like separation has occurred in the pericranium. As the blood supply of the cranial bones is mainly derived from tbe dura mater, damage to that membrane is more effective in producing necrosis than is a corres- ponding lesion of the pericranium. Necrosis may also follow upon burns, or upon injuries of the parts from corrosive substances. Necrosis may terminate acute or chronic osteo-periostitis. It may be due to scrofula, and, in individuals with this diathesis, it is especially apt to occur after the eruptive fevers. But if one excepts that slight form of superficial necrosis (exfoliation) which is common after certain injuries, then certainly it is to syphilis that one must look for the most common cause of skull necrosis. According to some authors, nine-tenths of all eases of necrosis of the cranium can be ascribed to the tertiary form of this disease. Ileineke® quotes a remarkable case of necrosis of the contiguous parts of the frontal and parietal bones and great wing of the sphenoid, that occurred in a jjatient aged nineteen, after typhus fever. At the autopsy, it was found that the middle meningeal artery was blocked by a thrombus. Pathology.—The seat of necrosis varies considerably. When due to injury, it may of course be in any bone, but the idiopathic forms are especially apt to attack the frontal and parietal bones, and are rarely met with in tbe occipital. Great variety is also seen in the extent of the disease. Tbe necrotic action may involve the entire thickness of the bone, or may implicate only the external or the internal table. Its most frequent seat is in the external table, whereas necrosis of the inner plate only is extremely rare. When the whole thickness of the skull bone is necrosed, the outer table will usually be found to be more extensively involved than the inner table; or, in many R. Volkmann (loc. cit.! lias performed this operation in four cases of perforating tuberculosis with good results. 2 Medical Times and Gazette, vol. ii. page 158, 1860. 3 Loc. cit., S. 65.