TREATMENT OF PLEURAL EFFUSIONS. 815 cratic siiccussion is often wanting, or difficult to obtain, in the early stages of these cases; nor is the effort to obtain it either likely to he made, or justifia- ble, while the desire for absolute rest and freedom from respiratory effort, which such wounds demand, controls both patient and surgeon. The oppo- site conditions are often present—great oppression, dyspnoea, and orthopna-a —the results of the extreme effusion of blood alone, of air alone, or of Ijoth, into the pleura. Between cases of the first group and those of this gravest degree, are a large series in which it has been suggested to favor the accumulation, or rather retention, of blood or of air, to induce pi’essure in the pleural cavity, as a means of mechanically compi’essing the lung to arrest bleeding. In the last series, the efforts are made in the opposite direction. It is advisable to make efficient drainage, and even to withdraw the thoracic contents by aspiration to relieve urgent dyspnoea. Just as the lung has been observed to collapse, or again to remain uninffuenced by exposure of the pleural surface to atmospheric pressure, so each of these opposite plans of treatment has, in the first period of penetrating wounds, been found in particular instances to afford relief. The advocates of “ hermetical closure” record many eases of instant relief from the adoption of their method, and while there is abundant proof tliat the indiscrimiuate adoption of this practice has been most disastrous, one must be prepared in an emergency to adopt either plan. Treatment of Pleural Effusions. It has been clearly sbowid that blood shed into the pleural cavity coagulates rapidly, and separates into coagulurn and serum; that if the amount is mode- rate, the serum becomes absorbed by the third or fourth day ; and that on infiarnmatory reaction suj)ervening, the change is limited to the circum- ference of the clot, presently leading to its inclosure in a cyst. But if the amount of blood be great, the serum of the clot is not absorl)ed when re- action occurs, and empyema results. Air, whether introduced by the wound in the chest-wall or by that in the lung, may equally be rapidly ab- sorbed ; if the opening in the lung be small, its sides rapidly adhere, and close l)y circumscribed effusion of lymph ; in these cases, or in those that may be presumed to be sucb, the closure of the external wound is indicated, but whore cases of the opposite kind are the subject of treatment, open wounds, suitably guarded from the introduction of septic material, are to be maintained. In the treatment of traumatic empyema, or of blood-effusion which must from its size and irritating condition terminate as such, the line of practice is not in any respect different from that appropriate to itliopathic empyema ; oidy the cases differ in the fact that already there are external openings, and the ])roceedings are to be governed by the position and form ot these, in arranging for a proper discliarge of the retained ffuid. Admitting the foregoing statement, it is clear that the ffuid which accumu- lates in the pleural cavity after penetrating wounds (if we except the rare occurrence ot wounds of the cesophagiis), may be either blood, serum effused troni the pleural surface, or pus. The first and obvious element of diagno- sis is the time ot develo|inient of the signs and symptoms; if these supervene in tlie first tew hours, no doubt can arise, for blood alone can l)e poured out ill sufficient quantity under sucb circumstances; but delay in the development ot symptoms and physical signs does not preclude the diagnosis of blood- effusion, tor at any [leriod of these wounds an intermediary or secondary 1 Cli. Nelatoii, Des <;panclietnejits de sang dans les pleures.