416 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. tion, and of foreign bodies. Pain is a more constant symptom, however; and periodical hernicrania, terminating by the evacuation of a nasal calculus, has more than once been reported.^ An ichorous or muco-purulent discharge— sometimes stained with blood, and of an offensive character—is never want- ing. The very character of this discharge may lead to the mistaken diag- nosis of ozaena, or fetid catarrh, especially in those cases of calculi in which the mass is encysted beneath the mucous membrane, or located so far posteriori}* that it cannot be seen. The peculiar, characteristic click of the probe against it will, in the latter instance, however, render the matter clear. The dilata- tion of the nostril and the obstruction to respiration will still further com- plicate the differential diagnosis between calculus and nasal polypus f and the deformity and accompanying suppuration, that between the same condition and necrosis of the nasal bones ; but with care, direct inspection, and thorough prob- ing, the difficulty is easily overcome. The latter is the mistake commonly made ; instances are probably familiar to many of us. In a reported case, the calculus was a large one, and was removed by lithotrity in four sittings ; it had been mistaken for necrosis of the malar bone. Fraenkel, finally, calls attention to the danger of confounding nasal calculi with calcareous degeneration of the mucous membrane itself. The latter is sometimes found in the nose, especially in the old, but occasionally likewise in the young, in consecpience of the ossitic diathesis ; the membrane covering tbe turbinated bones may develop, first, fine granular points, and afterwards, plates of calcareous matter. The condition is, however, a rare one. The diagnosis having been made, the removal of the cal- culus may be at once undertaken by tbe same methods as were detailed in treating of the removal of foreign bodies from the nasal passages. Granted that it be not too large, nor too firmly imbedded, and that it is accessible, the scoop or forceps will be all-cfficient means of removal. In cases where the rhi- nolite is located beneath the mucous membrane, it will be necessary to incise this down to the stone, to allow of its extraction. ErichseiF mentions two cases of this kind as occurring in children. When the calculus is too large to permit of extraction by the natural nasal opening, it must of necessity, in order to lessen the danger of laceration of the soft tissues, be crushed up by a strong pair of forceps, -or drilled through, and the dthris washed out by the syringe introduced into the unaffected passage. Cohen recommends that in some instances the point of a knife should be passed under the edge of the cal- culus, a short distance into the soft })arts, and that it should then be pried out, in part, by some blunt instrument. The subsecpient treatment, after the removal of the concretion, will be the thorough cleansing of the nasal cavities, and the application of such astringent remedies as may tend to allay inflammation, reduce inflammatory thickening, and lieal superficial ulceration. These results—with a subsidence of all subjective and objective symptoms—usually follow very c^uickly the removal of the offending body. Parasites of the Hasal Cavity. I The entrance of living creatures into the nasal cavities is always more or less a matter of chance, and the occurrence a rare one, although the older writers, manifestly wrong, ascribed all cases of ozoena attended with severe frontal headache to the presence of insects or their larvte in that situation, numerous cases are not wanting, however, in modern times, in which the ' Axmanii, Arcli. Gen. de M6d., Mai, 1829. 2 Voltolini narrates the history of such a case. Die Auwendung der Galvano-kaustik, S. 240, Zvveite Auflage. 1872. ® Science and Art of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 390.