INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1006 sized trocar and eanula, should he used, and the cannla should he left in for some days. Sir J. Fayrer has devised a grooved trocar and cannla -which is introduced in the ordinary way; if after withdrawing as much of the pus as will flowthrough the eanula, it he thought desirable to make an incision into the abscess cavity, a long straight bistoury can be run along the groove of the cannla, which thus serves as a director for the knife. In many cases it is preferable to open the abscess l>y a free incision, and this should be made if X)ossible below the ribs, and as near the xiphoid cartilage as the case permits. A drainage-tube should he used. The evacuation of the pus gives relief to urgent symptoms, but the prospect of permanent recovery is not very great. In cases of true infective origin, only temporary benefit, if any, can possibly accrue, and as the abscesses are small and often multiple, there is generall}' no use in attempting surgical treatment. In tropical abscess, change of climate often seems very beneficial, and a sea-voyage sometimes appears to work marvels. When a patient is suftering from a long-continued drain of pus, this resource should certainly be tried. When fluctuation is not present, but the symptoms are urgent and the distress great, pus may he sought for with tlie aspii’ating needle. With reference to the surgical treatment of hepatic abscess, hydatid cysts of the liver, and distended gall-bladder, much importance formerly was attached to the existence or non-existence of adhesions of the liver-cyst oi’ gall-bladder to the abdominal wall prior to making an opening. INIany surgeons considered it bad and dangerous practice to lay open these tumors until such adhesions had occurred, and various methods Avere employed with the view of securing their formation. An excellent and exhaustive account of these methods, and indeed of the Avhole subject of treating these collections of fluid, is to he found in Dr. Thomson’s well-knoAvn Avork.* They may be briefly summarized as follows;—(1) Fixing the tumor by strips of adhe- sive plaster, applied over the abdomen before inserting even a fine trocar and cannla. (2) Method of Graves, viz., to divide all the tissues to Avithin a few lines of the peritoneum, and then stirtf the Avonnd Avith lint. The inflammation Avhich folloAvs is supposed to have the double advantage (a) of establishing adhesions, and (6) of determining the abscess toAvards this point. (3) Method of Begin ; an incision should be made doAvn to the peritoneum, and this membrane should be raised Avith a pair of forceps and divided as if it Avere a hernial sac. If tlien it he found that tlie sac of the abscess, or cyst, he adherent to the parietes, it should be opened at once; if not adherent, by applying simple dressing to the Avound for a feAv days, adliesions Avill take |)lace, and the opening may he made as soon as adhe- sion is accomplished.^ (4) Method of Becamier; this consisted in the appli- cation of caustic potassa to the skin over the SAvelling. The eschar Avhicli resulted Avas divided Avith a bistoury, and more caustic potassa Avas applied to the Avound. This process Avas repeated until the caustic had caused firm adhesion of the tAvo layers of the peritoneum, and then the abscess Avas opened with a trocar or bistoury. The surgeons of to-day Avill, I think, endorse the conclusions expressed by Dr. Murray,^ Avho Avrote in 1839 : “ I believe it is noAV the opinion of most, if not all, the queen’s medical officers in this command, that the sooner an abscess in the liver is opened after its existence and site are ascertained, the better; and that there is neither much danger of eflusion of matter into the cavity of the peritoneum, even Avhen no adhesion exists betAveen the liA’er ’ Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Liver and Biliary Passages, pp. 22(1 et seq. Edin- burgh, 1841. 2 Journ. llebdom., 1830. Madras Quarterly Medical Journal, October, 1839.