BURNS AND SCALDS OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 645 numbers of cases in which boiling wmter has been taken into the moutli, and in which death has ensued from the resulting laryngitis, no evidence has been found of the fluid having readied the stomach in any instance, and in but few cases had it reached even the upper portion of the oesophagus. I have seen no record of deglutition of boiling water for suicidal purposes; but it is fair to infer that a case of the kind would furnish evidence that the fluid had reached the stomach, just as acid and caustic solutions do in suici- dal cases. Acute laryngitis, laryngitis covibustionis, rapidly supervenes upon burns and scalds of the larynx, often immeoliatcly. It is often intense, and is generally attended with extensive (edema. It is not limited to the mucous membrane, but engages the submucous tissues likewise. The inflammatory process is usually confined to the supra-glottic portion of the larynx; but in some instances it extends to the trachea and the bronchi, and even to the lungs. Pneumonia and broncho-pneumonia may supervene without direct implica- tion of the trachea and the larger bronchi. In some instances the inflamma- tion does not overstep the pharyngeal surface of the laiynx. In others a plastic, exudatory slough, similar to the plastic exudation of croup—showing arrested circulation from the violence of the inflammation, and consequent necrosis of the mucous membrane, coagulation necrosis (Weigert)—is }>roduced along the entire tract of injury and beyond it. It has been found after death in the larynx, trachea, and bronchi. Sgmptoms.—The immediate symptoms are pain, dyspncea, dysphagia, dys- phonia or aphonia, shock, accelei-ated pulse and respiration; and, at a later period, inspiratory stridor, spasm, threatening suflbeative apncea, and col- lapse. In cases of hums from the heated air and smoke of burning buildings, the s[)uta may contain hlack, carhonaceous material.^ Oedema of the epiglot- tis or of the aryteno-epiglottic folds may be almost immediate, or may be developed during tlie course of a few hours. In cases associated with burns of the truidv and lirnhs, rather than of the head and neck, it may not occur within a w'eek. The symptoms do not always appear at once. Thus, Porter- says that he knew a girl, after swallowing a dose of sulphuric acid, to sit quietly and drink tea with some companions, who were afterwards suspected of having poisoned her, although the dose had been so powerful that she died in a few hours. lie likewise knew of a man who took a second drink of the sul- phuric acid, because he thought that the flrst dose was not sufliciently (|uick in dispatching him. Diagnosis.—Except when the nature of the accident is purposely concealed by a determined suicide, the diagnosis is easy, especially in adults. Severe pain in the part, dyspinea, dysphagia or aphagia, acceleration of the indse and respiration, and the history of the case, are usually sufficient to establish the fact of a burn or scald. The interior of the mouth, the posterior portion of the tongue, the [)alate and pharynx, if seen early, are inflamed, swollen, and vesicated or blistered, or are covered with white patches, as though cau- terized—-often from detaehment of a slough of eiflthelium—while the mucous membrane is seen to have undergone destruction in spots. In some in- stances, the oedematous epiglottis can be seen erect on ordinary inspection.^ There are few records of laryngoscopic examination of the parts injured. Tuerck'’ has depicted the laiyngoscopic appearance of a circumscribed, sym- metrical cauterization of the outer, inferior surl'aces of the arytenoid ear- ' Colieii, Inhalation : its Therapeutics ami Ih-actice, p. 294. Philadelpiiia, 1869. ^ On the Larynx ami Tracliea, p. 178. London, 1837. ® Mackfoizie, op. cit., ji. 281. Klinik der Krankheiten des Kehlkopfes und der Liiftrdhre, S. 182. Wien, 1866.