CONTUSIONS OF THE CHEST. 803 sioii tliat these injuries are mortal: in fact, if the recorded cases be excep- tions to the rule, they are only just sufficient to prove that rule. Ruptures of the diaphragm occur as the result of contusions alike of the chest and abdomen, and give rise to the grave complication of hernial pro- trusion of the abdominal contents into the thorax. Diaphragmatic herniaj are, indeed, more frequently the result of penetrating wounds of the chest, than of contusions without wound, but a sufficient number of the cases ou record belong to tlie latter group to make it a matter of indifference in which connection we study the complication. The simplest in its mechanism, but by no means the most common of these ruptures, is the laceration of the diaphragm by a fractured ril>, as part of a grave injury of the lower part of the thorax. On the occurrence of the rupture, a portion of intestine, or in cases of large rents tlie stomach and intestines, enter the thorax, and in some cases—those of more limited rupture—-immediate strangulation takes place, and so the fatal issue becomes determined; in others-—those of larger rent—great embarrassment of breathing with vomiting ensues. The patients in such cases, while they run great risk of speedy death, not infrequently recover, the hernia remain- ing permanent. In these ruptures of the diaphragm, and in wounds by penetrating weapons or bullets, should the patient sui’vive, the same result has been observed in all instances as far as the lesion of the dia|)hragm is concerned—the failure of union in its wound, a failure that must sooner or later lead to hernia if this complication does not establish itself at the moment of the injury. The subject of these injuries of the diapliragm has hitherto fallen more into the hands of medical jurists, than into those of practical surgeons. The best descriptions and collections of cases are those of writers on the medico-legal bearings of the condition—Rqid and Devergie—except perliaps the short chajiter of Sir A. Cooper. One thing is clear, tliat in reference to the diagnosis of diaphragmatic hernia, as occurring in practice, our records abound in post-mortem diagnoses. The physical signs and symptoms are indeed easily reduced to description on paper, hut the complication, whether or not it has arisen independently of wound or injury, whether it be congen- ital or traumatic, has commonly escaped detection excejit by the hands of the pathologist. As the result of the anatomical disposition of the viscera, the left side of the diaphragm and its crural opening are the most common seats of protrusion, although the right side has been also affected; the mechanical barrier presented by the liver appears to determine this order of frequency; the openings for the epigastric vessels, too, liave given rise to idiopathic hernia into the mediastinum.' The question of chiefest interest in tliese eases, based on what is discovered after death, and capable of being raised in the meflico-legal consideration of a contusion or penetrating wound of the thorax, is that studied by lleid,^ whether, such an hernia lieiug found subsequent to an injury, it can be proved to have resulted from the injury directly, or whether its existence may be attributed to natural causes. On this point anatomy only can give satisfac- tory evidence; if the hernia be contained in a true hernial sac, its idiopathic origin may be affirmed; an uncertainty exists as to congenital hernipe, for these may or may not possess a sac, many, indeed most, wanting it; trau- ' Little, Dublin .Journal of Medical. Science, vol. Ixvi. 1878. ^ Pliysiological Researclies.