DISEASES OF THE ETHMOIDAL CELLS. 447 other parts of the face, cedema and tumefaction of all the tissues, impaired vision, epistaxis, profuse discharge from the nasal passages, and intense head- ache—readily mistaken in the earlier stages for the manifestations of a cachec- tic or syphilitic cephalalgia—with compression and ultimate perforation of the bony structures at the base of the skull, and involvement of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, with serious cerebral disturbance, are, unfortunately, but common results. Foreign Bodies in the Frontal Sinuses.—The entrance and lodgment of foreign bodies in these cavities, as the result of gunshot wounds or other injuries, have been referred to. Reference must now be made to the presence of living insects, flies and worms, which either crawl up from the nasal fos- sae, or are developed from ova, deposited directly within the sinuses or intro- duced in the act of smelling certain flowers or fruits upon which they have been placed by the insect. (Saltzman.) Fatal disease from such causes is said to be not rare in some countries, notably in India, where it is called Peenash.* The symptoms of their presence are well marked, and consist in continuous or intermittent headache, located over the frontal sinus, cerebral excitement and maniacal delirium, fainting, sudden vertigo and even sudden and temporary blindness, a profuse muco-purulent or fetid discharge, and epis- taxis. (Pozzi, Schneider.) In the further course of the aftection the bones be- come necrosed, the eyeball is invaded, the soft parts become gangrenous, and the mouth, gums, and superior maxilla are attacked, and perhaps denuded— the latter conditions, however, only occurring in extreme cases. The diag- nosis is confessedly difficult, unless there be a clear history of the entrance of the insect, or some evidence of its life, in the discharges from the nose. To dislodge these insects, various expedients are recommended. Va})ors of car- bolic acid, sulphur, or iodine, forced into the cavities by means of compressed air, one nasal passage being held closed, and injections of saline solutions, or of those containing permanganate of })Otassium or carbolic acid, have all answered a good purpose. The inhalation of chloroform may he tried, or the insufflation of irritant snuffs may, by exciting the act of sneezing, be sufficient to cause their dislodgment. In extreme cases, the sinus must be trephined, to afford direct access to its interior. (Kohts.) Foreign bodies may Ite formed within the frontal sinus; thus Bartholinus details instances in which he lias seen, in the sinuses, earthy concretions similar to those which are sometimes found in the nose. Their treatment, if they give rise to any irritation, would he that of any other foreign body in this locality. Diseases of the Ethmoidal Cells. Owing to the direct continuity of the mucous membrane of the nose with that lining the cells of the sphenoid bone, all those processes which affect the former may likewise exert their influence upon the latter. Catarrhal inflam- mations, inflammatory thickenings, polypoid excrescences, and even, according to Virchow, osteitis and caries, with ])erforation of the base of the skull, may thus find their seat witliin the walls of this cavity. Diplitheritic ulce- ration of its mucous membrane has been reported. Chronic inflammation of the cells is, if we may credit Michel, the most frequent cause of so-called oztena. > See Med. Times and Gazette, January 30 and February 6, 1875, and Indian Med. Gaz., August 18, 1874.