718 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. made. The surgeon then places the forefinger of his left hand on the left side of the trachea, and the thumb on the right, and makes uniform, steady, deep pressure until he is able to feel the pulsation of both carotid arteries; and then the finger and thumb are slightly ap- proximated so as to hold the trachea firmly and securely. The finger and thumb are not to be moved until the trachea is reached. As the surgeon cuts confidently down in the middle line by a series of careful inci- sions, the pressure upon the trachea causes that structure to advance and the wound to gape. 'When the trachea is reached, as indi- cated by the sensation imparted through the knife, or by examination from time to time with the forefinger of the right hand, it may be opened at once, or after having been secured witli a sliarp hook. In twenty-three cases in which this method has been adopted by Mr. Durham, that surgeon has had no reason to regret the course pursued. Awhile it must be admitted that serious hemorrhage sometimes follows accidental or careless division of vessels unexpectedly found in the line of dissection, and occasionally with fatal results, it may be contended that the well-known frequency and variety of abnormal distribution of bloodvessels should insure sufiicient care on the pai’t of the operator to keep Inm on the lookout for vessels in the way of his knife, until the trachea has been pre- jtared for the incision into it. The finger, as well as the eye, must be brought into frequent requisition, and when the direct light is poor, a reflector should l>e used to illuminate the parts. If dangerous vessels cannot be avoided, they should be secured in advance.* In cases of excessive venous congestion, with threatening suffocation, in which time cannot be spared for securing vessels before or immediately after their division, it is sometimes necessary to complete the operation, despite the hemorrhage, so as to lay open the trachea, introducing the canula at once—when the bleeding may be expected to subside, as the re- establishment of respiration relieves tlie right chambers of the heart. Should normal respiration be delayed, artificial respiration must be instituted. The hemorrhage, however, does not invariably cease. The lesser of the two evils at hand, then, is to attempt completion of the operation, and give the patient a chance of resuscitation ; the greater one is to delay, and let the patient suiib- cate beyond recovery. Crico-tiiyroid Laryngotomy.—This operation presents little difficulty, the only tissues overlying the crico-thyroid membrane being skin and cervical fascia. The patient being in the recumbent or semi-recumbent position, as circum- stances may render desirable, and the position of the crico-thyroid membrane having been determined by palpation, the operator steadies the larynx between ■ For descriptions of tlie anomalies of vessels alluded to, the reader is referred to Tiedemann’s Tabuh'e Arteriarum ; Brescliet’s Recherches Anatomiques, Physiologiques, et Pathologiques sur le Systfeme Veineux ; Gross’s Foreign Bodies in the Air-passages; and Pilcher’s Anatomy of the Anterior Median Region of the Neck (Annals of Anatomy and Surgery, April, 1881). Fig. 1064. Lines of incision in Bose’s method of tra- cheotomy. (Mackenzie.)