DESCRIPTION OF INSTRUMENTS, ETC. 371 will have to be made through the anterior nares, the spray being driven well hack into the pharynx. Other simpler and less costly spray producers are now made in great variety, upon the plan of Bergson, and as they are furnished with metal tubes of various lengths and directions, and are easily procurable, they play a useful part in the treatment of nasal and pharyngeal diseases. Powder Insufflators.—The most useful forms are shown in the following cuts. One is arranged (Fig. 927) to deliver a charge of the finely pulverized powder with which the bottle is charged, into the anterior nares (Smith), and the second (Fig. 928), with a longer, curved tube, performs the same operation in the posterior nares. (Robinson.) In both, the short tube is connected with a single hand-liall by means of a piece of rubber tubing, and one or two rapid and more or less forci- ble compressions of this hand-ball are sufficient to force a small quantity of the medicated powder into the nasal pas- sages, either anteriorly or posteriorly, and to cover the surfaces of the parts with an even coating of it; the same result may be obtained by the use of the series of hard-rubher tubes devised by Robinson, which are so arranged that Fig. 928. Fig. 927. Insufflator for anterior nares. they may be attached to the tube of the cylinder of com]tressed air, in the same manner that the spray-tubes are connected with it; or, in default of the latter, the tubes may be arranged with a ])ieee of soft-rul)ber tiilfing and a mouth- piece, or even with a liand-ball, so that the powder may be either blown or forced through the nasal ])assages by the ojierator himself. Although various forms of inhaler and steam-atomizer play an important part in the popular treatment of nasal catarrh, they certainly, as a rule, exercise no evident beneficial effects, and can readily do harm. In cases of acute coryza, and in those of long-standing catarrhal infiamnmtion, with a dry and irritable