555 SURGERY OF THE PERMANENT TEETH. The converse is true of feehle-minded people who, having a fair physique, show well-rounded jaws and regular dental arches. Many peculiarities are of inherited origin as far as the individual is con- cerned, but what may have caused the initial departure from a normal type in preceding generations, it is impossible to determine. More readily, perhaps, than any other deformities of the human organization, are dental irregularities transmissible, and departures from a normal type in the parents reappear in the children in an exaggerated form. Irregularities that require treatment are never seen in the deciduous teeth. The deciduous dental arch is always well formed and symmetrical. It is only in the second set that deformities make their appearance; and it is exceptional that sucli peculiarities can be foreseen and prevented. It can- not be determined with any certainty, before eruption, that a dental arch is going to be abnormal, the causes being generally hidden and remote. The normal type of the dental arch describes a regular line; the arch may be wider or narrower, varying somewhat in individuals or races, but the line will be an easy, graceful curve, without break or tendency to form an angle. Within certain limits, a narrow dental arch, as associated with certain fea- tures, may become the perfection ot beauty; while with another form of head and face, the widest development may be equally pleasing. That which is recognized now as the standard or full measure of beauty, as well as of utility, is not unlike that which existed in the remotest historic ages, nor different from that which is now exhibited among all communities not degenerated by luxury or vice. Abnormalities include such a shape of the arch as is not in harmony with the surrounding features, all crowding and twisting of the teeth, and all departures from a regular line in their positions. One form of irregularity seems to be due to unwise or premature extraction of the deciduous canines of the upper jaw. In the ordinary course of nature, these teeth should be the last to drop out. If extracted long anterior to their period of shedding, the permanent bicuspids are liable to encroach upon the domain of the canines, and thus deprive them of their place in the arch. Such a malposition can be foreseen and prevented. Another abnormality of the superior dental arch which can be prevented is the result of thumb-sucking, or its equivalent, in the earlier years of chiidhootl. The effect of this habit is to ])rotrude all the teeth in the front part of the mouth. This deformity will not show itself until the eruption of tlie permanent teeth, sometimes even after the practice which caused it may have ceased.* But a large proportion of dental irregularities cannot be predetermined witli certainty, even where there is an hereditary tendency, and can be corrected only when they tlevelop. An observer with limited experience may often be misled by the appearance of teeth as they first erupt. They may seem to be growing out of the line of the arch, and it may be thought that a permanent irregularity is inevitable. But many such cases need no interference ; if left to themselves the teeth will acquire regularity, and will often assume their true places unless the occlusion of the antagonizing teeth prevents them. But interference is demanded as soon after eruption as it becomes certain that a deformity is inevitalde. There is then no longer justification for delay, for after that period every year increases the difficulties, both patho- logical and mechanical, and prejudices the stability of the dental apparatus. But all irregularities in the position of the teeth are not deformities which * In one instance which came under the author’s observation, a mother of good social position had nursed from her hreast a daugliter until tire latter was nine years old, the result being that the girl’s six upper front teeth were protruding so tliat her lips could not be closed.