INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 820 It Las been recomnieucled by bigb antboritjg* to maintain the drainage of the cavity of the pleura, with antiseptic treatment, by means of a eanula of silver accurately titting the wound, and closed by a silver lid. "With this arrangement the fluid is to be washed out by a double tube (two Js'elaton’s catheters) twice in the twenty-four hours. I am convinced that this method is too complicated, and not in any wa}^ superior to the use of a simple drain- age tube carried to its full length, shortened when necessary as the cavity Alls up, and maintained constantly free for the ingress and egress of air dulv Altered by a well-adjusted dressing. Only one trivial point is worth no- ticing : the ordinary French drainage-tube, perfect in other respects, contains overmuch sulphur; from this no harm accrues at first, except that an un- educated nose may fear that decomposition has taken place, when in reality only the tube has furnished an odor of sulphuretted hydrogen. At a later stage, when the discharge, in a case passing on to a favoj’able issue, has be- come serous in character, it will be found that aJfesh piece of tubing, used for fear of the old one being decayed or damaged, will provoke a fresh dis- charge of pus for a few days, by its irritating chemical composition. It is well then to start with two tubes, to have one ready for change at each dressing, and, if it be possible, to avoid new tubes subsequently; better still is the use of pure-ruhber tubing, free from an excess of sulphur. As many accidents have happened in the use of pleural injections—notably, in some cases, poisoning by carbolic acid, and sudden and unexplained death in others—it is far better to abstain from their employment; they may be neces- sary in some cases, but in most they may be entirely dispensed with. The methods of puncture through a I’ib, which have been of late, and long ago, proposed as substitutes for the opening in an intercostal space, do not appear to otter any substantial advantage. A drainage-tube is always sufficient to niaintain the ordinary opening, and it would appear to be only courting a further source of irritation, to establish unnecessarily caries or necrosis of a rib, such as must result from this proceeding.^ l)oubt has of late years been expressed as to the possibility of pneumonia occurring as a result of wounds of the lung, or even contusions of its struc- ture ; on the other hand, the statement is made that pneumonia is an invari- able sequence of wound of the lung, and constitutes one of the gi’eat secondary dangers of this injury. (Erichsen.) In the American war returns, we find that traumatic pneumonia “ is noted as a grave complication in two hundred and eighty-five of the penetrating, and seven of the non-penetrating wounds of the chest, and resulted fatally in two hundred and twenty-two of the former and six of the latter group.” From these facts it is clear that in the state- ment of Mr. Erichsen there is an error of excess, for the total number of cases is comparatively small, Avhen we consider the number of chest wounds recorded (20,607). This difierence of opinion is, to some extent, due to the various senses in which the term pneumonia is interpreted; it cannot be doubted that neither catarrhal nor croupous pneumonia arises from a wound, but it is clear that an inflammation, tending to suppurative action and to gangrene in the tissues in immediate relation to the wound, occurs, and may implicate a greater or less area of the lung; in this the lung does not behave diflerently from other tissues. That such is the case, apiiears very clearly in the folloAving passage:— Tins (gangrene) occurs in case of lesions caused by stabs or gunshot wounds, when under unfavorable circumstances the opening does not heal, but by means of intense • Fraentzel, Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia, vol. iv. 2 Resection of the ribs for empyema has been already referred to in the article on Excisions, Vol. IV. page 403.