NATURAL HISTORY, SCIENCE, &c. Price 3s. 6d. cloth boards, or 4s. gilt edges, ANIMAL TRAITS AND CHAEACTEEISTICS. Com- prising Anecdotes of Animals not included in the "Sketches and Anecdotes." By the Rev. J. G. Wood, M.A., F.L.S., &c. With Illustra- tions by Harrison Weir. " Young people will spend their time pleasantly and well who should be found engaged over its pages, and those very wise people, their elders, if they took it up, would certainly be instructed."—Examiner. Price 3s. 6d. each, cloth gilt, or 4s. gilt edges, LEATHERED FRIENDS. Containing Anecdotes of Bird-life, more especially Eagles, Vultures, Hawks, Magpies, Rooks, ^rows. Ravens, Parrots, Humming Birds, Ostriches, &c. &c. By the Rev. J. Q". Wood. With Illustrations by Harrison Weir. ** The author's endeavour has been to show the life and the character of the creatures described rather than their outward shape, the strictly scientific part of the subject having been treated of elsewhere. He has avoided the use of harsh scientific terms, and has, in every case where it has been practicable, exchanged Greek and Latin words for simple English. An attempt has also been made to show how the nature of the lower animals is raised and modified, their reason developed, and their instinct brought under subjection, when they come in famihar contact with man—the highest of the animal creation." Fcap. 8vo, price 3s. 6d. cloth, or 4s. gilt edges, WHITE'S NATUEAL HISTOEY OF SELBOENE. A New Edition. Edited by the Hev. J. Gr. Wood, and illustrated with above 200 Illustrations by W. Harvey. Finely printed. " A very superior edition of this most popular work."—Times. "Is a pleasant-looking volume, liberally illustrated with excellent pictures of nearly every animal or tree therein mentioned."—Examiner. Foolscap, price 3s. 6d. cloth gilt, or 4s. gilt edges, BEITISH BUTTEEFLIES. Figures and Descriptions of every native species, with an Account of Butterfly Development, Structure, Habits, Localities, Mode of Capture, and Preservation, &c. With 71 Coloured Figures of Butterflies, all of exact life-size, and 67 Figures of Caterpillars, Chrysalides, Eggs, Scales, &c. By W. S. Coleman, Member of the Entomological Society of London. \* A Cheap Edition,, with plain plates, fancy boards, price Is. "This pretty and complete little manual of British Butterflies is another valuable contribution lo popular scientific literature, and may be safely recommended to all who have a hobby for collecting that beautiful class of insects.*'—Critic. Cloth limp, price Is. riAGE AND SINGING BIEDS: how to Catch, Keep, ^ Breed, and Eear them ; with Full Directionr, as to their Nature, Food, Diseases, &c. By H. Adams. With 22 Illustrations. 6 2