18 STANDARD AND POPULAR WORKS. THE RIFLE. In fcap. 8vo, price 2s. 6d. half-bound, rFHE ETFLE, AND HOW TO USE IT. Comprising a description of that valuable Weapon in all its varieties. By Hans Busk, M.A., Captain, Victoria Rifles. With numerous Illustrations. Seventh Edition, with much additional matter, and a Portrait of the Author. *'We venture to say that this work is an acquisition to all who are interested practically or scientifically, in the study of the Rifle and its efiects."—Military Spectator. ''Decidedly the best work on the subject of Rifles that has appeared.*'— Brighton Guardian. " Contains all that is requisite for the instruction and guidance of the young rifleman."—Morning Fast. In fcap. 8vo, price 2s. 6d. half-bound, HANDBOOK EOR HYTHE. Comprising a familiar Ex- planation of the Laws of Projectiles, and an Introduction to the System of Musketry now adopted by all Military Powers. By Hans Busk. With numerous Practical Illustrations. " In preparing this Handbook for the press, I have had two objects in view. The principal one was to give in a condensed form the information ordinarily imparted during one of the regular courses of musketry instruction at Hythe, so that those who obtain access to that admirable institution, might arrive well grounded theoretically in the principles they will there find practically illustrated ; and that others, who may not have the advantage of a month's sojourn at that training ground, may teach themselves something more than the mere rudiments of the science."—The Author's Frtface. HANS BUSK'S RIFLE VOLUNTEERS. In boards. Is. 6d. with fancy cover, piELE VOLUNTEEKS, AND HOW TO DEILL THEM. ^ By Hans Busk, Author of *'The Rifle, and How to Use It," ** Navies of the World," &c. An entirely New Edition, Enlarged and Improved, with additional Illustrations. In case, price 3s. linen mounted^ HANS BUSK'S TABULAE AEEANGEMENT OF THE COMPANY DRILL, Embracing the Latest Regulations for the Line, Militia, and Volunteers. Each evolution is here arranged in so lucid a manner as to be intelligible at a glance. The use of this admirable Table will save many weary hours in the drill-yard, and will materially lessen the labour of instructors.