AGRICULTURE AND FARMING. IS In post 8vo, price 6s. half-bound, BEITISH TIMBER TREES. By John Blenkarn, C.E. The work is essentially practical—the result of long experience and observation, and will be found of especial service to Landed Proprietors, Land Agents, Solicitors, Landscape Gardeners, Nurserymen, Timber Mer- chants, Timber Valuers, Architects, Auctioneers, Civil Engineers, and all persons having the management of, or in any way connected with, the improvement of Landed Estates. In post 8vo, price 5s. half-bound, THE PIG. By William Youatt, V.S. Its History, Breed- ing, Feeding, and Management in Health and Disease. Enlarged and re-written by Samuel Sidney, Member of the Central Farmers' Club, and Author of " The Illustrated Rarey's Horse-Taming." With numerous original Illustrations. ** This work, although nominally a new edition, is substantially a new book, describing the breeds, and giving directions for bi'eeding and feeding English, Pigs. All those portions of Mr. Youatt's book which had become obsolete or of no value have been omitted, and information judiciously brought together is substituted, which, so to speak, brings our knowledge of the subject treated of down to the present moment, and shows the present practice and opinions of our most successful and intelligent breeders."—Mid Counties Herald, Mrmingham. Cloth limp, price Is., THE PIG. How to Choose, how to Breed, how to Feed, how to Cut-up, how to Cure. By W. C. L. Martin. Revised and % Improved by Samuel Sidney. '* I have condensed from the principal agricultural periodicals the pith of many capital contributions, and consulted my Pig-breeding friends in six counties. The chapters *Will a Pig pay?' 'How to choose a Pig,' 'The Chemistry of Pig-feeding,' and * Pigs for Wt:)rkhouses, * are new, and I believe, valuable additions to the volume."—Editor's Preface, Cloth limp, price Is. 6d., CATTLE: their Breeds, Management, and Diseases. To which is added THE DAIRY. By W. C. L. Martin. Revised and Improved by William and Hugh Raynbird. Fcap., price 2s. 6d. half-bound, THE HOESE : its History, Varieties, Conformation, Manasre- ment in Health and Disease. With 8 Illustrations. By Wii<LiAJt Youatt. A New Edition by Cecil, with Obser\rations on Breeding CAVALRY HORSES. %* A Cheap Edition, thin paper and limp cloth, price Is.