6 STANDARD AND POPULAR WORKfe. In fcap. 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d., GEOLOGICAL GOSSIP; or, Stray Chapters on Earth and Ocean. By Professor Ansted, M. A., F.R.S. With Illustrations, CONTENTS. Rivers and Water-Floods. The Surface of the Atlantic. The Grreat Deep and its Inhabitants. Statistics of Earthquakes. Origin of Volcanoes. Antiquity of the Human Race. &c. Origin of Rocks and Metamorphism. New Discoveries in Iron Ores. Coal-Fields and Coal Extraction. Grold Deposits. Water-Glass and Artificial Stone. Preservation of Stones. &c. Post 8vo (in the press), MINES, MINERALS, AND METALS. A Popular Descrip- tion of them and their Uses. By J. H. Pepper, late Lecturer at the Polytechnic Institution. With 300 Practical Illustrations. In square royal, price 6s., cloth extra, BEACH RAMBLES, in Search of Sea-Side Pebbles and Crystals, with Observations on the Origin of the Diamond and other Precious Stones. By J. Gr. Francis, B.A. With 14 Illustrations, designed by Coleman, and piinted in Colours by Evans. ** What Mr. Gosse's books are to marine objects this vokime is to ths pebbles and crystals with which our shores are strewn. It is an indispensable companion to every sea-side stroller."—Bell's Messenger. Price 2s. 6d. cloth gilt, or 3s. gilt edges. THE OEBS OF HEAYEN; or, The Planetary and Stellar Worlds. A Popular Exposition of the great Discoveries and Theories of Modern Astronomy. By 0. M. Mitchell. Eleventh Edition, with many Illustrations. " This volume contains a graphic and popular exposition of the great dis- coveries of astronomical science, inchiding those made by Lord Rosso (illustrated by several engravings), Leverrier, and Maedler. The Cincinnati Observatory owes its origin to the remarkable interest excited by the delivery of these Lectures to a succession of crowded audiences." Fcap. 8vo, price 5s., cloth gilt, with Coloured Illustrations, THE LAWS OE CONTRAST OE COLOUE, and their application to the Fine Arts of Painting, Decoration of Buildings, i Mosaic Work, Tapestry and Carpet Weaving, Calico Printing, Dress, Paper Staining, Printing, Illumination, Landscape and Flower Gardening. By M. E. Chevreul, Director of the Dye Works of the Gfobelins. Translated by John Spanton. A Cheap Edition, without the Coloured Plates, price 2s. cloth. "Every one whose business hss anything to do with the arrangement o* colours should possess this book. Its value has been univei-sally acknowledged, having been translated into various languages, although but recently iuto our own."