2 • STANDARD AND POPULAR WORKS. In royal 8vo, handsomely bound in cloth, price 18s. THE ILLUSTRATED NATURAL HISTORY. Eirst Volume—Mammalia. By the Rev. J. Gr. Wood, M.A., F.L.S. "With 480 Illustrations by Wolf, Zwecker, Harrison Weir, Harvey, Coleman, &c. ; engraved by the Brothers Dalziel. This superb Volume, containing no less than SOS pages, beautifully printed, and embellished with a profusion of admirable representations of animal life by the most eminent artists of the day, completes the important class of Mammalia. The Publishers refer with much satisfaction to the success of this great undertaking already achieved, and they trust that the execution of the work as far as it has now progressed, will be accepted by the subscribers as a sufficient guarantee for its adequate treatment until it be completed. The Illustrated Natural History—Birds—This Volume is now 'progressing in Monthly Parts^ price One Shilling each. It will he completed in October^ 1861, and will form a Volumey price I85., uniform, with that of Mammalia, In small post 8vo (nearly ready), NATUEAL HISTORY NOTES. With Reflections on Reason and Instinct by the Rev. J. C. Atkinson, Author of Play Hours and Half Holidays." With 100 Illustrations by Coleman. In cloth gilt, price 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges, 4s., THE COMMON OBJECTS OF THE COUNTRY. By the Eev. J. Gr. Wood. With Illustrations by Coleman, containing 150 of the Objects," beautifully printed in Colours. This book gives short and simple descriptions of the numerous objects that are to be found in our fields, woods, and waters. Also, a Cheap Edition, price Is., in Fancy Boards, with plain Plates. In fcap. 8vo, price 3s. 6d. cloth lettered, THE COMMON OBJECTS OE THE SEA-SHOEE. With Hints for the Aquarium. By the Rev. J. Gr. Wood. The Fine Edition with the Illustrations by Gr. B. Sowerby, beautifully printed in colours. Also, price Is., a Cheap Edition, with the Plates plain. *' This little work is of low price, but of high value, and is just the book to bo put into the haads of persons (and there are many such), whether young or old, who 'having eyes,' have hitherto 'seen not' those 'common objects* which bear withm themselves whole cabinets of wonders.—Globe. Price 3s. 6d. cloth gilt, or 4s. gilt edges, CKETCHES AND ANECDOTES OF ANIMAL LIFE. ^ By the Rev. J. G. Wood, M.A., F.L.S., &c. With Eight Illustrations by Harrison Weir. "A fresh spirit pervades the book, as well in the narratives as the descrip- tive account of the nature and habits of the animals."—Spectator. "Is replete with interest and information, and will be a valuable work to the rising generation."-—iV^eM?« of the World*