X DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES. board, fig. 6, and is used to dry meteors, liqueur rings, and every candy, as directed at page 44, JTo. 17. Figure 6.—A stove, or cupboard, made of iron, contain- ing nine cases, on three shelves, which, by means of pivots placed on the outside of the cupboard, may be moved in a slanting direction, to let the syrup flow off: these shelves are kept in the position required, by pins adapted to small square holes in a quarter circle; near the bottom there must be a sort of basin, formed like a funnel, to receive the drainings of the nine boxes, and conduct it into a pan at the bottom of the stove. The cupboard receives heat, which may be carried to 140 degrees, by a single pipe fixed to a stove in the laboratory, whose smoke is carried into a chimney near at hand; the heat may be applied according to the situation, observing that it should always proceed from the bottom of the stove. When the cupboard is shut, it shows a circular opening, which may be closed at pleasure, to evaporate the heat when in excess; on the opening is a dial, to mark the hour when the candy is put in the stove, and the time when it should be withdrawn, in order to secure exactness in the process. This stove" was invented by the Author ; it is extremely convenient, and he uses it with complete success.—See page 48, No. 25.—Ligueur Rings in Candy, Figure 7.—A frame, twelve inches square, made of tin, divided into small squares, used for cutting out barley-sugar tablets.—See page 54, No. 37. These squares vary in shape, according to the size you would have your tablets. Figure 8.—A copper funnel, which must be provided with a stick to fit the aperture, moveable at will: it is an imple- ment of the greatest utility, and was invented by the Author for Liqueur Drops, and various other articles.—See page 74, No. 79. Figure 9.—A funnel with a screw, without which it would be impossible to make the little jewel drops (page 77, No. 83) uniform, and perfect in shape and size. The Author in- vented this tool, and the frame which receives the drops,