16 STATOARD AND POPULAR WORKS. Post 8vo, price 6s., half-bound, DOGS : THEIR MANAGEMENT, &c. Being a New Plaa of treating the Animal, based upon a consideration of his natural iemperament. Illustrated with numerous Woodcuts, by Harrison Weir, depicting the character and position of the Dog, when suffering disease. By Edward Mayhew. This is the only work of the kind. "To all possessors of dogs, we say, purchase and study Mr. Mayhew's book."—Belt's Life. "All owners of dogs should purchase this admirable work."—Observer. Also, a Cheap Edition, in limp cloth, price Is. 6d. Price 5s., half-bound, HOESES AND HOUNDS. A Practical Treatise on their Management. By Scrutator. To which is added "The Taming of Wild Horses," by J. S. Rarey. With Illustrations by Harrison Weir. ** A most ably-written, clearly-arranged, and graphically-illustrated volume on hunting, holies, aud hounds."—Bell's Life. Cloth limp, price Is., SHOOTING: a Manual of Practical Information on this branch of British Field Sports. By Robert Blakey. Contents :—The Gun—The Dog—Modes of using the Gun and the Dog —Grouse—Partridge—Pheasant— Quail—Woodcock — Snipe — Bustard— Fen-bird—Sea-fowl—Rook—Pigeon—Small Birds—Rabbit—Deer—Gam© Laws, &c. In fcap., 2s., boards, or 2s. 6d. bound ; 250 pages, RAEEY ON HOESE TAMING. Illustrated Edition, with important Additions ; the substance of all Mr. Rarey's Lectures on iSorse Taming, with Seven full page Woodcuts and Seven Vignettes, showing every stage of the process, and every Strap, Bit, &c., employed in Taming. Also Directions for Teaching Children to Ride—On Riding for Oirls—How to Mount—To use the Reins—On the Choice of Bridles, Saddles, and Bits, with Four Woodcuts—On Dress for Ladies and Gentle- men—and also on Hunting, with hints, axioms, and anecdotes, for the instruction of beginners in the ** noble science "—Hunting terms, &c., &c. **Ifc is replete with practical instructions for taming the noble animal, anecdotes of military and hunting men, hints to ladies on their riding cos- tume, and directions for riding, breaking, and harnessing horses for the field or road."—Sporting Review. Fcap., price Is. 6d. in fancy boards, or 2s. cloth gilt, THE SOLITAEY HUNTEE; or, Sportino^ Adventures in the Prairies. By John Palliser, Esq. With Illustrations. The Adventures of this Solitary Hunter amongst buffalos, bears, aud wolves are unsurpassed in interest.