12 STAN-DARD AND POPITLAB WORKS. AGBICUIiTUIlE AND PABMII^a. —♦ MECHI'S SYSTEM OF FARMING. Price 3s. boards, or 3s. 6d. half-bound, HOW TO PARM PROFITABLY; or, the Sayings and ' Doings of Mr. Alderman Mechi. With a Portrait and three other Illustrations, from Photographs by Mayall. New Edition, with additions. The above work contains : Mr. Mechi's account of the Agricultural im- provements carried on at the Tiptree Estate—His Lectures, Speeches, Correspondence, and Balance Sheets—and is a faithful history of his Agri- cultural career during the last fifteen years. %* In this Edition is incorporated Mr. Mechi's valuable Pamphlets on TOWN SEWAGE and STEAM PLOUaHINa. In 1 vol. price 6s. half-bound, EHAM'S DICTIONARY OF THE FARM. A New Edition, entirely Revised and Re-edited, with Supplementary Matter, by W. and Huan Raynbird. With numerous Illustrations. This book, which has always been looked up to as a useful and general one for reference on all subjects connected with country life and rural economy, has undergone an entire revision by its present editors, and many new articles on agricultural implements, artificial manures, bones, draining, guano, labour, and a practical paper upon the subject of animal, bird, and insect vermin inserted, which at once renders it an invaluable work for all who take pleasure in, or make a business of, rural pursuits. Limp cloth, price Is., SMALL FAEMS. A Practical Treatise intended for Persons inexperienced in Husbandry, but desirous of employing time and capital in the cultivation of the soil. By Martin Dotlb. In fcap. 8vo, price 2s. cloth boards, or Is. 6d. cloth limp, AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. Comprising Chemistry of the Atmosphere, Chemistry of the Soil, Water, Plants—Means of Restoring the impaired Fertility of Land exhausted by the growth of Culti- vated Crops, and of improving Land naturally Infertile—Vegetable and Animal Produce of the Farm. By Alfred Sibson (Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester), with a Preface by Dr. Augustus Voelcker, Consulting Chemist of the Royal Agricultural Society. With Illustrations. " This is an excellent treatise—comprehensive, full of most useful, and, to tho agriculturist, necessary information. It enters fully into the composition and various physical conditions of soil, atmosphere, and other agents which . contribute to agricultural results. It should be in the possession of every agriculturist in the kingdom."—Weekly Time*. '