STANDARD Al^D POPULAR WORKS. In 4 Vols. 8vo,'price £1 10s., cloth lettered, •pUSSELL'S MODERN EUROPE, with a View of the J-*' Progress of Society from tlie Rise of the Modern Kingdoms. A New Edition, continued to the Peace of Paris, 18.56, to which is added a com- pendious Index, compiled expressly for this Edition, The Fourth Volume (from the year 18Q2 to 1856) is sold separately, price 10s. 6d. It forms the best handbook of General,. History for the last half-century that can be had. All the Candidates for the Government Civil Service are examined in ** RusaelVs Modern Europe^'''' as to their knowledge of General History. In 1 Vol. price 6s., cloth lettered, •pUSSELL'S MODERN EUROPE EPITOMIZED. Eor -^-^ the Use of Students and Schools, with an Index, forming a com- plete Text-jPook of Modern History ; a perfect Treasury of Facts, Dates, and Important Events ; the History of Kingdoms and States ; and Lives of celebrated Characters. By Gteorgb Townsend. " This is an admirably executed and elegantly printed epitome of the best modern history in our language. The epitomiser has performed his task in a masterly style, exercising a sound judgment in giving prominence to the more interesting portions of his subject, bringing them out in full and bold relief on the map <'f the past, and describing them at greater length, while he has abridged less important matters, but without interruptiui^ the thread of the narrative. We have thus supplied what has long be n wanting to eveiy student of English literature—a thoroughly trustworthy handbook, in which the chief events of modern history are set forth in a clear, concise, and intel- ligent form."—Morning Herald. AII Candidates for offices in Her Majesty*s Civil Service are examined in RusselVs Modern Ev/rope.^^ In 3 Vols, post 8vo, price 10s. 6d,, cloth lettered, MICHAUD'S HISTOEY OF THE CRUSADES. The First English Edition translated from the French. . With Notes. Memoir and Preface by W. Robson. Post 8vo, price 6s., cloth lettered, "DONNECHOSE'S HISTOEY OF FEANCE. The First ^ English Edition, with Indsy- Transiatea oy W. Robson, Esq., Translator of Michaud s History of the Crusades," &c. Fcap., cloth, price Is., HTHE HISTOEY OF FEANCE from the CONQUEST of -A- GAUL BY THE ROMANS to the PEACE OF 1856. By Amelia B. Edwards. **This is the best condensation of Frpnch History that we are acquainted with, for the author has very successfully managed to give a very large number of facts in a very limited space."—Statesman. "Is a volume that cannot fail to prove useful, especially to the youthful student, who has here a faithful and concise history of the events of four-and- twenty centuries. "--i\raiio7ial Standard.