17 SPORTING AT HOME AND ABROAD. Post 8vo, cloth, price 5s., THE TOMMIEBEG SHOOTINGS; or, A Moor in Scot- land. By Thomas Jeans. "With Illustrations. This highly amusing volume shows how Mr. Brixey and Mr. Fribbles, two •gentlemen about town,' were induced by an alluring advertisement to ' tak a muir' in Scotland; how they equipped themselves for the occasion; what happened by the way ; their astonishment at the naked f(wts when they reached their sporting grounds ; how they opportunely picked up ' a friend m need, a certain Captain Downey, and profited thereby ; the humorous sporting adven- ture that befel them, and other diverting incidents, until the final mterestmg consummation. In 1 Vol. post 8vo, price 5s. half-bound, SPOETING SCENES AMONG THE KAEEIES OF SOUTH AFRICA. By Capt. Drayson, R.A. With 8 Large Illus- trations, by Harrison Weir, from Sketches by the Author. *• Captain Drayson's work will (as far as adventurous sports are concerned) take its place by the side of those of Gordon Cumming and Jules Gerard, and its literary merit surpasses them. The author seems to delight in recounting the stirring incidents in which ho has taken part; hence the truthful picture of the scenes of his sporting triumphs. The volume is not only interesting, but instructive ; it contains much valuable information of the Kaffirs and . their country, intermixed with sensible remarks, sparkling language, and humorous anecdotes."—Leader. "To the lovers of field sports this book will be a perfect treat. Every chapter is rich in amusing or startling stories."—Suncia?/ Times. Post Svo, price 3s. 6d. cloth extra, or 4s. gilt edges, WILD SPOETS IN THE FAE WEST. By Erederick Gerstaecker. Translated from the German. With numerous Tinted Illustrations by Harrison Weir. " The volume is one for the majority of readers. For the sportsman whose quarry is not the partridge or the grouse, but the buffalo, the bear, and tha hart and hind of the mountain; for the admirer of descriptions of grand scenery ; and for him who is curious to know the habits of the dwellers in the settlements furthest removed from what is called civilization. The tinted illustrations add much to the attraction of the work."—Observer. A Cheap Edition, without illustrations, price Is. 6d. boards. Post Svo, price 5 s. cloth extra, SPOETING IN BOTH HEMISPHEEES. By J. D'Ewes, Author of "China, Australia, and the Pacific Islands." With Illus- trations by Harrison Weir. Printed in Colours. "This volume is filled with a narrative of spirit-stirring adventures, which will be eagerly read and greatly admired."—BelVs Messenger. In fcap. Svo, price 6d. fancy boards, DAY WITH THE BEOOKSIDE HAEEIEES. By Sir ^ Richard Levinqe, Bart., M.P. " The author has a gossiping, familiar, agreeable, and natural style of jotting down his thoughts, without committing the dreadful sin of amateurs, that of straining after fun, and eternally poking jokes at their readers."—Covat Jovmal,