88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURCill. 17 Illustrative of the Civil and Ecclesiastical Divisions in the Tenth and Thirteenth Centuries. 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d. "AH who wish to lenrn what early Scotland really wai3, will prize it highly."—Scotsman, January 7. " The students of the Edinburgh University have reason to be congra- tulated on the qualities of their Professor of History, and the general public ought to be thankful for this volume." . . . " More of real his- tory may here be learned in a few liours than from some more pretentious works in as many weeks; and, what is still better, ingenuous youth, if ingenuous indeed, will here take a noble enthusiasm, which will stimulate to long, laborious, and delightful research."—Dial, November 9. Concerning Some Scotch Surnames. 1 vol., small 4to, cloth antique, 5s. " We can safely recommend this volume to those who are interested in the subject."—Caledonian Mercury, October 26. "Those fond of etymological pursuits will find in it matter to interest them; and the general reader cannot open it without finding in it some- thing that will suit even his capricious taste."—Atlas, October 27. Instructive Picture Books. 3 vols., folio, boards, 10s. 6d. each. I. The Instructive Picture Book. A few Attractive Lessons from the Natural History of Animals. By Adam White, Assistant, Zoological Department, British Museum. With 68 folio coloured Plates. Fourth Edition, containing many new Illustrations by J. B., J. Stewart, and others. II. The Instructive Picture Book. Lessons from the Vegetable World. By the Author of " The Heir of Redcliffe," " The Herb of the Field," &c. 62 folio coloured Plates, arranged by Robert M. Stark, Edinburgh. III. The Instructive Picture Book. Lessons from the Geographical Distribution of Animals; or, The Natural History of the Quadrupeds which Characterize the Principal Divi.sions of the Globe. By M. H. H. .1. 60 folio coloured Illustrations. The New Picttu-e Book. Pictorial Lessons on Form, Comparison, ,ind Number, for Children under Soven Years of Age. With Explana- tions by Nicholas JJohny. 30 oblong folio coloured Illustrations.