With /he Coinpliments of the Author. A PLEA FOR A METHODICALLY - WRITTEN TEXT-BOOK ON ANATOMY. BY EDMOND SOUCHON, M.D., PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND CLINICAL SURGERY, TULANE UNIVERSITY, NEW ORLEANS, LA. from THE MEDICAL NEWS, November 17, 1894.[Reprinted from The Medical News, November 17, 1894.] A PLEA FOR A METH0DICALLY- WRITTEN TEXT- BOOK ON ANATOMY} By EDMOND SOUCHON, M.D., PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND CLINICAL SURGERY, TULANE UNIVERSITY, NEW ORLEANS, LA. It is my belief that students of anatomy would better learn and remember the innumerable and more or less complicated facts of anatomy if they had at their disposal a text-book written with con- stant uniformity and rigorous method. The guide or course followed in describing the organs should be inexorably systematic and always the same for each and every one of the organs, and should apply as well to the largest organs as to the smallest, even to a cell. It might be dry and monotonous reading for the cursory reader or for office-reading, but it would be of the greatest assistance to those who have to learn and to remember. It is true that all text-books on anatomy have about the same main divisions or headings in describing an organ, but it is specially in the details and smaller things under those headings that the students need systematic and uniform assistance. All superfluous words, remarks and dissertations were better omitted, so as to leave the facts as simple and prominent as 1 Read at the meeting of the Association of American Anatom- sts, at Washington, D. C., May 29, 1894.2 possible ; but the guide does not interfere with ex- tensive descriptions. Students of ordinary intelligence can readily sup- ply in their own minds connecting words, and even sentences. Thus such ponderous books as we now see carried around by students would be reduced one-third or one-half. I have elaborated such a guide, and I here present it for consideration to the members of the associa- tion. Of course, the guide or course describing an organ should be followed more or less closely accord- ing to the importance of the organ or of the facts connected with it. If some facts connected with one particular part are of no importance, they should be skipped, and stress should be laid upon those facts only which present a practical bearing or a scientific interest. It would be essential to follow the guide system- atically, as one fact is so intimately connected with the following one that the place where to say it can- not very well be altered without disturbing the harmony of the whole. There is a place for every- thing, and everything should be in its place. We should say at the beginning what belongs there, and not say it in the middle of the description. Again, we must say in the middle of it what belongs there, and not say it at the end. It may seem difficult and complicated at first, but after one has committed the guide thoroughly to memory, so as to have it at the tongue’s end with- out hesitating to think, it will be seen how smoothly it works, and how much it will assist. It is impos- sible to forget or skip anything, as every few words3 almost in the guide call for an answer at its proper place, which answer is easily remembered by one who has studied the organ two or three times with this severe system and training. In describing an organ we should give: ist. Definition of the organ, its synonymy and etymol- ogy ; 2d. Divide the organ into separate parts, if necessary; 3d. State the number; 4th. The dimen- sions; 5th. The situation ; 6th. The direction ; 7th. The means of fixity; 8th. The mobility; 9th. The shape; 10th. The surfaces, borders, angles, or extremities, as base and apex; nth. The struc- ture. To avoid repetition the definition should be based upon the function If the organ is a complex one, such as are sphe- noid and temporal bones, it is important to divide it into several parts, describing each part as a separate organ. In connection with the number, it should be stated whether the organ under description is single or double, and whether there are not sometimes supernumerary organs, such as the spleen, of which in some instances there may be one, two, or three supernumerary organs; also, whether in cases of double organs they are known to unite sometimes to form but one, such as is the case occasionally with the two kidneys, which unite by their extremi- ties to form the so-called “ horse-shoe kidney.” We must say, also, if the organ is ever known to be absent altogether. The dimensions should be described, either by comparing the organ to some familiarly4 known object or to some other organ of the human body (this is the relative dimension), or by actual measurement in inches or fractions (these are the absolute dimensions . When the organ is a hollow tube or a channel one should give the dimensions of its caliber or bore. The situation should be first stated in a general way, or in regard to the region it occupies; then its relative position should be mentioned, that is, the position it occupies in regard to the surrounding organs ; thus, for the spleen, we say it is situated in the left hypochrondrium, below the diaphragm, above the kidney, behind the stomach, etc. The direction piHMpt should be stated first as compared with the axis of the body, and then as compared with its own axis; thus, the fibula is ver- tically directed as compared with the axis of the body, and is twisted as regards its own axis. The means of fixity are either con- nections by adhesions through more or less loose or tough connective tissue, or ligaments formed of folds of the membranes enclosing them, or by vessels, or they are supported by organs situated beneath; thus, the liver has ligaments formed by the peritoneum; its upper border is closely adherent to the diaphragm by rather tough connective tissue, it is partially held in position by the hepatic veins passing from its substance to the ascending cava, and it is supported as on a soft cushion by the stomach and intestines. The mobility affects the whole organ or a part of it only; thus, the head and part of the body of the pancreas are firmly bound down,5 whereas the tail is more or less movable. The organ may be movable by itself, as are the intestines, or its motion is communicated by another organ, such as the motion communicated from the diaphragm to the liver. Finally, it should be stated whether at times the mobility does not become excessive without interfering with the functions; thus, the kidney will sometimes escape more or less from its bed of areolar and adipose tissue, and, with- out impairing its usefulness, float about in the ab- domen. The shape SOfiBipt should be next consid- ered. It is very important to define it accurately, either by comparing it to a geometric figure, or by comparing it to the shape of a familiarly-known thing, because, according to its shape, an organ presents more or less surfaces, borders, angles, or extremities, or a base and an apex. In describing each surface we should mention the other names by which it is known, also its ex- tent, whether it is large or small; also its direction, whether it is directed forward or backward, above or below, or in an intermediate direction; also the form or shape of that surface, whether it is plane or concave or convex, either in the vertical or the horizontal direction, and if it is or is not the same all over the surface; also its peculiarities, which are represented either by projections (folds, processes, tubercles, protuberances, ridges, or crests) or by depressions (orifices, blind foramina, grooves, canals). When enumerating numerous peculiarities we should invariably begin on the median line and then on the sides, proceeding always from before *6 backward, and from above downward, and from within outward. In describing a groove we should say if it leads or not to a canal, its depth and the organs contained therein, artery, vein, nerve, or a mem- branous process, or a special organ. In mention- ing an orifice we should describe its size, shape, boundaries, structure, and contents. Finally, we should give the relations of the surface, which may be with skin (i. e., what part of the surface of the body its course corresponds to) ; or with bones, joints, muscles, viscera, vessels, nerves. The same course is to be followed in describing a border; first, give its other names; then its extent, then its shape; say if it is blunt or sharp, or bevelled at the expense of one surface or the other. All thick borders should be divided into two edges or lips, and an intermediate interstice, giving the peculiarities and relations of each, then its relative direction, whether vertical, horizontal, oblique, for- ward or backward, above or below, inward or out- ward ; afterward, its absolute direction, rectilinear or sinuous, concave or convex; next mention its peculiarities and its relations, following the same course as for a surface. The same course applies to the description of the angles of the organ, or to its extremities, or to the base and apex, if it should have any. It is now the time to describe the structure m This should always be preceded by men- tion of its color and its consistency, as these prop- erties are connected with the structure. In speak- ing of its consistency we must say whether the7 organ is soft or hard, friable or not, elastic, dilatable, or retractile. As regards the structure we should first describe the envelops; a great many organs and most viscera are provided with a serous coat, reduced to its endothelial layer. Next comes a fibrous or fibro-elastic and muscular coat, bearing or not a special name or several names, varying in thickness and resistance, more or less elastic, pre- senting an external surface more or less elastic, and more or less closely connected with the surrounding tissues and organs; an internal surface more or less intimately connected with the proper tissue or sub- stance of the organ, and sending into this proper tissue filaments or processes that divide the interior fSinto a large number of alveoles, in which are deposited the proper or characteristic anatomic elements of the organ. Almost always the fibrous coat is reflected at the point called the hilum into the interior of the organ, and then divides into smaller and smaller processes, which join those given off from the inner surface, and assist in forming the alveoles. The whole of these processes and the alveoles which they form con- stitute what is called the stroma or fibrous skele- ton of the organ, which supports the more delicate elements of the proper substance. This stroma is more or less apparent, according to the organ; it is, like the fibrous coat, formed of more or less dense connective tissue, to which is often added elastic fibers and smooth muscular fibers in greater or lesser quantity. The proper substance of many organs is divided into an external or cortical sub- stance and into an internal or medullary.8 The proper or characteristic elements! are either cells or fibers, tubes, or prisms, arranged in a peculiar manner according to the organ, to which are added capillary arteries, veins, and lym- phatics, and nervous filaments. The capillaries in many organs present a most interesting and often characteristic arrangement. If the organ described is a gland with an excretory duct, that duct should be described as a separate organ. If the organ is a hollow one, like the stomach or the heart, we should describe the interior with its lining mem- brane. We should mention with care the consist- ency of the membrane, its thickness, its elasticity, degree of adhesion of its deep surface, and in regard to its free surface, its color, its peculiarities, the nature of its epithelium, and, if any, the kind of glands which it contains. Some organs present a peculiarly interesting chemic composition which should be mentioned. Usually the point of interest lies in the relative amounts of the higher organic and the lesser organic elements. To be thorough the mode of development 4PPB should now be given, and the changes that it undergoes from its embryonic formation to the very oldest age. Finally, in a last paragraph, we should mention the peculiarities and varieties due to sex, habits, trades, constitutions, individualities, nationalities, and races. The same course is applicable to bones, ligaments, vessels, and nerves, although it may seem odd at first, since it is quite a departure from the old plan. It would be a waste of time before such an9 audience to give any example by actually describing a muscle or a nerve after this plan. All the foregoing points and details are summar- ized in the following table : Guide to Describe an Organ (applicable to all organs), 1. Definition. Synonymy, etymology, history. 2. Division of a complicated organ into separate por- tions and description of each portion as a sepa- rate organ. 3. Number. Single or double. Supernumerary organs. Absence of the organ. 4. Dimensions. 1. Relative size, or size compared to other organs or to familiar objects. 2. Absolute size. Diameter, transverse, vertical, antero-pos- terior; caliber. 5. Situation. 1. General situation or region it occupies. 2. Relative situation, as compared to the sur- rounding organs. 6. Direction. 1. Compared with axis of body. 2. Compared with its own axis. 7. Means of fixity. Adhesions. Ligaments. Vascular connections. Supported by other organs. 8. Mobility. Of the whole organ. Of a part of it.IO Intrinsic mobility. Extrinsic mobility, or communicated by other organs. Extent of mobility. Exceptional mobility. 9. Shape. Compared to a geometric figure. Compared to the shape of a familiarly-known object. 10. Surfaces. Synonymy. Direction : Forward or backward. Above or below. Intermediate direction. Shape : Plane, concave, or convex. Vertical or transverse direction. Peculiarities. Projections: folds, processes,ridges, or crests, tubercles, protuberances. Depressions: orifices (size, shape, boundaries, structure, contents), blind foramina ; grooves and ca- nals (depth, extent, contents, ves- sels, nerves, or organs). When enumerating peculiarities begin on the median line, and then on the sides; proceed from before backward, from within outward, or from above downward. Relations : With skin (*. <?., to what part of the surface it corresponds) or With bones, joints. Muscles. Viscera. Vessels and nerves. 11. Borders. Synonymy. Dimensions.