230 back as the last grinder, and, there, is also broader, so as to extend more over the palate, though not much any where. It is about an inch and a half long, and nearly one and a half high, in some parts. Toward the nostril, a considerable part of the wall is membranous, and in this is a small rounded opening, into a sulcus, in the nostril, between the inferior and middle turbin- ated bones, hid by the latter, and situated at the upper part of the antrum. It is a little oblique, going downward and forward from the nostril, hence, no pi'obe can be passed from the anterior naris, into the antrum; but if acutely bent at the very end, it may be hooked into the orifice. The frontal sinus opens into the same sulcus, but a little higher and far- ther forward. In inflammation of the cavity, ending information of fluid, it has been proposed to let it out, by pulling a tooth, and perforating, up from the socket. Any of the grinders would suit this purpose, but we cannot depend on the extraction of any tooth farther forward. If all the grinders be sound, we may perforate, under the cheek, at the canine fossa. In this case, the instrument must be directed obliquely backward and upward, for, if we go upward and inward, we m^^yrunitinto the nostril. There is, however, no certain mark of collection of matter. Pain in the region, and even swelling, are not sure indications. Muco-purulent discharges may follow the pulling of a tooth, carious, or loose, and by keeping the parts clean, and injecting tepid water, a cure is slowly obtained. If the gum swell, so as to obstruct the discharge, a bit of bougie will keep the orifice patent. Enlargement of the bone may gradually diminish, after the matter is evacuated, but in a dis- ease, when swelling takes place, there is too much reason to suppose, not that matter is retained, but that the bone is dis- eased, or a species of exostosis formed, or, more probably, a fungus contained within the antrum. This also may begin in the gum, and extend to the antrum. The mucous mem- brane, reflected from the cheek and lip, is thick, firm, vascu- lar, and easily dissected down to the teeth. It is connected to the periosteum, by dense cellular substance, forming