41 say, there is quite the reverse of general or surrounding swelling, though this may also take place. According to the nai'i'owness of the induration, and the straightness of the canal passing through it, will, ceteris paribus, be the ease of passing an instrument. The first circumstance which calls the atten- tion of the patient to the local diseases, is difficulty of swallow- ing a morsel of the same size he used to do. Even that size • which can still pass, requires to be swallowed more slowly. He is obliged to chew more completely liis food, and put less at a time into his mouth, otherwise the morsel sticks in the passage, and he has much spasmodic action excited. The constrictors are thrown into strong action, and operate on the larynx, so that, independent of any pressure by the morsel from behind, there is difficulty of breathing, with livid face. If the morsel cannot be forced down, the muscles, after a struggle, invert their action, and it is brought up along with much viscid or glairy mucus from the pharynx. Very early, sometimes before any dysphagia appears, the digestion is im- paired, and the bowels are generally torpid. The indigestion increases with the complaint, and the bowels become more costive. The countenance is sallow, and the body wastes, whilst the strength sinks from want of nourishment, from the sympathetic effects of the disease on the system, independent of mechanical causes, and from the frequent and severe fits of struggling and suffering which are produced. Death may then take place, before obstruction be complete; but life may be protracted, till the canal be completely closed. In such cases, and in those approaching to them, the pharynx is much distended. I have seen a patient able to retain for a time, without much inconvenience, several ounces of fluid, which at last was vomited. In a case where the obstruction was seated just above the cardia, and was about an inch and a half long, the oesophagus above was enlarged to more than double its natural size. In all cases where we suspect this disease to exist, we may ascertain it by the probang, which ought to have a bit of soft sponge firmly attached to its extremity. The whalebone should be so slender, as to be easily pliable, as it thereby runs more readily along tlie pharynx. It is to be