427 at once to introduce the silver'catheter of full size. If it go in readily, so far well. If it be obstructed, we generally succeed by allowing the point to remain for a little in con- tact with the contracted part, or we make only the slightest pressure. Presently, the resistence yields. If it should not, we try a smaller catheter. If there be pain, and tenderness of the part, and especially if the pulse be quick, and the skin hot, we let.blood from the arm, and use the hip bath. Should we still fail, a very small, smooth, elastic catheter, without a wii*e, is to be introduced. It stops, perhaps, at the spot; but, if kept there for a minute, the water often flows by the side of the catheter, which can now be passed into the blad- der. A fine catheter, with a wire, requires much caution. If the wire be intended to enable us to use force, it only puts it ’in our power to pierce the urethra. Should we still fail, and bleeding have been premised, if the part be tender, then we pass down a sound, having a depression on its point, which we fill with soft wax, and sink into it a minute bit of alkaline caustic. This is gently pressed against the obstruc- tion ; and, if the sound itself do not pass, we often find that the patient exclaims he is going to make water, and it fol- lows the sound when withdrawn, or, if not, we are now able to pass a small catheter. Distension of the bladder, if long continued, may be followed by inflammation of that viscus,and adhesion of the fundus to the peritonaeum lining the abdomen. I have known the point of adhesion to thicken so, by deposi- tion of fibrin, as to form a tumour, felt externally below the umbilicus. In this case, it is evident, that, although the patient may frequently void water, or even have an inconti- nence of urine, yet he never can empty his bladder. In permanent stricture, inflammation may take place be- hind the obstruction, and the urethra either slough there, and the urine find its way under the fascia, or the circum- jacent cellular substance inflames, and an abscess forms, which communicates with the urethra. It both discharges pus by the urethra, and can receive urine from it. This state can- not last long. The coats of the abscess give way, and urine is immediatedly infiltrated into the neighbouring parts. We