320 1 he Spiual, is behind the artery, till fully half an inch below the fold of the axilla, or latissimus dorsi. It, then, be- gins to wind outward, and, at three inches, is behind the bone, and about midway down the arm, it is fairly to its outside. It is placed, after leaving the latissimus, between the first and second head of the triceps, or, partly, on the face of the longus, then, it is lodged, for a little, between the second and third heads. It passes behind the bone, just where the second head ceases to rise by tendon from the bone, and runs be- tween it, and the origin of the brevis, so that its boundary there is tendinous. It then descends, buried deeply, first, between the triceps and brachieus, and then between the bi’achieus and supinator longus, in a sulcus between the two layers of the former. Between these, it is guided for- ward, to the front of the outer condyle, where it subdivides for the fore-arm. In its course behind the bone, it is accom- panied by the spiral artery, with its corresponding veins; their relation will soon be mentioned. Several branches are given off in the arm. Even when on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, it often gives off one or two rami, which wind over the tendon to the triceps, beneath the aponeurosis. Just after passing the tendon, it frequently gives off a small, but long branch, which descends on the triceps, covered by the ulnar nerve, to the elbow joint, where, getting anterior to the ulnar, it enters the brachieus internus. Sometimes, two pretty large bx’anches, but always one, may be found coming off from the trunk, before it crosses behind the bone. If only one, it runs sometimes behind, but, generally before the trunk, but adherent to it for some time. This divaricates outward, between the triceps and brachieus, giving off a branch which becomes cutaneous. The trunk continues deep, gets, for a short way, between the supinator longus and triceps, and about two inches and a half above the joint, appears on the outer margin of the supinator, and subdivides into two, the one division, running down on the back of the side of the fore-arm, the other, more on the side, scarcely in front. The external cutaneous, is more forward, on the fore-arm than these, which are, like it, superficial.