487 comes forward to its margin, and soon descends on its surface, then it gets on the rectus and vastus internus, down to the inside of the patella, dividing, higher or lower, into two branches. It is sometimes a branch of the sartorian nerve. Fifth, The Cutaneus internus, comes off immediately below the ligament, passes inward, under the vessels, and is distributed at the inside of the thigh, over the pectineus, adductor longus, and gracilis. It is small, and not very regular. Tumours pressing on any of these nerves, or blows in- flicted, may produce either pain, numbness, or distressing feeling of heat in the skin. A bruise, for example, over the spine of the ilium, by affecting the external cutaneous nerve, may produce pain in the knee. Behind, the great sciatic nerve (page 400), comes out from below the pyriformis, and passes down between the tuberosity and trochanter, across the gemelli and quadratus, to the triceps magnus, along the back of which it descends, covered, first, by the gluteus maximus, and then, by the biceps, and other flexor muscles, and exposed, by separating the former from the latter, in the median line. The two sets of ham-string muscles divaricate, after passing the middle of the thigh; and, on removing the fascia, which binds them in their course to the ham, we see two large nerves accompany- ing the external and internal tendons—the largest, which goes more directly down, is the tibial, the smallest, the fibular nerve. This last separates from the great nerve, about the middle of the thigh ; but, very frequently, it comes out, separately, from the pelvis, either at the upper margin, or through the substance of the pyriformis. The Cutaneous nerves, are, the posterior division of the external cutaneus, which supplies the upper and outer part of the thigh; and the Posterior cutaneus, which comes off from the sciatic soon after its exit. This subdivides into four branches, which pass down from beneath the gluteus maximus—two running parallel to each other, under the skin ; two on each division of the flexors, all the way to the ham. Although the femoral artery may be tied in any part of the thigh, yet, some places are better than others. When we