45S behind by the bone and origin of tlie pectineus; in front, by the posterior border of the channel in Poupart’s ligament; on the inside, by the crescentic implantation, and its cover- ing of fascia; on the outside, by the femoral vein. Now, what is it which tightens the herniary sac? It may be the edge of the falciform process; but this is more likely to obstruct reduction, than to be the sole seat of stricture. If we press the hernia, it is apt to curl over the process, rather than recede under it. Still, the process may not only aid the production of strangulation, but actually cause it, partly, by its own direct pressure, and, partly, from the circumstance, that its inner surface is lined, as we have seen, by a layer reflected from the crural sac, which may be thus acted on. The division of the edge has, of itself, been sufficient for permitting reduction ; and I am certain, that, in the old operation, where the ligament was supposed to be divided, it was only this part of the process which was cut. The anterior boundary of the crural sac is frequently the cause of stricture. This is formed by the pretty sharp posterior border of the channel, or groove, in the ligament, and which is stretched, or pressed on, by the sac. If, in the natural state, we insert the finger up along the pectineus into the crural aperture, or ring, we feel this edge very distinctly; and, in hernia, it must bind the parts in proportion as it is pressed forward by them. The fascia, which forms the mouth of the crural sac, adheres to this border, and if the one be stretclied, or act as a band, so must the other. The whole circumference of the fascial mouth of the crural sac may constrict the herniary sac, or this latter may, by in- flammatory action, have its neck thickened and contracted. It is necessary to make a distinction between the mouth and the neck of the sac, whether crural or herniary. The mouth of both is at the crural ring. The neck is the narrow canal, extending from that to the margin of the falciform process, where the sac expands. The sac is like a round bottle, with a short neck. In front, if the process be cut, we measure it from the anterior margin of'Poupart’s ligament to the pos- terior, which is very little higher, but more backward.