394 the side of the rectum, and to the posterior part of the side ot the bladder, we are prevented from sweeping the finger beyond the sacro-sciatic notch. In the female, on removing the peritonaeum, and separating with the finger the cellular connexion of the bladder, we find, as in the male, the fascia attached all the way down to the bottom of the pelvis, and then reflected to the bladder, vagina and rectum, the finger capable of sweeping along the angle of reflection, back to the pelvic vessels and broad liga- ment, where a layer seems to pass in toward the uterus, between the folds of the peritonaeum usually said to form that ligament. From the rectum we can trace the fascia formed on the nerves and vessels, till we are stopped in this direction by the same fold. The cavity of the pelvis, from the brim down to the obtura- tor, or for a space of near three-quarters of an inch, is devoid of muscle, and covered only by peritonaeum and fascia. The Obturator is the highest muscle, and rises as far forward as a little beyond the margin of the foramen, from the whole of the membrane of the foramen and from the plane of the ischium as far back as the notch, and as high as a line from the upper part of the foramen back to the notch. Its fibres are somewhat like a fan, the anterior ones running backward, the posterior a little forward to the'notch. It bounds all the margin of the notch, and the pyriformis passes out behind it. It turns out through the small notch as it is called, and there it is thick, partly muscular and partly tendinous, and as broad as the notch, that is about an inch. The Pyriformis behind, rises by three digitations from the 2d, 3d, and 4th divisions of the sacrum, its origin on the left side being covered by the rectum, on drawing which aside, we see the muscle adhering to the sacrum, and connected also to it at its margin by a fascia. Between the margin of the pyriformis, and the sacro- sciatic ligament is a space nearly half an inch broad, and less than an inch long, for the passage of the vessels and nerves, which we have already seen are covered by fascia. Besides this muscle, we find another of great importance, the Levator ani. If we draw a line from the spine of the ischium, for-