485 is noticed in the addendum to page 409, passes out at the pubal side of the vein, and subdivides into three. One branch runs inward, pierces the obturator, and ramifies even to the triceps magnus, gracilis, and perinaeum. A second, runs nearly in the same direction, but deeper in the obturator. A third, or rather, the trunk, goes more directly down. The internal circumflex artery sends ramuli up- ward, to join this vessel, and these may encircle the neck of a herniary sac. The relation of the femoral Vein to the artery has already been explained. It gives off the profunda, near the origin of the corresponding artery, and the trunk immediately subdivides into two—one going obliquely before, another obliquely behind, the profunda. Two venae comites attend each perforating artery. The circumflex veins come off about half an inch below the origin of the arteries, and in like manner subdivide. The external crosses the profunda, behind the femoral artery, and subdivides into numerous rami, accompanying every where the arteries, both transverse and descending. The gluteal and ischiatic veins have also branches in the thigh. The most important superficial vein, is the great saphena, which runs up, imbedded in the fascia, in a line from the back of the internal condyle to the femoral vein, which it enters within two inches of Poupart’s ligament, sometimes close by it, and about an inch and a quarter out from the tubercle. Traced upward from the condyle, it is first at the anterior, or ilial margin of the sartorius, then it passes obliquely up, on its surface, and gets to the pubal margin, about six inches below the ligament, continues so, for about three inches, and, then, leaves it, as it proceeds more directly upward to the femoral vein. Different tributary branches enter obliquely from the surface of the adductors; or often it is joined, near the ligament, by a long, though smaller, vein, which comes up a little more inward than it. The Nerves of the anterior part of the thigh are deep, or superficial. The Obturator is the deepest. It subdivides into two, immediately on issuing from the pelvis. One, either