512 only at the sides to prevent rolling, but on the sole, to pre- vent pointing of the toes. There is a third kind of displace- ment meriting attention, namely, the lower end of the frac- tured tibia may be drawn toward the fibula. This seems owinof to the action of the fibres of the extensor dicfitorum. If this take place, there will be a slight curve of the shin outward. It is obviated by placing a narrow pad along the muscles in front, which presses the tibia inward. A similar pad may perhaps be required behind. Oblique fractures may, from the breadth of the tibia and roughness of the broken surfaces, by due attention, be cured, without shorten- ing, in the extended position. If fracture of the tibia near its head be transverse, the same treatment is proper; but if oblique, and the shaft be drawn up behind, or on either side of the upper portion, the double inclined plane is better. If the fracture extend upward into the knee joint, the straight posture is proper, the part being laid in a mould of paste- board, and secured by strips of bandage. There is danger of a stiff joint, and therefore we are taught to employ, in due time, passive motion. The tibia may be broken near the ankle, and yet without interesting the joint, but generally the fibula also is frac- tui*ed. The shaft of the tibia projects a little above the inner ankle, and the foot is inclined somewhat outward. The appearances are still better marked, if the fibula also be broken. In either case crepitation is discovered on roll- ing or moving the ankle. The fracture is to be reduced, and attention paid to the relation of the malleolus to the shin, and of the great toe to the leg and patella. The patient is to be placed on his back, with the leg straight; but if the obliquity be considerable, it may be found necessary to bend the knee, a little, over a small pillow placed below it, with sufficient padding, however, to support the rest of the leg. We use two long lateral splints having foot pieces. The chief risk is that the foot be turned outward, as in dislocation of the tibia, inward; but proper padding and bandages pre- vent this. If the fracture be oblique, and extend in a direc- tion inward, going through the articular surface, it is most