496 the tibia, all round its articulating surface, and over that. So far, then, we should say, that the synovial membrane formed a simple shut sac, bounded as described. Under the tendon of the rectus muscle is a bursa, separated from this synovial sac by a thin septum. But this is frequently defi- cient, and, in that case, the sac seems to ascend higher be- tween the rectus tendon and the bone, and, also, by its sides. But the sac is not so simple as I have described. For, from the implantation of the crucial ligaments, it can be traced along each of these, affording an investment to them ; and this is, in their course, connected by fibres, and a little fatty- looking substance, so that they cannot be separated or un- twisted, till this be torn or removed. The synovial membrane, also, is expanded, over both surfaces of the semilunar carti- lages. Lastly, from the_ under half of the margin of the patella, this membrane forms a duplicature into the joint. Its margin is irregular and thick, from interposition of a little fibrine. The duplicature extends outward and inward, on both sides, over the semilunar cartilages, to the capsule, at their margins. From thus stretching from the lower part of the patella, like wings, these have been called the alar ligaments. From the median line of the duplicature, a septum, or fold, goes, backward and upward, to the intercondyloid space, where it meets the membrane, covering the articular cartilage and crucial ligaments. This is called the ligamentous mucosum, and contains a few ligamentous fibi’es within its folds; and on its surface there is often a fatty-looking substance. All these portions of the membrane are continuous, or, traceable from any one spot over the whole. When the synovial fluid is increased in quantity, the patella is raised, if the leg be stretched, and it can be made to strike on the condyles, and rebound. The capsule protrudes at both sides of the patella and rectus tendon, and is very tense when the knee is bent. If there be a communication with the bursa, there is swelling under the tendon. Sometimes a projection takes place into the ham and the artery lying over it, pulsation is felt. It cannot be mistaken for aneurism, for the tumour disappears, or becomes quite slack, by bending the joint.