405 of the last lumbar vertebrm, or about the sacro-iliac symphysis. This is best accomplished by making an incision through the skin, beginning an inch and a half beyond the spine of the ilium, and fully three-quarters of an inch above the level of the crest. It is to be continued forward, parallel to Pou- part’s ligament, and fully half an inch above it, for three inches and a half. The skin being drawn up, the muscles are to be divided, to the same extent, and fully as distant, from the crest and Poupart’s ligament, as just marked. If the incision be carried nearer the crest, or ligament, we are apt to wound the circumflex artery. I need not say that the muscles increase in thickness as we proceed backward. The fascia transversalis is more distinct as we proceed forward^ and sometimes is very strong. It is to be divided, and the peritonaeum gently and cautiously raised from the iliac and psoas muscles, in a direction toward the sacro-iliac sym- physis. On the right side, if we raise it much in a direction farther up, and more toward the top of the crest, we raise the coecum with it. The front of the artery is about four inches and a quarter, in from the spine of the ilium, and a little higher than it. If the peritonaeal bag be pressed down, we must have it kept up by the broad retractor and position. The sheath of the artery is now to be cautiously torn, or opened by dissecting forceps, guided by the finger; or we employ the nail, or the end of a director. It is seldom safe to use a sharp instrument. The finger, aided, perhaps, occasionally, by a blunt hook and director, is to be employed to insulate the artery from the vein, the relation of which, on the two sides has been pointed out; and, indeed, in most cases, we from first to last, trust chiefly to the finger. The ligature is next to be applied and tied, as described by writers on surgery. To tie the internal iliac artery is much more difficult and dangerous, more especially from its relation to the vein, which is the same on both sides. The external iliac vein comes out from between the external and internal iliac arteries, pretty firmly attached to outer surface of the latter. The artery dips down into the pelvis, covering the internal iliac vein, which lies in front of it, sometimes a little more outward, but