and central at first: it is on the side of the trachea, and soon gets a iittle behind it on the spine. The phrenic nerve, in quadrupeds, arises lower; in the horse, for instance, it arises by two large heads from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, which unite on the scalenus, and go into the thorax. If we divide the nerve on both sides of a rabbit, the animal breathes laboriously, but without noise, rather panting, and usually dies within twenty-four hours. The diaphragm is red, but not inflamed; the lungs redder than usual, but without effusion; serum is contained in the pericardium; and sometimes the liver is darker than it ought to be. If the nerve on one side only be divided, the same symptoms take place, but in a less degree, and the animal lives longer. No operation can safely be undertaken which is to injure the phrenic nerve. We can easily see why some diseases of the liver should produce pain in the shoulder, from the connexion of the phrenic with the nerves going there. On the other hand, affections of the higher portion of the medulla spinalis, or tumour on the neck, or enlarged glands pressing on the nerve, may not only produce difficulty of breathing, but dropsical effusion, which oftener arises from affections of the nervous system, than is at present admitted. Disease of the liver rarely causes dropsy by any mere me- chanical effect on the venous circulation. Another important muscular nerve is the Spinal Accessory, which comes off from the medulla spinalis, generally about the fourth vertebra, but sometimes so low as the seventh, or so high as the second. It runs up in the canal between the posterior roots of the cervical nerves and the ligamentum den- ticulatum, enters the cranium by the foramen magnum, behind the vertebral artery, adhering to the suboccipital nerve as that is passing out; then it becomes attached to the eighth, so that the two, as they pass out by the foramen lacerum, often seem to be one nerve. On coming out, it becomes more con- nected with the ninth, by dense cellular substance. Then it runs between the eighth and the sympathetic nerve, over- lapped by the outer side of the ganglion, so that it is partly behind it. It is connected with the ganglion and receives