267 In the region of the notch, the masseter, perhaps part of the parotid gland, and the muscles, vessels, and nerves, already noticed, may be more or less injured, according to the direction of the instrument, with the exception of the ex- ternal carotid, which is less in danger, though not absolutely safe. It may run along the basilary process. Behind the ramus of the jaw, a stab or wound may injure the parotid gland, external carotid artery, facial vein, or the portio dura, or its descending branches. If it go deep, it may also interest the internal carotid, jugular vein, sympa- thetic ganglion, pharynx, &c. On the ramus, the masseter, parotid gland, or its duct, branches of the portio dura, and transversalis artery may be injured. From the mouth, back to the ramus, much injury may be done. The facial artery, and vein, with their branches, the continuation of the transversalis artery, branches of the por- tio dura, and buccinator nerves, and parotid duct, may be divided, or, the wound may penetrate into the mouth, or divide the side of the lip. Between the jaws, at the front of the coronoid process, the buccinator, and nerves on it, and the vessels, and parotid duct, may be divided. If the instrument enter, nearly, directly backward, the pterygoideus externus, internal carotid, and jugular, are most likely to suffer. If, above the lower end of the pterygoid process, it run as much inward as the bone will permit, but not much downward, it will go to the fora- men, where the ninth nerve issues. If it break the process, or run lower than its extremity, it may go across, at, or be- hind, the velum, to the other side, and injure there any of the great vessels or important nerves. If directed down- ward, it will injure the tongue or pharynx. If it be directed below the end of the pterygoid process, it may not only in- jure any of these parts, but go in such a direction, as to cut the sympathetic ganglion, or injure the glottis. In all wounds of the face, the general rule of securing the vessels, and bringing, and retaining, the surfaces, as close as possible, so as to prevent deformity, is to be observed. In