155 nervous branches, so interwoven, as well to merit its name. It is formed not merely by the sympathetic nerve, but also by tlie cardiac branch of the eighth, and detachments from the recurrent. It is placed behind the arch of the aorta, between that vessel and the trachea, at its bifurcation, and several glands lie around, and many behind, between it and the trachea. It is not easy to say what effect would be produced on the heart, purely by enlargement of these, for they are seldom much affected without other disease, particularly in the lungs. But I am persuaded, that in many cases where they cannot be considered as the original seat and cause of the disorder, they do aggravate the symptoms, and am in the practice of choosing the district of this plexus, which is also not far distant from that of the pulmonary plexus, for the application of blisters or issues, when no other circumstance directs to another place. On both sides of the neck, there is very considerable irre- gularity in the origin, and even the course of the cardiac nerves; but I am not able to say whether these have any influ- ence on the heart, either in health or disease. On the left side, the superior nerve arises as in the right, and runs by the inner margin of the trunk. It forms a com- munication with the middle plexus, and sometimes then goes on by the inner margin of the carotid, to the front of the aorta, thence to the face of the pulmonary artery, and then behind it to the cardiac plexus. In other cases, after form- ing a communication with the middle plexus, it divides into two, so that we cannot say that either of the branches arises distinctly from one ganglion or other. One branch, as the superficial, goes down on the face of the aorta; the other, as the great cardiac, behind it. These two branches frequently go down quite behind the carotid; but sometimes one turns more forward, and at the lower part of the neck, is partially in front of the sheath of the artery, which ought to be remem- bered in tying the vessel below the middle of the neck, and calls for attention in fairly slitting up the sheath, and at the same time, avoiding all unnecessary irritation. If the great cardiac branch on this side, coming off from