213 The swelling may likewise descend by the root of the tongue, on the inside of the constrictor, and press inward, on the side of the epiglottis. It may also extend under the membrane, between the tongue and front of the epiglottis, so as to press that backward on the glottis. Or, it may press down, and a little forward, the mucous membrane and constrictor, above the submaxillary, or may press out the constrictor, just above the sweep of the digastric muscle, passing between the stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus, but confined long by the constrictor and fascia. This inflammation is not always caused by cold, but sometimes, and especially when in the circumjacent tissue, by fish bones, or even a bit of the beard of barley, sticking in the tonsil, and the effect naturally will vary with the extent of disease. Often, there is great difficulty of swallowing, and much of the liquid returns by the nostril, or there may be great difficulty of breathing; frequently, from the state of the pterygoid muscle, it is impossible to open the mouth, and sometimes the jaw remains stiff, long after the abscess bursts. In two instances, I have known the patient suddenly suffocated by the pus entering the glottis. It is seldom necessary to puncture the abscess, but when it is, we should do so, if possible, just behind the anterior pillar, not before it, through the distended velum. There is no fear of wounding any artery, unless we transfix the abscess, and direct the point of the instrument obliquely outward. Chronic enlargement of the tonsil, is very common, par- ticularly in strumous habits, and such are often peculiarly liable to suppuration. If the tonsil acquire a large size, it produces difficulty of swallowing, perhaps of breathing, par- ticularly when asleep, and also affects the speech. Should it be necessary to remove a portion of the tumour, it may be safely done by laying hold of it with a hook, and cutting off with a probe-pointed bistoury, the prominent part. By at- tending to the relation of the tonsil to the vessels, we are in no danger of injuring them, and need only divide the branches of the arteria tonsillaris, the bleeding from which may be readily checked by an astringent. The tumour cannot be safely entirely dissected out, but what remains, generally, cica-