205 be restrained by pressure with the finger, on a pledget wet with a styptic. Afterwards, if the surface be not healthy, escharotics, &c., must be used. Deeper tubercles, or tumours, may also, after being trans- fixed with a ligature, or seized with a hook, be dissected out, without great bleeding, unless we have to go very deep, and especially near the median line of the tongue. In cases of extensive disease, it has been proposed to tie, previously, the lingual artery, or arteries, and should this be determined on, I refer, for the relation of the parts, to what has been said at pp. 100—103. It is seldom, however, that this preliminary step will be required, and therefore, I would point out the relation of the artery to the tongue itself, and remark, that the tongue is supplied by two divisions of the artery. First, by the dorsalis lingum, not very large, which comes off, soon after the trunk has entered under the hyo-glossus. It mounts up to the back part of the tongue, at the side, and supplies the base and part of the body of the tongue, by numerous but not large branches. Second, the main trunk or ranine artery, enters the proper substance of the tongue, about an inch and a quarter farther back, than the frenum, and runs for- ward to the tip. In a thick tongue, at the frenum, it is half an inch below the surface; and in proportion as we go back from the frenum, this artery is in less danger of being wounded by an incision, perpendicular from the dorsum, unless we go, at about an inch from the frenum, down to the extrinsic muscles. These varying in extent, according to their contrac- tion or relaxation, must alter the position of the artery, and make it ascend more directly, or run more obliquely in differ- ent states. It will also be nearer, or farther from the base of the tongue, according as the muscles are less or more stretched. In the quiescent state, the artery emerges from the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, about an inch and a quarter, or lather more, back from the frenum, or, if the tongue be stretched, fully two inches from the tip, nearly on a line in from the margin of the masseter muscle, and about a quarter of an inch higher than the edge of the jaw blade. Almost im- mediately, it begins to enter the substance of the tongue.