531 from the bone, are to be drawn backward. In doing this, the leg is to be bent, and the foot extended. There is a layer of fascia, stretching between the two bones, over the deep muscles and vessels. If this be, improperly, detached, it is raised with the gastrocnemii, and the vessels and nerves carried with it. In that case, they are to be found on the surface of the elevated muscles. If this fascia be not touched, the vessels are left in situ. It is to be divided for at least an inch over them. The artery lies between two venae comites, with the nerve on its fibular side. It is fully an inch out from the edge of the tibia here, and therefore we require to make an incision nearly four inches long. A handbreadth above the ankle, and also at an inch and a half above the end of the malleolus, the artery may be more easily exposed. We make an incision three inches long, be- tween the edge of the tibia and tendo-Achilles. The vena saphena is to be avoided. The strong aponeurosis between the tendo-Achilles and tibia being cut, we, by a little dis- section, expose the layer of it which' covers the vessels on the deep muscles. This is to be divided up and down, and then the artery is exposed, about five-eighths of an inch obli- quely outward, and backward, from the edgp of the tibia, between its veins, and having the nerve either obliquely be- hind, or more frequently fibular. This fascial covering is sometimes so thick, as to be an aponeurosis, and occasionally, though rarely, an accessory slip of the flexor digitorum, having a slender tendon, covers the vessels. This is to be raised and turned outward. If w'e wish to tie the artery at the ankle, we begin the in- cision fully an inch above the end of the ankle, and carry it nearly to the same extent beyond it, in a direction down- ward, and forward, toward the side of the sole. It passes a finger’s-breadth behind the ankle. The general fascia being divided, as it extends from the ankle to the tendo-Achilles, we expose, and must open, the particular layer which covers the artery. 1 his, immediately behind the ankle, is often strength- ened by fibres from the annular ligament. It is to be divided