‘250 muscle, and also the internal lateral ligament. It runs rather behind, and a little more outward, than the dental nerve, or it may perhaps be covered by it, (looking from the inside,) and gives off small muscular branches. It then, with the nerve, enters the canal, the commencement of which is in a line run back along the upper surface of the grinders. They go forward, in a canal, along the I'oot of the alveolar process, and pass out at the mental foramen, the former anastomos- ing with the facial artery. This foramen, is situated, exactly, below the fifth tooth, counting backward from the front, and is about midway between the under edge of the jaw, and the top of the alveolar process, about half an inch from each. The anterior margin of the depressor anguli oris, overlaps the hole, and the depressor labii, goes completely over it. The vessel which is now small goes to these muscles. The alveolar, or dental, artery, is sometimes torn in extract- ing a grinder, the process being fractured, and, in some cases, the bleeding is not only copious but obstinate, even when the trunk is not torn. A piece of cork, shaped to the socket, should be introduced, above a little lint, and kept firmly pressed down. If this do not stop it, it is to be taken out, and another pellet introduced, containing a bit of potassa fusa, of the size of a mustard-seed, which is also to be corked in. The artery is, also, sometimes torn, in fracture of the jaw, but, on reducing the bones, and applying a bandage, the haemorrhage generally soon ceases. From in- jury of the nerve, in pulling a tooth, tetanus has been produced. When the artery continues its course, altogether, within the pterygoideus externus, it gives off, at the same place, with the arteria media and dental, or very soon after them, the posterior deep temporal artery, which passes upward and a little forward, on the face of that muscle, and gets under the temporal muscle. If the maxillary turn up on the sur- face of the pterygoideus, the deep temporal, generally comes off, nearly half an inch farther forward, and runs therefore more directly upward, rising perhaps from the centre of the