402 a vein, which comes off, within the muscle, from tlie epigastric, and passes out at its edge, to get to tiie lower margin of the cord. The internal oblique and transversalis, are next to be divided, so far as they have been uncovered. From the point where the artery issues, to the pubal extremity of the incision, the internal oblique is, with the exception of some fibres of the transversalis, the only muscle to be cut. But we have the fascia transversalis to be divided, and this, near the liga- ment, is often strong. This incision exposes the cord, in its course along the canal. Only the under margin of the cord is seen, at least the whole is not uncovered. A consider- able branch from the circumflexa often goes to the muscles, and, unless we keep pretty near Poupart’s ligament, it is cut. By gently drawing up the edge of the divided muscles and the cord, we come to the fascia transversalis which is firm, and often the superior aperture of the inguinal canal well marked. It is to be cut, or rather scratched through, and then we meet the peritonaeum. Exterior to the peritonaeum, or sometimes involved in the fascia transversalis, is the epigastric artery, which, coming off from the inner side of the external iliac, either mounts, at first directly upward, at the pubal margin of the upper aperture of the inguinal canal, or it sweeps a little inward, toward the tubercle, before ascending. It is evident, that, if our incision go nearer to the tubercle than the margin of the iliac artery, which it does, the epigastric, unless it sweep very much inward, must, with its vense comites, be exposed ; we take care, in dividing the fascia transversalis, that it be not injured. It is to be slightly pressed inward. The peritonaeum is now to be gently pushed up, by the finger, from the face of the artery, and, along with it, we raise, in the male, the spermatic vessels, which run close by the outer margin of the artery, or partly on its face ; and also the vas deferens which is on the artery for fully half an inch, and then winds obliquely across the vein, to dip into the pelvis, about an inch back from the ligament. In the female, we raise the round ligament, which, at Poupart’s ligament, is obliquely on the face of the artery, but soon leaves it to get on the vein, and thence into the pelvis, about three-quarters of an inch