.oso somewhat obliquely, so that the Hap is a little longer at the inside than the outside. Ihe middle of this oblique line, is from five, to five and a half inches from the end of the heel, according to the size of the foot, and the extent of skin left on the dorsum. It is best to confine our incision at first entirely to the skin and cellular substance, and the difference in point of time is very little. The skin on the dorsum is now to be drawn back, and the extensor tendons, and extensor brevis, divided close by its margin, and down to the bone. The tibialis antica is at this time divided, and is to be com- pressed with the finger, if a tourniquet have not been used. We, next, either disarticulate the bones, and complete the flap below, by cutting the muscles ; or, we cut them first, bending the foot, so as to stretch the flexor tendons. If this be not done, they, especially that of the longus pollicis, are apt to project. We begin the disarticulation with the astragalus, and feel for that by the tuberosity of the navicu- lare. It is also in a line up from the inner margin of the toe next the little toe. If we bend tbe foot inward, it is still more distinct. In front, we feel for the sulcus, between the os calcis, and cuboides, having previously divided the exten- sor brevis; or, we feel for the tuberosity of the latter bone, at the side of the sole. No force is to be used, as that is apt to affect the ligaments of the ankle joint. The arteries divided, are the anterior tibial, and the posterior, after it has subdivided into the two plantar vessels. Ramuli may also require to be tried. If the flap do not fit perfectly, it must be pared a little, or if, at the ends, it pucker or project much, it is easy to make it fit; but that is not to be done, unless the error be considerable. I need scarcely say, that it is better to make the flap too long than too short. The foot may also be removed, leaving the naviculare, in which case, the incision on the dorsum is more oblique. If we be to remove the toes and metatarsal bones, at their junction with the tarsus, we feel, on the outside, for the angular projection of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Its articulation, with the cuboides, slopes a little forward, that of the others goes directly inward across the foot. Or,