152 a communication also takes place with the lenticular ganglion. Small branches go to this ganglion from the fifth and sixth nerves, or connexions are formed with these nerves and with tlie glosso-pharyngeus. In the horse, we should say, that it arose from the fifth by one long head, which formed the trunk of the nerve, passing over the carotid artery; another smaller branch passes under the artery to unite with the former in the canal. Where the artery is taking its bend, there is between it and the nerve, a plexiform substance, of a reddish colour, about half an inch long, which unites the artery and nerve, for the trunk is not lost in it, but only skirts it. In this case, the fifth pair is still more entitled to be called a par vagum than the eighth. The principal reason for attending here to these connexions, is, that they enable us better to explain some affections of the eye and its appendages, arising from derangement of the sympathetic nerve: and from the intimate connexion formed lower by this and the spinal nerves, we can understand how the one may act on the other, and both remote, and otherwise unlooked-for, affections be produced. The superior ganglion, gives off several small branches, which pass outward, and form connexions with the cervical nerves, which send also twigs to the ganglion. These outer branches are lost in the muscles. If, after carefully raising the carotid artery, we draw the ganglion and its descending trunk outward, we see distinctly several branches coming off from them, and running inwards beneath the artery. They go to the larynx and pharynx, and even to the exterior muscles of the larynx, to the hyo-thyroid space, and to the thyroid gland, and form connexions with the branches coming from the eighth and ninth, &c. to these parts. Those going to the pharynx are very distinct, and contribute to the formation of the pharyngeal plexus. From the fore part of the inner mar- gin, there are given off twigs which are connected, very high, by interlacement with the eighth, ninth, and portio dura of the seventh. A little lower, a thick pulpy branch, reddish, and somewhat pellucid, is given off, which soon divides into at least five twigs, which interlace around the carotid artery