190 into the relaxed portion below. The muscular fibres are deficient in front; and, thei’efore, were there no solid plane alongst which the food could glide, it never could get down. 1 his is afforded by the larynx, against which the morsel is pressed. Higher, it is in the first stage of deglutition pre- vented from rising into the nostril by the velum, and from coming forward again into the mouth by the elevation of the root of the tongue, which rises to fill up the arch of the fauces already diminished by the contraction of the palato- glossi and palato-pharyngei. That part of the tongue, which is on a line with the palato-glossi is raised by them, whilst the base, behind that, rather turns backward, carry- ing the epiglottis with it, or favouring its falling back. At the same time, the larynx is brought forward, so as to have the glottis, more efficiently, under the epiglottis, when that falls back. It is also raised a little nearer to the os hyoides, but not so much, as its apparent elevation would lead one to suppose, for the os hyoides also rises. It is neces- sary to recollect this process in considering the effect of wounds. In the sound state, the food or drink can no where find a passage but downward. It is resisted in every other direction, and the thyroid cartilage is pressed close up to the os hyoides and the fossa contracted. But when the hyo- thyroid space is divided, then the elevation of the tongue and os hyoides, in the act of swallowing, enlarges the aperture, through which the food or drink is moi’e easily pressed than downward. The larynx may be still partly raised by the constrictors and stylo-pharyngei, but it is not brought for- ward, and thus the gap is not filled up. It is necessary, both in order to prevent the opening of the wound, and also to aid deglutition, if that be attempted, that we have the chin depressed so as to relax the levators of the os hyoides, and the depressors of the thyroid cartilage, and that, in the attempted act of swallowing, the cartilage be pressed upward and forward against the os hyoides. We find, sometimes, that, in wounds of the throat, the patient, when he attempts to swallow, instinctively presses his chin down against his breast. A bolus of some tenacious food is more likely