377 the cuneiform bone, but scarcely touching it. The reduction is accomplished by extending the hand, and rather toward the radial side, at the same time that the end of the ulna is pressed into its place. The lacerated interarticular cartilage may be so placed as to oppose reduction. Luxation may also be partial. The hand and fingers are enveloped in a continuation of the superficial fascia of the arm, which forms a glove, more or less firm, and distinct, in different cases. The deep aponeu- rosis of the arm, after being intimately connected, if not identified, with the carpal ligaments, is also extended over the hand, but the palm is more firmly braced, by what is called the palmar aponeurosis, which is not a sheet of equal thickness, but rather consists of strong fasciculi, or bands, united to each other by thinner substance, and near the end of the metacarpal bones, strong fibres are interwoven trans- versely. It is distinct in the palm, but, at the sides, it,is lost in the fascia, covering the muscles of the thumb and little finger. If, near the wrist, we turn off the superficial fascia of the forearm, we find, below it, and, there, exterior to the deep aponeurosis, the tendon of the palmaris longus. This passes down over the carpal ligament, by the ulnar side of the tendon of the flexor radialis, and top of the ball of the thumb, and is implanted on its face, by several strong fibrous detachments, whilst the rest passes on, and is lost in, so as often to seem, by expansion, to form the palmar aponeurosis. This, however, may rather be considered as a continuation under another and stronger form, of the deep aponeurosis of the forearm and carpal ligament; but the tendon acts on the whole fascial covering of the front of the hand, as far as the commencement of the fingers. At the end of each meta- carpal bone, the flexor tendons, which, till then, had been merely enveloped in a synovial sheath, enter a strong fibrous covering. This arises from the cross bands of the palmar aponeurosis, which are found near the end of the palm. A layer, more or less firm, is also then sent down, to be con- nected with the thin fascia, covering the deep or interosseous muscles, and also with the transverse ligaments of the meta-