478 tumour is felt above the ham. If any force act on the upper part of the shaft, in a direction forward, its end, in place of going backward, pushes forward the crureus, and a fulness is perceived above the knee. When the fracture is oblique, the upper end may be driven into the crureus, and, if not carefully withdrawn, the action of that muscle, and, in a great measure, of the vasti, on the knee, must be lost. The lower portion is carried back, unless the obliquity be of that description in which the upper end keeps the lower forward. The upper portion is drawn a little inward. Generally, the straight position is best. A roller should be applied, from the toes upward, which steadies the gastrocnemius. These are relaxed by keeping the foot extended. By pads, splints, and proper bandages, the bone may be correctly united; but, as soon as is safe, in five or six weeks, passive motion should be commenced, otherwise the joint may long be stiff. In some cases, the double inclined plane, at least for a time, may be required. Our practice must, in some respects, be empirical—that is, we must decide by the effect, at the time, of our trial. The bent position stretches the crureus, &c.; but, if we find that the straight plan allows the bones to be displaced, we shall produce great deformity if we persevere. Oblique fracture of the condyle, whether external or internal, extends down to the joint. The joint appears to be broader, and the broken condyle is apt to be drawn back- ward by the gastrocnemius. As soon as the inflammation and state of the parts permit, a mould of the lower part of the thigh, the ham, sides of the knee, and upper part of the leg, is to be taken by thick pasteboard, previously soaked in hot water, till it becomes soft. We apply the many-tailed bandage, and then lay the limb straight in this deep gutter, having a lining of cotton wool. It is to be secured by strips of cloth. Passive motion is to be cautiously begun, in about a month or six weeks. There is a difference in the two sexes, as to the distance from the tubercle of the pubis, at which the femoral artery issues from under Pouparl’s ligament. In the male, the pubal