315 neatli this. If, on the inside of the arm, we trace the fascia from its union with the intermuscular band, we find it, there, dividing into two layers. The outermost, is the general deep aponeurosis of the arm, as well as of the fore-arm. It extends outward on the brachial vein and all the other vessels and nerves, to the margin of the biceps, and thence as an invest- ment round the arm. Often, in the whole course of the great brachial vein, it sends a thin septum down, between it and the internal cutaneous nerve, and the artery, venae comites, and median nerve, which are involved in a general sheath, that may be traced from the axilla, whilst septa may often be shown, dipping down between the individual vessels and nerves. The innermost, or deepest, layer of the fascia, may be traced from the same line (intermuscular) over the brachieus, under the basilic and cutaneous veins, to join the expansion from the biceps tendon, being either identified with its margin, or sending a thin layer, under it, on to the op- posite side. Returning to the intermuscular ligament, we find a layer of thin fascia extending from it, over the brachieus,. near the elbow, part of which, is lost in, or reflected up on the sheath of the vessels, which is very thin behind them, in so much, that the artery, in the arm, seems to lie on the muscles, with only a thin cellular layer interposed. It is necessary to add, that the layers of fascia, and even their pre- cise origin and course, are not always alike distinct, or appar- ently exactly the same. But, the whole extremity being covered by a superficial and deep fascia, and there being va- rious connexions and prolongations of the latter, we may understand how from a small origin, disease may be exten- sively propagated. There is great variety, not only, in the origin of the indi- vidual NERVES of the arm, but, also, in the formation of the axillary plexus, so that it is not possible, from an affection of a particular nerve, to be certain which of the cervical nerves is principally diseased. For instance, the fourth and fifth, may join, at the margin of the scalenus, and then separate; the fifth next receive the sixth, and their united trunks, join that formed by the seventh, and first dorsal. Or, a large