73 the innominata. We ought not to disturb the carotid, or expose it more than merely to display its lower end, as near the bifurcation of the innominata as we can. As near to this as possible, we take hold of the sheath with a pair of dissect- ing forceps, and raise it, that we may make a small opening in it to admit a director. Tliis is to be gently slid on in the oblique direction of the artery, neither quite on its upper nor its anterior sui’face, but between them. Before we divide the sheath along tlie vessel, we must ascertain that no vein is in the way; for often a thyroid vein, as large as a goose quill, runs along the front of the trachea and across the innominata, to go to the vena innominata, or two branches cross the artery, and unite to enter the great vein. If these be met with, they must be drawn aside. Having slit the sheath, we must, if we find that the needle cannot be easily passed, divide it farther, and perhaps a little way up the carotid, to afford more room. The artery is then to be cautiously insulated from its sheath, partly by the blunt probe, and partly by the blunt needle, and we should go no lower than is necessary. In this part of the operation, it may be useful occasionally to have the head well bent back, as this elevates the artery more, and the same position will be proper in slitting the sheath or in exposing it,; but there is no occasion to have the neck permanently stretched, and it is quite unnecessary in the division of the skin and muscles. The ligature is, last of all, to be passed by means of Weiss’ instrument. This needle is to be introduced within the sheath, and kept close by the surface of the artery, neither pressing so much on it as to injure, far less tear or puncture it, nor allowing the point to recede, so as to pierce the sheath, and touch the parts which are in its vicinity. The left sub- clavian vein, or vena innominata, crosses in front of the artery, between it and the sternum. The right subclavian vein goes down by the right side of the artery. The great cardiac nerve goes down close on the sheath in the same course. The pleurae lie on each side, the trachea behind. So long as we open no part of the sheath but that which has been done by the scalpel or the director, we are safe; but both in the insu- lation of the artery and the passing of the needle, we must be