297 median, and a deep vena comes, forward or outward, close by the coraco-bx'achialis. Or, drawing down, or back, the vein, internal cutaneous, ulnar, and spiral, and pressing up or for- ward, the median, we expose the artery, often, so intimately connected with the vein, as to require great caution in the separation. The deep comes, is partly behind the artery, and requires caution, and, in many cases, the profunda is given off high, by the axillary artery, and, along with its spiral branch, which accompanies the spiral nerve, runs down behind it. We must also remember that the arterial branch, I have named thoracica brachialis, comes off near the upper margin of the tendon, and may be cut. By attending to the description I have given of the tract and relative position of the vessels and nerves, w^e may form a pretty correct judgment, respecting the parts which shall be injured, by stabs, or other wounds, at any given point below the clavicle. Before proceeding to the shoulder joint and arm, it wdll be proper to notice the Mamma, the connexions of which may be better understood now than earlier. The Breast, is enclosed between two layers of fascia. The deep axillary fascia, from under the pectoral muscles, extends under the breast, adhering firmly to it, and separat- ing it from the fibres of the pectoralis major, to which it is connected by thin cellular substance, never containing fat. The superficial fascia of the axilla, can be traced on the surface of the gland, but it is less distinct. It can be followed up along the nipple. From the corium, there descend numerous thin cellular septa, to the exterior fascia, and which are filled with more or less fat in different cases. The surface of the ffland O is not smooth, but somewhat irregular, small sulci or pits, be- ing filled with fat, which, when picked out, exhibits the hol- lows. Sometimes, especially during lactation, small packets of fat, are found intermixed in the substance of the gland. The appearance, as well as the size of the gland, varies at different ages, and under different circumstances. In child- hood, it is little larger than a sixpence, thin, and apparently homogeneous. In adult virgins, it is also usually homogeneous,