179 the jugiilitt’ vein, and this rule with regard to tlie right side is still more applicable to the left. The situation of the j ugular vein is not always exactly the same; for, wliilst, often, its internal margin at the clavicle, is only about an eighth of an inch out from the articulation, in other cases it is considerably more; usually it is near the articulation, and partly overlaps or hides the carotid artery there. Its outer margin is from three quarters of an inch, to an inch, more out- ward, according to the breadth of the vein, Avhich always covers the subclavian artery, before it enter between the scaleni, and will even encroach more or less on the scalenus, as the inner margin may be nearer to, or farther from, tlie articulation. Often, the vein near the clavicle is crossed by an arterial branch which runs inward; and farther up the neck, one or more branches, from the carotid, sometimes run obliquely down on its face. This vein is of great importance in its relations. We have seen what it covers at the clavicle; from five-eighths to three quarters of an inch higher, it has the thyroid axis behind it, none of the branches of which are seen, excepting the transversalis colli, till the jugular be raised. It also hides the phrenic nerve, which often has glands lying on it, between it and the vein. When tumours are situated to the outside of the jugular vein, at the lower part of the neck, we have both arteries and nerves to attend to. If quite close on the clavicle, and dip- ping behind it, the subclavian artery, after passing the sca- lenus, may be interested. It emerges from behind the scalenus at a point, the subject laying on the back, perpendicularly down from the clavicle, varying, according to the size, from an inch and a quarter, to an inch and five-eighths, from the articulation. The last is the usual distance. The upper margin of the artery, sometimes at this point, is a quarter, or three-eighths, of an inch above the upper surface of the clavicle, but often it is nearly level with it. Should a tumour involve this part of the artery, there is no room to tie it, were it cut; and, thei'efore, if the tumour could not be separated from it, the only resource would be to tie the innominata, and this would be more than usually hazardous, if we at the same time