513 likely to interest the groove for the tibialis posticus. The foot is inclined more or less inward, and, in the same propor- tion, the outer ankle projects. The straight position gene- rally answers well, but as the foot tends to incline inward, in place of outward, the other treatment must be the reverse of what is proper in the former case. The tibia may also be broken just above the joint, and thrown backward on the os calcis. In this case, the leg is a little shortened, the foot from the front of the ankle, seems longei’, and the toes are pointed more or less downward. The remains of the tibia, or the astragalus, are felt in front of the end of the shaft. As in this case there is a complete separation, and displacement, extension must be used in the reduction, and afterwards we must so support and pad the tibia above the heel, as to keep it in its place. I saw an instance of this, where, the bone not having been reduced, the patient afterwards felt so much inconvenience, that he insisted on the limb being taken off. Sir Astley Cooper mentions, that the fibular portion of the end of the tibia may be split up in jumping, and the astragalus rise between the two bones. He advises the same treatment as in dislocation inward. The fibula may be broken any where, but, usually, it is about two inches above the ankle. There are, besides crepita- tion, other marks, as for instance, the outer margin of the foot is more or less everted, so that the leg rests more on the inner side than it ought to do. There is, in proportion to the degree of this change, a depression of the broken part. There can, however, be no distortion resembling dislocation, unless the lateral force have been so great, as to lacerate, or greatly stretch, the fibular ligaments, and to tear the interosseous. If there be little eversion, the chief mark is crepita- tion on pressing the spot, or on rotating the foot. There is pain at the part, followed by swelling. It is usual to lay the leg on the fibular side, and semibent, and having brought the foot to the right position, we keep it so, by ap- plying on each side a splint with a foot-piece secured by the many-tailed bandage. The firmness must depend on the sensibility. It is of importance to have the holes for the H. 2 L