473 inward, toward the pubis; and there is crepitation felt if the limb be extended and rotated for some time. Taking this statement as a text, I must explain and qualify. The trochanter, if raised directly up, is nearer the spine of the ilium ; but, if carried backward, is really farther from it. The radius it describes, in rotation, is less, but the shaft does not revolve on its own axis. Flexion is, chiefly, opposed, if the trochanter be far back, for, in this motion, the gluteus medius and minimus, the pyriformis, &c., and even the quad- ratus, are stretched. The immediate shortening of the limb must, in its extent, be regulated partly by the extent of injury, and partly by the degree and direction of the force which produced it. Ceterus paribus, we should not expect much difference, at first, between the two species, for, in the extra-capsular, the breadth and obliquity of the surface, opposed to each other, and the remaining attachment of muscles, or fibrous substance, may prevent much elevation; whilst, on the other hand, if the fibrous covering and ten- dinous connexion be entirely separated from the surface of the bone, though the latter may not be torn across, the shaft is not kept down by the capsule, and, if the elevating force have been considerable, it may be driven up. In intra- capsular fracture, there is nothing likely to bind, with any firmness, the surfaces of the bone, the synovial membrane being not only weak, but torn. The broken surfaces being smaller, and perhaps less oblique, are more easily displaced. The same muscles are concerned as in the former case. In so far, we should, from an equal force, expect a greater eleva- tion. But, then, we have the counteracting influence of the capsule, which certainly prevents much elevation, if it be not gieatly stretched, or torn, by the force. The fracture may be, in some cases, oblique and irregular, so as to retain the surfaces better together for a time. Now, in point of fact, different opinions have been given, by eminent men, and, I dare say, it will be conceded, that, although, ceterus paribus, we look for more shortening in the intra than the extra- capsular fracture, yet there is no positive rule. There may, at first, be little shortening, in either case, or there may be