159 obliquely inward, behind the internal carotid, to which it adheres, and passes down by its inner mai:gin, toward the upper part of the constrictor medius. It communicates with the accessory, glosso-pharyngeus, and with ramuli from the superior ganglion. It is partly distributed on and in the pharynx, as an independent nerve, and partly goes to the pharyngeal plexus. If we carefully detach the pharynx from the cervical vertebrae, and peel oflP a thin fascia from the back of it, we see this plexus, having for its groundwork, slender branches sent from the superior ganglion. It is placed on the upper margin of the constrictor medius, in a line up from the end of the horn of the os hyoides. A lower plexus exists to the inside of the superior ganglion, nearly in a line with the top of the thyroid cartilage. The infei'ior pharyngeal nerve, where that exists, goes to it, and it receives additions from the superior laryngeal. Lower, the pharynx is supplied with nerves from the recurrent and sympathetic. The distri- bution is of importance in considering palsy and spasm of the pharynx, and the effects of tumours of the tonsil, and at the latero-posterior part of the pharynx; and the production of tenderness and redness, perhaps also of aphthae, in conse- quence of affections, produced directly or remotely, of the par vagum, &c. At this time, it may be proper to leave the eighth, in order to notice the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. This is best exposed by removing the ramus and condyle of the jaw, and care- fully examining the parts at the base of the skull, where it is found between the jugular and internal carotid. It has the jugular and external carotid to its outside, crosses inward, slowly, and obliquely, the internal carotid, and gets under the pharyngeal vein, where that is entering the jugular. It passes between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus mus- cles, and then gives off the pharyngeal branch, which runs down to the pharynx. This branch is readily found even without sawing the bone; by dissecting at the angle of the jaw (page 53), we may separate the loose cellular connex- ion of the stylo-hyoideus and stylo-glossus and see the stylo- pharyngeus more inward or deeper. Along the under or