75 claviculiir articulation, just by the side of the trachea, higher or lower, according to the elevation of the innominata, being sometimes on a level with the top of the clavicle, in a few instances nearly an inch above it, sometimes a quarter of an inch below the level of the clavicle. From repeated observa- tions, I would say, that the bifurcation -takes place very near the sterno-clavicular articulation, seldom, if ever, more than a quarter of an inch outward from it, and very seldom more than that higher. If it bifurcate a very little on the median side of the articulation, the carotid, however low it may arise, is sometimes not fairly off the side of the trachea for an inch above the clavicle. The artery, when full, is not a quarter of an inch deep, or back fi*om the inner surface of the clavicle at the articulation. If collapsed, it may be nearly half an inch. It then comes a little more forward, and runs up to the bifur- cation nearly on the level of the inside of the clavicle. The left carotid, comes off directly from the aorta in a dis- tinct sheath, just at the root of the innominata, from half an inch to seven-tenths below the margin of the sternum, or above an inch below the upper margin of the clavicle; but if the parts be dissected, and the head bent back, the origin is brought nearly as high as the top of the sternum. It originates just at the margin of the trachea and side of the spine, and passes up partly on the margin of the oesophagus. It appears at the articulation; but sometimes it emerges from behind the cla- vicle nearly half an inch out from it, but oftener rather up from the side of the sternum. It lies here deeper than the right carotid, for it is, when collapsed, about three quarters of an inch back from the inner surface of the clavicle, less of course when filled. It bends forward, and soon is nearly on the same level with the right. If the parts be dissected, the left carotid will be found, half an inch above the clavicle, to be half an inch deep, or back, from the face of the trachea, whilst the right is only three-tenths, in some cases, not so much. An inch above the clavicle, the righi; is half an inch back, the left a tenth more; but these measurements must vary a little with the individual. At the cricoid cartilage, or even lower, there is no difference between the right and left. At this