521 the tendon of the tibialis anticns, to ramify on the inner ankle, and outer side of tlie heel. Hie arteries are accompanied, each, by two venae comites, which at the ham unite to form the popliteal vein. The superficial veins arise from the dorsum and sides of the foot. That from the inside, can be traced from the great toe to the front of the inner ankle, and thence up the inside of the leg, near the margin of the tibia, and then by the side of the inner condyle to the thigh, where it has been already described under the name of the saphena major. It receives its name from being manifest, or very well seen, in the naked foot and leg. The vein from the outside, arises near the little toe, turns at the outer ankle toward the tendo-Achiiles, along the outer border of which it ascends, to get on the belly of the muscle, then^between its heads, where it dips to enter the popliteal vein; but sometimes it proceeds higher, to enter into the end of the femoral vein. It is called the saphena minor. These form a net-work on the dorsum of the foot, and also communicate in their course up the leg. The superficial nerves are, first, the Saphenus, (page 48],) which accompanies the vena saphena all the way to the great toe. It pierces the fascia about two inches below the head of the tibia, and runs by the posterior margin of the vein, or partly overlapped by it. It supplies the inside of the leg, and ramifies both backward and forward. It sends branches over the inner ankle, and along the inside of the foot. The saphenus minor is distributed on the side of the knee and upper part of the leg. Secondly, on the outside, we have the superficial division of the peroneus, (to be presently noticed,) which generally before coming from between the peroneus and extensor digitorum, divides into two branches, one, continuing under the fascia, proceeds along the back of the ankle, and outside of the foot, toward the little toe; another, pierces the aponeurosis above the ankle, and goes by the front of the ankle, and onward, on the dorsum of the fool, quite cutaneous, toward the great toe. A third branch perforates lower, and is distributed about the ankle. Thirdly, the continuation ol the anterior tibial nerve, passes from