325 of the nerve, often goes down by the inside of the artery, into the triceps, whilst the superficial branch runs by its outside. The artery in its regular course, runs under the supinator, between it and the brachieus, down deep on the front of the condyle, meeting the recurrens radialis, so as to form a continuous vessel. In some instances, the artery runs on the back of the supinator, between it and the triceps, to join the interosseous recurrent. About the middle of the arm, when the spiral artery is yet behind the bone, and covered by the triceps secundus, it gives off the ramus posti- cus, which runs down the back of the arm, near the bone, deep, by the line of union of the first and second heads of the triceps. It gives branches, freely, into both, and con- tinues its course to the back of the joint, where it anasto- moses with the recurrens interossea. Thus, the upper part of the inside of the arm, its back and outside, are supplied, in great measure, by the profunda superior. Second, the lower half of the inside, is supplied by the profunda inferior, and ramus anastomoticus. The fii'st of these, comes off a little lower than the profunda superior, runs down on the triceps brevis, by the inside of the brachial artery, till the middle of the arm, when it divaricates inward, gets by the outer margin of the ulnar nerve, or partly covered by it, but sometimes partly in front of it. A branch of the spiral nerve, coming off near the axilla, runs down behind the ulnar nerve and great vessels, all the way to the elbow, entering the triceps. The artery follows the course of the ulnar nerve, passing behind the inner condyle, inosculating with the recurrens ulnaris, so as to form a continuous tube. Sometimes it sub- divides into two, which again unite. It also sends off, outward, ramuli to anastomose with the spiral artery. It gives off muscular branches in its course. Third, about two inches, sometimes only one, above the elbow joint, the articular artery, or ramus anastomoticus, as it has been called, comes off from the inside of the artery, winds a very little way upward on the brachieus internus, then bends down, and after giving one or two ramuli to the triceps, divides into two branches; one, goes backward, and winds a little outward