97 also under the membrane. The vein is higher than the arterj' and the nerve, and generally enters the lingual. The artery sends a few twigs on the surface of the membrane, but it is chiefly distributed within. It goes to the mucous membrane and small muscles. A minute gland sometimes lies on the membrane and over the nerve. Tliis hyo-thyroid gland, is so far from being regularly met with that I have seldom found it. But I have twice seen it diseased. In one case, which is related by my brother, the disease was of a malignant nature, and had formed so extensive connexions that no opera- tion could be performed. Both the breathing and swallowing were much affected. In the other case, the gland was as large as a hazel nut, and so bound down, by tlie muscles, that it affected the breathing, and somewhat the speech. It was removed, after making an incision across the muscles, but the laryngeal artery not being secured by the operator, blood was effused, and the membrane pressed so much in, as to threaten suffocation. By opening the wound, removing the coagulum, and tying the vessel, the cure was speedy. The artery is easily found by its relation to the horn, but we must be care- ful not to include the nerve. The laryngeal artery, is not to be confounded with another smaller branch, which comes off also from the thyroid, and runs higher towards the horn of the os hyoides. It passes under the hyo-thyroid muscle and into the membrane. A superficial branch from the lingual artery traverses the os hyoides. Other branches of the thy- roidea are given off, more irregularly, to the sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoideus, &c., but the main trunk winds downward, and then forward on the thyroid cartilage to the gland. It is found by sinking the finger in, at the top or level of the car- tilage, and, the carotid not being united closely to the carti- lage, the length of the thyroid, between the carotid and carti- lage, is about one-fourth of an inch. It is found exactly at the extremity of the horn of the os hyoides, where it comes down, passing either just behind the horn of the thyroid cartilage or over its tip. It comes in contact with the cartilage quite at its upper peak, and there it is covered with the deep fascia of the neck. It lies at first on the constrictor, immediatel}'