m stitches can be borne, it is suflficient to use one, with a view to retain the divided ends of the trachea, as near each other as possible, leaving the external wound unstitched, for, till the trachea have united, to a considerable extent, it is safe, to avoid closing, by plaster, or otherwise, the wound in the integu- ments. Thepatient,fromthefirst,canswallow,but the liquid or food, runs out by the wound, and produces coughing. Attempts to inject by a tube, introduced either from the mouth or the aperture, often produce so much irritation, and such efforts to vomit, as renders it necessary to trust to the insecure method of glysters. If fungi form, so as to encroach on the calibre of the tube, they must be destroyed by caustic, so as to keep the passage open. If the membrane, above the wound, become thickened or oedematous, or the glottis from this cause become contracted, a bougie should be introduced upward, to open the passage, and the wound must be kept open, both for the occasional introduction of the bougie, and also to permit breathing. There is less risk of the obstruction below the wound, but even this should be watched. If the trachea or larynx, have been wounded in two places, the intermediate portion is most apt to have its canal narrowed, and will require the bougie; or, in extreme cases, when the lower wound has become small, it will be necessary to enlarge it, or if it have healed, to open the cicatrix. In certain cases, it may become distinctly neces- sary, to perform the operation of tracheotomy, lower than the seat of the wound. In all cases where the larynx or trachea is opened, if any large vessel be also divided, or if the external wound be small, blood may flow, quickly, into the trachea, to such a degree, as to suffocate the patient, and, even if a small vessel have not been secured, death may unexpectedly take place in this way. In wounds with musket balls, there is more disorganization, in proportion to the extent of injury, and the apertures are smaller. The cartilage, may be rent or broken, or the trachea torn. If immediate death do not take place, from injury of the vessels, air is thrown out, under the skin, in expiration. Emphysema is produced, and, partly, from the pressiu e thereby