4U muscles in perinseo. But in doing so, we remove one thin circular muscle, just under the skin, involved in the superfi- cial fascia itself—namely, the external sphincter. I’his is about half an inch broad, sometimes more. It partly rests on the accelerator, at the end of the bulb, and extends laterally to the erectors, so that it connects these. It also, at the anus, is identified with the lower margin of the internal sphincter. The Accelerator rises by a tendinous origin, from the inside of the crura at their junction, and also from the proper sus- pensory fold of the urethra. It continues to rise all the way down from the triangular fascia, to the point where the urethra enters. It is spread over the uretlira, and embraces its bulb, turning in beneath it, and supporting it like a sling. Fre- quently, it extends outward and backward to be connected with the root of the ramus of the ischium; or this portion, if more separated, has been described as the transversalis perenaei alter. A layer of the deep fascia of the perinaeum covers the muscle, and fixes it better to the triangular fascia. If we dissect off the muscle, we do not leave the urethra or its bulb loose, for a thin layer passes from the triangular fascia over these, and under the muscle. Both the canal of the urethra, then, and its bulb, are fixed. The urethra is surrounded by its spongy substance till it pass through the triangular fascia, and when the accelerator is removed, is about half an inch in diameter. When the canal turns in, the spongy substance expands like a bulb, and descends toward the anus, ending about fully five-eighths of an inch above the orifice. It is from half an inch to three-quarters long, and generally about one broad, if covered by the accelerator. If we next cut through the suspensory band, and detach the urethra in its course downward, we find that it has been con- nected, all the way, to the triangular fascia, as was formerly explained, and that it has been lodged in a hollow between the two crura. This is more than half an inch deep, smooth, and formed by the outer layer of the triangular fascia. The Corpora cavernosa rise from the margin and inner sur- face of the rami of the pubis and ischium, so that they are on