482 below Poupart’s ligament, whilst, in other instances, this is not the case till eight inches. More frequently,it is six or seven. Besides the sartorian nerve, which we find at one part of the margin of the muscle, we have the vena saphena, and sometimes a pretty large arterial branch. The femoral artery, just before it emerges, gives off the superficial circumflexa ilii, which crosses the crural nerve, winds outward, and presently becomes superficial, near the spine of the ilium. The superficial epigastric, mounts up- ward, whilst the external pudic crosses the femoral vein, to be distributed on the pubis, scrotum, and perinaeum. Like the epigastric, it is cut in the operation for hernia. These either give ramuli to the glands, or small branches come off from the femoral artery to them, whilst a vein, from them descends to enter the saphena. The Profunda sometimes comes off close by the ligament; in other cases, not till three inches. Usually, it is from an inch and a half to two inches. It rises from the back of the femoral artery. If we draw that artery inward, and the crural nerve outward, we see the profunda lying on the tendon of the psoas muscle, in the angle between it and the iliacus, obliquely behind the femoral, and separated from it by the circumflex vein, which crosses between them. It is im- bedded in cellular substance, and covered with fascia, so thin at first, that it may be seen through it. Presently, it is covered by the strong fascia, which extends from the vastus to the adductors. On removing the femoral artery, it is not seen, being hid by this fascia. It goes down on the pectineus, and either perforates it near its lower margin, or passes, at that margin, on the tendon of the brevis, then behind that of the longus, between it and the magnus, which it finally pierces, to get, chiefly, to the biceps. The circumflex arteries come sometimes from the femoral, just where it sends off the profunda, but generally from this last, within five-eighths of an inch from its origin. The external is the largest, and, occasionally, is scarcely less than the profunda itself. It passes outward, between divisions of the crural nerve, over the psoas and iliacus