182 one branch going up under the trapezius, over tlie splenius; another going down in front of the margin of the levator, toward the scapula. These two •arteries are in danger, when tumours are extirpated from the lower and lateral part of the neck. After exposing such a tumour, by dividing the fascia, we should detach it at the outer and upper part first, and use the knife as little as possible. If we be careful of the aponeurosis of the deep muscles, we shall generally avoid wounding this artery, unless the tumour have adhered intimately to it and to the muscles. We must also be sparing of the knife near the clavicle. We must recollect, that often those branches near the jugular vein, are covered by the termination of the external jugular and deep muscular veins, so that we may be more incommoded by the veins than the arteries. But, besides these branches, particularly the transversalis colli, we have often another large artery, the supra-scapular, to attend to. This comes off from the subclavian, just at the outer margin of the scalenus. It passes through the plexus of nerves, some, generally two, above, the rest below or behind it. It arches a little upward, so as to get half an inch higher than the cla- vicle, and then turns down over the levator scapulae, under the trapezius. It sinks soon, so that, often, in the course of half an inch, that is, about two inches from the articulation, it is just on a line with the upper surface of the clavicle; and as it proceeds it .gets lower, so that at two inches from the end of the acromion, it is level with the under surface of the bone. It is a deep arteiy, lying, in its course, an inch back from the inside of the clavicle. This artery must be in danger, if we cut outward from the scalenus. It is lower than the transversalis colli, and if divided near its origin, it will bleed impetuously, and be very difficult to tie, for it may retract close by the subclavian artery, or be hid between the scalenus and the nerves. If divided after it comes out from between the nerves, we must not, unless its mouth be very distinct, strike the tenaculum into it, between the nerves, but should rather look for its trunk nearer the scalenus. Its correspond- ing vein generally runs a little lower, going to the angle between the jugular and subclavian veins. The posterior