47 uiicl ti'flchcfl. r*h6 liyo-thyroiclcus is ^ $hortj musclcj about an inch broad, arising from, and covering the upper half of the wings of the thyroid cartilage, and inserted into the body and a great part of the horn of the os hyoides. It comes as far forward as the side of the notch in the front of the car- tilage, and is separated from its fellow by a septum of cellular substance stretching up from the notch, and which sends a thin layer under the muscle, but sometimes there is an interval of nearly half an inch between them. It is covered by the sterno and omo-hyoidei, which are implanted higher into the os hyoi- des. The hyo-thyroid gland, when it exists, is below it, and if that swell, it is so bound down as to affect both the breathing, arid speech, and swallowing. The muscles must be fairly divided, if we wish to remove the gland. The crico-thyroideus consists of two portions. The foremost is the shortest, and runs directly upwards. The backmost is longer, and runs obhquely back- ward to the horn of the thyroid cartilage. The muscles on the opposite side do not meet in front, but there is, on the crico-thyroid membrane, an intervening space of from a quarter to half an inch, filled with cellular substance. The muscles come nearer each other on the cricoid cartilage itself. Three larger muscles cover the laiyngeal tube more completely. The sterno-hyoideus covers all the front from the sternum to the os hyoides. It varies in breadth from half an inch to near an inch. It is implanted not into the margin of the sternum, but into the internal surface, a little below the top. Those of opposite sides are joined in the front or median line by cellular substance, but sometimes there is, near the sternum, a slight divarication filled up by fascia, on removing which, the sterno-thyroidei which lies below, are seen in the angle. The sterno-thyroideus joins its fellow in the median line, so as to cover the cricoid cartilage and trachea, and it extends more laterally than the former muscle, and, therefore, must be broader. The breadth varies according to the muscularity of the indi\ddual, and the length and slimness of the neck. It is about an inch broad at the top, in some individuals more, and at the bottom is sometimes, but not uniformly, so broiul as to extend from the median line to an inch beyond