157 same. la some instances, the trunk of communication passes clown to it, close on the surface of the longus colli,'behind the subclavian artery, resting on the pleura. In others, either no branch, or only a very small one, goes behind the artery, and the trunk goes in front of it, and then bends back, and a little up, to the plexus or ganglion; or there may be two or more fillets going behind the artery, and one small one in front hooking round like a recurrent. From this ganglion, a short trunk goes to the first thoracic ganglion, which is placed near the head of the first rib, close by the first dorsal nerve, with which it is connected by means of short but thick communications. It is about three quarters of an inch long, and nearly a quarter broad at the upper part, but it becomes smaller as it goes down. Branches are given off from this thoracic ganglion in all directions. The sympathetic nerve does not seem to be sensible in its healthy state, for it may be pricked or pinched without produc- ing pain; neither does its division even on both sides of the neck, in rabbits, cause any apparent effect beyond what is produced by the necessary incision. This, however, is no proof that it might be cut with impunity in man, for in the rabbit, no branch is given off in the neck. We have from the superior ganglion, one continued cord running behind the par vagum to the inferior ganglion, from which all its cardiac branches are given off. In the horse, the case is similar, but the trunk is more intimately adherent to that of the eighth. In the dog, twigs go downward and forward from the superior ganglion, toward the pharynx and larynx; but the main trunk is not much above a quarter of an inch long, and immediately joins the eighth so intimately, that it seems to form a part of it; at the end of the neck a ganglion or plexus is formed by this joint nerve; and the recurrent, amongst other branches, comes off from this. The next nerve to be attended to is the Eighth. This passes down on the transverse process of the atlas, deep, between the internal carotid and internal jugular vein, which overhangs it, and partly also the artery. The eighth, nintli, accessory, and superior jugular, are all intimately connected