374. neurosis, but runs in a strong fibrous channel, on tlie side of the radius. On the ulnar side, the tendon is thatof the extensor carpi ulnaris, which may he felt when tense, but cannot be seen till the posterior annular ligament be cut, for it runs in a channel covered by it, in order to get to the upper end of the metacarpal bone, into the margin, and partly the front, of which it is implanted, covered by the abductor minimi digit!. If we take the tendons behind, from the radial side, we find, first, the small one, of the extensor primi internodii, close by the posterior margin of that of the extensor ossis metacarpi. It runs down by the outer, or radial, margin of the bone of the thumb, bound to it by firm aponeurosis. Then, we have the larger tendon of the extensor secundi internodii, crossing those of the radial extensors of the wrist, and running by the inner margin of the back of the thumb. Just behind the tendon of the extensor ossis meta- carpi is that of the extensor carpi radialis longior, going to the outer margin and back of the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger, and then that of the brevior, going to that of the midfinger, in a line by its radial side. Both are retained in channels, covered by the posterior annular liga- ment, and lined with synovial membrane, and both are crossed by the tendons of the extensor secundi internodii. Next, we have the tendon of the extensor digitorum com- munis; then, that of the minimi digit!; and, lastly, thatof the extensor carpi ulnaris. In the front, if we go from the radial side, we have after the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi, that of the flexor radialis, passing under the carpal ligament, close by the ulnar margin of the trapezium, overhung by its projecting process, and contained in a syn- ovial sheath. It goes deep, to be implanted into the upper end of the metacarpal bone of the fore, and partly of that of the mid finger. Close by it, and deep, is the tendon of the flexor pollicis. Then, the space to the pisiform bone is filled with the flexors of the fingers, (sublimis and profundus,) that of the forefinger lying about three quarters of an inch inward, from the outer margin of the radius. Lastly, the tendon of the flexor ulnaris is implanted into the pisiform