380 divaricating from each other, whilst tl)e palmar aponeurosis expands between them. It is broader at its origin than its insertion, for it tapers in the ulnar direction. Under these, and therefore not seen till they be removed, is the adductor, rising also from the ligament and unciform bone, and inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone. A very little of the adductor is seen near the carpal ligament, covering the tendon of the long flexor, but this speedily comes out from below it, and, in its turn, hides that part which is not quite covered by the flexor brevis. From the annular ligament, there passes inward, the thin layer of subcutaneous muscle, called palmaris brevis, expanded on the upper part of the ulnar muscular border. Between these two fleshy borders, in the palm, we have the tendons of the flexores digitorum, sublimes et profundi, with the lumbricales, which, with the bursae, unite them, as it were, in a mass. The tendons of the sublimis are most super- ficial in the palm; but, near the middle of the first phalanx, each splits into two strong tendons, between which that of the profundus appears, and partly lies on these lateral tendons, so that when it is I'aised, it seems to have been in a kind of Sutter. It is from the radial marsin of the tendons of the profundus that the lumbricales rise. Their short slender tendons pass down in front of the transverse ligament, which binds one metacarpal bone to another, and exterior to the fibrous sheath, to be inserted into the radial side of the top of the first phalanx. On cutting through all these tendons, w'e expose the deep hollow on the carpal and metacarpal surface, with the interossei between the bones. These send a delicate tendon, behind the transverse ligament, down the side of the fibrous sheath of the flexor tendon, to be inserted into the back of the ulnar side of the first phalanx, anterior to the insertion of the posterior interossei. The fascia passes off" behind, from the annular ligament, to envelope the hand, and complete the glove behind. The veins and nerves are under, or partly involved in it, whilst it is adherent, by cellular substance, to the synovial sheath of the tendons, so as slightly to keep them together, or connect