cate, till they terminate at the margin of the tongue. Their number varies from twenty, down to a very few. The fungi- form, or capitatae, are smaller, more globular, and are found chiefly toward the border, and middle part of the tongue. The conical, are still more numerous, and scattered over the whole dorsum, from the lenticular to the tip. The whole dorsum of the tongue, certainly secretes mucus, but, of the papillae, the lenticular ai*e most evidently glandular. The follicular portion is softer, and, somewhat, resembles pearl-coloured vesicles, but it is not vesicular, nor does fluid issue, if punctured. Often, but not always, at the angle formed by the bands of papillae, we observe a large follicle, surrounded bv a fold of the covering of the tongue, like a kind of prepuce, which forms what is called the foramen coecum. It is placed an inch, or more, forward from the root of the epiglottis. Peeling off" the vascular membrane, from the face of the epiglottis, and raising it forward, off the base of the tongue, we expose the bare corium, and follicles, and trace the former on to the papillae. Under this vascular membrane, is seen, when we make a vertical section of the epiglottis and tongue, a layer more or less distinct, of a soft yellowish or buff substance, which is traced from the epiglot- tis to the follicles, in which it is lost, or, of which it is a contin- uation. At the angle, between the tongue and epiglottis, we have a plexus of small veins with smaller arteries. Within, or behind this, on the face of the epiglottis, is a layer of fibrous substance, which connects the epiglottis, to the pos- terior margin of the os hyoides, extending all the way to the appendices, or nearly an inch, and forming what some have called the crescentic membrane. This sends a layer forward, over the upper surface of the os hyoides, to be blended or lost in the follicles, and in the origin of the genio-hyo-glossus, which rises, fleshy, from the anterior margin of the os hyoides. The lingualis is also connected with it. The follicular layer, corium, or whatever it may be called, rises, in one respect, from the crescentic membrane, and also may be traced a little way up, on the front of the epiglottis.