416 covered by a deep fascia, that, at the tuberosity, is found to be reflected outward, on tlie gluteus. In short, when we make a clean dissection, we find the muscle below, and the end of the rectum covered by a fascia, forming the floor of this pit, and, by its adhesion to the ramus and inside of the tuberosity, shuting up the pelvis there, or fixing the levator to the bone. We may cut this, and then we can trace a layer going up between the levator and the obturator. It is into this pit that we cut in the operation for lithotomy, and it is here that we find some important arterial branches. Having cut the transversalis penis, and exposed the Levator, as far as it can be done, by removing the fat, we find, that it is every where spread on the face and sides of the rec- tum, adhering to it, and hiding it. But, by introducing a finger into the gut, we find that it is immediately behind the shelving muscular sheet, and must be opened, if that be rashly divided; for it bulges forward, and really occupies, though deeply, a part of the perinaeal region. If the urethra be cut off, we find the muscle covered, toward the pubis, by the triangular fascia, and, toward the anus, by the continuation of that already noticed. The two levatores meet in the me- dian line, below the margin of the triangular fascia, whilst higher they divaricate, and, in the intervening space, the urethra enters. At the sides, or ramus, we find the muscle attached to the bone by fascia, which must be cut before we can get the finger up between it and the obturator. In the course of the erector, it is separated from it merely by the triangular fascia, and its continuation, and both being attached to this common medium, they may be said to be connected. Pressing the finger upward, on the face of the muscle, we feel the border of the triangular fascia; and, if a staff be in the urethra, we feel it when it is passing into the pelvis, but, beyond that, it is indistinct, from the intervention of the muscle. If we now carefully detach the muscle, both fi’om the ramus and at the triangular ligament, and from its adhesion to the bulb, which rests on, and is attached to it, still keeping in