311 gin at the top, dividing the capsule, then, the subscapularis, by sinking the blade, and, lastly, the outer muscles, by sink- ing the handle. Or, having divided the subscapularis and upper part of the capsule, the knife may be introduced be- tween the head of the bone, at the inside, and the margin of the glenoid cavity, and every thing which remains, cut, by carrying it outward. The arm being removed, the mouth of the axillary artery is seen, in a line down from the acro- mion to the side, with the nerves and veins nearer the angle of the scapula. The posterior circumflex is found near the margin of the glenoid cavity. The infra-scapularis is not touched. The axillary artery is divided some way below the origin of both of these branches. The great vein and nerves, are nearer the side, or thorax, than the artery. In describ- ing the muscles divided, I do not mean to say that we are to do so slowly, and, seriatim, in an undeviating order, for we do not employ much time. But he who knows best, the bands or tendons which bind the joint, and the situation of the muscles, will be most expert in his operation. It has been proposed to do the whole by transfixing the parts, or otherwise making, at once, two deep flaps, but this is impossi- ble, for we cannot, by any dexterity, divide all, that is to be divided, by two strokes. From the posterior fold of the axilla, downward, to the elbow, the back part of the arm is formed by the triceps. The long head, comes out behind, or, to the outside of the latissimus, and teres major, between this last and the teres minor. To all of these it adheres by cellular substance, and also, by similar substance, to the upper part of the bone, to no part of which is it firmly attached; and lower than the meeting with the brevis, that head, is interposed between it and the bone. The second head, rises little more than half an inch below the neck of the bone, and continues its origin by strong tendinous strips for fully three inches. It appears from between the longus and deltoid, at from two and a half, to three inches, above the end of the insertion of the latter. It immediately joins the longus, but does not unite with it, till four inches below the neck. It forms the outer portion, or half