no is no tlifficulty in finding this artery, for the scalenus leads to it. Let the jugular vein be drawn outward, and the carotid pressed a little inward, so as to expose the line of connexion between the scalenus and longus at the top of the clavicle, and on separating these, or at the lower part, without doing so, the artery is found; but in cutting so deep, in this direc- tion, the thyroid artery most probably must be divided. This is not the worst evil to be apprehended, for no ligature could safely be applied to the vertebral, on account of its connexion with the branches of the sympathetic nerve. Were it wounded at the lower portion, it should be scarcely more safe, in the confusion of parts produced by an wound, to tie the subclavian before it gives it off, and as the vessel is too large to be let alone, there are only two methods to be pursued; to draw out the mouth of the vessel, if it can be seen in the wound, and thus, insulating it as far as possible, tie it, or to tie the innominata. It can only be by an oblique wound made from the outside of the neck, by an instrument passing behind the jugular vein, that this vessel can be individually wounded, and this is not likely to happen, or if it do, there is much reason to fear that the sympathetic nerve has also been injured. An open wound in front must cut the jugular vein or carotid artery, or both, and little time can be allowed to tie the innominata, but I know that syncope can restrain the flow even of patent wounds for some time here. A punc- tured wound, if it pass through the vein to the artery, may be cured by pressure, and varicose aneurism formed. In a sabre-wound of the artery higher, between the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrae, it would come to be a question whether to tie the innominata, or the vessel at the inter-transverse space below the wound, provided the introduction of a plug between the processes, with pressure on the artery at the spot where it was wounded, failed. An incision would require to be made between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, if the wound had been only a puncture. If an open wound, we have scarcely to enlarge it. Divide the deep muscles and anterior inter-transversalis, the artery runs up before the nerve, and