462 on the surface of the rectus, which is thus contained in a sheath of fascia. The sartorius, which lies on the surface, has, in like manner, a thin layer going over and fixing it, so that this muscle also is in a sheath. Lastly, the tensor is implanted into the strong fascia by a broad, thin tendon, lost in or on it. This construction requires attention, for as the fascia con- tinues down, not only to the knee, but along the leg, we find that, if pricked, or otherwise hurt, it inflames, and pus forms beneath it, which may be long retained, and extensively undermine it. About the knee joint, if this be let out early, and the limb kept easy, and the parts kept in contact by a roller, the patient recovers. But, if allowed to remain, the joint becomes stiff, perhaps irreparably diseased. In all such affections, we must not forget the account given of the im- plantation of the tendons about the joint. In other instances of fascial inflammation, the matter extends along the whole thigh; and, if the patient is to be saved, it is only by judicious openings and methodical bandaging. From in- flammation of veins, which are involved in the fascia, we often have it extensively affected, and the whole limb swells to a great size. The connexions and fixtures of the fascia, also explain how, in puncture of the great artery, the swelling may be much circumscribed, and even the pulsating character of the aneurism lost. Let us next attend to the anatomy of dislocation and fracture. We cannot study either, perfectly, by artificial displacement, but we gain, thereby, much knowledge, which may be advanced and improved by cases occurring in the living subject. The most frequent species is that on the dorsum; and a little consideration must convince us, that the appearances cannot, in every instance, be equally well marked. It is evi- dent, that the shortening of the limb must be proportioned to the elevation of the head of the bone, which is not alike in every instance, neither is it always carried to the same de- gree backward. Much depends on the direction of tiie forcing cause, and its elevating power, as well as the degiee