2.54 are two tilings to be attended to here; that the ligature be firmly tied round the plug, for I have seen it slip, and, that the plug be neither too large nor too small. The plug, whether of sponge or lint, must be so large as, when pressed, to fit the aperture, the dimensions of ivhich have formerly been given. The other, and last, branch of the internal maxillary, is the infra-orbitar. It enters the orbit, by the anterior, or inferior, foi’amen lacerum, along with the infra-orbitar nerve, gets im- mediately on the floor of the orbit, and soon into a groove or canal, which ends in the infra-orbitar foramen, through which both artery and nerve issue. The artery supplies the parts here, and anastomoses with the other facial branches. It, in its course, gives twigs to the muscles of the eye, lachrymal sac, &c. The Superficial Temporal artery remains to be noticed. It passes out from the parotid gland, and up over the zygo- ma at its root, just before the ear, behind the vein, and be- fore the temporal branch of the fifth nerve. It does not perforate the parotid fascia, but is covered by it, or at least involved in it, as it goes up on the temporal muscle. The fascia becomes thinner as it ascends from the zygoma, and at last, is merely cellular. On the zygoma, the artery is not only covered by thin fascia, but also by the anterior auris muscle. Before passing the zygoma, the middle tempoi'al artery is given off, which runs up close before the trunk of the tem- poral, and plunges through the aponeurosis, just above the> zygoma, and ramifies in the substance of the temporal mus- cle, anastomosing with the deeper arteries. Sometimes, it does not come off, till the artery pass the zygoma. The trunk then proceeds up, on the aponeurosis, till it reach, about opposite the junction of the helix and skin of the temple. There, it divides into two branches, one of which, the poste- rior, ramifies backward, and anastomoses with the occipital, and auricular; the other, the anterior, ramifies forward, anas- tomosing on the forehead, with the frontal, and with branches from the other side. It also sends a branch downward and