101 muscle drawn a little forward. When the artery rises low, it sometimes mounts parallel to the carotid, and intimately adherent to it. The lingual artery, at its origin, is intimately connected with veins. The external jugular vein, often descends just in front of the artery as it is entering under the hyo-glossus, or, if the facial vein end in the internal jugu- lar, it may lie on the artery, or cross just by its under margin. The ranular vein, comes downward and backward on the hyo-glossus, and crosses the artery near its origin, to get to the internal jugular. The deeper lingual veins, or the comites, accompany the artery, one lying close by its upper, another by its under margin. The pharyngeal vein passes down on the inside of the lingual nerve and artery, between them and the constrictors, and joins the comites, the united trunk entering either into the facial or internal jugular vein. Now, from this view, it will appear that the operation, of tying the lingual artery, is neither free from difficulty nor uncertainty. The artery often comes off with the facial, and in that case we cannot say exactly where it is to be found, for it may pass under the hyo-glossus, higher or lower. Taking, however, our chance of finding the artery, in the course usually described, then, we would make an incision parallel to the horn of the os hyoides, and just above it, extending from the side of the body of the bone to the margin of the mas- toid muscle. We do not carry this deeper than the cellu- lar substance, that we may avoid the external jugular vein, should a vein of that description exist in that situation in the individual. It often passes down just in front of the origin of the lingual artery. If it do, it is to be drawn aside; if it do not exist, then we expect a large branch, corresponding to it, to enter the internal jugular, and very likely to cover the artery we are seeking. The dissection is to be continued cau- tiously, and if this cross or oblique vein present, it is to be drawn down. We then feel for the horn of the os hyoides, and at its extremity we generally have the ranular vein, which may either be drawn down or raised upward, according to its vici- nity to the horn. A lymphatic gland is sometimes met with here, increasing the obscurity. Clearing the part by a little