.510 deltoid ligament rises from the inferior margin of the malle- olar process, and goes down to the inside of the astragalus, os calcis, and even the naviculare. It receives its n^me from being narrow above, and broad below; but sometimes it is broad above, rising more extensively from the tibia. None of these ligaments can be displayed, till the aponeuro- sis and tendons be removed. The astragalus is connected to the os calcis by a strong band, called the interosseous ligament, which runs between the bones, in a sulcus of the former. It is embedded in cellu- lar fatty-looking substance, and consists of a rounded liga- ment made broader by fibrous fasciculi. A capsule is found at the margius, strengthened by a strong external ligament, going downward and a little backward, from the astragalus to the side of the os calcis, and a posterior one, going behind, between the respective margins. The astragalus is connected to the naviculare by a fibrous capsule, strengthened on the upper part, or dorsum, by a broad band going obliquely forward from the one to the other. The surfaces are covered with synovial membrane. The os calcis is joined to the naviculare by a capsule, strengthened by two ligaments. The inferior, is flat, and runs horizontally on the under surface; the external, runs from the inner side of the os calcis to the naviculare. Fibres or bands, extend also on the upper surface, and to the cuboides. If we clean the plantar surface of the foot, we see two strong broad ligaments extending forward. They are called the plantar. The longest goes from the under surface of the os calcis, forward to the cuboides and metatarsal bones. The shortest, called also the oblique, goes more exclusively to the cuboides. The other bones are connected not only by a general fibrous expansion, but by individual interosse- ous flat ligaments) divided, according to their situation, into dorsal and plantar. The metatarsal bones are bound to each other at their tarsal extremities by a transverse dorsal and plantar liga- ment, wanting between those of the great and the adjoining toes. The digital extremities are connected by intermedi-