4<^4i the fascia propria, ami intercolumnar fibres. Or, from the relation of the muscles, it is evident, that the internal oblique, or transversalis, as they arch over tlie sac and cold, may be rendered tense, and act as a band, sometimes just at the margin of the ring, oftener farther up. We have also seen, that frequently the cord passes between two fasciculi of fibres, sometimes very strong, and even in- closing it like a sheath. These may compress the sac, as if between two bands. The aperture, in the fascia, may also, if the margin be strong, and distended by the tumour, re-act on it, and grasp it. This is rendered more effective by the tendon of the transversalis. Both the muscular and tendin- ous structures act at the upper aperture, where, especially in smaller and recent hernia, the stricture usually is situated. Another cause, operating at that spot, is contraction of the neck, or orifice of the sac itself, in consequence of inflamma- tion, induced by pressure, or other causes. It is not my intention to repeat here, the usual instructions given for accomplishing reduction. I believe, in every instance after death, a hernia can, if there be no adhesion, be easih' reduced. During life, the difficulty proceeds very much from the elasticity of the protruded parts, or their curling over the margin of the stricture, during pressure, and carrying it before them. A fold may also be so placed, during pressure, as to act like a valve, and prevent the return even of flatus. The seat of a stricture also is tense, and re-acts on the part attempting to distend or force it. After death, all these causes cease, more or less, to operate. Could we, by any means, induce, without killing the patient, the same local state that exists after death, or lessen, if not destroy, the elasticity of the part, without inducing gangrene, we should generally succeed. This we cannot do; but we can approximate. I have shown, in the first volume, that we may by cold, render an intestine perfectly flaccid and pale, without killing it. The application of pounded ice, in a bladder, to the part, for such a time as effectually to act on and alter the condition of the contents, is one of the most likely means of success. This may be rendered more j)ower-