307 from tlie acromion, to its mai'gin, is four inches broad : the front is less. Tracing round the shoulder, we see, first, in front, the pectoralis major, then, the deltoid overlapping in part the former, or if we go lower, we have first the biceps, then the deltoid. Looking from the back, we have the del- toid, with part of the infra-spinatus seen behind it. Lower than the latter, we see the latissimus dorsi, and between it and the deltoid, the long head of the triceps. Farther down, we have, at the fold of the axilla, the latissimus, then, the long head of the triceps, then the deltoid. Relaxing the deltoid, and turning it forward, we see, first, the long, and then, more forward, close on the bone, the second head of the triceps. Turning on the other hand, the front of the deltoid, back, we see that it has been covering part of the subclavius, and of the pectoralis minor, the coracoid pro- cess, with the coraco-brachialis, and short head of the biceps; then, farther out, is the long head, then, the capsule and bone. The tendon of the pectoralis major slips under the deltoid. In the most common Dislocation of the humerus, into the axilla, the head of the bone passes out of the lacerated cap- sule, by the under margin of the subscapularis, or between it and its small fasciculus already noticed. The head, or neck, is bounded, above, by the subscapularis, below, by the small fasciculus, when that is not torn, and by the teres ma- jor; before, by the coraco-brachialis and biceps; behind, by the triceps, and the head, thus placed, in a kind of quadran- gle, and sometimes partly resting on the bare scapula, may be grasped, on all sides, by the contraction of these muscles. The nerves and vessels, are thrown backward or downward, on the subscapularis, the external cutaneous nerve is apt to be stretched, and so is the anterior circumflex artery. The deltoid muscle is more or less stretched, according as it pre- serves its connexion, with the upper part of the humerus. Both heads of the biceps, and the coraco-brachialis, are tightened, by passing over the bulging head of the bone, and the latter is sometimes partly torn. The tendon of the long head, sometimes, partially, starts from the groove. The subscapularis being pressed up, if not torn, must be stretched.