167 and large, as to pour out much blood; and, in one case, it was found necessary to desist from attempts to dissect olf the muscles, which were cut through above and below, and removed with the gland. No particular inconvenience afterwards resulted from their loss. Klein was surprised to find, that in dissecting off a thyroid gland, there was no arterial haemor- rhage. The mystery was explained, by finding that his patient had died in'the preliminary stage. Besides the haemorrhage, which may take place from distinct vessels, there is a discharge from the substance of the gland itself, and the surface to which it has adhered, so that it is not always possible to remove the gland. In such cases, after detaching as much of the tumour as could be safely done, the remainder has been included in a double ligature, and the rest then cut off, leaving the middle portion to slough. In the natural state, the gland adheres more loosely to the trachea than to the cricoid cartilage, and this fortunately continues often to be the case in disease. It is easy to remove the^ gland, in the dead subject, even if a little enlarged, without injuring the trunk of the recurrent nerve; but, if greatly swollen, it must be very difficult to do so during life; and in those malignant diseases, where the operation should be most demanded, we find that the adhesions are more intimate. We dare not leave any part of such a tumour, but require to go rather beyond its boundaries. I feel justified, then, in looking on this operation as vei*y hazard- ous, independent of the risk of hemorrhage; and, if any faith can be placed on experiments made to ascertain the effects of dividing the recurrent nerve, we must admit, that when the gland was supposed to be extirpated, either part of it which the nerve naturally skirted, and in which it could scarcely fail to have been involved, had been left, or that the nerve had, notwithstanding the bleeding and the depth of the dissection, made a most wonderful escape. Only one lobe of the gland may be diseased, and this extends sometimes laterally over the carotid, receiving motion from it, so that it resembles aneurism. There is a narrow slip of gland sometimes running up on the front of the thyroid cartilage, to the os hyoides. This may swell and insinuate