181 The arterial branches to be attended to are the following. The vertebral is given off before reaching the scalenus. It runs up deep by the outside of the carotid, or obliquely behind it. Just at the margin of the scalenus, we have the mammaria interna, which, like the vertebral, is so deep, that any dis- section injuring it, is likely to open the subclavian itself at the same part; from the upper part of that artery, and more super- . ficial than these, though still very deep, comes the thyroid axis, which gives off branches, some of which are apt to be injured. The axis itself, which is sometimes near a quarter of an inch in diameter, is safe, so long as the jugular vein is not turned aside. The thyroid ramus goes upward and inward under the carotid; and, therefore, so long as that artery is safe, it can only be touched near the axis. The ascending branch mounts on the scalenus by the inside of the phrenic nerve. It is covered by the jugular vein, but sometimes a branch from it lies farther out than the margin of the vein. The only branches then which can be injured, so long as the great artery and vein are safe, are those which run outwardly to the neck or shoulder. The transversalis humeri, comes olF nearly three quarters of an inch above the clavicle, and runs outward and downward across the scalenus, so that about the outer margin of that muscle, it is nearly level with the upper surface of the clavicle. It passes outward, in the angular space between the mastoid and trapezius, toward the shoulder. It passes in front of the emerging subclavian, between it and the clavicle, and if it be wounded here, the subclavian can scarcely escape; but nearer its origin, it alone may be wounded in the district of the scalenus. It also gives a branch which runs inward over the jugular vein toward the sternum. The transversalis humeri is sometimes very large, but even when small, it will bleed much. The transversalis colli is another thyroid branch, and is larger or smaller, according to the extent of its distribution. It comes off from the axis fully three quarters of an inch above the clavicle. It passes outward on the surface of the scalenus, over the axillary nerves, sca- lenus posticus, and levator scapulae, and under the omo- hyoideus and trapezius. It in some cases divides into twoj