309 In dislocation backward, the head of the bone appears between the infra-spinatus and teres minor. As the bone goes out by the under margin of the former, it is little stretched, but the teres is more so, for it is curved over the neck. The supra-spinatus is also stretched, so is the sub- scapularis. The biceps and coraco-brachialis are not mate- rially affected. The coraco-humeral ligament is tightened. Very little extension is required in reduction, which is rather accomplished by rolling the bone outward, but if the arm be much elevated, this will turn the head into the axilla, which is also, in part, to be guarded against by the hand. After reduction, the joint should be kept at vest, and perhaps a bandage would be useful, to reunite the teres and infra-spin- atus, for if this do not take place, and the capsule remain also open, the head of the bone, is apt, ever afterwards, to go out in particular motions. In Fracture of the humerus, near its head, cailled the chir- urgical neck, just below the tubercles, we find^ that if these be not detached, the subscapularis and teres minor nearly balance each other, and press the head on the socket. Both the infra and supra-spinatus, but particularly the latter, tend to roll the head, and turn tlie cervix a little outward. The teres major, latissimus, and pectoralis major, bring the end of the shaft more toward the axilla. The deltoid, not only draws up the shaft, if fairly separated from the line of the cervix, and, consequently, not resisted by any part of its fractured surface, but it also co-operates with the preceding muscles, in turning the end of the shaft toward the axilla, by drawing outward and upward, the middle of the shaft where it is implanted. The biceps, coraco-brachialis, and triceps longus, draw up the bone, the last can draw the shaft rather backwaid, the second a little inward. The practice is evi- dent; the shaft being drawn downward, is to be pressed out- ward, and prevented, by a pad in the axilla, from coming again inward. The elbow is not to be pressed up, or more supported, than is necessary to prevent the uneasy feeling of dragging. If the fracture be smooth, the upper surface may be directed obliquely outward, and, in this view, we