268 the more resisting, or better supported parts, plaster may be sufficient, but in the looser parts, as the lip, the twisted suture is to be employed, and this is sometimes even required on the cheek. Puncture of the parotid duct, may be cured, without the obliteration of the portion nearest the extremity. But com- plete division of the tube, does not admit of reunion, so as to make a continuous canal. The saliva flows from the divided duct, and a fistula, as it is called, is produced. If the wound go through the buccinator, into the mouth, we have only carefully to close the outer part of the wound, and leave the inner surface, toward the mouth, unapproximated, so that a fistula is produced, opening into the mouth. The saliva flows thus, as if the duct were entire, only it enters a little farther back. If the duct be certainly divided, but the buc- cinator still entire, we must act on the same principle, push the knife through the muscle, and unite the external surface; for, in all such divisions, there must be a fistula, and we have only to choose, whether that shall open into the mouth, or outwardly, on the cheek, producing a perpetual flow of saliva there. The choice is not difficult to make, and if the duct be divided on the buccinator, a good cure may be effected. But, only about three-eighths of an inch, of the duct, run there, whilst thei’e may be about three quarters of an inch, on the masseter muscle. If the masseteric portion be divided, near the margin of the muscle, the treatment may be expected, at once, to succeed. But if divided farther back, the sinus which is to lead to the mouth, must be very oblique, and there is a risk of the saliva infiltrating itself into the surrounding parts, if it be prevented from flowing, by the external wound. It has been proposed, when an external fistula has taken place, (and in recent wounds, the same plan may be resorted to as a preventive,) to introduce a small trocar, from the wound, obliquely forward, to the buccinator, and pierce it. A piece of soft silver, or lead wire, is then introduced through the canula, which is next withdrawn. The trocar is again introduced from the same spot, but made to enter the mouth, at a little distance from the first puncture. The