260 the fifth, covered by the internal maxillary, is Mekel’s, or the spheno-palatine ganglion, small, flat, and irregular. It lies so deep, and is so defended by muscles, that it is not easily involved in any tumour, and can only be wounded by an instrument, going deep as the fissure itself. It gives off, up- ward, very short branches to connect it with the fifth. Sunk deep, it sends backward, through the pterygoid canal, the Vi- dian branch, which, on coming out of the anterior foramen lacerum, divides into two. One division, passes along the foramen caroticum, down to the superior ganglion of the sym- pathetic nerve, connected with the carotid artery. Another, turns up into the cranium, and enters a groove of the tempo- ral bone, where it is connected with the portio dura, and pro- ceeds Into the tympanum. This it crosses, as the chorda tym- pani, and issues at, or runs along, the glenoid fissure, for no part is seen in the articulating cavity. It appears like a small thread, just at the inside of the styloid process of the sphenoid bone, is speedily connected with the gustatory nerve, which it presently leaves, and forms a plexus round the submaxillary gland. From its origin, to its issue, at the styloid process, no part is visible, being hid by bone, and the fibrous mem- brane, covering the foramen lacerum. Other branches of the ganglion, the lateral nasal, go inward by the spheno-pala- tine fissure into the nose. One of these, goes down, even in- to the foramen incisivum, where, joining with the twig from the opposite side, it forms, what has been called, lately, the naso-palatine ganglion. Twigs, from this third division of the branches, go also to the palate. The fourth direction is downward, and these branches form the palatine nerves. The great palatine nerve, after sending a twig into the nose, descends in the pterygo-palatine canal, which ends in the palato-maxillary foramen. It is accompanied by the descend- ing palatine artery. Both ramify in the palate, and may be divided, by cutting at the roof of the mouth, close by the alve- olar process of the last tooth. The middle palatine nerve, comes out at a small foramen, before the pterygoid plate, and goes to the soft palate. The small palatine, is behind, and goes also to the velum, uvula, and amygdala.