high in the axilla, the proper mammary branch, arose from the brachial artery, and ran inward, across the fascia of the armpit to the breast; indeed, even when the mammaria is large and regular, this other branch so frequently exists in both sexes, that it may be admitted into our arrangement, under the name of the Thoracica Brachialis. Or, from the infra-scapular, originating high, there has been given off a branch, crossing the axila, to the serratus and thorax, down under the pectoralis major. Or, from the longa, a branch has turned up between the two pectoral muscles. From the longa, or inner division of the supi-ema, rami- fications are sent into the cellular substance, and around the glands in the axilla; but, in other instances, there is given off, pretty high, a distinct, but not large branch, particularly for this purpose, called the Thoracica Alaris. When the alaris arises separately, it is not confined to the glands, &c., but also goes inward to the seiTatus, sometimes principally to it. There is, then, it appears, great irregularity in the origin, and distribution, of the lower thoracic arteides. The branches given off, at the under margin of the sub- scapularis, are the infra-scapularis, and the anterior, and posterior circumflex arteries. The Infra-scapular artery, usually, arises from the axillary, just, at the margin of the subscapularis muscle. If we draw the nerves toward the angle of the scapula, leaving the great artery in situ, we see the origin of this vessel. It comes off, deep, behind the vein and the nerves, and is covered by its corresponding vein, and both, by a firm cellular coat or fascia, so that in dissecting into the axilla, that vein is first seen, and the artery, which it hides, is felt pulsating below it. The infi'a-scapulary nerve runs rather higher. All the nerves run down over, or on the face of the infra-scapular artery, except the articular, or circumflex, which is crossed by it. In some instances, this artery rises higher, and therefore will run, more obliquely, to the margin of the subscapularis, at the triceps. It runs along the margin of the subscapularis, between it and the teres major, to the posterior margin of the triceps,