38 till it terminate in the oesophagus at the end of the cricoid car- tilage. It is divided, though not with much utility, into three portions, each covering, to a certain extent, the one which is lower. It is not a tube, for it is deficient in front, quite open or vacant at the top where it communicates with the mouth, and is in a manner bordered by the circumflexus palati; lower, it is shut up or completed into a tube by its attachment to the laryn- geal cartilages, and the mucous membrane wliich lines it. The particular origins of the different constrictors, may be learned from the ordinary works on anatomy. The connected muscle arises from, or is fixed and attached to the cuneiform process of the occipital bone, just before the inserting of the recti, from the inner plate and hook of the pterygoid process, from both jaws at the last grinder, from a band which passes between them, and gives origin to the buccinator, with which it intei- mixes, from the side of the tongue and palate, from the appendix and horn of the os hyoides and hyo-thyroid border, from the margins of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. Hence, it is evident that the moveable parts must move in the con- traction of the constrictors, and the laryngeal cartilages are drawn up. Internally, the constrictors are lined wdth a mucous membrane, which is continued over the back part of the laryngeal cartilages, so as to complete the tube of the pharynx there, for it is only muscular at the sides and back. On shtting up the pharynx, the membrane is seen continuous all along the back of the arytenoid and cricoid cartilages. If we remove this from the back of the cricoid cartilage, no red fibres are seen in the middle; but at the sides they are discovered, and are those of the crico-arytenoi- deus posticus. At one part of the upper portion a thin layer of muscular fibres is interposed between the membrane and the constrictor, namely, the palato-pharyngeus, which forms the posterior arch of the palate, as the constrictor isthmi faucium does the anterior. The constrictors are defended by many muscles; foremost are the pterygoidei, next the stylo-hyoideus, and lower the digastric; deeper we have the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus. Piessing the finger between the stylo-hyoideus and digastric, we touch the con-