a considerable vessel, is given off. It descends in the poste- rior palatine canal, and after giving branches to the velum, gets, by the palato-pterygoid hole, to the palate, on which it ramifies, running, at first, close by the inside of the alveolar processes, and spreading between the palate plate, and soft covering of the palate, adhering to the periosteum, rather than to the covering. It comes out, at the junction of the palate and alveoli, at the back part, corresponding to the inside of the last grinder, or sometimes between it and the next one. An incision here, at the very side of the roof of the mouth, must divide this artery and the accompanying palatine nerve. Were it cut, in extirpating an excrescence, and the haemorrhage difficult to stop, this is the place, to in- troduce a small plug, or apply a bit of caustic. The artery, finally divides into two branches, each of which has been described as the continued trunk, though sometimes the alveolar looks like it. The one, goes to the nose, the other, to the infra-orbitar canal. The nasal artery, called also thespheno-palatine, which is as large as a common probe, gives twigs externally, and speedily enters the spheno-palatine hole, which is situated at the fore part of the root of the pterygoid process, below the posterior foramen lacerum, in a line directly inward, or transverse, from the under margin of the zygomatic suture. A probe, in the dried skull, may be intro- duced into it, by running it in a very little forward, at the bottom of the zygomatic suture, going closely behind the coronoid process; or, by introducing it before the coronoid process, under the malar bone, and directing it a very little upward. In the nose, it enters just above the posterior ex- tremity of the middle, and at the end of the upper, spongy bone, in the superior meatus, fully half an inch forward, from the termination of the vomer, and on a line with the surface of the cuneiform bone. A probe, introduced obliquely up- ward and backward, for about two inches and a quarter, from the root of the septum of the nose, close to it and to the septum, and, then, having its extremity directed outward, or previously a little bent outward, will come as near to it above the middle bone as possible, but still cannot exactly touch it.