34f) surfaces, acting against one another, become broader, when the fore-arm is bent than extended, and, consequently, the obstacle is increased by this, which also tightens the posterior part of the capsule. We should, thei'efore, try direct extension, and then aid this, by pressing the ulna outward. A dislocation outward, requires even more injury of the capsule. The joint is a little broader, for the head of the radius is to the outside, and the coronoid processes on the back, of the outer condyle. The degree of twisting of the for e-arm will depend much on the portion of the capsule which is entire. The treatment is the same, but if it do not tighten the back of the capsule, there is not the same objec- tion to bending the fore-arm, for the outer ridge of the trochlea would rather direct the coronoid process inward, and allow the brachieus and biceps to act favourably in drawing the bones right. Dislocation of the head of the radius, backward, is most likely to take place, when the fore-arm is extended, for then it is not in contact with, nor supported by, the face of the condyle, and when a force is directed backward, in a state of great pronation. Even then, much resistance is afforded by the origin of the extensors, particularly the extensor carpi ulnaris. The annular ligament, and capsule, must be torn. The upper part of the interosseous ligament, is either lacerated or stretched, and so is the oblique ligament. The anterior- face of the head, is placed on the posterior mai-gin, of the articulating surface of the condyle. Its inner side, is pressed on the posterior end of the ulnar sigmoid fossa, whilst a rough ridge, on the very upper part of the outside of the shaft of that bone, and the soft parts covering that, are pressed into the hollow of the neck of the radius. The anconeus is pressed a little inward. The fore-arm is semibent, but can often be extended, and it is somewhat prone, not from the direction of the displaced radius, but from the stretching of the prona- tor teres, which may be more or less. This also, together with the state of the upper part of the ligament, prevents the fore-arm being made much more supine. The biceps is stretched, and more in proportion to the degree of pronation.