224 a continuation of that of the pharynx, along the Eustachian tube, which merits attention in certain diseases. The meatus internus, is in a line, almost directly, in from the external, and, between it and the tympanum, is the labyrinth. At the back part, the tympanum is almost cribriform, being connected witb the mastoid cells, whilst, from the anterior and inner part, goes off the Eustachian tube, which altogether is about an inch and a half long, and opens by an oval, or somewhat trumpet-shaped aperture, about a quarter of an inch long, on the upper and back part of the pharynx, behind the inner plate of the pterygoid process, and hid by the velum. If we wish to introduce a probe or bougie into it, that must be car- ried along the floor of the nostril; but as this is a very little arched, we must go neither upward nor downward, but directly back, and, then, if the end be slightly bent, and the point turned outward, it will enter the tube, about five-eighths of an inch, back from the margin of the bony palate. It passes on easily for nearly an inch. This is a manipulation rarely practised, and still more rarely either necessary or useful. Inflammation of the tympanum, is often followed by suppuration, and tbe matter is usually discharged by the ex- ternal meatus, very rarely by the Eustachian tube. If in- flammation spread to the mastoid cells, and matter form, it is long, though partially confined there; at last it escapes through the absorbed or destroyed surface, and points behind the ear. If the disease be circumscribed, and go no farther, the patient, with the exception of pain, at first, may suffer little, and ultimately recover. Much more frequently, the disease of the bone extends, often a considerable part is ab- sorbed, so that the dura mater may be touched with a probe. Pus is formed between this and the bone, and the patient dies comatose. In other cases, the inflammation appears either to be originally in the labyrinth, or soon spreads to it; the dura mater participates, and perhaps the brain also. Pus forms, and the patient dies, as in the former case, but gener- ally much more rapidly. If we wish to make a perforation, to let out matter from within the cranium, we must remem-