262 not only I'amifies on and in the buccinator, but sends down- ward and forward, in the direction of the alveoli of the lower jaw, a long branch, which is distributed to the angle of the mouth and lower lip, connecting itself with twigs of the por- tio dura. The nerve, at its issue from within the coronoid process, is first higher, but always deeper, than the parotid duct, and, then, from its oblique course, a little lower. Some- times, it issues in small divisions. Before this, it gives a branch to the temporal muscle. Fourth, two or more small pterygoid nerves, go to the muscles of that name, particu- larly the internal. The Second, Auricular, or Superficial Temporal nerve, runs backward and downward, passes between the pterygoid muscles, and down on the inside of the condyle, and upper part of the cervix of the jaw. It, from being.in contact, for some time, with the dental nerve, looks like a branch sent off from it, and it is often very little less than that nerve. It runs to the portio dura, becoming quickly smaller, uniting with it, or form- ing a plexus, whilst, before it is lost in the plexus, a branch, as large as a pack thread, turns up, from the nerve, in the substance of the parotid gland, between the condyle and meatus auditorius, and crosses over the zygoma, be- hind the temporal artery, mounting to the temple, and be- coming cutaneous. Some deep twigs go to the meatus. Its communication with the portio dura, and subsequent transmission of its substance along with it, is a fact of import- ance, in as much as, on the principles of Sir C. Bell, it ex- plains how the portio dura, in so far as it partakes of these branches, should evince sensibility. The third, and fourth, large branches, continue down, between the pterygoid mus- cles, but they then, or during this tract, separate. Both nerves, whether separated, or connected by cellular substance, usually cross, in their descent, the outside of the maxillary artery, about the lower margin of the pterygoideus externus, but, sometimes, the gustatory passes on its inside. The Dental or Mandibulo-labialis, after passing the pterygoideus externus, reaches the posterior margin of the internus, runs down be- tween it and the bone, either just before, or on the inside of,