441 the internal oblique, going behind the cord to the tubercle. It is not unusual to find the cord passing in a slit between two muscular fasciculi, one above, another below, and both partly behind. Lastly, when we take off the muscular portion of the transversalis, we see a thin layer of fascia, which had been interposed between it and the peritonaeum. It is perfo- rated, or has an oval aperture, by which the cord passes out. This is situated nearly above the point where the femoral artery issues, and is called the superior aperture of the in- guinal canal. As soon as the tendon of the transversalis commences, this unites with it, and is inserted, as has been described. When the cord passes out here, we find that the peritonaeum accompanies it, as a covering, and that the peritonaeum, in its turn, is covered by, or carries out with it, a continuation of a thin layer, from the margin of the supe- rior aperture. The cord, therefore, has two coverings, down- ward, from the abdominal parietes, besides the cremaster, fascia propria, and superficial fascia, five in all, under the skin. If, instead of dissecting, seriatim, from the outside, we look from the inner surface, we see, after removing the peritonaeum, the transversalis muscle lined with thin fascia, and which is perforated for the cord, or round ligament, and can be traced in all directions, as formerly explained. It is often strengthened, from the margin of the rectus muscle outward, by perpendicular fibres, which descend to the ex- pansion over Gimbernat’s ligament, to the pelvic fascia and crural ring. Sometimes one band is stronger than the others, especially going to the pubal margin of the ring, and this may tighten the neck of the sac in crural hernia. Ihe cord thus passes obliquely out, and its tract is named the inguinal canal. The front of this is formed by the tendon ol the external oblique muscle, and, at the upper end, by the muscular substance of the internal, partially, by that ol the transversalis. The posterior wall is formed at the top, by the fascia transversalis, and, as soon as the tendon of the transversalis muscle commences, by it, in addition to, or union with, the fascia. As the internal oblique arches over