45 The pharynx is supplied with nerves from the eighth and glosso-pharyngeal, uniting with twigs from the accessory, forming altogether the pharyngeal plexus, which is also increased by filaments from the superior ganglion of the sympathetic nerve. Branches from this plexus' are seen at the sides, but particularly on the back of the pharynx. Lower, the oesophagus is supplied by the eighth. In organic affections of the stomach, particularly of the pylorus, a diffi- culty of swallowing is sometimes an early symptom, and may lead to mistakes. Both in stomachic affections, and in cases where the cervical department of nerves is morbidly sus- ceptible, temporary fits of dysphagia are not uncommon, or the pharynx or oesophagus are easily thrown into irregular or spasmodic action. Attention to the diet, regular use of laxatives, quinine, chalybeates, the cold bath, &c. are useful, and, if these fail, a small issue in the nape of the neck does good. Palsy, or loss of power, is another cause, preventing deglutition. This sometimes takes place in some of those complaints called nervous; but it is more frequent in certain kinds of fever, where the medulla oblongata is much affected. These may arise from excitation of that, and the neighbouring parts, and are often very protracted, and accompanied with various paralytic affections, changing both their place and duration. Loss of speech, dysphagia, dyspnoea, &c. are attendants on these. The early use of the lancet, and of purgatives, followed by an issue in the neck, constitute the most useful practice. Palsy of the pharynx also may attend typhus or scarlet fever, and the patient rnay require to have noui’ishment injected into the stomach, till the power of swal- lowing return. I need scarcely add, that, in apoplexy, and the end of many diseases, the power of swallowing is lost before death. In others, where the nerves of the pharynx are less affected, it continues till the very last. Encysted tumours sometimes form at the side of the pha- rynx, and, if at its upper part, they can be felt from the mouth. If they be originally seated high, and have not pro- duced so much inconvenience as to have required their being opened from the mouth, they gradually extend down along