305 bone, and the margins of their insertions, to be covered by a reflection of the synovial membrane, whilst the fibrous capsule unites witli their margins on the outside. They rather are identified, in substance, at the implantation. Till then, the tendons, in their course along the capsule, are connected to it by cellular substance. The short head of the biceps, and coraco-brachialis, are ad- herent to the capsule or bursa. Both, cover the termination of the tendon of the subscapularis, and the latter, lies on the tendon of the lattissimus dorsi. The coraco-brachialis rises from the inside, whilst the biceps rises from the forepart of the process; but in some instances, they seem to have a common origin, and cannot be separated without violence, till we go an inch or two below the process: or, sometimes the union continues, till the tendinous insertion of the coraco- brachialis, in which case, we might say, the biceps had two heads, and two insertions. The origin of the first is fleshy, that of the second tendinous, and a firm aponeurosis goes off from this tendon, and the origin of the coraco-brachialis, and insertion of the pectoralis minor, down over the vessels and nerves, and the face of the coraco-brachialis, which, at the upper and broadest part, scarcely projects half an inch inward from the biceps, and as it descends, it gets gradually more covered by it, owing, partly, to becoming narrow itself, partly, to its shelving on the face of the bone, as far out as the inner margin of the long head of the biceps, and partly to that muscle becoming broader. At four inches and a half, it is quite behind or beneath the biceps. It begins to be im- planted behind the biceps, at about five inches and a half, below the process, or a little more, according to the length of the arm. 1 he long head of the biceps, is a strong tendon passing fiom the upper margin of the glenoid cavityj within the cap- sule, and out by the bicepital groove, or rather canal, for it is covered by strong fibrous substance, lost in, or continued to, the fascia on the pectoralis tendon. The synovial mem- brane being reflected over the tendon, both at its origin, and from the surface of the lower end of the canal, it may, II. X