434 ramus on withdrawing it, the vessel is safe. A large artery has, as a lusus, run by the side of the gland, and might be wounded. But the great cause of haemorrhage is either the division of veins on the prostate gland, or of the artery of the bulb ; for the two terminal branches of the pudic artery can hardly be injured if the operator keep within his proper limits. Haemorrhage, from the superficial arteries, is some- times considerable, and a ligature may be necessary. The artery of the bulb, if cut, should rather be tied than com- pressed. My object, in this account, is, to enable the student to operate by anatomical rule, in the mode he likes best, re- ferring, for other particulars, to systems of operations. Before describing the groin, it will be useful to make some remarks on the connexion of the abdominal muscles. There is, in the loins, on each side, close by the spine, a thick and tolerably broad mass of muscle. The portion nearest the ridge of the spine, is the longissimus dorsi; the one more outward, is the sacro-lumbalis. Both are covered by the tendon and aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi; and beneath the sacro-lumbalis lies the short muscle, called quadratus lumborum. This is inclosed between two layers of fascia—one rises from the spinous px’ocesses of the vertebrae, and covers the outer surface of the muscle; another, from the transverse processes, lines the inner surface ; and these at its anterior margin unite, forming a sheet, from which arises the transversalis. This fascia, so constructed, is called the lumbar fascia. The tendon, or aponeurosis, of the latissimus dorsi, at the margin of the sacro-lumbalis, dips down, to be lost in this fascia ; and, from the line of implantation, we may trace the fascia back to the spine, or forward to the margin of the quadratus, and thence to the fibres of the transversalis. It is of importance to attend to this arrangement, in consider- ing the effect of strain, lumbago, &c. The External oblique, behind, is bounded by the margin of the latissimus dorsi, where it is going to dip down, and is con- nected to it only by cellular substance, forming a slight line of