328 substance, are easily found. If the incision be made in the proper line, close by the muscle, and its edge be exposed, the median nerve is the first object seen, or felt like a firm cord. It is sometimes even slightly overlapped by the margin of the muscle, but it is impossible to miss it. To the inside of the median nerve, is the great brachial vein, with the internal cutaneous nerve, on its face. Sometimes we do not see the vein, to the inside of these nerves, but the ulnar nerve, which is also farther back, and the two hide the vein. The artery is, on the other hand, covered by the median nerve, which must, therefore, be pressed aside to expose it. In general, we expose the artery best, by gently bending the fore-arm, and then pi-essing all the nerves and brachial vein inward. But if the median nerve, be, more than usual, overlapped by the biceps, it may, in such cases, do to leave it in situ, and press the rest inwai'd. The artery is seen, placed between its two venae comites, unless these be so much distended, as partly to cover it. Looking between these veins, and gently separating them, we find the ai’tery, and, with a pair of narrow pointed forceps, raise its sheath, and slit it up for a little. It is then to be insulated, to the extent of near half an inch, by a director, or blunt probe, and an aneurism needle, with its ligature, carried under it, the extremity being directed out- wards. No sharp instrument is to be employed, for we may cut one or more of those irregular branches, given off to the muscles, especially to the biceps, and, also, toward the inner margin, might injure the profunda inferior, which runs, sometimes, for a considerable way, parallel to, and close by it. The lower we go, the farther does this branch recede inwards, with the ulnar nerve. If it be unusually large, it may resemble the trunk, or we may erroneously suppose, that the ulnar and radial arteries have divided high. But its rela- tions, and, pressing on it, having no effect on the pulsation of either arteries below, will, even in this case, prevent mistake. If we have occasion to tie the brachial artery higher, or near the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, we shall find the same relation of parts, with this difference, that the pro- funda superior, as well as the spiral nerve, are behind the