7^ on .the trachea beneath the sterno-thyroidei muscles. If these swell, they may receive communicated motion from the artery, but this is not generally the case. It is more likely to happen when they suppurate, and if so, the diagnosis is to be formed by the marks mentioned in the first volume. It is only when the subclavian, or the right carotid, are enlarged very near their origin, but the innominata healthy, that we can contemplate the operation of tying that vessel. This is not very difficult to perform, but exceedingly danger- ous in the result. If the carotid be enlarged so near its origin as to prevent our tying it below the aneurism, then, in place of operating on the innominata, it will be better to tie the carotid above the tumour. I know of no such case of carotid aneurism on record as would have warranted the ligature of the innominata. That operation, then, must be confined to the case of subclavian aneurism, extending so high as to pre- vent the ligature of that vessel itself. In this case, the opera- tion is performed by making a transverse incision through the skin, extending from a little beyond the right sterno-clavicular articulation quite to the left articulation. Next we cany the incision up along the anterior margin of the right mastoid muscle for about two inches. The platysmal fascia is then to be divided in the same extent, and especially at the lower part of the margin of the mastoid muscle. The sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles must then be cautiously divided, and the sternal portion of the mastoid muscle on the right side. We do not go deeper than the mere muscle, as some veins lie below it, which we ought not to touch. The incision may be made by cautious cutting, or by inserting a director close by the under surface of the muscle. This part of the operation being performed, we may draw out of the way any venous branches which appear; but the great vessels are still covered by fascia, and cannot be seen distinctly. Part of the carotid artery and internal jugular vein may be seen through the covering. Often, a branch from the thyroid gffind is con- nected by fascia to the jugular vein over the root of the carotid; but a little cautious dissection enables us to expose safely the lower part of the carotid, which is a good guide to