525 under the annular ligament, over the face of the artery, but quickly goes to its outer margin. It is at first covered by the extensor brevis, but after that, is distributed to the skin, on the front and inside of the dorsum. Fourthly, the back of the leg is supplied at the upper part, by the descending branches of the cutaneous nerves on the back of the thigh. But the two principal nerves come off in the ham, one, from the tibial nerve, called the communicans tibite, descends on the fibular margin of the inner head of the gastrocnemius, with a vein to its inside. Sometimes it passes down in the sub- stance of the muscle, even to the calf. It pierces presently the aponeurosis, and sends branches in different directions, whilst the trunk continues down, to be distributed about the inside of the heel, and sole of the foot. The communicans fibulae, in like manner, comes off from the fibular nerve,- often high, even above the ham. It descends on the outer head of the muscle, perforates the aponeurosis about the middle of the leg, and is distributed like the former, only on the outer aspect of the leg, heel, margin, and sole. Its largest division joins the tibial, about the middle of the leg. Both of these nerves often continue under the fascia all the way down, and only send branches through it to the skin. Thus the leg is completely supplied, on every aspect, with cutaneous nerves, which communicate with each other. The deep nerves are the tibial and fibular. The former is ’ the continuation of the great sciatic, and it immediately gives off several very considerable branches to the head of the gastroc- nemius muscle, the soleus, and popliteus. These are seen on removing the fascia from the ham and top of the leg, and separating the heads of the gastrocnemius. The nerve then proceeds down, with the posterior tibial artery, to the ankle, giving in its course branches to the tibialis posticus and flexors. 'I he fibular, or smaller division of the sciatic nerve, just below the head of the bone, divides into two, which de- scend for a little nearly parallel, by the outer margin of the head of the gastrocnemius, at the latero-posterior part of the top of the fibula. The posterior branch, or trunk, as it is