343 bones, the joint does not appear straiglit. Both the external, and internal, lateral ligaments, resist displacement, and must be eitlier torn or stretched. If the anterior fibres of the external one be not torn, they, being stretched, may press the head of the radius, against the back of the condyle. The internal ligament is also extended, and it, with the upper part of the side of the capsule, if not torn, may resist, in so far, the production of the second or greatest degree of luxa- tion. If all the capsule behind, be not torn, but, chiefly, the inner and back part, the fore-arm may, by the action of the rest, which is stretched, be twisted a little inward, with a tendency to throw part of the side of the coronoid process, over the inside of the trochlea. The fold, or portion of capsule, which goes down between the radius and ulna, to the outside of the root of the coronoid process, is stretched, and increiises the tendency to twist. If this be torn, the bones can be carried higher. The aponeurosis, even of the ulnar nerve, is stretched, and if not torn, so as to allow the nerve to start, that is apt to be stretched, and so may the radial, if it keep its cellular connexions, or, the branch it gives to the supinator brevis. The higher branches of the pronator nerves, given olf by the median, are also affected. The brachieus and biceps will be stretched. The extensors, particularly, the extensor ulnaris, are stretched, and so is the anconeus, which may even be partially separated from the extensor ulnaris. The triceps, is in one respect corrugated, but, by the extension of the capsule, some of its fibres may be expanded. Its lateral aponeurosis, and the condyloid origin of the flexor ulnaris, must be more or less tightened, by the carrying back of the olecranon. In the greatest degree of dislocation, unless all the posterior part of the capsule be torn, the proposal of reducing, by bending the fore-arm over the knee, or in any other way, never can succeed. The remaining capsule is tightened, and presses the coronoid process more into the sigmoid cavity, and, till we lacerate the capsule, this plan must fail. Direct extension from the wrist, aided, if neces- sary, by such opposite pressure on the top of the fore-arm, and end of the humerus, as may tend to unlock the bones, is best#