31 witli solution of nitrate of silver, by means of a sponge attached to a curved probe. If lower, we can only apply any thing to the parts in the form of vapour, by inhalation, but we must chiefly depend on an issue over the part, and the spot may be decided by the minute description I have given. In general, it is most useful on the hyo-thyroid and upper part of the thyroid districts, and should extend quite from one side of the thyroid cartilage to the other. If it do good, it does it soon, and it is useless to continue it long. In some cases, this disease is complicated with a relaxation of the uvula, which titilates the upper part of the larynx, and excites cough. It is both easy and safe to cut a little bit off the end of the uvula, but this is seldom necessary, and if there be disease in the larynx, it is only a palliative. The best internal medicines are those which improve the general health, which we should carefully attend to. Opiates are useful in allaying cough. Wlien the fits of suffocation are frequent and severe, or the difficulty of breathing is perma- nent, it is expedient to make an opening in the crico-thyroid membrane, or in the trachea, but this is only of temporary • advantage, and can only be proposed with a view to prolong life for a short time. It may be thought, that slitting up the thyroid cartilage would permit us to remove portions of the diseased parts, and, perhaps, make salutary applications to the rest. But, setting aside the consequences of so extensive exposure of a delicate part, it is to be remembered, that even if dead or diseased portions of cartilage could be extracted, the mucous membrane is in a very diseased state, and cannot be speedily restored to health. Even when we can make applications directly to a mucous membrane, we cannot readily make it healthy. We see this in the urethra, pha- rynx, &c. Further, the disease is seldom long confined to the larynx, but the parts farther down, or the lungs them- selves, are more or less affected. It is not likely, then, that this radical attempt shall be often made. In acute attacks of laryngitis, where we have simply to contend with a limited inflammation, and where the lungs are sound, as in many