409 of the pelvis. The relation of the nerve and vessels has already been noticed. When hernia takes place, it is most likely that the intestines shall pass out above the vessels and nerve. The sac issues about an inch and a half below the tubercle, but fully half an inch more outward. It rests on the obturator externus, between the surfaces of the pec- tineus and triceps longus, so deep, that its neck is an inch and a half from the margin of these muscles. The circumflex vein crosses below it, and sends up two large branches, one before, another behind it, along with corresponding arterial ramuli. This variety of hernia is rare, and so difficult to detect, that I believe most frequently it has not been discovered till after death. If an operation were necessary, the easiest way to expose the sac would be, to cut from a point half an inch out from the tubercle, and a little below it, downward and outward for three inches, but not so much outward as to come on the vena saphena. The fascia being divided, the line between the pectineus and triceps longus may be dis- covered, and these muscles separated so as to expose the sac, which is then to be opened. But it is difficult to say in what direction the stricture should be divided. If we attended merely to the obturator vessels before they pass out, we should cut inward, but if we look at the veins and arterial rami just described as being external, we must see that there is a hazard in cutting in any direction. If we can see the vein on the pubal side of the sac, and draw it and its corre- sponding artery inward, that will be the best direction. - At the arch of the pubis a thick, strong ligament) fully a quarter of an inch broad, stretches across, and fills up the angle. It is called the pubic ligament. From this there descends a fascia, which is very distinct to a certain distance from the ligament, where it becomes thinner. It is generally well marked to about three-eighths of an inch below the liga- ment, where there is a margin felt, whence the thinner and moie indistinct continuation descends all the way to the anus. But there is great variety in this respect, for whilst in some it passes down, without alteration in thickness, for an inch, or