flow if the person be faint. By pressing back the margin of the w'ound the artery is easily taken up. If we wish to expose the trunk of the thyroidea, and to tie it, we make an incision parallel to the margin of the mastoid muscle, between that and the thyroid cartilage, and extending from the horn of the os hyoides to the middle or end of the cartilage, according to the fatness of the patient. We take care of every vein which may be superficial. The fascia, connecting the mastoid muscle to those before it, is to be divided, and the cellular substance behind the horn of the os hyoides and the cartilage, between them and the carotid, slightly dissected. If the finger now be sunk in, just behind the horn of the os hyoides, or at the top of the thyroid horn, it will touch the artery, but not bare, for it is still covered by a thin expansion of fascia, which connects it to the horn. This is to be raised by the forceps, and divided. The artery is then exposed, and may be drawn forward by a blunt needle. It is sometimes, in a manner, covered by its corresponding vein, but is generally a little higher at this spot. It may, however, be covered by the facial vein, or the trunk, in which it ends, and contri- butes to form. The thyroid nerve, coming off from the lingual, often lies, if not actually on the artery, at least along its upper margin, and passes with it under the muscles. We should therefore insulate the artery. In this operation, the skin, margin of the mastoid muscle, and carotid artery, may be gently drawn back by a blunt hook or curved spatula, whilst the horn and posterior margin of the cartilage are drawn forward, and a little outward, by another hook; but this must be lightly done, else the breathing is alfected. Immediately above the thyroid, the carotid usually gives off, just at the horn of the os hyoides, an artery, which turns over the lingual nerve and descends on the neck, supply- ing, in particular, the mastoid muscle. It has been named the mastoidea. Ihe next branch is large, and arises usually a very little above the horn of the os hyoides. ‘Its origin, is sometimes more than half an inch above the bifurcation, but generally It IS about a quarter. I have seen it arise below the thyroid,