i^ippcr iTitir^inj or pillurj oF tl)C tonclonj £incl divide it upwards. If it be higher, we, on the finger, carry the director through the stricture, and divide directly upward, to a suflBcient extent to enable us to reduce the bowel, but not more. We may, in common hernia, divide outward, also, for the epigastric artery is safe in either way; but, as Sir Astley Cooper observes, it is better to keep to a general rule, provided that be safe in all cases, without special exceptions. The parts cut here will be the margin of the internal oblique muscle, and the transversalis, or its tendon, and the fascia. Unless the hernia be very oblique, or the inferior aperture tight, it is not necessary to cut much, if any, of the tendon of the external oblique. The general rule is, to divide, so as to allow the finger to enter the abdominal cavity, by the side of the protruded parts. A very free incision renders the reduction more difficult, as one fold slips out as another goes in. From the view just taken, it may be asked, why not confine the external and deeper incisions to a very small space—viz., from above the inferior aperture to the seat of the stricture ? I believe that this would often be sufficient, and cause less hazard of inflammation. If we wish to cut the stricture exterior to ihe sac, sup- posing the neck of that to be not permanently contracted, we make no larger an incision than is just sufficient to expose the spot. We cut the integuments above the inferior aperture, or ring, to the extent of fully an inch, enlarging the wound afterwards, if necessary. We next divide the tendon of the external oblique, but not the ring. A thick, smooth probe is to be carried down from this, into the ring, which ascer- tains its degree of tightness. If it pass freely, and especially if, by pressing gently forward the margin of the ring, we raise it readily from the face of the sac, and make no im- pression on the tumour by pressing, we conclude that the obstacle is higher. We withdraw the probe, and expose the margin of the internal oblique and transversalis, and gently with a blunt hook, draw them up, or if necessary, divide a little of them upward. Next, we press, with two fingers, the sac gently downward, so as to elongate a little its neck, and remove