172 aiterial branch may be expected. Smaller tumours, whether solitary or concatenated, ifsuperficial, maybe either steatomous, oi the lymphatic glands enlarged and altered. Their excision is not difficult, l^ncysted tumours are frequently met with, and it is safer to cut them out than to attempt the cure by seton or puncture. I have known induration left, after an apparent cure of the cyst, which must have been dangerous in after-life. The superficial glands often swell in scrofulous children, and are seldom extirpated; but in adults they may also swell. If very numerous, we would naturally confine ourselves to general or constitutional treatment. But if solitary, or there were no more than two or three, and these shewed no tendency to suppurate, but rather to increase, I believe that extirpation, along with constitutional treatment, will be the best practice, and their removal is the more necessary, if the patient have arrived at middle age. But tumours, evidently superficial at first, may spread deeper, or the deep-seated glands may be originally affected. I think most troublesome and dangerous tumours begin in the upper third of the neck, and whatever may be their progress upward or backward, they seldom fail to increase downward, probably by irritating the glandulae concatenatae; or, one of these glands may become diseased, and draw in the rest. If w'e turn off the mastoid muscle, we observe a firm fascia, which we can trace from the jaw downward, and from the median line of the neck backward, over the sterno-hyoideus, and the carotid artery, and the jugular vein, and cervical nerves. Two chains of glands lie under this, one on each side of the vein, but generally the largest is behind both the vein and the par vagum. These glands, however, are not always alike dis- tinct, nor confined to a straight line, for they are met w'ith on the surface of the carotid artery, or between it and the larynx and trachea. It is rare to meet with glands behind the artery in the healthy state, but they may extend under it when they swell. When they do exist, in the natural state, they are met with most frequently at the upper, and under the middle part, of the artery. So far as my observation