341 lion of fascia from the brachieus, that a semicircle is there formed. Thus, the tendon, at its implantation, is almost surrounded by a band, partly muscular, and partly fascial, connected with the insertion of the brachieus, the oblique lio-ament, and flexor sublimis. Behind the tendon, between it and the neck of the radius, is a bursa which may swell and push forward the tendon, or produce a fulness at the front of the joint. Complete pronation, only stretches, or draws down, the tendon to the extent of scarcely half an inch. If the apon- eurotic expansion from the tendon, or even its deeper connexions be relaxed, or torn, the tendon is apt to start up a little in flexion. But this may happen to a certain extent, from mere contraction of the muscle, consequent to inflam- mation, productive of rigidity of the joint. Cutting the expansion, allows the pronator to fall a little inward. On cutting across, and turning down the biceps, and removing the vessels and median nerve, we expose, in so far, the brachieus, for part, at the inside, is still covered by the pronator, which, indeed, is bound to it by strong fascial fibres, running from the brachieus, downward and inward. On its outside, it is bound also, by fascia, to the supinator longus. The muscle, for about two inches above the bend, is glistening, being covered with tendinous or strong aponeurotic fibres, but not all the way across, for under the biceps tendon, the surface is fleshy; more inward, the tendinous fibres are thinner. We find the tendon implanted into the root of the coronoid process, and, obliquely, down the rough portion, of the top of the shaft, and also extending, though more thinly, up all the inner margin of the process. To see this, requires some displacement of the muscles at the sides. A part of the brachieus, also turns down, over the side of the inner trochlear surface of the humerus, and is bound to the front of the condyle, by aponeurotic fibres running upward and inward. On separating and turning out the supinator longus, which is connected to the glistening margin of the brachieus, we expose a deeper fleshy portion of that muscle, about hall an inch broad, lying partly on the condyle, and partly