S90 and radial nerves, and partly by the external cutaneous. The median, sends off‘, near the wrist, a small branch, called the palmar, which runs by the radial side of the wrist, then, gets more forward, and passes on the carpal ligament, along with the tendon of the palmaris. On this it divides, one branch goes over the ligament, but is soon lost; another goes deeper under it to the muscles of the thumb, particularly the flexor brevis. If either of the arteries be wounded at the wrist, the ends must be tied in the wound already made, or we must enlarge it upward in the direction formerly described. Should the wound be situated on the carpal ligament, it is to be remem- bered that the ulnar artery is there covered by a firm fibrous expansion. If the wound be at the side of the wrist, out- wardly, the radial artery may be injured when it has turned round. It is exposed, there, behind the trapezium and tendon- of the exterior internodii, just above the end of the metacarpal bone, covered by fascia, which must be freely divided. If, however, the wound be not considerable, it may be easier tu tie the artery on the face of the wrist, than to enlarge the wound, and seek for it so deep. In wounds or injuries of the palm, it is always difiScult, and often impossible, even by enlarging the wound, to tie the divided arteries securely or safely. It is much better to tie the ulnar artery at the wrist, which commands the superficial arch, except in so far as that is supplied by the communicating branch, and pressure may generally be safely made to such an extent as controls that. It is only in wounds at the radial third of the hand, or going deep into the palm, that the radial artery requires to be tied. An injury of the magna pollicis, at the ball of the thumb, is generally best managed by tying the artery at the wrist. If spasms or other bad symptoms follow puncture of a nerve, the minute description given, will point out the nerve injured, and the best way of dividing it. The thumb may be amputated, at the articulation with the trapezium, without touching the trunk of the radial artery, if we do not cut beyond the joint. If we remove a finger, along with the metacarpal bone, both arterial arches, as well