recent state, is shut up by firm fibrous substance, through which certain nerves pass. Just to the inside of this, is the optic foramen, whilst, obliquely before it, on the lower part, is the spheno-maxillary fissure, also shut up by fibrous substance. These openings are so situated, that an in- strument, directed straight along the inner wall of the oi'bit, would pass ^nto the cranium, by the sphenoidal fissure, and either wound, or miss the carotid artery, according to the obliquity of its direction. Run in, from a little below the inner canthus, close on the floor, and directed downward and outward, it would pass out by the spheno- maxillary fissure; and it would enter the orbit, by that fissure, if run straight forward, from the root of the zygoma. If it entered near the nasal process of the maxillary bone, and were directed toward the median line, it would pierce the os unguis or ethmoid bone, and enter the nose. If it went through the os unguis, and were directed upward and me- dian, it might enter the cranium, through the cribriform plate. The orbit is lined with firm periosteum, and, a pretty strong fibrous membrane goes off from its margin, forming the broad ligament of the tarsus. At the outer canthus, a dupli- cation of this, extends, for at least a quarter of an inch, back into the socket, forming the lateral ligament of the eyelid. At the internal canthus, the tendon of the orbicular muscle supplies the place of this. We cannot get into the cavity of the orbit, without either cutting through the membrane attaching the eyelid, all round, to its margin, or cutting the angle of reflection of the conjunctiva, within the eyelid. In either way, we come to a considerable quantity of fat and cellular substance, which lies between the socket and the muscles. Some are also found between the muscles and the optic nerve, and back of the eyeball. The Lachrymal gland, lies above the lateral ligament, in the hollow of the orbitar process of the frontal bone, just, in a line backward, from that ridge of the bone, which bounds the origin of the temporal muscle. It comes forward, to within one’ quarter of an inch, of the edge of the orbit, or sometimes almost to the very edge, and winds obliquely