241 be greatly opened, and brought forward, the cartilage, from its shape, may act as a wedge, fixing the jaw, and becoming, itself, fixed for a time. This cartilage, adds to the security of the joint, which is farther defended, before, by the fibres of the temporal muscle, which I have described as rising from the outer half, of the front, of the articulating cavity, and run- ning downward and forward. These, 1 apprehend, must be torn before dislocation can take place. In dislocation, the head of the bone is carried more under the masseter, for, naturally, it is not quite covered by it. The anterior part of that muscle, unless the jaw be greatly opened, is rather slackened; the posterior fibres, at the upper part, are stretched, if not torn; the under part is little affected. The pterygoideus internus, is rendered more perpendicular, though very little. The portion of the temporal muscle, in front of the articulation, must be torn, or greatly stretched. The changes on the rest of the muscle, and pterygoideus ex- ternus, are too evident to require description. The chief resistance in reduction, is from the posterior and middle por- tion of the temporal, and the upper and back part of the masseter. But even the anterior portion of the temporal, and pterygoideus externus, may afford resistance, from being irritated, for it does not follow, that because a muscle may be somewhat shortened, it must necessarily be relaxed. The Buccinator, is the sheet over which the other, compa- ratively, loose and radiating muscles extend. This arises from the root of the alveolar process, of each jaw, from as far forward, as the first grinder, to the pterygo-maxillary liga- ment, which passes, perhaps, a quarter of an inch behind the last grinder. It also arises from this ligament, and runs then forward, to be connected with the orbicularis oris,&c. It must, at the back part, where it is continuous with the constrictor superior, be within the temporal muscle, and I have describ- ed a band going from that muscle to it, and, also, a thin fascia connecting it to the edge, or margin, of the coronoid pro- cess, whilst, betw'een it and the margin of the masseter, are fat and cellular substance. I have formerly noticed the relation of the parotid duct to it.