500 The patella may be fractured transversely or perpendicularly, or in three or more pieces. It is most frequently transverse. 1 he limb cannot be extended if there be laceration of the fibrous covering and of the capsule, neither can the patient support himself, as the knee is apt to bend under him. There is a depres- sion, more or less, at the knee pan, and if the separation be considerable, the skin can be pressed, there, down into the joint. If the fibrous capsule or tendons of the vasti and crureus be quite entii'e, the bone alone being broken, there is very little separation, and the hollow is scarcely to be discovered. The outer surface or margin of the broken patella is turned for- ward, so that the internal edge is less separated than the external. If the capsule, &c., be extensively torn, the two por- tions are separated in proportion to the degree of laceration, sometimes even for some inches, or, if one side be more torn than the other, the bone is drawn up obliquely. Crepitation is seldom perceived, and only if the bones can be brought into perfect contact. The pain at first is slight, if the soft parts have not been much bruised; and, if there have been little laceration, the symptoms may continue mild. The synovial membrane lining the patella must always be injured, and if the laceration be more extensive, inflammation takes place. Both blood and synovia are effused under the skin, and smart fever may come on. In every instance, the leg is to be kept extended, so as to prevent increase of separation. If the injury be comparatively slight, we may at once press the broken portions together, and retain them by compress, and the usual bandage, applying also a splint behind to prevent flexion. This in such cases lessens the risk of synovation. But if inflammation come on, or if the part from the first be swollen and tender, no pressure can be safe. The limb is kept extended, and leeches are to be freely ap- plied, after which we use either tepid fomentations, or cold water as may be most comfortable. Afterwards, we apply the bandage, and take care to see that^it is always correct and efficient. Passive motion should not be commenced for five weeks, and when the patient begins to walk, a support- ing bandage should still be used for some weeks. From tlie