272 01105 given off just before the thyroid5 consisting of the verte- bral and mammaria interna; another, after the artery enters behind the scalenus, consisting of the cervicalis profunda, and superior intercostal. Sometimes, the posterior scapular comes off from the subclavian, just as it issues from the scalenus. The subclavian itself, as it issues from between the scaleni, requires much consideration, both in its situation and rela- tions. If the subject be placed on the back, and we drop a line, perpendicularly, from the upper surface of the clavicle, to the outer margin of the scalenus, where the artery issues, this will be found to be, from an inch and a quarter, to an inch and three quarters, from the sterno-clavicular articula- tion, the variation depending, partly, on the size of the adult bones, partly, on the breadth of the muscle. The usual dis- tance, in adults, of either sex, is an inch and five-eighths. The height.of the upper margin of the artery, relative to that of the clavicle, also varies. The range is from a quarter of an inch below it, to five-eighths above it. The number of instances below, is small; in many, it is level, but in most, it is above, and of these, the usual height is three-eighths. As the artery passes on the rib obliquely, its upper margin is not, necessarily, the full diameter of the vessel higher than the lower one. Behind the scalenus, the artery is sometimes higher than at its exit. It enters variably. Sometimes, it rises considerably above the clavicle, iir some instances nearly an inch. Then, it gets behind the muscle and bends downward. Generally, it enters very little above the clavicle, or nearly about the same height at which it issues, running almost horizontally. The length of the artery, in this course, depends on the breadth of the scalenus anticus, which, at the rib, is so related to the posticus, that although the artery is said to pass be- tween them, yet, it scarcely rests on the latter, lying from its origin, to the rib, on the pleura costalis, with the intervention of the fibrous fascia, which covers that there, and the sympa- thetic nerve, and on the right side, the recurrent. It issues between the anticus and rib, or is merely skirted as it were, behind, by the posticus, or rests on part of its thin tendin- ous extremity. Its depth here, like its height, is not uniformly