498 and, probably, the implantation of the rectus into the patella, or the ligament of that bone. One or both of the crucial ligaments must generally be torn. If we remove every thing but the ligaments, and attempt to press the tibia back, the postei’ior resists the anterior. If we cut the posterior, the tibia can be pushed back very considerably, and if the ante- rior be lax, complete luxation may be produced. No disloca- tion can be produced, in the dead subject, without cutting the ligaments of every description, with the exception of the patellar. The leg in this luxation is shortened, the condyle projects, the ham is full, and the leg is straight, or thrown forward. But it is evident that the position in this respect, must be modified by that of the leg at the time, and also by the extent of laceration. The tibia does not go up along the back of the shaft, but only to the intercondyloid space, between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The patella is drawn back if its ligament be not torn. The reduction is accomplished by direct extension, and then pressing the bones into their place. Should this not succeed, the exten- sion should be made forward, so as to draw the tibia over the projection of the condyle, then the leg is made straight, and the bones, at the instant, pressed in opposite directions. The foot should be extended. Much care must be paid afterwards to keep down inflammation, and no attempt at motion should be made so long as there is acute pain, or as it causes pain. It has been considered that anchylosis was the natural cure, and therefore that strict rest should be enjoined to favour that. But amongst other cases, that of Mr. Luland, recorded by Sir Astley Cooper, proves that anchylosis is not necessary. He recovered the use of the joint completely in five months. Dislocation forward is more difficult. The same parts, as in the former case, are torn, with the exception of the patellar lifTament or tendon of the rectus, which is not necessarily O injured. The origin of the gastrocnemius muscle is more apt to be torn. The tibia is elevated in front, there is a hollow above it, and the condyles project into the ham. The leg is thrown forward. Reduction is accomplished by ex-