137 the groove of the atlas, by the inside of the vertebral artery, and appears on the front of the transverse process, just by the inside of the artery. It is so connected with it, and so related to the groove, that it appears to rise up out of the hole, in the transverse process, and then to bend down over the face of the process, between the rectus lateralis, and rectus minor, where it is readily found by separating these muscles. It sends branches up along these muscles to the base of the skull; but the largest branch turns down between them, and joins one coming up from the first cervical nerve, so as to form a continued arch between the two, and which would be said to rise either fi'om the one or other nerve, accordingly, as we begin to trace it. Thus, both the anterior and posterior branches communicate with the first cervical; the anterior bi-anch or arch, is bounded by the outer margin of the inter- nal carotid, and covered by the jugular vein. The suboccipital nerve is one of some importance. When the texture of the medulla is affected, or either glairy or serous fluid is effused in children, so as to act on the nerve, we find that the muscles, around the foramen magnum, become some- times paralyzed, and the head falls in every direction. If death do not soon take place, the articulation is at last much relaxed, and even such a change, in the position of the processus dentatus, may take place, as shall prove fatal. There can, however, scarcely be disease so limited, as to act merely on this nerve; and, therefore, not only more muscu- lar nerves are impaired, but others also arising from the vicinity. In some adults, we find the power of sustaining the head quite lost, but then other cervical nerves are also affected; the head sinks forward, and respiration is carried on with a hissing sound, and the whole body is feeble. If this arise from induration of the substance of the medulhi, nothing can cure It; but if from the mere state of the vessels, caustic issues have recovered the patient. The first cervical nerve comes out far back, but not so far as the suboccipital. It issues obliquely downward and backward behind the transverse process of the atlas, near the spine of the dentatii; it immediately divides into two branches. The ante-