174 so near tlie clavicle as to prevent us from exposing, if neces- sary, the carotid, nor so high as to be impacted at the jaw, we ought to begin by freely exposing the actual surface of the tumour secundum artem. If the mastoid muscle, or sternal muscles, pass over it, these must be divided, if they cannot be readily turned aside. It is a good rule neither to cut any muscle unnecessarily, nor to spare any which bridles the tumour, and would interfere with its dissection. Attention to the origin, or insertion of the exposed muscles, or to their course, if not perverted, will be of use in ascertaining the relations of the tumour. Venous, and even arterial haemorrhage, in this stage, may be repressed by the finger. The tumour being exposed, we next find its margin, and setting it free there from any remaining covering of fascia, we begin to detach it at the spot where it seems most loose, and, at the same time, which is most distant from important parts. We proceed to raise the tumour, and detach it, partly by pulling, partly by the finger, or handle of the scalpel, and partly by touches with the blade, making it a general rule to get, as early as we can, to the under margin, where the artery and veins are; and I would advise the artery to be exposed, whei-e it is entering the tumour, so as to decide whether we may safely prosecute the dissection upward, and detach the tumour from the vessels, without wounding them, or shall require, from the intimate con- nexion of parts, to tie the artery before we proceed farther. Even in that case we should not rashly detach the tumour, but endeavour to save the nerves and veins. We should use the knife as little as possible, but rather the finger, or a blunt instrument; and if we come to any firm band, we divide that, and then resume our work. Towards the front, we must avoid the thyroid gland, if it be not involved, as it bleeds much. The thyi-oid arteries may possibly be also avoided, and we must take care of the recurrent nerve. If the jugular vein be divided, it will require to be tied above the tumour; and if the carotid cannot be saved, it will also require a ligature above. The division of the nerves, on one side of the neck, is not fatal, so far as experiments on quadrupeds can be relied on; but we have no proof that it would be safe in man.