421 nearly in a direct line up from its side. It runs parallel to the vas deferens, but about seven-eighths of an inch farther out, and .with the vesicula interposed. Its termination in the bladder is covered by the margin of the vesicula. The vesiculae are bound down, or fixed, by the vesical fascia: They are about two inches long, and, at the broadest part, which is the middle, they are from five to seven-eighths of an inch broad. They are close by the outside of the vasa, and their extremities are two inches and a half distant, for they divaricate. At the gland they approach, but have the vasa deferentia interposed, so that they do not meet. Veins lie to their outside, sweeping down, not exactly by the. side, but a little more toward, sometimes the back, sometimes the front of the gland The vas deferens, which is, at first, nearly round, meets the bladder, when distended, about the middle. As it proceeds along the inner margin of the vesicula, it becomes three-eighths of an inch broad; and the two meet at the vesical end of the gland, within the angle of the vesiculae. At two inches above, or behind, the gland, the distance between the two vasa is an inch and three-quarters.' If we keep close by the median line, we may puncture the bladder from the rectum, at any point, three-quarters of an inch above the gland, so far as the vasa are concerned. At this point, they are three-eighths of an inch separate. Imme- diately above that, they are half an inch separate. We are scarcely safe half an inch above the gland, for, at that part, the vasa are only a quarter of an inch distant. We wish to perforate under the reflection of the peritonaeum and fascia, and, therefore, do not introduce the trocar higher than is necessary to avoid the vasa, say rather less than an inch above the gland. On dividing the levator, we feel not only the mem- branous portion of the urethra and the prostate gland, but, especially if the bladder be distended, we, by carrying the finger, or using the knife, a little farther upward and backward, expose, and may wound, the vesiculae—a fact to be attended to in performing lithotomy. If we make a lateral section of the pelvis, and distend the