160 posterior margin of this, appearing to come at first from its inner surface, we find this branch as large as a sew- ing thread, running to the pharynx, where it is distributed both as an independent nerve, and also intermixes with the pharyngeal plexus. Its distribution is most evident about the stylo-pharyngeus. The lingual division, or continuation of the trunk, goes a little way downward with the stylo-pharyn- geus, and then forward and inward to the side of the tongue, near the anterior pillar of the fauces. It enters the tongue and ramifies in it, but we cannot trace it forward as a distinct nerve. The glosso-pharyngeus partly traverses the region of the tonsil, and may be affected by swelling or inflammation of that gland. It appears to be a muscular nerve, and con- nects the action of the tongue and pharynx. The eighth gives off veiy high, the superior laryngeal nerve, but this remains in contact with the trunk, sometimes even so low as opposite the hyo-thyroid space. It crosses obliquely under the two carotids, near the bifurcation, and over the superior ganglion, to reach that space. A little higher than the horn of the thyroid cartilage, it gives off a pretty large branch, called the external, which unites with twigs sent forward from the ganglion, and goes to the lower pharyngeal plexus, the constrictors, the thyroid gland, and the muscles covering the laryngeal cartilages. The trunk of the nerve, or internal division, goes on to the hyo-thyroid membrane, under which it passes. It first reaches the horn of the thyroid cartilage, along with the laryngeal artery, which crosses the trunk of the thyroid vein at the thyroid horn. It next runs a little downward and then forward near the carti- lage, accompanied by its corresponding vein, which runs at first a little higher than the artery, and rather to its inside, though sometimes more external. The nerve is at first obliquely before, but as it proceeds, it is situated higher than the artery, nearly on a line with the top of the horn, lower than the cor- responding vein. In a few cases the nerve has been found lower than the artery. A smaller nerve, not always distinct, comes off from the superior ganglion, and passes on above the vein. Both the nerve and artery are under the membrane;