449 salis, or carry both before it, as a covering, or the former may separate, and the latter remain entire. In most cases, the fascia transversalis is entire, and protruded by the sac. There is a difference of the covering of the sac in this species. It is covered by the fascia propria, but not by the cremaster, for that muscle accompanies the cord, which is covered by the sac, or lies to its outer side. It is covered, generally, by the fascia tranversalis. The course of the hernia is almost directly downward, or, if traced to its point of appearing, the obliquity, if any, at the neck, is toward the navel. The situation of the tumour is nearer the pubis, or closer by the side of the penis. The most important point of difference, however, is, that, in this species, the epigastric artery is to the ilial side of the neck of the sac, as it does not issue by the natural aperture, but nearer the pubis. The steps of the operation are similar to those described, whether we open the sac or do not. But we must recollect, that, exterior to the sac, we shall most likely find a layer of fascia, or of the conjoined tendon and fascia; and, on dividing this, we some- times find a pretty thick layer of fatty substance, which must be cleaned away, or divided, before the sac be exposed. Next, we must recollect the different relation of the epigastric artery, which is divided if we cut outward, but safe if we adhere to the general rule of cutting upward. If we do not divide the sac, the artery might perchance escape, even if we cut outward, for the director might go exterior to it, as well as to the peritonaeum. Sometimes the opening of the peritonaeal process, which accompanies the cord, and envelops the testicle, does not close at the superior aperture of the canal, and hernia may take place into the tunica vaginalis, which is then the only herniary sac, and contains also the testicle, in common with the intestine. This is called hernia congenita, and is distin- guished, not merely by its existing from birth, though that is not always the case, but by the testicle being so involved in the contents, that it cannot in general be felt, so long as the tunica vaginalis remains filled. In this hernia, an incision to the bottom of the tunica not only renders it difficult to II. 2 G