199 implanted, nearly, on a line with the side of the epiglottis, whilst the anterior pillar, is connected to the side of the tongue, near- ly, an inch and a quarter farther forward. The breadth of the tonsrue, here, is about two inches, but it becomes rather nar- rower, as it proceeds to the point, which is rounded in its shape. The frenum,is first connected to the tongue, fully an inch from the tip, and all that portion isfree, audits under surface covered with mucous membrane, whilst, further back, we see less and less of that surface, as we proceed toward the insertion of the pillar. The thickness at the frenum, is five-eighths of an inch, but toward the sides it becomes thinner. Farther back, it is thicker, but at the os hyoides it is usually very thin. When the mouth is shut, and the tongue quiescent, its upper surface, nearly opposite the front of the last grinder, becomes level with the teeth of the lower jaw. Then it rises a little higher, whilst the tip is generally turned down, within the front teeth of the lower jaw, and the portion immediately behind that, is pressed against the foi’e part of the palate, or inside of the gum of the upper jaw. A wire therefore cannot be stretched across, firom the teeth of one side of the jaw, to those of the other, without galling the tongue. At the sides, the smooth under surface of the tongue, rests on the gum of the lower jaw, whilst the slopping margin, of the upper surface, is in contact with the teeth. Hence, the effect of a jagged pointof a tooth, as a perpetual irritation, producing and keeping up a sore, and hence, also, the scolloped appearance of the side of the tongue, when by any cause it is swelled. lo examine the structure of the tongue, we may first divide it into a right and a left side, by separating the genio-hyo- glossi muscles from each other. Doing this, we find, that from the front of the os hyoides, there is sent forward, a slip of firm cellular, or sometimes almost fibrous substance, which becomes less distinct as it proceeds onward. In some ani- mals, we have a long bony process in place of this septum, which, indeed, is not always very strong in the human sub- ject. There is always more or less fatty and cellular sub- stance, found between these muscles, and, if suppuration take place in this, the abscess must be deep and long confined.