454 In operating, we make an incision in the skin, like an inverted T, the superior line extending to a little above Poupart’s ligament. The flaps are to be dissected down, and, if the superficial fascia have not been thin, and turned down with them, it is next to be divided. Sometimes it is of considerable tbickness, and tbe glands involved in it are enlarged. We now come to the fascia propria, or ' crural sac, which is often mistaken for the herniary sac. It is to be freely opened, when we shall frequently find a layer of fatty substance. This being cleaned off to a suf- ficient extent, the true sac is exposed, which is to be opened in the usual way, when, often, a small quantity of fluid spouts out. The sac being slit up, the finger is to be carried in front of its contents, to the edge of the process, which is to be divided up to the ligament, on a director, or by Sir Astley Cooper’s bistoury. The neck of the sac is, at the same time, cut at its under end, just before it expands. This, if the seat of the stricture have been at the process, which will be felt to bind the sac tightly, will be suffi- cient to enable us to effect reduction; but, if it be not, we have lost nothing, for we have only taken a step pre- liminary to the next—namely, the division of the mouth of the sac, and its circumambient margin. The tightest and most efficient part of the margin, is the front, formed by the posterior border of Poupart’s ligament, which may be felt like a narrow tense band, stretched across the sac. It is not in a line up from the anterior margin, but obliquely back from it, and is aided by its covering of fascia transversalis going down into the ring. We divide it by cutting forward, either by a probe-pointed bistoury on a director, or by Sir Astley Cooper’s knife. The border alone, with a very little more of the ligament, is all that we require to divide. The anterior margin remains untouched. The round ligament is safe, neither should the cord in the male be in any danger. The posterior border, and even the floor of the channel, were that necessary, may be divided with safety, by any man who ought to operate. This incision, at one and the same time, divides the mouth of the peritonaea!, or herniary sac.