369 to tilt it forward; but if the supinator brevis be not torn, that ■will help to keep it down. The proper position, is flexion, with semipronation. In due time, we employ passive motion, to prevent stillness. Of two evils, permanent pronation, would be better than fixed supination. Fracture of the upper part of the ulna, requires much force, or a direct blow to produce it, and, therefore, is likely to be accompanied with considerable extravasation. The anconeus should tend to draw the upper part outward, but, on the other hand, this is resisted by the flexor profundus, which rises high. The brachieus tends to draw the upper part forward, but the strong fleshy origin of the pi'ofundus, helps to brace it down. If both bones be broken about three inches below the end of the olecranon, the brachieus and biceps tend to draw the upper portion forward; but the back part of the supina- tor brevis, and origin of the extensors of the thumb, in so far, counteract this. In both cases, the semibent position is the best. From this point, downward, there is, from the action of the pronator, and the obliquity of the fibres of the flexor pi'ofundus, drawing the ulna toward the radius, and of those of the flexor pollicis, drawing the radius toward the ulna, a tendency to narrow the interosseous space, bringing the broken extremities nearer each other. The fore-arm, therefore, appears rather rounder than formerly, and may also be somewhat bent. The reduction is accomplished, by making the fore-arm supine, which relaxes the extensor muscles, and also, in some degree, the interosseous ligament. It brings the two bones more on a level, whereas, in prona- tion, the radius rolls more obliquely with regard to the ulna, overhanging it. In pronation, the deep muscles, such as the profundus, and flexors of the thumb, are pressed more together in the interosseous space. The bones being reduced, it is certainly useful to press the muscles in that space, by means of a thick compress, guarded by splints, suffi- ciently broad to prevent lateral pressure by the roller. The fore-arm should be kept semiprone, or moderately supine, which is easier to the patient than complete supination. Passive motion, in due time, is to be employed. The same II. 2 B