488 have oiu’ choice, we expose it where it is most superficial, and least likely to have the operation affected by the Pro- funda. This sometimes comes off at three inches below the ligament; and, therefore, though its origin, generally, be much higher, yet we would not wish to tie the artery higher than four inches from the ligament. Referring to what has been said of the sartorius muscle, the nerves crossing the artery, and vena saphena, it will appear that we may best perform the operation by beginning our incision three inches below the ligament, or a little higher, if the thigh be short. We continue it down for from two inches and a half to three inches, according to the depth of the cellular substance. The direction is in a line from the point, where the artery issues (page 478), to the front of the inner condyle. It is perpendicular. This does not correspond exactly to the margin of the muscle, but rather to the course of the artery. If we prefer that, the line inclines a very little inward. We do not cut, at once, down to the muscle, lest we injure the vein, but we leave a thin layer of cellular substance, to be divided on retracting the lips of the incision. The vein is imbedded in the fascia, which is, here, sometimes thin, some- times very firm and strong. If we do not see the vein, we press above it, to make it distinct, should it be exposed. The fascia is to be divided on its pubal side, and at the margin of the muscle, which we are then able to draw out- ward, along with the vein and sartorian nerve, which are not to be detached, or otherwise disturbed. If we do not at once see the margin of the muscle, we detach the fascia a very little, outward or inward, or both; then we see a slight cellular line, and, pi'essing, there, with the handle of the scalpel, we make the obtuse margin more visible. We can- not go wrong if we cut no fibres; and we cannot mistake the pectineus or adductor for the sartorius, unless we have gone far out of our course, and do not attend to the different direction of the margin. One or two slight touches of the scalpel, separate the cellular connection of the inferior surface of the muscle. Sometimes, an arterial branch skirts the margin, and it may be cut; but it is not likely, if we do not