291 fully, three quarters of an inch back, from the axillary vein, and, there, divides into two branches. The smallest, continues its course along the mai’gin of the muscle, covered by its vein, to near the inferior angle of the scapula, giving branches to the subscapularis, and inside of the latissimus dorsi, and, off, to the serratus magnus, and side of the thorax, behind a division of the thoracica mammaria. It, or the posterior branch, sends a ramus upward, on the inside of the subscapu- laris, in the tract of the infra-scapular nerve, only, in a reversed course. The posterior branch, or rather the great trunk of the infra-scapular artery, winds back, over the margin of the teres minor, running along the boundary of that muscle, and the infra-spinatus. It passes back, in a space, bounded above, by the teres minor, below, by the teres major, and be- fore, by the long head of the triceps, and ramifies, extensively on the dorsum of the scapula, both above and below the spine, and close on the bone, as well as in the substance of the muscles. The branch which ramifies on the dorsum of the bone, often winds to it, not between the teretes, but be- tween the teres minor and the bone. The infra-scapular, anas- tomoses freely with the supra-scapular artery. The Circumflex artery, is often as large as the infra-scapular, and comes off from the axillary, nearly opposite to the infra- scapular; and, just to the inside of, or behind, the axillary artei'y, it plunges, almost, directly backward, between the teretes. It therefore resembles the infra-scapular in this respect, but it differs in passing at the anterior, whilst the infra-scapu- lar passes at the posterior margin, of the head of the triceps, which is therefore between them. If we separate the attach- ment of the axillary artery to the coraco-brachialis, and draw it toward the angle of the scapula, we see this branch, rising from its outer, or rather posterior margin. It passes in a space, bounded, above, by the teres minor, below, by the teres major, before, by the humerus, behind, by the anterior margin of the long head of the triceps. The circumflex nerve accompanies it, but lies nearer the angle, covered by all the other nerves, and they are both connected by a firm cellu- lar expansion. The vein lies on the face of the artery, or