144 the fascia below, the bare nerve is seen coming out off at tlie outside of the jugular vein, about mid-way between the clavicle and the jaw. When these two branches arise from a common trunk, that is hid for some time by the posterior margin of the mastoid muscle, and is seen by drawing it forward. If we have merely removed the skin, and left the platysma, except at that part where we expose the part, we shall, by pulling the trunk upward, render its branches tense, and raise the fascia in radiated lines. The two divisions divaricate. The one which runs most anteriorly, is called the Supra-clavicular nerve. It comes out from between the muscles, generally about a quarter of an inch lower than the cutaneus colli, and at a distance from the mastoid process, varying with the length of the neck. It passes down by the posterior mai'gin of the mastoid muscle, and almost immediately divides into a number of branches, sometimes very small, in other subjects, as large as coarse threads. These radiate forward on the mastoid, and backwards on the trapezius, and descend over the clavicle toward the mamma. They grow smaller about an inch and a half from the sternal end of the clavicle. Some go over both the anterior and posterior jugular veins, and even adhere to them; but within an inch and a half of the clavicle they are not so near the veins. It is quite a mistake to suppose that the jugular vein is less connected with nerves than those at the bend of the arm, for both the cutaneus medius, and supra-clavicular, pass over the veins; when the neck is long, the vein is least connected with nerves about the middle of the neck. The distribution of this neiwe may explain some cases of neuralgia, affecting both the neck and mamma, and will point out the place where applications should be made. We may perhaps discover a swelled and tender gland, either deep under the mastoid muscle, and pretty far back, or one in the course of the nerve; or we may ascertain that the parts about the third cervical vertebra are tender to the touch. Neuralgia of the breast, with feeling of burning heat, without any perceptible organic change of the gland, frequently arises from the state of the intercostal nerves, and is cured by blisters applied between the shoulders. But it may also arise from the con-