379 to its outside, %vhilst part of the flexor brevis is always seen on its ulnar side. Taking off the abductor, w'e see the thick flexor ossis metacarpi, which rises from the face of the carpal ligament, much in the same way with the former, but as a deeper layer. It lies on the face, and a little on the radial side of the metacarpal bone. The flexor brevis rises by two heads; one, on the same plane with the last muscle, sometimes not at once distinguished from it, from the lower part of the face of the carpal ligament, and partly from the inner surface of the trapezium; another, and deeper portion, rises from the trapezoides and os magnum. Between these, and overlapped by the superficial portion, runs, in a bursa, or sheath, the tendon of the flexor longus, and, by drawing out- ward this, and the superficial head, and inward the flexor tendons of the fingers, we see better the deep portion, part of which, indeed, is visible without doing so, on the plane of the adductor pollicis. This is traced deep from the ulnar border of the metacarpal bone of the mid-finger, into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Though deep in its site, compared to some of the others, yet, it is uncovered by any, from the border of the web between the thumb and fore- finger, for half an inch, up to the margin of the flexor brevis. The posterior muscular layer of the web is seen by turning the hand. It consists of the abductor indicis, which rises by tw’o heads; the outermost, and largest, from the ulnar margin of the os metacarpi pollicis; the other, from that of the fore-finger itself, leaving between them an ii'regular opening for the radial artery. These two muscles, to a cer- tain extent, decussate each other, so that the margin of the w'eb, or fold, is formed near the fore-finger, by the abduc- tor indicis, near the thumb, by the adductor pollicis. The ulnar border of the hand is formed by the abductor minimi digiti, rising from the pisiform bone, carpal liga- ment, and implantation of the flexor ulnaris. Then, in front, looking somewhat like a radial fasciculus of the former, w’e have the flexor rising from the ligament and unciform bone. This, at its origin, forms, at the margin of the carpal ligament, an angle with the flexor brevis pollicis, the two