67 clavian arteries j but it is so connected With these parts or their slieatlis, that, strictly, no opening exists; not even a pin point can, without rupturing a defence, touch the pleura or lung. When the covering I have described, cannot be traced from the spine, it is supplied by a layer from the deep cervical fascia. If this be altogether deficient, or be ruptured, then liernia of the lung may take place. Tliis may be produced by hooping-cough, or other means of compressing the thoracic contents. In a case lately brought to me for consultation, the hernia was complicated with an enlarged gland. The lung could be reduced, but whenever pressure was removed, or the child moved or cried, the tumour reappeared, and bolted up as high as the tliyroid cartilage. It produced some diffi- cidty of breathing. There was no pulsation communicated to the tumour. In such a case, it would be proper, first, to attempt to remove the disease of the gland, and diminish its swelling, and afterwards, by a mechanical contrivance, to endeavour to keep the lung in its place, in hopes that the passage might be obliterated. In a casual dissection, I found an indurated por- tion of lung, three quarters of an inch broad, extending up behind the carotid artery, for an inch and a half along its trunk. Water, also, not unfrequently, in cases of hydro- thorax, pushes the pleura up along the trachea, or outward along the course of the subclavian artery to the axilla. In a case of this kind, where, on account of exostosis of the arm, it was proposed to amputate at the shoulder-joint, the pleura should, in all probability, have been wounded, had the opera- tion been performed. In such extension of the pleura, there may be pulsation, owing to communicated motion, but this, by no means, necessarily takes places. If the fascial covering at the rib, here, be thin, we often find, that where air is disen- gaged after death, the pleura is forced up for an inch or more along the side of the trachea. The first branch given off from the arch of the aorta is the innominata, a large artery, which varies in length from rather less than an inch, to an inch and a half. It is rarely longer, and usually it is not much shorter. The aorta reaches to