2(H partly projecting from the surface, and partly sinking into the substance of the tongue, or it rises like a flattened tubercle, or forms a fungiform excrescence, or pretty deep chops form, or ulceration takes place, sometimes only inconvenient, but often malignant and fatal. It is not my intention to enter into the consideration of those different states and diseases, which have been treated of in detached memoirs or monographs. I only here remark, First, they may arise from a state produced, and kept up, by the condition of the alimentary canal. Hence, the early and persevering use of laxatives, bitters, chalybeates, sarsaparilla, with, or without iodine; small doses of mercury, but not to the extent of affecting the mouth, when the hepatic apparatus is in fault, regulation of the diet, followed by different washes or local applications, may do good. Arsenic, externally, and internally has, in some instances, done good, and if the sore be not malignant, but seated on indurated corium, nitrate of silver is a useful application. Second, they may depend on cere- bral disease, either primary, or induced by the stomach, affecting the nerves of the tongue, and requiring strict inves- tigation, and the use of suitable remedies. Third, they may be connected with constitutional disease, such as syphilis, per- haps scrophula. Fourth, if they resist the use of those reme- dies, which are indicated for the removal of the supposed cause, and assume, or at first possessed a malignant character, the diseased part, must, if it can be removed, be early extir- pated. If it cannot be perfectly destroyed by the knife, fol- lowed perhaps by cautery, we must be satisfied with palliation, for, if the removal be not perfect and effectual, the state of the patient is rendered incomparably worse. If the disease be troublesome, rather than dangerous, the operation is optional. Some of these excrescences, tumours, or even ulcerated surfaces, may be easily and safely removed, by slicing off, completely, the diseased substance from the surface of the tongue. In doing this, no large vessel is likely to be divided, for the trunk of the lingual artery is deep. The tissue, how- ever, is lax, and blood will flow as if from a sponge. It may