177 out. The external jugular veins will be more or less inter- ested in the primary stage of the operation, and in the detachment of the tumour from the subjacent parts, we have not only to attend to the great vessels and nerves, but to the deep veins, and the transversalis colli artery, or the supra scapular; and, if we come far forward, to the carotid itself, and the ver- tebral, as well as the thyroid. The distribution of the vessels here is irregular, as has been described at page 117; but in explaining the relations of a tumour, I shall take them, as they are often found, referring to that page, et seq. for varieties. On the right side, any tumour under the sterno-mastoid muscle, near the articulation, may interest both the jugular vein and subclavian artery. That artery, from its origin to the inner margin of the scalenus, is from half, to three quarters of an inch long, and the greatest point of elevation, of its upper margin, is a quarter of an inch, above the surface of the cla- vicle. It is covered by the internal jugular vein, which also extends more or less over the scalenus, according to its diame- ter, whilst the vertebral vein descends behind it. It is con- nected in the following way with important nerves. At, or very near, the angle, or bifurcation, is the cardiac branch of the eighth pair, and, often, the great cardiac of the sympathetic, separately or conjoined. Close by it, to the outside, is the recurrent, if it be distinctly separated already from the trunk; then, beyond it, the trunk of the eighth; all nearly in contact. Then, perhaps, a quarter of an inch farther out, is that sympa- thetic branch, which, like a hook, turns back to the plexus, or portion of the sympathetic nerve, behind the artery, no part almost of which is therefore free, on its front, of important nerves, whilst more or less of the sympathetic is also behind. Lastly, by the inner margin of the scalenus, we have the phrenic nerve, which descends just by the outer margin of the thyroid axis, or partly covered by it, whilst the eighth goes down by the inner margin of the axis. Independent, then, of all hazard from wounding the artery, or the vein which covers it, or the carotid artery which mounts up from the articulation, it is evident that the removal of a deep tumour here must be most dangerous; and as for tying this portion of