472 1 have already noticed the situation of fracture exterior to tlie capsule, and it is evident, that, although the muscles implanted about the trochanter shall generally be entire, yet they may be more or less lacerated. The gluteus medius, and minimus, and pyriformis, must remain attached to the shaft, being inserted into the trochanter: and the anterior portion of the two first is raised on the top of the trochanter, and stretched more in proportion as that is carried backward. The tensor, from its connection with the first, may also be carried upward, and a little backward, or it may be stretched by blood extravasated under the fascia. The gemelli and obturatores are likely to remain attached to the fossa, if they be not lacerated. In that case, they and the quadratus are stretched more than the pyriformis, and resist the elevation of the shaft. So does the upper part of the adductor magnus, which is altered in its direction, going, in considerable degrees of elevation, more upward than down- ward. The iliacus and psoas are not much stretched, unless the trochanter minor be carried backward as well as upward. They are attached to the fore, as the gluteus minimus is to tire back part of the capsule, and brace it. The trochanter minor may be involved in the fracture, so as to prevent their acting at all on the shaft. Pain is frequently felt in this situation. The fibrous continuation of the capsule, at the root of the trochanter also resists elevation, if not quite torn. The broad surface of the fracture is also a means of preventing great elevation. The whole glutei muscles tend to draw the shaft upward and backward. All the muscles rising from the pelvis, externally, and going to the thigh, contribute to this. The small rotators draw backward. Most of these remarks, so far as the muscles are con- cerned, apply to intra-capsular fractures. But there is this difference, that the fractured surface is not so broad, and the head still more easily rolled, so that the levators can act with less opposition. Fracture of the cervix is marked by more or less shorten- ing of the limb, eversion of the toes, the trochanter is less prominent and higher, flexion is painful, especially if made