237 ered both as an orbicular muscle, capable of moving itself, and also, as a point of fixture, for other muscles, arising from bone, and intended to draw it in different directions. The orbicularis palpebrarum surrounds the orbit, as well as the eyelids. It arises from the tendo oculi, or tendon of the orbicularis, wdiich is a tendinous line, passing from the nasal process of the maxillary bone, to the tarsi, and, there, forking, to be lost in them; it also rises from the angular process of the frontal bone. It sweeps up on the forehead, above the orbit, covering, and intermixing with, the occipito-frontalis, passes round, over the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle, and down on the cheek over the origin of the zygomaticus. The .sheet extends often for an inch beyond the orbit, and the fibres are thin on the eyelids, but more fleshy beyond these. The occipito-frontalis, if traced downward, may be said to be inserted into the orbicularis, and the cellular substance, at the inside of the eyebrow, and root of the nose. The orbicularis is narrow at the inner canthus, and, therefore, the occipito- frontalis can be traced bare farther down, and a slip runs down the nose; more outward, it can be traced to the super- ciliary ridge, but is blended on the outer surface with the orbicularis, and I shall presently mention its relation to the temporal muscle, &c. Both of these, again, cover the corrugator supercilii, which is not seen arising from the root of the angular process of the frontal bone, till they be cut or raised. It sweeps out- ward, along the eyebrows, blending with them there, so that these three muscles are connected. The occipito-frontalis raises the skin and eyebrow, it is a levator, whilst the other two, are depressors and wrinkle it. The third orbicularis muscle, is that of the mouth. It is thin, half an inch broad, and consists of an upper and under sheet, corresponding to the two lips, meeting, or decussating, at the angles of the mouth, so as to form a kind of oval muscle. The portion in the upper lip, is the broadest, and is farther, both strengthened and enlarged by fibres, winding outward from the septum of the nose, to the angle of the mouth.