278 the proposal of tying the artery, before it enter behind the scalenus on the right side, it is, though difficult, doubtless practicable, if we look to the mere application of the ligature, but, it is quite inconsistent with safety. On dividing the sterno-mastoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, at the extremity of the clavicle, we expose the internal jugular vein. On drawing this aside, with a thyroid vein which often bounds its inner margin, we come to a fascia covering the artery, though sometimes the vertebral vein presents, instead of be- ing behind the artery. The relation of the nerves is noticed formerly, and even in the dead subject, a ligature cannot be passed without disturbing them. The artery is half an inch back from the inner surface of the clavicle, and its upper margin often very little above that of the clavicle. The whole space, from the giving off of the carotid, to the entrance be- hind the scalenus, is usually only about five-eighths of an inch, and there, immediately behind the artery and nerves, is the pleura, in danger of being injured. Add to all this, the chance of failure, from the carotid coming off so near the site of the ligature. It is much safer, as well as easier, to tie the arteria innominata (page 72). The operation is still more hazardous on the left side. There, it is from three quarters, to more than an inch, back from the inner surface of the clavicle. Its inner margin comes up, about a quarter, out from the articulation. The artery bends out to the scalenus, with its upper margin about level, with that of the clavicle. To insulate and tie the arter}', thus deep, without injuring the pleura would require great care and delicacy, even were there no other parts in connexion. But let us attend to this connexion. In dissecting here, under the muscles, we see, first, the carotid artery and jugular vein. Separating these from one another, we find the eighth nerve, on the vertebral vein, which is traversed, on its inside, by a thyroid branch. Under these, we have the vertebral artery, with a ganglion or plexus of nerves, both before and behind it. The vertebral artery and vein, are rather covered by the carotid than the jugular. Laying hold of the vertebral artery, we can pull up, a little, the subclavian, which gives it off’, and which is