279 lying deep behind the clavicle. The phrenic nerve runs down, on the outside of the vertebral and subclavian arteries, the eighth descends on the face of the subclavian. But if these can, with difficulty, be preserved from injury, the sym- pathetic branches, even if the ganglion were safe, cannot escape. The recurrent nerve comes up, deep, at the side of the trachea, parallel to the subclavian, but not so near it as to be exposed. The thoracic duct winds outward, from be- hind the carotid artery, across the posterior surface of the jugular vein, and must be in great danger, even, although the subclavian, bend behind the scalenus, lower than the arch of the duct. Let us next attend to the Subclavicular or Pectoral, and Axillary region. This is covered, first of all, by the large Pectoral muscle, which is divided into a clavicular and sternal portion, sometimes, separated from each other, by a distinct, and even broad cellular line, but in other cases, distinguishable, only, by the course of the fibres. The line of separation, is not always, exactly, from the sternal end of the clavicle, but occasionally from half an inch, to an inch, more outward. If the arm be close by the side, it runs toward the humerus, or front of the axilla, to a point, near half an inch below the extremity of the coracoid process. The deltoid muscle, arises from the outer third of the clavicle, and its an- terior margin, bounds that of the pectoralis, at the clavicle, but, presently, lies a little over the latter, the tendon of which passes under it, and is wrapped over the biceps, to which it adheres, by cellular substance. The long head of the biceps, is just on the inside of the insertion of the pectoralis. The extent of this insertion, varies in different individuals, not merely owing to their size, but to the peculiarity of the muscle. The sternal portion of the muscle, is inserted, directly, by a thin tendon, into the upper margin of which, the clavicular portion is obliquely implanted. In some, the tendon extends for near two inches and a half, from the neck of the bone. In others, it does not begin to be inserted till more than an inch below its head. When the tendon is inserted abruptly, that is, with margins nearly parallel to each other, it may be 4