stance. At the ankle, it winds forward behind the tendon of the flexor digitorum, to get to the side of the os calcis, where it divides into the two plantar arteries. Its course is oblique. At the top of the leg, it is nearly in the median line. At the top of the middle third, in males, it is fully an inch, in females, only three-fourths, out from the edge of the tibia. At a handbreadth above the ankle, it is half an inch; lower it is rather less. It is accompanied by two veins, one on each side, except at the ankle, where they are obliquely before and behind. They are often nearly of equal size, but generally the innermost is largest, and opposite the top of the condyle it receives the smaller from the inside, forming thus the pop- liteal vein, which partly covers the popliteal artery. The posterior tibial nerve at the upper part, has the belly of the plantaris muscle close by its outside. As it descends, it keeps by the margin of the flexor pollicis, and consequently from first to last, close by the fibular margin of the artery. There is, however, in some cases, a little difference, for at the top, the nerve, looked at from behind, may sometimes rather cover the artery; and, at a handbreadth above the ankle, it may be partly covered by the artery and its veins. About three quarters of an inch below the origin of the tibialis antica, the Peronea rises. It descends by the outer margin of the tibial nerve, and by the inner one of the flexor pollicis, for three inches. A little above the middle of the leg, it is overlapped by that muscle, then, is close behind the edge of the fibula, between it and the attachment of the tibi- alis posticus, but, strictly, cannot be said to rest on the inter- osseous ligament. When it rises lower, say an inch and a quarter below the antica, it gets very soon covered by the flexor pollicis. About two inches above the outer ankle, it sends a branch called the anterior peronea, through the in- terosseous ligament, which descends on the tibial margin of the fibula, forms an anastamosing loop with the tibialis antica, and is distributed on the neighbouring parts. A branch goes down under the peroneus tertius, and over the tendon of the peroneus longus; another goes to the outside of the heel. The continuation of the trunk is called the posterior peronea.