G4 and os hyoides, bvit extends outward under the sterno-mastoid, and forms a continuation of that fascia formerly described, as being reflected from the under surface and posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid forward, and is therefore only now again noticed, on account of the firm covering it affords to the lower portions of the neck. On removing the platysma at the stei’- num, we cannot touch the muscles directly, but have this strong fascia, which adheres to them, and is implanted into their origins, interposed. Even, were they quite absorbed, neither the finger nor any thing else could directly touch the trachea or thyroid gland, nor pass down on the innomi- nata, far less into the thorax, till this fascia were torn or cut. But this is not the whole history of the strata here, for on cutting this, and dividing the sterno-hyoideus and thyroideus, we find that the inner surface of the thyroideus is lined with a thin fascia, which goes to the sternum. It there meets with the sheath of the vein and of the innominata, to which it adlieres, and is reflected upward from it over the trachea to the thyroid gland, where it sends a firm expansion below the gland, and a firmer layer over it, so as to include it in a kind of capsule. It at the sides extends upward over the carotid artery, and outward along the clavicle, and higher along the deep muscles, to the transverse processes of the vertebrse. It covers that part of the sheath of the vessels which is covered by the sterno-thyroideus, whilst tliat part which has emerged from this muscle, is covered, as already noticed, by the more external fascia which covers these muscles. This deep fascia is of great importance. We see that it both covers and lines the sterno-hyoidei, and thyi’oidei muscles; and when tlie mastoid is removed, it is seen spreading outward over the vessels, nerves, and levator scapulae. But it is at the clavicle that it is most necessary to attend to it. It is there, at the sternal end, identified with the sheath of the jugular vein, and then of the subclavian, and is reflected from their face to the inside of the clavicle, fixing them firmly there; and, till lacerated, preventing any thing passing down between them and the bone. It does not stop here, but is in like manner reflected from the face of the artery and nerves, and levator