209 however, continue to preserve the direction which would have been kept by the nerve, had it gone on. So long as the nerve is seen, it is lowest and most median. About rather more than an inch forward, from the back of the angle of the jaw, and about an inch up, from the margin of the blade, we see the fifth nerve appear, from between the pterygoid mus- cles. It runs along the under surface of the tongue, at the angle formed by the reflection of the mucous membx*ane. Just to the outside of the ninth nerve, is the duct, and to the outside of that, the fifth, but this as it proceeds, gets to the inside of the duct. The duct runs on, between the prolonga- tion of the submaxillary gland and the fifth nerve, to near the front of the os hyoides, where it hooks round by the in- side of the nerve, and goes on to the frenum. This nerve, must, at first, be higher than the duct and other parts. A wire introduced into the duct, is felt distinctly by the finger in the mouth, close under the mucous membrane, where it is reflected off from the tongue to the jaw. If we cut the mem- brane, close by the tongue, we come on the nerve; if nearer the alveolar process, we come on the duct. The Sublingual Gland, occupies all the space from the mar- gin of the hyo-glossus muscle, to the frenum, or near the in- side of the chin, and it is connected by a strip of gland to the submaxillary. Its size, however, is variable, from three quarters of an inch to an inch long, and from less than half an inch to three quarters broad, at the middle, for it is some- what ovate. It is about three-sixteenths thick. It either sends a duct to open into that of the submaxillary, or minute ducts open, directly, beneath the tongue, at the frenum. The finger introduced into the mouth, will, just behind the fre- num, press on the gland, through the mucous membrane. It is bounded, before, by the genio-hyoideus, on the inside, by the genio-hyo-glossus, which separates it from the gland on the other side, and it is covered, on the outside, by the mylo- hyoideus. The submaxillary duct, ranular vein, and fifth pair of nerves pass above it, or are involved in it. When the submaxillary gland swells, or becomes diseased, It may enlarge, principally downwai’d, so as to protrude the