94 gardetl. It may be said, extend the incision, and this undoubt- edly will facilitate the operation; but we must remember, that we are cutting a living, and not dissecting a dead body. I would, therefore, say, that unless in a very special case, or where some peculiarity in a projected operation evidently points out the propriety of tying the external carotid, it will be better to apply the ligature to the common carotid; and as to the danger of injuring the carotid plexus, or network of the nervi molles, that is just as much in the one case as in the other. The Internal Carotid is often at first a little more external and more lateral in the neck, but goes behind the external as it is passing under the digastric. At the under margin of the muscle both carotids are nearly of the same depth, but presently the internal goes more inward to get within the styloid process, and there, in those cases where the external is barely a quarter of an inch deep, it is more than half an inch. There is about a quarter of an inch of difference between the two. The styloid process, varies in length, from an inch to an inch and a quarter. Its root is a little higher than that of the condyle of the occipital bone, and is immediately in front of the under part of the bony ring of the meatus auditorius, or behind the root of the condyle of the jaw. It passes obliquely downward and forward, and its course is nearly equidistant from the inside of the ramus of the jaw and the front of the end of the atlas. It descends, for nearly half an inch, parallel to the ramus, and is about three-eighths of an inch distant from the ramus, but is sometimes a little nearer at its point, which, in an adult with teeth, often reaches to moi’e than one-fourth of an inch farther forward than the posterior mar- gin of the jaw, and about three-fourths above the lower margin of the jaw-blade. When the jaw is opened to its greatest extent almost the whole of the process projects within it, whilst in the child, and toothless old man, no part projects. The posterior margin of the ramus and the process intersect one another at, from three quarters to seven-eighths of an inch, from the root of the process, according to the obliquity of the