9 00)6 laiion, kept up by communicating branches, will cause haemorrhage. In those cases, where the gland has been said to be extirpated, with little haemorrhage, and without tying the carotid, I believe that it was not extirpated at all, but only a tumour of the conglobate gland on its surface. The pro- per incision having been made, and the skin dissected off the surface of the tumour, we must next, cautiously, raise its lower part from the fascia, which intervenes between it and the jugu- lar vein, &c. In this stage, we also separate it, from its con- nexion with the mastoid muscle and submaxillary gland, and then, with the digastric and styloid muscles. Next, we turn it off from the masseter, and detach it from the root of the zygoma; in doing which, we have to divide the posterior facial vein. Then, we go down into the hollow, above the styloid process, between the ear and jaw, and clean the parts as completely as possible. The difficulty of clearing away all the gland, is greatest about the meatus, and capsule of the jaw. Should retrograde haemorrhage take place, sponge must be thrust into the cavity, and bound down. This is sufficient. If the carotid artery be not previously secured, we must expect impetuous bleeding, when we dissect the gland of the styloid muscles, and as the vessel there is deep, and the space confined, it is not easy to tie it, and the por- tion of gland raised up, would be a farther encumbrance. If the dissection be clean and fair, its mouth would be level with the surface of the styloid muscles. Even, should we stop in the dissection upward, before cutting the artery, and then proceed from the zygoma downward, leaving the artery till the last, we do not improve the matter, for the artery is cut, as it comes out to form the temporal, and even if the bleeding be restrained, by holding the upper part of the gland between the finger and thumb, we must soon divide the in- ternal maxillary and transversalis, which last, though small, will bleed enough to obscure the parts. Mr. John Bell put a needle through this part of the gland, and tied it with a firm ligature, leaving it to be thrown off. Some years after- wards, the patient consulted me on account of a renewal V y