471 without violence, be detached. 2d, The neck is absorbed, so that the shaft is brought nearer the acetabulum. The surface may be covered with ivory-looking substance, whilst the surface of the head is slightly hollowed by the pressure; or, on the other hand, it may expand somewhat. 3d, The capsule, which is generally entire, is greatly thickened, and so is the synovial membrane, not only where it lines this, but along the remaining part of the neck. It contains more fluid, in which are, sometimes, detached portions of cartilagi- nous-looking substance. 4th, Bands of ligamentous substance pass from the thickened capsule to the margin of the two fractured substances, and occasionally part goes between them. These bands keep the bones so far in contact, but this is, some- times, more effectually done by an intermediate and uniform layer of ligamentous substance, uniting tlie surfaces. The thickened capsule, with the assistance of these bands, forms a modified articulation in the site of the acetabulum. 5th, There may be altogether a new articulation, formed beyond the acetabulum, if the capsule be torn, and the neck carried up without it. In one case, the head was absorbed to a great extent, and what remained was united to the acetabulum, like an effusion of osseous matter. The margins of the latter were also more or less destroyed, especially at the outside. There was an irregular deposition of bone, on what should have been the outside of the acetabulum. The neck was quite gone, and the shaft, at the root of the trochanter, flattened, so as to lie on the new shallow articu- lating surface. The whole was surrounded by a thick, imperfectly organised capsule. I have seen exactly the same in the dog, in a case of more than ten years’ standing, only the remains of the head were more perfect, and the arti- culating surface of the shaft and ilium polished. 6th, The irregular deposition of osseous matter, which sometimes takes place, shows, that, although the obstacles are great to ossific union of the fractured surfaces, yet it is not impossible, and, in point of fact, even discarding those cases where, by macera- tion, a separation takes place, we have occasional examples of this mode of cure.