337 the external condyle, strong fibres, forming the external liga- ment, rise along with the origin of the supinator brevis. It is impossible to separate this ligament, from the tendinous origin of the supinator, and they are so identified, that we might say that they were one, were it not that the termina- tion is different. The inner layer, called the ligament, spreads, as it goes down over the head of the radius, and seems to be lost in the annular ligament. A few muscular fibres of the supinator, also cover this, especially at the fore part. Behind, and toward the ulnar side, the capsule is fortified by the tendinous origin of the extensor ulnaris, which extends from the condyle, to the posterior ridge of the ulna, below the little sigmoid cavity, and adheres to the capsule. To the outside of this, but still behind, the capsule is strength- ened, by the origin of the extensor communis, which adheres to it. At the outside, the lateral ligament and supinator brevis, are covered by the extensores radiales longior and brevior, con- nected only by thin cellular substance. The inner lateral liga- ment, forms, in a manner, the floor of the fibrous canal, in which the ulnar nerve runs. At the inner condyle, besides the strong fascia investing the triceps and fore-arm, we have another deeper layer, going over the condyle, and back to the olecranon, connected with the intermuscular line, and lost, above and below, in the triceps and flexors. This, which forms the covering, or face, of the sheath enclosing the ulnar nerve, divides, at the margin of the condyle, into two layers. The outer and firmest, extends, as just noticed. The inner and thinnest, dips down under the nerve, and outward to the olecranon, when it mounts up again, to meet the aponeurosis there. Thus, there is formed a distinct tube, or canal, for the nerve. Slitting up this canal, we expose the nerve, imbedded in a little thin, but dense, cellular substance. On turning out the nerve, we see the floor of the canal, covered with the thin layer of fascia just described, and when this is dissected off, we then find those distinct fibrous bands of the capsule, called the internal lateral ligament. From the back of the inner condyle, nearly on a line with the sigmoid cavity, fibres go directly back, to the end of the