168 itself under the liyo-thyroideus nniscle, along the liyo-tliyroid space. In its natural state, the side of the gland, at the cricoid caitilage, is overlapped by the mastoid muscle; and as it slopes obliquely backward, we have from half to three quarters of an inch covered. When the gland enlarges much, it may ultimately extend over the muscle, but lisually it goes beneath it, or partly pushes it outward. In its progress, it is more'' likely to go over, than under, the carotid artery, but this artery has been found on its front, or imbedded in it. It is rare for the gland to increase much, without involving other parts. Below, it may become connected with the lymphatic glands, which lie on the trachea under the muscles, and then a firm tumour may extend to the sternum. Above, it may involve not only lymphatic glands, but also the sub-maxillary, whilst laterally there are many glands, both deep and superficial, which may swell and increase the mass, and, thus, both the carotid and internal jugular veins may be encircled. On the other hand, disease beginning in the conglobate glands, may involve the thyroid, and one extensive but irregular tumour, may extend from the jaw to the clavicle, and occupy both sides of the throat. It would be folly to attempt the extirpa- tion of such a mass, whatever were its origin. In simple enlargement of the gland, it has been proposed to tie the arteries, in order to deprive it of nourishment, and diminish the action. Carcinoma is not a common disease of this gland, and when it does occur, the conglobate glands are often found already affected, or the disease too far gone, before consulta- tion, to admit of an operation. I now return to the par vagum. Nearly opposite to the thyroid cartilage, but sometimes so low as an inch above the clavicle, the nerve gives off the cardiac branch. It runs down with the trunk, and so connected with it, that it looks like part of it, till it get near the subclavian artery, on the rifrlit side. It then, or in a few cases earlier, detaches itself more from the trunk, and passes separately over the front of the artery, about a quarter of an inch out from the hifurca-