93 veins here. But it is evident that the recommendation of this spot arises from the high origin of the facial artery, which comes off within the digastric. Now this never can be known in any one case to exist, and is so uncertain, that it can scarcely bias our opmion of the operation. If the operation is to be performed, when we have proceeded so far in the dissection as I have described, the external jugular is next to be drawn forward, the internal pressed back, and the cross branch raised a little up, unless on trial we find it better to depress it. The lingual nerve will be pressed up with this vein. Hav- ing exposed the situation of the artery, by attending to the tract already described, we sponge the bottom of the wound, that we may better see the sheath. This is to be gently laid hold of by a pair of slender forceps, and drawn a little off the face of the artery. Having scratched it through, it can be slit a little farther on a probe, and the artery insulated, but no sharp instrument is to be employed in doing this, or pass- ing the ligature, as we have seen that there are many import- ant parts in close contact with the artery. Even an injury of the pharyngea would be very troublesome. We are not in much danger of mistaking the internal for the external caro tid, but when the hngual and facial arteries arise by a common trunk, that may be mistaken for the carotid. Now, nothing is easier, than to expose and tie the artery at the spot where it, in most cases, would be proper to apply the ligature, in the dead subject, where we have no haemorrhage, and every facility for dissecting. But if the veins be well filled, and the artery uninjected, or even injected, we find the parts a little more difficult to unravel, and the ligature not so easily applied. In the living subject, the difficulty is more; some bleeding may obscure the parts; we must proceed cautiously, lest vein or artery be injured; the depth is greater than an inattentive dissector believes. To reach the artery, we must, independent of the skin, go nearly half an inch deep from the margin of the mastoid muscle; interposed veins occupy part of the space, and often lymphatic glands come in the way. This depth and these interpositions may appear of little importance, but in so small a space, they are not to be disre-