105 ward and forward over it, nearly level with the jaw-blade, and, passing on, or through, a fissure nearly in the middle of the upper surface of the submaxillary gland, turns up on the bone, just at the anterior margin of the masseter muscle, or about an inch and an eighth forward from the angle of the jaw. It is accompanied by two venae comites, one on each side, whilst the facial vein is just behind it where it is turn- ing over the jaw-blade, or covering it where it is emerging from the gland. In this place, the vein leaves it to descend to the neck. It passes down from the jaw over the face of the gland, whilst the artery, if traced toward its origin, winds backward and inward over the upper surface of the gland, and quite hid by it. The gland and the artery are covered by the platysma myoides, and on the face, the vessel is also covered by the same, and by a deeper layer of thin fascia, which fixes it in its situation, and within which it may retract when divided. Its distribution on the face is to be afterwards described; but at present, I notice, that it gives off some branches below the jaw. Soon after its origin, it gives off a pretty large branch, which mounts up in front of its corresponding vein by the margin of the hyo-glossus, and between the stylo- glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, in the direction of these muscles, and exposed by separating them, and looking between them and the back of the pterygoideus internus. It goes to these muscles, the upper constrictor, tonsil and palate, and is named the inferior palatine artery. Next, it gives off’, a little more forward, a small branch, the tonsillaris, which ascends between the pterygoideus and stylo-glossus. Thirdly, it sends out, in the submaxillary gland, various glandular branches; or some- times above the digastric, and before reaching the gland, it gives off’ one large branch to supply it. Lastly, the submen- tal, a large branch, is detached before being involved in the gland. This runs forward, just between the gland and the jaw-blade, a very little higher than its margin, fairly within the blade, and exterior to the mylo-hyoideus. It goes all tlie way to the chin, or anterior belly of the digastric, supplying the muscles and skin as it goes along. It is coveretl by its