280 little more than an inch and a half broad, but, often, it is prolonged, by a firm band, down by the outside of the coraco- brachieus, for an inch farther, or, altogether, even to five inches and a half below the top of the head of the bone. This must be remembered, in considering the action of the muscle, in fracture. The platysma extends down a little way, over the clavicle; and the superficial fascia of the axilla, is continued on the surface of the muscle. On raising the pectoralis major, we see a layer of fascia which covers the pectoralis minor and subclavius, and the space which inter- venes between them. If we dissect it off this space, which is sometimes more than an inch broad, we expose the vessels, and nerves, imbedded in cellular substance. The Subclavius, arising from the first rib, and costo-clavicu- lar ligament, is inserted into the clavicle, from about an inch of its sternal end, all the way out, to the coracoid process, and into that process itself. It is about half an inch broad, and, besides being lined with fascia, is covered by an apon- eurosis, which, at the margin of the muscle, is ligamentous, and being at the sternal end, inserted both into the rib and clavicle, it has been called ligamentum bicorne. From this, a fascia goes off to the rib, rendering it broader, and forming a more extended covering for the subclavian vein at that part. The upper margin of the Pectoralis minor, is nearly, though not quite parallel to the edge of the subclavius, but not in contact with it; the distance varyingfi'om five-eighths, to more than an inch, where the artery passes. It may be pretty correctly marked, by a line drawn from that part of the coracoid process, which can be felt about half an inch for- ward, from the clavicle, to the second rib, at the sternum, though the muscle do not rise from that rib. This will be from almost two, to two inches and a half, below the under margin of the clavicle, near the articulation. The under margin, is in a line, from half an inch back from the point of the coracoid process, continued downwax'd and forward, a very little above the margin of the pectoralis major, near the junction of the fold of the axilla with the thorax. The in-