433 are in no risk of going through the fascia, into the cavity of the pelvis, if we cut exactly, the side, in the long axis of the gland, for we thus go parallel to and below the fascia, as it is reflected to the pelvis. The staff, if straight, is directed toward the hollow of the sacrum, parallel to the has fond. We do not wish to divide the neck of tlie bladder beyond the vicinity of the orifice, nor is it necessary to cut it so com- pletely through, as to carry the knife to the parts on its outside. It is safer to leave a thin partition, which, if it do not dilate in extracting the stone, gives way if more space be required. But, even if we cut the neck fairly through, or go a little more to the side with the knife, still we do not cut the reflection of fascia, if the staff be in the direction of the bas fond, for the fascia passes off in a line parallel to that, to go to the pelvis and side of the rectum. The knife would go below that, and above or before the vesicula. But, if the blade be directed obliquely upward, and especially if the point of the staff be too far forward, the fascia, at the upper side of the gland, may be opened, and the veins cut. On the other hand, if the blade be directed obliquely downward, the end of the vesicula may be cut. The knife being withdrawn, the staff is to be left, and the finger introduced, on it, into the bladder, after which the staff is withdrawn. If we feel that the opening is tight, and embraces the finger, we can intro- duce the bistoury on it, so as to enlarge the aperture a little. If the finger enter easily, we convey on it the forceps. In extracting the stone, if the levator resist the exit much, we can safely cut a little more of the tightened margin of the opening. We are told to divide the gland freely, but we must not do more, especially in old men, than divide its sub- stance, but scarcely its covering, for the veins are often very large, and, if divided, bleed profusely. W^e can, by pressure* stop the haemorrhage ; but the result is often fatal. It is said that the pudic artery may be cut by the scalpel, or bistour}^, and especially by the gorget. It may be so, if the operator be so determined; but it lies out of the way, and, unless the bistoury have its point turned very much to one side, so as to make the blade sweep across the inside of the 2 F