153 and its branches. This interlacement is not so well seen on the common carotid, though that vessel be more or less encircled. It is better seen on the division, particularly on the external carotid; and on the branches of this, even with the naked eye, we sometimes discover a continued and beau- tiful net-work along the thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries; but in other cases, we require a glass to trace this. Some- times we only see scattered nerves, whilst in other cases, we discover a complete and inextricable sheath. These anterior nerves, from their softness, are called nervi molles. From the lower part of the inner margin of the ganglion, some other small anterior branches go olf, which soon unite into one, form- ing the Superior or Superficial Cardiac nerve. The ganglion then contracts sooner or later, and more or less abruptly, into a trunk, which descends along the rectus major and longus colli, to the middle ganglion. If we look at the lower part of the ganglion, we there see two long nerves descending from it, the trunk of communication with the next ganglion, and the Superior cardiac nerve. This last which often receives a branch from the glosso-pharyngeus, runs down, generally, by the inner margin of the trunk, sometimes partly covered by it, some- times partly covering it. It runs behind the carotid, first by its inner, and then, as it descends, more by the outer margin, and often intimately connected with the sheath of the vessel. The distribution of this nerve is very uncertain. On the right side, it sometimes continues its course by the inside of the trunk, gives off a branch which turns forward over the outer margin of the carotid, and gets on its face, and then down on the innominata, even to the face of the aorta. This branch being given off, the nerve ends by intermixing with the branches of the recurrent, at the lower part of the neck. In other cases, and these not unfrequent, the superficialis either almost entirely ends in a junction with the main trunk, at the middle ganglion, or divides into two, the smallest going down by the outer margin of the carotid to the recurrent, the largest going, with a branch from the middle plexus or ganglion, to form the Middle or Great cardiac nerve. This last nerve rarely corresponds to the description given of it, which is, that it