518 The metatarsal bone of the great toe, may be displaced upward, from the cuneiform bone, for instance, by the action of the stirrup on the foot, if thrown from a horse. Extend the bone, and press it down. The first phalanx of the great toe, may be dislocated from the metatarsal bone, upward, or downward. The cap- sular ligament is torn, but the lateral may be entire, locking the ends of the bones, as in the thumb. The sesamoid bones may also be so placed, as to oppose reduction. The prin- ciple of treatment, is the same as I have described in notic- ing dislocation of the thumb, where the sesamoid bone also sometimes is an obstacle to reduction. In the club foot of adults, the os calcis, and astragalus, are chiefly affected, though the other bones are also altered in their position. The os calcis, which is always more or less bent down, is very much turned forward toward the sole, and also obliquely inward. It is so altered, that its articulating sur- face for the astragalus, is on what should be its side. It is joined at an angle to the cuboid bone, which, with the cunei- form bones, form a greater arch, directed downward, instead of across, so that the person rests on the outer margin of the foot. The astragalus is altered in shape, its tibial articulat- ing surface is flattened, and its projection, which goes to the naviculare, is altered, so as to be more or less angular, or wedge-shaped, whilst the naviculare itself is turned inward. All the bones are smaller than usual. The tibia rests on the astragalus, but so that its malleolar process is directed for- ward, whilst that of the fibula is backward. The bones, then, behind the last row, or cuboides, &c., namely, the os calcis, astragalus, and naviculare, are most affected in the adult. All the muscles of the leg, but particularly the gastrocnemius, are small; the limb therefore seems shapeless. These changes take place slowly, for in infancy the bones deviate less from their natural shape; and Scarpa asserts, that till the age of four years, the astragalus is less displaced than all the other bones. It is evident from the state of the parts, that some of the muscles must be shortened, for instance, the tibialis posticus, and muscles on the inner margin of the