than within a hand’s breadth of the patella, for there its tendon is identified with, and bound down by, the fibrous terminations of the vasti and crureus. We expose, how- ever, a mass of flesh, clinging closely round the bone, from the inner margin of the linea aspera, all the way round to the outer. It is only in that line that the mass is defi- cient, and that line is occupied by the insertion of the adductor magnus, and on the outside of that, by the origin of the short head of the biceps. The line formed by the attachment of these two muscles, is the only interruption to the complete encircling of the shaft (from the upper part, down to the divarication, of the linea aspera, to the two condyles) by this mass, which, when examined, is found to consist of three portions, or to be a triventer muscle. 1st. The Vastus externus, which rises from the base of the great trochanter, and thence down from the linea aspera, and its continuation, toward the outer condyle. The origin is seen by drawing forward the tensor, and backward the gluteus minimus. Part of the muscular fibres cover the fibrous capsule of the knee joint, and the whole ends in a broad tendon, which goes obliquely downward and forward, to be united with the tendon of the rectus, and then, along the side of the condyle, to the margin of the patella and its ligament, down to the tibia. In this course, it is united to the fibrous capsule of the joint, if it do not, with the expansion of the other muscles, actually form it. Besides this attachment, it also crosses under the tendon of the rectus, in a lunated form, to be identified with that of the vastus internus, and of the crureus. 2d. The Vastus internus rises from the base of the little trochanter, the linea aspera, and its continuation, to the inner condyle. It is implanted like the externus, only on the inside, instead of the outside. 3d. If we draw outward the vastus externus, we see the Crureus rising from the front of the bone, about an inch and half below the top of the great trochanter. It continues between the vasti, with which it is intimately connected, down to near the patella. About a hand’s breadth above that, it is inter- mixed with tendinous fibres, and presently ends in a tendon..