440 ligament, or as far forward as the point where the cord issues from the abdomen, and arching over it, as the internal oblique did, but farther out, or nearer the ilium. The fibres either arch over, or pass obliquely across, the cord, just at its exit, or soon after it. Immediately after this, they end in tendon, which is implanted into the ligament, or adherent to its inner margin, from this point, all the way forward to the tubercle, and forward on the rectus muscle. In all that course, to the margin of the rectus, it is identified with the fascia transversalis, as its inner layer, and, as we have seen, this united and inseparable substance, is reflected or extended outward, over the crescentic implantation of Poupart’s liga- ment, also on the origin of the pectineus, and down into the crural ring. The implantation of this tendon, then, is extensive, goes lower than that of the internal oblique, and, when the muscle contracts, or is pulled, the whole course of implantation may be tightened, or rendered tense—viz., behind the cord, on the crescentic ligament^and at and in the crural ring. The direction of the fibres is not always the same, for sometimes they go obliquely downward and forward; in other cases, they early arch, or curve outwards, so that the margin of the aperture is rendered tense by the action of the muscle. Even where they pass upon the crescentic implantation, they are not alvvays curved. It often happens, that a thin layer of muscular fibres, from the transversalis, goes behind the cord, to the tubercle, and also a few before it, so that it may, in these cases, be said to be enveloped in a muscular sheath. A fasciculus sometimes descends more perpendicularly behind the cord, at the supe- rior aperture, going to be inserted into the pelvic fascia, near the crescentic implantation of Poupart’s ligament. The muscular fibres of the transversalis, behind the cord, often arch down to Poupart’s ligament, and, in that case, form “ the folded muscular fibres” of Sir Astley Cooper. When they curve much, they must so act on the aperture as to lessen the risk of protrusion; but if that do take place, this structure will resist the return. This muscular layer is, in some cases, strengthened by a considerable fasciculus from