410 even to the rectum, in others it ceases to be distinct a quarter of an inch below the ligament. From its shape, it has been called the Triangular Ligament, but from its texture, it should rather be called Triangular Fascia; yet even this name is per- haps not strictly correct, for it is not an entire fascia. If, after separating freely and fully the erector from the acceler- ator, we press the finger upward in the wound, we feel the margin of this fascia, which is also marked generally by a vessel traversing it. If we run the finger farther up, toward , the pubic ligament, we feel that there seems a slit near that, or, in other words, that we come, first, to a broad firm band j of fascia, stretching across, then, to a more yielding part. It I is through this slit that the dorsal vein of the penis enters the pelvis. This fascial expansion in a manner divides the external from the internal muscles, forming a ground-work on which the former rest, and on which the canal of the urethra is placed, and through which it passes after leaving the bulb. To understand the formation of the fascia, I observe, that it consists of two layers, the external traced from the outside, the internal from the inside of the pelvis. If we examine the symphysis pubis, we find a fibrous substance covering it, w’hich J can be traced down behind the penis, over the ligament, to j this triangular substance; we should therefore say that it formed it. But if we examine the crura penis and the urethra, 1 we find each of these covered by a fibrous sheath, but the fibres of one are connected with those of another. At the angle where the crura divaricate, a fold of the fibrous en- velope of the urethra passes off to the pubis, forming a sus- pensory or connecting band. All these parts being continuous, we may trace the outer layer of the triangular fascia either from this suspensory, or from the crura, or from the fibrous covering of the symphysis. The inner layer is formed not by the common pelvic fascia, but by a deeper fibrous layer, adherent to the inside of the symphysis and rami. The levator ani rests on this, and it is essential to observe, that this layer not only extends down on the outer surface of that muscle, more or less distinctly, all the way to the anus, tending thus to