439 thigh, even’to the glutens maximus. The aperture is, in the male, about half an inch broad; in the female, about a quarter. The lunated margin of the aperture, which deter- mines its length, is distant from the tubercle, in the male, about half an inch ; next to that, five-eighths ; and so on, up to an inch. In the female, the usual distance is half an inch, and next to that, five-eighths, up to seven-eighths. In a few cases, the ligament scarcely passes out, and the aperture is small, and even indistinct. In both sexes, the superficial aponeurosis of the abdomen passes over the aperture, and down on the cord, or ligament. But, besides this, a layer, like a continuation of the margin of the aperture, goes down, even to the scrotum, as an envelope, called the fascia propria of the cord. The shape, or edges of the aperture, are not distinct, till this be detached from it. If we turn off the tendon of the external oblique, in the male, we expose the muscular fibres of the internal, which arise from Poupart’s ligament, to about the upper, or lunated margin of the aperture, just described. But all the way forward to the tubercle, we see muscular substance, more or less distinct. This descends on the cord, and is the cremaster muscle, which is said to arise from Poupart’s ligament, but seems rather an offset from the internal oblique, and passes out with, and on the cord, going down to the scrotum. If we clear away this muscle, and define the margin of the internal oblique, we find that it covers the cord, down to the lunated margin of the aperture, and there arches over it, to be in- serted, tendinous, into the tubercle and covering of the rectus muscle—the portion of the cord, which would other- wise be uncovered with muscle, being covered by the cre- master. The internal oblique is, at the margin of the rectus, so connected, as has been described, with the tendon of the transversalis, that, were we to trace from that margin, out- waid, we might say, that one thin layer went to line, for a very short way, the oblique, and another, stronger, went to the transversalis. If, next, we remove the internal oblique, we see the trails- versalis rising from at least the outer third of Poupart’s