.004. plnntaris, rising above the outer condyle. This tendon passes down by the inner margin of the great tendon, over- lapped by it, and is inserted with it. Lifting these muscles, we expose the deeper layer, covered by a strong fascia ex- tending from bone to bone. The first muscle seen, or pop- liteus, is oblique. It rises by a tendon from the outer surface of the outer condyle, beneath the lateral ligament. It be- comes muscular at fully half an inch from the margin of the condyle, reaches the tibia about an inch and a half below its articulating surface, and continues attached to its ridge for two inches and a half. Its margin is therefore sloping, and corresponds to that of the soleus. On the muscles farther down, we observe, on removing the fascia, a slight sulcus marking the boundary between the flexor pollicis, on the fibu- lar, and flexor digitorum on the tibial side. Separating these, or raising the former from the ankle upward, we find that it has been hiding or covering a muscle, closer on the interosseous ligament, the tibialis posticus. The flexor pollicis begins to rise from the fibula at four and a half, to nearly five inches below its head, and continues to do so till near the outer ankle. Its tendon looks as if it came out of the substance of the muscle, within an inch and a half above the end of the ankle. The flexor digitorum rises rather higher, from the tibia, below the line bounding the popliteus, and continues to rise till within three inches of the inner ankle, but muscular fibres are intermixed with its tendon lower. The two meet, at two or three inches below the origin of the flexor pollicis, and cover the tibialis posticus, a little of which, at first, is seen between them. This xdses from the tibia at the line of the popliteus, and from the fibula nearly opposite. It continues its origin from them and the interosseous ligament, till about a hand breadth above the ankle, where the tendon begins and becomes dis- tinct without muscular fibres. The fascia, at the ankle, is particularly strong, yet it is a continuation of the general aponeurosis of the leg. It ad- heres to the malleolus very firmly, and therefore braces the parts better. It is strengthened in front by an oblique band of fibres, extending across from the outer ankle to a