289 other, or, by one short, but large vessel, from the face of the artery. The division called Superior, or Brevis, comes for- ward, between the outer head of the median nerve, and the great vein. It ramifies, extensively, between the two pectoral muscles, accompanied by branches of the anterior thoracic nerve. Both, are covered by the fascia of the pectoralis minor, which they pierce, to get also to the pectoralis major, and an inner detachment from each, will be found to ramify under the minor. A branch also runs inward, at the entrance of the cephalic vein into the subclavian, on the face of the latter, to the sternal end of the clavicle. The other divi- sion, or Humeraria, passes outward, in the course of the ce- phalic vein, between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, deep enough to be hid, ramifying into these, whilst still deeper branches, go to the outside of the joint, and supra-spinatus muscle. One, to the acromian, is named, the inferior acro- mial, to distinguish it from the superior, from the transversalis colli. These two thoracics are pretty regular; the others are not. The Thoracica Longa, or Mammaria externa, comes olF, often, about the middle of the pectoralis minor, sometimes a little higher, or almost with the superior, and may run for a little way on the face of the great artery. A large branch of this, runs within the lower margin of the pectoralis minor, then, by the under margin of the major, into the mamma. In almost every instance, a considerable branch, sometimes the largest, runs a little farther back, entering into the serratus. Where this is wanting from the longa, we may have a large branch coming off high, and immediately joining the posterior thoracic nerve, and accompanying it, in its distribution. A vein runs along the face of this artery. The mammary divi- sion, passes from the margin of the pectoralis minor, to the seiratus, just within the fold of the pectoralis major, and thence, runs, in two or more ramifications, into the breast. These are accompanied with twigs of nerves from the inter- costo-humeral, and perhaps from the anterior, but not, like the other division, from the posterior thoracic. I have also seen the subscapularis artery come off, high, from a common tiunk with it, ox’, whilst the large serratus branch, came off*