467 head. The gluteus minimus, and part at least of the medius, with the posterior rotators, are on the stretch, or lacerated, and the same may be said of the adductor brevis. The capsule is extensively lacerated. The head of the bone is on the pubis, higher than Poupart’s ligament. The tro- chanter lies either at the anterior margin of the acetabulum, or may correspond more to its mouth, if the head be less forward. The femoral vessels are to the inner side of the head, but if it go more outward, the relation is reversed. This dislocation, upward and forward, from the acetabulum, is recognised by the limb being about an inch shorter, the foot is turned out, and the thigh a little abducted, and slightly bent forward. The head is felt on the pubis, at the groin, or it may be higher, having, in that case, torn up Poupart’s ligament. The reduction is accomplished by fixing the pelvis, and drawing the thigh downward, back- ward, and outward. We also, with a towel, draw the upper part of the thigh a little forward, especially if the head be high, in order to make it clear the pubis. We next, when it has been di’awn to the side of the cavity, rotate inward to throw the head into the cavity. In the dislocation, more directly upward, the head of the bone is farther out, being lodged on the pubis and ilium, close by the inside of the inferior spinous process. The trochanter is higher than natural, and on a line, only, a little to the outside of the superior spinous process, consequently its proper projection is lost. Poupart’s ligament must be torn up, from its attachment to the iliacus muscle, and that muscle so far raised or torn. The adductors, posterior portion of the gluteus medius, the minimus, and small rota- ors, must be stretched or torn, and the capsule lacerated, ihe limb is two inches shorter, and, in Mr. Morgan’s case, the foot was so much everted, as to give the toes a direction backward. The limb was so adducted as to throw the heel over the instep of the other foot, the projection of the tro- chanter was lost, and the head felt under Poupart’s ligament, by the inside of the spinous processes. In Dr. Cummin’s case, the head was more outward, being lodged between the