IS5 demarcation ; but, superficially, they are bound together by a general fascial covering. The line of the margin of the muscular fibres is almost perpendicular from the lower margin of the last rib, to the crest of the ilium, fully two inches and a half from the posterior spinous process. The muscular fibres terminate in the broad tendon, in a slightly convex line, ex- tending from the end of the seventh rib to the crest, scarcely an inch back from the anterior spine. They come so low, as little more than an inch above Poupart’s ligament. The broad tendon is said to terminate in the median line, called linea alba.* The Internal oblique rises by muscular fibres from the two anterior thirds of the crest of the ilium, or as far • The Linea Alba is formed by the union of the tendinous and fascial layers, which are external and internal, to the recti muscles. For instance, the tendon of the external oblique passes, at the under third, with those of the internal oblique and transversalis, across the I’ecti muscles—the tendons of the one side being continuous with those of the other. But, in the median line, between the recti, the tendons so sink, or the fascia transversalis so rises from within, that a firm line of union is formed. The tendons are said to be inserted into this line, but they only contribute to form it, and can be traced from side to side. In the two upper thirds, a layer of the tendon of the internal oblique passes behind the recti, and there these two muscles are not so near each other as farther down. The linea alba, there is more than half an inch broad, whilst nearer the pubis, it is a mere line. Very near the symphysis, the tendon of the external oblique iS connected with a fascia on the inner surface of the pyramidalis. The linea semilunaris, at the outer margin of the rectus, is formed by the union there of the tendons and fascia. The cross bands on the rectus adhere intimately to the muscle, but are super- ficial. The umbilicus, viewed from the inside, after removing the peritonteum, seems a small depression, shut up by the peritonieum, identified with the remains of the obliterated vessels, urachus, and a doubling in of the skin from without. When hernia takes place in the adult, it may be covered almost entirely by skin, or chiefly by aponeurosis, in close contact with the peritoneal, or herniary sac. In this last case, the surface of the hernia is, in colour, somewhat like the tumour in spina bifida, and often is fretted. I'he peritoneal sac, and aponeurotic covering, are often, especially in front, adherent to each other, which requires attention in operating. In operating, if the vessels be obliterated, we may dilate or cut in any direction; but we are safest in cutting toward the left side, or, if we go up- ward, obliquely to that side. Sir Astley Cooper recommends to make an incision below the aperture, like the letter T, so that the orifice of the sac may afterwards be covered. He justly, however, prefers making a small incision over (he orifice, by which the hernia protrudes, and cutting the stricture exterior to the neck of the sac. In children, the sac is covered by firm aponeurosis, surrounded by the common integuments.