17 the ligament of the angle of the jaw, which is continuous with an expansion from the styloid processes. Thisligament, or rather duplicature of fiiscia, is inserted into the appendices of the bone. The thyroid cartilage is just below the os hyoides, and the two are connected, not only by intervening muscles, but a distinct and firm membrane, the hyo-thyroid membrane. It is strength- ened at the sides by a ligamentous border, extending from the horn of the one bone to that of the other, and it is lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the larynx. The hyo-thyroid space varies according to the contraction of the muscles, but it is usually from a quarter to three-eighths of an inch broad. When the muscles are removed, and the os hyoides raised from the thyroid cartilage as far as the border of the membrane or hyo-thyroid ligament will allow, that liga- ment is half an inch long. The mside of the thyro-hyoideus muscle is also lined by a thin fascia, which extends from the thyi-oid cartilage to the os hyoides. It is connected by cel- lular substance loosely to the membrane below, or, perhaps I might rather say, that a layer from the hyo-thyroid membrane is reflected along the inner surface of the muscle, so that when it is raised along with the muscle, there is an appear- ance as if a sac had existed, and this really seems in some instances to be the case: and when it is so, the sacs on each side do not communicate in front. In this, or under the lining of the muscle, and on the hyo-thyroid membrane, a small gland, the hyo-thyroid gland, about the size of a canary seed, is sometimes, but not uniformly, met with. Tlie laryngeal nerve passes under the membrane, and the gland lies on its continuation, but with the hyo-thyroid membrane interposed. We shall presently notice the effects produced by swelling of the hyo-thyroid gland. The thyroid cartilage has a chink or fossa in front, at the upper part, which necessarily renders the hyo-thyroid space deeper than at the sides, as well as irregular in its shape. It also diminishes the length or height of the cartilage there. In an adult it is about five-eighths of an inch high, sometimes a little more, whilst at the side it is an inch, or an inch and an eighth. The breadth of each side of the carti- lage, from the median line to the posterior margin, is about