389 the little finger, and the ulnar margin of the ring finger; the other, and the thumb, are supplied by the median nerve. The ulnar nerve having, at the pisiform bone, given off some twigs, or a distinct branch, to the abductor minimi digiti, divides into the superficial and deep branches. The first is the longest, and immediately subdivides into two rami, one, runs directly down by the margin of the abductor, and over- lapped by it, on the flexor, to supply the little finger; another, goes more outward, under the ulnar arterial arch, to the ulnar side of the ring-finger. The deep branch dips down, crossed by the ulnar artery, at the under margin of the unciform bone, to get beneath the tendinous origin of the abductor. It then winds outward, like an arch, beneath the flexor tendons, across the iiiterossei, supplying these, and terminating in the abductor pollicis. It runs either on, or just by, the upper margin of the deep arterial arch. The median nerve passes under the carpal ligament, close by the trapezium, on the tendon of the flexor pollicis, and overlapped by those of the flexor sublimis. It comes out on the tendon of the flexor indicis, by the radial side of that of the mid-finger. Just before coming out, it begins to subdivide into the digital branches, which are deeper than the ulnar arterial arch, and on a level with the flexor tendons and lumbricales, It gives off five branches, besides twigs, to the muscles of the thumb. Firsthand second, it sends off, when still covered by the carpal ligament, two branches to the thumb. They run first by the ulnar face of the tendon of the long flexor, and, presently, by its two margins, the anterior branch also by the margin of the abductor. These supply both sides of the thumb, all the way to the point. Third, one which runs down by the radial margin of the lumbricalis to the radial side of the fore-finger. Then, one which subdivides for the ulnar margin of the fore, and radial, of the mid-finger. Lastly, one which supplies the other side of the mid, and radial of the rinff-finger. These, like the digital arteries, are placed at the sides of the finger, under the fascial glove, and run to the very point. They are in front of the arteries. 1 he skin of the front of the hand, is supplied by the ulnar