437 which the iliac is a part, passes up from the symphysis, to line the recti muscles, which, at the lower part, have no tendinous sheath. The iliac fascia binds Poupart’s ligament to the muscle, and rises up, lining the transversalis, and constituting the fascia transversalis of Sir Astley Cooper, to whose exami- nation of the parts concerned in hernia, the profession is so deeply indebted. It is strong for fully a quarter of an inch above Poupart’s ligament, but, from thence, upward, becomes thinner, and, at last, cellular. It covers that implantation of the ligament which has been called Gimbernat’s ligament, and is continued down into the crural canal. It, in short, lines the pelvis, and, distinctly, every part of the lower portion of the abdominal parietes; and, were it not perforated at one spot, the coi'd, or the round ligament, could not get out. How it is connected w'ith the fascia of the thigh, will be pre- sently explained. We now attend more strictly to the groin. The tendon of the external oblique is implanted into the spinous process of the crest of the ilium, and, thence, stretches to the tubercle of the pubis. In this extent, it is fixed internally by the fascia already described, externally by the aponeurosis, or fascia of the thigh. Internally, it is quite bound down to the iliacus, till we come to the femoral artery. From this point, the border, or ligament, as it is called, forms a slight ledge, or shelving, backward, that is, toward the pelvis ; and the upper surface of this, in the natural state, is slightly grooved, so that it forms a superficial channel on which the cord rests. This has, of necessity, two margins, or borders—the anterior, which is the outer surface of the ligament, and the posterior, which is continuous with the crescentic portion. This last margin is of importance in femoral hernia. The breadth of the groove, between the two borders, is a quarter of an inch in the female, rather more in the male. If we pull up the tendon, the groove is indistinct, but still the line, or shelving remains. Some, consider what is called Poupart’s ligament, as a distinct band ; others, merely as the border of the tendon turned inward. The former appear the most correct, from this circumstance, that, when the implantation takes place