117 it and the subclavian, and runs up behind the carotid, covered by it, or between it and the subclavian, and with the sympa- thetic nerve passing down behind it. As it ascends, it con- tinues behind the carotid, and scarcely farther outward. It is about half the size of that artery. In such a case, I can see no reason why, in the clavicular and lower cervical region, it should not be liable to aneurism, but I know of no example. Were it to occur, it might, as has been remarked by my brother, be mistaken for carotid aneurism. The confusion in the account of the other arteries, may be avoided by understanding that the scapula, which is of a triangular shape, has its three sides supplied by three different vessels, from whatever source they may be derived. The under one, by the suh-scapular from the axillary artery, and which, therefore, does not come to be noticed at present. The upper costa has the superior, and the posterior costa the posterior scapular arteries. The Superior, or Supra-scapular artery, if named from its destination, should be well named, but if from its course, it should be called the clavicular artery, for it passes obliquely along the inside of this bone, or a little higher. From this transverse course, it has been called also the Transversalis Humeri, or Transversa Scapulae. It does not always arise from the same source, sometimes from the thyroid, sometimes from the subclavian. It generally is a branch of tlie former, passes downward, and across the scalenus anticus, over the phrenic nerve, and brachial plexus. It winds outward over the scalenus, and front of the levator scapula, passing at the back of the clavicle, and a little lower than the upper sur- face of the bone. It often comes off about three quarters of an inch above the clavicle, but, about the outer margin of the scalenus, it is nearly level with it, and with the under margin of the emerging subclavian. Here it often divides into two branches, one running inward over the jugular vein, and lost near the sternum; the other, outward within the clavicle, arid over, hut not touching, the subclavian. It traverses that cellular triangular space, in which we cut for exposing the