86 inserted into the inside of the former for more tlian half an inch out from the articulation. The second often extends as far, or farther, particularly if the first go less out. One, or both, may not only cover the artery, but also the greatest part, or the whole of the vein, and the margin, often, is flanked by that of the omo-hyoideus. W^e have, therefore, a sheet of muscle, fortified by fascia, to divide, before we can expose the sheath of the artery. The recurrent nerve passes up obliquely behind the artery, and the eighth and sympathetic are close by its outer margin, at its origin from the innominata on the right side. The cardiac nerves are also very near it, and often the jugular so covers it, at least the inner half of its diameter, as to require to be cautiously detached and drawn outward. The inferior thyroid artery passes obliquely up be- hind the carotid. The vertebral, runs parallel to the carotid, but deeper, and about half an inch more outward, covered by its corresponding vein, which is just at the inner margin of the scalenus, partly covered by the jugular vein. On the left side, we have the thoracic duct behind the artery; but so long as we take care to open the sheath fairly, and keep the needle within it close by the artery, we are safe. We never willingly tie an artery near the giving off of another large one, and, there- fore, nothing but absolute necessity can make us apply a liga- ture to the right carotid very near the clavicle; that is, in the immediate vicinity of the origin of the subclavian artery. But on the left side we may tie it lower than on the right, as the carotid there rises from the aorta an inch below the upper surface of the clavicle. The carotid artery divides into the external and internal, at the top of the thyroid cartilage or the hyo-thyroid space, at a distance from the angle of the jaw, varying with the position of the head. When fully bent back, it is about an inch and three quarters below the angle. The trunk, at the bifurcation, is about three-tenths of an inch, back, from the margin of the thyroid cartilage. Its depth from the surface will depend on the fatness and muscularity of the subject. The external carotid lies partlv over the internal, but still about one-third of the latter projects to the outside, and the distinction between the