24G somewhat like shagreen, and of necessity covered, soon, by a crust of dried secretion. Such sores are not, necessarily, ma- lignant, and may be cured, by defending the follicles from irritation. But, if not soon covered with epithelium, and there be no subjacent induration, a cure may be sooner effected, and the risk of an unfavourable change prevented, by shav- ing off the exposed follicles; then, the muscle below, is covered with a cicatrix. The principle is, where we cannot cover the secreting surface, to destroy it. There is, however, this advantage, in the angular incision, and use of the twisted suture, that, by adhesion, we avoid the risk of ulceration, which may become unhealthy. The membrane is likewise liable to excoriation, generally, preceded by slight vesication, &c., and immediately covered with a thin layer, like fibrin, or the vesicles may be filled with white coagulated albumen. The membrane, or its subjacent cellular tissue, may become thickened and ulcerated, inde- pendent of disease in the labial glands. It is also liable to phagedenic and sloughing sores.^ Hare lip, when the bones are defective, is dependent on the state of the inter-maxillary bone in the foetus. But, some- times, the bones are entire, and the lip only cleft. This is easily managed by dissecting the attached margins, a little, and making them raw in the usual way. The Facial Artery, has already been traced, from its ori- gin, to the jaw. It runs, for a time, nearly parallel to the blade, and within it, and then turns, in a tortuous manner, over its edge, to get on the face, a little before the anterior margin of the end of the masseter, between it and the de- pressor anguli oris, some fibres of which cover it. It is, however, chiefly covered by the platysmal fascia, a circum- stance to be attended to in wounds, for, the artery is apt to retract beneath this, and its mouth is not so easily found, unless this fascia be slit a little, or raised with the point of a hook. It pursues its course upward, and a little forward, in the direction of the inner canthus of the eye, to which it runs, but not as a straight line, for it is tortuous. In this course, it passes from five-eighths, to three quarters, of an