393 vein, dipping down ovei- the brim, at from an inch to an inch and a half from Poupart. Deep, it meets the ureter and crosses it, the latter going between it and the pelvis. In the female the round ligament ascends out of the pelvis about three quarters of an inch back from Poupart’s ligament, and gets immediately on the vein, on which it continues till it almost reach the superior inguinal aperture. The ovarian vessels cross the external iliac, and go into the pelvis nearly three inches back from Poupart’s ligament, but there is often a difference of more than half an inch on the two sides. At the sacro-iliac symphysis, but not seen till the caecum or rectum be raised, is the ureter, which crosses, first the external, then the internal, iliac artery. In the angle between the ureter and the iliac vessels, we see the obturator vessels and nerve, with the remains of the obliterated hypogastric artery. Lower than the ureter and internal iliac vein, is the plexus of nerves, resting on the pyriformis, but not seen till the rectum be drawn aside, and the peritonaeum and cellular substance be turned off. On the iliac fossa we see several nerves to be presently noticed. If we cautiously remove the peritonaeum from the cavity of the pelvis, and also the lax cellular tissue on its outer sur- face, we expose the pelvic fascia, which can be traced from what is called the great pelvis, down on the walls of the cavity to the outlet. If we separate the bladder from its cellu- lar attachments, we see this fascia reflected up on it, from the bottom of the pelvis, and also partly on the rectum. We may run the finger along the angle of reflection, and thereby ascertain that the fascia passes off at the arch of the pubes, where, strengthened by fibrous substance, it forms two folds going back to the bladder, or rather the upper surface of the prostate gland, which is covered by this fascia. They are called the anterior ligaments. It continues to be reflected from within the rami of the pelvis and ischium, and a little above the tuberosity of that bone and from its spine. When we get so far back as to reach the sacral vessels and nerves, we find it passing over them, and, partly by a continuation of a thin layer with the vesical arteries, and partly by a reflection at