little farther down the process, more or less, according to its obliquity. If it should ever be necessary to tie the internal carotid, the incision is to be made in the same way as for the external, and the same precautions used. The vessel is found a little farther back, more in contact with the internal jugular vein, and hid by it, the sympathetic nerve behind it, the occipital artery, phai*yngea, and lingual nerve more or less in front of it. These, with the external carotid, must be drawn forward, the jugular vein pressed back, and the sheath fairly slit. Just at the division of the carotids a small branch is given off, which mounts directly upward between the external and internal. It is the ascending Phaiyngeal, and is chiefly dis- tributed to the pharynx, but it can be traced up to the very base of the skull, entering the foramen lacerum, and also by the side of the ninth nerve to the dura mater. It is not seen till we draw forward the external carotid, when it is at once exposed, close by the artery, and lying between the pharynx and rectus major anticus. It sometimes comes off by a com- mon trunk, with the occipital. A probe introduced into it may be run up to the cuneiform process of the occipital bone. It will pass, before the ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, up toward the eustachian tube. The first branch of the external carotid is large, but smaller than the facial, and is named the Thyroidea superior. It is in many respects a most important artery, for, owing to its size, wounds of it inflicted by the suicide, are often mortal. It comes off just opposite the top of the thyroid cartilage, or between it and the os hyoides. One branch immediately passes off from its upper face, and runs forward between the os hyoides and cartilage to the hyo-thyroid membrane. It is nearly as large as the barrel of a crow-quill, and is named the laryngea. It comes to the membrane just at the top of the horn, runs down close by its front, and forward from its root, along the upper margin of the cartilage and under the membrane. The laryngeal nerve reaches the top of the horn at the same place, and runs down before, and then forward above the artery, and