95 latter and the projection of the jaw. When the finger is introduced into the mouth and carried behind the velum, and then directed outward, the end of the process is felt very distinctly. The sharp anterior edge of the transverse process of the atlas is about seven-eighths of an inch higher than the mar- gin of the jaw-blade, and the foramen caroticum is about two inches higher than that, and five-eighths higher than that part of the styloid process which traverses a line perpendicular from it. This line falls about five-eighths inward from the ramus of the jaw, and very nearly in front of the sharp edge of the transverse process of the atlas. The tract of the internal carotid, is in a line, up from the margin of the thyroid cartilage, to the end of the mastoid process. It passes behind the stylo-hyoideus and digastric muscles, and gets a little more median or deeper, and lies close behind the stylo-pharyngeus. It mounts up on the inside of the styloid process, as the external does on the out- side, and, like it, crosses it not always at the same part, some- times at the point, sometimes near the root, according to the obliquity and length of the process; and often the two carotids pass very nearly in the same line, the one on the outside, the other on the inside, the internal generally, however, farthest back. It passes behind the tonsil, at the side of the pharynx, and disappears, behind the opening of the eustachian tube, close by the spine. It runs up about two-tenths of an inch back from the line of the ramus of the jaw. It lies close on the vertebrae, and not so much in contact with the process as the external is. The internal jugular vein runs up by its outer margin, and partly hides or overlaps it. When the artery is injected its outer margin corresponds nearly to the front of the end of the atlas. If the finger be introduced into the mouth, and carried back, it feels the atlas, if pushed laterally, it can feel a probe introduced into the internal carotid, lying on the latero-pos- terior region of the pharynx. If pushed a little lower, and still more outward, it feels, below, the external carotid a