523 It runs behind the ankle to the side of the os calcis, is dis- tributed to the heel and sole of the foot, and anastamoses with the posterior tibial. In its course in the leg, the pero- nea supplies the muscles, particularly the flexor pollicis. It also gives a branch to the bone itself. The Tibialis antica goes almost directly forward, between the popliteus and origin of the tibialis posticus, through a vacancy in the interosseous ligament, and gets on its anterior surface. It is, within three inches below the top of the tibia, met by the anterior tibial nerve, which descends close by its fibular margin, for nearly two inches, then it is on the front of the artery till within two inches of the ankle, when it lies to its outside. Two veins accompany the artery, one on each side. The artery lies close on the ligament, at first, between the tibialis anticus, and extensor digitorum, but about five inches, sometimes sooner, below the head of the fibula, the extensor pollicis coming more forward, separates the vessel from the ex- tensor digitorum. It has always the tibialis anticus on the tibial, but on the fibular side, these muscles bound it succes- sively. At the ankle, it passes forward under the annular ligament, with the tendon of the tibialis anticus on its tibial, and that of the extensor pollicis, at first, on its fibular side, but almost immediately the latter crosses it, to get on the other side, so that the artery is between it and the tendon of the extensor digitorum. It proceeds in the direction of the interosseous space between the great toe, and the one next it; and when it reaches that space, it is defended, by being sunk in it. When the artery, at the top of the leg, comes through the interosseous ligament, it immediately gives off* a recurrent branch, which penetrates the tibialis anticus and peroneus, to ramify under the ligamentum patellae, and over the front and side of the tibia. Then, in its course, the artery gives off many muscular ramuli, and within two inches of the ankle, it furnishes an outer and an inner malleolar branch. The first crosses the front of the fibula, ramifying over its process, and down on the side of the heel, and also joining the posterior peronea. The second, crosses the tibia, under