148 is about three quarters of an inch broad, and the nerve passes down within a quarter of an inch of the inner margin of the muscle, so tliat we may cut full half an inch of it from the out- side without touching the nerve. It passes down into the thorax as the eighth does, but differing in this respect, that the eighth passes by the inner margin of the jugular vein, and the phrenic, nearer the outer margin, or behind the vein. In its course along the scalenus, it is bound down to the muscle by an aponeurosis on the face of the muscle. It is, therefore, more covered than the cervical plexus, which is only under a layer of fascia. One branch, indeed, of the plexus seems equally deep, and it winds down, covered by this deep aponeurosis, to the outside of the scalenus, and gets under the levator scapulee to the deep muscles. In its track along the lower part of the muscle, it is sometimes covered by a vein and a gland, which, when it swells, may press on the nerve, and irritate it, or paralyze it. This muscular nerve is easily found by raising the fascia off the face of the muscle. The pos- terior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle in the course of the nerve, is nearly in a line with that of the scalenus, and quite covers the nerve, which cannot be seen till the sterno- mastoid be raised or turned forward. The phrenic having gone down near the inner margin of the muscle, and toward the outside of the jugular vein, or beneath it, leaves the muscle as soon as it has traversed the course of the subclavian artery, and enters the thorax between the artery and vein, on the outside of the mammaria interna, and nearly in contact with ft. It passes down to the diaphragm, between the pleura pulmonalis, and pericardium, adhering to the latter, on which it is easily seen. The right goes, more direct than the left, and runs a little farther forward. If the finger be introduced into the thorax, and the nerve pulled, it can be found just behind the sternal end of the clavicle, so that injury of the bone there, may injure the nerve. It can be traced going toward the median line of the sternum, and right side of the pericardium. It is almost in contact with the sternum, and tends a little from without, inwards. The eighth, on the other hand, lies more backward