197 produced, partly, sometimes, from the injury done to the glottis, thepatientcannotbreathe. Fromastate, apparently,moribund, he may be restored to comparative comfort, if not to hope of recovery, by making a free incision, over the wound, in the cartilage or trachea, or enlarging the wound in the cartilage, for immediately the respiration is relieved. The parts are then to be placed, in as natural a condition as possible, but we must be cautious in closing the wound. When part of the cartilage, or thyroid gland, is shot off, with the integuments, the danger is great, not only, from the extent of wound, but, from the effort required to heal it. In gunshot wounds of the neck, there have been instances of the ball being discharged by stool. Gunshot, are more dangerous than incised wounds, from the higher and more extensiveinflammation which follows, and they are also more apt to produce effects on the nervous system and stomach, such as globus retchings, and great sensibility of the stomach, cough, great heat or flushing of the face, fre- quent pulse, &c. Bleeding, followed by laxatives and opiates, constitute the best practice. Various sensations may also be produced, by the effect produced on different nerves, which the ball may have skirted without dividing. In all cases of wounds of the throat, it is also to be remem- bered, that the ramifications of the bronchi are apt to suffer, or even the substance of the lungs may be inflamed. On this account, as well as from the effect of inflammation of sensitive and important parts, at the site of the wound, it may be re- quisite, although the patient have lost, originally, much blood, to have recourse to the lancet, or the application of leeches, with the free use of calomel, if the mucous membrane be much affected. Some practical writers, from the risk of in- flammation, augur best, of those cases where much blood was lost before the wound was dressed; but this opinion must be taken with limitation, and, even, if depletion may be afterwards required, we never ought to delay securing divided vessels. Wounds of the side or back of the neck, inflicted by a cut- ting instrument, are to be treated as in other parts of the body, namely, by securing the vessels, and placing the surfaces