281 sertion of the muscle, is about five-eighths broad, and its breadth, at that part where the artery passes below it, is more than an inch. These muscles, form the anterior boundary of the axilla and subclavicular region, and, with the aid of the deltoid, at the coracoid process, shut it up every-where in front, below the clavicle. Behind, are the subscapularis, and latissimus dorsi, the last of which, with the teres major, which it in a manner encloses, form the posterior margin of the axilla, as the pectoralis major does the anterior. The Latissimus, at the ribs, is connected to the Serratus major, by a fascia, which is continued, with it, on the scapula, uniting it to the teres and infra-spinatus. It crosses the angular part of the scap- ula, covering completely the teres, for two inches from the angle. This last, then appears, first, between it and the infra-spinatus, and, then, farther on, between it and the del- toid. The anterior margin of the latissimus, gradually winds over, in front of the teres, yet, part remains behind, con^ nected to the infra-spinatus, thus forming a channel for the teres, which is enclosed between it, and the subscapularis. The muscle is not quite in front of the teres, till about an inch and a half of its implantation; all the tendon is before that of the teres. Indeed, in some cases, the fibres of the latter seem to be implanted into the posterior surface of the tendon of the latissimus, making use of it, but usually it is in- serted by a short flat tendon of its own. The tendon of the latissimus is about an inch and a half broad. Its upper mar- gin, is implanted, about half an inch below the edge of the head of the bone. It partly adheres to the biceps by cellular substance. The tendons of the latissimus and pectoralis, are implanted into opposite sides of the groove, in the os humeri, the space between them there, being half an inch, but from their divarication, it soon becomes wider. In this space, are lodged the biceps, coraco-brachieus nerves, and vessels. These muscles, with the bone, bound the axilla outwardly. On the inner or thoracic side, it is fenced by the ribs, covered with the serratus. Outwardly and backward, we have the scap- ula, lined with the subscapularis. If we proceed to the back