the dental artery, skirting the anterior margin of the lateral ligament of the jaw, till it come near the foramen, and then it passes between the ligament and the bone, entering the canal, sending twigs upward to the roots of the teeth, whilst the continuation of the nerve passes out of the mental hole, to be distributed, in a radiated form, upward and outward, chiefly, to the lip and chin. This foramen, is overlapped, by the anterior margin of the depressor anguli oris, and covered, by the depressor labii inferioris. It is situated about midway, between the under margin of the jaw, and that of the alveolar processes, rather more than an inch back, from the centre of the chin, under the fifth tooth from the front, or, if they be wide, or large, between the fourth and fifth. The continuation of the artery, issues with it. Before this nerve enter the canal, it gives olf a small branch, the mylo- hyoideus, which runs downward and forward, in a groove in the jaw bone to the muscle, from which it is named, and the anterior belly of the digastric. The Gustatory, or Lingual branch is smaller, and runs a little more forward, and always more median than the dental. It passes out, from between the bone, and internal pterygoid, about an inch and a half above the lower margin of the jaw blade, and joins the tongue, about the insertion of the anterior pillar of the fauces. Its relation to the tongue has been described at page 206. It also gives twigs to the internal pterygoid, and sublingual gland. This branch, is very early, whilst it is passing between the pterygoideus externus, and the outer surface of the circumplexus palati, [which traverses the posterior margin of the internus,] joined by the corda tympani, which continues connected with it, as it runs be- tween the internal pterygoid and the jaw. But, when the gustatory inclines toward the tongue, this soon issues, also, from between them, and forms a plexus on the submaxillary gland. The Portio dura, or Facial nerve, issues fully a quarter of an inch above the end of the mastoid process, from the fora- men stylo-mastoideum, which is situated nearly in a line.