229 cient to injure the mucous membrane, and if this be torn, the bone is easily broken. There can be no occasion for the trial. The Sphenoidal cells lie farther back, median of the inter- nal carotid artery, in its’ passage to the brain, and divided from the ethmoidal cells by a septum of bone. The end of the uppermost turbinated bone, as well as that of the sulcus, between it and the middle bone, are just in front of the cells, the fore part of which, lies over the very back part of the roof of the nostril, at the vomer, which is just under this. They extend back under the sella turcica, covered there, only, by a thin plate of bone, and bounded behind, by a slender wall, going downward from the posterior clinoid processes. Their size is variable, often, in toto, one and a half inch long, and three quarters high, but sometimes less. They are divided into compartments, separated by septa, and we know no- thing, practically, of their diseases. They open by a long aperture, behind that, from the posterior ethmoidal cells, in the sulcus above the middle turbinated bone. On looking at a perpendicular section of the head, we see the turbinated bones, partly connected with the ethmoidal cells, and farther back the sphenoidal cells. It is evident, that although destruction of the cartilaginous septum of the nose, may affect the shape of its lower half, yet, that of the bony septum, can have none in making the bones of the nose fall in. To produce a sinking in the upper half, the nasal bones must be destroyed. The turbi- nated bones, ethmoid, and septum, with the bones of the palate, are most likely to suffer in syphilis. At the side of the nostril is the antrum, which is large but irregular. Above, it is covered by the orbitar plate, before, it is bounded by the maxillary bone, not thicker than thick parchment, on the inside, by the plate at the side of the nos- tril, and by the membrane which fills up the void in it. It is generally wider above than below, the inner end of the roof being nearly on a line up from the outer margin of the canine tooth, whilst the inner end of the floor may be so far back, as the anterior margin of the foremost grinder. It goes as far