98 before the carotid, and descends, in contact with it, and par- allel to it, till it touch the cartilage, the upper angle or horn of which, is sure to lead to the very spot where the artery is situated. The artery having reached the cartilage passes under the sterno-thyroideus, by the posterior margin of the hyo-thyroid muscle, and divides into branches, both for the muscles and the gland; but we may notice, that one division enters the gland from its upper corner, going first a little way between it and the cartilage. Another large branch, passes down by the posterior margin of the lobe and anastomoses with the inferior thyi'oid. A third, in like manner, traverses the anterior margin of the lobe, and meets in front the one Irom the other side. Thus, the gland is generally skirted before and behind, by a branch involved in its substance, ramifying in it, and mixing with the branch first noticed. Another branch, and that not a small one, sometimes rather the trunk of the artery, passes under the sterno-hyoideus, then obliquely over the hyo-thyroideus, and along the margin of the crico-thyroideus, till it meet the corresponding branch from the other side; or, at the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage, it often divides into two branches; one, goes back- ward, along the margin of the cartilage, under the sterno- thyroideus ; another, forward along the margin to meet the one from the other side. It appeai-s, then, that this branch may cross higher or lower, but it rarely fails to cross; some- times it is at the margin of the thyroid, or of the cricoid, car- tilage, or on the crico-thyroid membrane. In the operation of laryngotomy we should be careful not to cut the margin of the crico-thyroid muscle, or to go too near either cartilage. If the artery run on the membrane, it may, if we clean it with the sponge, before piercing it, be in all probability avoided. If opened, it must be tied before entering into the crico-thyroid portion of the larynx. When the superior thyroid is wounded near its origin it bleeds furiously. It is commanded, by pressing the point of the finger in, between the horn of the cartilage, or the hyo- thyroid space, and the carotid artery. It is there we look for the jet of blood if the circulation be strong, or the feebler