129 jugular vein are rare; but we need not apprehend serious consequences from obstructed circulation, if the ligature be not applied near the foramen through which the vein issues. If the vein be tied below the os hyoides, the communication with the external jugular is sufficiently free to permit the descent of the blood, for there is no opposition from valves. I have tied, at the same time, the internal jugular veins on both sides of a rabbit, -without any bad effect either at the moment or afterwards. But in man, I have seen stupor or apoplexy produced by pressure on the vein near the base of the skull. There is little space for tying it between the atlas and root of the styloid process. The vein runs between the atlas and styloid process, and the finger sunk inward and backward from the ramus of the jaw, half an inch above its angle, touches the atlas, and all that rests on it. The Vertebral, belongs both to the spinal canal and the muscles. It consists of two divisions. The internal, accompanies the vertebral artery, but lies in front of it, and at each intervertebral space receives branches from the muscles. It does not come from within the skull, however, but only receives a vein from the condyloid hole, where that vein exists. It begins from the deep muscles, such as the obliqui, &c. and enters above the vertebral artery, along the front of which it runs down, and at each intervertebral space receives a ramus from the muscles behind, and another from the verte- bral sinus, or that long vessel (one on each side) which runs at the side behind the bodies of the vertebrae, from one end of the spine to the other, but belonging to the spinal, not to the cerebral circulation, with which it has no connexion. These singular and important tubes, smaller in the neck than in the back, communicate with each other at every verte- bra, by a transverse canal, which runs between the body of the bone and the posterior vertebral ligament, at the margin of which the tube is situated, and which seems lost over, or on it. '^riiese transverse branches receive blood from the substance of the bone; and the tubes, or sinuses themselves, receive, from behind, the meningeal veins, which are small^ and delicate, but very numei’ous and plexiform. Uk) the patho-