88 stylo-hyoideus, and the ninth nerve. The facial artery passes under these muscles, and winds forward to the submaxillary gland. On exposing the muscles, the digastric is found lowest, and immediately above it, the more slender stylo-hyoideus, adhering to it by cellular substance, and by pressing these muscles up, the arteries are exposed, or by sinking the finger above them, we immediately touch the point of the process, over which the external carotid passes. It passes under the digastric and stylo-hyoideus, and over the point of the pro- cess. If, again, we go more backward, and press toward the spine, we feel the transverse process of the atlas, over the front of which important parts pass. If the finger be sunk obliquely behind the head of the mastoid muscle, about full half an inch higher than the angle of the jaw, and for about five-eighths of an inch deep, the front of the transverse pro- cess is felt. At the very extremity of this front, covered by tlie digastric near its origin, is the internal jugular vein. The pneumo-gastric nerve goes down just on the inside of the vein, and overhung by it, and the internal carotid lies to the inside of this, or rather, we may say, it lies to the inside of the vein, being overhung by it, the nerve lying between them, and partly covered by the artery. The ganglion of the sympa- thetic nerve is still more inward than the pneumo-gastric nerve, and is quite covered by the artery, which lies on it. At this part, crossed by the digastric, we have, lying in con- tact with, and nearly parallel to, one another, in succession as we go inward, the jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric nerve, the two carotids covering the ganglion, and on the surface of these parts we have, coming down as if betwixt them, the lingual nerve, which descends parallel with them till near the angle of the jaw, where it crosses the face of the external carotid artery. All these important parts, in the undistended state of the vessels, are found in a space little more than five- eighths of an inch broad, and at about the same depth from the jaw. The superior laryngeal nerve, about the size of a thick thread, passes obliquely between the ganglion and the two carotids. The veins are by no means regular in their course, and I refer, for the present, to the account given