270 five-eighths to nine-tenths behind it, the intervening space being occupied by the arteria innominata, and partly by the vein. The space is thus filled, completely, in the flaccid state of the oesophagus, and therefore, when a large morsel of food passes, the back part of the trachea, which is pliable, must, for the instant, be pressed a little forward, the whole tube moved a little, perhaps half an inch, forward, and the vessels more or less com- pressed. Hence, a bulky substance, if impacted there, or, at eight inches and a half, from the front teeth, of the upper jaw, may produce immediate suffocation, and, on the other hand, aneurism of the innominata, or enlargement of the thymus gland, may not only affect the breathing, but cause dysphagia. As the trachea is barely an inch broad, at the most, there must be a space, on each side of it, of about an inch and a half, and although this, at each end, is encroached on, to the extent of about a quarter of an inch, by the scalenus anticus, yet, the distance fi’om the trachea to the margin of the scalenus, is fully three quarters of an inch, and there is ample space left for the great vessels and nerves, and for lat- eral distension of the oesophagus, and the partial motion of that tube itself, which lessens the necessity for it, in the ante- ro-posterior direction. It also permits of more motion of the trachea, without affecting the vessels. The relation of the pleura to this space, and the covering of fascia, have been described at page 66. The rib is placed, obliquely, from the sternum, up to the transverse process of the verte- brae, where it is articulated, about an inch higher, than the surface of the clavicle. If we make a deep and extensive in- cision above the clavicle, and thrust back the finger to the spine, we feel the rib coming off from that, like a flat process, and can trace it forward and downward, to the end of the clavicle. The rib, at the sternum, is not quite half an inch below the upper margin of the clavicle. It is level with it, about an inch and three quarters, fi'om the sternal articulation, and then gets gradually higher. The most important point, is its height, at the outer margin of the scalenus, where the artery Issues. This must, of necessity, vary, a little, according