348 interosseous. The two first, must be fairly torn, and the two last, if not torn, are stretched to the extent of about an eighth ot an inch, and the tightening continues till about half way down between the two extremities of the radius. Any attempt to increase supination, stretches the interosseous ligament more. The lower part of it is not affected. The supinator brevis and radial nerve are stretched, and the tendon of the biceps cax'ried forward. We reduce the luxa- tion, by pressing the head of the radius outward and backward, at the same time, that we produce strongly pronation, which rolls the head into its place. It is scarcely useful to extend the radius. Children are more liable to dislocation of the radius, than adults, probably from the soft parts being more easily torn. The head of the radius being cartilaginous, for several years, we might expect that the neck should be fi'equently detached from it, simulating luxation, but this does not appear to be the case. As the bones are comparatively pliable, a force, which, in an adult, would px'oduce fracture or dislocation, only bends one or both bones. When the x’adius is bent forward, at the upper part, there is a fulness at that part, and the fore-arm is fixed, in a state of semi-px*onation, fx'om the tightening of the ixitex'osseous ligament. By px’oper pressure, the bone is made straight, and free ixxotioxx restox'ed. Reverting, now, to the soft parts in fx’ont, at the joint, I remark that, at the outer side, the space between the margin of the biceps, axid its tendon, and the supinatox’, is occu- pied by the cephalic vein, and sometixues also by the median cephalic, when that runs xxp xnore parallel than usual, to the former. Both, in that case, but always the cephalic, cover the extex'ixal cutaneous nexwe, and that again lies often on an arterial branch, coming across from under the biceps, and runnimr down on the brachieus. The radial nerve is farther out, and deepex'. The vein here, has no particular branch of nerve on it, and the external cutaneous can only be pxdcked in venesection, by transfixing the vein, which may also wound the artex'y, and produce an aneurismal varix, but this, so far as 1 know, has never happened. At the inside, as has been