transmission of the supra-scapular artery. A small bursa, is found between its tendon, and tlie neck of the bone. In passing along this, it is connected by firm fascia to the cora- coid process, and also to the coraco-humeral ligament. The space between this muscle, the coraco-acromial, and the rhomboid ligaments, is filled with cellular substance. The former ligament is very broad, and is bound to the latter, and to the clavicle, by firm fascia which also covers the cellular substance. The infra-spinatus is covered, partly, by the del- toid, trapezius, and latissimus dorsi, but part is covered, only, by aponeurosis and skin. The teres minor looks like a fasciculus of the infra-spinatus. On raising, or removing, the deltoid muscle, the arm being placed by the side, we see, if we look in the direction toward the side of the body, the head of the bone, covered by a thin, flat bursa, and the capsule. Behind this, the bone is covered by a sheet of muscular substance, ending in tendon, and covered by aponeurosis. This sheet, two inches broad, is divisible into an upper and under portion, by a slight sulcus; the former, the infra-spinatus, is partly covered, or overhung by the acromion; the latter, the teres minor, is the broadest at the bone. Looking in front, or from the inside, we see the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps. More forward, we see the biceps better. A little farther down, cutting through, and turning down, the coraco-brachialis, and short head of the biceps, we see the subscapularis going to the inner tubercle, with, frequently, a separate fasciculus, im- planted lower on the bone. The end of the muscular fibres of these two sets, namely, the subscapularis on the inside, and the infra-spinatus and teres, on the outside, are on directly opposite sides of the bone, and the space between them is above two inches. The supra-spinatus is not well seen till the acromion be sawed off, for its tendon is implanted into the top of the tubercle, nearly at a right angle to that of the teres, whilst the tendon of the infra-spinatus, is inserted more obliquely between them, at the upper and outer part of the tubercle. The tendons of all the muscles implanted into the tubercles, are said to pass through the capsule to get to the