347 The radial nerve, and its branch to the supinator brevis, may be slightly extended. If we trace the shaft upward, the back part of the head of the radius, instead of being in a line with the back part of the condyle, is felt, well defined, farther back, and can be rolled under the finger. The hollow, or deficiency in front, is not always so well made out. Sometimes, extension, with supination, and pressing the head forward, succeeds, but, in general, it is more useful, during extension, and whilst we press the head forward and inward, to make a strong pronation, which rolls the side of the head of the radius, inward, over the ridge, or posterior margin, of the articulating surface of the condyle. This, no doubt, tightens the biceps, but if we once clear the resistance behind, that will tend to bring the bone forward. Should we fail, we may vary the plan, in so far as to keep the fore- arm a little bent, and draw the upper part of the radius backward, as well as the shaft downward. Dislocation forward, is more difficult to produce, as there is greater resistance in that direction. It may be caused by a blow directly from behind, but is most likely to take place, when a force, acting from behind, is combined with great supination. Extreme, or undue supination, cannot be effected without luxation, that is, neither the interosseous ligament, nor the pronators, nor the capsule prevent this, I’or j when all these parts are cut, still, we cannot materially increase supination, without throwing forward, either, the head of the I radius, or the carpal end of the ulna. I In this dislocation, the fore-arm is semibent, and cannot 1 be completely bent. The shaft of the radius is directed I forward, which may give the upper part of the fore-arm, an j appearance of pronation, but the wrist is supine. Rotation I is difficult. A hollowness is perceived behind, below the ^ outer condyle, and the head is felt, though obscurely, for- 'I ward and inward. It rests on the outer fasciculus of the i brachieus, which it may partially raise, and on the outer 4 margin of the coronoid process. This displacement is resisted { by the annular ligament, attachment of the capsule to the s cervix radii, the oblique ligament, and upper part of the