271 lo the obliquity and curvature of the rib, the breadth of the scalenus, which determines the site of the artery, and the shape of the clavicle, and position of the arm; for, if the shoulder be raised, the clavicle rises higher, but it scarcely makes a difference of more than an eighth of an inch, at the spot where the artery passes. At the inner margin of the sca- lenus, the rib is very little higher, than the under surface of the clavicle. At the outer margin, where the artery passes, the rib is, generally, lower than the upper surface of the clavicle, though sometimes on a line with it. The degree varies from an eighth, to three-eighths, of an inch, and it must be remember- ed that the rib, being oblique, will be an eighth higher at the outer or upper, than at the inner, margin of the artery, at its exit. The depth of the rib from the inner surface of the clavicle, at the outer margin of the scalenus, is variable, owing to its curvature, and that of the clavicle, and the breadth of the muscle. Generally, it is five-eighths of an inch, but sometimes more, so that the face of the artery itself, even when injected, may be that depth, and the uninjected, seven- eighths. At page 10, et seq., I have described the scalenus and other muscles, which wind round the rib, shutting up, so far, the entrance into the thorax, and, at page 66, I have explained the oblique ascent of the pleura, and the fibrous covering it possesses, at the side of the trachea. At page 108, the course of the vertebral artery, mammaria, and cervicalis profunda, is described, and at 177, that of the subclavian on both sides, before entering the scaleni muscles, and also the relation to important nerves. At page 79, the thoracic duct is noticed; at 117, and 181, there is an outline of the arterial branches in this district, and at 183, the relation of the axillary plexus of nerves. By comparing all these, the necessity of repetition, here, is lessened. J The most important branches, in this district, are given off, at the inner margin of the scalenus, from one trunk or axis. These are, the transversalis humeri, or supra-scapularis, and the transversalis colli, or posterior scapular, with their corre- sponding veins. We have also other two sets of branches,