pass under the nerve. The middle ganglion of the sympa- tlietic is behind the carotid, nearly in a line with the lower part of the cricoid cartilage; and as the ramus thyroideus generally arches a little up before it bends down to get to the gland, it is usual to find it connected with the plexus, or ganglion, which extends down more or less. The ramus passes behind the nerve, but often one division of it runs over the face of the artery, and we have a number of small branches sent off along the artery towai'd the gland. The artery having reached the gland, does not immediately penetrate it, but goes on behind it, and mounts upward, so that its branches enter the gland higher. In exposing, then, and tying this artery, we must be gentle in drawing the carotid aside, lest we injure the sympathetic nerve,' and if, on the left side, we go low, we might also injure the thoracic duct. We must divide the deep aponeurosis before we can insulate the arteiy, which should be cautiously done both to avoid the recurrent, and also to free the artery as much as possible from the sympathetic branches. The lower thyroid vein does not accompany the artery, but two run down near the front of the gland, one belonging to each side, but very near each other. These receive branches from the front and sides, and they run down in the cellular substance, in front of the trachea, under the muscles, toward the jugular, or subclavian vein, and are con- nected with a venous plexus, formed by the tracheal veins. From the sides and back of the gland, other branches arise, which either enter into these trunks, or form on each side a distinct trunk, running downward and backward. We must also recollect, that occasionally there is an azygos thyroid artery, of lai’ge size, arising from the innominata, and going up to the gland. We have sometimes, without this artery, an azygos vein going to the vena innominata. We must also remember, that there are several cutaneous branches on the front of the neck in the platysma myoides. All of these dif- ferent vessels may be much enlarged, the veins visibly so, and the arteries felt pulsating in the tumour. The nerves are also sometimes enlarged. The venous branches alone, under the muscles, and on the gland, may, in disease, be so numerous