60 tlivided muscles into the thorax. We cannot even> to speak strictly, touch the sheath of the innominata, for this is reflected over it. We cannot, till we tear it, touch the pleura, for it is connected with the sternum, at the origin of the muscles, and is there pretty strong. The importance of this fascia, and of the outer one on the surface of the muscles, in suppurating glands and external sores, is great, both in confi.ning matter, and leading it in an unfavourable direction. But I have great doubt if tbe removal of the fascia, or an opening made in it, should have any effect in obstructing respiration. When this appeared to have been the case, I apprehend that more extensive changes within the thorax, or about the mediastinum, had taken place. Exposure of the trachea, in operations or experiments, does not produce for one moment any difficulty of breathing. I have just to notice another defence more or less distinct, in different cases, and deeper than any yet described. So high as an inch and a half above the clavicle, the common anterior ligament of the spine, is found to give off an expan- sion, sometimes strong and fibrous, and sometimes more delicate, which passes outward and downward beneath the trachea, over the longus colli, and under the scalenus, between it and the pleura, and becomes firmly attached to the upper margin of the rib, so that when this is strong, nothing can touch or press on the pleura, till it be cut The rib being placed obliquely, this expansion must form an oblique sheet, beneath which, we find the continuation of the pleura costalis, covering the lung and its proper pleura. The distance between the anterior margin of the scalenus and the trachea, is about an inch. As the lung extends as high as the first rib, and as tbe spinal end of this is an inch and a half above the top of the margin of the sternum, the lung reaches above that bone by tbe side, and it is necessary to have a defence for it, and an entire state of the thorax. This shelving sheet, with the pleura and lung, extend for about an inch above the clavi- cle, by the side of the windpipe, and it is deficient or per- forated at the middle or top, for the admission of the trachea, and veins and gullet, and the issue of the cai’otid and sub-