477 for this cannot be pressed down. Sir Astley Cooper advises a strong, broad, leather belt, properly stuffed, to be buckled round the part. We may also use a splint, to steady, farther, the limb. Sometimes, after two or three days, the tendency to tilt forward diminishes,- and the straight position can be employed. But experiment must decide this. In the middle third of the thigh, there is much less tendency in the upper portion to project; but the under one is drawn inward and upward, behind it. 7’here is a tendency in the two ends to meet, at an obtuse angle, directed inward and forward, whilst the foot revolves outward. The pectineus and adductor brevis, though partly neutralized by the gluteus maximus, draw the upper end inward and forward, whilst the longus and magnus draw the under end upward and inward. The short head of the biceps may draw it back- ward. Our object is, to steady the muscles, by the many- tailed bandage, applied as firmly as the sensibility permits, and regulated, also, by the progress of the swelling. This dimi- nishes the risk of retraction, and the tendency to spasm. The usual application of splints, &c., is then to be made, and daily attention paid to the length of the limb, its straight- ness, and the correctness of the axis, so that the toes are not allow’ed to turn out. It is evident, that, if the knee be bent, the rectus, crureus, &c., must be stretched, though the long muscles behind be relaxed. No countervailing flexion can relax these last muscles. In the straight posture, all are put on an equality, as far as possible, and we can much better ascertain the length, &c. One great source of displacement, is from the trunk sliding down, whilst the leg does not, in the same proportion, precede it. It is not necessary to describe the means of preventing this. In transverse fracture, above the condyles, there is not necessarily any shortening, or even much displacement. But, at the time of the accident, or after it, the knee may bend forward, and carry the end of the bone with it, whilst the upper end goes backward. It is aided in this by the gastrocnemius and popliteus. It resembles dislocation, from the distortion, but is easily distinguished. A considerable