3G2 sends off a branch to the back of the hand and fingers. At the wrist, a branch goes off to the ball of the thumb, both muscles and skin, and also to the palm of the hand. Third, the internal cutaneous, about the middle of the arm, or lower, gives off a branch, which runs down by the margin of the biceps, and at the joint, superficially, between the median nerve and basilic vein, and trunk of the internal cutaneous, and down the fore-arm, winding a little inward. A large branch comes off above the joint, and descends on the peak of the inner condyle, winds with the basilic vein to the back of the ulna, and down that side of the fore-arm. The trunk of the nerve, or at least, a large division of it, runs nearer the median line, over the pronator teres, with, or on, the median basilic vein, down the fore-arm. The branches and twiirs of the internal cutaneous nerve, cross, or run more or less on the veins, where we bleed, with the exception of the cephalic. The median cephalic is also comparatively free. Fourth, The continuation of the radial nerve, near the wrist, becomes subcutaneous on the back of the fore-arm. The Radial nerve passes down on the outer condyle, buried deep between the outer fasciculus of the brachieus, and the supinator and extensor longior, both of which cover the nerve, the latter, however, for little more than an inch, as it then begins to taper outward. Higher than the con- dyle, the nerve divides into two; but these cohere, till they reach the lower part of the condyle. Both are crossed by the recurrens radialis, and both, at first, lie on the extensor radialis brevior, and inner margin of the longior. The Superficial branch, as it is called, is anterior to the other, even whilst they cohere. It descends, first, on the head of the radius, then, on the inner margin of the extensor brevior, till it reach the tendon of the pronator, then, at the under margin of this, it lies for a little on the flexor pollicis, then, on the face of the radius, and, lastly, turns out, or backward, from under the tendon of the supinator, about three inches and a half, above the root of the thumb, covered by the cephalic vein. It appears between the tendons of the supin- ator and extensores radiales, and subdivides immediately into i