399 oft the external cutaneous, which runs down on the iliacus muscle, generally most outwardly, with the exception of the ilio -lumbar. It passes out beneath, or through, Poupart’s li<rament, generally in the space corresponding to that be- tween the superior and inferior spinous processes, about half an inch forward from the former. It sometimes passes out in two divisions. From the second, we have, also, the genito-crural, which runs for some time in the substance of the psoas muscle, then it emerges, and at the last lumbar vertebra is crossed by the ureter, and at the division of the iliacs it separates, some- times into three, but, usually, into two branches. Both of them lie to the ilial side of the artery ; one of them, the largest and most external, enters the inguinal canal, and runs behind the vas deferens, to be distributed on its egress. It has been called the external spermatic. The other, passes out to the groin with the femoral artery. If there be a third division, it is small, and goes to the abdominal muscles or joins the first. The trunk of the second nerve then proceeds behind the psoas to join those of the third and fourth, in order to form the anterior crural nerve, which runs between the psoas and iliacus muscles. From the two last, there comes the obturator nerve, which descends into the cavity of the pelvis to reach the opening in the membrane of the foramen. The ilio-lumbar nerve, can only be seen high, and far back, scarcely, if at all, on the ilium. The ilio-pubal, sometimes runs on the outer margin of the ilium, but more frequently along the crest in the muscles, and therefore not seen. The nerves traversing the iliacus usually are, first and most outward, the external cuta- neous, runningdownward and outward, and, second, the genito- crural, dividing higher or lower into its branches. Besides these, there may be irregular nerves to supply the deficiency of others. The anterior crural, is deeper between the psoas r and iliacus muscles, either not seen till they be separated, or ) only seen near Poupart’s ligament. Along the ilial side of J these, there often runs a small nerve, which gives twigs out- ' ward to the iliacus, and then passes out by the side of the ^ great nerve, to be lost in the rectus cruris.