ot the side ot the head ol’ the radius, which is covered with cartilage, minus the lengtli of the articulating surface of the ulna. The first, is about an inch and a quarter; the second five-eighths. If then, the end of the cartilaginous rim, of the radius, do not pass beyond the little socket in the ulna, which it may be made to do, the extent of rotation, would be about five-eighths of an inch, or a little more than a fifth of the circumference of the head, (confirm- ed by experiment,) and about a seventh of the circumference of the neck, for the head projects more over the outer side of the neck, than the innei’, and the neck also inclines a little outward. The biceps, supinator brevis, &c., when in action, tend to limit rotation, and the oblique ligament does so also. This, which is more than an inch long, and fully an eighth broad, rises from the outer and fore part of the coronoid process, or rough portion at the top of the shaft, identified with the coronoid origin of the flexor profundus, partly covered by the brachieus, runs down on the ulnar side of the biceps tendon, or along its end or implan- tation, when the ai’m is supine, and is inserted into the inside of the radius, about half an inch below the tubercle. When the radius, especially in children, is much, and suddenly twisted outward, we may not only have the cap- sule stretched, perhaps partly torn, at the coronary liga- ment, but its connexion with the ulna, as well as the oblique ligament, may also be strained or lacerated. A fascial expansion going over the brachieus, and connected with the flexor radialis, and sublimis, and sheath of the biceps tendon, may be injured, or the little head of the pronator lacerated. In violent rotation inward, some of the strong tendinous fibres, which intermix with the supina- tor brevis, are stretched. The biceps tendon, and its fascial expansion, over the pronator, as well as its deeper connex- ions especially if the arm be extended, are strained, and so may the capsule, and some of the fibres of the lateral liga- ment. The sides of the capsule are strengthened, by additional fibres, named the lateral ligaments. From the very side ot