350 outer, the latter, the inner brachial comes, having the artery here between them. But it is rarely that this occurs. Usually, the deep inner ulnar comes, runs up by the inside of the main artery, whilst the outer ulnar, at, or near the bifurcation of the artery, meets the radial veins, to form the outer great comes, which runs up, rather on the face of the artery, at that part, than by its outer margin. Not only is the artery here very generally covered, more or less, by a vein of greater or less size, but it is not unusual, for some inter- lacements to take place, near the part, which renders the exposure of the artery, still more difficult. Just to the inside of the inner comes, is the median nerve, and close by it, on its inside, is the anterior recurrent vein, descending to the deep ulnar vein. To tie the artery, just at the joint, we must make an incision, parallel to the inner margin of the biceps tendon, merely thi-ough the skin. This exposes the median basilic vein, if the distribution be as usual, with perhaps one or more branches of the internal cutaneous nerve traversing it. The vein is generally best put aside, by drawing it inward with a blunt hook. We then have to divide, cautiously, the expansion of aponeurosis connected with the biceps, and a little of the deep fascia, higher than that. We now see, sometimes, but seldom, the artery. The greater inner comes, is most likely to appear, covering or hiding the ai’tery, and having the inner comes beside it, and the median nerve to the inside. By partly raising, and partly turning outward, the outer conies, we detach it from the inner one, which, if large, it may have partially covered, and expose the artery. All this, is, in some cases, comparatively easy, but in others, communications exist between the veins, or smaller ones enter the greater, in such a way as to render it ver}^ difficult to insulate the artery. Even, drawing all the deep veins inward, off, or over the artery, does not certainly expose it, for a deep radial vein, may perhaps be found crossing the artery, a little higher than the joint. Add to these natural difficulties, the effusion of blood, and sometimes matting of the parts, or alterations in the relative position of the artery and veins, which may take place, in S t