28 from expanding, for in ihe foi’mer case, tlie air is not allowed to enter freely into the rarefied bronchial cells. Many die easily when a vessel gives way in the lungs, for the blood, in the motion of inspiration, fills the ramifications as the air does, and, with little sensation, the patient dies insensible. The struggle, if there be one, is where blood prevents air from entering at the larynx, and excites it to spasmodic action. Other painful sensations are no doubt produced by pressure on the lungs, irregular action of the heart, &c., but they are not exactly the same with that arising from suffocation, which seems to proceed from the rarefaction of the air in the bronchia during an inefficient effort to inspire. If the tubes can be filled with any thing whatever, be it blood or carbonic acid, or any other fluid, provided the larynx be not irritated, it would appear that the sensation is not acute. An opening made in the crico-th^rroid membrane, if close by the under margin of the thyroid cartilage, leads into that part of the air tube which is below the glottis, and above the cricoid cavity. It is half an inch below the inferior band. The cricoid cavity is very nearly circular, and is five-eighths of an inch in diameter. The trachea within is about the same. A needle pushed in at the end of the thyroid notch will touch the superior band and insertion of the epiglottis. If pushed in about three-sixteenths of an inch lower, it touches the lower band. These circumstances should be attended to in wounds, and also in applying issues in phthisis laryngea. If the thyroid cartilage be slit up in front to its notch, we expose the part below the cords; and if we open up the division, we see, on each side of the opening, the sacculus, with the upper and under cords, apparently, connected to the cartilage, near where it has been slit. If, now, we separate the one side of the cartilage behind, from its connexion with the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages, and remove it, the cords are seen loose, and the sacculus is lost. The greatest measurements I have given apply to the adult male, but the parts vary according to the age and sex. For eight or nine years before puberty there is very little change, so that in the male, just before that period, the rima glot-