16 N the neck becomes paralytic, and soon the whole body is ' powerless. The breathing becomes slow and difficult, the heart beats perhaps not above thirty times in a minute, the urine is retained, and in a few days, sometimes in twenty-four hours, after these alarming symptoms have appeared, the patient dies. In most of the cases I have seen, there has been neither coma nor convulsion, the mind has remained intelligent till the last, and death seems to have been produced directly by the lungs and heart having no longer the power to per- form their functions. If the abscess be early discovered behind the pharynx, it ought to be instantly opened. Be it what it may, no harm can arise from the puncture, nor any good from delay. It will also be useful to apply caustic immediately to the nape of the neck, so as to establish an issue there. Should local tenderness, with any degree of fever, precede this, cupping, or the application of leeches, should be premised. Purgatives should be given, and if the excitement be considerable, the lancet should be used, but not pushed too far. Encysted tumours, exterior to the longi- tudinal fascia, or which do not involve it, are seldom, if evei’, productive of the effects I have described. The remaining muscles require a recollection of the carti- lages connected with the tongue and trachea. The os hyoides is the highest portion of the moveable apparatus of the throat. Wlien the jaw blade is horizontal, its upper margin is on a line with the chin, or at the utmost never above a quarter of an inch lower. The front of its body is situated considerably behind the chin, but even in adults the distance is variable. In some it is not much more than an inch and a half back from the front of the chin, in others it is an inch more. Its posterior extremity or horn extends backward very nearly to the line of the angle of the jaw, or at least to half an inch of the peak of the angle. The body is about three-eighths of an inch in height. From- the front of the body to tlie end of the horn is an inch and three quarters, and the distance is the same between the outer surflice of the extremities of the tw^o horns behind. It is connected to the head by what is called