408 with its nerve, that it not only at first is difficult to say which is wounded, but in securing it, attention must be paid to its insulation, and also to avoid the coccygeal branch. It issues more backward than the ischiatic, and more obliquely in that direction, whilst the former goes downward, or a little for- ward. The pudic nerve lies farther back than the arteiy, and the vein is covered by the artery. The pudic artery is on the spine, about two inches and three-quarters above the end of the tuberosity, and in a line back from the top of the troch- anter. It has been proposed, in cases of bleeding from the penis, to compress the artery on the spine, but this must always be uncertain, and can only be done, in any case, before it get beneath the ligament which defends it. In cases whei’e false aneurism has been punctured by mistake, as an abcess, it has unjustly been alleged that the operator wounded the artery, and caused the hemorrhage. A mus- cular branch may be cut, but if a common lancet have been employed, no trunk could be touched. The gluteus itself is, in ordinary subjects, near an inch thick; and granting that the disease were at first an abcess, the muscle must be raised from the issue of the vessel. Connected with this subject, I may notice ischiatic hernia, which can protrude at either margin of the pyriformis, but most likely at the upper, along with the gluteal arteiy. The neck of the sac may be situated five inches higher than the inferior margin of the gluteus maximus. If it protrude at the inferior margin, it is an inch less. Were an operation necessary, the division of the stricture should be made for- ward. Before proceeding to the lower part of the pelvis and penis, I merely notice the foramen thyroideum, and the relation of hernia thei'e. There is, properly speaking, no foramen, for a fascia covers the opening, and the vessels and nerves fill it. But when these are removed, we then see the size and direction of the opening. It is about half an inch long, but not quite so much broad at the broadest part. It is rather oval, and the long diameter is directed downward and backward. Its under margin is an inch below the brim