19 above the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage, and it is , mucli more easily effected than tracheotomy. The laryngeal apparatus is contained within the thyroid cartilage, for the ar}'tenoid cartilages rise little above its margin. If we slit up the thjToid cartilage in front, we then expose the glottis and its connexions, which are resting on, and partly contained within, the back part of the cricoid cartilage. An wound, then, above the margin of the thyroid cartilage, can only graze the arytenoid cartilages, unless the instrument be directed obliquely downward. Tlie trachea commences at the under margin of the cricoid cartilage, and descends for about four inches, before it divides, behind the arch of the aorta, into the two bronchi. Its com- position is peculiar and important. The anterior two-thirds, and the posterior third of the circumference, are different. The first consists of segments of cartilaginous rings, connected by strong fibrous membrane, which seems to split, and send a thin layer over each surface of the cartilages. The fibres run longitudinally. The second consists of transverse fibres, which are considered to be muscular, aud which are covered by the longitudinal fibrous membrane common to the whole circumference. The trachea is not circular, but somewhat like a horse-shoe, being flattened behind. The distance between the two ends of the cartilage is from five-eighths to three quarters of an inch. Tlie lateral diameter of the tube exter- nally is from three quarters of an inch to fully an inch, the antero-posterior diameter an eighth less. The internal diameter laterally, is from five-eighths to three quarters of an inch. The cartilaginous bands or rims are about an eighth of an inch broad, and in the relaxed state are almost in contact, but they can be stretched nearly an eighth of an inch from one another. The inner surface is lined by a mucous membrane, which is continued from the larynx down along the bronchi. Between the fibrous or ligamentous coat and the muscular coat behind, are minute secreting glands, so numerous as to form a conti- nuous coat. They send their small ducts through the mus- cular coat, and open on the inner surface of the mucous mem- biane. In the rest of the circumference, they are chiefly