32 cases happens, both in infancy and adult age, it comes to be a question wliether life may not be preserved by the opera- tion. Were the sole danger mechanical, we could easily give a most decided and unqualified opinion. But the danger does not proceed merely from the difficulty of breathing. The inflamed part is both delicate and important, and when inflamed, the system rapidly suffers, as in enteritis, &c. It is only in those cases where we believe, that could we prevent the additional, and no doubt perilous, evil of obstructed respi- ration, we might still be able to check the inflammation, and save the constitution, that we can propose an operation. It is not enough to say the patient must die if the operation be not performed, but we must be able to say that the operation, by relieving the breathing, shall so prolong life as to give a reasonable chance of the inflammation subsiding before the system be worn out. It is, indeed, a most important consider- ation, and, in the mere view that the system can better stand one than two evils, we should at once decide, in all cases not already moribund. But it is inflammation which is the source of danger, and the cause of the difficulty of breathing, for the lymphatic, or false membrane, as it is called, which was supposed to contract the passage, is not essential to the disease, and often does not exist. Now, the very operation tends to produce inflammation, and increase the original evil. The operation, then, must be limited in its benefits, and, in point of fact, has seldom succeeded. The cases most demand- ing it, and most likely to be benefited by it, are those where the system has not suffered greatly from the local inflamma- tion, the fever is not excessive, the breathing is not so perma- nently affected, but the great and urgent danger is from repeated and severe paroxysms of choking, whilst, in the intervals, the respiration is tolerably easy. These paroxysms are the prominent symptoms, and we dread, that, if the patient do not expire in one of them, they shall, at least, rapi^y exhaust the remaining strength. In that form of croup which I have elsewhere described, as attendant on aphthous sore tliroat, tlie operation has also been proposed, and has even