55 median line to its fellow. Along the anterior margin of these muscles, the genio-hyoidei run, their surfaces being at right angles to those of the genio-hyo-glossi. If we remove the mylo and genio-hyoidei, we see the anterior portion of these muscles running downward and backward, to be inserted into the os hyoides, between the origins of the hyo-glossi. The rest runs backward and upward, to be inserted into the tongue, and is hid within the hyo-glossi; on removing the latter, the whole of the former is exposed. When we remove the skin and fascia from the throat above the os hyoides, the first thing which calls our attention, is the obtuse angle formed by the two bellies of the digastric, in which we find lodged the submaxillary gland. The mus- cular sheet within the angle is formed by part of the mylo- hyoideus, and of the hyo-glossus, and of the constrictor medius. If we remove the former, we see the hyo-glossus. If we run the finger between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glossus, or separate the parts with the knife, we are led up to the membrane of the mouth between the tongue and the jaw-blade; on dividing which, we enter the cavity of the mouth. If we go on the outside of the mylo-hyoideus, we go between it and the jaw, and are stopt by the connexion of the one with the other. If we go on the inside of the hyo-glossus, we are led up to the under surface of the side of the tongue. When the muscles are dissected in situ, they are easily stretched, and the tongue seems more loosely attached to the os hyoides than it really is. But if the parts be insulated, we then find the root of the tongue to be in a manner identified with the os hyoides. The truth is, the tongue may be considered in two views. In the one, as made up of the prolongations of the muscles into its substance, and their combination with the peculiar texture of the tongue, and the muscular fibres which are intrinsic to it. In the other, as an organ distinct from the muscles going to it, and to which they are only attached. In this view, the muscles may be considered as intermedia bind- ing it to the os hyoides; and its root or base will be described as forming a segment of a circle accompanying the whole course of the os hyoides, till it join, at its sides, the superior constric-