58 Before, it is connected witli the angle and ramus of tlie jaw, up to the condyle, and from the peak or angle, is pro- longed both to the os hyoides and mastoid muscle, in a way soon to be noticed. It is strong and distinct near the angle, less so as we approach the condyle, and in some instances the upper half, or even more, is more like dense cellular sub- stance than membrane. The styloid process being more internal, that is, nearer the median line of the body than the ramus of the jaw, it is e^ddent that this expansion, going between the one and the other, must be oblique; for if it went straight back it should go to the mastoid process. It is also evident that, as the styloid process is placed downward and forward, at an angle with the ramus, this expansion ought to have its under margin angular also, and to have it exactly bounded by the stylo-hyoideus. This, however, is not always apparently the case, for the muscles below are covered with a layer, which may be confounded with them, particularly when that layer, or continuation, is denser and stronger than usual. Were it entire from the condyle down to the angle of the jaw, and the under margin of the digastric muscle, it is also evident that nothing could pass from the outside inward, or vice versa. But it is not dis- tinct or quite entire near the condyle, and we know that the external carotid artery passes out just above the digastric. Fifths I have traced this from the styloid process to the jaw, as affording the most correct idea of the expansion. But it will be useful to reverse the examination. We have seen that the platysmal fascia arises from the face. It firmly covers the parotid gland, but, even when this is removed, a thin layer is still found to cover the gland. We find that the masseter muscle is covered with a fascia, more or less distinct in different subjects. This, if we trace it from the neck upwards, is found to be a continuation of the myloid fascia, and vice versa. At the anterior margin of the gland it sepa- rates into two layers. A thin one goes over the gland under the platysmal fascia, another goes below the gland to the ramus, so that if we dissect off the gland from the muscle to the ramus, and then turn it back, we find it connected to the