385 have (lone so, by lacerating more freely tlie capsule, bands of which, may have been fixing one bone against another. The phalanges of the thumb and fingers, are connected by a fibrous capsule, and a lateral ligament at each side. The capsule is considered as deficient on the back part, where its place is supplied by the extensor tendons; at all events, if the capsule exist there, it is identified with the tendon. In dislocation, the lateral ligaments, if not quite torn, tie, by being stretched, the bulging head of the one bone against the neck of the other; and reduction can only be accom- plished, either, by extending, with so much force as to lace- rate completely these bands, or, by bending the finger, so as to roll the one head over the other. The arteries of the hand are the radial and the ulnar. At the wrist, both send off two small branches across, one before, the other behind, which anastomose with each other, and are named, the anterior and posterior, carpal arteries, of their respective trunks. The anterior, passes below the flexor tendons, the dorsal, which is larger, crosses beneath the extensor tendons, about the second row of the carpal bones. About the top of the carpal ligament, or perhaps a little higher, the superficialis volae is given off, which runs directly down, in the line which the trunk has been followinjr. It is bound by fascia, to the face of the ligament, and dips over, or through, the origin of the muscles of the thumb, to join the ulnar arch. An wound, deep enough to touch the front of the ligament here, must divide this branch, whilst the radial artery itself is safe, from having made its turn back- ward. The radial artery passes backward, under the styloid pro- cess of the radius, deep on the capsule and external lateral ligament, and covered by the tendons of the extensors of the thumb, in some cases even by that of the extensor radialis longior. It goes, bound by fascia, between the end of the metacarpal bones of the thumb and forefinger, in a separa- tion between the^^o origins of the abductor indicis. It then turns into the palm, very deep, between the abductor pollicis II. 2 c