from the submaxillary gland. This inner lining of the gland, is generally distinct, till we come up to the posterior belly of the digastric, where it is little more than cellular sub- stance, and higher, it is entirely cellular. Immediately above the digastric, the gland, with this thin cellular continuation, rests on the styloid expansion, which may, therefore, up to the styloid process, be considered as a posterior defence, or partial capsule to the gland; and as this is inserted into the ramus of the jaw, up to near its neck, it will shut out the gland from all communication with the mouth, or pterygoid and pharyngeal muscles. Thus, the gland rests on a layer of fascia, all the way forward, to the ramus. Next, let us at- tend to that portion which is before the ramus, on the mas- seter muscle. We find that a thin masseteric fascia, or layer, extends between the muscle and the gland, all the way back to the ramus, adhering to the muscle, and then reflected forward, along the under surface of the gland, but sometimes this is not distinct, and only one layer is found, adhering more to the gland, than to the muscle. When we dissect off the gland to the ramus, and turn it back, this layer is turned back with it, but is fixed at the ramus. We throw back it and the gland, like the leaf of a book, and feel, behind the angle of reflection of this fascia, the carotid artery, or, if we cut the attachment of the fascia to the ramus, the artery is then dis- covered, lying between the gland, and the styloid expansion, for it does not enter into the substance of the gland, till about three quarters of an inch above the angle of the jaw. Up, then, to this part, and to where the styloid expansion, in any indi- vidual, terminates, we have the gland, in its natural state, shut out from immediate contact with important parts. Near the condyle, and about the neck of the bone, it is less definite, adheres more strongly to the neighbouring parts, and adapts its shape to them. The internal maxillary artery passes for- ward here, and, for a very little way, a portion of gland accompanies it. At first sight, we should say that it went on with it, but it is only little packets of cellular substance. Still, it must be recollected, that when enlarged, the gland may go in this direction.