312 of the belly of the muscle. Both heads, at first, are interposed between the deltoid muscle and the teres major. The secun- dus, may also be partly seen, from the inside of the arm, by turning back, there, the longus. It is more or less obliquely covered by the longus, till the point of their union or iden- tification. The third head or brevis, rises from the shaft of the bone at the inside of the bicepital groove, just below the insertion of the latissimus dorsi. It passes down between the longus, and also the secundus, and the bone, connected to the first by cellular substance, till near six inches below the neck of the bone, when the two are identified, the union com- mencing by tendinous substance. It unites with the secun- dus, a little higher. In some cases, there is only a cellular connexion with the other heads, till near the elbow joint. It forms, in its whole course, the deep layer of flesh on the back of the bone. The longus hides it almost entirely, as far out on the inner part of the arm, as the great vessels and nerves. Even when these are removed, only a narrow portion of the brevis is seen toward the biceps. Nearer the elbow joint, only part of the brachieus is seen between the margin of the triceps and biceps. When we remove the strong fascia of the arm, which covers the triceps, we see the back of the arm fleshy, with tendinous fibres on its surface, at the upper and inner part. When we descend to about four inches above the olecranon, we observe the broad tendon of the triceps appearing. At two inches above its insertion, it is about an inch and a quarter broad, flanked on the inside by a continuation of the muscular fibres of the longus, forming a band nearly an inch and a half broad, which goes down to the olecranon, along its side, and is also connected by aponeurosis to the back of the inner condyle, reaching to the origin of the flexor ulnaris. On the outside, the tendon is flanked by a strip, from the secun- dus, of muscular substance, a quarter of an inch broad, con- nected also with the olecranon and outer condyle, and marching with the anconeus. All these parts are covered by firm aponeurosis. The tendon of the triceps begins about half way up the arm, both from the longus and secundus, but i