445 ful, by mixing salt with the ice, and a shorter application suffices. I distinctly say, that no good can be derived unless we cool the parts within, so as to lessen greatly their elasti- city. The resisting parts are also acted on, but we chiefly look to the effect on the contents. If ice cannot be procured, solutions, generally described, may be employ- ed. The exhibition of tobacco, as a clyster, produces great depression and faintness, such as may be supposed to bring the system, and the parts, into a state as nearly similar to that of death as can safely be done; and if this remedy be combined, so as to act when the cold has produced its full effect, we should expect as much benefit as art can procure. But no means can bring the muscular and fibrous textures, into the same state during life as after death, otherwise we should scai’cely fail in reducing hernia and dislocations. The means used are, also, not so effectual, in cases where the stricture is greatly dependent on inflammatory contraction of the neck of the sac. Two causes of the fatality of the operation are, injudicious and painful, attempts to reduce—and procrastination. I believe, if surgeons went into the opposite extreme, and operated in all cases, including those which might have been reduced, fewer lives should be lost. Without going to this extravagant degree, I would strongly advise an early ope- ration, in place of persevering and fruitless attempts to reduce. I omit many particulars connected with the history of hernia, referring to works professedly on the subject; and do not give a minute description of the operation from beginning to end. Our object is, to enlarge the stricture, and a subordinate one, is to be able to act with the finger directly on individual portions of the intestines, seriatim; at least, this is sometimes necessary. In the first and essential view, we should say that, were we sure of the state of the intestine, it would be sufficient to make a small incision over the stricture, and cut it, even, without opening the sac, unless we ascer- tained that the stricture was resident in its orifice. This has been very explicitly advised by Sir Astley Cooper, who.