92 the face of the carotid, gives off its thyroid ramus. The tfiy- roid vein comes up to the internal jugular, and often joins the lingual. In other cases, the lingual itself crosses the artery more than half an inch above the bifurcation. The lingual artery comes off either separately, or by a trunk common to it, and the facial, about a quarter of an inch above the bifurca- tion ; and in the latter case, the common trunk is nearly as large as the carotid, and runs up parallel to it for some way. If the facial come off separately, it is a little higher. Then we have to attend to the occipital and pharyngeal arteries running parallel to the trunk, and the internal carotid and internal jugular vein are not to be overlooked. From this view of the parts, it is quite evident that no part of the external carotid, up to the digastric muscle, is insulated from important parts. We could, indeed, by raising the lower part of the parotid gland a little, and drawing down the digastric and stylo-hyoideus, expose the artery higher, but even there it is connected with accompanying veins. Two branches often lie obliquely before it, and one partially over it. About this place also, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve lies on its inside, interposed between it and the stylo-pharyngeus. Were it perfectly easy to tie it, still the operation, in most cases, would be useless, for the ligature is applied above the facial artery, and the anastomoses, in all probability, would keep up the circulation sufficiently to render the effect, of the high ligature, in restraining haemorrhage very doubtful. If, next, we revert to the portion below the digastric, we must, for the same reason, confine our operation to the spot below the origin of the facial artery. The greatest space of the external carotid which may be tied is that between the thy- roid and lingual arteries, or about three-tenths of an inch, and, there, the artery is covered with veins, and traversed also by nerves; yet, on the whole, it is the best place to tie it. When the facial comes olf high, as, for instance, at the angle of the jaw, then the external carotid is more easily tied, and the best place would be between the origin of the lingual and facial, and the interval is sometimes half an inch, or even more. The artery is accompanied, but not often covered, by