533 chiefly in cases of compound fracture, that we can be called on to tie it. It is not necessary to give directions for exposing the tibialis antica, on the dorsum of the foot, as it, if wounded, should be tied in the wound. Its course has been de- scribed. A handbreadth above the ankle, it is exposed, by making an incision, between two and three inches long, close by the outer margin of the tendon of the tibialis anticus. This is about three-eighths of an inch broad, and consequently we cut, at that distance, outward from the ridge of the bone. The tendon is seen for fully four inches above the ankle. Slitting up the aponeurosis, there, a thin cellular line may be discovered, between it and that of the extensor pollicis, which is visible for two, or two and a half, inches above the ankle. These tendons are to be separated, and the detachment completed down to the interosseous ligament, by the handle of the scalpel. Pressing the two muscles asunder, the nerve is seen either on the front, or to the fibu- lar side of the artery. Putting it cautiously aside, should it be on the front, we see two veins, close by the margin of the artery, or perhaps overlapping it. These are to be drawn in opposite directions, when the artery is exposed, and can be insulated. It is about five-eighths of an inch deep from the shin, or aponeurosis of the muscle. In this operation, we must be careful to keep close by the tendon of the tibialis, for if we mistake that of the extensor pollicis for it, we miss the artery altogether, by going between that muscle and the extensor digitorum. The tendon of the former is superficial, or visible, for from two to four inches above the ankle. Soon after that, the muscle sinks dowVi. In the lower part of the middle third, or belovv the middle, the tibialis anticus scarcely shows any admixture of tendinous substance. An incision three inches long, is to be made in the line described (page 501,) or, in a slender leg, in the course of a thread, one end of which is placed on the outer margin of the tendon of the tibialis, or a very little beyond it at the ankle, and the other on the front, or a little on the outside.