479 margin is sometimes only one inch and three-quarters from that point; in other instances, two inches and three-tenths; but, generally, two inches. In the female, it varies from one inch and a quarter to two inches; but, generally, it is one inch and three-quarters. There is seldom any difference between the two sides ; but, when there is, the distance seems to be greatest on the left. If we go nearly a quarter of an inch farther out, we get on the front of the artery, and a perpendicular line from this, which goes to the front of the inner condyle, will indicate very nearly its course down to the point where it winds into the ham. It inclines gradually back- ward as it descends, so that it is most superficial at the upper part. It lies on the psoas, bounded without by the iliaciis, within by the pectineus. If the psoas be not broad, it may rest partly on the face of the pubis. The vein is interposed be- tween the artery and the outer margin of the pectineus. The iliacus soon begins to wind inward, and then the artery is, for a very short space, on it; next, it is on the pectineus, till nearly four inches below the ligament; then it is on the triceps longus; and, lastly, for about an inch and a half, on the magnus. In this tract, it is lodged and bound down in an angle between these muscles and the vastus internus. A firm fascia passes, as we have seen (page 462), under the vessels, from the vastus, over the adductor, &c., binding them together. A more superficial layer, from the rectus and vastus, and under surface of the sartorius, to the pectineus and tri- ceps, passes over the vessels, which thus are enclosed, as it were, in a sheath. This, however, does not begin at Pou- part’s ligament, but generally a little below, where the sarto- rius begins to cross the artery, sometimes about three inches, or even a little higher, sometimes not till fully five below the ligament. Till then the artery is enclosed only in its proper sheath, not very strong here, and covered by a layer, not of fascia, but of cellular substance. For about three-quarters of an inch below the ligament, it is overhung by the falci- form process, though this chiefly rests on the vein. The entrance under the layer of fascia is sometimes indistinct;.