When we talk of the artery emerging from the hyo-glossus, it is not meant that it is quite bare, on the contrary, it immedi- ately is hid between the genio-hyo-glossus and the lingualis. If, from the inside of the mouth, we cut the mucous mem- brane at the sides of the frenum, and a little farther back, we shall come on the submaxillary duct, and fifth nerve, and may find the ranine artery, and ninth nerve, in the substance of the tongue. The artery may also be exposed, as it comes out from the hyo-glossus, by cutting through the mylo-hyoid- eus, and dissecting up along the surface of the genio-hyoideus, till we come to the proper substance of the tongue, but this we should scarcely contemplate. The actual cautery conveyed through a canula, can always stop the bleeding. It is also sometimes practicable to tie the artery where it is divided. Along with the duct, there runs from the lingual artery, at the h3m-glossus, the sublingual, to the gland of that name. This often, however, comes off, in the submaxillary gland, from the facial, and, in that case, is large and runs along with a vein, under the side of the tongue, with a prolongation of the gland, more inward, and a little higher than the duct. When a tumour or ulcerated portion is to be removed, at the margin of the tongue, it may be done by fixing and drawing it forward, as already mentioned, and then cutting it away, or, in certain cases, it has been proposed to remove it by an an- gular incision, and then by stitches, to retain the cut surfaces in contact. At a very little behind the frenum, the artery is about three quarter's of an inch, from the margin of the tongue. The ligature has been proposed, as being less formidable, and unattended with haemorrhage, unless the ranine artery be pricked. The pain, however, is great, and if the fifth nerve be included, it is extreme. This nerve, after coming out from between the pterygoidei muscles, reaches the tongue, nearly about the anterior pillar of the fauces, and not fiir from this, the glosso-pharyngeus also enters it, and is distri- buted into the substance, at the base, whilst the fifth proceeds along the under surface of the tongue, at the angle formed , by it, and the mucous membrane, reflected off toward the jaw. On reaching the tongue, it splits, and forms a lash of branches.