420 may be formed. At the upper margin of the gland, and lower down, a similar layer passes off from its apex, and from the membranous part of the urethra, and becomes identified with the first—so that the gland, urethra, and rectum, are bound together by these at the sides, and, in their course, by dense cellular substance. If matter form here, it may be circumscribed. From the back of the bladder, a reflection of the fascia also goes off within the lateral folds of the peritonaeal cul de sac, strengthening it. The vesical fascia, furnished by the pelvis, passes off a little lower than the reflection of the perito- naeum, both directly backward to the rectum, and also at the sides, forming lateral folds within the peritonaeal sides of the cul de sac, strengthening it, and fixing the two viscera more firmly together. The layer turns down on the face of the rectum, covering it thinly, so that, before any thing can be foi’ced up between the two, this reflection must be torn. We have, also, to remember, that, whilst this layer is given off, the main continuation of the vesical fascia goes down on the gland and membranous part of the urethra, sending off, at their margins, a layer to fix them to the rectum, and losing itself in the continuation of the fascia reflected from above; so that, not only have we the parts connected, by the cellular onion of the vesical and prostatic fascia, with the reflection, on the face of the rectum, but we may, if matter form there, have it thus circumscribed between the two. I have, in this account, traced the fascia from the bladder downward; but it, as formerly seen, may be traced from the sides of the pelvis to the bladder, gland, &c. Removing the rectum and peritonaeum, we see some im- portant parts connected with the bladder and gland—namely, the ureters, vasa deferentia, and vesiculae semenales. The ureter meets the bladder, in the distended state, about an inch above the margin of the cul de sac, not at the side, but at the latero-posterior part. It runs downward, but still more forward, for an inch and a half, under the peri- tonaeum, and covered by the fascia, which binds it to the bladder, which it enters obliquely, about an inch, or an inch and a half, backward, and a little upward, from the gland.