193 partly to perish, and be thrown off, if the patient survive, but generally he dies of phthisis laryngea. If the wound go to the back part of the larynx, as that forms the anterior boundary of the pharynx, we can easily see why fluids attempted to be swallowed, should come out by the wound, although, strictly speaking, the division have been confined to the larynx. Even when the posterior part, or base, of the arytenoid, or top of the cricoid cartilage, has not been gone through, the glot- tis may not be able to do its duty, and exclude liquid. When the wound is inflicted, in the crico-thyroid space, the muscles already noticed are divided. The gland escapes,unless the incision go to the side of the cartilage. If the instrument be not sharp, and the cartilage very hard, little more than the crico-thyroid membrane is cut, for, the cricoid, rising up within the thyroid cartilage, resists the knife backward. But, it may pass over the cartilage, and down on the carotid artery. The larynx is opened, more or less below the vocal ligament, ac- cording to the length of the thyroid cartilage, but they, at all events, escape. But, although the cricoid cartilage, when hard, resist the knife, yet, it is not in general difficult to divide it, although in some parts it be a quarter of an inch thick. More resistance is afforded, by the inferior thyroid horn, which is often ossified. If we go directly back, about a quarter of an inch of the horn will be cut off, and left connected to the cricoid cartilage, which is divided behind between the ary- tenoideus posticus and oesophagus, and the recurrent nerve is cut, on one or both sides. The oesophagus, begins to rise from the extremity of the cricoid cartilage, just where the arytenoideus ends. An wound here, then opens, not into that tube, but into the very termination of the pharynx. It is scarcely possible for such an wound to be inflicted, without, at the same time, dividing the carotid. This artery can only escape, if the instrument be sunk down in the median line, and opportunely raised at the sides. If razor-shaped and drawn rather slowly across, it is possible, if the extremity be sunk, as it is passing the middle of the throat, that the weight of the parts below, might push forward the cartilage, already half divided, and make the back part a little more superficial. II. o