78 seven-tenths above the clavicle. In the other, a long-necked male, the upper margin crossed three inches and four-tenths, and the under, two and seven-tenths above the clavicle. It is sufficient that the surgeon be prepared to meet, in some of his operations, a muscular sheet, for he can easily, without divid- ing it, draw one or other of the margins aside, so as to get at the artery. I must next mention that the artery and veins are covered, besides, by an expansion of the deep fascia, and we cannot expose the proper sheath of the vessel till that be cautiously cut through. The common carotid is very constant in its relations. It runs up just by the side of the trachea and cartilages, oeso- phagus, and lower part of the pharynx. On the left side, it even lies on the very side or margin of the oesophagus. The jugular vein, at the lower part, is also closer to it than on the right side. On both sides it may be a little overlapped by the thyroid gland, and in both it lies in contact with the larynx and trachea. Its course is slightly oblique, bending a very little outward and also backward, for it is nearer the verte- brae in its course than immediately at its origin. It rests on the lateral part of the face of the bodies of the vertebrae, with the longus colli, sympathetic nerve, and fascia intervening. The internal jugular vein runs just by its outer margin, and, if much distended, even overlaps it a little. Each vessel has its own proper sheath, but, besides that, both are enveloped in a common cellular covering, like a sheath, and they are farther covered and fixed down by the deep cervical fascia, which extends over them from the trachea, larynx, and tube behind, to the transverse processes of the vertebrse. Between the artery and vein, contained in the common thin sheath, is the par vagum, or pneumo-gastric nerve, attached more to the vein than to the arteiy, and often hid by the vein when that is distended. About the ci'icoid cartilage a cardiac branch of this nerve comes off, and also runs down along the parent trunk, between it and the arterial sheath. This is most distinct on the right side. The sympathetic nerve runs down just behind the artery, which may be said to rest on it. It is behind the sheath of the artery, on the longus colli, in