327 the biceps, at the outside of the median, and sometimes has, at the middle of the arm, the internal cutaneous nerve on its face. Two small venae comites accompany it, one on each side. The ulnar artery is more internal, sometimes consid- erably so, and rather deeper, with the median nerve on its face. The brachial vein is to its inside, and two comites attend it. It gives olF the profunda, and other branches emanating from the humeral artery. This distribution some- times exists in both arms of the same individual. If we find the supposed humeral artery to be more superficial than usual, or, in any way, different from its usual relation, we ought, before tying it, to ascertain the effect on the tumour or circu- lation, by pressing the vessel, where we intend to place the ligature. There is, however, sometimes at the elbow joint, a direct communication between the two arteries, the united trunk giving off the radial, and then passing down in the proper course of the ulnar. In this, or in any other modifi- cation of reunion, it is clear, that in aneurism at the bend of the arm, tying either artery, in the arm, could do no good: the aneurismal tumour would still be freely supplied, unless both arteries were tied, nor would this be more dangerous than the ligature of the brachial artery in ordinary cases. Sometimes the interossea comes off high in the arm, and runs down by the inside of the brachial artery. If we have occasion to tie the brachial artery, we would, if we had our choice, prefer doing it a little lower than the middle of the arm, so as to preserve the benefit of the pro- funda inferior. The origin of the ramus anastomoticus is so uncertain, and often so near the joint, and it is so little necessary to the success of the operation, so far as the main- tenance of the circulation is concerned, that we ought not to pay any attention to it. The course of the artery, and line of the margin of the biceps, have already been described. Close by that margin, and parallel to it, we make an incision of about two inches long, or, in fat people, half an inch more. This exposes the aponeurosis of the arm, which is to be cautiously divided, so, as distinctly to show the margin of the biceps, when the nerves and vessels, imbedded in cellular