41.6 if the neck of the sac be contracted, advises that it should, in like manner, be divided; and I believe that this will be oftener necessary than many suppose. The external incision ought to commence at the upper orifice of the canal, and is to be carried down so far as to expose just as much of the hernia as enables us to operate freely. There is no necessity, in a large hernia, to go to its extremity. The external pudic artery is cut in this incision. Next, we divide the fascia propria and cremaster, from the external aperture, downward, which is best done by cutting, cautiously and seriatim, at one point, till we come to the sac, when, on a director, we can enlarge the opening. The sac is next to be opened, near midway between the extremities of the external incision, or at least, an inch below the ring. We take hold of its front by dissecting forceps, and pull it forward, so that we can shave off as much as admits a director. If we have slit up the fascia and cremaster to the ring, we can hardly mistake any cellular layer for the sac, nor can we mistake it for intestine. The sac is rougher, though distinctly like a serous mem- brane, and its vessels, though they may be numerous, and make the membrane red, yet are irregular, whilst the intes- tine is more polished, and, however red it may be, its vessels run more in one direction, ramifying across it, if much be seen. The director being inserted in close contact with the sac, we slit upward a little way, and downward so far as enables us to introduce the finger, and feel the state of matters at the top. If the stricture be at the inferior aperture, w'e do not find it necessary to enlarge the incision in the sac. If it be, as usual, higher, w’e may find it ne- cessary to divide the sac a little farther up, for we must be able to touch the stricture easily with the finger. We have one main object in opening the sac—namely, to get to the stricture and relieve it. There can, in ordinary and favourable cases, be no possible advantage in opening the sac from top to bottom, or doing more than enabling us to operate readily on the stricture. We must do this effectually ; more, adds uselessly, to the I’isk of inflammation. If the stricture be at the external aperture, or ring, we introduce a director under