anterior portion of the gluteus medius, in that case, may cause it; and it ought also to be more likely to occur, in proportion as the trochanter is carried backward. Circum- stances, connected with the fracture and its obliquity, may have an influence. I have just been favoured with a prepa- ration of extra-capsular fracture, taken from a woman, who died a few days after the injury, which was produced by a fall, when drunk. The limb was greatly shortened, and the toes turned in, so as to resemble a dislocation on the dorsum ilii. The neck was broken across at its root, the posterior part of the trochanter major was broken off*, and the minor, also, detached, and drawn upward and forward. Part of the gluteus medius and minimus was attached to the separated portion of the great trochanter, and also to that which remained connected with the shaft. The quadratus, pyri- formis, &c., were attached to the posterior portion, which was broken oiF, and this explains the case. The treatment must be regulated by our object and ex- pectation. In extra-capsular fracture, we wish to have the limb properly extended, and the surfaces also kept in con- tact by circular pressure, at the same time that we enjoin a state of rest. But, in intra-capsular fracture, we cannot expect ossific union. At the most, we look for a cartilagi- nous intermedium ; but, principally, we trust to a new state of the joint, a thickening and strengthening of the capsule, and shortening of the neck—a production of ligamentous bands, perhaps some irregular deposition of bone. Our object here, is to keep the parts quiet, allay inflammation or disturbance of the process, and obviate, as far as can gently be done, great retraction of the muscles. The patient is, generally, elderly, and often frail. If the plan recommended in the first case give no pain, there can be no objection to adopt it; but, generally speaking, the milder method, pro- posed by Sir Astley Cooper, of slight flexion of the knee, over a pillow, like a double inclined plane, will be the best. Rest should be enjoined, till the parts are no longer so tender as to suffer from motion ; then the patient may rise, and sit for some hours on a high seat, with a sloping support