115 blisters to the head, or tartar emetic ointment to the scalp; mercury, copper, sulphate of quinine, and antispasmodics, but without much benefit. Laxatives, varied according to their operation, with a combination of musk and sulphate of qui- nine, have appeared to enable the disease to wear itself out, better than any other medicine. The diet should be light, but nourishing. Wine, if relished, does no harm'. A pru- dent and watchful nurse may take advantage of many circum- stances to accelerate the cure; and every day, the patient should, when the cure has begun, be kept longer up. In shght affections, the patient only becomes insensible, or as if abstracted and asleep; yet able to stand or even walk. Many cases of chorea depend on this state of the spinal cord, sometimes induced, sometimes kept up, by tlie state of the ali- mentary canal. It is quite a mistake, however, that even, in all those cases which are relieved by purgatives, the immediate cause is in the conchtion of the bowels; for these remedies may influence, and that materially, the condition of the cord. In many cases, also, where the symptoms indicate, even in a marked manner, an affection of the cord, the real seat of disease is in the base of the cerebellum, acting on the medidla oblongata. I have, for instance, seen a patient first affected \vith chorea, then with severe pain m the extremities, sliiftmg from place to place, and attended with tenderness in different parts of the spine successively. By issues, and local applications, these have been almost removed for a time; but then other symptoms appeared, giddiness, blindness, universal paralysis from the head downward, with a pulse either unusually slow, or too frequent. Little appeared wrong in the spinal cord, excepting some serous effusion within the sheath; but the tuber annulare was converted into a firm tumour, and water was found in the ventricles. There can be no doubt, that, although the symptoms at first indicated an affection of the medulla spinalis, yet the primary disease was in the tuber annulare. •Sometimes catalepsy is caused by the state of the spinal cord. The most remai'kable instance of this I ever saw, suc- ceeded to a fall. There was no evidence, at the time, that the