353 flexor sublimis, flanked by the flexor ulnaris. The flexor radialis and pronator, have a common origin, and, for a time, the same direction, hut within two inches below the joint, the former overlaps the latter, which gets deeper. About the middle of the arm, we have, at the outside, the narrow part of the supinator, skirted by the extensor i*adialis. Then, going inward, we have the flexor radialis, becoming now narrower and more tendinous, with its ulnar margin almost in the median line, perhaps, a little nearer the radius. From that, to the inner margin, formed by the flexor ulnaris, we have a considerable part of the surface of the flexor sublimis, with the tendon of the palmaris on it, to the ulnar side of the flexor radialis. Sometimes, the palmaris does not rise as described, hut is a thin, tolerably broad, fasciculus of the !, flexor sublimis, only to he distinguished from it, by its inser- 1 tion. At the upper part of the lower third, we have, at the outside, the tendon of the supinator, between which, and that of the flexor radialis, is seen part of the flexor sublimis, in a space, perhaps half an inch broad, whilst, to the inside of that tendon, between it, and the tendon and muscular fibres of the ' flexor ulnaris, in a space less than an inch broad, is seen more of the flexor sublimis, with the tendon of the palmaris. At the wrist, we have, at the root of the thumb, the insertion of the supinator into the radius; then, on a line with the fleshy hall of the thumb, is the tendon of the flexor radialis. At the inside, in a line up from between the little and ring fingers, is the tendon of the flexor ulnaris, wdiilst, in the intermediate space, are those of the flexor sublimis, and that of the palmaris. If, in order to observe the deeper parts, we 1I10W cut through the flexor radialis, palmaris, and pronator, and turn their opposite ends up and down, as well as we can, we see the flexor sublimis, flanked by the supinator longus and flexor ulnaris. If we draw the former outward, we r display the front of the supinator brevis, and can trace the I flexor digitorum sublimis, which rises by two heads; the t innermost, thick and large, from the inner condyle, united to . t the flexor radialis and pronator, hut deeper, being covered 3 1 by them; the outermost, thinner, and deeper, from the root II- 2a.