104 wounded, if sharp-pointed scissors be directed toward tlie under surface of the tongue, and particularly if the operator be not on his guard against any sudden motion of the child, or the person who is holding him. The ranular vein here lies close by the outside of the artery, and a little more superficial. The artery is here very close upon the median line of the tongue, and in its substance. The sublingual branch is smaller, and passes forward on the surface of the genio-hyo-glossus all the way to the chin, between that muscle and the mylo-hyoideus. It supplies the sublingual gland and the neighbouring muscles. If traced from the trunk, it seems to run straight forward on the surface of the genio-hyo-glossus, whilst the ranine bends upward a little, and then runs forward. The sublingual and the nerve, are first seen in the dissection, and the ranine is more involved in the substance of the genio-hyo-glossus; but even when it is most involved, if we cut the substance upward a little, we expose the artery. The Facial artery is variable in its origin, but generally it comes off either just as the carotid is passing within the digas- tric, or very soon after that, and nearly in a line with the peak of the angle of the jaw. It is, therefore, very deep at its origin, being there from three quarters of, to nearly, an inch, inward, from the peak. It appears at the upper margin of the stylo- hyoideus, and passes forward, and a little downward, to the back of the submaxillary gland, sometimes loosely imbedded in cellular substance, but often, in this pai’t of its course, connected to the inner margin of tlie jaw, or extremity of the pterygoideus, by fibrous substance sent off from the masse- teric fascia, or, it is conducted to the gland by a duplica- ture of the cervical fascia. Its origin is about half an inch above that of the lingual, but sometimes it is less, and then it runs up in front of the external carotid, but soon divaricates forward, though it pass with it within the digastric. Where it comes off by a common trunk with the lingual, it gene- rally passes also within the digastric. The lingual nerve, in its descent, very often crosses the origin of the artery. The artery, after emerging from within the muscle, comes down-