519 sole; but the one chiefly affected, is the gastrocnemius. It has therefore been proposed to divide its tendon, by a slender bistoury introduced under the skin, and then by suitable apparatus to keep up extension, and bring the foot ultimately into the proper position and shape. The tendon unites by an intermediate substance, and in proportion as the deformity is rectified, the belly of the muscle improves. Cures have been accomplished, without dividing the tibialis posticus. It is not yet decided at what period this operation must cease to be useful, but certainly we should not think of resorting to it in infancy, or at an early age, when apparatus may be effec- tual. If this fail, then with propriety we resort to it. As it is sometimes necessary to remove part of the foot at the articulations, it is requisite to know their I'elative position, and how they are best found. If we wish to remove the foot at the extremities of the astragalus and os calcis, we shall find that of the former, with the naviculare, about three-fourths of an inch before the end of the tibia. At the inside, we discover with the finger, a projection on the side of the navi- culare, and the junction is just above, that is, tibial of that. If we press on the side of the sole, at the outer margin, we perceive a projection of the cuboides, and the articulation of the os calcis, is just to the tibial surface of that. To ampu- tate here, we may either make an incision obliquely round the whole foot, so as to leave a greater length in the sole, than on the dorsum, or a transverse incision on the dorsum, and a flap in the sole. If we choose the latter mode, we make, with a very short knife, the transverse incision, fully an inch before the end of the tibia. We do not begin ex- actly at the sole, nor make the incision perpendicular at the inside, but commence a little above the sole, below the front of the inner ankle, so that this extremity is inclined obliquely backward. At the outside, the foot being thinner, we go very near the sole, about an inch before the front of the outer ankle. We wish to leave as much skin as shall overlap the margin of the bone. The flap in the sole, is made by cutting across the skin at a right angle to the surface, so that the margin, or skin, shall not be thin and slanting. We cut