175 although it has been asserted that the eighth might be divided with impunity. The plan of dissecting the tumour partially, and then including the rest in a ligature, single or double, can only be adopted, when no nerves are concerned. It must also be recollected, that sometimes the vertebral artery comes off directly from the aorta, and runs up behind the carotid, or scarcely more outward, for a considerable way; and even when it arises naturally, it may run for two inches in that direction, and require attention. If we require to expose and tie the carotid on the left side, near the clavicle, we must remember that it is deeper at that part than on the right. The subclavian is scarcely in our way; for although it be almost in contact with the carotid at its outside, and a little behind, yet it scarcely rises above the margin of the clavicle. But we must recollect the course of the thoracic duct (p. 79). When any of the deep glands suppurate, whether quickly or slowly, the matter should be immediately let out; for being covered by firm fascia, and also by muscles, unless these have separated, the matter is apt to go in a dangerous direction. It has been known to burst into the trachea, and the consequence of this may be either instantly or remotely fatal. The abscess may thus contain pus and air, and if any part of its parietes gives way, emphysema takes place. Such tumours may readily be mistaken for aneurism. They may also press on the oesopha- gus, and burst into it, or remaining hard, they cause a species of constriction of the gullet, for there are glands close by the side of the gullet, and of the trachea, under the recurrent nerve, and when these swell that nerve may be involved. Thus the bi’eathing, as well as deglutition, may be affected. Glands lie in front of the trachea, under the muscles, above, and also within the sternum. When these swell, they cannot, at least for a time, form much external projection, but will rather extend downward or laterally. It is very rare, how- ever, that they require extirpation, as they most frequently either increase so slowly, as to give little inconvenience by pressure, or they slowly suppurate. In the last case, an opening should be made early, otherwise the matter may