10 between the spinous and transverse processes. But even this mass has, by scholastic anatomists, been separated into a deeper and a more superficial layer, the first, or imiermost, being called the midtifidus spinae, the second the semispinalis colli. After all these have been removed, there yet remain the small indi- vidual muscles going between the processes of the different vertebrae. If we run the finger, from the levator, forward toward the trachea, we shall find the groundwork of the expansion near the thorax, to be formed by the scaleni muscles, which are of much importance to the surgeon. These form an angular mass, the base of which being toward the rib, fills up, in part, the hollow under the trapezius. This mass has been divided into two, sometimes three, or more portions, or sepa- rate muscles, but it is sufficient to distinguish an anterior and posterior. The levator scapulm and scalenus posticus are' in contact intimately for a considerable way down, but the thickest part of the scalenus comes to rest on the splenius. The upper portion of the serratus anticus is connected with both the levator and scalenus. If the finger be thrust between the two muscles, after they have been somewhat separated, it will be led down by the one to the scapula, and by the other to the back of the rib. Postponing the consideration of the relation and position of the first rib ■ till another time, I proceed to notice the exact situation of one or two of the deep muscles, and par- ticularly of the scalenus anticus, which is of great import- ance to the surgeon. This arises from the first rib, a little way from its union with the sternum, and within the clavicle. The oriffin is flat and tendinous, has a firm hold of the O upper mai’gin of the rib, and is prolonged for someway do^vn its face. In a full-sized adult, lying on his back, the inner or stei’nal margin, at the rib, will be touched by a probe, or line, di’opped perpendicularly from the clavicle, at a point about three quarters of an inch from the sterno-clavi- cular articulation, or one inch from the side of tlie trachea. Its outer raai’gin corresponds to a line dropped perpendi- cidarly at an inch and a half from the articulation. The