342 on the head of the radius. This, generally, is pretty much identified with the more superficial, or larger portion, which uses high, by two tongues, one on each side of the insertion of the deltoid muscle. Ilut, sometimes, it can be separated as a distinct layer, rising, much lower, from the bone and face of the intermuscular ligament, adhering also, intimately, to the front of the capsule, and inserted by a thin broad tendon, covered by that of the other portion. There is, at the out- side, a kind of sulcus, or angle, between the two portions, on which, or, partly in it and partly on this deep fasciculus, the tendon of the biceps is lodged. At the inside, it extends to nearly half an inch of the margin of the condyle, and is traversed obliquely downward and outward, by the deep tendinous origin of the flexor radialis, to which it is connected by fascia. Dislocation of the elbow may take place, in two degrees. In the first, the coronoid process is placed in the hollow, at the back part of the articulating trochlea. In the second, or greatest, it is lodged in the sigmoid cavity. The head of the radius is higher or lower, in these, on the back of the condyle. We recognise either of these, by the altered relation of the bones, which should be compared with that of the sound side. The fore-arm cannot be fully extended, nor completely bent, is sometimes a little twisted, and, especially if the soft parts be swelled, the general aspect as that of a diseased elbow joint. The end of the olecranon, is higher than a line drawn, transversely, from the one condyle to the other, and it is also farther back from the peak of the external condyle. It is highest in the greatest degree of luxation. If the capsule, and ligament be freely torn, the mobility is greatest, and if the patient be seen immediately after the accident, and before the muscles have recovered their tone, the bones are sometimes replaced, in the mere act of examination. If the posterior part of the capsule remain entire, as is generally the case, no power can fully bend the fore-arm, without first tearing that. If the anterior portion be quite torn, and the brachieus do not resist, the fore-arm may be considerably, sometimes entirely, extended; but even then, from the position of the