^298 resembling a cake of thick firm whitish substance, in which, when cut, we see divided ducts, but scarcely, even with a glass, any appearance of acini. In old age, we have little but the two sheets of fascia, enclosing between them, a layer of dense, cellular looking substance, in which, we see numerous ducts, probably large, of a knotted appearance, running in a radiated direction, from the nipple to the circumference. It is in those who have lately nursed, but, still better, in those who are nursing, that we distinctly see the structure of the breast. In them, especially the latter, we, on making a section of the breast, find it to have an agglomerated appearance, like a multitude of millet seeds, the colour, sometimes reddish, but usually white, and rising from these, we observe many ducts. If we inject these ducts from the nipple, we findi that there may be twelve or fifteen, each ramifying and subdivid- ing, till the small branches end in acini, resembling curls of the duct. If we reverse the matter, and trace the branches from the acini, we see them uniting irregularly, so as to form a mesh-work, like the frame of a rustic chair, and the duct, at last, formed by their union near the nipple, sometimes dilates into what is called a sinus. Each duct, if injected, only fills a certain number of acini all the way to the circumfer- ence, and these compartments, belonging to the individual ducts, have been called lobes; but unless we inject the ducts with different colours, we can see no distinct boundary be- tween the lobes. Vei’y fine blood-vessels are seen in the sub- stance of the breast. The gland, not secreting, may be from four to five inches in diameter. During lactation, it ex- tends, and I'eaches, perhaps, within an inch and a half of the clavicle, and half an inch of the sternum, whilst part winds under the fold of the pectoi’al muscle, and sometimes reaches even to the axilla. Hence, in many cases, before the secretion be free,, there is painful hardness toward the axilla. Even when not nursing, and the breasts small, part usually winds under, or behind, the fold of the muscle at the ribs, a circum- stance to be attended to, in the operation for cancer. Lym- phatic glands can be traced from the margin of the breast, or lower part of the axilla, both close by the side and fold of the