jugular, and therefore we must not go, at any point, unneces- sarily deep, or insulate the artery without proper inspection. The Lymphatics are not so much in the way of being in- jured, for, the cervical absorbents run with the internal jugular, and the brachial with the subclavian vein. Still, some must be divided, in the operation of exposing the artery, and several glands occupy the very space which must be dissected. When the artery is to be tied, the first thing is to mark, exactly, with the eye, at the upper margin of the clavicle, the point which is an inch and five-eighths out from its sternal end, for that indicates, as nearly as possible, the outer mar- gin of the scalenus. An incision about two inches and a half long, is next to be made, merely through the skin, parallel to the clavicle, and very little above it. We begin it three quarters of an inch, or an inch, from the articulation. We then cautiously divide the platysma, but not, at least, till we see if it be necessary, quite to the same extent. The exter- nal jugular vein, which is either in or under the platysma, is to be shunned; but as it is not uniform in the point where it meets the clavicle, it may be necessary to draw it either inward or outward in prosecuting the dissection. Having exposed the space between the mastoid and trapezius mus- cles, by dividing the platysma, and noting the point which corresponds to the issue of the artery, we next consider, how much of the clavicular portion of the mastoid muscle must be divided. This sometimes arises from the clavicle, for two inches and three quarters, from the articulation. Two and a half, is not an unusual extent, but even if less, it must be di- vided inward, for some way nearer the articulation, than an inch and a half, but, if possible, not nearer than an inch and a quarter, as it is desirable not to expose the internal jugular vein, which sometimes extends fully to that distance. At- tending to the safety of the external jugular, we proceed to cut, more and more deeply, down to the outer margin of the scalenus, but not nearer the articulation than that. -The glands and cellular substance, are to be laid hold of with for- ceps, and raised or rendered tight as we cut, and are,