3‘2,S biceps, toward the inner margin of that muscle, or the line of the artery, which it reaches, perhaps an inch above the joint, and pi'oceeds upward toward the axilla, by the inside of the artery, as the brachial vein. Sometimes it subdivides into two. The addition from the median, viz., the median basilic, enters it about an inch above the joint, and a smaller vein, from the face of the ulna, often joins it lower. There is, however, considerable irregularity in the coui'se, the height at which the median basilic enters, and even the number of these superficial veins, for such they are, compai’atively at the elbow, as the brachial itself lies deep above the joint. For instance, it is not unusual for the basilic, to meet the artery, from two to three inches above the joint, whilst, from the cephalic, at the outside of the biceps tendon, is given off a large branch, which crosses the tendon obliquely, and mounts up to enter the basilic, where that meets the artery, and, con- sequently, it crosses obliquely both the artery and the median nerve. The cephalic in the arm, is sometimes merely a con- tinuation of the median, receiving a small tributary vein, from the margin of the supinator. In other cases, at the joint, it receives a large communicating branch from the radial comites. Two deep veins, usually, accompany the artery, one to its outside, the other to its inside, and closely in contact with it. These, called the comites, are formed by the union, at the elbow joint, of the comites belonging to the radial and ulnar arteries, each of which has two accompanying veins, which unite at the joint, to form the two brachial comites, one of which often lies on the face of the humeral artery, at the elbow joint. Besides these veins, the larger muscular branches, of the brachial artery, have their comites. The course, or line, of the brachial artery, has already been described. On the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and from that, till the origin of the triceps brevis, it lies on the spiral nerve, or has that behind it. From the margin of the tendon of the latissimus, to the triceps brevis, it rests on the tiiceps longus, with the intervention of the spiral nerve, and bounded on the outside by the coraco-brachieus. Then, it