392 opening; the sacrum. All that part of the cavity, which is below the reflection of the pelvic fascia, to the bladder, rectum, &c. is concealed. The iliacus occupies and rises from the whole of the iliac fossa. It is bounded by the crest of the ilium, and the mus- cles implanted into or rising from it, and at the back part by the quadratus. It passes out under Poupart’s ligament, filling the space between the superior and inferior spinous processes, covering the top of the rectus, and, itself, partly covered by the sartorius, and with the tensor on its outside. It descends on the outside of the acetabular portion of the bone, and seems as if it employed the tendon of the psoas, which passes over the face of the acetabulum. The psoas is at first sunk between the lumbar vertebrae and ilium, till we come to the brim, on which it scarcely encroaches, for it is directed a little outwai’d. About midway between the sacrum and Poupart’s ligament, it is intimately united to the iliacus, looking like a portion of that muscle doubled outward over itself. The united muscle passes out, with its pubal margin rather less than two inches from the tubercle, that of the psoas being almost half an inch nearer than the iliacus, or not quite three inches from the spine of the ilium. On raising the intestines from the pelvis, we sometimes see the right iliac fossa,covered to a considei'able extent,by thedis- tended caecum, but, generally, that intestine scarcely descends beyond the crest of the ilium. On the left side, the rectum turns down at the sacro-iliac symphysis, and the muscle, for- ward from that, has the sigmoid flexure of the colon resting on it. In the male, the collapsed bladder lies on the face of the rectum. In the female, the uterus is interposed. From the rectum and caecum, forward to Poupart’s ligament, the brim is skirted by the external iliac artery seen through the peri- tonaeum. The vein is to its pubal side, or sometimes partly covered by the artery. Next, if we take a side view, we see under the peritonaeum, the vas deferens which separates from the spermatic vessels at about half an inch from Poupart’s ligament. The former run up more on the face of tlie iliac artery, whilst the latter proceeds obliquely inward on the