7 splenius; lower, the anterior margin is nearly parallel to the scalenus anticus. Tlie sterno-mastoid muscle in a female is about seven inches in length, but its relations are tolerably certain. A point equi- distant from its origin and insertion, generally corresponds to the under margin of the thyroid cartilage. A point half way between this and the mastoid process, corresponds to the line of the os hyoides and origin of the lingual artery. The under margin of the upper eighth, corresponds to the angle of the jaw and belly of the digastric muscle. It is a strong, and pretty broad muscle, arising by two origins. The sternal origin is the thickest, strongly tendinous, and somewhat rounded in its shape. Tlie clavicular origin is thinner, and less tendinous, but it arises from a considerable extent of smTace, namely, from two, to two and a half, inches from the end of the clavicle. The sternal origin, on the other hand, is little more than half an mch broad. The united muscle contracts somewhat, for it soon becomes only an inch and a half broad, and gets a little less as it ascends. It is inserted into the mastoid process, and along the occipital bone, for an inch and a quarter from the end of die process, reaching nearly, sometimes entirely, to the margin of the trapezius. The two portions fr-equendy unite perfecdy, but often they continue for three inches to be con- nected only by cellular substance. The anterior margin is marked by a line drawn fr’om the front of die mastoid process, or angle of the jaw, to the middle of the upper end of the sternum. Its course being oblique, it is connected with dif- ferent muscles. It joins the stemo-thyroideus at the top o^ the thyroid cartilage, and is connected with it all the way down by the cervical fascia. Tie omo-hyoideiis begins to pass obliquely under it, sometimes at its middle, occasionally con- siderably lower, but very often about three quarters of an uich lower than the top of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle com- ing forward as it descends, approaches the sterno-hyoideus, and generally meets its margin about the under part of the thyroid cartilage. The posterior margin may be marked by a line drawn from the occipital bone, about an inch and a quarter