up in the sulcus, between that and the accelerator, and also on both, till it reach the scrotum, where it ends. Being a superficial artery, it is found in the first step of our dissection, and its accompanying veins are easily seen without in- jecting. 3. Very often, as a branch of this last artery, though sometimes as a distinct ramus, there is given off the trans- versalis perinaei. It,.with its veins, runs across the angular pit, either on the surface of the transversalis muscle, or on the levator ani, in front of the rectum. It is distributed chiefly between the anus and bulb. 4<. Nearly opposite to the commencement of the bulb, deep, and hid by the crus, a large branch is given off from the trunk. It runs deep, along the margin of the triangular fascia, in which it is involved. It goes to the inner surface of the bulb, which it enters by divisions. It also gives twigs to Cooper’s glands. It is the artery of the bulb. 5. About midway between the margin of the ramus and the foramen thryroidem, the pudic trunk gives off the artery of the corpus cavernosum, or, sometimes, it comes off with the artei*y of the bulb. It runs on, within the ramus, to near the junction of the two corpora, or a little below the pubic liga- ment, where it enters the crus by the inner, or median sur- face. There is a communication through theseptem, between the arteries of opposite sides. 6. The continuation of the pudic artery gets to the margin of the ramus of the pubis, passes through the slit in the trian- gular ligament, for the transmission of the dorsal veins, gets on the dorsum of the penis, at the root, where it meets the one from the other side. It runs on, parallel to its fel- low, in the slight groove between the two crura, and proceeds to the glans and prepuce. It is the dorsalis penis. Sometimes all, or most of these branches, come off from a blanch of the internal iliac, within the pelvis, running by the side of the neck of the bladder, or gland, the pudic giving, pel haps, only a perinaeal artery. The veins from the lower part of the scrotum, crura of the penis, and surface of the perinaeum, ramify pretty exten-