511 ate bands on the plantar surface. Tliey are, at each end, lost in, or connected with, the periosteum, and a fine fascia, which encloses the interosseous muscles. The phalanges are connected by synovial membrane, a lateral ligament, an inferior ligament, and, on the dorsum, by the extensor tendons. At the first phalanx of the great toe, are two sesamoid bones, like little patellae, one on the under surface of the articulating trochlea, the other on the outer, or fibular surface. They are connected with the liga- ments and tendons, but not with that of the flexor longus. In fracture of the middle third of the tibia and fibula, the leg may, or may not, be shortened, according as the bones are broken obliquely or transversely, and according to the direction of the force. If the fibula be entire, no shortening takes place, except what may arise from the bending of the tibia. There is seldom difficulty in keeping the bones of the proper length, they are more apt to be crooked, or have their axis altered. The best position is the straight, the patient being laid on his back. A broad board, properly covered or stuffed, should be laid below, from the middle of the thigh to beyond the foot. Between the tapering part of the leg and the heel, tow or soft cloth is to be introduced, so as to afford a uniform support. The limb is to be managed with lateral splints, having each a foot piece, intervening pads, and the usual bandage. Our objects are, chiefly, to prevent the tibia bending, and the under portion from rolling too much out- ward or inward. The first is accomplished by attention to the line of the shin, and comparison with the other leg. It is easy to judge whether it project, or sink too much, at the seat of the fracture. The second is managed by attending to the relation of the ankles, and head of the tibia. The anterior mai'gin, of the inner malleolus, should correspond to the whole line of the shin up to the tuberosity, the pos- terior, to the inner margin of the tibia, up to the inner bulg- ing of the head. The metatarsal bone of the great toe should correspond to the front of the tuberosity of the tibia. The extremity of the malleolus externus, should be in a line with the head of the fibula. The foot is to be supported not