65 scapuhe, to the clavicle, so that, every where, the neck is shut out from the pectoral and axillary region. We cannot pass the finger from the one to the other, and the artery and nerves being covered by this, before it is reflected to the clavicle, we cannot touch the sheath of the artery, or insulate it from the nerves, till we cut through this covering, by an incision parallel to the artery, and between it and the nerves. This supra-clavicular fascia covers the omo-hyoideus, and all the vessels, save the external jugular vein, and everywhere shuts up the clavicular space. I must still mention, that this deep fascia, which we have seen dividing into two layers, one going down on the outside, and the other on the inside of the sternum, is connected even with the lining of the thorax. The pleura, at the sternum, seems to send off a layer to line the inside of the sternum, or it identifies itself with such a lining, whilst the main substance forms the mediastinum, and covers the pericardium. But were the deep fascia of the neck, merely lost either in this lin- ing, or in the reflection of the pleura over the pericardium, we should be able to pass the finger down, either before or behind the innominata, into the cellular substance on the mediastinum, and on to the pericardium itself. This we cannot do, for, the fascia, lining the sterno-hyoideus, &c. not only sends a reflection up, as we have seen, over the sheath of the innominata and on the trachea, which would shut up the parts here, but it also can be traced down, to communicate with the reflection of pleura covering the pericardium, which so joins with the sternal lining within the mediastinum, as to form a septum, also shutting up a direct communication from the neck. It is of importance to know that these parts are all connected, as we shall learn the hazard of inflammation of the deep fascia of the neck spreading to the thorax. From the account I have given, it will appear, that even although the muscles covering the trachea were cut, still we could not touch the trachea, for this layer which lines them, is still interposed, and between it and the trachea, is a consid- erable quantity of cellular substance, fatty matter, and vessels. This layer also prevents the finger from getting under the