507 and inserted into the first phalanx of the toes. They are the superior or dorsal interossei. On removing the skin, and aponeurosis, from the sole of the foot, we see three divisions of muscle, an outer, an inner, and a middle; the middle, or flexor brevis, rises tendinous from the under surface of the os calcis, and from the plantar apo- neurosis. It proceeds, fleshy, toward the toes, but soon ends in four tendons which go to the under surface of the second phalanx of the four small toes. These tendons are perfo- rated by those of the flexor longus. The mass on the inside consists of the muscles of the great toe. The innermost, or most lateral, the abductor, rises from the inside of the os calcis, and the fibrous covering there. It presently ends in a tendon, which bounds the margin of the foot, is connected with external head of the flexor brevis, and finally inserted into the inside of the head of the first phalanx. The adductor rises from the trochlea, the middle and external cuneiform bones, and the head of the metatarsal bones of the little toe, and one next it. It is fleshy, and runs, obliquely, to be inserted with the external portion of the flexor brevis. This last rises tendinous from the cuboid bone, and partly from around it. The muscle presently adheres, on each side to the abductor and adductor, divides into two parts which are respectively inserted into the two margins of the first phalanx. The tendon of the flexor longus runs between them. The muscles on the outside are two. The abductor minimi digiti rises from the outer and under surface of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia, which stretches from the os calcis to the metacarpal bone of the little toe. It ends in a tendon inserted into the outside of the first phalanx. The flexor brevis rises, tendinous, from the head of its meta- tarsal bone, and covering of the peroneus longus, runs fleshy along the under surface of the bone, and is inserted tendin- ous into the first phalanx. If we cut off the flexor digitorum brevis, we see a flat and not very thick sheet of muscle, somewhat rhomboidal, rising from the os calcis, and running inward to be implanted into