42G by withdrawing, for a quarter, of. an inch, the instrument, to let the floor of the urethra recover its position, and then slightly elevating its point. We may, also, at this time, derive some advantage from drawing the penis a little for- ward, so as to put the urethra just as much on the stretch as shall make it less likely to fold or yield. 3d, That, if this be not sufficient, we shall derive much advantage from intro- ducing a finger into the rectum, which, by its filling the anus, as well as supporting the face of the rectum,* keeps up the urethra, and makes the point of the instrument glide smoothly on its surface. Another spot for obstacle is, where the urethra meets the prostate gland. Often, but not always, a slight transverse ridge is observed, when the parts are slit up from above; and, in this case, the point of the sound may be caught, just as it was by the rim of the triangular fascia, and, if forced on, the canal is ruptured, and the instrument enters the substance of the gland, or, much more frequently, passes between the gland and the rectum. This is not so frequently the seat of obstruction as the one first mentioned. But when it is, the same means are to be employed—namely, slightly withdrawing the instrument, and then elevating its point, and introducing the finger into the rectum, if necessary, which is still more useful than in the first case. In that case, when the urethra is ruptured, it can scarcely be said to be in the membranous portion, for it is rather anterior to it. In the second case, the rupture is at its very termination. The tract of the membranous portion, itself, is seldom ruptured, even by ignorance, unless there be stricture, or some unnatu- ral obstruction. The catheter, or sound, ought always to be oiled, and made of the same heat as that of the urethra. If the urine be too long retained, it is sometimes impos- sible to void it, partly, from defect of power in the bladder, partly, from spasm of the muscular fibres at the membranous part of the urethra. Some deny this, and suppose that the obstruction is from inflammatory swelling. It is usual to em- ploy the warm bath, &c.; but, I believe, the best practice is, k