282 part of the scapula, we shall find the axilla shut up, there, by the serratus, which is implanted into the base of the bone, and from that, forward to the tract of the vessels and nerves, is connected to the subscapularis, by loose cellular substance, or, to speak more correctly, the fasciae covering these muscles, are thus connected. To proceed to the upper part, we find, on cutting the trapezius, that the fascia beneath it, passes under the omo-hyoideus, to the inside of the clavicle, where it is implanted. But a still deeper layer, covering the deep muscles, nerves, &c., extends from the scalenus posticus, to the clavicle, to the levator scapulae, and the upper costa of the scapula itself, and supra-spinatus. This union is so intimate, that, at first, the levator seems to go to the rib, as well as to the scapula. Farther forward, a continuation of the layer, goes from the scalenus anticus to the clavicle, and also from the artery and nerves. Looking, then, from the neck, nothing can, without rupturing this fascia, get to the axilla. But were this the only defence, we might, from the axilla, raise up this, and get on the neck. The serratus is not only inserted into the base of the scapula, but its upper head is implanted, for at least half an inch, along the superior costa. From thence forward, the fascia, lining the serratus, is reflected on the inner surface of the subclavius muscle, thus shutting up, there, the axilla within. But it may be better to change the view, and trace, what may be called, the axillary fascia. First, then, the arm- pit, beneath the skin, is covered, or shut up, by a firm fascia, which descends along the arm, extends on the pectoralis ma- jor, thelatissimus dorsi, origin of the teres major and serratus, so, as every-where, to be continuous with that exterior fascia, which, more or less distinctly, covers the w'hole body. The shape of the armpit is triangular, the base being turned to the side or thorax. The distance between the folds of the axilla, is more than an inch and a half, and the cup, usually, is about an inch deep from the fold. An inner layer of this fascia mounts up, within the axilla, and lines it, whilst a thin sheet also is sent off, up between the pectoralis major and minor, all the way to the clavicle. But this, often, is indistinct and cellular. To attend to the lining of the cavity: the