35H extensor indicis, which-also rises from the back and radial margin of the ulna, higher than its middle, by a tendinous strip, and from the ulnar margin of the interosseous liga- ment. The Brachial artery, usually, divides into the radial and ulnar, about half an inch below the bend of the arm, or an inch and a half below a line drawn across the arm, from the top of the peak of the inner condyle. It runs on the brachieus muscle, just by the inside of the biceps tendon, and its course is a very little outward. The Radial artery, at its origin, is either obliquely in front of the ulnar, that is more superficial, or it is to its outside. It runs nearly straight down, inclining a very little outward. Immediately, it crosses the biceps tendon, and then meets the inner margin of the supinator longus, in the tract of which it proceeds toward the wrist, sometimes so very superficial, as to be scarcely covered by that margin, but generally it is a little deeper, being quite hid or covered by it. The course of the artery may be pretty correctly described, by a line drawn from the inner margin of the tendon of the biceps to the radial margin of the flexor radialis at [the wrist. After leaving the biceps tendon, it lies on the supinator brevis, till it meet the prona- tor, having the radial nerve partly behind it, partly to its outside. At first, it is between the supinator longus, on the outer, and the pronator and flexor radialis, on the inner side, but, the pronator stretching outward, as it descends, the artery comes to rest on its tendon, after which, in its pro- gress, it lies on the flexor sublimis, for perhaps half an inch; then, the flexor pollicis, appearing from below that, it rests on it, and that flexor becoming narrower, when it reaches the origin of the pronator quadratus, the artery rests on it, and finally on the face of the end of the radius, by the radial side of the tendon of the flexor radialis. Besides irregular muscular branches, the radial artery, in this course, gives off* only one that is named, till it come to the wrist. It is the recurrens radialis, which rises about a quarter of an inch after the bifurcation. It is as large as a crow quill, and dives down toward the supinator brevis, and then immediately