187 division of one or more of the branches of the external jugu- lar vein may cause death from continued bleeding, unless the patient faint early. The introduction of air into the wounded vein is also a cause of death. A very considerable proportion of wounds are inflicted in the hyo-thyroid space. Sometimes a superficial vein runs across here between the external jugulars, and may be cut; or, if the incision go backward, the anterior external jugular may be divided. The muscles which will be cut are the omo and sterno-hyoidei, the hyo-thyroidei, and, if we go backward, part of the margin of the constrictor medius, and perhaps even of the mastoid. The laryngea is apt to be divided, and so is the laryngeal nerve, if the membrane be cut. If the wound go directly backward, any where below the level of the peak of the thyroid horn, and beyond its margin, the superior thj^- roid artery will be cut near its origin. If, on the other hand, the incision be near the os-hyoides, and go beyond its horn, it will include the lingual artery, or the common trunk, which sometimes gives off both it and the facial. The lin- gual nerve will also be divided if the wound go in any degree upward. The carotid itself is in great danger, and must suffer if the wound be deep and go far back. If the wound do not go beyond the hyo-thyroid ligament no vessel of any importance is divided. If the muscles alone be divided, and the membrane be entire, we find that a probe, or the finger pushed in at the side, presses at the side of the epiglottis, at the root of the tongue, or, if the cut have been closer to the thyroid cartilage, and pretty far back, we press in on the aryteno-epiglottic fossa. If the wound have divided the membrane, then we enter at the side, into the fossa, and thence back to the pharynx. Very little of the constrictor can be cut in those cases where the carotid escapes, and therefore although the wound open into the pharynx, little, if any, of that muscular organ may be injured. The epiglottic gland, and connexion of the epiglottis to the thyroid cartilage, are divided, so that the epiglottis is attached only to the os hyoides. Its connexion with the glottis is destroyed, and if the incision go far back the constrictors are cut to a certain