418 the gland, where it joins the membranous part of the urethra, is narrow, and is called the apex. The upper margin is broad, and slightly concave, where it seems to join the bladder. It is partly laid on the neck of the bladder—that is, we can trace the bladder a little way within the gland; and, at the back part, the vesiculae and vasa deferentia can be traced down between them, till they enter the substance of the gland. Sometimes this part of the bladder is thin, but often it is thick, and its mucous coat so identified, as it were, with the gland, that we cannot precisely say where the one ends and the other begins. The urethra passes through the gland, at least an eighth of an inch nearer its upper than its under surface. At the apex, therefore, the upper surface of the urethra is nearly on a line with that of the gland, whilst the under surface is higher than the under surface of the gland, and may, by the point of a catheter, be pressed down against it. On slitting up the gland, we observe, on the under surface, or floor of the canal, a longitudinal ridge, or elevation of the mucous membrane, about half an inch long, and fully an eighth of an inch high. This, which is called the veru montanum, is somewhat pyramidical, for the end nearest the bladder is about a quarter of an inch broad, whilst that toward the urethra is narrow. Its bulb, when the gland is long, may be half an inch from the neck of the bladder. If short, the narrow end is sometimes prolonged into the commencement of the membranous part of the urethra. The common ducts, two in number, formed by the vasa deferentia and vesiculae, enter the gland, or form in it, and passing forward, open on the top of the bulb, whilst, on its sides, small ducts from the gland itself have their orifices. If we trace the gland from its apex, we find, if the subject be placed on the back, and the bladder be empty, that it, as well as the lower part of the bladder, is directed downward, not quite perpendicularly, but sloping a little upward. The direction is nearly parallel to a line drawn from the sym- physis pubis to the promontory of the sacrum ; or we say, that a straight staff introduced, and allowed to go on in the