515 the tuberosity of the tibia. The reduction is easy or more difficult, in proportion as the tibia has descended on the side of the astragalus, and as we relax the muscles. But when reduced, displacement soon takes place again, foi, the fibula, being broken, no longer acts as a defence, or resists at the outer ankle. We must therefore, after applying leeches, if necessary, employ two splints with foot-pieces, inteiposing pads of cloth, wet with water, and continuing to moisten these so long as required. The use of the splint is to prevent the foot from being again everted, and this may, if neces- sary, be assisted by first of all taking a long band of cloth, the middle of which is to be laid under the inner ankle, the two ends crossed over the outer ankle, then brought under the sole to the inside, and then drawn up along the leg, to be fixed below the knee, under the splints. This pulls the outer margin of the foot inward. The patient is to be laid on a firm mattress, the leg bent, and placed on its fibular side. Much care is necessary to allay inflammation. The splint must be used for six weeks, and as soon as the fibula is con- solidated, passive motion is to be employed. When the patient first walks, he must use crutches. It is about three months before the cure be perfect. Dislocation outward must be more severe, as it requires greater force to break off the internal malleolus, without which it cannot happen. The outer ankle in this case pro- jects much, and the other appearances are the reverse of what is met with in the first case. The extent to which the tibia is fractured, varies, and generally the fibula also is broken, and if not, its ligaments, are torn. The deltoid liga- ment is entire. The foot is pointed downward. The reduc- tion and subsequent treatment are to be conducted on the same principle as in the first case, only, the bones are pressed in a reversed direction, and our attention is directed to pre- vent the foot from being inverted, or the toes pointed down- ward. The leg is to be placed on the fibular side, and semibent. In dislocation forward, the foot seems shortened, but the heel does not appear so much lengthened, as might be sup- posed, owing to the tendo-Achilles and skin curving above