In the first degree, when the coronoid process is not so higli, if the brachieus act smartly, the plan of flexion may succeed by rolling the coronoid process over the trochlea, and if it once begin to do so, the very tightening of the capsule will assist. But, notwithstanding, the method by extension, is the most to be depended on. The ulna has been sometimes reduced, ■whilst the i-adius remained displaced. In others, the liead of that bone, after reduction, is felt to be more forward than it ought to be. This requires the application of a firm compress, and bandage, for a time. After these remarks, I add the measurement of a joint, which had been several weeks dislocated, the notes of which ai'e before me. The distance from the peak of the inner condyle, to the point of the oleci’anon, was two inches and three quarters, for that point, •was both farther back, and higher than natural. The mar- gin of the head of the radius, as felt through the soft parts, ■was about two inches behind the side of the outer condyle. The tendon of the biceps was rigid, and the distance between it and the olecranon, was four inches. The supinator had started somewhat forward, like a ridge at the upper part of the fore-arm, and the flexor radialis seemed a little more project- ing. In dissecting an old unreduced dislocation, we find a new articulation formed. The end of the humerus projects forward. The head of the radius lies in a shallow smooth artieulating surface, formed on the back of the condyle, which often expands more backward than natural. The inner condyle also extends a little farther back. The coronoid process is not absorbed, but either goes into the sigmoid cavity, or into a new hollow at the back of the trochlea. Considerable motion is permitted. It is possible for the ulna alone to be dislocated, whilst the radius remains in its place; but there are few instances of this. Lateral dislocation is usually inward, and caused by a heavy body, such as a cart-wheel, passing over the part. It is, there- fore, not unlikely, to be combined, with fracture of one or other of the bones. The inside of the ulna, is on a line with the peak of the inner condyle. The radius is much more inward