443 absorbed, the canal does not contract, and hernia takes place. A large proportion of elderly men have incipient hernia, / especially on the right side. A short canal also predisposes to hernia, but it is often also an effect; for, when the contents of the abdomen protrude, the pubal margin of the canal is naturally pressed inward, so that, in old hernia, the canal is not only very short, but is scarcely oblique. From the fixed position of the constituent parts of the cord, previous to its exit, it is evident, that the sac must, in common inguinal hernia, come down in front of the cord. There are, doubt- less, instances where, in this hernia, its component parts have been separated, lying partly on the sides, or altogether on the face of the tumour; but, in this, there must have been some peculiarity in the state of the aperture, or some laceration of the fascia there. It is conceivable, that, where strong ad- hesion has been formed between the cord and the sac, the great enlargement of the latter may decompose the former, but it never can place it in front. As the vas deferens hooks round the epigastric artery, in passing to the pelvis, it is evident, that this artery must be placed to the pubal side of the neck of the sac, in all cases of common inguinal hernia. The herniary substance is covered with different tunics. First, we have the peritonaeal sac itself, which immediately receives the intestines; next, we have the thin prolongation of fascia transversalis, which goes out with the cord; but, by the time that the hernia clears the inferior aperture, this may be cellular ; then we have the cremaster ; then, the fascia propria of the cord; and, lastly, the cellular substance, and common integuments. Above the inferior aperture of the canal, the sac, is covered by the muscles which cover the cord. The peritoneal coat is sometimes thickened, but it is chiefly the others, especially the fascia pi’opria and cellular coat which thicken. 4 he fibres and loops of the cremaster are often, in large hernia, strong and distinct. Stricture, or tightening of the tumour, may take place in different situations. It may be pinched or tightened by the pillars of the inferior aperture, and the border of