259 directlv down along the outside of the orbit. Second, the posterior dental, or alveolar, consisting of either one or two branches, which run down on the tuberosity of the maxillary bone, sink into small holes in the bone, reach the alveolar cavities, of the three posterior grinders, and supply these and the teeth. The continuation of the nerve, is called the infra-orbitar, for it runs in the infra-orbitar canal, and issues from the infra-orbitar foramen. Before coming out at the foramen, it gives off the anterior dental, which descends on the inside, of the fore part, of the antrum, and is distributed to the two first grinders, and teeth in front. The foramen is situated, three-eighths of an inch, below the edge of the orbit, and about one and a half, inward, from the angle, formed by the orbitar and zygomatic process of the malar bone, but the exact distance varies, a little, according to the arching of the jaw, and prominence of the cheek. It is generally in a line, up, from the fifth tooth from the front, sometimes the ante- rior, sometimes the posterior, margin of that tooth, accord- ing to the breadth of the teeth and the shape of the jaw. The nerve, where it issues, has its trunk covered by the artery, or, sometimes a very little to its outside, but twigs, also, surround, and pass over, the artery. It is covered by the levator labii. On raising this, it is seen splitting into numerous branches, on the surface of the levator anguli oris, which spread in all directions, and interlace with branches of the portio dura. It is distributed to the under eyelid, lip, nose, &c., becoming cutaneous. If we wish to divide the nerve, it is easily done, by intro- ducing a narrow scalpel, in the site of the foramen. A little blood flows, from the division of this artery, and perhaps a small swelling is produced, by effusion of blood. It has been proposed to make a regular dissection, turn aside the levator labii, and cut out a bit of the nerve. The other plan is ac- complished in half a minute, is less painful, and, I believe, equally useful. The patient, for a time, says the side of the nose, and lip, &c., are without feeling. Just at the spheno-palatine fissure, below this branch of