387 Vadial margin of the pisiform bone, bound or covered by a firm expansion, already noticed, and then, by the palmaris brevis, and palmar aponeurosis. Generally, just below the pisiform bone, it gives off the communicating branch, which sinks backward, by the radial side of the flexor brevis, along with the deep division of the ulnar nerve. They then run radially between this and the abductor, the artery joining the radial arch. The artery then descends for nearly an inch, pretty directly down, in a line from the radial margin of the pisiform bone, and afterwards winds obliquely outward, to form the superficial arch, as it is called, but often it merely runs obliquely downward and outward, to the space between the fore and midfingers, and all we have for arch is a small continuation toward the ball of the thumb for the skin there, or to join the superficialis volas. This superficial arch some- times runs as high as the deep arch, but, generally, it is half an inch nearer the fingers. At, and above the wrist, the nerve is to the ulnar side of the artery, but at the pisiform bone, the former is often covered by the latter. It first of all sends down, along with the deep division of the ulnar nerve, the communicating branch, which penetrates between the flexor brevis and abductor minimi digiti, to join the radial artery. It then proceeds, as the arch, dividing in its course, into four digital arteries, and terminating by anastomising with the superficialis volas and radial branches ; irregular twigs are also given to the lumbricales. The first digital branch, runs down the ulnar side of the little finger, the others, at the commencement of the finger, subdivide into two, one for each side of the finger, running with the digital nerve, covered by aponeurosis. The ulnar side of the index is thus supplied, if the radialis indicis have not been so large as to supply both sides. The fingers are thus plentifully furnished with blood, and, toward the point, the branches on each side anastomose very freely. The veins require no particular notice, as the deep ones accompany the arterial branches, one on each side of the arteries. The superficial ones form on the back of the finger, then between the knuckles, pass up to the back of the hand, and thence, in two large divisions,