i<C)5 muscles, as in the former case, are torn, relaxed, or stretched, though in a different degree, owing to the head of the bone not being so high, but farther back, than it generally is in that case. The gemelli and quadratus often suffer most. The capsule is either torn all round, or entire at the outer side. In this dislocation, the limb is only half an inch shorter than the other, unless the head be rather lower than usual. The foot is turned inward, so that the great toe rests on the ball of the other foot. To reduce, bend the leg, make extension in the direction of the acetabulum—that is, forward—then abduct, slowly, the thigh, continuing the extension, so as to roll the Head into the socket. If this fail, still extend, and try adducting it, so as to draw the head over the rim of the acetabulum. The head may also be dislocated into the lesser sciatic notch, resting on the spine of the ischium, above the inferior ligament below, and the back of the tuberosity before. It passes be- tween the inferior gemellus and the quadratus; but the former, with the other gemellus and obturator tendon, are likely to be torn, or must be stretched. The gluteus medius and minimus are stretched, and so are the pectinaeus and adductor brevis. The trochanter is farther down, farther back, and sunk ; the toes turned in, and the limb elongated to the extent of two inches. In one case, detailed by Mr. Keate, the thigh was much bent on the body, the leg as much bent, and great abduction, the knee and foot much everted, and the limb elongated to the extent of from three, to three inches and a half. This account is circumstantial; but it must surely be an error of the press when it is said that the toes were everted. The spine of the ischium is about two inches lower than the upper margin of the acetabulum ; consequently, the upper surface of the head must be more than an inch below the spine, or very near the end of the tuberosity, to produce the elongation described. This was a secondary dislocation, for the head appears to have been first thrown into the foramen ovale, and then back. In reducing, we ought to draw the head in a direction upw^ard and forward, in a line toward the superior spine of the ilium, and, when level with the outer II. 2 H