principal dilator is liberally supplied by the recurrent nerve. It is the crico-arytenoideus posticus, a large and powerful muscle. It is more than an inch long, and at the broadest part half an inch broad. It runs along the back of the cricoid, to the base of the arytenoid cartilage, but the two on opposite sides, do not meet in the middle, but leave the cartilajje bare there for more than a quarter of an inch. At the top, we see another broad muscle traversing it at right angles, on the ary- tenoid cartilages. This, the arytenoideus, is an inch long as it runs across, and about three-eighths broad. These two mus- cles, are the most decided antagonists, and both are most easily exhibited by merely removing the mucous membrane, from the back of the cricoid, and surface of the arytenoid car- tilages. Two other small muscles lie at the side, and toward the front of the latter cartilages. The crico-arytenoideus later- alis is just at the side, the thyro-arytenoideus more forward; these are supposed to act as constrictors, but in certain cir- cumstances, the last may rather dilate. Another cause which may require the operation, is a foreign body in the air passage. It may be supposed that whatever gets in may be coughed out, but this does not always happen, for the glottis contracts by the irritation of the foreign body, even if it could be brought up that length. It may, however, be impacted much low'er, in one of the ramifications of the wdndpipe, and produce cough, and other serious effects, till at last it be disengaged and discharged. In that case, it is generally found covei’ed with an incrustation. If it stick from shape, or any cause, in the larynx, it produces severe paroxysms of suffocation, whenever its position becomes unfavourable, or, if free, it may, from getting up to the larynx, produce even a fatal fit of suffocation. It has been found so lodged in the sacculus laryngis, as to obstruct respi- ration. When it is impacted or lodged above the cricoid car- tilage, it can only be mechanically and artificially removed by making an opening in the crico-thyroid membrane, and pushing it up with a probe, or by laying open the thyroid cavity, w'hich is a formidable operation. If moveable, and it rise and fall in respiration, it would appear, from the