S5G anterior interossea. The direction of the fibres, is obliquely downward, from the radius to the ulna. They are strongest from half an inch above the foramen, to a quarter below it, forming there almost a distinct band. On the back part, a band has been described rather higher, running so as to decussate the general fibres, and this has received the name of the posterior, but it is often not to be detected. No degree of either pronation or supination affects the mem- brane, in the natural position of the bones. Looking at the back of the fore-arm, we observe its inner margin, to be formed by the flexor ulnaris, its outer, at the very top, by a strip of the supinator longus, then, almost immediately, by the extensor radialis longior and brevior, the latter, fleshy much farther down, and extending more inward than the former. A little below the condyle, we see between these marginal boundaries, the extensor communis most outward, the extensor carpi ulnaris most inward, and betwixt them, the extensor minimi digiti. These three, can- not be distinctly separated from each other, higher than three inches below the peak of the olecranon. The flexor and extensor ulnaris, are not in contact, but are only connected by a strong sheet of thick aponeurosis, varying in breadth, according to its distance from the olecranon. At fully three inches below that, it is half an inch broad. It covers the flexor digitorum profundus, which rises from the posterior ridge of the ulna, and therefore is covered both by this and the flexor ulnaris. If we look at the fore-arm more in parts, we have, at the very top, the olecranon, the back of which, from its peak down, for three inches, is covered at its radial side, by the anconeus, leaving an inner portion uncovered. Then, at an inch and a half below the peak, the thin origin of the flexor pi'ofundus, is found on the back of the bone. There is, therefore, a part uncovered by muscle, but this becomes narrower, as we descend, till it end in a point. The flexor profundus, from its origin, continues to march with the anconeus, which, again, is bounded at its radial margin by the extensor carpi ulnaris. All these, as well as the unoccupied part of the olecranon, are covered by very