194 If the wound be directed obliquely upward, the base of the arytenoid cartilage is cut. In an wound here, we have veinous branches, on the anterior part of the neck, divided, and branches of the thyroid artery. These are to be secured, and the farther treatment, will depend on the state of the glottis. In many cases, the patient cannot breathe if the wound be closed, as the recurrent has suffered. We are, therefore, obliged to allow it to remain open, and to take precautions to keep it from filling with mucus, or after- wards with granulations. If the patient can bx’eathe by the mouth, and the pharynx be untouched, we close the wound and keep its sides in contact by plaster and position. If the pharynx have been opened, we can hardly expect the patient to be able to breathe by the mouth, and dare only close the ex- tremities of the wound, so as to diminish its extent. If the pa- tient can bear a tube to be introduced, from the mouth or nostril, into the stomach, we inject liquid nourishment. If he cannot, we try a tube introduced from the wound, and if neither can be borne, then, we must give nourishment by glysters, and assuage thirst either by the tepid bath, or if that be not safe, by fomentation of the extremities and abdomen. The great- est proportion of such patients die, but some recover, either so completely, as to be able to swallow, the pharynx becoming, again, entire, or, they become able to have a tube introduced from the wound. In some instances, the laryngeal canal be- comes quite entire, but a fistulous opening remains, leading, by its side, to the pharynx, and often, even when the pharynx has not been opened, a fistula remains, opening into the air passage. It either at last closes, by the usual means, or becomes so small, as to give no inconvenience when covered by a bit of plaster. In wounds of the throat, the patient breathing by the wound, the glottis seems to become more quiescent, and less able to prevent the entrance of fluids, or food, in the act of deglutition, and when any portion does get in, the effort to cough and eject it, can have no effect in preventing its de- scent, for the air is forced out, not by the glottis, but by the wound. In many cases, even, of laryngotomy, much cough-