90 styloid process, must also be on the outside of the styloid expansion, or behind it, the expansion being obliquely placed. The parotid gland rests on this expansion. The artery mounts up between the gland and expansion. It meets the gland just after it has passed the digastric, but the gland rather lies there on_ the artery, than is penetrated by it. It gets involved in the substance of the gland, about three-fourths of an inch above the angle, or at a line nearly horizontal from the end ,of the mastoid process. It passes or rises above the upper margin of the digastric, about five-eighths above the peak of the angle of the jaw. It gets behind the muscle immediately after giving off the facial. What is called the stylo-myloid ligament passes down within the digastric in front of the artery. The order of the parts here, at the angle of the jaw, if traced upward and inward, is, first the digastric, then the stylo-hyoideus, then the carotid artery, the glosso-pharyngeus, stylo-pharyngeus, and stylo- glossus; and the stratum on which these rest is the constrictors. The external carotid artery may be tied either above or below the digastric muscle; whether it ever be expedient to tie it in the first situation, may afterwards be considered. But, first, let me describe how the artery may be exposed between its origin and the angle of the jaw. For this purpose, an incision must be made through the skin and cellular sub- stance, from a finger’s breadth above the angle, and between the jaw and the mastoid muscle, down to a little below the top of the thyroid cartilage. This will run along the margin of the mastoid muscle. The platysma being exposed, we look for the posterior external jugular vein, and see that it is not in the way; if it be, we draw it aside, generally forward, and dissect a little down in front of the mastoid muscle. This is done cautiously, so as not to divide any vein which may be avoided. We go deepest near the angle of the jaw, to expose as our guide the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. Hav- ing found this, we clear a little its inferior margin, and run the eye down from the back of the ramus of the jaw, to the back of the horn of the thyroid cartilage. We cut cautiously in this line, which is the course of the artery, for if we cut at