382 the insertion of the nail, so as to form a sulcus, into which it is implanted, and which, when the nail is pulled off, is seen like a semicircular groove. The epidermis, both at the root and sides, extends a little on the margin of the nail, and at the point of the finger, it is reflected back to the face of the nail, fixing it there, and preventing any thing from getting below it. The point of the finger is made up of dense cel- lular substance, and numerous branches of vessels and nerves. From the connexion of the corium with the nail, and of the aponeurosis, tendon, and periosteum, we can readily under- stand the various effects, both in degree and extent, which may be produced by fretting or inflammation of any one part. In some cases, we have mere superficial inflammation just under the epidermis, and extending from the root, or side, of the nail, up the back of the phalanx. It is marked by heat, smarting, redness, and slight swelling, ending soon in vesication, more or less extensive, containing bloody serum, or sometimes sero-piirulent fluid. It bursts, if not punctured, and the skin below is found red and tender, and festers, like a common blistered part. The cuticle presently dries over it, and then peels off. This is easily managed, and requires little more than time, or a small puncture of the vesication. In others, the inflammation is deeper, and spreads under the nail, or round to the front of the finger, or partly up the back of the phalanx, but still it is at first only skin deep, or exterior to the tendon. It is moi*e frequent on the face than the back of the finger. There is much heat, and considerable pain, very early a feeling of throbbing, and some swelling, so elastic as to ffive rise to the idea that a fluid is contained. A O free incision gives relief, by taking off tension, and procuring a topical discharge of blood. If this has been postponed till matter form, the incision is required to let that out, for it is longer of bursting itself, is apt to spread, and the opening, when it does take place, is small, and often a fungus pro- trudes, or the nail is thrown off*, or the inflammation goes so deep as to affect the periosteum, and destroy the bone, which requires to be removed. If the bone live, and a free dis- charge have been procured, we may hasten the cure by