2G4 directly back, from the junction of the malar and maxillary bones. The trunk of the nerve, which is half an inch long, passes forward about a quarter of an inch, and a little down- ward, nearer the angle of the jaw, or lower than the cartila- ginous tube of the ear. It is about half an inch deeper, than the surface of the mastoid process, or from three quarters, to seven-eighths, deep from the surface of the skin. It is nearly in contact with the stylo-mastoid avtei'y, but higher. It crosses the styloid process near its root, just under the meatus auditorius, and is itself crossed, at its issue, by the arteria posterior auris. It enters the gland behind the posterior facial vein. On issuing from the stylo-mastoid hole, the nerve, very soon, gives off many branches. One, descends a little, and, then, curves upward and backward, on, or before, the mastoid process. It is the posterior auricular, and divides into two branches; one, is distributed on the back of the external ear, the other, mounts on the occiput. It is to be remembei'ed, that there is also an aiu’icular nerve, from the second cervical. Then, the stylo-hyoideus, and digastricus, or sub-mastoid, come off separately, or in a common branch, and are distri- buted to these muscles, and send twigs to the glosso-phar- yngeus, accessory, and superior ganglion, and even ramify on the vessels as the carotid, &c. Then, in the gland, the nerve divides into two large branches, the temporo-facial, and the cervico-facial. The first, is directed forward and upward, crosses the condyle, and splits into several rami. It gives off the superficial temporal, which ascends over the zygoma, and ramifies upward, dividing first into two branches, between the skin and aponeurosis. The more transverse, or facial rami, are subdivided into tlie malai’, buccal and masseteric, or the superior, middle, and in- ferior facial nerves, which are distributed, as their names in- dicate, to the orbicularis palpebrarum, cheek, mouth, &c. Two, go to the cheek, as malar, three, as buccal. 1 he largest branch, is variable, in its relation, to the transversalis artery, being most frequently higher, though sometimes lower, or on