452 the pectineus, sometimes like a distinct band, oftener like a continuation of tlie falciform process, giving the whole the appearance of an arch. Another, or internal, division passes out from the pelvis, tinder Poupart’s ligament, in front of the vein, and by the crural aperture. This not only forms the crural sac, but is expanded on the pectineus and triceps longus, and identified with the other portion just described. At the sac, it is reflected on the inner margin of the vein, and thence to the inner surface of the falciform process, which thus consists of two layers, one derived from the external, another from , the internal fascia. This process, which I first detected in an oedematous subject, and have never since failed to find, over- hangs the femoral vein. The vena saphena passes under it to enter the former: cellular substance, fat, and lymphatic glands, fill the rest of the space. If we clean the part, and introduce the point of the finger under the process, and on the pectineus muscle, we feel, in front, the bridling of the superior limb of the process, and, a little higher and farther back, the posterior border of Poupart’s ligament. At the outside, we shall have the vein covered with fascia; and, at the upper part, and also toward the vein, we shall have the crural sac. No probe can enter the abdomen till this sac be torn. If we examine from within, and remove the peri- tonaeum, we find the mouth of the sac, and covered, as already described, by a thin layer. Femoral hernia usually enters the crural sac, and distends it, so that it bulges out, under the upper and outer margin of the falciform process. If we dissect from without, we have, first, the skin ; then, the superficial fascia, with lym- phatic glands and cellular substance ; then, the crural sac, or fascia propria of the hernia, beneath which is frequently an irregular layer of fatty substance; lastly, the peritonaeum, covering the intestine. The sac rests on the pectineus, and is traversed, at the top, by the upper limb of the falciform process, or summit of the arch of the fascia of the thigh. If we examine the mouth of the peritonaeal sac, we find it em- braced by the mouth of the crural sac, which is bounded