43 will also make us very scrupulous in employing the caustic bougie. Were the disease strictly local, and not very extensive, the portion could, without dividing any nerve or vessel, except the oesophageal branches, be cut out, and fluids afterwards injected into the stomach, by a tube inserted into the oesophagus, from the external wound. But the difficulty of ascertaining the extent and connexion of the disease, and the hazard arising from the effect of the wound on the system, must be considered as discouraging. Making an aperture in the oesophagus below the stricture, and introducing a tube, by which fluids could be injected into the stomach, is not immediately hazardous, and may be the mean of prolonging life for some time. The operation of simple oesophagotomy is less dangerous than the excision of even a small portion, for there is only an opening made in the tub% which is still left a continuous canal, that may be expected to heal over a flexible tube inserted from the nostril. This operation, or rather pharyngotomy, may be required, on account of substances impacted in the end of the pharynx, and where, from the inflammation and suppu- ration likely to be produced by them, and the necessity of inserting a tube from the nostril into the larynx, or opening, and preserving open, the larynx by laryngotomy, we calculate on more certain evil, than may follow extracting the substance. The first steps of the operation are similar to those for expos- ing the common carotid artery, and therefore I will not detail them here. The incision, if we have our choice, should be on the left side, as the tube rather inclines in that direction, but we must be regulated by the projection of the substance. We carry the incision from the side of the thy- roid to some way below the cricoid cartilage, and should make the extent rather free. W^e next dissect between these cartilages and thyroid gland on the one hand, and the carotid artery on the other, keeping rather nearer the artery, so that we are in less risk of cutting the branches of the thyroid artery, or injuring the recurrent nerve. Separ- ating the parts, we expose the distended pharynx and top of the oesophagus, and may easily open it if we cut on it fairly. But as it is connected to the vertebrae, and neighbouring