502 head of ihe fibula to the front of the ankle joint. The muscle keeps close by the tibia all the vvay. In the under third, its tendon keeps close to the shin, and extends not quite half an inch outward. I he tendon of the extensor digitoruni begins about the middle of the leg, and lower than this, perhaps within three inches, sometimes little more than two, above the joint, another tendon appears between it and that of the tibialis. This belongs to the extensor pollicis, which, if traced upward, is soon found to become muscular, and to sink backward between the other two muscles to the interosseus ligament and fibula, up to near its head. Thus, there are three distinct tendons near the ankle, but, higher, we see only two muscles, the third being sunk between these. The fibula is covered by a long line of muscle, in contact, in front, with the extensor digitorum, and behind, at the calf, slightly overlapped by the gastrocnemius. One portion of this ex- tends from the head of the fibula downward, to pass behind the ankle. It is somewhat vvedge-shaped, and at the thick- est part, in muscular subjects, may be an inch broad. From its length it is called the Peroneus longus, to distinguish it from another portion rising from rather more than the lower half of the fibula, and, if we look from behind, almost hid or covered by it. A little of its tendon appears at the margin of the longus. This, the brevis, is lodged between the longus, and extensor digitorum and the face of the bone; it is like an ante- rior layer. The tendon is covered by that of the longus, that is, it is anterior to it, especially at the ankle. There is a third and still shorter portion rising no higher than the lower third of the bone. It goes down between the brevis, and extensor digitorum, and sends its tendon along with that of the latter. It is named the peroneus tertius, but properly it is an ad- junct to the extensor. All these muscles may be best sepa- rated by tracing upwards from their tendons. Behind, we have, under the superficial fascia, a deeper and stronger layer, covering the gastrocnemius, and connecting it to the two bones all the way down. Even at the tendon it exists, and this cannot be defined till that be removed. If the gastrocnemius muscle be entirely cut off, we see a deeper