192 case the wound may either close, and an aneurismal tumour form, or the haemorrhage may return, after the wound has begun to suppurate. Even when the wound has been made with a spear, and entered also into the mouth, the haemorrhage, although great at first, has been suspended, in one case related by Mr. Collier, for five days. The treatment is plain. If an aneurismal tumour have formed, we must tie the carotid. If it have not, and the trunk be wounded, we shall require to tie both ends ; but if only the external carotid, or its branches have been wounded, retrograde hasmori'hage, if it occur, may be stopped by pressure, for it will be difficult, perhaps, in a lacerated wound, to expose the upper extremities. In Mr. Abernethy’s case the ligatures would not hold. I have just received from Dr. Paton of Paisley, an account of a case, where the internal jugular vein was penetrated by a piece of earthen ware, and a great quantity of blood was lost. The vein was exposed, and tied both above and below the wound; and although the boy had hooping-cough, yet he did well. The ligatui'e came away in ten days. An wound across the thyroid cartilage will divide the sterno-hyoidei, with some branches of the descendens noni, and either the hyo-thyroidei or sterno-thyroidei, according as it is higher or lower, for they meet not far from the middle of the cartilage. If near the lower margin, and the wound ffo along the side or inferior horn of the cartilage, the crico- thyroideus wall be injured. No part of the thyroid gland is touched, unless a little bit of the lower horn be interested. Some large branches of the thyroid artery are likely to be cut, and if the instrument sink dowm at the side the carotid will be opened, and probably the jugular vein. The cartilage is seldom cut through; but if the patient be not very old, and the razor be sharp, it does not require much force to divide it, and, then, the particular injury, done to the glottis, will depend, somewhat, on the direction of the wound, but it is always so disorganized that, even if the patient survived, the voice can never be perfectly recovered. At page 26, there is an account of the relation of parts here. In wounds, directly or remotely, affecting the cartilages, they are apt