319 head about the middle of the arm, to form the common trunk of the median. The Internal cutaneous, lies to the inside of the median, running, till below the middle of the arm, on the face of the brachial vein, or along one of its margins. If along the outer, it is a boundary between the vein and median nerve; if alono- the inner, it sometimes almost rests on the ulnar nerve. About two inches above the elbow joint, sometimes hiffher, it winds a little more backward, and divides into two branches; the smallest, goes down on the face of the inner condyle, in moreramuli than one; the largest, and outermost, also subdivides, and goes down by the median basilic vein, over the inner front of the fore-arm. Sometimes, near the axilla, a large branch is also given off, which soon becomes cutaneous, and runs down farther back than the trunk, or, about the middle of the arm, a branch runs beneath the brachial vein, inward to the face of the condyle. The Ulnar, for about half way down the arm, lies on the triceps, partly, to the inside of, and, partly, behind the other nerves and the vessels, generally behind the vein. Then, it divaricates inward and backwai’d, so as to get, at three inches above the peak of the condyle, behind the intermuscular lig- ament. The course of the nerve, as it proceeds to the con- dyle, may be marked by a line, drawn from the inside of the middle of the arm, to the back of the condyle. The profunda inferior accompanies it, and their relative situation will soon be noticed. This nerve, is always under the apon- eurosis of the arm, but in the lower half, it is enclosed as it were, in a sheath, by the aponeurosis which passes from the triceps to the brachieus, and sometimes a little above the joint, it is even covered by a thin fasciculus of the fibres of the triceps. Reaching the condyle, it passes behind it, cov- ered, and bound down, by a firm aponeurosis, which goes from the condyle and triceps over the nerve, as will be afterwards described. No branches are given off, by the ulnar nerve, in the arm.