m it is continued in the coiu’se, and under the name, of the posterior scapular artery. Its origin is fully three-quarters of an inch above the clavicle. It passes outward over the scalenus anticus, nerves, and scalenus posticus, and under the omo-hyoideus and trapezius. It gives off a division which runs higher, goes transversely over the scaleni and levator, and under the sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoideus, and trapezius. It winds to the back of the neck, and mounts up on the splenius. On removing the trapezius, it is seen coming round to the back of the neck, higher than the posterior scapular. It is called the superficial cervical, to distinguish it from one still deeper, the profunda, but it is far from being superficial, it is only so comparatively. It should not have been noticed yet, as it is a regular branch of the thyroid, had it not been from its connexion with the posterior scapular, where that has a thyroid origin. When the posterior scapular artery comes off from the subclavian, there is seldom a trans- versal is colli from the thyroid, but only the cervicalis superfi- cialis. The transversalis colli and posterior scapular artery, being one and the same in their distribution, do not require to arise twice, or come from two different sources in the same person. These scapular branches as I have described, may arise either from the subclavian or thyroid arteries. The next always arises from the subclavian, and goes to the back of the neck. It comes off from the upper and almost back part of the artex’y, which is betAveen the scaleni. It arises about three- eighths of an inch outward of the vertebral, and goes a little upward and then backward, sometimes on the face of the nerves, but generally between them, the first dorsal being below, and all the rest above it. It dives back between the transverse processes of the two last cervical vertebrae, at the inner margin of the scalenus posticus, ramifies, behind, on the deep layer of muscles, multifidus spina, &c. and anasto- moses with branches from the vertebral artery. It is well named the Cervicalis Profunda. The last muscular branch to be noticed, or cervicalis ascendens, is always of thyroid origin. It runs up on the scalenus anticus, sometimes to the very top of the neck, and