491 the tendinous implantation is continued along the divaricating linea aspera, as far as it goes, and a regular opening exists in this for the artery. In the former case, if matter formed, it would be more diffused toward the ham than in the latter. In this operation, the artery is exposed, more or less easily, according to the depth of fat, the general size of the thigh, and length of the incision ; but, particularly, according as the sartorius is drawn more or less extensively inward. The objection to the mode of operating here, is, that when matter forms, there is no dependent opening, and it is apt to spread. It has, therefore, been proposed to cut on the pubal, or posterior margin of the sartorius, between it and the gracilis. The direction of the margin of the gracilis, here, is in a line from the posterior edge of the inner condyle, upward, and slightly forward, as if it went to the pubal side of the femoral vein, at the ligament, or, to the face of the pectineus. This is, as nearly as may be, the course of the muscle at this part. The general line of the margin would lead to the groin^ at the pubis. The incision must be fully four inches long, and reaches to three above the condyle. The vena saphena is more forward or ilial than this. By attending to the course of the muscular fibres, after the fascia has been divided, and looking for a cellular line, between those which go straight down, and those which go obliquely in- ward, we may discover the separation, and, that once done, the sartorius is easily raised, and turned outward. The finger is carried on the face of the adductor, toward the vastus, in place of being conducted, as in the other operation, by the latter. The artery is deeper, from the surface of the wound, than in the former case, and, therefore, the operation is more severe. The only superiority, is that which depends on the discharge of matter. We do not willingly tie the artery above the origin of the profunda, but that may be necessary. A perpendicular incision, from two to three inches long, according to the thickness of the covering, is to be made, beginning about half an inch above the ligament, or a little higher, if the artery is to be tied close to it. The falciform process is