359 winds up by the outside of the biceps tendon on the brachieus, covered by the supinator longus, and having the radial nerve, partly on it, partly to its outside. It joins the spiral artery, and also gives twigs downward, to the extensores carpi radiales. The course of the Ulnar artery, cannot be described by one line. A thread stretched from the radial side of the pisiform bone, directly up to the inside of the coronoid process, is the nearest, but not quite correct. There are two portions of the artery, requiring two lines; one, where it may be easily exposed; another, where it is covered by muscles whicli cannot be separated, and there the course is more oblique. We cannot separate the superficial flexors from one another, higher than to three inches and a half below the peak of the inner condyle. Up to that, the artery is very nearly in the course of the radial margin of the flexor ulnaris, and this is marked by a line from the radial side of its tendon, to the peak of the inner condyle. From that part of the fore-arm, till its origin, the artery runs obliquely outward, and in the course of a line from the margin of the ulna, at that distance below the peak, to the inside of the biceps tendon. The artery, if it come off at the joint, lies first on the brachieus, but if a very little lower, it does not. It then passes down- ward and inward, and a little backward, betw'een the biceps tendon, and the small head of the pronator teres, traversing, for a short way, the tendinous insertion of the supinator brevis. It next, at fully an inch and a half below' the bend of the arm, passes between the tw'o heads, or in the fork, of the origin of the flexor sublimis, or sometimes goes through a part of its substance, to get on the flexor profundus, on which it continues to the wrist, where it passes over the annular ligament. As already mentioned, it, at first, is covered by the united belly of the flexors, till nearly four inches below the condyle. If we trace it dow’n from this, we find it is overlapped by the radial margin of the flexor ulnaris; but less, as we proceed downw'ard. It is also first beneath, then, partly overlapped, but not quite covered by the margin of the flexor sublimis. At nearly an inch and