361 the extensor secuncii internodii pollicis, bounded by the other extensor of the thumb, accompanied by the posterior branch of the radial nerve. Both, are covered by the extensor communis, and pass at the wrist, under the annular ligament. This is the principal muscular artery on the back of the fore-arm. The ulnar gives off in front several irregular branches to the muscles. The veins require no farther description. The subcutaneous Nerves, are. First, a branch given off from the spiral, sometimes as high as the margin of the latissimus dorsi. It winds round behind the bone, between the first and second heads of the triceps, comes down the outside of the arm, by the margin of the triceps and supinator, and then descends on the condyle, on the outer edge of the supinator. Presently, it gets more backward, on the extensor radialis, winding to the back of the arm, and reaching almost to the utmost side of the wrist. It runs farther back than the exter- nal cutaneous. It is called by some, the posterior, or supe- rior, external cutaneous nerve. A smaller division of this, or a separate branch from the spiral, passes out, lower, between the third head of the triceps and supinator, or it perforates the anterior margin of that muscle, goes down, first, on its margin, and then it winds down to the wrist, by the outer margin of the radius and of the cephalic vein. At the condyle it is more inward or forward than the larger branch. Second, The external cutaneous comes out from beneath the biceps, about an inch and a half above the joint, covered by the cephalic vein. It descends by the inner or anterior margin of the supinator longus, therefore not quite in the median line of the fore-arm, between the median and cephalic veins, generally by the inner margin of the former, consequently it is more ulnar, or forward, than the spiral branch. For about the upper third of the fore-arm, it descends on the inner margin of the supinator. Then, it winds a little outward, so as to get on the tendon of the supinator; then, a little above the wrist, it is on that of the extensor metacarpi pollicis, winding to the outside of the root of the thumb. It continues on, by its outer margin, and also