80 subclavian almost along with the duct. Sometimes the duct divides at the margin of the jugular vein, into two branches, one, follows the usual course, the other, extends more outward on the scalenus muscle, and enters the subclavian vein behind the entrance of the external jugular. The duct lies on the longus colli. The recurrent nerve runs up by its inner margin and that of the carotid. If we separate, a little, the carotid and jugular vein, we see the ramus thyroideus ascending obliquely inward, the duct descending outwardly on its face, and cover- ing the axis thyroidea, or if that be a little more outward, the duct rests on the vertebral vein. The eighth nerve descends over both the duct and the ramus thyroideus. The sympa- thetic nerve also descends over the ramus and behind the duct. From this, it appears that the operation of extirpating a deep tumour above the left clavicle must be very dangerous, and that of applying a ligature to the carotid here, will require great care that the sheath be not pierced either at its sides or back. The needle must always be kept within the sheath. A mere puncture, or even a small slit-wound of the duct, might be expected to heal, if the neighbouring parts did not inflame much and involve it in disease ; but, on this point I have made no experiments. A lacerated wound, or a liga- ture, could not fail to be fatal; for, even w’hen it divides into two branches, it is a single trunk in the district of the carotid artery. It may be necessary to tie the carotid very near the clavicle previous to the extirpation of a large tumour in the neck, or in consequence of an wound, which leaves us no choice. But it is not advisable in cases of aneurism. In these, if the ligature require to be applied very low, it would be better to tie the artery, if possil^le, above the tumoui’, for aneurism of this vessel is better adapted tlian that of almost any other for such an operation; but even here, if the disease do not extend so near the clavicle as to render it unlikely that obliteration of the artery, below the ligature, shoidd take place, the vessel should be tied in the usual way. The common carotid is most easily exposed and tied, as it traverses the laryngeal cartilages. The operation is by no means difficult to perform, but it is often dangerous in its