505 depression on the upper surface of the os calcis. This is called the anterior annular ligament, though it be quite contin- uous with the aponeurosis. In its course over the ante- rior tendons, at the ankle, it, at the margin of each, dips down to be fixed to the bone, and also sends a layer under the individual tendon, which thus is lodged in a fixed sheath, or short canal, lined by the synovial covering of the tendons. Behind, the aponeurosis extends from ankle to ankle, cover- ing and' bracing the tendo-Achilles, which also has its own covering. The aponeurosis is thick and fibrous, and covers every thing. Like the fascia in fi’ont, it forms canals for the tendons, and is called the internal annular ligament. Adhering firmly to the inner ankle, it extends backward over the tendon of the tibialis posticus, where it becomes fixed to the bone. It then passes over the flexor digitorum, and becomes again fixed, then it passes over the tendon of the flexor pollicis, and is fixed to the ridge at the posterior sur- face of the astragalus. Thus the tendons are prevented from slipping. If we trace these canals thus formed, upward, we find that they are strong and fibrous, to the end of the shaft above the ankle, when they are lost in the finer individual aponeurosis of the muscles. A prolongation is in like manner traced toward the insertion of the tendon, but presently be- comes indistinct. The synovial membrane of the tendon, lines each of these canals, whether long or short. The floor is formed by the cartilaginous surface of the bone covered by synovial membrane. At the outer ankle, the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis are bound down in a common canal, in the same way, by the strong aponeurosis extending from the fibula to the os calcis. Ihe order of the tendons at the ankle, is this. In front, close by the tibia, is that of the tibialis anticus. It winds inward over the face of the naviculare, then, under the short muscles going to the great toe, and is implanted into the side and under surface of the cuneiforme internum, and partly pro- longed to the metatarsal bone. About three-eighths of an inch farther out, is the tendon of the extensor pollicis, which runs directly on to the first, and, thence, to the second phalanx.