403 from Poiipart. We do not touch the ovarian artery, unless we go up for two and a half or three inches. I'he artery is now felt under the finger, but not always seen, for it is covered, or traversed, by the circuinflexa vein, w’hich runs outward ; but, besides this, very often, glands, perhaps enlarged, lie on the artery, and hide it for a considerable way up. We must either raise or remove these glands, and, by insulating the artery, and tying it an inch back from the ligament, we avoid the circumflex vein. If we tie it near the ligament, the vein must be drawn down, whilst we insulate the artery. The epigastric vessels, at the same time, are pressed inward. The artery lies at no great depth in the w'ound. Indeed, when the muscles and peritonaeum are drawn up, it appears almost superficial, and, therefore, it is very easily tied. If the in- testines press down the peritonaeum much, it occupies less room to keep it up with flat, pliable retractors, than with the fingers. Elevating the pelvis, may assist us, except in so far as the descent, or protrusion, depends on the action of the abdominal muscles. As the vein lies close by its inside, the blunt needle should be introduced between them, cautiously, and carried outward, and no attempt is to be made to pass it, till the artery be insulated, by slitting up its sheath. We thus avoid, also, injuring the genito-crural nerve, which is not likely to be raised with the peritonaeum. This nerve, which divides, at least, into two branches, is first to the ilial side of the artery, covered, perhaps, by the spermatic vessels. T.he outermost, and largest branch, continues in that relation, and need not be disturbed; but the innermost, or that which passes out with the cord, is generally on the face of the artery, at the spot where it is to be tied. It must, on no account, be included in the ligature; and, therefore, it must either be raised or cut across. T. he ligature does not require to be large; one end is to be cut off, and then the lips of the wound kept together by adhesive plaster. Simple as this operation is, it may be mismanaged, even if the incisions be made correctly. For, if we do not raise the peritonaeum fiom the face of the artery, in the proper direction—namely, towaid the sacro-iliac symphysis, but carry the finger inward,