386 and metacarpal bone of the index, on the front of which it rests, and then it crosses the interossei, to form the deep arch, which lies under the flexor tendons, and extends to the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it com- municates with the ulnar artery. This arch, crosses about half an inch below the articulation of the thumb with the trapezium, and, at an average, about two inches and a half above the web, or junction, of the fingers. The branches of the radial artery are very simple. First, we have the two dorsals of the thumb, which come off just when the artery has, turned back, under the extensor ossis metacarpi, and these run along the two margins of the back of the metacarpus and bones of the thumb. Second, from the front of the artery, whilst it is deep between the two metacarpal bones, the magna pollicis is sent off, which runs close by the metacarpal bone, buried between the abductor pollicis and abductor indicis. At the end of the metacarpal bone, it is found just behind the tendon of the long flexor, and soon after this, it divides into two branches, one running along each side of the phalanges. Third, on the metacarpal bone of the forefinger, the radialis indicis is given off, which runs down by the radial side of the forefinger, and also anastomoses with the magna pollicis. But, sometimes it is as large as the con- tinuation of the trunk which forms the arch, and in that case it also sends a large branch, which, at the end of the meta- carpal bone, divides into two, one, for the ulnar side of the forefinger, the other, for the radial side of the mid-finger. Lastly, the continuation of the radial artery, or the deep arch, runs deeply across the metacarpal bones and interossei, in the situation already described, and, we may say, either, that nearly in a line with the unciform bone, it tin ns up by the ulnar side of that bone to join the ulnar, or, that the ulnar artery sends down, in that direction, its communicating branch to join the radial. The deep arch sends down small branches to the interossei, but they do not go to the fingers. The ulnar artery, having given off its carpal branches, passes down on the face of the carpal ligament, close by the