48 the sternal end of the clavicle, and at this part, not only covers the carotid artery, hut stretches to the margin of the internal jugular vein. But often it is not so broad, and fascia, with some muscular fibres, are found to extend in its place. At the lower part, it shelves quite below the sterno-mastoid, that muscle lying there both over it and the sterno-hyoideus, ex- cept on their very front. Even higher, the sterno-mastoid still lies over part of the sterno-thyroideus, and sometimes of the sterno-hyoideus. It is connected by firm fiiscia to the sterno- thyroideus, and this must be divided before we can get between them to the parotid artery. The two sterno-thyroidei are not in contact at the upper part, but gradually approach, and meet each other at least an inch above the sternum. We are apt to mistake the implantation of the cervical fiiscia into the clavicle for part of the origin of the sterno-thyroideus; but on cutting this, we trace the muscle lower, even to the second rib, and its sternal origin is not fully displayed, till the sterno- hyoideus be raised. It sometimes extends as a thin muscular sheet for an inch outward from the sterno-clavicular articula- tion. In such operations as require this muscle to be dis- played and divided, we must remember, that at the margin of the sternum it lies pretty deep between the extremities of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It is three quarters of an inch deep from the face of the margin of the sternum. The omo-hyoideus, except at its very upper part, is covered by the sterno-mastoid, and at the lower part winds out- ward by the outer mai'gin of the sterno-thyroideus, as if to strengthen and extend it. For half an inch, sometimes more, above the clavicle, the sterno-thyroideus covers the carotid artery, whicli cannot be seen till this muscle be raised or turned forward; and as in certam individuals the omo-hyoideus does not decussate the artery till we come so low, it may con- tinue to be covered with these muscles for nearly half way up the neck. The direction, however, and breadth of the omo- hyoideus is variable. Very often it is five-eighths of an inch broad. It arises from the upper costa of the scapula, about an inch from the angle, or three quarters of an inch from the root of the coracoid process. It comes up from behind the