9 being filled with a substance like platysma myoides. If we next remove the levator, we see a deeper portion of the splenius going to the transverse processes of the neck, and not to the head. Tliis is the splenius colli, a little bit of which, at the lower part, is overlapped by the splenius capitis. Tlie sple- nius is also covered near the scapula by a thin, aponeurotic, and glistening sheet of muscle, which passes over it, and under the levator at this part, to be inserted into from the second to the fifth rib inclusive. It is the serratus posticus superior, and if tins and the levator be removed, the splenii are exposed, and seen to be tliick, fleshy, and rounded at the lower part. On removing the splenii, a deeper layer is displayed, the upper part of which, or part of the complexus, had been already seen in the divarication of the splenii. The com- plexus is a firm solid mass of muscle, intermixed with tendon, extending fi-om the spinous to the transverse processes, and up to the occiput. It is not quite exposed by removing the splenii, for the lateral part, that nearest the transverse pro- cesses, is covered by that narrow, and at the under half, thin sheet of muscle, the trachelo-mastoideus. This is strength- ened at the side by the transversalis colli, which is so inter- mixed with it, that it is difficult to separate them, and without impropriety, the one may be considered as an addition to the otlier. The transversalis, in its turn, is aided by a muscular slip running by its outside, called cervicalis descendens. If we next turn off the trachdo with these, its lateral additions, we display the whole complexus, and imagine that now we have finished the dissection, by exposing a mass of muscle extending between the spinous and transverse prpcesses, and filling the space, between these, completely up to the head. But on divid- ing the insertion of the complexus at the occiput, and dissecting it down, we find still a deeper layer, which it will be well to divide into that portion which is above, and that which is below, the second vertebra or dentata. The upper portion consists of those short muscles which have been already noticed, the recti, obliqui, &c. The under portion is larger, and more indistinct, resembling a confused mass of flesh and tendinous intersection, buried beneath the complexus, in the hollow