3 or neck, in the space which would be otherwise vacant between the two sterno-m^stoid muscles. They may be divided into those which go upward from the apparatus to the jaw, tongue, and styloid process of the temporal bone; those which go downward, and connect it with the chest, and those which go from one cartilage to another. Some of the first division O radiate at different angles, and some are pretty deep. Those of the second division are more superficial, and most of them run perpendicularly, or at small angles. The bones themselves are united by intervertebral sub- stance, and kept togetheiv by powerful bands, which do not 1‘equire to be here minutely described, but which, neverthe- less, must not be altogether overlooked. First of all, the atlas is connected to the skull by the capsules, which, on each side, extend from the margins of its articulating surfaces, to those of the occipital condyles. Then, a strong annular ligament, connects the upper rim of the atlas, with that of the foramen magnum. It is not strictly speaking annular, for the capsules of the sides supply its place there, and in them it is lost. It is therefore divided into an anterior and posterior portion. Thus, the space between the atlas and foramen magnum is completely shut up, there is no vacancy. There are, indeed, two small apertures behind, through which the sub-occipital nerves pass out, but by these they are completely filled. The vertebral artery does not require to perforate this; for, emerg- ing from the hole in the transverse process, it runs backward in the groove on the vertebra, between the annular ligament externally, and the dura mater internally, which thus encloses the artery here. But it enters the cranium so abruptly, and turns so directly up at the root of the back part of the articu- lating process, that the canal thus formed is very short. The dura mater is open here to receive the artery, and is lost in the canal. Farther, a broad expansion of fibrous substance extends from the foramen magnum down the front of the vertebrae, called the anterior longitudinal fascia, whilst a simi- lar one, called the posterior, descends along the back of the bodies within the spinal canal. That portion of the vertebrae, which comprehends their arch behind, and processes, has an