114 iiiecl with slight numbness, or weakness of the inlerior extre- mities, I have known cured by an issue between the shoulders. I have seen little good from blisters. If the affection be not soon removed, those organs which are supplied, even partially, by nerves from the seat of tlie disorder, may, after being disordered in their functions, become organically diseased; and many cases of consumption, I believe, arise in this way, as well as enlai’gement and indu- ration of the liver. I was some time ago consulted respecting a lady, who had, in going out of a room, struck her bonnet against the top of a low door; Her head was suddenly bent back, and she felt an uneasiness at the joining of the neck and head. From that hour she never had health. She had tenderness in the part, more or less wheezing and cough, but no paralytic symp- toms. Presently she began to expectorate pus, and died consumptive. The connexion between the symptoms and the exciting cause was evident, not only from the immediate production of the disease; but also from pressure on the spot invariably producing wheezing, and either cough, or inclination to vomit. An issue did no good, but had it been applied early, it is probable that it would have cured her. A modification of this disease presents different symptoms. There is headach, with extreme sensibility to light or sound, and so excitable a condition of the system, that the least noise produces universal spasms, ending in a state of insensibility, not s5mcope, for the pulse is quite perceptible. In this state of insensibility, with a pale face, and breathing scarcely per- ceptible, the patient lies, for perhaps ten minutes or more, and then begins to moan a little, or sigh, and soon rouses up. Many such attacks may thus be produced in the course of the day, or without any noise or evident cause, at a certain hour, once or twice a day, the paroxysm comes on, with starting, universal shaking, rapid motion of the extremities in succession, tetanic spasm of the back, going off by earns, or by being placed erect, which causes insensibility, even when there is no existing convulsion. Some degree of insanity often attends this. I have tried various remedies without much effect;