234 1 he tendo oculi bifurcates, and is continued into each of them. From this point, the eyelids form an angle toward the nose, traversed by the tendon, and in which is situated the caruncula and membrana nictitans or valve. The edge of this angle, is formed by dense cellular substance, by the bi- furcation of the tendon, and the ducts. The Puncta, are seated just at the end of the tarsal liga- ments in both eyelids, and before the angle at the canthus begins. They are easily discovered, for they are placed in a very small tubercle. Both ducts run,’for a little way, in a verti- cal direction, the one up, the other down, and, then, they each traverse their respective margins of the angle, and enter separately or conjoined, into the middle, upper, and outer parts of the sac. The Sac, is lodged in a hollow, formed, partly, by the outer and posterior side of the nasal process of the maxillary bone, and, partly, by the anterior part of the os unguis. It is about three-eighths of an inch long, and three-sixteenths broad, at its middle, for it is somewhat oval. It consists of a mucous membrane, forming a sac, which is covered in front, or above, by a firm membrane or aponeurosis, adherent to the margin of the bony cavity. The sac extends, just so much, above the tendon of the orbicularis, that a probe introduced from the duct, is seen merely to raise it above the mat'gin of the tendon. It is covered by the orbicularis, and cannot be open- ed till this also be cut. The upper part of the sac, ends very nearly about the transverse line, going from canthus to canthus, and the under end, terminates, at that part of the orbitar edge of the nasal process, which is in a line up from the front, or, at most, the outer margin of the second incisor. It is readily found by feeling for the orbitar ridge of the nasal process, of the max- illary bone, at the internal canthus, where the tendon of the orbicularis crosses, and for three-eighths of an inch downward and outward. If an incision be made to that extent, just behind the edge of the bone, winding downward and outward, the sac, in its whole extent, must be opened. If an incision be made any lower, or more outward, behind, or even on, the