70 more, il well cleaned. Tlie face of the artery, must vary with the natural depth of the trachea, from the margin of the bone. If uninjected, it is sometimes three quarters of an inch from the margin ; if full, it may be half an inch, or less. The very margin of the bone, is a quarter of an inch thick, but it slopes or swells backward, so that very soon it is half an inch thick, and the sterno-hyoidei and thyroidei are not attached, strictly, to the very margin, but a little lower, and wiU appear more or less deep, according as we start more or less strictly from the margin. Their surface, when relaxed, is, in an adult male, about three quarters of an inch back from the face of the bone. They soon pass over the oblique innominata, and the artery here must be deeper from the face of the bone than the sterno-hyoidei and thyroidei, by the thickness of these muscles, and the cellular substance behind them, which connects them to the sheath of the vessel. If we examine just above the innominata, there is sometimes a thickness of more than half an inch between the muscles and the trachea. On dividing these muscles, we find that they are lined with a firm fascia, which goes down to the inside of the sternum and clavicle, and also sends a reflection up, over the face of the innominata, to the trachea and thyroid gland. Till this lining be cut, the artery cannot be touched, and even then it is in a sheath. Both the artery and the vein are in distinct sheaths, adherent, how- ever, to one another, and to the lining of the inside of the sternum. The sheath of the innominata divides, at the bifur- cation, into one for the subclavian, and another for the carotid artery. On slitting it open, the finger can then be pushed, along the vessel, to the aorta between the pleurae. The pleura comes up as high on each side, as the margin of the first rib, consequently ascends higher behind than before; and this oblique surface, whenever the vessels, &c. do not fill the space, is covered, as we have seen, by an expansion of fascia, which is intimately connected with the sheath of the vessels and trachea. So long as we keep withm the sheath of the innominata, we are in no danger of injuring the pleura. We also do not directly touch the great cardiac nerve, which, on the right side,