461 the side and back of the head of the fibula, and also sends an expansion obliquely down over the origin of the peroneus longus. The inner portion seems at first to consist chiefly of one muscle, tlie semitendinosus, rising along with the biceps. It is almost united with it for a hand’s breadth below the tuberosity, and continues attached to it till about halfway down the thigh, when it divaricates a little, and presently still more, to get to the inner side of the ham. On drawing it a little aside, and dissecting upward, from a second tendon that we see, a deeper muscle, to which that belongs, and which had been covered by it, is exposed. This is the semi- membranosus, arising, also, from the tuberosity, but more forward. The margin of this muscle, for more than half way up the thigh, is seen between the semitendinosus and gracilis. On removing the strong fascia, at the ham, we see the tendons. On the outside, that of the biceps, with still some muscular fibres, passes down the back, and partly the side, of the condyle, to the head of the fibula. It is bound to the outer origin of the gastrocnemius by fascia. On the inside, that of the semitendinosus is nearest the median line. It goes down to the head of the tibia, bound to the inner origin of the gastrocnemius. Next, we have that of the semimembranosus, in a manner hid by the other, implanted more inward, and not quite so low. That of the gracilis is still more inward, and goes more forward, on the tibia. The sartorius is muscular over the condyle; then its tendon goes still more forward. That of the triceps is hid by this muscle. The whole thigh is covered by a fascia, very strong at the outside, less so elsewhere. We shall understand it better if we trace it round from the outside, under the rectus, and over the vastus externus, crureus, vastus internus, triceps, and flexors, behind, round again to the outside. We shall thus see that it covers, and binds together, all these muscles, and also passes under the great femoral vessels, as it goes from the vastus to the adductors, whilst another layer passes over them. Next, we find, that it not only attaches the two margins of the rectus to the vastus, but a layer can be traced