245 and passes out, over the prolabia, to the common skin. It is more easily separated, from the upper part of the orbicu- laris, and other muscles, than near the edge of the lip. It turns over this edge, and ends in the skin. A frenum is formed, by the membrane, within each lip. The artery runs nearer the inner, than the outer, surface of the lip, and rami- fies minutely. On dissecting off the mucous membrane lin- ing the lips, we find, all the way, from near the gums, between the membrane and the inner surface of the orbicu- laris, and extending over the prolabia, a distinct sheet of glandular follicles, imbedded in cellular substance. Many of these, are as large as canary seeds, soft, and of a dull pearl colour, like those at the root of the tongue. They are deficient at, and within, the angle of the mouth. They are much larger, and more numerous, on the lower, than upper, prolabium, which is one reason, for the greater frequency of cancer there, and, from the situation of the follicles, the disease is at first superficial, and the affected spot covered with a scab, some- times thin, sometimes elevated. When this is removed, the surface is sore, fiery, and irregular or granulated, from the enlargement and alteration of the follicles. It may continue long in this state, increasing very slowly, or, the margin of the sore may become thickened and indurated, the base also distinctly scirrhous. The sore spreads, either, toward the angle of the mouth, or, toward both sides, and also becomes deeper. The lymphatic glands swell, so that hard tumours, of various size, are formed under the chin, or toward the angle of the jaw, bound by the angular ligament and platysma, and sometimes connected with the periosteum of the jaw. So long as the lymphatic glands are sound, we may hope for benefit from an operation, and if so much of the prolabium be affected, as would make it difficult to brine: the surface O together, in the usual way, the whole diseased parts may be cut off, the vessels secured, and the inner membrane, and outer skin, kept in contact, by two or three stitches. The lip, though, at first, very deficient, improves by time. When the membrane of the prolabium is destroyed, by any cause, the follicles are seen, giving the surface an appearance