It rises from the coronoid process, where the brachieus is inserted, botli from its root and sides, and from the radial side, front, and inner ridge of the ulna, as fur down as the pronator quadratus; from the interosseous ligament, and even from the ulnar margin of the radius, or at least it is connected with it, from the termination of the supinator brevis, down- ward, to the pronator quadratus. At the outside, and on the face of the radius, there seems to be a distinct, thick, and broad fasciculus of the same muscle, connected with what looks like its outermost tendon. But this has a separate origin and insertion. It is the flexor longus pollicis. It rises from the face, and ulnar side, of the radius from its tubercle, down to the pronator quadratus, covers the front of the radius, and overlaps the flexor profundus to a considerable extent. Altogether it is about three quarters of an inch broad. It is separated from the supinator brevis, by the thin radial origin of the flexor sublimis, as if by a partition. Lastly, raising the flexor profundus, vve see the pronator quadratus, which begins to rise from the ulna, about two inches and a half above the end of the bone, down to a quarter of an inch of its extremity. It is, therefore, at the ulna, above two inches broad, but it is rather narrower at the radius. When this, and the flexor profundus, are scraped off, we see the inter- osseous ligament, which rises from the ulnar margin of the radius, just below tbe insertion of the oblique ligament, and is inserted into the radial margin of the ulna. It extends down to the very end of the interosseous space, identified there with the junction of the bones, and reflected forward at that junction, both to their face, and also to the margin of the pronator quadratus. It must obviously be deficient, for a small space, at the top, between the neck of the radius and ulna. In this space, is the tendon of the biceps, part of the brachieus, cellular substance, &c.; and if a probe be pressed down here, it will touch, behind, part of the supinator brevis. In the space between the interosseous and oblique ligaments, the arteria interossea passes backward. There is, also, a well defined oval opening in the ligament, a little above the pro- nator quadratus, for the transmission of a division of the