subdivides into three; one comes downward and inward to tlie fat and cellular substance on the tracheti, and sends a small artery up the inner margin of the scalenus. This branch is the tracheal artery, and it must be divided in some of its ramifications in bronchotomy; a second, or middle branch, often the largest of the whole, mounts obliquely up- ward and inward to the gland. It is the ramus thyroideus, and passes behind some of the branches of the sympathetic nerve, and receives an accompanying plexus of fibrillae from it. It passes behind, or a very little below', the middle ganglion, from which ramidi are given off, that, accompany- ing the branches of the artery, descend on its front, and thence on the face of the subclavian artery. On the left side it passes behind the thoracic duct, between it and the longus colli. On looking at the gland, it is apparently sup- plied chiefly by the superior artery, but, on examination, the inferior is found often still longer. It curls beneath the carotid, and down to the lower exti'emity and under surface of the gland, as if it were going to the cellular substance on the trachea, and then it turns up on the under surface of the gland. It is seen here by turning the carotid outward. The thyroid is large in children, and is rarely wanting. The superior thyroid may be small, or may not exist on one or both sides; but there is always an inferior thyroid, though, in rare cases, it may be solitary, arising from the aorta or inno- minata, and running up the front of the trachea. A third, or outer ramus, runs up the scalenus by the inside of the phrenic nerve. It is the cervicalis ascendens. From the under or fore part of the axis, there goes off the U’ansversalis liumeri, or supra-scapular, under the circumstances already explained We now understand the distribution of vessels here. From the thyroid axis, arising from the subclavian, w'e have the transversalis humeri, or superior scapular artery; the ramus thyroideus, with its tracheal branch; the cervicalis ascendens, and cervicalis superficialis. From tlie subclavian we have, the vertebral, the posterior scapular, and the cervicalis profunda. But there is this difference, in certain cases, that the posterior scapular may come from the thyroid, as transversalis colli,