517 is applied to the back of the astragalus, which is detached from both malleoli, if these be not broken off, and carried with -the bone. The toes are pointed downward and inward. To reduce, the leg should be fixed, and extension made by the foot and heel. When this has been done, we add flexion of the foot forward, to roll the tibia over the astragalus, at the same time that we press that bone strongly inwards. If the astragalus be dislocated inward, the projection rests on the naviculare, and forms a prominence on the inner margin of the foot, whilst there is a depression under the end of the fibula. The toes are turned out, from the tibia twisting in- ward. The under part of the astragalus, still rests on the extremity of the os calcis. In attempting to reduce, we pull the foot, and then flex it as in the former case, whilst we press strongly backward and upward. If we press outward, we only force it against the side of the os calcis. If the re- duction cannot be accomplished, it would be better to remove the bone than let it remain. The tibia then rests on the os calcis. In compound luxation, this is still more warrantable. , There is a modification of this dislocation, in which the astragalus remains properly attached to the tibia and fibula, but is dislocated from the os calcis and naviculare. In this case, the toes are turned very much inward. To reduce, make extension, and turn the toes out. If the foot be strongly twisted downward, or outward, the os calcis, and astragalus, may be separated from thecuboides and naviculare. One half of the os calcis, rests on the arti- culating surface of the naviculare. The astragalus projects, to the same degree, over the inner margin of the naviculare, and, especially, if this last be in any degree separated from the cuneiform bone, the heel is bent down. In a case of this kind described by Sir Astley Cooper, the appearance was very like club foot. To reduce, make extension, and twist the foot upward, or inward. I he internal cuneiform bone may be displaced upward, and inward, producing a projection in that direction. It is to be pressed into its situation, and retained by a compress and band^ age. Ihe foot is to be turned up, to relax the tibialis aiiticus.