52 hyoiilei not meet closely in front. The whole length of the belly is fully two inches. It is attached to the front and side ot the os hyoides, to about an inch from the end of the horn, or an inch and a half from the angle of the jaw. In the very obtuse angle formed by the two bellies is seen the mylo- hyoideus sloping downward and foi'ward. The posterior belly has the stylo-hyoideus lying on its upper surface, as if wrap- ped over it, and presently it almost encircles, so that, above the horn of the os hyoides, it liides it; but farther forward, the tendon of the digastric becomes visible, emerging from below it. At this part, namely, near the junction of the body and horn of the os hyoides, the stylo-hyoideus often splits into two parts, one running before, the other behind, the tendon of the digastric, which is also bound down to the os hyoides by a ligamentous expansion or sheath, acting like a pulley. If we press in a probe, just at the peak or angle of the jaw, we graze the inferior margin of the digastric. If we introduce it three quarters of an inch above the peak, we generally touch the upper margin, or rather that of the stylo-hyoideus, which is lying on it. We also come on the point of the styloid pro- cess, and on the carotid arteiy, as it is commg up from behind these muscles. The digastric is, in one respect, a superficial muscle, but its posterior belly really hes deep, in relation to the angle of the jaw. If we turn off the skin and platysma myoides, we easily see the muscle, but it is an inch in from the inner surface of the angle of the jaw, and forms the exte- rior muscular defence to the root of the tongue, and side of the pharynx. Immediately above the digastric, and somewliat deeper, are the three styloid muscles. The stylo-hyoideus, in a surgical point of view, may be considered merely as an addition to the posterior belly of the digastric, to which it is united by cellu- lar substance, so that the one may be found by the other. It arises from the styloid process, and the posterior, or .outer sur- face of the styloid membranous expansion. It does not touch tlie os hyoides so soon as the digastric, being above it. The stylo-glossus, is a little deeper and higher in its course, althouo-h it arise a little lower, namely, from the end of the