299 pectoral muscle, and also more in the proper cavity of the axilla, all the way to the clavicle, following, nearly the tract of the vein, and, near the clavicle, lying on its face, so that if we require to extirpate them, from a high situation, much care would be required in tearing, or detaching them, from the vein, lest that be injured. There are no lymphatic glands discernible in, or on, the substance of the breast. Small moveable tumours, are, more probably, indurated portions of the mamma, or new for- mations, in the cellular substance, than glands. At the fold of the pectoral muscle, an induration, may either be a part of the breast, which reaches there, or one of the lowest glands. The breast is supplied with blood, from the thoracica superior, intercostals, and mammaria interna, the minute branches of which, come out of the pectoralis major, and pierce the fascia. But, the principal supply is from the axilla, by the mammaria externa, which we have seen enters the breast, by different divisions, some, close by the inside of the pectoral fold, others, lower on the side. The injected artery is found to ramify, chiefly, in the cellular substance of the breast, pierce its external fascia, and run over it, under the skin. The veins form areolae on the surface, and also arise from the deeper cellular tissue, and run toward the axilla, where they form either one or two large branches, accompanying the mammary artery. The largest vein often comes from the lower margin of the breast. The nerves of the upper part of the surface, are continuations of the supra-clavicular. Deeper twigs, come from the anterior and posterior thoracic nerves, through the muscles. One or more long slender branches, accompany the vessels, from the upper part of the axillary nerves, but the most distinct are the intercostal branches, which come out between the ribs, in the axilla, forming what are called the intercosto-humeral nerves. All of these are sub- ject to neuralgia, sometimes dependent on the state of the spinal cord, sometimes, on the condition of enlarged glands in the axilla, sometimes, on that of the nervous extremities themselves, either without visible change, or connected with small tumours. The connexion of the breast witli the sympa- thetic nerve, seems to be only by filaments, sent from the