483 muscles, covered by the sartorius and rectus. On drawing this last inward, and the tensor outward, the artery is seen on the crureus, dividing into three sets of branches, each accompanied by a double vein. The strictly circumflex, or transverse, pass across the crureus and vastus,pierce the tendon of the gluteus maximus, and become superficial. Some, deeper, enter the vastus externus, and get close to the bone, below the great trochanter, anastomosing with the internal circumflex, and descending branches, from the ischiatic and gluteal arteries. The ascending, mount under the tensor, and anastomose with the gluteal. The descending are large, and go down into the extensor muscles, some even to the knee, where they inosculate with the ramus anastomoticus. One runs down on the under surface of the rectus, others on the vastus externus, covered by the tensor and its fascia. It is an important artery in the supply of the thigh. The internal circumflex, which is smaller, comes off, some- times, a little higher, but, generally, lower than the external. It passes inward, behind the femoral artery and vein, and then backward, between the tendon of the psoas and the pectineus, covered by the femoral vein. If it come off lower, it passes between the pectineus and adductor brevis. From behind, it is seen on separating the quadratus from the adductor magnus; but we must, to see it there, displace the lower portion of the gluteus maximus, and the sciatic nerve. In its course, it sends branches to the superior adductors, gracilis, and perinaeum—one to the articulation, and others to anastomose with the obturator. It next is divided into two sets of branches; one, more transverse, winds backward, between the quadratus and adductor maximus, to the gluteus maximus, and upper part of the flexors, and anastomoses with the neighbouring branches; another, not so large, goes more upward and outward, toward the trochanteric fossa, is distributed to the external obturator, and muscles at the inside of the thigh. It also anastomoses with the obturator, the exernal circumflex, and glutea. Next, the profunda sends off the first perforating branch, which goes backward, between the pectineus and brevis, or