376 In the more difficult dislocation of the radius, backward, the same projections, but reversed, will take place. The flexors are much stretched. The extensors of the thumb somewhat, hut not so much as in the former case, the fingers are bent, and the hand slightly extended. The degree to which the hand, in either case, is twisted, will depend much on the extent and direction of the laceration. The I’eduction is accomplished by extension and pressure, with sometimes a little torsion, in a direction reverse from that to which the hand is inclined; afterwards, a splint and roller are to be applied, so as to keep the hand in its proper position. Dupuytren says, that, in all cases of supposed dislocation, the injury is really fracture of the end of the radius, and requires to be treated as such. There is certainly nothing so peculiar in the construction of the wrist joint, as posi- tively to prevent luxation; and, therefore, independent of any actual specimen of the injury, we should not be prepared to admit his sweeping proposition. On the other hand, it must be confessed, that a too ready admission of the frequency of luxation has prevented that careful examination, by dis- section, which could have established the real nature of some reported instances. I believe that, in not a few cases, both oblique fracture, and dislocation, are conjoined. The ulna may be dislocated, especially forward. When the displacement is complete, the hand is in a state, intermediate, between pronation and supination, and, the lower part of the forearm beins: lessened in its diameter, is more rounded. The end of the ulna is felt projecting in front, whilst, there is a hol- low behind, if the swelling be not considerable. The lateral ligament, and implantation of the interarticular cartilage at the styloid process, are torn, as well as the capsule. The quadratus is stretched, or torn. The tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris, if it do not start from its canal, must be stretched. So is the ulnar end of the posterior annular liga- ment. The posterior end of the articulating surface of the ulna, for the sigmoid hollow of the radius, lies on the side of the face of the radius, and the styloid process on the face of