4J5 a level with the outer surface of the bone. They begin a little above the end of the bulb of the urethra, and are nearly an inch and a quarter long before they meet. The erector rises lower from the margin of the ramus by tendino-mus- cular fibres. These, as they go upward, are thin and tendinous at the ramus, the muscular part being in front, and also wind- ing round the corpus cavernosus, and down to the triangular fascia, and its continuation, and to the inner margin of the ramus, thus inclosing that part of the corpus which is not in absolute contact with the bone, as in a sheath. It overlaps somewhat the accelerator, which cannot be fully seen till it be drawn outward. The two muscles are in contact, therefore, as far as the accelerator goes; but the erector extends a little farther back. The angle, or vacancy, between the rounded part of the former and the continuation of the latter, is filled b}^ the oblique muscle, called transversalis perinaei, which is really an adjunct to the accelerator, steadying its termina- tion, and enabling it to contract more efficiently on the urethra. At, or just behind the origin of the erector, not far from the tuberosity, the transversalis perinaei arises, and passes obliquely forward to the bulb, meeting there with the one from the opposite side, and with the accelerator, in a kind of tendinous point, and covered by, as well as connected with, the anterior margin of the sphincter. It sometimes goes more directly across, but generally it lies over the strip of the accelerator, going back to the ischium, and often looks more like a superficial fasciculus of that muscle, than a distinct one. It is embedded in fat, and lies in an angular mass of fat, which leads me next to remark, that, on removing the perinaeal fascia, we find a triangular space, formed by the accelerator on the one side, and the erector and ramus on the other, whilst the base is to be placed between the tuberosity and the anus. The angle, or anterior extremity, is made larger, and more dis- tinct, by separating the accelerator from the erector. This is not diffused, but circumscribed. It is covered by the superficial fascia, and, when we remove this, and pick out all the fat and cellular substance, we come to the levator,