down on the neck, but it may also extend deeply, and then we find, that above, it might come forward on the ptery- goideus internus, reach the tonsil, and press on the pharynx. Lower, it may involve the submaxillai’y gland, or press for- ward the septum, which separates them, and go upward along the pterygoideus, to the side of the root of the tongue. But, much more fx'equently, the disease begins, not in the parotid gland, but in the conglobate gland. That one, on the face or surface of the gland often swells, and in young strumous people, it may slowly suppurate. But in adults, it is more likely to enlarge slowly, and, therefore, if it neither be diminished by treatment, nor tend to suppuration, but become firmer and rather larger, it ought to be removed, which is easily done, and, even, if the surface of the parotid gland be cut, no harm follows. If neglected, it either in- volves the gland, or that is absorbed, and its place occupied by the diseased tumour. The conglobate glands, under the lobe may swell upward, and first raise, and then involve the lobe. The different glands, there, sometimes all swell, and then the tumour is irregular and lobulated. The parotid, may next enlarge, or the gland on its face, and, too often, the chain of glands down the neck swells, so that, at last, a large tumour is formed, extending from the zygoma and cheek, down to the clavicle, andsometimes stretching across the throat to the other side, or involving the thyroid, as well as the pai-otid gland. The size of such tumoui’S is sometimes enor- mous, and their attachments intricate. They may pass up, under the zygoma, backward, so as to press together the sides of the meatus auditorius, forward, not only to the chin and on the jaw, but within it, so as to push the tongue to a side, and affect both the tonsil, velum, and pharynx, and partly curl over the teeth. With regard to an operation, whether the disease have ori- ginated in the parotid gland, or have come only to involve it, the first consideration is, whether it be practicable to remove the whole with safety. I am aware, that tumours have been successfully removed, where the attachment wasmostextensive, but the success seems to have depended, on part of the pro-