tlie surgeon, as being themselves liable to injury, but also, and more particularly, by traversing the different boundaries, and thus marking out courses, along which, important vessels and nerves pass. As the mariner by one observation can tell his place, and decide on his path, so can the anatomist by finding during an operation any one knowm point, determine all which surrounds that. He touches the process of a bone, or the margin of a muscle, and immediately knows the bearings of every spot he wishes to avoid, or the most safe and ready course in which to direct the knife in dissection. Nor is this knowledge, of less importance in deciding on the relations of a tumour, the nature of an wound, or the steps of an operation, as yet only in contemplation. There are different bony or cartilaginous points from the jaw and base of the skull, down to the chest and shoulder, which may become of much importance, and these shall be noticed as we pass along. The transverse process of the atlas, the styloid process, the angle of the jaw, the sides of the cervi- cal vertebrae, the cartilages of the larynx, the different parts of the clavicle, the curve of the first rib, are all valuable marks in sui’gery. Setting aside the muscles which connect the lai-yngeal cartilages together, or cover and form part of the gullet, those of the neck and throat, may be divided into three classes. First.) Those which are deep, and intimately connected wnth the vertebrae, and intended for the motion of the head and neck. They lie close on the spine, clinging to the bones, and forming a deep fieshy coat or covering, divisible, nevertheless, into fascicuh, more or less distinct, and through which we find nerves issuing, or alongst which they run. Second, Those which form the more superficial layer, extending from the very back of the neck, round to the mai'gins of the sterno- mastoid muscles. They extend from the head or cervical vertebrae, to the chest or shoulder, and are found in layers disposed at different angles. Third, Those which are par- ticularly connected with, or devoted to the laryngeal and pharyngeal apparatus. They are found where this apparatus is placed, namely, in the middle or anterior part of the throat