261 The Third branch, issues by the foramen ovale, which is situated in a direction, obliquely outward, from the outer plate of the pterygoid process, just behind the I’oot of the process, and in a line inward, from a point, half an inch before the condyle of the jaw. If the finger be introduced into the mouth, and carried up to the base of the skull, along the process, it will press on the foramen, through the phai’ynx. This division, differs from the others, in receiving on its under surface, at the Gasserian ganglion, a nerve, which rises rather farther forward, than the main trunk, from the tuber, and becomes combined with this division, after it issues from the foramen, but the gustatory nerve has the smallest proportion. This addition is a muscular, or motor nerve, so, that the third branch, unlike the two first, is a nerve both of motion and sensation, and in locked jaw, is a princi- pal agent, though, I have not been able to discover any mor- bid appearance in the nerve, from the tuber forward, after death. But neither do we, often, discover any disease in the motor portion of the spinal marrow, though the muscles it supplies, are dreadfully affected. The trunk, just after it issues from the foramen, divides into four primary branches. The First speedily subdivides into. First, two branches which mount in the temporal fossa, to ramify in the muscle. They are the Deep Temporal nerves, and like the arteries, are ante- rior and posterior, but the last is sometimes given off from the masseteric. Second, the Massetericus, which runs almost directly outward, crosses the upper surface of the external pterygoid, and, passing out at the sigmoid notch, behind the implantation of the temporal muscle, is distributed, minutely, on the under surface and into the substance of, the mas- seter. Third, the Buccinator, is, often, like the trunk or con- tinuation of this subdivision. It runs obliquely forward and downward, first, between the pterygoideii, and, then, be- tween the bone and internal pterygoideus, toward the front of the ramus, or coronoid process, and issues between the masseter and buccinator. The trunk comes out on the buc- cinator, from under the margin of the masseter, fully three quarters of an inch below the margin of the malar bone. It