329 artery. We also, here, go by the margin of the coraco- brachialis, instead of that of the biceps. The external cuta- neous nerve, if not already in that muscle, is at the outside of the artery. The neatness and facility of our operation, depend on laying the scalpel exactly at the edge of the biceps, and cut- tin» with its blade, directed backward, so that we are neither led under the biceps, nor directed from it. If we make an incision too far back, we miss the biceps, and the margin of the triceps brevis, about the middle of the arm, has actually been mistaken for it, and the ulnar, for the median nerve. If the brachial artery divide high, the relation of the two branches in the arm, must, with regard to one or other of them, be somewhat different from that of the brachial artery, when single. This will lead to suspicion of the case, and to farther examination, as well as to ascertaining the effect, on the aneurism, or haemorrhage, of pressure, on the exposed vessel. If the artery, be found more superficial than usual, and occupy the place of the median nerve, that is, close by the margin of the biceps, we shall probably find, by turning that nerve inward, that we expose, more deeply, a second artery, as large, or larger, which is the ulnar. Sometimes, we find, on the face of the radial artery, at the biceps, in the middle of the arm, a nerve, but it is smaller than the median ; it is the internal cutaneous, which, presently, winds inward, but, generally, it is, from first to last, to the inside of the artery, and of the median nerve. The radial artery, in such cases, is best exposed, by pressing every nerve, &c., inward; the ulnar, by keeping the median nerve, and radial artery outward, and pressing the internal cutaneous, and brachial vein inward. We do not apply the ligature to either vessel, till we ascertain, by pressing with the finger, whether it will accomplish our object. I have already men- tioned that it may be necessary to tie both. 1 he Lymphatics, are divided into the superficial and the deep. The first, accompany the superficial radial and ulnar veins, to the joint, when they ascend the inside of the aim to the axilla, where they meet with the deep absorbents.