^18 third branch of the fifth pair, passes back into tiie substance of the upper part of the gland, sends communicating branches to the portio dura, and then pierces the gland below the zygoma, to ramify on the temple. The auricular, from the second cervical nerve, runs up by the posterior margin of the gland, involved in it, and partly distributed on it. In some cases, it does not actually touch the gland, till nearly three quarters of an inch above the angle of the jaw. Next, amongst important parts, connected with the gland, are the lymphatic glands. One, lies on the surface of the gland, nearly opposite the antitragus. One or two, lie partly under the descending lobe, partly under the margin of the mastoid muscle. Sometimes, one is situated between this gland and the submaxillary, or some are, not very regu- larly, situated about, or on the margin of the lower lobe. All these are most important in disease. Lastly, before considering the practicability of extirpation, it will be well to note what parts are seen, when the gland is dissected out, in the dead subject, and we shall, by the styloid process, divide the space into two portions. First, this pi’O- cess runs obliquely down, about three-eighths of an inch within the ramus of the jaw. Above this, we find a deep space, bounded, behind, by the meatus auditorius, which has been cleaned, above, by the zygoma, before, by the condyle and cervix of the jaw, and below, by the styloid process. Between this process and the cervix, or upper part of the ramus, we have the remains of the styloid expansion, and higher, where that is deficient or cut, we see the posterior margin of the pterygoideus internus, covered by fatty cellular substance, but no vestige of gland. Deep, and behind, we may detect the cut trunk of the portio dura. The internal carotid is safe, unless the knife have unnecessarily been pushed obliquely back. At the under margin of the root of the zygoma, we see the end of the superficial temporal, or pos- terior facial, vein, and of the divided carotid, as it was issu- ing from the gland. In front, and below the condyle, we see the cut ends of the internal maxillary artery and vein, and a little higher, we see the temporal branch of the third