25G and get more blood than they wish. I believe that it is quite sufficient, to lay the lips of the small wound in contact, and apply a little firm button of cloth over it, and a broader, but thick, compress above this, and secure the whole with a roller. If this be properly applied, it obliterates the vessel at the spot; but if the roller move, and do not act, the bleeding returns, and it is in general necessary to tie the vessel. In- deed, in a restless patient, or in the country, this may be proper at first, unless the roller, which should be long, and not, at the most, above two inches broad, be well secured. The artery should never be opened near the zygoma, and still less should we open the trunk before the ear, for the parotid fascia wdiich is thick there, makes it necessary to go deeper, and the blood may more readily pass under it, so as to form, speedily, a diffused swelling, whereby, we not only do not, perhaps, at the moment, obtain so much blood as we de- sire, but are troubled, afterwards, with an aneurismal tumour, or repeated haemorrhage, whilst the distension of the fascia occasions pain and erythematic inflammation. A scalpel is sometimes used to divide the integuments over the artery, and then a lancet is employed to open it, but this is quite unnecessary. The veins of the face correspond to the arteries. The angular or facial vein receives ramuli from the forehead, and runs down by the outside of the artery. It is, at the canthus, as large as an oat straw ; it partly rests on the tendon of the orbicularis, and is neai’er the sac than the artei'y. Then, some of the fibres of the orbicularis spread over it, and it continues its course, by the outside of the artery, over the levator labii, where it covers the infra-orbitar foramen, over the levator anguli oris, zygomaticus minor, and extremity of the parotid duct, or sometimes descends just before its en- trance. It goes under the zygomaticus major, and finally passes either on, or nearly parallel to, the anterior margin of the masseter, beneath the platysmal fascia. Below the jaw, it either forms a common trunk with the lingual, and enters the temporal or the internal jugular, or, it continues down the neck, as the anterior jugular.