428 cannot too soon open this abscess ; and then we have to treat the case as a perinaeal fistula. This must not be confounded with abscess of Cooper’s gland, or abscess succeeding a com- mon inflammation, or scrophulous inflammation in the peri- naeum. The history of the case, and the difficulty of making water, if such exist, following, not pi'eceding, the abscess, will point out its nature. But still we are to open early. The prostate gland may enlarge either upward or down- ward. It is not usual for it to enlarge exclusively, or even chiefly, in a direction away from the bladder; but it some- times does so, and also expands laterally. It must come nearer the perinaeum; and the prostatic portion of the urethra is lengthened. Generally, it enlarges upward on the bladder, and inward, carrying the coats of the bladder before it. On opening the bladder, we see the lateral lobes pro- jecting upward, often to a great degree, into the cavity, whilst, very often, there is also a middle projection, that may also go upward, but more frequently, it bends forward, over the orifice of the bladder, so as to overhang it like a valve. If we slit up the gland, we find the prostatic portion of the urethra to be altered in its course. It is often curved very much to one side, and sometimes it is bent forward. From this, we see that there may be great difficulty in passing a catheter. If force be employed, a false passage is made. If the canal be tolerably straight, and the middle lobe not much projected forwai’d, a full-sized silver catheter can be intro- duced pretty easily. But, in contrary circumstances, we must use a flexible catheter, and allow it to remain for some time at the obstruction, pressing only most gently till it bend a little, and take the proper direction. In this view, we would prefer a catheter which was as flexible as was consistent with sufficient firmness to enable us to carry it on. If a wire be used, it should, when we reach the gland, be withdrawn for two inches. It is scarcely safe to give the catheter a curve at the end by the wire. The bladder may be much dis- tended, although the urine dribble constantly away. If the catheter can be readily introduced, the patient derives not only great relief from its use, but the progress of the disease is