214 trizes, not being of a malignant nature. It may, however, require to be cut again. On looking into the mouth, we see on the back of the pharynx, a thin packet of follicles, called by Dr. Hunter, a third tonsil. When these are swelled, and covered with mucus, they are apt to be mistaken for ulceration of the part; a state, which may be produced both by struma and syphilis. The Parotid Gland may be considered, here, with more propriety, than afterwards. It divides itself into two portions, that which appears on removing the skin and fascia, and that which sinks deep. The superficial part, extends from the zygoma, for it does not pass above it, not only to the angle of the jaw, but sometimes even to three quarters of an inch below it. At the top, it is somewhat rounded, but from that to the angle of the jaw, it sometimes continues nearly of the same breadth, namely, an inch, though the part opposite the lobe of the ear, is often fully half an inch broader. When it extends beyond the jaw, it ends in a peak not above half an inch broad. This is called the descending lobe of the gland. It seldom covers a great part of the breadth of the masseter muscle, rarely above a third of it, for a considera- ble portion occupies the space between the ear and the ramus of the jaw. Its direction is downward and obliquely back- ward, so that it does not, in the least, encroach on the angle of the jaw, but passes backward, so as generally to rest on the front of the upper part of the mastoid muscle, whilst a part shoots in, below that muscle, between it and the belly of the digastric. In a few cases, the gland does little more than skirt the margin of the muscle. From the anterior margin of the gland, the duct proceeds, either accompanied, for more than half an inch, by a prolong- ation of the gland on it, or along the upper margin, or, a more insulated portion of gland, called socia parotidis lies on it. The duct, like the gland, is covered by fascia, and so imbedded in fat, as to be indistinct, till cleared. Its coats are pretty thick, and lined with mucous membrane. It glides down, over the masseter, on the buccinator, on which it runs