143 according as the one or other shall be most comfortable, may be advised. In those cases, where glands are affected, more may be done than when the cause is obscure. Iodine in them may be given, and the part be rubbed with camphorated ointment, containing a little mercury. If the attack be acute and rapid, the detraction of blood from the arm, but particu- larly from the nape of the neck, is useful, and blisters should afterwards be applied. But in more insidious and chronic cases I have seldom seen these means do good, but have found advantage from bringing and keeping out a crop of pustules on the back part of the head and neck, by means of tartar emetic ointment; a caustic issue has also done good. Temporary relief has been obtained by applying an infusion of tobacco, or smoking tobacco, so as to produce sickness. In some cases, both diflhised pain and constitutional disorder may be produced by a very circumscribed affection of the extremities of the nerve; and in this case one spot on the scalp is found to be tender to the touch, and there may or may not be slow inflammation of the cellular substance and periosteum. This is sometimes the effect of a blow. It is remarkable how speedy the relief often is, that is procured by dividing the parts freely down to the bone; the patient sleep- ing well the first night, and soon becoming free from fever. The introduction of a seton is sorfietimes followed by so much uneasiness in the course of the nerve, or spasm of the muscles, approaching to tetanus, that it is necessary to with- draw it. The second cervical nerve also gives oflF a branch, which receives additions from the third, and becomes connected with a large branch arising from the third. These two constituting the acromial andsupra-clavicular nerves, sometimes unite early, so as to form a common trunk before becoming subcutaneous, but often they only are connected by interlacements, and the former can generally be distinctly traced chiefly to the second, and the latter to the third, cervical nerve; but the proportion furnished by these two nerves is not always the same, and, in some cases, the third gives the largest one to the acromial nerve. By raising the mastoid, and removing