238 A few fibres wind, sometimes, along the division in the un- der lip, from the buccinator, as far as the canine tooth. The various muscles, inserted into the mouth, expand on the or- bicularis, or intermix with its substance, so that, by some, they have been described as forming an outer layer of this muscle. On the upper part of the face, we have, besides those already noticed, the Temporal, very much covered by the oc- cipito-frontalis, to which, therefore, I revert. The anterior fleshy belly, is thin, and goes back, to about an inch and a half from the superciliary ridge, where it is lost in the sheet of tendon or aponeurosis. The posterior comes so far up, as to be fully on a line with the top of the ear. From this, a firm expansion, partly tendinous, partly dense cellular sub- stance, extends backward to the top of the neck. The mid- dle aponeurosis, as it is called, goes to the top of the mastoid muscle and ear, behind, whilst, in front, it covers the tem- poral muscle, and can often be traced under the orbicularis, to the outer margin of the orbit, and zygoma, and down, over that, to be lost in the parotid fascia, and that of the face. This extent is not always so distinct, and, correctly speaking, the occipito-frontalis-aponeurosis, cannot be said to go so far, but, in strongly marked subjects, it is really impossible to say, where that ends, and the mere fascia begins. This is a point of considerable importance, in the propagation of disease, the confinement and extension of pus, &c. Removing this, by whatever name it is called, we find another layer of fascia, arising from the margin of the oi’bit and zygoma, with dense fatty substance, lying between it and the muscle, near the temple, and which, when absorbed, makes the temple fall in. It passes up over the muscle, under the occipito-fron- talis, but gradually becomes almost cellular. Lastly, beneath this, there is the proper aponeui'osis of the temporal muscle, thin, but strong, and glistening. It, at the circumference of the muscle, is identified with the pericranium, and below, is united to the upper margin of the whole of the zygomatic arch. On sawing off this arch, and turning down the masse- ter, we can better see the muscle, and find that it arises be-