89 hereafter of them. I only remark, that veins always accom- pany the artery, and also cross it, sometimes at the bifurca- tion of the common carotid, sometimes more than half an inch higher, and occasionally a large branch crosses on the inside of the artery. The tract of the external carotid, is marked by a line drawn from behind the superior horn of the thyroid cartilage, to the back of the angle of the jaw, and this corresponds nearly to the anterior margin of the mastoid muscle. In some instances, the external carotid runs a little more forward, its line being directed to the angle, if not a little before it, but, reaching the angle, it winds backward. The artery goes somewhat obliquely upward and backward from the angle, so that it is longer covered by the digastric and stylo-hyoideus. Five- eighths of an inch of the artery are thus covered by them, for it passes up on their inside, but on the outside of the styloid process, sometimes crossing it at its point, sometimes half an inch back from it, according to the length of the pro- cess. In its tract up, from the bifurcation, to where it meets the digastric, which is usually at the angle of the jaw, though sometimes nearly a quarter of an inch either above or below it, the artery is about the tenth of an inch deep from the margin of the mastoid muscle, and generally the length of this part of the artery, when the head is level, is about five- eighths of an inch; but by bending the head back, it is increased to three quarters. The outer face of the digastric is about four-tenths inward from the exact margin of the angle of the jaw, and the artery, when it is passing within the under margin of the muscle, may be about seven-tenths inward from the margin. It becomes more superficial as it ascends, for when it emerges above the stylo-hyoideus, it is, from barely a quarter, to half an inch deep, from the margin of the ramus, and more than an inch from the skin covering the mastoid process. It emerges from the stylo-hyoideus about five-eighths of an inch above the angle, but sometimes lower, sometimes three quarters above the angle, according to the size and obliquity of the muscle. The external carotid artery, passing on the outside of the