438 into the tubercle, it does not stop there, but curves, or extends outward, attached to the upper surface of the bone, or the fibrous edge of that part of the lineo ilio-pectinea, called the ligament of the pubis, and to the’pectineus. This is variable in its strength and extent, being sometimes very indistinct, or extremely short; at others, strong and fibrous, and perhaps an inch long, binding the ligament, to that extent to the bone and the pectineus; or, we may say, that the ligament begins to be implanted there, by a lunated margin, and then is continued on to the tubercle. It has been called Gimbernat’s ligament. To prevent confusion, it may be called the Crescentic implantation. The length of Poupart’s ligament varies in different adults, and in the two sexes. In the male, it is from four inches and three-quarters, to five inches and a half; but the greater number somewhat more than five. In the female, it is from four inches and a quarter, to five inches and three-quarters ; the greater number under five and a quarter. Viewed from within, this ligament has a slightly arched appearance, on the vessels and crural ring, on which account, some call it the crural arch. The broad tendon of the external oblique, near the tubercle of the pubis, splits, so as to leave an aperture for the issuing of the cord, or round ligament. This separation has, of course, two margins, or sides, called its pillars, and these are, at the commencement of the separation, interwoven by cross fibres, called intercolumnar, which bind the two together more firmly there, and also give that end of the aperture a semilunar shape; and the pillars near the tubercle ap- pi’oaching towai’d each other, the opening is nearly oval. Even farther out, cross fibres are observable. The inferior band, or pillar, has been confounded with Poupart’s liga- ment, but is separable from it, and is implanted into the front of the root of the tubercle, and goes a very little more in- ward than the ligament, which is inserted into the tubercle itself. The superior band, goes over the fiice of the pubis, attached to it, decussating that of the opposite side, without being united to it. Sometimes it is divided into two bands, and, generally, a strip can be traced by the inside of the