300 cervical ganglion, to the axillary nerves, ami from the thoracic ganglion, to the intercostal nerves. From this account of the breast, we can readily see, that there are two ways, in which disease maybe propagated, inde- pendently of nervous influence, which is not to be disregard- ed. For, although a diseased texture be wholly removed, yet, the nerves going to it may be so affected, that their cut ex- tremities, shall resume, or rather carry on, the morbid action, and thus cause what is called a relapse; against this risk, I fear there is no security. But disease may also be propagated, by the absorption of matter, acting on the glands, which, if not removed, are sure to run the course the original tumour should have done. The state of the fascia, is another cause of relapse. The layer, on the outer surface, after a time, be- comes diseased, and, next, the skin over it, which, as is well known, may either at last be destroyed, and form an open sore, or, it may become studded over with cancerous tuber- cles. We ought, therefore, in extirpating the breast, to be careful to leave no part of this fascia, connected to the integu- ments, and must remember, that as it can be traced far be- yond the boundaries of the gland, we must go, in our dissec- tion, to a little distance from its margin, and also must leave no part adhering to the skin. Toward the axilla, more espe- cially if we have to remove glands, we should not be sparing of the fascia, but clean it from the sen'atus, and inner margin of the pectoralis. We cannot follow it far up, however. It is not unusual for the fascia, at the upper part of the arm, and on the face of the axilla, to inflame in relapses, and this is occasionally productive of erysipelas. The under layer is also liable to participate, and this is still moi’e con- nected with the deep axillary fascia. As it adheres firmly to the mammary gland, it is necessary to remove it entirely, so as to leave the pectoral muscle bare, and this is to be done without cutting the fibres, which always produces a trouble- some oozing of blood from the muscle. If this be attended to, we have seldom above one or two vessels to secure, on the face of the muscle, coming out through its substance. The most numerous, are in the cellular substance of the flajis, and