5^1 at the other margin, we feel for a little sulcus between the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and the internal cuneiforme. This is just above, or tibial, of the implantation of the tibialis anticus into the metatarsal bone, and just beyond the con- nexion of the posticus with that bone. We may either make a flap below, or, it answers very well to make a simple inci- sion round the foot, so as to cover the ends of the bones, equally, from above and below. For removing the great toe alone, with its metatarsal bone, feel for the slight depression between it and the cuneiforme. Make then, just before this, on the median line of the inner margin of the foot, an incision forward for half an inch. The extremity of this is to sweej) off, on the upper and under surface, toward the junction of the great toe with the adjoin- ing one, forming thus an upper and under flap, when the skin is dissected outward. The extensor tendons are next to be divided, and the knife sunk between the'surface of the bones, and then the toe with its metatarsal bone and muscles attached to it, are to be cautiously detached. No force is to be used in separating, and more especially if the tendon of the flexor longus be not yet divided. The advantage of the first straight incision is, that we thus better cover the flat surface of the cuneiform bone. The Popliteal artery, (page 492,) flanked on the outside by the plantaris, descends on the popliteus, and at the lower margin of that muscle, two inches below tbe articular surface of the tibia, divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arte- ries. Previously, it gives oflF a branch, which runs down on the cellular line, uniting the heads of the gastrocnemius, and two others, one descending on each belly of the muscle. The Posterior Tibial artery is the continuation of its trunk. Covered by the soleus, it proceeds down on that very small portion of the tibialis posticus, which is visible between the popliteus and flexor digitorum. Then, it rests on the latter till near the ankle, when the muscle becoming narrower and tendinous, it leaves the artery, which is then separated from the bone itself, only by a padding of fat and cellular sub-