18 an inch and a half, and the distance, externally, between the opposite sides behind, varies from an inch and a half, to an inch and three quarters. The margin is prolonged upward, so as to form a slightly curved stalk or horn, about half an inch long, which is tied to the end of the horn of the os hyoides by the ligamentous border of the hyo-thyroid membrane, which is so round as to be called the hyo-thyroid ligament. The poste- rior margin of the cartilage is nearly on a line with the ante- rior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, but rather a little deeper. The cricoid cartilage is much shallower before than behind; and, therefore, it mounts up within the sides of the thyroid cartilage which defends the glottis, which is supported by the cricoid cartilage. It is from five-eighths, to three quar- ters, of an inch high behind, but only about a quarter, or at most three-eighths, in front. The antero-posterior diameter is an inch, and its lateral extent is fully that. In males, the internal diameter is about five-eighths of an inch, and it is nearly circular. In females, the diameter is less; and in them the antero-posterior diameter, internally, just below the rima, may be only nine-sixteenths of an inch, and the lateral only half an inch. The under margin of the cricoid is nearly on a line with the extremity of the under horn of the thyroid carti- lage. The upper margin, behind, is on a line nearly midway between the extremity of the upper and under horns, which will, at the front, correspond to a point about a quarter of an inch above the upper margin of the crico-thyroid space. The crico-thyroid space is filled up by a strong membrane, but is not, from the shape of the cartilages, regular. It is tolerably straight above, but below it is more convex. It is in length, from side to side, from three quarters of an inch to an inch. Its height in front, when stretched, is about three-eighths of an inch, but it graduiiUy diminishes toward the sides. When relaxed, it is only a quarter of an inch.. An opening made here enters the larynx at its termination, and before the com- mencement of the trachea. It is quite below the glottis and its dependancies. Hence it affords a free transmission of air in those cases where the vocal apparatus is diseased or thick- ened, or in all cases where the impediment to respiration is