123 I \ and the superior may arise from the subclavian directly, or Irom tlie posterior scapular. The Veins of the neck may either be traced from the heart, or toward it, in the direction of the current of blood. There are different orders of veins, arranged according to their situa- tion, but they are not so regular as the arteries, and the exter- nal veins are inconstant both in their number and course. The^rs^ to be noticed, are the external jugular veins, which lie under, and adherent to, the platysma. Tlie posterior runs down the neck, under the platysmal fascia, in a perpendicular direction, from behind the angle of the jaw to the clavicle. It at first goes a little way along the margin of the sterno-mas- toid muscle; then, continuing its descent, it goes obliquely with regard to its fibres, and, having reached the posterior margin of the muscle, sinks between it and the trapezius, sometimes near the clavicle, sometimes even two inches above it. It gets under, or behind the omo-hyoideus, and enters the subclavian vein. It is formed by the vein whieh accompanies the external carotid artery, in its course up through the parotid gland. It therefore is a continuation of what has been called the posterior facial vein, receiving the super- ficial, middle, and deep temporal veins, and the ramifications of the internal maxillary, with the posterior auricular vein from behind. As the carotid artery gets first under, and then into the parotid gland, so does the vein, if traced upward. Some- times this posterior jugular vein is formed entirely from the posterior auricular, with a few subcutaneous additions; and the other tributary veins enter the internal jugular. Or the occipital vein, instead of accompanying its artery, forms this vein, or the superficial temporal, comes down on the sur- face, of the parotid gland, all along. I do not mean, at pre- sent, to notice its varieties in formation, but merely that a large external jugular vein usually, in whatever way it be formed, passes down from the angle of the jaw. Second, The anterior jugular vein descends from before the angle of the jaw, in the direction of a line drawn from the anterior margin of the masseter muscle, to the clavicle, at the