63 at the jugular vein, and is reflected outward again, over the deep muscles of the vertebrae, so that no blunt instrument can be passed on toward the trachea, till this be ruptured. The carotid has a proper sheath distinct from this fascial covering. The platysmal fascia not only covers the neck, but it also dips down between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, communi- cating with that of the deeper muscles, particularly with the covering of the levator scapulae, and identifying itself with the deep cervical fascia. It passes deeply backward, over the cervical plexus, which it often obscures, and forward over the vessels. Therefore, although we make the distinction of superficial and deep fascia of the neck, yet, in one view, these, with all their prolongations, are continuations, the one of, and from, the other. It still remains to describe the state of the deep fascia at the under part of the neck. When the skin and platysma are removed, the myloid fascia, or intimate covering of the muscles on the laryngeal cylinder, is readily traced down to the sternum. On a level with the clavicle, or rather more than half an inch above the centre of the top of the sternum, it divides into two layers; one extends between the tendons of the two mastoid muscles, and connects them together, and passes over the face or outside of the sternum. The other goes within the top of the sternum, and end of the clavicle. It is inserted into the back of the top of the sternum and extre- mity of the first rib, and into the inner surface of the clavicle, as low down as the level of the sternum, that is fully half an inch, and is identified with the termination of the muscles in the bones of the thorax. It passes outward as far as the exter- nal margin of the sterno-thyroideus, and sends a layer both over and under the omo-hyoideus, binding it to the clavicle. On tracing this deep fascia from the thorax upward, we find it passing off from the border of the sterno-thyroid, and higher from the omo-hyoid, and going outward toward the trans- verse processes of the vertebrm. It covers the carotid and jugular, where these emerge from the border of the sterno-thy- louleus, and goes outward over the aponeurosis of the scalenus muscles. It thus covers not only the muscles on the trachea