211 jugular vein. The removal is easily effected, provided an inci- sion be made freely through the fascia. This enables us to turn out the gland with little or no dissection, or at most, cut- ting any slight attachment it may have formed to the sub- maxillary. As the tumour often is exterior to the vein, even this vessel is seldom divided. The artery is safe, and only nutrient vessels are cut, though, sometimes, from the exten- sion of the parts, the facial artery is seen bare, and writhing between the horn of the os hyoides, and the submaxillary, or angle of the jaw. If any vessel bleed, it is to be carefully looked for, and tied, for, by neglecting this, the wound becomes filled with blood, which presses on the glottis and pharynx, producing a sense of suffocation, and difficulty of swallowing. When the Sublingual Gland suppurates, the abscess breaks within the mouth, under the tongue, but if it press on the glottis, we must open it with a lancet. Chronic tumours, generally, are so far cystic, that although there be considera- ble induration, yet, the greatest part is formed by thick fluid, which has, without proof, been supposed to consist of inspissated saliva. That the ducts of this gland, and of the submaxillary, maybe obstructed, and become distended, form- ing what is called ranula, I doubt not; but surgeons have gone too far, when they considered this, always, to consist in a mere distension of the duct. It is often a cyst connected with the sublingual gland, and the contents are totally differ- ent from the saliva. A mere obstruction of the duct, should oftener cause swelling and inflammation of the gland, and if the distended duct were once laid open, it should always remain fistulous, so as to prevent reaccumulation. But the cure consists in obliterating the cyst, one way or other. Concretions may form in the ducts, and require to be cut out. The sublingual gland sometimes becomes indurated and ulcerated, with retorted edges, like cancer, or fungi sprout from it, under the tongue. It should be fixed with a hook or ligature, and dissected out, but it is impossible to remove it fully, without encroaching on the tongue, so as, in all proba- bility, to open one or both ranine arteries, and cut off part of the submaxillary duct, and fifth pair of nerves. We must