QS5 there is on the outer margin, and outside of the face, of the artery, the anterior, or outer, head of the median, connected, at its outer margin, with the external cutaneous. These, and perhaps a little of the outer margin of the artery, cover the spiral nerve, which, with those before it, hide or have behind them, the circumflex, and often the infra-scapulary nerve, or the circumflex runs along its outside. Then, the back part of the artery, rests more directly on the ulnar, in- ternal cutaneous, and inner head of the median, which comes out a little lower, between the artery and vein. We have, also coming out, generally from behind the artery, between it and the vein, in the space above the pectoralis minor, along with thearteria thoracica superior, a branch, or two branches, from the median nerve, which immediately split and ramify on the pectoralis minor, and into the major, and also outward on the subclavius. Twigs also go, within the axillary fascia, to the armpit, and with the mammaria externa. This is the thoracicus anterior, so named, to distinguish it from a larger nerve, that comes out in the neck, between the scalenus me- dius, and posticus, and descends on the outer margin of the former, over the transversalis colli artery, then behind the supra-scapulary nerve and axillary plexus, as far out as to- ward the acromion. It descends behind the great vessels, to the serratus anticus, &c., and is named the posterior or great thoracic nerve. The artery is thus almost enclosed, or cov- ered in, by the vein and nerves, and can only be fully seen by drawing these, particularly the vein, aside. The artery is sooner or later below the clavicle, according to the directness of its descent, and the size of the adult subject. Its inner margin appears at the subclavius muscle, if that be not very broad, from an inch and three quarters, to two inches, fully, from the sternal end of the bone. Its outer is two, or two and an eighth. The vein appears, with its inner mai’gin, fully an inch and a half from the articulation, and being very ob- lique, its outer, above two inches, sometimes three-eighths more, and from running more outward than the artery, it, at, and from, the margin of the subclavius, gets soon considerably on its face.