IIG head or spine had been particularly injured, but Ironi fever, stupor, and aberration existing for two months, there can be no doubt, that one or both had suffered. At tlie end of this time, the young lady was seized with catalepsy, the attacks of which sometimes lasted for many hours, and even for a day or two. They, however, gradually became shorter, and when I saw her, some months afterwards, she was nearly free from them, unless when she saw any one ekcept the two persons who were in the habit of being with her. If any one else appeared, she became fixed instantly in the position she Avas in, like a living statue, or if playing, she continued her music without intermission, till the paroxysm went off, which was generally in five minutes. She has been known to have above three hundred in a day. But the circumstance I wish here to notice is, that there was great tenderness or rather acute pain, if the finger were pressed, either just between the atlas and head, or on the protuberance of the occiput, in the course of the occipital nerves. Pressure there, instantly pi'oduced a parox- ysm, preceded by a scream, or, if already in a state of uncon- sciousness, and fixture, pressure then alone produced sensation, for she instantly screamed as if in pain; but on a repetition, became quite insensible to any further pain. During the ordinary paroxysm of catalepsy, the pulse was not affected; but during the greater degree of insensibility produced by pres- sure, the pulse became very rapid. The vertebral artery enters, I have said, sometimes so high as the third vertebra. When this is the case, it runs up parallel to the carotid, by the outer edge of the longus colli, and the inner margin of the jugular vein, or in a line nearly with the eighth nerve. On the left side, the artery varies little in its relation to the other vessels, but is sometimes rather more behind the carotid. It runs deep, as in the other side, and becomes covered with branches of the sympathetic in front, and the thoracic duct arches before it. There is, therefore, an additional risk in exposing or injuring the left artery. On this side, the vertebral sometimes rises dix*ectly from the aorta. It comes off immediately after the cai’Otid, between