165 of all, for exposing the thyroid arteries, which, in general, should be tied before we proceed to the dissection. The superior artery is to be exposed, as directed at page 99. It goes down just behind the horn of the thyroid cartilage. It runs obliquely downward and forward, and the vein being lower, in general, is either a little more backward or lower according to the spot; but where the artery would be exposed, it is rather behind, but partly covering it. In some cases, there are two venae comites, one above, the other below, the artery, which is almost hid by them. The artery then goes on under both the sterno-hyoideus and thyroideus, and its main trunk skirts the upper margin of the gland on the crico- thyroideus, whilst another division, often large, runs down by the side of the gland, and sometimes a large branch lies behind the margin. I have also seen a very considerable branch run down in front of the carotid artery, which would have required attention in exposing and tying that vessel. It cannot, in the region of the gland, be exposed, without cut- ting the two former muscles. The thyroid artery is usually large; but in diseased gland it is often greatly increased in size, and if only a single ligature be applied, the artery should not be divided till it come to be cut in removing the gland. The vein also is enlarged, and the valve, where it enters the jugular, or joins the facial, is not even in the natural state very distinct or apparent, and it is still less so in this case. It will, therefore, be prudent to tie the vein also. The ramus thyroideus of the inferior thyroid artery arches from behind the carotid to the side of the gland, a little below the cricoid cartilage, the distance depending somewhat on the length of the neck. It is found generally between a quarter and half an inch below the cartilage, or about an inch and a half above the clavicle, a little more or less according to the length of the neck, and very often it is obliquely crossed by the omo- hyoideus. By pressing the carotid gently outward, and the margin of the gland toward the other side, the artery is seen very deep, covered by the aponeurosis of the cervical muscles. At this point the artery crosses over the recurrent nerve; but if it subdivide soon, it is usual to find one of the divisions