1 30^2 during suppuration, a part of the gland may die, and be thrown out as a slough. More rarely, abscess forms under the gland, between it and the pectoral muscle. It is not un- usual, for two or more lobes to suppurate, in succession, and sometimes, particularly in strumous habits, sinuses run in more directions than one, to a little abscess found in an indu- rated portion of gland. We try, first, the effect of enlarging the most dependent aperture, if the disease be tedious. It is rarely necessary to make extensive incisions, far less to fol- low all the sinuses, and cut up the breast in different direc- tions. The glenoid cavity, is an oval, an inch and three-eighths, by one inch. It is narrowest near the origin of the biceps ten- don, and the cartilaginous rim is thickest at the inner or lower part. The head of the bone, is also somewhat oval, an inch ^ and seven-eighths, by fully one and five-eighths, but a thread I traversing the whole convexity of the diameter, will measure i fully three inches. When the arm is close by the side, there j is a distance, of nearly an inch, between the margin of the acromion, and that of the tubercle. When it is elevated, the tubercles, particularly the great one, are brought up under the acromion, close to the glenoid margin, and more than an inch, of the articulating surface, projects beyond the glenoid cavity, on the capsule, between the teres minor and subscap- ularis. The capsule is very thin there. It is also thin be- tween the supra-spinatus and subscapularis, where it is ti'a- versed by the coraco-brachialis. At the tubercles, the capsule | does not go lower than their upper margin, but at the inner part it goes, or can be pressed down for more than a quarter of an inch below the line of the neck. The capsule not only is attached to the margin of the glenoid cartilage, but also by pretty firm fibres to the outer side of the coracoid process. If we roll the arm outward, we put these on the | stretch, and give them the appearance of a band going to both tuberosities, but especially the outer. It has been call- ed the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament. This renders the coracoid process, really a part of the articulation. The strength of the capsule is increased, in many directions, by I