.332 But if the puncture have been more to the back of tlie artery, it may be thrown a little forward, and even turned a little outward, so, as at the margin of the biceps, to be more super- ficial. It is prevented from going inward, by the muscular branches given off outward. The profunda?, also, though to a less degree, limit the displacement of the artery. A punc- ture of either of the profundae, if these be large, will produce an aneurismal tumour, which may, with difficulty, be dis- tinguished from that following an wound of the main artery. The strength of the pulsation at the elbow, or wrist, will assist the diagnosis, and the situation of the tumour itself, may be more inward and backward. When the humerus is Fractured, just below the fold of the axilla, the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis, will draw the upper part a little inwarch unless the tendon of the latter be, as often happens, prolonged downward, and remain entire. The other muscles, draw the shaft up, with little obliquity, perhaps a little outward. The second head of the triceps, helps to brace the fractured end of the bone. Sometimes, the superior portion of the deltoid, especially if it be lacerated near its insertion, may make the upper part project forwai’d, but this is less likely, than when the bone is broken near its middle, just at the end of the insertion of the deltoid. In this case, especially if the origin of the brachieus be torn, the upper part is elevated forward, and also drawn a little out- ward, whilst the under part, is drawn a little inward, by the coraco-brachieus, and upward, by it and the other muscles, such as the biceps and triceps. There are instances, where we cannot bring, or keep, the ends in contact, and the shaft straight, otherwise, than by bringing forward and outward the elbow. Fracture considerably lower than the insertion of the deltoid, is seldom attended with shortening of the bone, for the triceps and brachieus adhere to it, so that it is more liable to bend by position, than to have the lower end drawn up by the muscles. The tendinous insertion of the del- toid, is extensive, perhaps an inch and a half long, and the bone is rarely broken in the tract of that. If it were, though it might bend, yet, the ends should otherwise be little dis-