140 levator. It is, in some instances, not much farther out than the phrenic; but, being smaller, cannot even then be mistaken for it. It also very soon winds more outward. These deep muscular nerves are sometimes connected with the phrenic; and, from their distribution, we may expect, when they are affected by glandular tumours, &c. to have the deep cervical muscles stiff, and the shoulder itself may suffer. I have referred the origin of the branches I have described to particular cervical nerves, but these so interlace, that they form a plexus, from which they may also be described as arising. The cervical nerves come sloping out of the gutter in the transverse processes of the vertebrae, passing between the two points of the process, and winding a little downward and backward. The three first pass out between the scalenus medius and rectus major; but the anterior branch of the first is very small. The plexus, formed by the second and third, is covered by the mastoid muscle. If a line be drawn back- ward, level with the jaw-blade, it will correspond to the top of the plexus, and it extends downward for nearly an inch and a quarter. The jugular vein almost covers it, for it is only the nerves coming off from it that are seen at its outer margin. By raising the mastoid muscle, we see the deep muscles covered by a fascia and cellular substance, through which the nerves are discovered; they are easily displayed, and the branches run outward and downward towards the shoulder. In the horse we have no cervical plexus, but the branches come more dis- tinctly off from the individual nerves. If we attend to the effect of dislocation, we shall find that if we luxate the fourth vertebra, for example, by twisting it forward on the left side on the fifth, the spinal cord will be somewhat compressed, by the back part of the former coming forward, and the fore part of the latter going a little backwai'd. It is also twisted round a little. The nerve on that side, in the act of dislocation, is stretched, but afterwards is little, if at all, extended; but it is pressed on, and that in proportion as the oblique process of the fourth sinks down in front of that of the fifth. On the other side, the connexion of the processes is stretched, or they may be somewhat separated from each other.