495 tation is prevented by the capsular, lateral, and posterior ligaments, and so is flexion backward. Two Semilunar interarticular cartilages are connected to the surface of the tibia. The external is most curved, being almost circular. The horns are directed to the spine, or median elevation of the tibia, and are also connected with the crucial ligaments. The inner is more crescentic, and its posterior horn meets the crucial ligament. The internal is narrow before, but five- eighths broad behind. The external, at its broadest part, is only three-eighths. Between the two anterior horns, extends a small band, called the transverse ligament. These cartilages are very thin at their lunated edges, but grow thicker as they approach the outer margin. That is attached to the fibrous investment of the joint, and, at one part, to the popliteus muscle, at another, to the external lateral ligament. That margin is nearly a quarter of an inch thick, so that the ai'ticulation for the condyles is deepened. Both surfaces are covered by a reflection of the synovial membrane, and, consequently, have no adhesion to the bones. If, therefore, the exterior attachment be relaxed, they can shuffle more out or in. If one go inward, the thick margin is caught, or pinched, between the bones, and pain or lameness, for the time, pro- duced. This is relieved by bending the leg greatly, either outward or inward, according to the cartilage which is dis- placed. This stretches the capsule, and pulls the cartilage into its place. The margin of the cartilaginous surface of the femur is marked by a projecting ridge, between the face and sides of the condyles, most prominent on the inner condyle. In front, where they stand off from the shaft, it sweeps up, crossing from the one to the other, in a crescentic line across the shaft. Behind, it follows the outline of the projection of the condyles, and crosses the shaft between these. All along this line, the synovial membrane is attached. It is, also, attached to the margin of the patella, and lines that bone, as well as the capsule, and ligaments at the side and back. It lines the patellar ligament, with the interposition of a bursa and fatty substance. Finally, it is implanted inta