1S9 favourable, the most of the saliva finds its way down to the oesophagus. But, if the division be extensive, the pharynx is more injured, and every such contraction, as it still can make, will force the fluid rather through the wound than into the gullet. The patient, therefore, not only suffers from want of nourishment, but is dreadfully tormented by thirst, as well as by cough. The appearance of a person, when the head is turned back, and the wound extensive, is quite appalling, for the head, at first, seems almost distinct from the body, the face is pale, as in death, but the eye retains expression. The first thing to be done is to stop the bleeding, which is done by pressing with the finger backward in the situation of the lingual and thyroid arteries, which are the vessels most frequently opened, for few cases become the object of treat- ment where the external carotid is divided. The vessels are then to be tied. Every branch which bleeds being secured, and the wound cleaned to make sure of this, and being satisfied that even the veinous branches are not to bleed, we bring the surfaces in contact by bending the head a little forward. The lips may then be retained by strips of plaster, but in no case are stitches to be employed. A compress is next to be applied, and over all a light roller or kerchief, and the patient is to be placed, and preserved, in such a position, by pillows, as shall keep the parts together. He must be constantly attended, particularly if determined against recovery, and a bandage has been contrived, to retain the head, forcibly, in its position, but moral command is much better. We must be sure that every vessel is tied before closing the external wound, for, if not, and the membrane be still entire, it is pushed in, by the blood, on the glottis, or, if it be divided, blood runs into the pharynx or larynx. The next point relates to the nourishment of the patient. Deglu- tition is a complex process. The upper part of the pharynx being widened by the action of the stylo-pharyngei muscles, receives the morsel, or liquid, thrown back by the tongue, and the contraction, in succession, of the different portions of the constrictor, from above downward, carries the food down