44 muscles, by an expansion of fascia, we may, if we cut at the very side, and tlien go obliquely backward, dissect unnecessarily behind the pharynx, and, in place of opening it, only detach it. T.he opening being made, the foreign substance is then to be extracted by a pair of forceps. Sometimes a lateral thyroid vein comes in the way, and can hardly fail to be divided; but it is not likely to bleed much if the finger be instantly placed on it. No arterial branch of any import- ance is in the way, and any muscular rami which bleed can be tied. Twigs of the recurrent neiwe on the pharynx or oesophagus must be cut by spreading over part of the sur- face to be divided, but these are of no vital importance, and we may, I think, avoid the laryngeal, or most essential, part of the nerve as readily as we may the cai’otid artery. The wound is to be accurately closed, and 4he patient nour- ished by liquids injected by a tube, either introduced pro re nata, or retained in the passage. He may, perhaps for a short time, dispense with this by having clysters of milk or soup. The danger of pharyngotomy is not from the hazard of injuring vital parts, but from the inflammation which may be produced in an important part already disordered, if not inflamed, by the cause requiring the operation. Polypous tumours obstructing deglutition are to be removed more solito. But there are soft vegetations, springing from an extensive sur- face, which cannot have a ligature applied to them. These often elongate so as to hang down into the oesophagus, and obstruct both deglutition and respiration. In the act of vomit- ing, such tumours may be forced into the mouth, and if not speedily swallowed, or pulled off, they may cause suffocation. They are generally of a strumous nature, but invaluably produce death, partly by inducing constitutional disease or hectic, and partly by intei'fering with nourishment and respira- tion. The base being broad, and the situation often low, the ligature cannot be applied, but I have known temporary relief obtained by producing vomiting, and pulling a portion off when it was forced into the mouth, or by pushing, occa- sionally, a probang down the oesophagus so as to brush off a part and make a passage.