466 margin of the acetabulum, abduct the knee. If we do so too soon, the head of the bone is thrown into the foramen thyroideum. I only know this dislocation from studies on the dead subject, and from a preparation I saw in St. Bar- tholomew’s, In dislocation into the foramen thyroideum, the limb is about two inches longer, and advanced before the other; it is also abducted, and the toes turned outward. The tro- chanter is farther from the spine of the ilium, and more inward than natural. The head rests chiefly on the obtura- tor externus, the adductor brevis being pushed downward and inward, if not torn. It is covered by the pectinaeus, which is, also, often lacerated. The posterior small muscles —namely, pyriformis, &c., are torn, or greatly stretched. All the glutei are stretched, the minimus especially, at its lower margin. The adductors are lengthened. The psoas and iliaeus are not much affected, but rather tightened. They cross the neck. The capsule is very tense when it is not torn. If not reduced, the obturator externus is absorbed, and the foramen converted, by bony deposit, into a new acetabulum. This, and other changes, in the old acetabulum, are illustrated by a preparation of Sir Astley Cooper’s. Re- duction is effected by fixing the pelvis, so as to prevent it moving with the thigh. Extension can rarely be required in any degree. It is sufficient to adduct the thigh forcibly, which turns the head of the bone over the shallowest part of the acetabulum into its place. It is well observed by Sir Astley Cooper, that if, in doing this, we carry forward the knee, the head of the bone passes beneath the acetabulum, and is thrown into the sacx-o-sciatic notch. It would be well to have the sound thigh directed rather backward, or it may be directed forward, and the dislocated thigh drawn inward behind it. Dislocation upward, may take place in different directions. In the usual kind, the head passes up between the iliaeus and pectinaeus, if the latter be not torn. The tendons of the iliaeus and psoas are stretched over the neck, and the sub- stance of the former may be raised, so as to partly cover the