12 Intervening space near the process behind, is filled up with other muscles; for, the scalenus posticus rests here on the two lower heads of the levator scapula;, and, a little higher, on the splenius, with which it intermixes at the transverse pro- cesses. The anterior margin of the levator joins the posterior of the scalenus, and the splenius is deeper between them. The upper origin, or tooth, of the serratus major arises from the first rib just beside the scalenus, and about an inch and a half from the transverse process. It must therefore be con- nected or intermixed with the scalenus posticus. It goes to be inserted, like the rest of the muscle, into the scapula, but this portion goes to it within the fore part of the levator, with which it is connected. Hence, these three muscles are so intermixed at this part, that the levator might be supposed to be implanted also into the rib, and the scalenus posticus might be thought to have a connexion with the scapula. By cleaning the cellular and fascial substance with the knife, we can separate the muscles. The anterior or inner mai’gin of the scalenus posticus is neaidy in a line with the outer one of the anticus, but a little overlapped by it. The outermost of the cervical nerves also marks the boundary of the margin of the anticus. The posterior margin, begins at the outer and back part of the second rib, and is prolonged almost straight up by the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The middle of that part of the shining tendinous origin from the first rib, which has been called the scalenus medius, is about an inch and a half from the sternal end of the clavicle. The levator scapulae arises from the transverse processes of the four uppermost cervical vertebrae, behind the digitations of the scalenus posticus, and before those of the splenius colli. Emerging from the margin of the splenius, it becomes covered, above, by the sterno-mastoideus, and, farther down, by the trapezius. If we clear away the substance between these two muscles, we shall see, at the upper part, the margin of the splenius covei'ing or intermixing with the origin of the levator, whilst, presently, that muscle winds backwaixl and downward quite on the surface of the splenius, and a very little of it may be seen between the trapezius and sterno-mastoideus.