85 between them does really prevent the vein from turning so much on the artery. The second remark is, that the artery is to be found in the living, very much as it is in the dead, subject, not by its motion or pulsation, so much as by its posi- tion. The experienced surgeon knows this, but the young operator expects to see the artery beating in the bottom of the wound, or to feel its pulsation, strong, in proportion to its size. Whatever may happen in peculiar cases, he shall gene- rally be disappointed. He sees the artery lying where it should lie, but much quieter than he expected; and when he puts his finger on it to be sure that it is the artery he is going to insulate, he feels but slight pulsation. The pulsation and motion are more distinct after the ligature is applied. When the artery requires to be tied lower than the point I have supposed, the incision may still be made in the same way; but, after the mastoid muscle is separated from the sterno-hyoideus, with which it is more connected here, the neck must be bent a little forward, to relax the muscle, and enable us to pull it somewhat outward. The other steps of the operation are the same as formerly. If the omo-hyoideus come in the way, it can be drawn aside in the direction most favourable. The descendens noni is now a little more on the tracheal side of the artery. If we have to tie it near the cla- vicle, then, as the mastoid comes forward to the sternum, it will be necessary to consider whether we shall require, after making the external incision in the course of the artery,—that is, in the direction of a line from the sterno-clavicular articu- lation to the angle of the jaw,—to cut across and raise the sternal portion of the muscle, or leave this, and divide out- waid the clavicular portion, or go directly down between them, in a line up from the articulation, and draw the portion asunder. In either of the two first modes, we must attend to two branches of the external jugular vein, one going down by the anterior, another by the posterior margin of the muscle. 1 his muscle being disposed of, we have still the artery covered near the clavicle with a muscular sheet, formed by the sterno- hyoideus and thyroideus. The first is often connected more with the clavicle than even the sternum, being sometimes