29 tidis, in both its diameters, is just about one-half of what it is a few months afterwards. In the female, accordiiifr to Riche- rand, it only increases two-fifths, so that the structure is more like that of the child. Another circumstance to be attended to, is, that the whole laryngeal cartilages enlarge at puberty, and in a direction downward, so that the cricoid cartilage approaches proportionally nearer to the sternum, and the supersternal portion of trachea diminishes in length. This is so much the case, that, although the whole neck be longer in the adult than in the child of two years old, yet the length of this part of the trachea is nearly the same in both. There is, however, a great difference in the growth of the cartilages in different childi'en, some having them as large at the age of twelve months, as others at the end of three years. It is also evident, that the relative distances of the cartilages must vary according as the head is level or bent back. Before puberty, as has been pointed out by my brother, the space below the cricoid cartilage is increased more than that above it, by stretching back the neck, whilst, after that, the space between the chin and thyroid cartilage is most elongated; but, even in the adult, the space between the sternum and thyroid cartilage, may be increased about seven-tenths of an inch, by stretching back the neck. The jaw of the adult also extends farther back, and the rising of the alveolar processes requires an elongation of the ramus, so that the jaw must descend a little. In childhood, the os hyoides is most promi- nent, whilst in the adult the thyroid cartilage projects more. The smaller size of the larynx, in infancy, has been supposed to explain why children were peculiarly liable to croup, but it is evident that the frequency of the disease must depend on a very different cause. The difficulty of breathing, doubt- less, may be increased by the exudation of fibrin, but it also arises from the mere inflammation. The mucous coat is very red, a little thicker, more pulpy, or fleshy looking, like dense jelly, and death may take place^ without any effusion of lymph. The membranous duplicatures about the larynx are thick- ened, and the whole apparatus impaired in its action. Death would often take place from the sympathetic effects on the