413 of the urethra to its under surface, so that what has been called the membranous portion of the urethra, is really surrounded with muscular fibres, some, going distinctly from before, back- ward, so as to draw forw'ard the gland a little, or tend to shorten the urethra; others round it, supporting it like a sling. These muscular fibres have been variously described, some holding them to be merely anterior fibres of the levator ani, others, as separated from it by a thin fascia, or by veins ; and Mr. Guthrie has represented them as forming a pretty broad sheet of muscle, between the layers of the triangular liga- ment. Mr. Wilson has described them as a kind of sling round the urethra. The truth is, that they are sometimes so indistinct, as scarcely to be discovered, especially, if the sub- ject be not perfectly recent. But, when distinct, I believe they will be found to correspond to the account just given. These fibres go back to the gland, and may even, in some cases, be traced on it. The levator ani goes down close by the sides of the prostate gland, connected to it by a thin layer of fascia and cellular substance. Having seen how the pelvis is every where shut up within, by reflection of fascia, and how the prostate gland is fixed in its place, let us next examine the dissection from the peri- naeum. This space, extending from the scrotum to the anus, measures, in the adult, about two inches. The superficial fascia is continuous with that of the thighs and abdomen. This also covers the scrotum and penis. It envelops the latter completely, passing on within the prepuce, to be reflected at its margin, and lost in the corona. From the penis, it is traced as a bag over the scrotum, and thence to the perinseum, and laterally to the thigh. ^When urine escapes, by destruc- tion of the membranous part of the urethra, it is confined within this, and directed not only to the scrotum, which it distends, but also to the groin, &c. Removing this superficial fascia from the perinaeum, we find a deeper layer adherent to the muscles, affording a covering to each, and sending thin septa between them, down even to the triangular fascia and its prolongations. Clearing off this deep fascia, we expose certain distinct