11 muscle itself, therefore, were its origin quite flat or straight, should be three quarters of an inch broad. But the line of origin is somewhat curved, and therefore the breadth is not to be altogetHer determined in this way. It varies from half an inch to an inch, but the usual breadth is three quarters of an inch. The distance of the outer margin from the articulation also varies according to the size and shape of the adult, from an inch and a quarter, to an inch and three quarters, but the usual distance is an inch and a half. It is of importance to know this, as it marks the point where the subclavian passes out from behind the muscle. The muscle runs up and is inserted into the transverse processes of the 4th, 5th, and 6th, and sometimes also of the 3d cervical ver- tebrae, counting fi*om the head downwards. The inner mar- gin of the continued muscle corresponds nearly to a line drawn from the clavicle, tliree quarters of an inch from the articulation, up to the transverse process of the atlas, and will pass by the side of the top of the diyroid cartilage. The outer margin is marked by a line drawn from the clavicle, at an inch and a half from the articulation, to the same point, or to the jaw, just at the anterior margin of the masseter, the head not turning to either side. The course of the muscle, in the erect posture, is almost direct or perpendicular. It is not loosely connected, but at all times is firm, and bound down by a fascia. The posterior division, or scalenus posticus, arises from both the first and second ribs. It is thicker than the ante- rior, not so flat, consists of different fasciculi, and arises from the whole breadth of the face of the rib. The thinnest part arises from the first, the thickest from the second rib; both united form a mass an inch and a half broad. This becomes narrower as it ascends to be inserted into the transverse pro- cesses of all the cervical vertebrae, except the atlas. The origin from the second rib begins at the back part, about half an inch from the transverse process of the vertebra, and it con- tinues to arise from that, and the first rib, to at least an inch and a half from the process, so as to shut up, along with the anticus, all entrance into the thorax at this part. The small