bladder, we find, that the urethra goes down on the pubic ligament, and then turns in through the fascia. The pros- tate gland, in the erect posture, lies below, and a little back- wai'd, from the margin of the pubic ligament, the space between them being half an inch. The rectum sweeps for- ward, behind the gland and membranous part of the urethra. The bas fond extends into the lower part of the hollow of the sacrum. The Pudic artery, as large as the radial, on re-entering the pelvis, at the spine of the ischium, runs forward, on the inside of the tuberosity, and then at the ramus, toward the arch of the pubis. It lies partly on the margin of the obturator, covered by the levator, but separated from it*by a fascia, which also binds it firmly in its place, and obscures it. The external ligament sends a prolongation forward, along the ischium, forming a sulcus, or channel. The artery does not exactly lie on this, but it is a little higher, and is defended by it. The branches given off must pierce the aponeurosis which covers the artery. At the implantation of the ligament, it is about three-fourths of an inch above the margin of the bone. As it proceeds, it is an inch and a quarter from the very end of the tuberosity, and presently less than an inch from the margin of the ramus. If the finger be introduced into the rectum, up to the second joint, the artery may be felt beating through it. Venae comites accompany it. It consists of two divisions—one intended principally for the perinaeum and rectum; the other for the penis. The first consists of four branches, the second of two. ]. About three-fourths of an inch from the entrance of the artery, near the implantation of the ligament, and on the obturator, before that pass out, there is given off, the haemorrhoidea externa, which runs across, and a little for- ward, ramifying, in the angular pit of fat, already de- scribed ; and also sending twigs to the anus and end of the rectum. 2. Near an inch more forward, on the tuberosity, some- times at the root of the ramus, is given off the perinea super- ficialis, which, turning out by the margin of the erector, runs ,