128 a little anterior to, the external carotid, consequently, deeper, being in front of the internal carotid, which is on the other side of the process. The pharyngeal veins of the opposite side form a plexus, by communicating branches, on the pharynx. The inferior palatine vein usually enters the facial. It descends on the side of the pharynx from the tonsil, between the stylo-phai’yngeus and stylo-hyoideus, is both a little more external and superficial than the pharyngeal, and joins the facial within the margin of the jaw, in the region of the sub- maxillary gland. The submental vein covers the submental artery, comes along the jaw-blade over part of the submaxillary gland, between it and a conglobate gland, which lies closer to the blade. It then enters the facial, or sometimes a lower vein. It receives branches from the neighbouring muscles, glands, and tongue, and often a distinct branch runs back from the ranular vein to join it at the gland. The occipital vein is made up of branches from the scalp, and the trunk plunges in between the trapezius and sterno- mastoid a little higher than where the artery issues, and the little occipital nerve turns up over them both. It passes under the splenius, alongside of the artery, though in an opposite course, and ends in the internal jugular, or some- times in the external. It was once, more the practice, than it is now, to open one of the external jugular veins. It appears, however, very doubtfid whethermore benefit be generally derived from vene- section there, rather than from a vein in the arm. The circu- lation within the head can only be affected through the medium of branches communicating between the external and internal veins, and, on principles now admitted, can only be influenced, specially, if the velocity of the blood in the veins be increased. This will, of course, quicken the circulation within the head. We cannot diminish the absolute quantity in the brain beyond the slight degree capable of producing a small variation in the tension of the vessels, and this would be done by depletion from any vein. Cases requiring the application of a ligature to the. internal