bone, by embracing its front like a cap, and also is connected with the origin of the flexor brevis minimi digiti. All these tendons are included in synovial sheaths, or surrounded by the bursae already noticed. If the hand be strongly bent forward, the front, or face of the scaphoides, and lunare, is placed more on the articulating surface of the radius. Ihe posterior part of the capsule is stretched, and so are all the extensor tendons, with the exception of that of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. The lateral ligaments are scarcely stretched, but the oblique continuation of the posterior annu- lar ligament at the ulna is. If the force be continued, so as to produce dislocation, the lateral ligaments are more or les? torn ; the capsule, if not morbidly lax, must also be lacerated. The radius may be thrown forward, without necessarily being fractured. But, in this position of the hand, it may nlso go backward. Much more depends on the direction of the force in determining the course of the radius, than on the position of the hand, with regard to flexion or extension. When the hand is extended, and much force employed, the capsule is torn in front, the lateral ligaments are stretched or torn; but the oblique continuation of the annular ligament is rather relaxed. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is stretched, which should draw the thumb outward. The flexor tendons resist. The posterior surface of the carpal bones is more on the articulating surface of the radius, the back part of which being forced against the carpus, will resist dislocation, and is likely to be obliquely broken off, unless there be very extensive laceration. If the hand be fixed, and the radius driven strongly backward, it is possible for it to be thrown in that direction, but most cases are forward. In dislocation of the radius forward, the flexor tendons are much stretched, and so must the extensors if the annular ligament be not torn up. The hand cannot be greatly bent back, for the more it is so, the more are the flexors, and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis stretched. If there be exten- sive laceration, the mobility is great. There will be projec- tion before and behind, corresponding to the end of the radius and the carpal bones.