68 about six-tenths of an inch of the margin of the sternum. But in the natural state, it is sometimes a tenth more, whilst, on the other hand, it may ascend to merely three-eighths. The height of the origin of the innominata is the same with that of the aorta. The left margin, at its origin, sometimes corresponds to that of the trachea, and it rises up with that margin cor- responding to the left articulating sui'face of the sternum, and the right to tlie median line. In most cases, however, the left corresponds at its appearance, above the sternum, to that line. Its course being oblique, it cannot rise much above the ster- num. Its greatest elevation, is at its bifurcation into the carotid and subclavian, which tajkes place about the right sterno-clavi- cular articulation. The angle, between the two great branches, is seated at the right margin of the trachea. In some instances, the angle between them is a quarter of an inch more outward, and about the same height above the upper surface of the cla- vicle. In others, it is level with the upper margin of the cla- vicle, or even a quarter of an inch lower. It is quite impossible to say how high the oblique trunk of the innominata comes above the sternum, for there is a great variation in the obliquity of the artery, some, also, in its length and the point of bifur- cation. It may bifiu'cate on the face of the trachea, or even nearer the left side, level with the margin of the sternum; 01’, it may, before dividing, mount an inch and a half above the sternum, and its trunk, on the trachea, may be an inch above that bone. This, however, is rare, and most frequently the upper margin of the artery appears at the median line of the sternum, or a very little to the left side; consequently here it is level with the bone. When, as is not uncommon, it is a little to the left side, then, at the median line, from one half, to three-fourths, of the diameter of the artery is above the margin, and the course being oblique, it is soon all above it, emerging, more and more, as it passes to the right side. In this case, it may give off the carotid, level with the top of the clavicle, or even a little higher. The length of the artery, from the point where it appears at the sternum, to its bifurca- tion, is variable. It is sometimes only a quarter of an inch, sometimes five-eighths. It is of great importance to ascertain