476 behind the limb, so that it is not bent on the body. Pre- sently he uses crutches. Dates, must depend much on sen- sation, and the effect of a trial. The trochanter may be broken off from the shaft. It is covered by the gluteus maximus, but the connexion is by cellular substance. The other glutei muscles are inserted into its outer and inner surface and ridge. They must, therefore, draw it up, and either backward or forward, according to the direction of the fracture. If, however, their fibrous continuation along the surface of the trochanter, and the expansion of the insertion of the gemelli, &c., and origin of the vastus externus, be entire, no perceptible displacement may take place. If the fracture be within the implantation of these muscles, closer on the cervix, the trochanter must be drawn back. If the control of the anterior portion of the glutei be lost, we shall have eversion of the foot. If the trochanter be pressed into its situation, and moved back- ward and forward, or the thigh be rolled, crepitation is perceived. Sitting, or bending the thigh on the body, by stretching parts partially torn, or tender, is very painful. The treatment consists in pressing the trochanter into its situation, and retaining it there with a compress and circular band. The patient should lie on his back, with the limb straight, and a little abducted. If proper means be not used, the separation increases. In fracture, just below the trochanter minor, the upper portion is apt to be projected by the iliacus and psoas, and partly by the adductor brevis, and perhaps the upper portion of the pectineus. It may be rolled outward by the pyri- formis, &c. The projection forward is partially resisted by part of the glutei, and by the origin of the crureus, and vasti, binding down the extremity, if it be not torn. The lower portion of the shaft is carried inward, and a little backward, by the adductor longus and magnus, and upward by the rectus and long posterior muscles of the thigh. In almost every instance, the knee must be brought forward by laying the thigh on an inclined plane, so as to make the lower portion accommodate itself to the position of the upper.