three quarters of, an inch. This middle portion rests on the very top of the trachea, and reaches to about the second ring. It adheres to the trachea by very dense cellular substance. Of the great lobe, in some instances, only a little portion at the side and under part of the thyroid cartilage, rests on that. But generally, at least in the female, it extends upwards on the side of the cartilage to the root of the upper horn, resting partly on the hyo-thyroideus muscle, and downward on the trachea to about three quarters of an inch below the cricoid cartilage. It does not stretch up on the mere surface of the sides of the thyroid cartilage, but is partly folded over the lateral margin; but the tracheal portion merely goes down by the side of that tube, and does not in any degree wind behind it. The breadth of the lobe, measured from the front to the mere margin where it begins to turn over, is three quarters of an inch; but if we pull forward the gland, and measure to its side, it is about an inch and an eighth. The length of the gland varies from an inch and a half to above two inches. The direction of the lobe is obliquely backward and upward; so that, whilst the anterior margin is only three, or rarely more than five-eighths of an inch, back from the front of the cricoid cartilage, it is an inch and a quarter back from the front of the thyroid cartilage. We should, therefore, find three quarters of an inch of the crico- thyroid membrane, measured laterally, uncovered by the gland, or we might make a p*ansverse cut there to that extent, with- out injuring it. The gland is thickest at its lower part, being there five-eighths of an inch; but at the side, on the thyroid cartilage, it is only three-eighths thick. The distance from the under margin of the front, or cross slip of gland, to the sternum; or, in other words, the length of that portion of trachea which could be exposed in front without cutting the gland, varies according to the sex, and length of the neck. In short-necked females and males, it may not be much more than half an inch, but more frequently it is fully an inch. In females with long and slender necks, it may be two inches. The distance is increased by stretching back the head at least half an inch. The gland becomes connected with the recur-