134 by the fascia. When this swells it is bound down by the fascia, and extends backward so as to press on the pharynx, and thus, as well as by interfering with the free motion of the cartilages, it may impede, more or less, deglutition, and being firmly covered, it is long of opening if suppuration take place. If it be situated, as sometimes happens, farther for- ward under the thyro-hyoideus, it affects I’espiration. A puncture should be made as soon as matter has formed. A gland lies deep between the carotid artery and margin of the hyo-thyroid muscle, and if this swell, it may insinuate itself under the muscle, on the membrane, or it may form a fii’m mass like fibrin, and become attached to the thyroid gland and recurrent nerve, or some of the anterior branches of the sympathetic, and give much trouble in breathing. A pretty large gland lies behind the angle of the jaw, covered by the end of the parotid gland, but separated from it by a layer of fascia. From this we have a chain of glands, glandulae concatenatae, enclosed in a duplicature of the deep cervical fascia. These run down, partly on the front, partly to the outside of the jugular vein; a few lie on the face of the carotid, and others behind it, and some are scattered more outwardly, beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, on the tract of the cervical plexus of nerves. At the upper part, or near the mastoid process, several small glands lie covered by the mastoid muscle, and one pretty large one rests on the top of the internal jugular vein. Lower, the glands are most numerous, just within the margin of the muscle. Several ai’e met with under the trapezius, on the lateral and back pai’t of the neck, and even pretty deep among the muscles, and one or two are in the tract both of the accessory and occipital nerves. Many are found near the clavicle, beneath the tra- pezius, as far forward as the mastoid muscle, and as far back as the acromion, or in lax cellular substance between these muscles; one or two even go forward, under the mas- toid, toward the trachea, and one rests below it on the scalenus. Several lie on the face of the subclavian. All of these glands are covered by the platysma, and some of them, we have seen, both by muscles and the deeper layer of fascia. The conse-