2G there is a cavity at the top of the larynx itself, bounded before by the lower part of the epiglottis, overhung behind by the arytenoid cartilage, and which may be closed below by pressing the rima glottidis together, so as to form an entire floor to it. This may properly be called the vestibule of the glottis, and requires to be understood. In the quiescent state of the cartilages, such as we see after death, the mouth of this has an irregular, or somewhat of an elliptical shape, the long diameter being lateral, whilst a chink extends behind between the arytenoid cartilages to the extent of three-eighths of an inch. This varies in diameter, for the cartilages can be brought quite in contact by their muscles; but by separating them, it is converted into a rounded opening, which would admit a tube a quarter of an inch in diameter. Looking down under the cartilages at the vestibule, we see two bands going off from the side of the thyroid notch, and connected with the epiglottic ligament; one of these goes backward, and out- ward to the inside of the ai'ytenoid cartilage on the right, and the other on the left side. These two bands are the margins of a duplicature of the mucous membrane, for there is no distinct ligamentous substance. They do not meet in front at an acute angle, but seem rather to pass off from the sides of the epiglottic ligament, so that they are three-six- teenths of an inch separate in front, and three-eighths behind. The antero-posterior diameter of this opening is from five to seven-eighths of an inch, according to the sex and size. About three-sixteenths of an inch lower are two other duplicatures, one on each side, containing distinctly a cord, called the liga- mentum thyreo-arytenoideum. They go off from an eighth to three-sixteenths of an inch below the thyroid notch, to the arytenoid cartilage; they almost meet at the front; but be- hind they are, in the dead state, a quarter of an inch separate. They can be brought in contact. They do not extend to the posterior margin of the cricoid cartilage. Between these two bands, called the vocal cords, is, on each side, a sacculus laryngis. Its length is about three quarters ol an inch, its breadth varies with the stretching of the coi'ds, and its depth is nearly a quarter of an inch. This rima can be shut by