395 ward to the inside of the side of the pubis, near its arch, we shall find, in that part, a tendinous band more or less distinct and strong. Its situation is low in the pelvis, its upper margin being fully an inch and a half below the top of the foramen thyroideum, consequently, it only hides or covers the lower part of the obturator, but sometimes it does rise higher. The muscular fibres, of the levator ani, are not seen from the cavity of the pelvis, for it is covered by the fascia lying on the outer surface of the portion I'eflected to the bladdei", &c. If we trace the pelvic fascia down, over the obturator, to this angle of reflection, we shall find that at the line of the origin of the levator, a thin layer passes down on the rest of the obturator between it and the levator, which thus has a layer on both surfaces, and indeed has, besides, a proper thin aponeurosis on its pelvic face. If we cut and dissect off the fascia, as it is reflected to the bladder, &c., we expose the i muscle, and find that it runs backward by the side of the lower part of the bladder and prostate gland, to the rectum in the male, and in the female, by the bladder and vagina. The anterior fibres run downward and backward, on the inner sur- I face of the rami of the pubis and ischium. Those from the .{ spine of the ischium, run downward, and almost directly i inward, to the point of the coccyx. Its insertion and its ^ appearance from the perineum will be afterwards noticed, t Its margin is bounded behind by the coccygeus, a triangular i sheet, going to the coccyx and side of the sacrum. The $ upper margin of that muscle is bounded in its turn by the ^ pyriformis, and covers the upper saci'o-sciatic ligament. On 4 removing the viscera, then, and the pelvic fascia, we find the I floor still defended in the sacro-sciatic interval, and down to k the coccyx, by the pyriformis and coccygeus, and, in what is 0 more properly called the outlet, by the levator ani. The aorta, having the vena cava to its right side, divides B into the two common iliac arteries, sometimes so low as the last, I or so high as the third lumbar vertebra, or from two to three I inches above the sacrum. The vein, divides generally about an inch lower, and often c so much to the side as to have its bifurcation covered by