527 in this view, that is, more toward the opposite side of the foot, but scarcely farther back than the nerve, is the tendon of the flexor-pollicis, which is therefore more or less hid by it, in this lateral view. The abductor pollicis rises from the inside of the os calcis, an inch forward from the end of the bone, and from the fibrous covering at its junction with the naviculare. The first head is the largest. The artery pro- ceeds to enter between these originsj and before passing between the bone and the muscle, or, just Avhere it has got covered by the outer or thickest origin, about three quarters of an inch below the malleolus, it divides into the two Plantar arteries. Just before this division, or sometimes from the external plantar, there is sent off to the heel a pretty large branch, which ramifies minutely on that side, whilst the fibu- lar side is supplied from the peronea. Both ramify in the cellular substance of the heel. The Internal plantar artery runs forward, covered by the smallest head of the abductor; then, between that muscle and the flexor brevis. It supplies these muscles and the skin, and, at the first phalanx of the great toe, it ends in ramuli. The External plantar is the largest division, or rather the continuation of the trunk. This goes obliquely forward and outward, to the root of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Then, it winds inward, toward that of the great toe, joining there with the connect- ing branch of the antica. The kind of arch thus formed, is from an inch, to an inch and a quarter, from the articulation of the first phalanges. The artery in its first course, (outward,) is covered by the abductor pollicis, and flexor brevis digitorum, and in this tract it is seen, merely by raising the latter, to traverse the outer margin of the accessorius, and tendons of the flexor longus. In its course forward, it runs by the outer margin of the flexor brevis, covered by it, with the nerve to its tibial side. It is fully an inch tibial of the side of the foot, at the head of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. When it winds inward, it becomes deeper, and is covered by the tendons of both flexors, and the lumbricales, crossing the bones and interossei. In the first part, many irregular mus-