out of the mouth. From the lower end of the epiglottis, the pei-pendicular or thyroid ligament, and the epiglottic gland, participating, as well as from affection of the arytenoid mem- brane, the respiration is difficult, and fatal laryngitis may be the result. Venesection, to be useful, must be prompt and liberal, and followed by leeches to the external fauces, at the same time that the bowels are opened. Should these means fail, bhsters may be applied, but I have no great confidence in their efficacy. When the disease is produced by acrid sub- stances, as hartshorn, or by swallowing boiling water, the same treatment is to be pursued, but we dare not bleed so freely; and I fear that bhsters should only increase the external swelling, and add to the general distress. A little thick cream, idone, or mixed with linseed tea, may be allowed to pass over slowly. Wlien the difficulty of breathing is extreme, laryngo- tomyis the only remaining resource, for the parts coidd scarcely bear the introduction of a tube from the nostril. The epiglottis, from the part where it is connected to the tongue by the reflection of the mucous membrane, measures one inch to its apex, and is an inch broad at its base. It sends a peak down below the os hyoides, ending m ligament, which is inserted into tlie notch of the thyroid cartilage. If we cut the mucous membrane at the tongue, we also see the epiglottis to be connected along its whole breadth to the os hyoides, by a dense cellular, or fibrous attachment. If we cut m the hyo-thyroid space, either the mucous membrane within, or the hyo-thyroid membrane on the outside, and examine what is between them, we find, at the side of the epiglottis, a few muscular fibres, the thyreo-epiglottideus; whilst, at the front, there is between the hyo-thyroid membrane, and the descending peak of the epiglottis, and its perpendicular ligament, and also a little to each side of that, a dense spongy looking substance, called the epiglottic gland. This tissue may swell, and must then render the parts there tense, and every motion uneasy. If the swelling be great, respiration is affected. I have noticed the duplicature which extends from the epiglottis to the arytenoid cartilage, and the aryteno-epiglot- tidean fossa, which it forms. I next may observe, that