156 the middle ganglion, or separating from tlie superficialis, be large, it receives a second head from the lower ganglion, which is all that we have for the inferior cardiac. If it be small, then, there is a large nerve given off from the inferior plexus, near the root of the left carotid artery. This, at the angle between it and the left subclavian, divides into two; one goes over the face of the aorta, the other behind it, to join the great cardiac of the right side, and form the cardiac plexus. The eighth also, on this side, sends a cardiac branch to the sympathetic. The continued trunk of the sympathetic, from the superior ganglion, runs down behind the carotid, and by the outside of the superficial cardiac, to the middle ganglion, which is so named not from its situation in the neck, for it is usually placed between the fifth and sixth vertebrae, or on a line with the bottom of the cricoid cartilage, sometimes a little lower, but from its relation to the other two. As it lies either on, or a little above the inferior thyroid artery, it has also been called the thyroid ganglion. It is small, and somewhat rounded in its shape. Indeed, it is often rather a plexus, formed by intricate interlacement of fibres, than a solid ganglion. The continued trunk, as well as the superficial cardiac, generally pass over the thyroid artery; but in a few cases, we find the trunk go behind the artery. From this ganglion or plexus, some twigs go inward to the thyroid gland, and a very dis- tinct plexiform coating of nerves accompanies the thyroid artery to the gland. From this ganglion, besides the cardiac nerve, we have either a continued trunk, or two or more branches of differ- ent sizes, descending to the infex’ior ganglion, which is large and plexiform. On the right side, it is placed behind the subclavian artery, extending sometimes a little lower, or a little higher. The vertebral artery, at its origin, lies in front of it. It is involved in twigs from it, and one slender branch runs up with the artery into its canal. On the left side, it is behind the lower part of the carotid artery, and exposed by drawing that outward. The thoracic duct is before the nerve. The connexion with the middle ganglion is not always the