207 wliich i*adiate or proceed inward or median, into the lin- gualis muscle and substance of the tongue. The largest of these, goes forward, close by the frenum, as the continuation of the trunk, to ramify to the tip. The ranular vein, which a lit- tle farther back, was median to the nerve and lower, now, near the frenum, gets rather higher, and then, at the frenum, rather to the outside of the nerve, though sometimes it is not more outward but more superficial. The artery is higher, that is, more in the substance of the tongue, and perhaps a little more outward, but not much. The submaxillary duct opens close by the side of the frenum, and a little lower than all the other parts. The ninth nerve, on reaching the mar- gin of the hyo-glossus, plunges into the genio-hyo-glossus, and begins to ramify there, and in the substance of the tongue* Its continuation, or largest branch, runs forward in the tongue, first below, and then to the inside and above the artery. At the frenum, it is almost above the artery, that is, higher in the substance of the tongue. For about three quarters of an inch from the tip, there is at least half an inch of the tongue on each side, clear of the trunk of the fifth nerve. The nerve is less and less remote from the side of the tongue, as we go back toward the pillar of the fauces. If we pass the ligature, or carry the knife beyond the angle, where the membrane is reflected from the lower surface of the tongue, we not only come on the nerve and the sublingual artery, where it arises from the facial, but are apt to injure the duct, near the frenum, and the sublingual gland. Acute swelling of the tongue, is sometimes produced by an affection of the fifth pair of nerves, and the appearance is much the same with that produced by mercury. The pain may be great. Glossitis may also be produced by acrid sub- stances, injuries, &c., and if the swelling be great, deglutition is prevented^ and if the base be interested, the epiglottis is pressed back, the vestibule encroached on, and the size of the rima diminished, so that it might be necessary to perform laryngotomy. Topical bleeding, by scarification, or other- wise, does however often rapidly abate the swelling. When abscess forms, I have already noticed its course.