288 crossed by the supra-scapular nerve. Coming off high, generally from the spiral nerve, we have a large nerve which runs down on the subscapularis muscle, between it and the other nerves, and is not seen till they be displaced. This divides into two, one, the infra-scapularis nerve, from which, or the common trunk, two or more branches, go into the snbscapularis muscle, whilst the continuation of the nerve runs down, and a little backward, to meet the infra-scapular artery, which it accompanies. It attaches itself to the face or up- per margin of its vein, and proceeds to the latissimus. The other, the articular nerve, runs down, nearer to the joint, passing under, or behind the infra-scapularis artery, to meetthe circumflex artery which it accompanies, going back between the subscapularis muscle and the artery, sometimes a very lit- tle nearer the angle of the scapula. Besides these nerves, there are other two, very important, in the axilla, called inter- costo-humeral. These come out from the first and second intercostal space, covered by the pectoralis minor, and the upper one, often, by the axillary vein. They, particularly the lowest, not only traverse the axilla outward, parallel to the face of the vein, and go to the fascia and skin of the axilla, and down over the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, to the triceps, but interlace with the thoracic nerve, forming a ramification which both accompanies the mammary vessels, and involves the axillary glands. In the axilla, they run about three quarters of an inch, back, from the inner surface of the pectoi'alis major. I finish this front view, by noticing the vascular branches. The arteries may be divided into those called thoracic, given off between the subclavius and the joint, and those given off at the under margin of the snbscapularis. The thoracics are usually described as four in number, the superior, the hume- raria, mammaria, and alaris. Generally, these come off either in two trunks, or, if separately, they are usually quite close. In the space between the subclavius and pectoralis minor, about an inch below the under margin of the clavicle, and from an inch to an inch and a quarter, to the inside of the coracoid process, the two first come off, either close by each