163 fore, found that the division of both sets is less injurious than tliat merely of the recurrent. If only the superior be divided, then the constrictors are affected, and the animal cannot close the glottis in swallowing, so that food or drink finds its way into the larynx. It is, in our experiments, to be observed, that, after death, all the muscles being quiescent, the glottis is found neither quite shut, nor so open, as it is in inspiration, and the extent of the opening is greater in old than in young animals. Hence, the division of the recurrent is more dan- gerous in the latter than in the former. If we divide these nerves in old rabbits, there is sometimes little effect pro- duced, except occasional wheezing or croaking, and sometimes a noise like an effort to vomit, which a rabbit cannot do. Young rabbits seldom live three days, sometimes not twenty- four hours. The effects produced, are, first, difficult breathing, from the diminished power of the dilators. Even when at rest, there are wheezing and cough, and fits of breathlessness; but when in motion, there are croaking, or barking cough, and severe paroxysms of noisy breathing; second, we have inflam- mation of the larynx and trachea inditced, which increases the difficulty, for, we find the inner surface of both of these of a deep red colour, and cheesy pus is found on the surface; third, we have, probably, in consequence of the laborious breathing, an effect produced on the lungs, which are red and gorged with blood, but not solid; more or less fluid is found in the thorax. This state of the lungs very generally is produced by croup, and other laryngeal affections; and, therefore, if an operation be contemplated, in any such cases, it ought to be early performed. One species of croup is, from first to last, laryngitis, and is to be treated accordingly; but another arises from the state ot the muscles, consequent to an affection of the eighth pair of nerves. It is called spasmodic, though oftener it is rather paralytic, or, at least, dependant on diminished or irregular action of the dilators. It often arises from the state of the origin of the eighth pair of nerves, produced sometimes by the condition of the brain, of which it may be the first symp- tom; sometimes by the state of the fifth pair in dentition;