368 before we expose the artery or nerve. The nerve is, as it were, on the margin of the ulna, almost hid between the sublimis and profundus, and on drawing outward the latter, we expose it better, and see the artery to its radial side, with its veins, from which it is to be separated. As the nerve is, in all this track, near the artery, we must be more on our guard, than in tying the radial artery, and, on no account, are we to make a random plunge with the needle, or permit its point to separate from the artery. It should be directed from within, outward, and ought to be blunt. The artery is easily insulated, by raising the fascia from its face, by a pair of forceps, and then, with the end of a probe, separating it from the veins. When we proceed higher, or, to about three inches and a half, or four, below the peak of the condyle, the mus- cles adhere, so that we cannot, without cutting through them, expose the artery, which, if traced upward, is found to be covered by the united mass of flexor radialis, sublimis, and palmaris. But, in casual injuries, such a large wound may have already been made, as, with veiy little enlarge- ment, shall expose the vessel. We must remember, that, here, the nerve is not our guide, for the artery descends toward it, at an angle, from its origin, and they do not meet till about four inches below the peak of the condyle. At the joint, we can expose the artery, by cutting, there, along the radial margin of the pronator. We turn it inward, and then see the end of the brachieus, with the median nerve on it. Pressing inward, the nerve, the artery is seen to its radial side, but a little deeper, and bounded, radi- ally, by the biceps tendon. Its venm comites are oblique. The dissection is rather deep, and not likely to be practised; but in cases of open wounds, it is well to know the rela- tions. Fracture of the radius more frequently occurs, than of both bones, and that of the ulna, alone, is comparatively rare. When the radius is fractured just below the tubercle, the biceps tends to roll the neck outward, as in supination, and