branches to the different parts it travei-ses, and one is distinct enough to be named. It is given off at the scapula, but does not sink deep, -It ramifies on the surface of the supra- spinatus and acromion, anastamosing with the acromial branch of the thoracic humerus. It is named the super- ficial scapular artery. The Posterior or Dorsal scapular artery runs higher and traverses the neck, as the other did the clavicle, to the shoulder. It may arise either directly from the subclavian, or be given off from the thyroid. In the former case, it is a deep artery, and arises just after the subclavian has passed the scaleni, or even before it have cleared the scalenus anti- cus. It is, therefore, enveloped in the axillary nerves, and generally passes out with some of them before, and some behind it, or under them all, as well as the scaleni and levator scapulai. It does not, however, pursue its course entirely below this last muscle, but either comes in one U’unk througli it, and gets on its surface, or it sends one large branch through its fasciculi, which descends on the levator, to the superior costa, and anastomoses with the superior scapulai' artery, or supphes its place when deficient. The trunk con- tinues under the levator, or, if it have come through it, passes again between two fasciculi, to get below it, and reach the angle of the scapula. It then passes down by the posterior costa on the serratus posticus, and covered by the rhombodei, going to the extremity of the scapula, and anastomosing with the infra-scapular. In its course it gives branches to the deep muscles and up on the splenius, especially when the transvers- alis colli, to be afterwards noticed, is small or short. In other cases, the transversalis colli divides, at the anterior margin of the levator, into two branches; one, large, goes up over the back of the levator under the trapezius, and on over the sple- nius, the other, turns down in front of the levator, towards the scapida. If this branch be small the transversalis humeri is large. This artery often arises, not, iis I have described it, from the subclavian, but from the Thyroid, along with the cervicalis superficialis. The common trunk given off by the thyroid, in this case, is named the Transversalis colli, and