455 and of the crural sac, or prolongation of fascia, and also the border of the ligament adherent to that fascia. We are not to cut deeper there, nor beyond the border, for it is useless, and endangers the obturator artery. It would, if necessary, be better to cut a little of the ligament, as it is forming the channel, not going quite through to the floor on which the round ligament lies. The obturator often comes off" from the epigastric, runs along the fascia, above the poste- rior border of the groove, and winds down, close, by the lunated margin of the crescentic implantation. 1 first detected the falciform process, in the beginning of this cen- tury, in an oedematous female, and, in her, the artery ran thus. It was, at that time, asserted, that this origin was rare, but it is now admitted to be exceedingly frequent. It still is, on high authority, maintained, that, in most cases of this kind, the artery must go down by the outer margin of the hernia. This can only be, if the artery do not make a sweep, and attach itself, which it often does, to the lunated margin. If the artery run so, it can only be avoided, by not carrying the incision high, for the artery is not so low as the mere border. A small artery often runs pretty near the bordei’, from the epigastric to the pubis. It has been proposed to cut inward—that is, to divide the crescentic implantation and the fascia which covers it. This, inevitably, must divide the obturator artery, should it be attached to the pubal margin of the ring. But, besides this objection, we find that a much more extensive incision will be required, to relieve the stricture, than if it be made in front, where the finger ascertains it to be most powerful. We must also go deeper with the bistoury, for the neck is longer here than in front, and the incision must be more difficult, and the intestine more endangered. Sir Astley Cooper’s arguments on this point are very conclusive; and whoever dissects the crescentic implantation, must see, that, if traced from the lunated margin, it goes obliquely inward, or toward the pubis, and backwai'd. The bistoury must be carried, to a considerable extent, obliquely inward. It has been proposed, in femoral hernia, to divide the