534 of the head of the fibula. 'Fhe aponeurosis is to be scratched through, and then slit up on a director. The margin of the extensor digitorum, is, often, tendinous for more than half way up the leg. The tibialis anticus does not show tendon till lower, perhaps four inches above the ankle. The tendon of the extensor pollicis appears from between them, sometimes at four inches, sometimes only two above the ankle. We can easily distinguish the tendons by their distance from the shin. If we are a little higher than the tendons, we look for a cellular line. We first, with a light touch of the point of the scalpel, exhibit the boundary, at the same time that we press the muscles in opposite directions. The separation down to the ligament, is to be completed by the handle. The rule is to keep close by the individual muscle nearest the tibia, and to see, that not the slightest cellular line lies to the tibial side of our incision, otherwise, we go on the wrong side of the extensor pollicis. We separate, in a direc- tion obliquely inward, as if we were going to the back of the tibia. The artery, here, is nearly an inch deep, from the aponeurosis, between its two veins, and with the nerve on its fibular margin. In the upper part of the leg, we require, as the artery is deeper, to make the incision a little longer, in the line de- scribed (page 501), as marking, there, the boundary of the muscle. Or, in a slender leg, in the course of a thread, one end of which, below, is placed on, or a very little forward from, the anterior margin of the fibular malleolus, and the other, above, on the outside of the head of the tibia, that is, between it and the head of the fibula. The aponeurosis being slit up, we look carefully for an indistinct cellular line, and to make this more visible, we press the muscles to opposite sides. As we can readily make a false division, with the scal- ■ pel, it will be better to employ, the flat end of a firm probe. We cannot, without force, with this, go into the substance of the muscle, and if we once make a slight separation, and find the surface smooth, or covered with a very thin cellular layer, or sometimes a septum of fascia, we are sure of our ground.