161 and the former is discovered by pulling the trunk, which shews its place under the membrane; or, by cutting the mem- brane, we trace it. Having got into the hyo-thyroid space, it divides into two branches; the one goes forward within the front of the thyroid cartilage, chiefly to the investing mem- brane; the other goes to the arytenoid cartilage, and its smaller muscles, which act as constrictors. When a tumour either forms, or extends, under the thyro-hyoideus muscle, there is, if that and the other muscles do not relax and yield, or allow the tumour to protrude from between them, not only a mechanical effect produced by pressure on the top of the larynx, but likewise this nerve is affected. The voice is changed, and there is wheezing more or less constant, and in a degree proportioned to the pressure. In removing such a tumour, we must divide the muscles completely, so as to expose it, and then we carefully separate it from the mem- brane; for so long as that is entire, the nerve is safe, and so is the artery. The only risk is at the margin, and there we may not only cut the nerve if w'e go too deep, but if we go back carelessly, we may open the thyroid arteiy. If any arterial branch be opened, it must be tied before dressing the wound, for a very little blood effused under the uniting plaster produces difficult breathing; and if the wound be not opened, suffocation may take place. The branch next in order is the cardiac; but it will be better to notice first the inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve. It sometimes comes off so high as the thyroid cartilage, but remains intimately attached to the trunk, till it pass the subclavian on the right side; but frequently its origin cannot be traced much higher than the point where it leaves the trunk, and in scarcely any instance does it pass over the artery as a separate nerve. It leaves the trunk at the under mai’gin of the subclavian artery, and immediately winds back to its posterior surface, and runs up the side of the trachea. From the convexity of this hook formed by the nerve, different small branehes are given off, w'hich join the cardiac branches of the eighth, and of the sympathetic, and particularly the branches sent from the inferior jranfflion. It therefore con- O O