397 ter. About an inch and a half farther down, and on the face of the vein, tlie internal iliac gives off the umbilical, a large short stump in the adult, which quickly subdivides into the obtura- tor, vesical, uterine, vaginal, and middle haemorrhoidal, though sometimes these, especially the first, come off separately. From the end of this stump there proceeds, by the side of the bladder, the consolidated remains of the artery, which in the foetus is the main trunk. Just where the umbilical comes ofF, or perhaps a little above it, a very large branch, the Glutea, from the back of the artery, dives, at once, backward and down- ward, between two of the nerves of the sacral plexus, and passes out at the upper margin of the pyriformis. What appears to be the continuation of the artery, is the Ischiatic, which goes down on the nerves and pyriformis, and out by its under margin. The Pudic artery, which passes out with it, comes off sometimes at its origin, but generally from it about an inch above its exit. It is more external or nearer the side of the pelvis than the trunk. These all are either covered by, or involved in, the pelvic fascia, so that although they and the nerves pass out, there is no direct communication between the outside and the inside, that is, the finger cannot pass by their sides either out or in without lacerating a layer of fascia, and hence, if the arteries be wounded externally, and an aneurism be formed, the blood passes not into the pelvis, and if the tumour intrude at all, it must be by carrying the fascia before it. When we peel off the peritonaeum and rectum, we see large veins on the side of the sacrum coming from the fora- mina and sacra media. The abdominal parietes are supplied with nerves, princi- pally, by the last dorsal and first lumbar nerves. The Last Dor- sal is large, runs along the lower margin of the last rib, and is easily seen on removing the peritonaeum. It speedily divides into two branches, one of which runs downward and forward to be lost in the muscles; another runs higher, and more transversly or outwardly, to the quadratus and other muscles behind. It also sends a branch along the crest of the ilium for a little way, when it penetrates the muscles attached there, turns over the crest, and is distributed externally to the in-