4-G the constrictor, swell up the mastoid muscle, and either separate it behind from the trapezius, or before from the sterno-thyroideus, and appear in the neck covered only by the platysma and fascia. By pressing on the tumour, with one finger in the mouth and another on its lower or most prominent part in the neck, the existence of fluid may be determined. It may be easily, and, so far as I have seen, safely opened in the neck, provided the aperture be closed. The fluid soon collects. After a second or third opening, the aperture may be kept open. A sinus forms, but at last the cavity is obliterated. The pharynx may inflame just below the tonsil; and when this cynanche pharyngea ends in suppuration, an abscess is formed lower than in cynanche tonsillaris. It is more out of sight, causes more pain, and difficulty in swallowing, and often so much in breathing, that it might be desirable to open the abscess, could it be easily done. I have, however, never seen a case where this was absolutely necessary. The matter gene- rally forms on the inside of the constrictor medius ; and, there- fore, does not point outwardly. It presses, farther from each other, the palato-pharyngeus and stylo-pharyngeus, and opens by the margin of the former muscle through the mucous mem- brane. Were the tumour large, and the symptoms so urgent as to demand an operation, then, if it could not be safely reached from the mouth, an opening must be cautiously made through the constrictor medius, at the end of the os hyoides. After makinff such an external incision as enables us to judge O that the lingual artery and nerve are not in the way, a small puncture should be made at the spot where the matter is best felt. must not go so far back as to come on the carotid, and must also remember’ the curve which is sometimes made by the thyroidea superior. If we go too high, we must take care of the facial artery. The veins may be seen and pressed aside. As there are many important parts here, and they are, even when the constrictor is extended by matter, near each other, the opening must be small, and is never to be made, uidess the difficulty of breathing be extreme. Two small, or short, and two long muscles, cover the larynx