200 Matter may work down, toward the skin behind the chin, but it is more likely to point within the mouth, under the tongue. Next, we have the hyo-glossi muscles, one at each side, con- nected to the corresponding surface of the genio-hyo-glossus, by cellular substance, whilst the very margin of the tongue, is bounded by the stylo-glossi; but, as these traverse the hyo- glossi on their respective sides, they are intimately inter- mixed with these last. If we separate the hyo-glossus from the genio-hyo-glossus, we find that they are connected, merely, by cellular substance, up to the under surface of the tongue, but reaching this, we discover there interposed between them, a strip of muscle much finer and more delicate in its fibre or texture, extending all the way from the base to the tip. This is the lingualis, and we have one on each side of the tongue. If we now proceed to follow the genio-hyo-glossus into the middle of the tongue, we find it ending in a firm and dense intermixture of muscular fibre, which forms a thick stratum, reaching up to the covering of the upper surface of the tongue, and adhering strongly to it. This is three quarters of an inch thick, at the thickest part of the tongue, but it be- comes thinner toward the tip and the base, where it is very thin, and connected to the fibrous substance at the os hyoides, from which the genio-hyo-glossi rise. When we examine this muscle, we not only trace the genio-hyo-glossi into it, but also the hyo-glossi and inner margin of the stylo-glossi, all of which, either contribute to form this, or terminate in it. We also find, that it is not only connected, on each side of the genio-hyo-glossi, with the strip called lingualis, but is so identified with it, that we may not improperly say, that the intrinsic muscular substance of the tongue, consists of a broad sheet, extending over its upper surface, and covered with the corium, whilst it dips a little way down, between the genio- hyo-glossus and hyo-glossus, like a keel on both sides. The thick horizontal portion, has been described as divided into a right and left portion, by a median septum, but this is sel- dom visible. It is more correct to say, that the different muscles going to the tongue, are lost insensibly in this, than that they form it. The muscular fibres of this portion, have