76 point, they may both be about an inch back, from the exposed face of the cartilage or trachea, and about half an inch deep from the margin of the mastoid muscle, in the average state of the parts. As the thyroid cartilage comes more forward, the artery is, if uninjected, an inch and three-tenths back from the fi'ont of the exposed thyroid cartilage. It is, when full, very little behind the posterior margin of the cartilage. If flaccid, it is three-tenths behind it, and half an inch deep from the margin of the mastoid muscle. The common carotid artery runs up the neck in the direc- tion of a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the angle of the jaw, but we follow this line only to the bifur- cation, opposite the hyo-thyroid space. This does not corre- spond in all its length to the margin of the mastoid muscle, for that, near the clavicle, comes more over the artery, and nearer the median line. For the upper three-fourths of the neck the artery may be exposed by cutting at the margin of the muscle, but in the under fourth the muscle must be partly separated from the bone to get at it. Tlie sterno-thjToideus, we have seen, shelves quite below the mastoid at the lower part. Higher up, the mastoid still lies a little over the mar- gin of the sterno-thyroideus, and sometimes even of the sterno- hyoideus. The omo-hyoideus passes more or less directly down on, and by, die side of the sterno-thyroideus, and very early is overlapped by the mastoid, under which it presently passes over the artery in its way to the scapula. Now the mastoid is at its anterior or tracheal margin, connected to these muscles by fascia, and we cannot raise that margin, or expose the artery, even after the platysma is cut, till this connexion also be divided. Till we descend to the lower fourth of the neck, sometimes even a little lower, the artery may be readily found by cutting parallel to the margin of the mastoid muscle, and pressing it back a little from the sterno-hyoideus and omo-hyoideus, and we therefore, in tying the artery about the middle of the neck, take the mastoid muscle as our guide in making the first incision. But the artery is not merely overlapped by that muscle, or covered by the deep fascia which connects that to the other muscles.