370 treatment is proper, if only one bone be broken. Fracture at the lower part is not attended with farther approximation of the bones, it it be within three quarters of an inch of the end of the radius, for they are there, already, in contact. The length of the fossa, itself, of the radius, for receiving the ulna, is half an inch. Fracture of the radius, very near the wrist, must generally be accompanied with sprain, and, consequently, with swelling. But, besides this, the shaft of the bone is likely to be carried forward, and the hand is thrown a little backward and outward, and turned more or less to the radial side. Hence, there is some depression at the margin of the radius, where it is broken, and a corresponding pi'ojection at the low'er part of the ulna. Transverse fracture very near the end, may exist without much displacement, but the radius is usually broken obliquely, and by causes which, at the same time, force the shaft forward. If the radius be not separated from the ulna, and ride on it, there can be no diminution of the breadth, for the reason already stated. The reduction is accomplished by extension, after which we must not only,, by a splint long enough to comprehend the hand, prevent it from bending backward or forward, but must also so con- trive, as to resist the tendency to turn the hand outward or radially. In childhood, the bones being pliable, are sometimes bent, but that oftener happens to the radius alone. It is usually bent forward, the interosseous ligament is stretched, the bone being arched, and the forearm is rigidly in a state of semi- pronation. The bone is to be pressed into its proper shape. The Wrist joint has a double construction. The radius is articulated with the scaphoides and lunare. The os cunei- forme, which also makes part of the carpal articular arch, slopes more abruptly than the other two, and therefore the ulna, not being longer than the radius, cannot touch it. The intermediate deficiency is supplied by a cartilaginous plate, sent off from the ulnar margin of the articular cartilage of the radius. This, which is called the interarticular cartilage, extends between Uie ulna and cuneiforme, and is attached by