226 gold process. Its upper margin, where it is attached to the nostril, is nearly on a line, as high as the margin of the lower part of the orbit, about five-eighths above the floor of the nostril, but being somewhat arched, the highest part may be three quarters of an inch. The lower margin, which is car- tilaginous, is about a quarter of an inch above the floor of the nostril, but it is not quite straight. It is often soft, and, sometimes, it is not only soft, but pendulous, so as to reach nearly to the floor of the nostril, particularly at the back part. This is not natural, but it is not exactly of the nature of polypus. The middle, generally called the superior turbinated bone, begins about half an inch farther back, and an inch higher, being nearly on a line with the internal canthus of the eye. But as the middle bone is more horizontal, and the upper margin of the lower one arched, there is, at the most arched part, only, a distance of five-eighths, between the upper margin of each. It is about an inch and a half above the bony margin of the maxilla, at the root of the septum of the nostril. The distance between the lower margin of this, and the upper one, of the inferior turbinated bone, is about three-sixteenths of an inch. It does not come so far forward as the lower bone. Its convex surface approaches nearer the septum, than that of the lower, for if the septum be, as is often the case, bent a little to one side, there is only one-eighth of an inch between them at some parts. The highest or smallest turbinated bone, is often like a de- rivation from the middle one, its under margin going, almost, in a line straight back from the inner canthus of the eye, whilst that of the middle one, is curved a little downward. It closes the ethmoid cells towai’d the nostril. Between it and the mid- dle bone, is a very distinct sulcus, fully three quarters of an inch long. A line from the root of the septum of the nostril, to the anterior end of the bone, measures about an inch and a half; to its posteidor end, about two. In extracting polypus, it is important to attend to these particulars. If the polypus arise from the lower bone, for- ceps almost straight, may grasp it, if run directly back, above