203 It is covered by a soft mucous membrane, and goes on, over the whole dorsum of the tongue, first, as follicular, and then as papillary texture. Behind this fibrous membrane, on the epiglottis, we see a yellowish substance, which extends down between the hyo- thyroid membrane, and the peak of the epiglottis, to the thy- roid cartilage. This, which has been called the epiglottic gland, may be considered as a part of the yellow substance, which passes into the follicles. The appearance of the tongue changes much in disease, partly, from its connexion with the stomach, partly, from the state of the fifth pair of nerves. The mucous secretion may be increased or altered in its nature, and after it is dried, it forms a crust, varying in colour and thickness. In other cases, the papillae and follicles are inflamed. The surface has a fiery or red appearance, without mucous coating. This is a frequent attendant on gastritis. In some instances, the greater part of the mucous membrane becomes inflamed, and red, with the follicles particularly so, and also enlarged. Aphthae have been supposed to be inflamed follicles, with an increased secretion distending the epithelium, but this opin- ion is not established. Excoriations begin with small blis- tering of the epidermis, which breaks and displays a i*aw' surface, and sometimes the disease goes deeper and spreads like phagedena. In other cases, we find, especially from the irritation of a sharp tooth, that an erosion forms, which goes deeper, and then it also spreads laterally but slowly, and the base becomes slightly indurated. This, at first, is readily cured, by filing or removing the tooth, but if neglected, the corium assumes a malignant action, and the ulceration stead- ily spreads, both laterally and deeply, whilst, in some cases, the lymphatic glands, under the jaw, swell. There is a great discharge of foetid saliva, much pain, and the patient at last IS exhausted. The corium also undergoes more chronic changes. I he substance becomes denser and harder. The follicles, at first, seem wider, but after a time, they are, to appearance, lost in the thickened membrane, which be- comes rough, and presently it forms a hard tumour.