91 once, we divide parts we ought not to touch. If we intro- duce the finger directly in, that is transversely, in front of the margin of the mastoid muscle, its point touches the artery. If directed a little backward, then, the nail is covered by the muscle, and the point rests on the internal carotid. The inter- nal jugular vein lies behind the artery; that is, a little farther back. The external jugular lies in front of the artery, and more superficially. I cannot say how the various branches may be placed in any particular case, but usually the facial vein unites in front of the external carotid, either with the continuation of the maxillary vein, which passes down close by the anterior margin of the artery, or with one a little more superficial coming down from the parotid gland, and passing by the pos- terior margin of the artery. These often join, on the face of the digastric muscle, but may also keep distinct. In either case, the union generally forms an external jugular vein, wliich is connected by a large, but short cross branch, to the internal jugular, or, frequently, these veins directly end in this. In either case, we have the external carotid crossed by a large vein, sometimes so low as at its origin, but gene- rally a little higher, or even near the angle of the jaw. When the lingual vein does not join with the pharyngeal or the posterior facial, it usually enters directly into the inter- nal jugular, and runs sometimes a little higher than the cross branch described, but often within it, or covered by it. What- ever the distribution is, then, we have the external carotid crossed, higher or lower, by at least one vein, also by the lingual nerve. An accompanying vein lies close in front of the artery, and another behind it, and in certain cases, the artery is in contact with the internal jugular vein. From the bifurca- tion of the common carotid artery, to the under margin of the digastric muscle, measures only, even when the head is bent back, three quarters of an inch, or nearly a quarter less if it be quite erect. This venous distribution, then, must cover much of the artery. The thyroid comes off at the origin of the artery; the laryngeal nerve comes out from within the carotid, about midway between the giving off of this branch, and the crossing of the lingual nerve, which, on