255 forward, by the outer canthus, toward the cheek bone, rami- fying on the orbicularis palpebrarum, and very apt to be divided in injuries of this part. The trunk of the artery, as it crosses the zygoma, is easily felt pulsating, and may be readily exposed and tied, by dividing the anterior auris muscle, and pai'otid fascia, but no ligature ought ever to be be applied here, unless the artery be wounded at this spot. The various temporal branches, communicate so freely with one another, that when any one is wounded, it must, if it bleed much, be tied where it is injured, for no good is gained by tying the trunk. There are no less than five temporal arteries, two deep, two superficial, and one middle, all of which anastomose so freely, that they may be considered as one ramification. I have, indeed, seen the trunk tied on the zygoma, to stop the circulation in an anastomosing aneurism, or the bleeding of a wounded branch, but with as little effect, as if the ligature had, only, included a portion of cellular substance. Pressure with the finger on the zygoma, never for an instant, restrains the bleeding. How then can a ligature do good ? When the temporal artery is intentionally opened, for the purpose of procuring blood, it is, generally, the anterior super- ficial artery which is chosen, and it is punctured, as it is run- ning parallel to the outer angular process of the frontal bone, and not quite two fingers’ breadth behind its edge. But any distinct branch, felt pulsating, may be taken, and the spot and tract being ascertained by the finger, the eye is to be kept steadily on it, and the lancet introduced, as in vene- section, so as to puncture the artery, and make an wound in the integuments, of from a sixth, to a fourth, of an inch long. Should the artery have been missed, the lancet going by its side, it is to be introduced, again, into the wound, grazing its bottom, more or less obliquely, across the tract of the vessel, but not deeper than the front of the vessel. It is known to be opened by the blood springing. When the desired quan- tity is obtained, some, cut across the vessel, to make it retract, or, after doing this, apply a ligature; others, divide the ves- sel with so firm a stroke, as fairly to open a deeper branch,