419 natural direction, would touch the hollow of the sacrum,about two inches above the end of the coccyx. If the handle of the stall’ be depressed, we render' the gland more prominent. In the erect posture, it slopes a little upward. If the bladder be inflated, its under part goes more directly backward in the erect posture. The gland does the same, and is brought about a quarter of an inch nearer the sacrum. The urethra, therefore, in this state, is more straight. The apex of the gland (the subject being supine) is about five-eighths of an inch from the margin of the pubic ligament. Its base is an inch and five-eighths. Its surface is about an inch deep, from the face of the ramus. The relation to the anus varies a little, as that orifice is more or less sunk, &c. Usually, the urethral extremity of the gland is fully an inch-from the anus. The upper margin is not higher by the whole length of the gland, for it goes obliquely back- ward. When the bladder is fully, but not over, distended, it is ovoid in its shape. The long axis, from the fundus down- ward, is about five inches and a half. It is about four and a half broad, and four deep. The gland and urethra are not attached to the axis, but before it, at the front of the under part of the bladder, which expands behind them into the sacrum. This portion is called the bas fond, and it may extend for two inches and a half behind the gland. The bladder distends unequally, for the greatest difference in size is at the bas fond and the fundus. The first goes more back- ward than upward. The upper part is more than doubled in height, and the middle portion not quite doubled. In this distended state of the bladder, the peritonaeum goes off* from it to the abdominal muscles, about two inches above the pubis. Behind, the peritonaeum passes from the bladder to the face of the rectum, at from five to seven- eighths of an inch above, or behind, the gland. But, at the sides of the rectum, the peritonaeum passes off higher, so that there is a cul de sac formed, about an inch and a half broad, and not quite so deep. Into this, intestine may descend, and become impacted; or, descending lower, a perinaeal hernia