57 the muscular fibres extend, and to which they inseparably adhere. This, which may be called the platysmal fascia, is divisible into two portions. The one, merely covers the neck, and is the substratum on which the muscular fibres spread, and may therefore be said to form one coat with them. But there is this difference, namely, that when strongly marked, the superficial veins are found to lie between the muscular fibres and substratum, so as to appear involved in the latter; but, when less distinct, the united sheet seems to go over the veins. The same holds true with regard to the most of the cutaneous nerves, though many of the supra-clavicular nerves are below the united coat. The other portion, is part of the same, but consists of prolongations or expansions from this external sheet, passing deeper under the muscles, and over the nerves and vessels, and lost in a deeper fascia belonging to the parts below. Third, This deeper fascia is more complex, and may be traced from different points, according to the choice of the examinator. For instance, we may say that it proceeds from the depressor labii inferioris, depressor anguli oris and masse- ter; from the jaw, both blade and ramus; and even witliin, from the pterygoid muscle, and goes down as a deep fascia over, and also around, the muscles and glands, particularly those between the jaw and os hyoides. Or, if we trace it upwards, we should say that it was inserted into the border of the jaw-bone, from the chin up to very near the condyle, and thence was continued on the muscles, both external and internal, such as the masseter and pterygoideus. It may, for distinction, be called the myloid fascia. Fourth, An expansion of this myloid fascia goes off from the ramus and angle of the jaw, back to the styloid process. Or, we may say that a sheet of fascia from that process goes to be implanted into the jaw. It is so distinct and important that, although it may be traced as continuous with the former, I would distinguish it as the styloid expansion. It forms a sheet more or less distinct, and strong, connected, behind, to the point, and greatest part, of the styloid process, part of the mastoid process, and top of the mastoid muscle.