4C4 times an inch more, and is generally most perceptible when sitting. The foot is turned inward, and the knee drawn inward, and a little advanced on the other; but, when ljung on the sound side, it may be behind the other one; the great toe rests on the instep of the other foot. No force, short of that which reduces the dislocation, can elongate the limb, nor can the toes be turned out as usual, nor the thigh abducted. If thin, the head of the bone can be felt, and even seen, forming a tumour in its new situation. If not reduced, the head of the bone is altered in its shape, and the neck shortened by absoi’ption, a new joint is formed, some- times a distinct bony socket, and the limb rendered still shorter. The acetabulum, at the same time, becomes shal- lower, and its cavity fills up with ligamentous substance. Some, can walk with a staff in a few weeks, although the bone be still displaced, but others, cannot do without a crutch for years, if ever. The manipulation in reduction, consists in fixing the pelvis, and extending the thigh, by means of pulleys, in a direction which wdll draw the head toward the acetabulum—namely, downward, and forward, and inward. When the head approaches the acetabulum, we should gently rotate the knee outward, which rolls the bone into the socket, and this is farther assisted by drawing or pressing the upper part of the thigh in the proper direction. This last, of itself, might do more harm than good, by pressing the head against the ilium, or jamming it against the bulging part of the acetabulum. Adduction not only relaxes some of the muscles, but also the band of capsule crossing the cavity. If we do not succeed by this process, it may be useful, whilst we keep up extension, to abduct the thigh a little, at the same time that we rotate outward. There are instances where moderate rotation inwai’ds, has thrown the bone into the socket. In dislocation into the notch, the head of the bone may pass either by the upper margin of the pyriformis, or be- tween its lower margin and the gemellus superior, or even between this latter and the tendon of the obturator internus ; but it always rests on the pyriformis. The same set of