398 legumentsand fascia, covering the gluteus, tensor, &c. Tliis branch sometimes comes exclusively from the first lumbar nerve, and sometimes from the external cutaneous. The First Lumbar nerve generally divides speedily into two branches. The one, passes through the substance of the psoas, then downward and forward, on the inside of the muscles, to the back part of the crest. It gets between the transversalis and internal oblique, pretty far back, and runs about half an inch above the crest, to be distributed to these muscles. It also often sends a cutaneous branch over the crest. It is called the ilio-lumbar nerve. The other, named the ilio-pubal, runs also to the crest, but keeps along its inside more or less close to it. Before it reach midway along the crest, it is hid under the iliac fascia, and presently gets between the transversalis and internal oblique, to which it gives branches, and the latter of which it pierces about two inches and a half forward from the spine of the ilium, and, covered by the ten- don of the external oblique, it proceeds on the surface of the internal, to meet the upper margin of the cord or round liga- ment, along which it proceeds, and issues out of the inferior aperture, following nearly the course of the superior pillar of the aperture, to be distributed on the pubis, scrotum or labium. Sometimes, a branch of the genito-crural unites near the canal with the nerve just described, and forms a common trunk. The ilio-pubal also sometimes runs more inward on the surface of the ilium, piercing the muscles near the spine, a little above Poupart’s ligament. The second, third, and fourth Lumbar nei'ves, are more decidedly connected by interunion or interlacement, forming the lumbar plexus, whilst the fifth nerve goes to join the sacral plexus. To see the plexus, the situation of which is easily understood from the particular nerves which form it, or indeed the trunks of the nerve, the psoas muscle must be destroyed, for, though some nerves pass through it, more or less obliquely, and some under it, yet, we cannot other- wise see the trunks of the nerves themselves. Whilst a plexus is formed, we still can trace individual branches, more particularly to certain trunks. ^The second lumbar gives