6 opposite sides are united by a firm ligamentous intermedium, which, at the upper part, is so strong and defined, as to be called the cervical ligament. From this, the ligamentum nuchffi, there goes off on each side an aponeurosis, which immediately splits into two layers, one going on the outer, the other on »the inner surface of the muscle, which is thus interposed between them, as if it were in a sheath. The outer layer is connected with the subcutaneous cellular substance, and twigs of nerves run on it both upward and downward to get to the skin. The inner is connected by loose cellular mem- brane to the deeper layer of muscles. Pretty large branches of nerves, both from the accessory, and cervical plexus, ramify on it before entering the muscle, and numerous small glands, especially near the clavicle and shoulder, are to be met with, which often enlarge, and form tumours, pi’oductive, from their effect on the nerves, of shooting pain, or feeling of weight, or of burning heat. The upper extremity of the muscle is attached to the lower part of the protuberance on the middle line of the occiput, and, from that, forward along the trans- verse ridge,'to very near the posterior margin of the sterno- mastoid muscle. It becomes broader and thicker as it descends toward the' clavicle and scapula, and is strong and fleshy near the acromion and spine of the scapula, but thinner along the clavicle, and at the side of the neck. It is inserted into the clavicle till about three inches from its sternal end. Its ante- rior margin is united to the posterior one of the sterno-mastoid, sometimes by a very narrow line of fascia, sometimes by one half an inch broad in the course of the neck, and expanding near the clavicle. There, the muscles are generally more sepa- rated, and the intervening space occupied by platysma-myoides and the cervical fascia. In some cases, the trapezius does not come farther forward than two inches and a half, or even one and a half from the acromion, and the interval between it and the mastoid muscle, there, is nearly an inch and three quarters. In others, it is inserted for four inches from tlie acromion; the two muscles are more strongly connected at the lower than the upper part. On clearing away the cellular and fascial connexion between the muscles, wccsee, at the upper part, the