314 cular ligament, extends from the insertion of the deltoid muscle, to the outer condyle, along the margin of the triceps, and a thin layer dips between it and the supinator, and higher, between it and the brachieus. The supinator rises from this, as well as from the bone. The front of the arm, is formed, near the shoulder, by the deltoid and pectoralis major, then, at its upper part, by the biceps and coraco-brachialis, lower, by the biceps and brach- ieus internus, which begins where the coraco-brachialis ends. On each side, the strict front, is flanked by the triceps. The median line of the biceps, coiTesponds to one, drawn from the coracoid process to the elbow joint, at the inner margin of its tendon. The inner margin, up to about two inches and a half of the fold of the axilla, is found by a line, from the inside of the tendon, to the inside of the shaft, close by the anterior fold of the axilla; but this line, higher than the spot mentioned, traverses not the biceps, but the coraco- bi’achialis. This margin, to near the joint, and consequently the tract of the artery, may also be found in slender subjects, if the fore-arm do not incline, naturally, much outward, by extending a thread, directly down, from the inside of the arm, just behind the tendon of the pectoral muscle, to the inside, or rather the back, of the pisiform bone, the hand being supine; or, to the inside of the fore-arm, about midway, between the elbow and wrist, if the arm incline much out- wardly, and, also, in strongly muscular subjects, in whom the belly of the muscle may be above two inches broad, whereas, in the former, or emaciated, all the muscles are small, and the biceps not an inch and a half broad. The narrower the muscle, the nearer the joint will the line I'epresent its margin. In strong men, the muscle tapers much, at fully an inch and a half above the joint. The whole arm is covered by a subcutaneous fascia, gen- erally divisible into two layers, the innermost, the thinnest and most cellular. Between these, the superficial veins lie, and are more or less fixed, according as this fascia is more or less cellular. A deep aponeurosis adherent to the muscles, and also to the intermuscular ligaments, invests the arm be-