keep behind the bulb altogether, and take care not to come so far forward with the knife as to cut the triangular fascia and the bulbous artery, far less the bulb itself. The opening being made in the levator, the staff is now better felt. If it be curved, it is to be kept steady, and the urethra being opened, a straight director is to be introduced, on which, after the staff is withdrawn, a probe-pointed bistoury is to be run forward. But it is better to use a straight staff; and, in this case, the groove is turned toward the anus, till the cutting instrument be introduced, when it is turned to aside. With regard to the opening of the urethra, 1 have to advise, that the staff be kept steady, whilst the levator is opened by the knife, guided by the finger. The scalpel is then to be intro- duced through the opening, and guided, by the finger, to the staff. Its point is to be sunk into the groove, or the tract may be pricked gently, to be sure that the point is on the groove. When inserted, the membranous portion covered by the membranous fibre, is to be divided freely; but it is to be remembered, that the tract is only about three-eighths of an inch long. The nail of the finger is to be inserted into the opening, and, on it, the bistoury, or scalpel, is to be intro- duced, rubbing the probe point a little backward and for- ward at first, to be sure that it is on the bare groove. It is then, the staff, or director, being held steady by the left hand, to be run bn with the blade to one side, so as to divide the gland. It requires to be carried pretty deep, for the gland is at least an inch long. The incision, in a lateral direction through the gland, must be from half to five-eighths of an inch—that being the usual semidiameter of the gland. We may cut more than this in the tract of the membranous portion of the urethra and commencement of the gland, so as thus to divide laterally, as I expressed above, a little more of the levator. But we ought not to cut the gland, except at the urethral end, so freely as to fully divide the fascia covering it. If we do so, we may cut the veins—an accident specially to be avoided in old men. The veins run chiefly by the upper margin of the side of the gland ; others run at the under margin ; whilst the very side is usually free. We