301 the largest, are toward the axilla, particularly, within the fold of the pectoral muscle. This should, therefore, be either the first, or the last, part to be divided, after dissecting off the skin. It is generally better to let it be the last. We, after making an elliptical incision, (one end of which, if the state of the integuments permit, is toward the axilla,) includ- ing the nipple, and every suspicious spot of skin, turn off the skin, to some way, beyond the margin of the gland. If any arteries spring, in this stage, as usually happens, the assistant either stops the bleeding with his finger, or the operator may stop and take them up. The breast being quite exposed, is to be detached from above, downward, and within, outward, to the axilla, at the fold of the pectoral mus- cle, where, if there be no disease in the armpit, the sound fascia and cellular substance, &c., are to be cut across and the vessels tied. A recumbent position is the best for the patient. Leaving other particulars to writers on the operation, I only remark, that even where there is only a portion of the breast diseased, and that portion apparently sound, it is best to remove the whole gland. The tumour may, indeed, not be one of the gland, but formed in the adjacent cellular sub- stance, and could it be certainly known that it were so, in any particular case, the mere removal of that would be war- rantable. But, usually, however moveable the tumour is, it is found, in operating, to be a part of the gland, and cannot be removed, without cutting into the adjacent glandular substance. This rarely succeeds, for the disease generally returns. It is little less painful than removing the whole, and what is left is useless. But this rule, evidently, does not apply to subcutaneous tumours. The structure of the breast, will farther point out the dif- ferent kinds of abscess. We may have subcutaneous abscess, in one of the large cells, between the corium and mammary fascia. We may have abscess forming near the nipple, round one of the sinuses; or deeper, and, more externally, along and around some of the ducts, in the cellular substance, connect- ing the acini; or the glandular substance itself, ducts and acini, and their intermedium may be inflamed, and, perhaps.