249 face of the internal pterygoid, so as to get, presently, on the outer surface of the former. It then proceeds within the temporal muscle, obliquely, upward and forward, deeply, toward the spheno-maxillary fissure. When the mouth is shut, the artery, in this course, namely, running on the ex- ternal pterygoid, merely skirts the margin of the sigmoid notch, so that it is not seen. But if not pulled down by its attachments, it may, when the mouth is widely opened, be a little higher, and consequently wounded there, by a transverse stab. More frequently, it does not, so soon, turn on the sur- face of the pterygoideus externus, but proceeds on its inner surface, between it and the internal pterygoideus, into the spheno-maxillary fossa, turning over the muscle, near its ori- gin, or passing through two portions of it, to the back of the antrum. Sometimes, in the same subject, it runs differently on opposite sides. At the lower margin of the pterygoideus externus, it, according to its course, either crosses the outside of the dental and gustatory nerves, or passes between them, the dental running on its outside. Whilst traversing the neck of the bone, or in front of the root of the condyle, and before turning over, on the pterygoideus externus, it gives off two branches, of importance to surgeons. One goes almost straight up, or a little inward, to the fora- men spinale, which is situated to the inside of the very root of the zygomatic process, or of the front of the articulating fossa. It is as large as a crow quill, and from its origin, to its entrance into the skull, is about three-eighths of an inch long, skirting, as it ascends, the posterior margin of the pterygoideus internus. It is the middle arteiy of the dura mater. It is not in the way of being wounded, exterior to the cranium, unless, in cases where there is still more sex'ious complication; but, it is often torn, or ruptured, within the skull, and then compression is pi'oduced, fatal, if not removed. The other, or dental branch, comes off from the lower sur- face of the artery, nearly opposite the media, but some- times from the deep temporal, and goes obliquely downward and forward, between the lower jaw, and internal pterygoid