425 in the manner described. Now, when the point of the catheter arrives here, it meets with a firmer texture than heretofore. It may pass directly along the canal, through the aperture in the £ascia, or it may be caught by the margin of the aperture, and press the canal down, that is, carry it on its point over the rim. This is more likely to happen, from the urethra being, if any thing, rather wider, just before the aperture, so that a kind of small sinus exists. If force be employed, the under surface of the canal is depressed, and carried beneath the rim, and, if the instrument be still pressed on, the canal is ruptured just between the rim and the origin of the bulb. Its point may be driven into the bulb, but this is rare. Usually, it is carried either by the side, or commonly by the under surface of the membranous portion, to a greater or less extent, between it and the rectum. It is rare, indeed, for the urethra to be ruptured at the upper surface. If the point be elevated, and force used, no doubt this may be accomplished, and the instrument would rupture also the triangular fascia, and get forward between the anterior ligaments of the bladder. That there is a natural obstruction, as it is called, at this point, is proved on the dead subject. Let a sound be intro- duced, till it meet with an obstruction, and then dissect the parts, and mark the cause. I do not, when I use the term natural obstruction, mean, that, in every case, the same degree of catching exists. Far from it; for, in some, the fascia is more lax, and the connexion with the urethra less distinct, so that the canal cannot be turned over the rim. In general, if we introduce a sound into the bladder, and, in withdrawing it, keep it, or its point, a little up against the upper surface of the canal, we are sensible, when the point passes over the rim there, that it has slipped over a resisting band. From this account, we conclude—1st, That a catheter so large as to occupy the urethra, ought to pass more easily than a small one, which is more likely to have its point caught by the yielding urethra at the rim. 2d, That, if we meet with an obstruction, that is not to be overcome by force, but