429 rendered slower, by the absence of irritation. If it be difficult, and also give much pain, we introduce it only as often as is necessary, to avoid a greater evil. In performing the operation of lithotomy, we have two stages to consider. The first includes the steps necessary to reach the membranous part of the urethra; the second, those required for getting into the bladder. The staff should be as large as the urethi-a will easily admit, and is better straight than curved. The groove should be deep. It is per- fectly useless in the first incision; and all that is to be at- tended to is, to have it kept in the bladder. The external incision should begin near the root of the scrotum, and pass about midway between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium, going just beyond the posterior margin of the anus. This, in the perinaeum, is not deep, for it only exposes the perinaeal fascia, or superficial muscles. Toward the anus, it is deeper, entering into the angular pit of fat. Veins and subcutaneous arteries and nerves are divided ; and, behind, branches of the external haemorrhoidal artery and nerve are cut. The second incision goes deeper, but much less so above than below. Above, we divide between the accelerator and erector, recollecting the breadth of the urethra. If we go too near the median line, we cut the bulb; and, if too near the ramus, we cut the crus. The first is the most frequent error. The bulb, covered with the accelerator, extends to about half an inch out from the median line, or raphe. The erector runs farther back than the accelerator, but they are in contact all the course of the latter, and, as I have already described, the space, which would otherwise be vacant, between its rounded end and the erector, is filled by the transversalis perinei, and sometimes a prolongation back- ward and outward, toward the tuberosity, of the accelerator. This strip, when it exists, and the transversalis, must always be divided; but we may separate the accelerator itself from the erector without cutting either. We do not require to detach them far up, or, at the most, beyond the proper extent of the bulb itself. This descends more or less, in different instances, from the point where the membranous