127 inside of die jaw-blade, and parallel to it, covering the sub- mental artery, and going over the upper part of the subni ax- illary gland, between it and a conglobate gland, which lies closer to the jaw-blade than the subinaxillary. It here joins the facial vein, which is covered by this gland, or passes between two glands. When it goes to the thyroid, it of course inclines a little more downward. The ranular vein commences at the point and side of the tongue, and runs along its inferior surface near to the fraenum, where it is seen through the raucous membrane, and at this part it was at one time the practice to puncture tlie vessel when it was desirable to obtain blood from the mouth. If done cautiously in adults, so as to avoid the artery, there may be still an advantage in following the advice. The vein hes close by the outside of the artery, but that is here a little deeper or higher than the vein. From this part, the vein passes backward and downward on the surface of the hyo-glossus to the top of the horn of the os hj^oides, and thence either passes on, to enter the internal jugular, or joins the facial, thyroid, lingual, or pharyngeal vein at the horn. In its course, it communicates with the lingual vein, and is either joined by a branch from the submaxillary gland, or sends one back to that gland to meet the submental there. This runs more horizontal, and more directly backwaixl or forward than the ranular vein, and is connected with it about half way between the fraenum and the gland. The tract of the ranular vein is lower than that of the subinaxillary duct. The lingual veins, are generally venae comites to the artery, one lying higher, another lower than that vessel, but all the three connected to one another. Their course is therefore ascertained by that of the artery. They often join the facial below the os hyoides, and also below the origin of the thyroid artery: the vein or veins pass over that artery. The pharyngeal veins, which are generally two or more in number, end either in the jugular or thyroid, or often in a common trunk with the lingual. They come down from the upper and back part of the pharynx, along the back of the side of that tube. The largest vein lies on the inside of, and