36 is often oblique and not fairly at the side of the trachea till thi*ee quarters of an inch above the bone. We may indeed avoid many hazards and inconveniences, and find the trachea more superficial, by going nearer the cricoid cartilage; for, an inch and a half above the sternum, it is only about half an inch deep from the surface of the skin. But the front or cross portion of the thyroid gland rests on the upper part of the trachea. It may be a half, or nearly a whole inch broad, and the lobes, at the sides, extend lower. The space between the cross portion of gland and sternum varies, and generally there is abundant space for opening the trachea. I have, however, seen the gland reach to half an inch above the ster- num ; often there is only an interval of an inch in short- necked males. In females there may be fully two inches, or, if the head be bent back, half an inch more. Still, we require to go deep, and if we consider the effect of a lodgment of pus in such an wound here, and the difficulty of procuring a free passage for the air, we shall be led to inquire whether an opening in the crico-thyroid space have not greater advan- tages. The membrane is, in a subject rather fat, only about three-tenths of an inch deep, and can be easily exposed by a ' transverse incision, made in the skin, cellular substance, and fascia, in front of the neck. This exposes the crico-thyi-oid muscles, which do not meet in the middle line, but are, at the margin of the thyroid cartilage, a quarter, or sometimes half an inch separate. Near the cricoid cartilage, there is scarcely an eighth of an inch between them. The length of the space itself, may vary from three quarters of an inch to an inch, and its greatest breadth in front, when relaxed, is about a quarter; but it is less toward the sides. By dividing this freely, we may have an aperture quite equal to that of the rima. But this cannot be done without dividing part of the crico-thyroid muscle, for it is doubtful if even cutting out all the intervening membrane would make an aperture equal to the rima. The division of the muscle to such an extent as might be necessary could be attended with no apparent inconveni- ence ; but a very large branch of the superior thyroid artery often runs down to the gland, just by the anterior margin of