532 over the artery, but we do not thereby expose the tendons, (page 506,) for they are covered by their annular ligament. We ought not to see them, in the wound, behind or below the ankle. The artery is lodged in dense cellular substance, with the veins obliquely before, and behind it. Farther back, though we have no occasion to display it, is the nerve, which in a side view, covers the tendon of the flexor pollicis. A little lower than this, the nerve divides into its two plan- tar branches, one is behind the artery, another more covered by it. We would not, if we had our choice, tie the artery so near the articulation, not merely on account of the risk of articular inflammation, but also of subsequent stiffness, for a time, from inflammation of the sheaths of the tendons. An inch and a half above the end of the malleolus, is a very good spot. In puncture of the plantar artery, it would be both foolish and severe, to search for the vessel in the sole, for it is three quarters of an inch deep, from the aponeurosis, and cannot be exposed without great injury to the tendons,’ &c. It is better to tie the tibial artery above the ankle. It may be wounded by a puncture from the dorsum. At the upper part of the leg, the peronea may be got at, by cutting in the sulcus, between the gastrocnemius and per- onei muscles. Raising the former, the artery may be found on the margin of the flexor pollicis, with the tibial nerve to its inner side. But, as it presently is covered by the muscle, we cannot thus expose it lower; for it is out of the question to raise and draw outward the muscle. At, and below, the top of the middle third, we must cut close by the back of the fibula, behind the peroneus, and then detach the flexor polli- cis from, its connexion with the bone. By introducing the finger close by the bone, and sinking its point down at the tibial margin, to the interosseous ligament, we must touch the artery. It is not easy however to insulate it, and there- fore the needle must be passed cautiously round its tract, including none of the ligament. Or, the artery may be divided, and its orifice being seen, it can be taken up. It is