242 Tlie looser muscles, all tend toward the orbicularis oris, Fitst, we have in the upper division, and most outward, the Zygomaticus major, running from the malar bone, at the zygomatic suture, to the angle of the mouth, traversing, ob- liquely, the upper and anterior part of the masseter. Its course is marked by a line, drawn from about an inch forward, from the root of the zygomatic pi'ocess, to the angle of the mouth. Second, the Zygomaticus minor rises lower, and more forward, is shorter than the major, runs higher, divaricating a little from it. Both, particularly the minor, cross the Le- vator anguli oris, near their insertion into the mouth, and both, at the upper part, are covered by the orbicularis palpe- brarum. Going from the nose, another sheet, formed by the following muscles, may be traced. At the nose, the Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, descends, almost perpendicularly. Adjoining it, separated by a line of cellular substance, and rising a very little below the orbit, is the Levator proprius. Thetwo, including thelineof cellularsubstance, are, altogether, about an inch and a quarter broad. Between the levator proprius and zygomaticus major, covered, in part, by the minor, is a kind of hollow, filled with fat and cellular sub- stance, traversed by the angular vein. On cleaning out this, we see, rising under the infra-orbitar foramen, in the canine fossa, consequently deeper than the other, the Levator anguli oris. It is nearly half an inch broad. Its origin cfinnot be seen, till the levator proprius be lifted, or drawn forward. It runs a little outward, to the angle of the mouth, whilst the other, runs straight down. Below the mouth, we find a similar radiation of muscles to the orbicularis. The Depressor anguli oris, rises just in front of the insertion of the masseter, but is not in contact with it, the facial artery passing between them. The anterior margin of the muscle, rises by a peak, from the side of the jaw, whei’e the square front of the chin ends, under the canine tooth, and the base of the muscle, ex- tends back, for about two inches. Its posterior margin, is straight, and runs obliquely upward and forward to the angle qf the mouth, but the anterior, forms a curve, the concavity directed forward. The shape, therefore, is not triangular.