22 rent nerve at its inferior extremity. It is every where covered by muscles, as we shall presently see. In the foetus and child, the lower part of the trachea is covered by another gland prolonged from the mediastinum within the sternum. This is the thymus, which also consists of two lobes, with projections called horns, which extend as high as the thyroid gland. Within the sternum, it lies between it, and the arch of the aorta with its branches, but particularly the left subclavian vein. It at one time is so large, compared to the contracted lungs, that it equals the bulk of one of them; but it does not aftei’wards retain the proportion. It does not, however, remain stationary, but continues to grow a little for the first year after birth, and sometimes rather increases than diminishes during the second. In a child of a year old, it extends up to half an inch above the sternum. It presently begins to waste, and fastest in a direction from below upward. In the course of ten or twelve years, it is completely absorbed, and its situation occupied by cellular substance and fat. In scrofulous children it may swell, and is often combined with a similar affection of the mesenteric glands. In older children, it may swell so much as to disturb the functions of the trachea and circidation, and yet not so much as to be easily felt through the fascia and muscular covering. In extreme cases, oftener met with in infancy than afterwards, both the breathing and swallowing may be affected, and the tumour may be felt. Iodine should be tried, and small blisters may be applied; but any operation for extirpating the gland would probably be fatal, either by the production of thoracic inflammation, or the lodgment of pus in the mediastinum. In making our diag- nosis, it must be remembered, that small lymphatic glands lie at the lower part of the neck, much in the situation which would be occupied by an enlarged thymus gland. A^Tien these swell, they may produce difficulty in breathing, &c.; but they seldom do so, as they enlarge upwardly and out- wardly. They are at first moveable and rounded. Both they and the enlarged thymus may receive communicated motion from the great arteries. The distance between the top of the sternum and the ujiper