3.52 aneurism, and, unlike the varix, requires an operation. No doubt, instances have occurred, where regular and judicious pressure, has restrained the growth, perhaps even effected a cure; but I believe, that most cases, whicli seemed to do well, without an operation, were really, merely, cases of aneurismal varix, with the throbbing thickening, over and around the artery, which I have just mentioned. Instead of being small varicose anem’isms, they were of a very different description. When the aneurismal sac is at all considerable, it is mucli more tense than the varix, for it is bound down by the fascia, and, sometimes, so firmly by the expansion from the biceps, that it is small at that part, and projects more under the thinner fascia, which is higher. I have, in the first volume, given reasons why we should rather tie the artery, where it has been wounded, than high in the arm. But if we do tie above the sac, we should make such moderate pressure on the dilated vein, as will obviate, as far as can be done, the effect of retrograde circulation, or the blood passing still from the sac into the vein, thus preventing coagulation. When the artery alone is wounded, and the blood extensively diffused up the arm, it is much better to enlarge the wound, and tie the artery above and below the puncture, than to apply the ligature hish. But, in circumscribed false aneurism, there is no occasion to depart from the general rule of tying below the origin of the profunda inferior. On removing the skin of the fore-arm, w'e see, in front, covered by aponeurosis, the superficial layer of muscles, the outer margin of which, is formed by the supinator longus, skirted, or rather supported, behind, by the extensores radiales, the brevior seen, on tiu’ning off the longior; the inner, by the flexor ulnaris. Near the joint, or at the upper part of the fore-arm, the supinator forms about a third of the front. It soon meets the pronator, nearly in the median line, and, in the angle between them, is lodged the biceps tendon and radial artery. Passing inward, still at the upper and thick part of the fore-arm, we have, as mentioned, the pronator, then, the flexor radialis, with the tapering belly of the palmaris, covering its inner part, then, we have pait of the