138 rior passes forward, winding close by the articulation of the atlas and dentata, between their transverse processes, at the outer margin of the vertebral artery, and deeply covered by the inter- transversalis muscle, and the head of the scalenus and levator scapula*. By pressing these two backward, and the rectus major forward, with the handle of the knife, it is seen issuing, and immediately subdivides into two portions; one ascends, and forms the arch already noticed, and also communicates with the upper cervical ganglion; another descends over the trans- verse process of the dentata, and forms an arch with the second cervical nerve, as is done above with the suboccipital, whilst a third, after giving off twigs to connect it with the superior ganglion, runs down a little way behind the outer margin of the jugular vein, then turns over it, and becoming more super- ficial, inclines about the middle of the neck, a little forward, to form a loop with the descendens noni on the face of the vessel. This nerve has been called the cervicalis descendens. It sometimes arises from the second cervical, sometimes both from it and the first, and may form a higher and a lower loop with the descendens noni, from which many muscular branches go off towards the front of the throat. In the horse this nerve is very large, and indeed is the trunk of the anterior branch. It receives a large ramus from the upper sympathetic gang- lion, and then the united nerve runs forward toward the thy- roid cartilage, and thence under the sterno-hyoideus and thy- roideus muscles, down on the trachea, all the way to the stei'num, supplying the muscles as it goes along. But the posterior division of the first cervical nerve, is the largest and most important. It runs first a little forward between the atlas and dentata, and then divides into two branches; one of which runs downward among the deep muscles. The other is the Great Occipital nerve. This, which is as large as a whip cord, runs first a very little downward, then turns up over the obliquus inferior, covered by the complexus. It either passes through a slit in this, or perforates it about three- quarters of an inch below its insertion, and about an eighth of an inch to the outside of the median line or spinous pro- cess. It is for a little way covered by the splenius, then only