107 than the size of a crow-quill, often much larger, aftei* this winds over the internal carotid, then crosses the jugular vein, and the two nerves connected with it there, namely, the eighth and accessory, and passes backward between the trans- verse process of the atlas and mastoid process, traversing the rectus lateralis, and then surmounting the upper margin of the superior obliquus. In this course, it is covered by the sterno- mastoid, trapezius, trachelo-mastoideus, splenius, and. corn- plexus. It then gets out between the sterno-mastoid and tra- pezius, and becomes subcutaneous. As it emerges, the occipital vein dips in a little higher than the artery, whilst the little occipital nerve turns up over them both, or, it passes out, with the great occipital, through the trapezius. Before it becomes superficial, and in its deep tract, it gives off branches, which anastomose with the vertebral, and others, which descend on the multifidus spinae, to anastomose with the cervicalis pro- funda. Others, more superficial, descend on the splenius to join the cervicalis superficialis. It is, whilst ramifying on the occiput, which it does freely, and in all directions, upwards and laterally, joining the temporal and posterior auris, that it is most apt to be injured, and often much blood is lost by wounding the scalp. Effusion of blood into the cellular sub- stance, or under the scalp, forming what is called a false aneurism, generally is removed spontaneously, or by mode- rate pressure, and seldom requires, in a healthy person, an operation. But, when there is an open wound, the vessel often bleeds much, and repeatedly, and,' therefore, ought either to be tied at first, or obliterated by pressure, with a compress and roller. In a recent wound, the blood should be cleared away, and the arteiy tied, after transfixing it with the tena- culum introduced parallel to the surface of the scalp, so as not to include the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, which not only causes pain, but often erysipelas of the head. In those cases where pressure has not been efficiently applied, and repeated haemorrhage takes place, the mouth of the vessel often opens into, or is connected with, a lymphatic expansion, like a segment of a cyst; and till this be cut or rubbed away,