properly described. The fibres of the innermost, extending half way down the ramus, run downward and forward, and those of the outermost and largest layer, go the whole way, some, perpendicularly, others, downward and back- ward. It is covered by an aponeurosis, and the parotid gland rests on its posterior part. The anterior margin which overhangs the buccinator, is connected to it, mei'ely, by fat and cellular substance, over which a thin continuation of fascia is spread. As far as the temporal muscle descends below the zygoma, it is, in a manner, blended with the inner surface of the masseter. In considerino; the action of these two mus- cles, we must also recollect the pterygoideus internus, which rising, muscular and tendinous, from the whole fossa, between the pterygoid processes, bounds the outer margin of the poste- rior opening of the nostril, and is directed downward and a little backward, but not meeting, exactly, the posterior margin of the jaw, till fully an inch above the angle. Higher, the bone where the muscle does not extend, is covered or lined with cellular substance, in which we see the internal maxil- lary artery crossing. The external pterygoideus, is large and fleshy, rising from the process, even to its root. Hence, the upper fibres run more obliquely than the lower, and can not only draw the condyle forward, but a little upward. The superior fibres go to the capsule and front of the inter-articular cartilage. In its course, and till near the condyle, it is bounded by the temporal muscle. The articulating cavity, is, in the recent subject, about three quarters of an inch long, and three-eighths deep. The inter-articular cartilage is thickest behind, and, moving along with the condyle, and also pulled forward by the pterygoideus externus, when the jaw is opened, it, from being thickest behind, comes to produce the same effect, as if the condyle were raised there, and, consequently makes it less ready to pass over the front of the cavity. The fore part, in the motion, is slightly turned down, over the face of the condyle, deepening thus, as long as the parts are entire, or the cartilage connected to the temporal bone, the articulation in front. If the jaw