There is, however, some variety in the relation of these parts. We may see, first, or most backward, the ulnar nerve, then, the internal cutaneous, both lying on, and nearly hiding, the great vein. Tlien, more outward, the median, on the artery; then, drawing the arteiy back on the tendon, we see, between it and the coraco-brachialis, a vena comes; the external cutaneous nerve, has, by this time, got into the muscle. In other cases, we see, first in order, the ulnar, then, farther forward, the vein, then, the internal cutaneous, whilst the median is not seen, till we pull down, or back, the internal cutaneous; or, we see, first, the vein with the internal cutaneous nerve on its face. Lifting up the vein, we see between it and the tendon, the cutaneous minor; the ulnar, covering the spiral, is seen on drawing the vein downward. Higher, or more forward, is the artery, and still more forward the median nerve. The portion of artery here, is more accessible, than any which is higher, though it be quite hid or covered. It is, except in extensive wounds, the highest spot which we ought ever to think of tying, the operation above the clavicle, being, in all other cases, preferable. To expose the artery here, the arm must be raised, and an incision made from the middle, or hollow, of the axilla, down, between its folds, for a little way, along the inside of the top of the ai-m. The cellular substance, over the vessels, being completely divided, we see the vein covered, as all the other parts are, by a layer of fascia. This being slit, so as to expose the vein, that is to be drawn downward, or backward, along the tendon. We then must examine the relation of the nerves to the artery, and proceed accordingly. In many cases, we expose it best, by drawing downward, or backward, the vein and ulnar nerve, and, the median and in- ternal cutaneous forward. The spiral does not require to be touched, lying behind the artery, or covei’ed by it. In others, we may expose it, by drawing all the nerves forward, whilst the vein is kept back. Or, we draw back, the spiral and ulnar, and the rest forward. Or, we, on inspecting the relation of parts, find it necessary to draw the brachial or axillary vein, internal cutaneous, ulnar, and spiral nerves, back, and the