164. sometimes by that of the organs of digestion; often it is an attendant on the disease described p. 112. Fits of choking, or suffocation, may also be produced by the effect of swelled lymphatic glands on the recurrent nerve, or by enlargement of the thyroid gland. This may be the pi'oper place to make some remarks on the extirpation of this gland, for which purpose, I first of all refer to pages 20, 50, 64, 98, 122. The greatest number of cases of enlarged gland are of a strumous nature. The muscles relax, and also sepai’ate, so as to a^ow the gland to protrude at different parts, and then it is covered merely by the fascia and skin. So long as no inflammation takes place, and the coverings yield, there is little inconvenience in general, except from the weight or deformity, though sometimes both the breathing and swallowing are affected. When slow and partial inflammation takes place, then, matter forms in different parts, or I have known one large abscess produced. The treatment, here, is to be conducted on general principles, and, in cases of mere enlargement, without suppuration, iodine exhibited in the usual way, is likely to be useful. It is sometimes found to be assisted by the repeated application of small blisters. In many cases, not perceptible during life, we find, on dissection, the gland more solid, and a little larger than it ought to be. An operation is never perhaps necessary in the simple strumous swelling; but the nature of the tumour may change, and the gland acquire a size, dangerous, from its pressure, and still more so, from its effects on the constitution. It is perhaps not, strictly speaking, malignant in its nature, but it is incapable of being lessened, far less removed, by absorption. It wears out the strength by its mechanical effects, and, often, by the foiunation of matter, or other changes going on in the tumour itself, it affects the constitution. There is also a risk of other glands in the vicinity swelling, and of parts essential to life, becoming involved. In such cases, it comes to be a consideration how far it is necessary, in a tumour which is not stationary, to remove it. If we decide on the operation, and the thyroid gland alone be affected, we ought to arrange our external incisions, so that they may include those which we make, first