burst into either the trachea or chest, and the patient die suddenly. Such abscesses sometimes pulsate strongly. A complicated case, but one seldom difficult to recognise, occurs, when the aorta or innominata are enlarged, and the glands hard and swelled; there is a pulsating, irregular, or nodulated tumour produced. These glands may often be considerably enlarged, without being detected during life, as they have the muscles stretched over them. In children, the thymus gland may swell, but extirpation, although practicable on the dead, is too hazardous in its consequences to be attempted on the living subject. If we require, in the adult, to e?:tirpate a tumefied or diseased gland here, we must recollect the vascular tissue on the front of the trachea, and the situation of the great vessels, to all of which the tumour may be connected. Near the clavicle we often meet with many enlarged glands. These may interest the supra-clavicular nerves, but are more likely to be connected with the axillary plexus, and frequently produce pain or numbness in the arm. They project irregu- larly, or may be felt in the space between the trapezius and mastoid muscles, and sometimes extend a considerable way under them, particularly under the former. When under the mastoid muscle, they are not only undefined in their margin, but by pressing on the jugular vein, may produce some little enlargement of that vessel, or they may affect the phrenic nerve or par vagum. If they suppurate, they burst more readily between these muscles than elsewhere, but in general the abscess should be opened early, for it may extend into the axilla, or under the pectoral muscle, or may burst above the rib into the thorax. Such abscesses often pulsate, and have been mistaken for aneurism. If the gland be far back under the trapezius, it may end in an extended ab- scess, working its way to the most dependent, or the most superficial, part. Both the sub and supra-clavicular glands may swell from carcinoma of the breast. Any tumour seated above the clavicle, if it is to be extirpated, will require a recollection of the situation of the subclavian artery and vein, and axillary plexus, which will afterwards be pointed