112 to its end. The posterior are larger, and run down the posterior surface of the medulla, parallel to each other, and forming connexions with one another, and with the anterior arteries, which also communicate with the twigs from the vertebral artery, where the nerves pass out. Let us connect this arrangement of an arterial plexus, as it were, with the verte- bral sinus befoi'e, and meningeal vein behind, and we shall find the medulla spinalis so surrounded with vessels that we cannot be surprised, if disease should be frequent in this important organ. Any enlargement, permanent or temporary, of these vessels, or any excited action in them, or change of structure, may pi’oduce very protracted illness, with affections of the senses and functions. Ossification, for instance, of the basilai'y artery, I have known productive of headach, derangement of the digestion, symptoms of organic affection of the heart, general * dropsy, and mania, ending in fatal epilepsy. Can all this train of evil, so incongruous, arise, it may be said, from the disease of half an inch of the artery? Dissection confirms this opinion, and the fatal result is has- tened at last by serous effusion in the head. Even tem- porary fulness, or excitement of these vessels, or of the veins of the medulla spinalis, caused by menstrual affections, or disorder of the bowels, may produce all these evils. Often, the attack begins like hysteria, accompanied with croup, flushed face, and heaviness in the head, and rapid pulse; at other times it commences with weight over the eyes, pain in the scalp and neck, and slowness of the pulse. But in either case, if treated as hysteria, the disease proceeds to a great extent, and often palsy of all the parts below the head is the consequence, the pulse beats only 30 in the minute, the respiration is slow, and the patient feels as if a bar of iron lay on the chest, and, at last, with a mind quite sensible, dies, absolutely from the heart and lungs being unable to act. If partially recovered from, there is often a temporary delirium, and the patient is stibject to attacks of great weight or pain in the head, even as if melted lead were poured on the brain, tetanic spasm and coma; and these attacks, are often periodical, and preceded by general oederha and inor-