219 division of the fiftli pair. Its other cut end will be seen at the zygoma. On the masseter, we find the remains of the transversalis artery and vein, branches of the portio dura, and the remains of the duct. Just below the styloid process, between it and the margin of the digastric, appears the mouth of the divided external carotid, with accompanying veins. Second, going downward from the process, toward the neck, we see closely adhering to the process, and running in the same direction, the styloid muscles, then the digastric, and still lower, a sheet of fascia, covering vessels, but no bare ves- sel is seen. The gland, here, then, has been resting on the process, on the muscles, and on a layer of fatty cellular sub- stance and fascia. Removing the layer of fascia, and press- ing up a little the digastric, we see the external carotid in its way up to that part of the gland, where it enters, and where it had been divided, and if the facial come off, or run high, as it sometimes does, it is nearly parallel with the carotid, behind the angle of the jaw. Behind, and to the outside of the carotid, is the jugular, with the internal carotid, more inward, so that it is hid by the vein, till that be drawn aside, neither is the eighth nerve seen, and still less, the sympa- thetic ganglion. In a few instances, the eighth is seen more superficial. The ninth nerve and occipital artery, are also seen, and the accessory, where that nerve does not pass behind the vein. It thus appears, that the parts, inevitably to be cut, are the posterior facial vein, the external carotid artery, and the branches it gives off in the gland, with the accompanying veins, and the nerves connected with the gland. The sound gland may then be extirpated, without injury to any vital part, and, supposing the gland to be affected by a malignant disease, but not altered in its relations, the only objection which can be brought against extirpation, is, that some granule of the gland, may, notwithstanding, all our care and scraping, be left behind, an objection not sufficient to forbid an operation. "When the gland becomes diseased and enlarged, it may swell most, outwardly and forward, over the masseter, and