27 pressing the arytenoids together. It contracts a little and dilates as the arytenoid cartilages approach towards, or recede from, each other, in the act of expiration and inspix'ation. But this alternate contraction and dilatation of these parts, though useful, is not essential to respiration, for it may go freely on without the slightest wheezing although the parts be quiescent, but, in that case, it is feebly performed. This we may ascer- tain by exposing the top of the larynx in the rabbit. It may, in certain cases, for instance, with a view to restore respiration, be desirable to introduce a tube into the larynx. The tube should be made of elastic gum, and ought not to be above a quarter of an inch in diameter. It is to be introduced by the nostril, and whenever it is seen descending behind the velum, it is to be guided with the finger, or hooked probe, or by forceps, down close be- hind the epiglottis, that is, behind the root of the tongue. If drawn too far forward, it gets before the epiglottis into the fossa which is by the side of the frenum. If directed too far back, it gets on the surface of the arytenoid carti- lage, and glides down into the pharynx. It should pass at the points of the cartilages. If any resistance be now felt, it should be directed a very little backward, as the rima glottidis is wider behind than before; air is to be blown in gently, and in no great quantity, for it is impossible, in suspended animation, by any aid, to amplify the thorax to the same degree as if the diaphragm and intercostal muscles acted properly. By not attending to this, the bronchia may be ruptured. So far as I can judge from observations made in the course of experiments, I would say, that after an instru- ment has passed the rima, no excitation is given. If the animal be languid, I have not found any cough or movement to be produced by inserting a tube into the larynx, even when it first touphed the arytenoid cartilage or rima; and this is con- firmed by a case related by Desault, where the tube, by mistake, was introduced into the larynx instead of the pharynx, and the patient had nearly got his bronchia injected with soup. When the larynx does not do its duty, there is more painful sense of suffocation than when the lungs are prevented