14 shall afterwards see that it is difficidt to form a communication between the axilla and the supra-acromial or supra-clavicular space. In making this dissection, it cannot fail to be observed that the outermost layer of muscles, or the trapezius, forms a sheet comparatively loosely connected to the parts below. Wlien a tumour forms under this, it must continue bound down by it, and can find no way of escape otherwise than by produc- ing absorption of the muscle, or protruding between it and the sterno-mastoid. It is more apt to grow and extend under the muscle, and assume a flattened shape, but it is by no means necessary that it should be moveable, for it may form intimate adhesions to the deep fascia, and become inseparably connected with the muscles it covers. Glands may also swell amidst the deeper muscles, or tumours form there. These are more formidable, for they are sure to interest the muscles and produce adhesions and contractions, as well as painful sensations from pressing on the nerves. Many cases of stiff or wry neck, arise from deep glandular swellings, which it requires some attention to discover. Mere inflammation of the deep muscles themselves may produce this, and implicate the nerves which traverse them. Exposure to cold, a sudden motion of the neck, a blow, a swelled gland from absorption of matter, &c. may produce very tedious and painful stiffness, and, in many cases, from the involvement of branches of the spinal nerves, the medulla spinalis, or oblongata, come to suffer, and headach, vertigo, intolerance of light, &c. with affections of more distant parts, may be produced. Acute inflammation of some of these deep-seated glands, although apparently not a formidable disease, may prove rapidly fatal by involving either the jugular vein, or the nerves, in the inflammation, the result of which may be fatal coma. Encysted tumours are not rare in the region of the trapezius, and are always most easily managed when they are exterior to it. We must endeavour to decide their situation by attending to the effect of the contraction or relaxation of the muscle on them, their apt)arent depth, and their mobility. A very move- able tumour, which feels quite superficial, is clearly external