401 of the psoas muscle, and communicate with the spinal nerves, by branches as large as a bell-wire. The sympathetic nerve passes into the pelvis, deep, in a hollow, betw'een the psoas muscle and the promontory of the sacrum, so that, in labour, it is not pressed on. The sacral ganglia lie on, or a little to the out- side of, the foramina, by the side of the rectum. If we wish to expose, and tie the external iliac artery, we must attend to its course, which is that of a line from the side of the lumbar vertebrae, or sacro-iliac symphysis, to Poupart’s ligament, at the point where it issues. This varies a little, as shall hereafter be stated; but, in the adult male, in the greatest number of instances, the pubal margin of the artery, is two inches from the tubercle of the pelvis. In the female, the most frequent distance is, an inch and three-quarters. It is evident, that, in making our incision, we must cut, at least, as near to the tubercle, as the artery is, otherwise we cannot easily expose it. On the other hand, if we go too near the tubercle, we interfere with the cord to an unnecessary degree, and disturb the parts near the brim of the pelvis. The incision should be made parallel to Poupart’s ligament, and a quarter, or barely three-eighths, of an inch above it. It should be three inches long in the skin, but it is generally sufficient to make it half an inch less in the muscles ; if, how- ever, it be required, it is easy, afterwards, to enlarge it a little, in the direction found to be most useful. The pubal ex- tremity of the incision should reach to between an inch and a quarter and an inch and a half from the tubercle. The ilial extremity will come more or less near the spine of the ilium, according to the length of Poupart’s ligament. In cutting through the skin and fascia, the superficial epigastric artery and vein must be divided. The former, if large, may be tied before proceeding. The tendon of the external oblique is next to be divided, and gently drawn up, so as to expose the internal, on which the ilio-pubal nerve is seen. This, where the artery is situated, is about half an inch above Poupart’s ligament, and, runs downward and forward, to meet the lower margin of the cord at its issuing. It is easily avoided. On the lower part of the internal oblique, there is often seen II. 2 D