minimus, either skirting the upper margin of the pyriformis, or passing so far under, according as it continues more or less its origin, down along the notch. The pyriformis is next, then the gemellus superior, then the inferior, with the tendon of the obturator internus almost hid between them, part of its muscular fibres seen near the notch. Lastly, we have the quadratus, covering and hiding the continuation of the obturator externus. The pyriformis, at its issuing, is an inch and a half broad, and pretty thick. The gemelli, in- cluding the obturator internus, fully an inch and a quarter. The quadratus, nearly two inches. The implantation of the tendons is important. First, we have that of the gluteus minimus inserted, broad and strong, into the inner surface of the trochanter, from the front, up to its top, and a little way down behind. The pyriformis is inserted just at its posterior margin. Then, at the root, or in the fossa, we have, highest, the tendon of the superior gemellus, then that of the obturator internus, then the gemellus inferior, and, lastly, that of the obturator externus. Thus the root of the neck of the bone is, for a considerable part of its circum- ference, embraced by strong tendons. The quadratus has no part in this, but is inserted into the posterior margin of the great trochanter, beginning about an inch below its top. The great mass of flesh behind, is formed by the ham- string muscles, which arise from the tuberosity, by a thick and strong origin, covered by the gluteus maximus. They soon appear from under its margin, and become broader as they descend to the under third of the thigh. They are bound together by the common fascia; but, on removing this, we see the division into an outer and inner portion, separated from each other, as they become tendinous, near the joint, but requiring more dissection to separate them above. The outer portion, or biceps, receives a second head from the linea aspera, beginning as high as the termination of the tendon of the gluteus maximus, and continuing its attach- ment for above five inches, or till about three inches and a half of the top of the condyle. It is in the line between the adductor magnus and vastus externus. Its tendon goes to