396 the right common iliac artery, and continuing for sometime under it. Each artery runs down by the side of the body of the vertebra, and, on the inside of the psoas muscle at the lower part of the last vertebra, it subdivides into the external and internal iliacs. The external, for some way, continues rather by the side of the psoas, then on it, and partly covers the vein about an inch and a half, or more from Poupart; the artery is on the muscle to the ilial side of the vein, which often overhangs somewhat the brim, and, ultimately, as it passes out, lies on the rim of the pubis and the origin of the pectineus, whilst the artery here, that is, just within Poupart’s ligament, is on the side of the psoas, covering the tendon of the psoas parvus, scarcely, if at all, on the angle between the psoas and pectineus. The relation of the spermatic or ovarian arteries will be more properly considered presently. The epigastric artery comes from the face of the external iliac, almost immediately behind Poupart’s ligament, though sometimes farther back, and mounts by the ilial side of the vas deferens or round ligament. It is accompanied by a vein on each side, or, if there be only one, it is on its pubic side. The circumflexa ilii comes off about the same place from the outer margin of the artery, but sometimes higher. It speedily gets under the iliac fascia, and runs outward parallel to Pou- part’s ligament till near the spine of the ilium, when it gets between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles. Its vein, if not double, runs either lower or is covered by it. The obturator sometimes comes off from the iliac; but the more minute consideration of this branch must be delayed. The internal iliac, or hypogastric, turns over the iliac vein, and gets on the face or to the front of its corresponding vein. At the side of the lower margin of the last vertebra it gives off the ilio-lumbal, a large branch, which immediately sub- divides into two: one goes directly backward to the muscle, another outward, both passing beneath the external iliac vein and the psoas magnus. Sometimes it gives a branch down by the side of the sacrum, sending twigs into the foramina. Between it, on each side, and the sacra media, which comes off from the aorta at its bifurcation, is a vein belonging to the lat-