274 forward, within the clavicle, on a level with its upper margin, and close by the bone, to enter the root of the internal jugu- lar. These two veins, then, which run down, though at dif- ferent depths, unite below, by the passing forward of the ex- ternal, and in this intervening space, the artery is to be sought for, and we must, in order to avoid these veins, neither go too far forward, nor very far back, nor close by the mar- gin of the clavicle. The distance between the veins may be about an inch. It must, however, be remembered, that the internal jugular, sometimes goes far out, and the external, in others, is so far forward, as to meet the clavicle at the outer margin of the artery, or even at the spot where it issues. There may thus be less than half an inch between them. If we cut the platysma, in the space between the mastoid and trapezius muscles, we find under it, a quantity of cellular substance, with several glands. On cleaning this, which is somewhat triangular in shape, we find it bounded, behind, by the external jugular vein, below, by the clavicle, and that vein, whilst, farther inward, beneath the mastoid muscle, we shall find the internal jugular. Dissecting off a deeper layer of fascia, we expose, at a depth of at least half an inch back from the inner surface of the bone, the artery, with the nerves to its outside, and also higher. Fully an inch above the clavicle, we see the transversalis colli artery, crossing out- wardly, on the scalenus muscle, to get below the trapezius, whilst its large vein runs parallel to it, but lower, coming to enter the jugular. The transversalis humeri, also from the thyroid axis, runs outward, and descends on the scalenus, then, on the axillary plexus. From its oblique course, it soon meets the clavicle, and runs outward, just within its up- per margin, with its large corresponding vein, which enters the internal jugular, at the angle made with the subclavian vein. From the transversalis colli vein, there is often a branch sent down, by the outer margin of the scalenus, to join the transversalis humeri. This sometimes crosses the artery, just as it issues, and is in the way when we expose the vessel. Occasionally, we have also, just higher, a branch coming out through the plexus, to run in to the internal