141 toid pi ocess and clavicle, a quarter of an inch or more below the appearance of the auricular. It turns over the surface of the muscle, running obliquely across it, or a little upward, to the front of the larynx. It is quite superficial, involved in the fibres of the platysma, and exterior to the external jugular vein, excepting a few fibfilae, which pass below it. The trunk is variable in size, being sometimes as large as a stocking wire, sometimes like a small thread. The branches are numerous, but small; one runs up in front of the posterior jugular vein, toward the angle of the jaw and parotid gland; others go toward the digastric muscle, and one directly forward; others downward, so that it is a very extensive cutaneous nerve. The Infimus is the lowest branch. It runs downward, and either appears at the margin of the mastoid muscle, about half an inch lower, or continues a little longer overlapped by it, and then turns out to cross the muscle. It is rather deeper than the medius, for its trunk is not only under the platysma, but also below the posterior jugular vein. The branches, how- ever, become more superficial, and some of them are above the anterior external jugular. They go to the superficial muscles and skin, and a large one runs parallel to the clavicle, about an inch and a half above it. The distribution, then, of these nerves is very simple; three run straight up, and two across ; and all of these may be the seat of painful affections. Small glands lie in the course of the trunk of these, deep on the great occipital, or laterally, and mox-e superficially, over the others. When these inflame, the nerves may be involved, and pain felt in the tract of their distribution, or the parotid gland may be tender, or earache produced, or stiffness of the muscle occasioned, or, by other nerves being sympathetically affected, more distant parts are disordered. It is impossible to specify exactly what glands may be enlarged; but not one of the nerves I have described are unconnected with glands. Farther, although no gland, deep, or superficial, be enlarged, the nerves themselves may be the seat of disease, or the arteries and veins in their vicinity may enlarge and press on them. Branches of the vena cer- vicalis profunda run in the tract of both the occipital nerves.