316 division of the third joins the first, and the nerve thus formed, unites to the fifth, and presently this trunk subdi- vides: the fifth, and sixth, unite, and receive the separated branches of the third; next, the seventh and the dorsal unite; or, the fourth and fifth join, ami this trunk unites with the sixth, and, farther on, with the united trunk of the seventh and dorsal. The outer head, of the median nerve, is formed from the fourth and fifth, sometimes with an addition from the third, or from these, and the sixth cervical nerve. The inner head, from the seventh, and the first dorsal nerve, often chiefly from the latter. The internal cutaneous, has either the same origin with the inner head, or comes off from it. The exter- nal cutaneous, either comes off from the outer head, or rises as a separate nerve, from the fourth, fifth, and sixth, or the fourth and fifth cervical. The ulnar, rises from the first dor- sal, and last cervical nerve, with an addition, sometimes, from the sixth. The spiral, occasionally’rises, chiefly, from the last cervical, or from the fourth and fifth, or, fifth and sixth ; but is often connected with all, or, it rises from a common trunk, formed ultimately by all, and which also may give off the articular and infra-scapular. The nerves in, and near, the axilla, have already been so far noticed. The Supra-scapular, sometimes rises chiefly from the third or fifth, but generally from the fourth, passes out- ward, to get under the ligament, which stretches across the notch in the scapula, and is distributed to both the spinati, and neighbouring muscles. The Infra-scapular comes off along with the articular, from the sixth, seventh, and first dor- sal, or from the spiral nerve, or from a common trunk to which all the nerves contribute, and which may be considered as the head of the spiral. It runs obliquely downward and back- ward, on the subscapularis, to which it gives branches, and also to the serratus magnus-and latissimus dorsi. A large division of the nerve, from which it derives its name, runs along the margin of the subscapularis, with the infra-scapular artery, supplying the teretes. The Articular nerve comes off' with the infra-scapular, from the same source, though, some-