49 clavicle, at an inch ami a half fi*om the back of its acromial end, winding obliquely upward and forward over the scalenus posticus and plexus of nerves, and crossed by the posterior jugular vein, which adhei'es to its fascia about from two and tliree quarters of an inch, to three inches from the sterno- claviculai- articulation. It is, however, irregular in its course; for sometimes it rims nearly in a straight line to the os hyoides, from tlie scapula, forming the base of a triangle, completed by the larynx and trachea in front, and the clavicle below, and, in that case, the distance from the base, formed by the margin of the muscle, to the apex at the sternal end of the clavicle, is two inches. More frequently it runs for some way nearly parallel with, or at a small angle to, the clavicle. It then forms a tendon, which is connected to the neighbouring parts by firm cellular substance, acting like a pulley, and extending as a sheath along the posterior belly. Becoming again fleshy, it goes first a little forward, and then upward to the os hyoides, decussating obliquely the sterno-thyroideus, till it get to its insertion more forward tlian that muscle. It often comes in contact with the outer margin of the sterno-hyoideus at tlie cricoid cartilage, running from that up on the sterno-thy- roideus. The tendon of the omo-hyoideus divides it into a clavicular and guttural portion; and whether these two por- tions form an angle with each other at the tendon and its pulley, or run in a more continued line without a pulley, the muscle crosses the carotid artery: but in the one case, the point of decussation, by the upper margin of die muscle, is lower than in the other, ranging from one to two inches and a half above the clavicle. Often, the muscle crosses nearly opposite to the under end of the thyroid cartilage, or about midway between the clavicle and the angle of the jaw. All these muscles are of importance in the anatomy of the neck, and in tlie relations of tumour, as well as the exposure of the carotid artery. At the top, we find the sterno and omo-hyoideus connected to the os hyoides, and attached to each otlier. The latter lies most outward, winding down over the thyroid cartilage, and passing within a quarter of an inch of its upper angle. If traced downward, it will be found.