351 those cases, most likely to require the operation, and we shall come to the conclusion, that it is only to be performed, when there already exists a considerable wound, or when the extensive diffusion of blood, in a case of puncture, renders the exposure of the vessel, at the spot, necessary. If we be to tie the artery, higher, perhaps an inch and a half, or a little more, above the joint, we shall take the margin of the biceps for our guide, and, as in the former case, have to draw inward the median basilic vein. Then, we divide the deep fascia, extending from the biceps, over the artery, &c., but do not require to cut the aponeurotic expansion from its tendon. In all probability, the basilic vein, (brachial) will not yet have joined the artery, which will be found between its two comites, or with one of them rather on it. Its relation to the median nerve, is not always the same. !^The nerve may be to the inside of the artery, or it may be a little behind it. Different species of injury are met with here. The aneurismal varix, as it has been called, is perhaps the most frequent, and the nature and symptoms, of this have been described in the first volume. No operation ought to be performed. From the circumstance just described of one of the comites, very often, lying on the face of the artery, at the bend of the arm, it might be expected that a double varix should not be rai'e. The median basilic is first transfixed, then the comes, and, last of all, the artery is pricked. Although the deep vein must be bound down, by the expan- sion from ,the biceps, and deep fascia, yet, it is not always easy to make a certain diagnosis. But this is of less importance, as the treatment is the same. Varicose aneurism must be rare, for the vein being carried forward by the circumscribed aneurismal sac, and soon lined, more or less thickly, with coagulum, is less likely to have the communi- cation with the artery preserved, than in the former case, or varix. We, indeed, often observe, after emptying the vein in aneurismal varix, that a throbbing tumour remains below it, but this is small, cannot be diminished, and seems to be merely a thickening round the artery. Varicose aneurism is, to all intents and purposes, a false circumscribed