4S9 wound the muscle itself. We ought now to be on the artery. But this, which, till it meet the muscle, is only covered by thin fascia, often almost cellular, enters about this place, under a firmer expansion (page 479). It does so, some- times, within three inches, sometimes not till five, below the ligament. We divide this for nearly an inch, and then the proper sheath is seen. This sheath is to be slit up, for about three-quarters of an inch, and a blunt needle, with a ligature, introduced between it and the artery. The cellular fibres, which are pushed before its point, on the other side, are to be scratched through. This is better than a more extensive insulation, for the less the artery is detached the better. The spot which we tie, is from four to five inches below the ligament.- Sometimes the margin of the muscle, in our line of incision, corresponds to the tract of the artery, in so far, that it merely covers it; but, generally, it extends more inwardly, over it. In fat subjects, or when the muscle is strong and thick, we see the artery better if the foot be rolled outward. We cannot mistake the artery, if we trust to the eye, and not to pulsation—a portion of cellular substance has been tied, in place of the vessel. We attend to the deep nerves already described. The saphenus is to the outside of the artery, at the most, only involved in the sheath, not within it, and, therefore, it cannot be injured. The sartoi’ian nerve, which crosses the face of the artery, is raised with the muscle; but a muscular nerve, we have seen, crosses, to go more deeply. If it do so at this spot, it is easily detected, and may be avoided ; at all events, it never can be included in the ligature, if the sheath be fairly opened. We do not wish even to divide it, if that be not necessary, for the less adventitious mischief we do to the limb the better. The vein lies behind, and is safe, if the instrument be kept close by the artery. One end of the ligature, which should not be large, is to be cut off, and the lips of the wound united by plaster. The artery is never now tied in the lower part of the thigh, if there be no special reason for it. In this operation, the object is, to expose it, a little before it passes the triceps, to get to the ham. The easiest way is, to cut by the ilial,