of the coronoicl process, ami from the ratlins at its tubercle, tlownwartl, for some way beyond the insertion of the prona- tor. The two heads meet at an angle, and unite at a little more than an inch below tlie top of tlie radius. The flexor radialis, subliinis, and pronator, are very intimately united at first, rising from a common tendon. If we suppose the first of these, to rise by a tendinous substance, becoming broader, and extending more outward, as it descends in the thick part of the fore-arm, but not covered in the whole of that extent, by its own proper fibres, and next, that the pronator, rising a little higher than the flexor, from the condyle, appropriates the uncovered part of this tendinous sheet, and continues to rise from it, we shall have a tolerably just idea, and may almost consider these two, as one muscle, dividing for different insertions. We cannot separate them higher, than to fully two inches and a half below the joint, and, down to that extent, the common tendon descends. With the under surface of this, the flexor sublimis is also connected, for about two inches down. With regard to the pronator, it still remains to mention, that besides this great origin, there is a separate and small head, rising deeper, by a thin but broad tendon, from the inner margin of the coronoid process, just at the outside of the insertion of the brachieus, covered by the origin of the flexor sublimis, and bounded at the margin, by the profundus. The two heads, till they unite, which is soon, are lined with aponeurosis and cellular sub- stance, forming a very distinct slit, through which the median nerve passes. When they unite, it is by means of tendinous substance, which also connects them, there, with the flexor sublimis. The belly of the pi’onator I’uns downward and outward, to be inserted, by a tendon more than an inch broad, into the radius, about three inches, or three and a half below its top, and thence descends as far as the breadth of the tendon. Removing the flexor sublimis, and the other still more super- ficial muscles, already described, we see the flexor profundus, which was covered by the sublimis, the radial origin of which, separated it from the supinator brevis, and pronator teres.