503 layer crossing from the tibia to tlie fibula, over the deep layer of muscles, and the vessels and nerve, and in the region of the tendon, we have these muscles farther obscured by fat and cellular substance. The gastrocnemius rises first tendinous, and then fleshy, from the femur, just above the condyles, by two heads, and also from the capsule behind them. These two origins con- verge for about an inch, when they unite, first, by cellular, and then, lower, by muscular substance, but so as to possess evidently two bellies which form the calf of the leg. The innermost head is the longest and thickest. Just below the calf, the muscle ends in a flat strong tendon, which for the present we must leave. The Soleus, or gastrocnemius internus, rises from the upper and back part of the head of the fibula, and from its ridge for about a third of its length. The muscle from its origin slopes downward and inward toward the tibia, but does not reach it till about from three to four inches below its head. It now begins to arise O from it also. The fleshy belly of the gastrocnemius externus is lined by a fascia which at the calf is reflected upon the surface of this muscle. The muscular substance of the soleus does not however stop here, but is implanted into the tendon of the former, and continues down attached to it till near the ankle. It therefore makes use of its tendon. But besides this, a tendinous cord issues from the substance of the muscle, to be lost in that tendon. There is thus a strong O tendon about four inches long, common to both, formed, and named the tendo-Achilles. This is implanted into the end of the os calcis, fibres extending over its sides and from its under surface, to be continuous with the plantar aponeurosis. Its connexion with the bone is so strong, that if great force be used, its surface is torn away, rather than the tendon ruptured. At the upper part of the end of the bone, a bursa, nearly half an inch in diameter, is interposed. Between the tendon and the astragalus, is a considerable thickness of fatty cellular substance. If we separate the gastrocnemii muscles as far as we can, we see between them a delicate tendon which comes from a small pyramidal muscle, the