318 the superior, or little, cutaneous nerve. When wantintr, its place IS supplied by a division of the intercosto-humeral. Sometimes it comes off from the internal cutaneous, or receives a small head from it, which crosses the vein. A lit- tle above the condyle, this nerve, often, lies on the face of the ulnar. The relation of the other nerves, on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, has already been described (page 295). The Median nerve, formed as we have seen, runs, for the greatest part of the arm, by the margin of the biceps, partly overhung by it, pretty nearly on the face of the artery. In a few instances, the two heads do not meet till near the middle of the arm, one lying before the other, partly behind, and partly on the inside of the artery. About four inches above the joint, the nerve begins to be more under the artery, which, near the bend of the arm, covers the nerve, and at the bend, is more toward the tendon of the biceps, that is, the nerve is to the inside of the artery, though in some cases it is found on it. No branches are given off, regularly, by the median in the arm, except filaments to the sheath or covering of the vessels. But, sometimes, the external cutane- ous comes off from it, or, where that nerve does not give off the brachial branch, it rises from the median, about half way up the arm. It is not much larger than a thick thread, con- tinues with the trunk till about a handsbreadth above the joint, when, crossing obliquely the artery, it gets to the brach- ieus internus, where it is lost. About an inch and a half above the joint, there is often given off, a small branch, that runs down on the face of the inner vena comes, to the pronator teres. The external cutaneous also, occasionally, comes off from the trunk of the median, either following its regular course, or, after running longer than usual, down in the coraco-brachialis, it comes out of that, and goes beneath the biceps. Indeed, most ffequently, this nerve comes off’ not distinctly from the axillary plexus, but from the anterior, or outer, head of the median. In some cases, this head like the external cutaneous, enters the coraco-brachialis, runs down in it for some way, and then coming out, joins the other