442 the cord, and the tendon of the transversalis goes behind it, attached to Poupart’s ligament, it is evident that, here, the latter descends lower than the former. The floor, toward the inferior aperture, is formed by the channel in Poupart’s ligament; the upper margin, by union of the muscular fibres of the internal oblique to the wall behind. The length of the canal varies. It is measured from the lunated margin of the inferior, to the pubal margin of the superior aperture. This, in the male, in the natural state, is from an inch and a half, to an inch and seven-eighths, generally an inch and five-eighths. In the female, from an inch, to an inch and three-quarters, most frequently about an inch and a half. The size of the upper aperture, in the male, is not always well defined—the ilial and upper margin being often blended with cellular substance. It is oval, the long diameter being directed obliquely upward. It is scarcely an inch long, and the breadth is a quarter of an inch less. Sometimes, it is considerably less, and more accurately fitted to the size of the cord. The height of the lower margin, above Poupart’s ligament, is not less than three-eighths of an inch; but, as the cord is not always close on the margin, it frequently issues a quarter of an inch higher, especially the ilial margin, which may be a quarter of an inch higher than the pubal. The cord winds gradually downward and inward, and reaches Poupart’s ligament within an inch of the lunated margin of the inferior aperture. Near its exit, it is a quarter of an inch higher than the margin of the ligament. It passes out with its pubal margin, pretty close to the tubercle, and there it is about half an inch broad. When we remove the coverings of the fascia transversalis, we observe that, at the upper aperture of the canal, the peritonaeum, from the pressure of the neighbouring parts, protrudes a little over the cord, like a short funnel. Now, when the canal is wider than usual, a similar projection takes place, and this increases till a regular sac protrude, contain- ing intestine, or omentum. It often happens, that fat is deposited in the canal, widening it, and, when this is