4<07 The Glutea comes out at the upper part of the notch, a little forward, in an obtuse angle, formed by the sweep of the bone, or the end of that line which runs up from the spine of the ischium. The artery is large, and whenever it appears at the notch, it subdivides into muscular branches. The stump, or trunk, issues about two inches forward from the inferior pos- terior spinous process of the ilium, and fully four inches below the crest of that bone. But it is not necessary to be minute in measurement, for, if the finger be directed to the upper part of the notch, and forward to where it begins to sweep down, it must touch the artery. The vein is lower, and a little farther back, and deeper : a branch goes forward across the artery. The nerve is still lower, or sometimes covered by the artery, and this makes it dangerous to secure the artery by a random stroke of the needle. Before the trunk appears the vein is below and behind it, interposed between it and the great ischiatic nerve. We must be sure that we really tie the artery, and not merely an expansion of fibrin from it. Whilst the Glutea comes outat the upper, the Ischiatic issues at the under margin of the pyriformis. If a line be drawn di- rectly back from the top of the trochanter to the extent of three inches and a half, the artery will be found at that point, or, it is three and a quarter, up from the end of the tuberosity, and rather more than an inch forward, from the side of the sacrum. The great sciatic nerve lies before it, and the little sciatic or inferior gluteal is between them. This last nerve accom- panies the artery in its divisions. The vein is behind, and deeper than the artery. If the finger be placed at the under part of the notch, a little before the point of the spine of the ischium, or up from its root, it touches the artery, more of which can be displayed if the pyriformis be pressed up. The Pudic artery issues with the ischiatic, which, along with its vein, covers or obliquely crosses it, and also here sends one, or sometimes two, pretty large branches, the coccygeal, backward across it. There is not altogether a length of half an inch between the emerging of the artery and Its getting under the sacro-sciatic ligament; and even where it is not covered by the ischiatic, it is so close to it, in front.