243 Its upper end is about half an inch broad. The Depressors of the lip, arise on each side, from the oblique line of the jaw, under the depressor anguli oris, and form two thin broad muscles, which mount upward and forward, appearing in front, from under that muscle, and decussating one another, as they go to the lip. They are not square as some represent them. The front of the chin, in the angle formed by their decussation, should be without muscular covering, were it not for the Levator menti, which arises on each side, from the jaw, at the incisor and canine teeth, sending its fibres downward, meeting with those from the other side, both ending in the lower lip, and skin of the chin. Thus, we find the orbicularis oris, surrounded by a radiation of muscles, which contribute also to the formation of the lip. The platysmal fascia, passes from the neck, up on the face. It is lost in, or forms, the parotid fascia, which covers the gland. It ascends strong and distinct, on the side of the jaw, and on the chin, but before reaching the lip in front, or the level of the mouth at the sides, it becomes thin and cellular. In this state, it covers all the rest of the face, under the skin, but in many instances, is not very distinct. On dissecting it off’, we find fatty cellular substance, in which, on the cheek, are imbedded the parotid duct, superficial muscles, vessels, and nerves. Cleaning this off, we expose the radiating muscles more distinctly, laid in one part, on the buccinator, to which they are connected by cellular substance. On the bony part of the cheek, and on part of the temple, we have also the expansion of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Tumours, confined to tiie region of the masseter muscle, and the upper bony part of the cheek, must, of necessity, be superficial, and, if not of a malignant nature, affecting the part on which they rest, they can be effectually removed. In one district, however, the parotid duct is in danger, and must; be carefully avoided. Branches of the portio dura, may also be divided, paralyzing the orbicularis palpebrarum, or other muscles. On the buccinator region, the parotid duct is, at the back part, still in danger, and more forward, we have the angular