244 vein and artery. We must also be careful of the buccinator itself, and the other muscles covering the membrane of the mouth. A tumour may also occupy the cellular pit, which exists under the zygomaticus and levator proprius, connect- ed with the infra-orbitar nerve. Between the buccinator, and the anterior edge of the masseter, there is fat, into which, a tumour may extend to the margin of the coronoid process of the jaw. There is also, we have seen, a space, between this process and the back of the upper jaw and buccinator, where fat and cellular substance are lodged. If a tumour extend in this direction, it will occupy the place of this fat, and rest, before, on the back of the antrum; within and back- ward, on the buccinator; upward, outward, and backward, on the temporal, and it may press in, and so far back, as to touch the pterygoideus externus. The internal maxillary, in its course and distribution, will be interested, but this, and the nerves, require to be afterwards noticed. There is no fascia on the Lip, but, under the skin, is dense cellular substance, covering the orbicularis, which is rendered broader by the Nasalis labii superioris, or fibres which rise from the septum of the nose, or rather between the proper septum, and the nasal or moveable fibrous band, formed, apparently, by the turning down of the tip of each nostril, to the nasal process of the maxillary bone, and con- sequently double. This muscle can aid the Depressor labii superioris, which lies close on the bone, above the incisor teeth, and also draw down the nasal band. From the process, there descends, perpendicularly, in the upper lip, a dense fibro-cellular strip, with a slight hollow between its two mar- gins, forming the naso-labial sulcus. Partly covered by, and partly higher than, the nasalis muscle, is a thin Compressor naris, rising, narrow, at the canine fossa, and expanding on the wing of the nose. If we dissect off the levators, we find that they have contri- buted much to the formation of the lip, for, beyond the margin of the orbicularis and nasalis, we see little between it and the buccinator, but the mucous membrane, now, almost bare. This membrane lines the lips, being reflected from the gums,