424 sively in or under the fascia, and pass through the angular pit of fat, to join, far back, the hajmorrhoidal, or pudic vein. Those which return the blood from the different regular branches of the pudic artery, accompany these branches, with the exception of the vena dorsalis penis, which, entering the slit in the triangular fascia, passes along the side of the prostate gland, to communicate with the vesical vein. The pudic nerve, like the artery, re-enters the pelvis, by passing over either the spine of the- ischium, or end of the ligament, and, like it, is firmly bound down by fascia. Often it divides into two before entering, and the artery lies between them; if not, it divides, immediately afterwards. One divi- sion, for the perinaeum, &c., runs lower than the artery; another, which is continued to the pubis and penis, runs higher. This last accompanies the dorsal artery, passing out, generally, to the inside of the artery; but, when fairly on the dorsum, it often lies almost on the artery, that is, more superficially. It is distributed on the crura, &c., all the way forward. The first gives off the external haemorrhoidal, transversalis perinei, superficialis perinei, accompanying, more or less closely, the corresponding arteries. The gluteal nerve sends forward twigs to the skin of the perinaeum. A catheter, of almost any shape, straight, or gently curved, may be introduced into the bladder. One gently curved toward the extremity passes readily. The acce- lerator, on each side, rises high at the suspensory of the urethra, and might be supposed capable, by contracting, to press the sides of the canal nearer each other, and thus pre- vent the flow of urine, or entrance of the catheter. But it is not so. Spasm, were it to exist, can do no more than tighten- ing the muscle, by pulling it down, does, and this has na effect. In the healthy state of the urethra, there are two points, where difficulty may be experienced, in passing the instrument. The first is at the triangular fascia, just at the very origin of the bulb, where it departs from the canal, which here passes through the triangular fascia. The bulb is fixed to the fascia here, and so is the membranous canal.