210 fascia and platysma. But it also may extend upward, and backward, and inward. If upward and inward, it will press on the tonsil, and side of the root of the tongue. If back- ward and inward, it will press on the pharynx and epiglottis. If forward and upward, on the membrane, betw’een the jaw and side of the tongue. It is rarely that the gland is diseased, but when it is, and requires extirpation, that ought to be re- sorted to early, for it may soon extend deeply, or form adhe- sions to the pharynx, &c. By dividing freely the platysma, and the proper fascia of the gland, which may be thickened, we can easily insulate it, but if it be indurated, and universally diseased, it will be generally necessary to divide the facial ar- tery, and also the vein. We may either dissect from below, upward, and from behind, forward, which will leave the di- vision of the artery, till the last, or, we may begin from below, and behind, in which case the artery may be seen, and tied, before being divided, or taken up when cut. We must recol- lect the prolongation, which goes under the mylo-hyoideus to the sublingual gland, and if that be diseased, it will be neces- sary, perhaps, to divide part of that muscle, or gently pull the glandular prolongation toward the wound, but no force must be used, as we may affect the sublingual gland. Unless we dissect, too carelessly, on the hyo-glossus, the ninth nerve is safe; and if the tumour have not extended up, and formed connexions with the fifth, that is also safe. Much more frequently, a conglobate gland is swelled, and altered in its texture. Young people of a strumous habit, have often such swellings, which do not require any opera- tion. But, if an adult be thus affected, and if suppuration do not take place, then, if the gland increase, though slowly, it is better at once to remove it. If stationary, and not incon- venient, it is a matter of choice. On the contrary, an operation ought not to be delayed, if the tumour be increasing, firm, and becoming fixed. If neglected, the original tumour ex- tends in all directions; other glands, perhaps, are involved, and at last, a fixed irregular mass, occupies the greatest part of the side and front of the neck, becomes connected with the thyroid gland, and involves both the carotid artery and