103 not only by the hyo-glossus, but partly by the digastric and mylo-hyoideus. The lingual near its origin gives off a small branch, the hyoidea, which passes under the ninth nerve and digastric muscle, along the upper margin of the os hyoides, ramifying on the bone and above it, and, lower, to the sub- stance about the ligament of the epiglottis. Soon after the lingualis enters within the hyo-glossus, perhaps about a quar- ter of an inch forward from its margin, it gives off the dorsalis linguae, which mounts up to the side of the root of the tongue, winds over its side to the upper surface, and joins with the branches from the other side. It sends twigs to the epiglottis, tonsil, and pharynx, besides ramifying on the root of the tongue. The lingual artery runs on under the hyo-glossus, almost parallel to the horn of the os hyoides, for three quar- ters of an inch, or ascending very gradually. Near the front of the os hyoides, it is more distant, and, here, it rises abruptly, to pass out at the anterior margin of the hyo-glossus, a little below the under surface of the tongue. In other cases, it ascends more obliquely. It runs for a time pretty nearly in the tract of the nerve, or a very little lower, but then gets a little higher, so as to be above it, but with the hyo-glossus interposed. At the margin of that muscle, about a quarter of an inch back from the front of the os hyoides, or at a sepa- ration of it into two fasciculi, the artery re-appears. At this spot it divides into two branches, one, the ranine, going for- ward on, or in, the substance of the genio-hyo-glossus, and into the substance of the tongue; the other, the sublingual, going lower. In the fork formed by this division, the bngual nerve often passes forward; that is, the ranine artery is higher, the sublingual lower, than the nerve, which accompanies the ranine artery into the substance of the tongue. The first is the continuation of the artery, and becomes involved in the substance of the genio-hyo-glossus, and, entering the proper substance of the tongue, may be traced to its very tip, where it joins with the one from the other side; but till then the two are quite distinct. At the fraenum, the artery is very superficial; and in dividing that duplicature in children, which is very seldom necessary, the artery or vein may be