231 the outer gum, as the inner is by a continuation from the palate. When the gum is principally affected, especially toward the palate, the outward deformity may not be great. But when the antrum enlarges, the cheek is swelled, the orbitar plate raised, so that the eye is sometimes forced for- ward, and the cornea becomes ulcerated, the nostril and pal- ate are involved, and the disease may spread back to the sphenoidal cells. Usually, the skin ultimately inflames, and a fungus protrudes, at one or more points, externally, as well as into the mouth and nose. It is chiefly in an early stage, that an operation can be advisable, and, even then, the dis- ease is liable to be renewed. If confined to the antrum, we only require to make a free opening in its front, and clear the cavity, and apply some escharotic, to destroy the remain- ing diseased surface. But, usually, the operation must be more extensive. We may require to take away the alveolar process of the upper jaw, which extends back to the ptery- goid process, a portion of the palatine process, the fore part of the maxilla, covering the antrum, and very probably more or less of the turbinated bones, if these be not already absorbed or destroyed. It is not usual for the disease, if not beyond the reach of an operation, to make it necessary to remove the nasal process, orbitar plate, or malar bone. The two arteries of most importance, are the infra-orbitar, which goes into the antrum, and to the alveoli, and the alveolar which winds from the tuber of the jaw, round over the alveoli. If we go back, we may have the posterior nasal and descending pala- tine. In the preliminary step, we may have the more super- ficial arteries, such as the labial, &c., opened, for sometimes it is necessary to cut up the lip or cheek. The pterygoid muscles are only affected, if the disease have gone backward and downward; if upward and outward, the insertion of the temporal may be involved. If the disease be eradicated, the expanded bone, to a certain degree, resumes its figure, so that the eye, though protruded, may again subside, and the external appearance improve. The ORBIT is irregularly shaped, but tapers toward the back, wheie it terminates in the sphenoidal fissure. This, in the