.528 cular branches are given off‘. From the arch on its concave side, similar small vessels arise. From its upper surface, three or four posterior perforating arteries, ascend to the interossei, and pass on to the dorsum of the foot. From its convex surface, four digital arteries proceed to the little toe, and three adjoining ones, subdividing so as to furnish a branch to each side; and near the subdivision, a small branch perforates to the dorsum. These are the anterior perforating arteries. At the interval, between the metatarsal bone of the great and adjoining toes, the artery sends a pretty large branch, across the former, to the margin of the toe, whilst the trunk joins in the space, the anterior tibial artery. The general course of the Tibialis antica has already been described. Within two inches above the ankle, it gives olF.two malleolar arteries. The internal, passes inward, covered by the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and ramifies over the ankle, anastamosing with the posterior branches. The external, runs outward, close on the bone, is distributed in like manner with the former, and anastamoses with the peronea. Other irregular branches ramify in front of the joint. The dorsal artery, as the trunkis called, gives off, at the naviculare, the tar- sal branch, which runs outward, supplying the extensor brevis, the bones, muscles of the little toe, and, finally, communicates with the plantar artery. The metatarsal, rises farther forward, at the commencement of the metatarsal bones. It arches outward under the tendons, supplying the parts it traverses, and also sending forward from the arch, three, or perhaps four small branches, along the interosseous spaces, to the interosseous muscles, to the sides of the small toes, and to anastamose with the perforating arteries. Both of these arteries also send branches inward. The dorsal artery, goes in the interosseous space, by the outer margin of the tendon of the extensor brevis, to the great toe, and a little beyond the proximal end of its metatarsal bone, dips down into the sole to join the plantar arch. This termination is called the communicating branch. Just before this, the dorsal artery gives off a pretty large branch, the dorsalis pollicis,