.‘338 olecranon and triceps. Then, lower, they go to the side of the olecranon, and others go forwai’d to the coronoid process. Altogether, this ligament is broad, the band going directly outward, being near halt an inch broad. Besides this internal lateral ligament, we also find the fibrous capsule strengthened, by fibres running from the coronoid process, backward and upward, along the side of the olecranon, and rising like a wall at the side, as high nearly on the lateral surface of the trochlea, supplying the deficiency of bone at the side of the coronoid process. It is hid by both heads of the flexor ulnaris and the nerve. The root of the olecranon, corresponds to the line of the articulating surface, or that of the head of the radius. If the bone be broken just below that, it is a fracture of the shaft, and no retraction takes places. But, if above that, the triceps tends to draw up the broken piece, and does so in proportion, as the firm fibrous coverings of the bone already described, and the capsule connected with the margin of the process, may have been lacerated. The anconeus has little effect, unless the fracture be low, and the fibrous expan- sion much lacerated. Unless the fore-arm be much bent, the retraction is sometimes so slight, that the existence of fracture, is only discovered by crepitation. Union by ossific substance, unless near the shaft, is not to be invariably expected, and, therefore, it is of more importance to have the intermedium small. The extended position, with pi’oper compresses and rollers, is well adapted for the purpose, but some advise the semibent state, on the supposition, that the other leaves a deficiency in front, apt to be filled by irregular callus. This can only happen, if the compresses be inaccu- rately placed, so as to permit separation of the bone. It is possible for the broken portion, to form an adhesion to the margin of the sigmoid cavity, and, then, motion can only be performed by the pliability of the intermedium, or the forma- tion of a new joint, at the line of the fracture. This is to be prevented by passive motion, begun at the proper time, but so conducted, as not to separate the surface of the fractured part. As the fracture must communicate with the joint, if