24 another. The epiglottis is placed in front, and from its sides the mucous membrane passes olf to the arytenoid cartilage, forming a duplicature so distinct, as to seem to contain a band, although none exist. This duplicature also passes down on the inside of the horn of the os hyoides, that of the thyroid cartilage, and a part of the inner surface of that cartilage, so as to form a scaphoid fossa on each side. This aryteno-epiglottic fossa is little less than an inch deep, measured from the margin of the duplicature, and it extends half an inch forward from the side of the peak of the arytenoid cartilage. Any tumour formed here, or any foreign body fixed here, as, for instance, a fish-bone, must not only impair respiration, and the voice, but also deglutition. In the act of swallowing, the arytenoid carti- lages are laid a little forward, and brought closer together by the muscles, all of which are flexors or constrictors, excepting the crico-arytenoideus posticus, which dilates. If they be brought very much forward, they can cover pretty completely the rima glottidis or air-passage. But this is rendered more secure by the epiglottis folding back over them, like a valve or lid. If these three substances be destroyed, or if, by inflam- mation or change of structure, they cannot be folded down, part of the morsel which is swallowed, must find its way into the glottis. But so long as the arytenoid cartilages are free, and can do their duty, they may, in a great measure, compen- sate for the loss of most of the epiglottis. The epiglottis, however, cannot be much inflamed without, by the medium of the mucous membrane, communicating a similar state to the arytenoid cartilage. In an ordinary examination of the fauces, the epiglottis is not seen if it be healthy, but if it be swollen and inflamed, then, by depressing the tongue, its upper part may be seen of a deep red colour. The fauces are not neces- sarily inflamed, for the inflammation may be more confined to the membrane passing to the larynx. But that membrane may also be inflamed by communication from the tonsils, without involving the epiglottis. In epiglottitis, there is pain at the root of the tongue, and generally difficulty of swallow- ing, so that, often, before any fluid can get down into tlie larynx, an instinctive effort is made to bolt, or cough, the whole