508 the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus. It is the accesso- rius. Turning it, and the tendons outward, we see the ad- ductor pollicis, and at the digital articulations of the meta- tarsal bones, we see a narrow strip of muscle, the transversus pedis, stretched between that of the little and that of the great toe, somewhat blended with the muscles of both, parti- cularly the adductor of the latter. The relation of the tendons in the sole, is this. At the inside, but not going farther forward than the cuneiform bone, is that of the tibialis posticus, which near the heel is quite to the inside of the other tendons. At the outer margin, is that of the peroneus brevis, crossed by that of the longus, which runs close by the bones, obliquely, across the sole. More superficially, and going forward, is the tendon of the flexor pollicis, which is to the outside of the tibialis posticus. That of the flexor digitorum, is a very little more superficial, and to its outside. On removing all these muscles, we still see three, rather beneath, than between, the metatarsal bones of the little and two adjoining toes. They are called the inferior or plantar interossei, and are inserted into the first phalanges of the toes, and the extensor tendons. The whole foot is covered by firm fascia, but, at the sole, that is so strong as to be called the plantar aponeurosis, which is distinguishable into two portions, continuous, however, with each other, an outer, or narrovv, and an inner, or broad. At the inside, between the heel and great toe, the continuation of the fascia from the dorsum is still thin, but from the heel to the little toe, it is strong and thick. This not only bounds the muscles at this margin, but covers them below, having a slight sulcus at their inner margin, where it becomes contin- uous with the main portion of the aponeurosis. This last is traced from the os calcis, forward, over the flexor brevis, toward the toes, separating, as it proceeds, into five digitations, still, however, connected, though more thinly, with each other. These, at the commencement of the toes, subdivide into two strips, one attached to each side, and flanking each flexor tendon, which passes in the angle. The origin from