228 catch the orifice, probably when aboutanincliof the bent probe is within the nostril, but this varies a little according to the antrum. The convexity of the curve, in introducing it, will rest on the lower end of the opening of the nostril, and it goes easier up the duct, if the body of the probe," be directed as much as possible toward the septum. If too much or too little bent, it cannot be carried up to the sac. The duct, alto- gether, is about three-eighths of an inch long, and an inch and three quarters of the probe, before it is bent, will require to be introduced, ere its point be fairly in the sac. The Frontal Sinuses, in the male, are often large, three quarters of an inch high, one quarter broad, and nearly one and a half long, extending along the roof of the orbit, just be- hind the supercilium. The sinus opens, by a canal, under the middle turbinated bone, near the anterior extremity, in a channel which runs obliquely downward and backward, for more than half an inch, but this, in the recent state, is often not apparently so large. The orifice may be entered, by laying a probe flat, on the outside of the upper lip, and, carrying it in that direction, it goes upward and a little backward. If the end be slightly bent forward, it will enter the orifice, but is not easily carried up into the sinus. Worms sometimes lodge there, and if this be ascertained in any case, it may be proper, if diluted chlorine gas do not reach the sinus and dislodge them, to inject by a syringe with a long pliable tube, like a probe, either oil or a strong bitter infusion. Next, the Ethmoidal cells are just to the outside of the highest, and, in part of the middle turbinated bone, situated between them, on the one hand, and the os planum in the orbit, on the other, and covered above by a plate of the frontal bone. They have been divided into anterior and posterior, the former, opening along with, or just behind, the aperture from the frontal sinus, the latter, opening farther back, and higher, in a channel under the uppermost or small- est turbinated bone. It is practicable to touch their orifices, from the opening of the nostril, with a probe, but very diffi- cult to introduce it into the cells. A moderate force is suffi-