15 lo the muscle; but if it feel thickly covered, be slightly moveable when the muscle is relaxed, but fixed when it is. put on the stretch, it is most likely below it. Acute abscess may, in consequence of bruises or injuries, take place below the trapezius, but these are rare. Even chronic abscesses are not common. It is of importance to let out the matter as soon as it is detected, for a moment’s consideration will show that extensive detachment of the muscle must be the conse- quence of delay. The matter may indeed point between the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles, but seldom before much mischief be done, perhaps the muscle detached down to the latissimus dorsi. It cannot easily raise up the scapula, for the sub-scapular region cannot, without destruction of parts, be reached from this quarter. Matter can only get into the axilla, or under the pectoral muscle, by working its way along the vessels and nerves. When pus is formed under the deep layer of muscles, it is often dependant on the state of the vertebrae, but, even if it should not, it is more likely to tend toward the intervertebral space than outwardly, and in either case we soon have manifestation of the effects of pressure on, or disease of the spinal cord. This kind of disease, however, is more frequently met with in front and under the fascia longitudinalis, than behind; and had it not been to avoid repe- tition, I might have noticed it in describing that covering. It may succeed to a disease of the bones, but may also origin- ate in the soft parts as a chronic abscess; and the matter may, with or without disease of the bone, find its way into the spinal canal, either between the atlas and dentata, or lower. The symptoms may appear and proceed without any visible mechanical change, but sometimes, when the patient com- plains of fulness in the throat, or difficulty in swallowing or breathing, a tumour, on depressing the tongue, may be discovered behind the pharynx, evidently containing matter. The pulse at first is sometimes accelerated, sometimes not; but if the spinal cord, instead of being irritated or excited, become compressed or torpid, the pulse is slow, and a sen- sation of great weight, or aching pain, like rheumatism, IS felt in the muscles of the neck and shoulder. Then