333 placed. A transverse fracture, at the very end, just above the condyle, has, at first, little or no real shortening of the bone, unless the brachieus be lacerated, and the fracture very oblique. The olecranon is drawn backward, and a little upward by the triceps, the articular extremity of the bone, rolling or bending a little backward. The brachieus is, in the same proportion, stretched over the lower end of the shaft, which projects higher than the articulating end in disloca- tion, and sometimes the arm is a little twisted. The patient is easiest when the fore-arm is semibent. If it have been allowed to hang down, the brachieus is irritated, and the articular end may be more pulled up. There is, in this fracture a resemblance to dislocation, but the distinction is easily made, by attending to the exact relation of the parts, the position of the condyles, their natural distance from the olecranon, the existence of crepitation, the facility of reduc- tion, and the readiness with which the parts are again displaced. The semibent position, and the bent splints, are the best, for a cure, with passive motion in due time. Oblique fractures, at the articulating extremity, unless they merely belong to the edge of the condyle, extend into the joint. The inner condyle stands, more off, from the shaft, than the outer, and may be knocked off, without communi- cating with the joint. The pronator teres, will tend to draw the condyle forward, more especially if the arm be supine, whilst the flexor carpi radialis, will draw it downward. If a little more of the root of the condyle at the shaft, or the shaft itself, there, be obliquely split, the sigmoid cavity is intersected, as well as the articulating surface, receiving the ulna, but that bone cannot be carried upward, owing not only to its connexion with the radius, but from there being still enough of the outer part of the shaft entire to resist it. If the arm be stretched, the brachieus may turn forward the upper end of the fractured part, but in general it is resisted by the triceps, whilst the intermuscular ligament tends also to keep the part right. The flexors and pronator, may roll the broken piece a little forward. There is no necessity for any great separation or displacement, but the part may be