463 to which the muscles are torn. The head may be placed on the upper part of the back of the acetabulum, between the inferior anterior spinous process, and the notch, the top of the cervix being level with the margin of the acetabulum, and the head resting on the gluteus minimus, or pushing it up; or, it may be carried more upward, resting on the gluteus medius, near its inferior border, which traverses, or bounds the cervix. It either goes out, so as to pass above the pyriformis, or that muscle is torn. If not torn, it must be much stretched, and its tendon may either cross the upper part of the neck, which will prevent the head from going so high as it otherwise would do, or it may go along the under surface, as that of the obturator internus does. In the former case, the neck is embraced between two tendons. If the gluteus minimus rise low, as it sometimes does, it must, if not torn, curve over the neck. The obturator externus is stretched, goes along the back of the root of the neck, and, like the others, will draw the head of the bone against the ilium. The gemelli and quadratus are stretched ; so are the iliacus, psoas, pectineus, and adductor brevis. The other adductors, the rectus, and hamstring muscles, are relaxed or shortened. It is evident, that all those muscles which are stretched in one case, may, in another, be torn ; and it is doubtful if any dislocation of this bone take place without partial or entire division of a greater or less number of muscles, especially the smaller ones behind. The round ligament is always ruptured, and the capsule must be more or less torn. It is important to remark, that the anterior part is least apt to be torn, and, in that case, is stretched, like the tendon of the psoas, across the mouth of the aceta- bulum, but more tensely, and must draw the head against the ilium, rendering reduction more difficult. It is not the muscles which are stretched, which alone resist; for those which are either little affected, or are shortened, counteract us such as the adductor longus, and magnus, glutei, and flexors of the leg. We recognise this luxation by the short- ening of the limb, accompanied by preternatural immobility. The shortening is not less than an inch and a half, some-