195 ing is excited, by attempts to swallow, and, in some, the fluid runs freely out by the wound. When the throat has suffered much by syphilis, food or fluids, from a different cause, may enter the glottis, and the patient die suddenly. Wounds of the trachea, are generally attended with divi- sion of the carotid artery, and, if the tube be cut to the end of the cartilaginous segment, the recurrent nerve is injured. The thyroid gland stretches across the upper part of the trachea, and is apt to be cut, for, it often covers the front, to the extent of three quarters of an inch, and, at the sides, it partly overlaps the carotid artery. Even if the gland escape, the vascular plexus, on the front of the tube, must be cut, and will throw out a good deal of blood. The oesophagus is at- tached to the posterior part of the trachea, which intervenes between the extremities of the cartilaginous segment, by means of pretty firm cellular substance, and, at the sides, by an ex- tension of fascia, which passes over it, to the vertebral column. It is impossible for the oesophagus to be opened by a trans- verse wound, without dividing the carotid arteries, unless the extremity of the instrument sink down in front, so as to make a stab there, whilst at the sides, it has been allowed to rise. It may thus he opened, with a curved knife, or by a direct thrust through the trachea. If the carotid escape, the branches of the inferior thyroid artery, traversing the side of the oesophagus, are those most endangered. We have to at- tend both to the state of the trachea and gullet. If the for- mer be completely divided, the lower end recedes, or sinks down, sometimes to an extent of three inches. If only its cartilaginous part be cut, the gap is seldom above an inch. Stitches have been employed to retain the ends together, but in very few instances can they be borne. Bending the head forward, not only brings the ends nearer, but prevents the lower edge of the wound, in the skin, from curling over the end of the trachea, and obstructing the breathing, for, in most instances, the patient can only breathe by the wound. In course of time, the trachea rises a little, and the side and back of the space, become again converted into part of a tube, but the front is rarely replaced, and a fistula remains. When