lOU hook round that artery, and run on, above the hyo-glossus. V’^ery often it arises, by a common trunk, with the facial, at various heights, and this trunk ascends sometimes quite par- allel to the external carotid, sometimes at a very considerable angle. It passes on the constrictor medius, under the digas- tric, and divides, pei’haps when covered by it, into the facial, which winds up toward the inside and fore part of the angle of the jaw, and the lingual, which rather descends a little, and then passes forward and upward. In its regular course, the Lingual artery runs across the constrictor to the horn of 'the os hyoides. It passes within the digastric muscle there, and immediately meets the posterior margin of the hyo-glossus, within which it enters, running forward and upward till it appear at the anterior margin, or sometimes from between two fasciculi of that muscle. In its course along the constrictor to the hyo-glossus, it crosses the superior laryngeal nerve, which passes downward and forward. It soon meets with the ninth, which, descending obliquely, must at first be always, in the regular conformation, rather higher than the artery in this district. Very often the nerve crosses the external carotid just as the lingual artery is given olf. The nerve crosses the origin of the artery in that case, and is more superficial; then, it immediately gets a little higher, or it runs on along the horn, quite in contact with the upper margin of the artery, or perhaps overlapping it a little. In some cases, it even, for a short distance, covers or hides the artery. In those cases where the lingual and facial arteries come off by a common trunk, ascending perhaps to the digastric, before the former be sent off, that artery must be higher than the nerve. The nerve runs on over the hyo-glossus, but the artery goes, imme- diately, within it. The only portion, then, of the artery which can be exposed, without dividing that muscle, is that which runs or curls over the constrictor. As the hyo-glossus arises so far back as the end of, the horn, the space is sometimes little more than the eighth, generally not above a quarter of an inch. If the carotid be full, it is sometimes so near the marc^in of the hyo-glossus that the lingual artery, to be seen, requires the carotid to be pressed back, and the margin of the