139 by the trapezius, which it perforates near the median line, and ramifies on the occipito-frontalis muscle. The trunk of the occipital artery is nearer the ear, than either this or the little occipital nerve, running between the latter and the auricular. But sometimes a large subdivision of the artery passes back- ward and upward over the nerve. The nerve is at first more superficial than the arteries, and the veins still more so than the nerve at the base of the skull; but as the nerve mounts up, it generally becomes deeper, and many branches go below the vessels. It is a nerve of sensation. It is exposed, and may be divided, by cutting the scalp down to the bone, along the track of the transverse occipital ridge, beginning at the median line, and going about half an inch in length outward. The second cervical nerve divides also into two branches. The posterior gives off many small twigs for the muscles; but one tolerably large, ascends deeply among them, gets on the surface of the complexus, and then pierces the ti-apezius to become subcutaneous near the head. The anterior branch is the most important, and gives off several nerves. Immediately after coming out from between the rectus major and scalenus, it sends olF a large branch, which subdivides into the Little Occipital and the Auricular. The former, called also the Mas- toidienne, passes first some way downward, and then upward and backward, between the mastoid muscle and levator sca- pulae. It then gets on the splenius, on which it runs till it reach the head, when it comes out between the margin of the implantation of the trapezius and mastoid muscles, or sometimes through a perforation in the former, and ramifies on the scalp, passing first over the veins, and then below them. It comes off about an inch and three quarters below the point of the mastoid process, more or less, according to the length of the neck. In its course up, it is hid for about an inch and a half by the mastoid muscle, being overlapped by its poste- rior margin, and this readily directs us to the nerve. Whilst covered by the mastoid, it forms a connexion with the acces- sory, for by turning forward that muscle, we see near its posterior margin, a broad, flat, irregular nervous substance or plexus, formed by the two nerves, from the upper part of which,