i<69 of an inch lower than its upper surface, or the upper margin of the acetabulum. The length of the neck, from the root of the trochanter, above, to the rim of the head, is an inch ; at the back, it is a quarter more. The neck, within the capsule, is one inch and a quarter thick, and one and a half from above to below. If, therefore, the bone be not crushed, the one surface cannot get quite beyond the other, unless the shaft rise an inch and a half, or the portion attached to the head be turned much down. From the top of the root of the trochanter, down to the under surface of tlie root of the cervix, is two inches; hence, the shaft must be more elevated in fracture without the capsule, in order to get beyond the surface belonging to the neck. The cervix stands obliquely up from the shaft, and must naturally keep the latter distant from the acetabulum ; but, if broken, that may not only come nearer, but rise higher. From all this, it follows, that, if we get rid of the whole neck, and bring the shaft in contact with the head, at the acetabulum, the elevation of the bone should be from five-eighths to three- quarters of an inch ; if carried beyond the head, there is no definite limitation. The capsule must, if entire, check the elevation. It is difficult to press, in that case, the trochanter more than a quarter of an inch higher; but to what greater extent the capsule may be stretched by falls, or great force, it is impossible to say. If the upper part be torn, we can press the bone up half an inch. If the under part be also lacerated, it may be pressed up nearly an inch. To what extent the capsule may be stretched, by great force, in the living subject, without laceration, is not decided. It is further evident, that, when the shaft rises, if the root of the neck be in contact with the portion attached to the head, it must turn it upward; and, therefore, if union take place, the head stands out more directly from the shaft; its obliquity is diminished. The neck of the bone is affected by age. Until fifty and upwards, the cancelli are compact, and com- paratively small; the shell of the bone, at the cervix, is hard and strong, particularly at the under part, where it resists, like an arch. But, at advanced age, the cancelli become