480 often, the mouth of the canal is well defined. At the liinated margin of the triceps magnus, both of these layers pass oft’ more or less distinctly with the artery, as it winds toward the ham, but are presently lost in its proper sheath. A thin continuation goes down between the vastus and tendon of the triceps, to the condyle; and this thin septum is perforated, or lunated, as we have seen, at its upper part, forming with the lunated border of the triceps an aperture, through whicli the artery passes, and from which it carries the fascial prolongation, just described, in the same way as the cord carries with it a prolongation of the fascia transversalis. Sometimes the perforation is in the tendinous implantation of the muscle, which, in that case, is continued farther down the bone. The vein passes down, at first, by the outer margin of the pectineus, and inside of the artery, though somotimes, even then, it is partly covered by it. Usually, it continues by the pubal side of the artery, for from an inch and three-quarters, to two inches. It then winds backward and outward, so as to be quite behind the artery, at from three inches to near four. It seems to be a little earlier in females than males. This relation continues to the ham. The Anterior Crural nerve passes out by the ilial margin of the artery, and gives off some branches connected with it. Two, or sometimes three, cross the artery, to be expended in the adductors. The highest of these muscular nerves begins to cross at a distance from Poupart’s ligament, varying in dilferent instances; sometimes at an inch, oftener at fully two. It may cross so abruptly as to be soon on the other side; but more frequently its course is oblique, so that it is on the face of the artery for between two and three inches. The lowest often crosses it near six inches below the ligament; another pretty large muscular nerve, going to the vastus, runs down, like the saphenus, by the outer margin of the artery, but is at no time on its face. The Sartorial! nerve comes off also from the anterior crural, and begins to cross the artery-perhaps an inch and a half below the ligament. It then comes more forward, and