2^8 inch, parallel to the superciliary ridge, and just "above the foramen or notch, which is, almost, in a line, directly, up from the outer margin of the canine tooth, or, about a finger’s breadth, outward, from the middle of the root of the nose. The nerve is as large as a pack thread. Division of the supra, and infra-trochlearis nerves, is made more inward, near the root of the nose, under the ridge. The Second branch of the fifth pair, passes out by the foramen rotundum, which is just behind the under end of the sphenoid slit, and before the root of the pterygoid process, in a line, directly, up from the end of the alveolar ridge of the upper jaw, and about an inch and three quarters, above the edge of the socket of the last tooth. It is hid by the maxillary bone, and just behind the posterior end of the spheno-maxil- lary fissure, so, that a probe introduced from the inside of the cranium, through the hole, naturally passes on to the orbit. There is a hollow, or sinus, formed immediately before the hole, between the outer and back part, of the orbitar process of the maxillary bone, and the junction of the root of the pterygoid process, and great wing of the sphenoid bone. There, the nerve lies, deep, just above the spheno-maxillary ganglion. The spot, where it issues from the cranium, is about an inch and five-eighths back, from that part of the margin of the orbit, which is below the inferior punctum, and about one and a quarter deep, or transverse, from the cheek bone. The nerve, speedily, enters the spheno-maxillary fissui'e, so, that a very small portion, only, can be seen in a deep dissection. Here, however, it receives two twigs from the ganglion, and gives off two branches. First, the orbitar, runs directly to the oi’bit, by the spheno-maxillary slit, and, immediately, divides into two branches, one of which, the temporal, passes directly from the orbit, by a small groove in the wing, situated exactly at the outside of the slit. It soon plunges into the temporal muscle, and becomes super- ficial. The other, or the malar, communicates with a twig from the lachrymal nerve, and passes out, on the cheek, by the malar hole, which is situated about a quarter of an inch below the edge of the orbit, in a line almost