3i<5 than it ought to be. The outer condyle forms a marked projection, and tlie integuments there, are sometimes so stretched, that they inflame and ulcei’ate. The fore-arm is prone, may be extended, and the mobility, laterally, is preternatural. In a case, I have just examined, the outer margin of the coronoid, or articulating surface, is to the inside of the trochlear ridge, and the surface, itself, is between that, and the peak of the condyle. The articulating surface of the radius, is placed, where that of the ulna ought to have been, leaving the face of the outer condyle unoccupied. The upper part of the radius, and its head were dead, and surrounded by foetid pus, part of the coronoid process absorbed, the outer condyle was soft, and, ossific matter had been thrown out, in more parts than one. The health had suffered so much, that amputation was performed. Much more frequently, what is called lateral dislocation, is, merely, a modification of the displacement backward. It is generally inward. The outer margin, and surface, of the coronoid process, is placed at the very top of the back of the inner surface of the trochlea. Its front rests on the lower part of the back of the inner condyle, and scarcely any of the face extends inward beyond that, so that the breadth of the joint is not increased. The olecranon is higher, and farther back than usual. The inner side of the head of the radius, is on the outer surface of the projection of the trochlea. Its outer side, is a little more outward than the external ridge of the trochlea. The head is felt farther back than it ought to be, just below the sigmoid cavity, and the face of the external condyle, so far as the radius is con- cerned, is bare. The inner ridge of the trochlea sinks, behind, between the radius and ulna. The fore-arm is semibent, and, in general, slightly prone. The external appearance is much the same, then, with that of the com- mon dislocation, from which it is only to be distinguished, by carefully observing the relation of the parts. One obstacle to reduction arises from the outer surface of the coronoid process, being applied to the inner surface of the trochlea, which resists its being drawn outward to its place. The