79 this part of the neck. A small deep-seated nerve comes off, high, from the upper ganglion of the sympathetic, and runs down nearly parallel to, and generally to the inside, of the main trunk of the sympathetic, behind the artery, and by its outer margin. It is the superficialis cordis. A larger and more superficial nerve, lies also first behind, and then to the tracheal side of the artery, close by the tra- chea, and not immediately connected with the artery. It is the recurrent. The descendens noni runs down in front of the carotid by the inner margin of the jugular vein, adherent to the sheath, if not involved in its substance. Besides these nerves, small branches, from the sympathetic, encircle the carotid artery, subdividing on it very minutely, ^ so as to form almost a distinct coat. I will give presently a more particular account of the nerves of the neck. Exterior to the sheath is a chain of small glands, through which pass lymphatics, coming more particularly from tlie deeper parts of the head and face. They are found both before and behind the vessels, but are most numerous at the outer margin of the jugular vein, or partly on it. These, called glandulae con- catinatas, are not to be felt externally in health, and even in dissection are not prominent objects of attention. When I notice the lymphatic vessels on the right side, it will appear that there is no danger, to their trunk, in tying the carotid on that side, but on the left, the thoracic duct mounts up behind the carotid. This is very thin, and, when filled, is about a quarter of an inch in diameter. It ascends up from the sterno-clavicular articulation, with its inner margin parallel to that of the carotid, and mounts to about an inch, sometimes an inch and a quarter, above the clavicle. It then curves outward, so as to get to the outer margin, about an eighth of an inch lower, traverses the posterior surface of the jugular vein, and bending down by its outer margin to the angle formed by its junction with the subclavian, and there the duct enters, at about an inch and an eighth outward from the sterno-clavicular articulation, and nearly on a line with the lower margin of the clavicle. A deep cervical vein, often comes down by the outside of the jugular, and enters the