180 required, in the separation of the tumour, to divide the deep muscular branches, or to injure any of the nerves. A tumour extending from the neck, in any degree under the clavicle, so as to be impacted there, or connected with swelled glands under the pectoral muscle, ought not to be touched. But if it only rest, as it were, on the confines of the artery, not extending deeply behind the bone, and if so loose that it can be pressed, or drawn, up so far as to lose its pulsating motion, if it had pulsated, we may, if other circumstances be favour- able, undertake its removal. Enlarged glands are often met with here, and from their connexion with the nerves, produce both pain and numbness. In cases of a strumous nature, I have known blisters and iodine do good; and if tbe pain continued after the tumour * had suppurated, or been absorbed, an issue on the lower cer- vical vertebrae has been useful, if any pain had been felt there on pressure. Sometimes many glands are enlarged here, either separately, or almost agglutinated. They extend under the trapezius muscle, forming an undefined swelling, owing to the thickness of the muscle, and sometimes they press for- ward the mastoid, and a projecting tumour, is seen between these two muscles, or extending forward under the mastoid. Such glandular swellings are generally strumous, and end slowly in suppuration. But firmer and more intractable tumours may form, and require to be extirpated, if at all moveable, and not intimately connected with the axillary plexus, which may be known by the mobility, and by the effect, of the attempt to move them, on the nerves. If firmly attached to the deep muscles of the neck, such as the scaleni and levator scapulce, if pain and numbness be produced in the shoulder or arm, by trying to move them; and, par- ticularly, if they extend forward under the mastoid muscle, so as to be, in all probability, connected with the jugular vein, we should not touch them. If the state be more favourable, the operation may be undertaken, and the tumour, though deep, exposed by drawing forward the mastoid muscle, or cut- ting only a little of the outer part of the clavicular origin, and then dividing part of the clavicular portion of the trapezius.