51 the effect on the breathing; but the principal cause of the difficulty of breathing, as well as of swallowing, is from the individual parts below the tumour being matted together. The recurrent nerve is involved in the diseased part, the muscles lose their properties, and at last one hard and solid mass presses on the gullet. The muscles which are situated above the os hyoides are very important in their connexions and relations. Tliey fill the space from the chin to the angle of the jaw, being placed in layers on one another, and shut out, from the mouth and pharynx, by the mucous membrane, the root of the tongue, and the constrictors of the pharynx. Tlie digastric is, in many respects, the one which claims our first notice. Neither the anterior nor posterior portions are very oblique in their course. The middle or tendinous portion is laid along the upper surface of the side of the os hyoides, winding, on the constrictor, along the side of the root of the tongue : the end of the posterior belly sweeps past the situ- ation of the side of the epiglottis. The direction of the two bellies must vary according to the position of the head. If the head be level, the posterior belly runs, from the mastoid fossa, forward, and a very little downward, forming a very small angle with the back part of the jaw-blade, or indeed runs forward almost parallel to it. When the head is bent back, it runs in the course of a line drawn from the front of the extremity of the mastoid process, to the fore part of the os hyoides. llie anterior belly, if traced from the chin, goes almost directly backward, if the head be level; more or less downward, according as the chin is raised. It is flat and broad, so that those of the two sides uniting in the middle by a cellular line, form a sheet tolerably thick, and, in subjects having large muscles, extending above an inch from the middle of the chin, or even reaching to two inches and a half from the angle of the jaw. In more slender subjects, the belly is not an inch broad. 1. he two keep in contact for three quarters of an inch back from the inside of the chin, and then divaricate a very little, showing, near the os hyoides, a little of the mylo-hyoidei between them, or of the genio-hyoidei, should the mylo-