2.51 notch. In either case, it gets deeply covered by the tem- poral muscle, and mounts nearly half an inch before the root of the zygoma, pretty closely on the bone. Tlie maxillary, as it is skirting the notch, gives branches to the pterygoid muscle, and one, the masseterica, passes out at the margin of the notch, into the masseter muscle. This not only ramifies in it, but anastomoses with the super- ficial arteries. Farther forward in the fossa, it gives off the buccinator artery, which is as large as a small stocking wire, and runs downward and forward, with the buccinator nerve, between a part of the internal pterygoid and the jaw, to get to the buccinator muscle. It is distributed on the muscle, all the way to the side of the mouth, and also to the zygoma- ticus, and anastomoses with the other facial arteries. Some internal twigs, go to the membrane of the cheek. Then, farther forward, on clearing the external pterygoid muscle, is given off the anterior deep temporal. It mounts, deep in the temporal muscle, close by the bone, behind the superior orbitar process of the malar bone, or at the back of the outer side of the orbit. It also supplies the neighbour- ing parts. Next, there comes off the alveolar artery, as the maxillary is mounting on the back of the tuberosity of the jaw bone, and fully an inch above the margin of the gum, at the last tooth. It winds downward and forward, under the junction of the maxilla and malar bone, running closely along the front of the alveolar process, all the way to the fossa canina, termi- nating in the upper lip, supplying in its course, the alveoli and teeth, and sending up branches, to anastomose on the face of the bone, with the infra-orbitar. It also gives branches to the antrum. It is an artery interested in tumour of the gum, and bone, and antrum, and in the removal of the fungous tumour, at this part, or from the an- trum, it must be cut, but seldom gives great trouble, the hajmorrhage being, generally, stopped by pressure with lint, oi lint dipt in an astringent or escharotic substance. Sometimes before this, but generally very near the same place, and at the same height, the superior palatine artery,