406 oftener, as it descends, a little more inward. It adheres firmly to it. It is crossed by the ureter, but this is easily raised. It is about the same distance from the spine of the ilium as the common iliac, but not so high; it is more directly in, and is touched by pressing the finger down at the sacro-iliac symphysis. The trunk of the artery itself is not an inch long, for, within that distance from its origin, it subdivides into its branches. The steps of the operation are the same as for the common iliac artery, only the incision may require to be a very little longer, and we direct the finger rather lower, seek- ing for the front of the sacro-iliac symphysis. We have not an inch of the artery to work on ; and it adheres to the face of the external iliac vein, and still more firmly to the internal, which lies to its outside, or is in a manner covered by it. In this and the former operation, we discover and distinguish the artery both by its feel and pulsation, and also by knowing its situation. No one, then, would attempt to tie this artery ill preference to the common iliac, were it not that in the latter case the supply of blood to the thigh and leg is more curtailed. Long slender fingers, with a dexterity in using blunt instruments in a deep cavity, are requisites, first, for the safe insulation of the artery, and then for conveying the liga- ture round it and tying it;—much is to be done by digital work.* There are some large arteries exterior to the pelvis, which, if punctured so as to produce false aneurism, cannot be exposed without an operation, so severe, that in general it is better to tie the internal iliac. But in open or lacerated wounds it may be requisite to secure them where they are divided; and this may be facilitated by knowing their relations. Should, how- ever, an incision be required, I have only to remark that this is to be made in the direction of the fibres of the gluteus maximus, and if we can separate between two fasciculi of the muscle so much the better, for it is very vascular. The course is obliquely downward and forward. • Some prefer opening at once the abdominal cavity, considering that this is less dangerous than tlic extensive operation of the peritomeura, necessary in the other operation.