400 The sacral plexus is formed by the three uppermost sacral nerves, and the lumbo-sacral, which is just the fifth lumbar nerve, with an addition from the fourth, and which descends in front of the sacro-iliac symphysis, overhung by the psoas. The nerves forming this plexus are more united into a mass than the lumbar. It is nearly an inch broad, and about an inch and a quarter long. The sacral nerves come off high, from the lumbar region, for, if we open the canal there, and slit up the sheath, we find numerous cords running down in a bundle ; hence, in disease of the sacral nerves we apply issues, or other remedies, over the lumbar vertebrae. From the lumbo-sacral, or sometimes the fourth lumbar, comes off the superior gluteal, which passes out above the pyriformis, to be distributed to the glutei muscles. The largest portion of the plexus, or its continuation, and in the composition of which all the nerves going to it are interested, passes out beneath the pyriformis, as the great sciatic nerve. From the same mass, or, more particularly from the first sacral, comes off the inferior gluteal nerve, which passes with the ischiatic nerve, but by its inner side. It is distributed to the gluteal muscles, and then down the thigh, and to the integu- ment, forming cutaneous nerves. It is therefore likewise named, the little sciatic nerve, and in that case, the inferior gluteal, strictly so called, is described as one of its branches. Fi’om the general mass, or sometimes evidently from the first and second, or second and third sacral, is given off the pudic. A branch from the plexus, follows also nearly the same course with the pudic, but passes out anterior to it, then, turns into the pelvis and is distributed in the obturator internus. The third sacral nerve not only goes to the plexus, but also sends a branch downward and outward to join the fourth, and the united nerve passes between the levator and coccygeus, and then out beneath the lower ligament, and across to the anus, and cellular substance round it. It is the hemorrhoidal nerve, and it is accompanied by a hemorrhoidal branch from the pudic artery. The fifth sacral nerve goes to the coccygeus, &c. The pelvic viscera derive branches from the plexus. The lumbar ganglia lie on the vertebrse at the inner margin