40 and deep jaws, it may be seven inches. Tlie average of four trials, gave me six inches and three-tenths. Tliese measure- ments were taken with the head erect, but if bent back, as in introducing the probang, the distance is nearly half an inch less. Five inches and three quarters is not an unusual length in that position. The distance of the cardiac orifice of the stomach from the front teeth of the upper jaw, is also variable in the adult, according to the length of the spine. It is from thirteen inches to full fifteen and a half. The tube of the stomach-pump is twenty-two inches long. The contraction of the pharynx from its structure, must be in the lateral and pos- terior parts. But as man, as well as quadrupeds, has the power of swallowing liquids contrary to the power of gravity, it is evident, that this must be, by the contraction of the fibres from above downward; and it will be found, that although the pharynx seems to rise and receive the morsel, this proceeds from the contraction of the fibres on the morsel, which must necessarily raise the cartilages; and thereby, indeed, the uncontracted part of the pharynx is drawn up over the solid or fluid; but contraction always, as the cause, precedes ele- vation. As the constrictors only form a segment of a tube, it is very rare to meet with spasmodic tightening in the pha- rynx, or with what may properly be called permanent stric- ture; when there is obstruction to the deglutition there, it is generally owing to tumours springing from the laryngeal carti- lages, or imbedded in the substance of the pharynx, or varicose . veins behind it, or polypous excrescences within it. Many deep seated glands exist, and when these swell, dysphagia may be produced, even before there be much tumour externally; but in most instances, the gland becomes very large, before great impediment to deglutition be occasioned. It is rare to meet with a simple tightening of the tube, by a narrow band of induration, and still less to find the stricture confined to a mere fold of the mucous membrane. Generally, the contrac- tion is at least a quarter of an inch broad, sometimes much more; and most frequently both the mucous and muscidar coats are involved in the induration. This spot, however, may be a great deal less in diameter than natural, that is to