448 any projection or curling up which may have existed at the aperture. A director is now to be inserted between tlie sac and the tight spot, but neither far nor forcibly, lest we perforate the peritonaeum. On this, a little of the margin is to be divided, upward, and then the director may, if neces- sai’}', be introduced with more ease, and, consequently, more safety, a little farther, or we try to move a little the constricted margin by the end of the finger, or on the nail, and cautiously cut it from its surface inwards, or, we insert a narrow probe- pointed bistoury a little way, and cut toward the surface. We may still fail to reduce the hernia, and yet the neck of the sac may not be permanently contracted. A very narrow filament of fascia, or muscle, may still be undivided, and act like a thread. A smooth probe,‘carried closely along the surface of the sac, will ascertain this; foi*, in this w'ay, it is either stopt or enters under it, and is felt to be bound by it. If we do not keep close by the neck of the sac, we pass exterior to the band, along the tract of our former division. If, on the other hand, we press too much on the sac, and especially if we give the probe a wrong direction, we pene- trate the sac. This plan has particularly been advised in large herniae; but it is applicable to all. It has also been practised in irreducible herniae, as we relieve the stricture, and may get the more recent protrusion returned. In hernia confined to the inguinal canal, the external in- cision extends from the superior to the inferior aperture. ^The tendon of the external oblique, but not its ring, is to be divided, and the deeper muscles drawn up, or, if requisite, partially cut, after which we relieve the stricture, in one or other of the ways just described. In the variety of inguinal hernia, called direct, or ventro- inguinal, the peritonaeum is not protruded by the superior aperture and along the canal, but directly above the ring, passing down under the margin of the internal oblique, and then out by the ring, along with the cord. It is clear then, that the sac must either pass through a separation of the fibres of the tendon of the transversalis, and fascia transver-