23 margin of the os liyoides, the head not being bent back, but the jaw blade being horizontal, must vary according to the length of the neck, and is generally greater in the female than the male. In the former it is usually about four inches and three quarters, sometimes above five inches. In a male of ordinary size, about three inches and seven-eighths, some- times only three inches and a half. From the sternum to the fossa, in the front of the thyroid cartilage, is in the female often four inches and a quarter; but if the neck be short, it may be little more than three inches and a half. In the male three inches and a quarter, but sometimes under three inches. To the top of the side of the cartilage is about half an inch more. To the under margin of the cartilage is two inches and three quarters. From the sternum to the top of the cricoid cartilage, is in the female full three inches; to the under margin, about two inches and three quarters. This is, of course, the extent of the trachea from the cartilage to the sternum, but in some females it is three inches, in others who are smaller and have the neck shorter, it is not more than two inches, and in short necked males only one. All these distances must vary accord- ing to the length of the neck; but we can, when it is desirable, ascertain, unless the parts be much swollen, the exact distance in any individual. On examining the insulated larynx and base of the tongue, we see the top of the air-passage to be defended behind by two moveable cartilages, which, from the obliquity of the upper margin of the cricoid cartilage, to which they are articulated, are directed forward as well as upward. This gives a sloping appearance to the back part of the larynx, and the length of this part, from the top of the arytenoid to the bottom of the cricoid cartilage, is above an inch and a half. In the dead or quiescent state, the point of the arytenoid cartilage does not mount more than an eighth of an inch above the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, and extends to three-eighths of an inch forward from the back of the cartilage, at the root of its upper horn. It is about three-eighths of an inch be- hind the posterior surface of the epiglottis, and tlie points of the opposite cartilages are about the same distance from one