113 ilinate appetite, but no food is then digested. Bleeding is the remedy to be depended on in the first attack, and must be repeated in urgent cases, on the renewal of these paroxysms. The bowels are to be kept open, and if the menses have been obstructed, suitable remedies must be employed. Copper as a tonic, or as exciting some specific property, is useful. Should the disease have gone the length of producing palsy, nothing does so much good as a caustic issue, applied higher or lower on the spine, according to the parts affected. The condition of the lumbar portion of the medulla sometimes pro- duces pain in the head and the other symptoms, but the paralytic affection or painful sensation is generally confined to the lower extremities. Whether this always proceeds from the state of the vessels, or often from direct affections of the medulla oblongata, or spi- nalis, it is difficult to say. But it may attack any part of the medulla, and often shifts from one place to another. Some- times one or two particular vertebrae, may be tender on pres- sure, or the whole spine may be tender, or different parts alternately; but often there is no uneasiness whatever felt. The bones are never affected, but the muscles may, and thereby curvature, particularly of the neck, be produced. In this case, the extensors become paralytic, and the head falls for- ward; but it can for a long time be raised, and kept up by assistance. From the state of the nerves, the action of the heart is affected, and is sometimes irregular; the breathing is laborious, the arms, but not the legs, are numb or paralytic, and sometimes the speech is impaired. A caustic issue, if applied early to the nape of the neck, cures this; and if the head be supported by a proper contrivance, the muscles regain their power, and the support is no longer necessary. When the disease is lower, the inferior extremities are affected, and become at last useless. The abdominal muscles are painful; the pulse is frequent and irregular, and the patient sinks. If any spot be decidedly tender, we are guided in applying the caustic, but if not, we must judge from the nerves affected. Pain and tightness across the diaphragm, and very irregular action of the heart, as if there were organic disease, accompa- I