introduced over the tongue, to the top of the pharynx, and the finger placed on the back of' the point, so as to bend it down fairly into the pharynx. If tliis be not done, it is apt to press too much on the back of that tube, and do injury. It will also pass more easily, if the mouth be well opened, and the head bent somewhat back. If the probang pass freely down, there is no stricture. If it stop, and after pausing a moment, do not go on, there is an obstruction. Before with- drawing the instrument, we should mark that part which cor- responds to the front teeth of the upper jaw, which, when measured to the point, will ascertain the situation of the stric- ture. This may be in any part of the oesophagus, but it is usually at its very top, where it joins the pharynx, namely, at the cricoid cartilage; and the measurement to this part, we have seenj varies according to the length of the neck, being in the adult less than six inches; we next try a pro- bang with a small rounded end, uncovered with sponge, which being smaller, generally passes with more or less facility. Tliis is a hopeless disease, but as the symptoms are generally aggravated by exposure to cold, irregularities of diet, neglect of the bowels, &c., some good may be done by strictly avoiding all such injurious causes. No internal medi- cine has any effect. Mercury, invariably, I tliink, does harm, unless perhaps foi* a short time at first, if it have improved the action of the chylopoietic organs. A course of mercury is injurious. Conium, and other medicines of the same nature, are, to say the best of them, useless. Iodine, so long as it acts as a tonic, and promotes digestion, may be given. The occa- sional use of the probang or bougie, mechanically to dilate the stricture, has been often resorted to, but with very little bene- fit, for the effect, if any, must be temporary. Still, if this do not irritate, we may thus keep the passage longer open. The introduction of a flexible tube from the nostril, is more likely to be serviceable, if it be retained for some time, whilst it also enables us to inject fluids into the stomach. But we must not forget that it may excite the part, and cause more swelling or suppuration; for this stricture is not a simple contraction of healthy structure, but is a diseased organization. This view