184 by the omo-hyoideus. The posterior margin of the hyo- thyioideiis. then, does not reach to the ligamentous border of the membrane, or to the constrictor, but a part of the mem- brane intervenes. This is covered partly by the omo-hyoideus, and partly by a firm continuation of the deep fascia. The mastoid muscle, here, overlaps the back part of the space so much, as to meet the side of the sterno-hyoideus, either com- pletely, or by the intervention of a short portion of firm fascia, by which also it is bound down to the omo-hyoideus, which lies under it. Thus no part of the space is deficient in mus- cular covering, whilst over the whole is spread a strong platysma, with a layer of deeper fascia under it. A small lymphatic gland, sometimes not larger than a mustard seed, and of a blackish colour, lies behind, or to the outside of the hyo-thyroid ligament. When this gland swells, it generally protrudes at the margin of the mastoid muscle, covered by the platysmal fascia. But sometimes it extends forward under the different hyo-thyroid muscles, and upward on the surface of the constrictor medius, or inward behind the margin of the hyo-thyroid muscle. In this case, only a small part of the tumour may be external, the rest pressing inward the hyo-thyroid membrane, the pharynx, and perhaps the epi- glottis. The finger introduced into the mouth can feel the tumour at the root of the tongue, and also at the side of the pharynx. Much distress is produced both by the difficulty of swallowing and of breathing; and if there be any tendency to pulmonary disease, that is apt to be brought into action. This, if it do not suppurate, is always sooner or later a fatal tumour, and therefore it should early be extirpated; and this may generally be easily done, as the deep connexions of the tumour are seldom firm; indeed, in several cases, the tumour has been found enclosed in a capsule. The structure is sometimes like indurated gland, sometimes softer, and of a grayish colour, and occasionally part of the contents of the capsule is thin and albumenous. Such tumours may not only penetrate deeply toward the pharynx, but also extend up toward the ear, or over the jaw and cheek, and down on the neck; and from the firmness of the fascia which covers