497 The fibula does not enter into the articulation. The articu- lating surfaces of it and of the tibia are covered by cartilage, and a synovial membrane is spread over this, as in other joints. A fibrous capsule secures the whole, and over this is the origin of the peroneus longus, and, in front, that of the extensor digitorum. The fibula may be displaced backward by vio- lence, but generally from relaxation of the capsule. It is easily replaced, but requires afterwards a firm compress and bandage. In the greatest degree of flexion, the capsule, at the sides, and the lateral ligaments, are somewhat stretched, and so are the crucial ligaments, and synovial duplicatures within. The patella is drawn down more against the intercondyloid fossa, the surface of the condyle is removed from that of the tibia, excepting the back, or what, in standing, would be the ascending part. This rests on the posterior part of the semilunar car- tilages. If the capsule be removed, or what is the same, much relaxed, we can roll the tibia outward, so that the external condyle is carried forward on its surface. In diseased, or contracted joint, this is the state, and occasionally the outer part of the head of the tibia expands forward to accommodate itself to the projecting condyle. In greater degrees of disease, the tibia is drawn more backward, and the condyles project more, and even expand somewhat, so that a species of luxation is produced. Complete dislocation of the tibia is not common, but when it does occur, I believe it is most frequently compound. When complete, it is usually backward, and a distinction has been made according as the tibia has been acted on, by the violence, pressing it back, or the femur, pressing it forward. In the former case, the limb is described as bent, and ex- tension impossible; in the latter, it is straight, and flexion is impossible. This, however, still requires confirmation. There can be no complete displacement, without extensive laceration of the capsule, and most likely of the ligaments. If the dislocation be backward, the ligamentum posticum, and the origin of the popliteus must be torn. A part of the capsule must be lacerated, generally, the lateral ligaments, ti. 2 K