118 subclavian artery when it is to be tied, and thus that artery is sometimes skirted in front by the supra-scapular, which is also partly connected to the subclavian muscle by cellullar sub- stance. It presently gets alongside of the supra-scapular nerve, the outermost of the axillary plexus, arising from the fourth, and accompanies it to the notch. The nerve enters under the ligament, the artery generally over it. Both pass on under the acromion, and cross the edge of the spine of the bone to get to the infra-spinal region of the scapula, but both give off first a division for the supra-spinal fossa. This is distributed here, and anastomoses with the posterior scapular artery, whilst the infra-spinal division anastomoses on the bone with the infra-scapular artery. Now, the destination of this artery is plain, it goes to the notch in the upper costa, and it is the upper artery of the scapula. But it may not arise from the thyroid. There is, indeed, seldom wanting a transversalis humeri, but it may be a small branch going scarcely to the acromial end of the clavicle. In this case, the Supei'ior scapular comes off directly from the Subclavian, and runs in the outward course described, or it is given off from the Posterior scapular, when it passes above the superior costa, and, indeed, there always is given off here a branch, if not to supply the place of the superior artery, at least to anastomose with it. When the Supra-scapular artery arises from the subclavian, it is generally immediately after it comes out fi’om between the scaleni. It passes through the plexus of nerves, some below, others above it. It arches a little way up, so as to get half an inch above the clavicle, then turns down over the levator, covered by the trapezius, and about two inches from the acromion, is level with the under margin of the clavicle, and about an inch back from it. This may be the distribution on one side, however, whilst on the other, the main trunk of the artery may mount up within the levator to the neck, the scapula receiving little from this vessel. The Superior artery may also arise from the Axillary artery, and pass between the nerves, the two uppermost before, the rest behind it, to its destination. In its course, this artery gives