383. touching the fungus with nitrate of silver, and using mode- rate pressure; and if the nail be detaching itself, the separa- tion may be sometimes hastened by scissors, but this is seldom necessary. Matter forming under the nail, which is still so adherent as to confine it, may be let out by scraping tlie nail, so as to get cautiously through it. If it find its way out by the edge, a fungous excrescence is apt to form, kept up by the nail, which ought to be pared, and the fungus touched with nitrate of silver. If the disease spread, to the neighbouring phalanges, incisions should be early made. But such extensive disease generally begins deep, in the fibrous aponeurosis of the tendon, on the last phalanx, or very often it begins in the sheath of the tendon, on the middle phalanx, where the pain is severe, though the swelling may be at first comparatively little. The inflammation spreads along the aponeurosis, so that the hand, wrist, and forearm, swell, and become very tense, as if much matter were con- tained, though, for a time, there be only a little bloody and glary fluid. In some cases, the finger swells, even more than the hand, or, the swelling of the hand subsiding, that of the finger remains. The degree of fever, and the rapidity, as well as extent, of the disease, will greatly depend on the state of the constitution. Early and free incisions are to be employed, and as the sheath of the flexor tendon, is often dis- tended, that must be laid open, whereby glary fluid is eva- cuated. Later, pus is obtained, and if the swelling be exten- sive, we must open the aponeurosis, perhaps in more places than one, and even above the wrist. When the disease begins in the periosteum, the pain is severe, but there is said to be little swelling, which is held as a diagnostic mark. This, however, is not always the case, and such never can be long so, for the superjacent part must, sooner or later, parti- cipate. The periosteum is early raised, or detached, and the bone dies. In no species, is a deep and free incision, to the very bone itself, more useful or morenecessary. These different degiees may be produced by very slight causes, a prick with a pin, or inadvertent, sliglit, laceration of the skin, at the side of the nail, the insinuation of irritating substances under the