530 drawn inward, and tlie heads separated, by going through tliat line of cellular substance which connects them, till about three inches below their origin. It is also generally neces- sary to divide a small part of the muscular union itself. A vein from the saphena minor dips clown here to join the pop- liteal, and requires attention. Drawing, now, the heads in opposite directions, the nerve is seen first, and it gives off, here, muscular branches, which it is not possible always to save. It covers the vessels, or lies a little to the outside, and is to be drawn outward. Two veins are now exposed, which cover the artery. These are to be separated, and drawn to opposite sides, unless in any particular case, it be found easier to carry them both in the same direction. Sometimes the union is very lax, so that the separation is easily made. In other cases, it is firm, and great care is required not to injure the vein. The artery lies deepest of all, on the popliteus muscle. The tendon of the plantaris is to the outside of the nerve, and is to be drawn outward with it; or, if the belly be large, it may require, for room, to be pressed aside. Some muscular nerves, not very regular, may suffer division, for it is not always possible to turn them out of the way. Arte- rial branches are also divided, and should be tied before pro- ceeding farther. In this operation, the artery is tied before giving off the antica. To tie it lower, would require the in- cision to be commenced lower, and more of the gastrocnemius to be cut. It is evident then, that whilst this operation is more severe than that of tying the femoral artery, it has no advantage over it in false aneurism, unless we tie below the antica. In open wounds, however, or some cases of compound fracture, it may be necessary to tie it here, and in that case, these instructions, with regard to the relation of the parts, will be useful. If the artery be ever to be tied at the calf, an incision is to be riiade just at the inner edge of the tibia, so as to expose the attachment of the gastrocnemii. The vena saphena, if seen, is to be pressed back. The aponeurosis is then to be cut, and the muscles being separated, for at least three inches