20 clusteretl between the cartilages. If we slit the trachea, we see many small vessels forming a plexus between the rings, and detaching branches, upward and downward on the inner surface of the cartilages. These bleed freely when the trachea is cut, and this should be remembered in performing tracheotomy. We have only to take care that the blood gets easily out, for the bleeding soon stops. We see no glands till the mucous membrane be carefully removed, and then, with a glass, they may be observed, or they may be seen behind on removing the ligamentous coat. These glands are of great importance, and are often inflamed primarily or secondarily. They participate in the acute inflammation of lai'yngitis and croup; they are the seat of very obstinate chronic inflamma- tion, and muco-purulent discharge, in bi'onchitis and in pul- monary affection; independent of the effect of inflammation, or excitation, propagated upward, they, from excitation of the recurrent and upper laryngeal nerves, by the state of the eighth pair, are often powerfully affected. In many cases of decided pulmonary consumption, the patient refers the seat of irritation, causing cough, to the windpipe, just above the sternum. The trachea, in its descent along the throat, is connected to the neighbouring parts, not merely by cellular substance, but by a reflection of fascia, which may be traced both from the sides of the neck, and from the inside of the sterno-thyroid muscle at the sternum. If we divide the expansion of fascia going off* from the side of the trachea to that of the oesophagus, we can easily separate the cellular attachment of these two tubes. But the trachea is so elastic, and also so moveable, that when exposed, it is difficult to open it, if the instrument be not very sharp. This should be attended to in performing tracheotomy. The trachea in the adult passes down behind the sternum, at a distance of about five-eighths of an inch behind the inner surface of the top of that bone, or an inch and a half from the surface of the skin, in the average condition of fatness. * The thyroid gland is intimately connected Avith the trachea. It consists of two lobes, one on each side, generally, but not always, connected in front by a transverse portion or strip of gland. This varies in breadth from barely half, to above