470 larger, and even the crust of bone more brittle. There is a marked difference in the resistance to the saw, in making a longitudinal section of the two bones. Hence the cervix is more easily broken after fifty, and more readily within the capsule. Hence, also (although it may happen at any period), the cervix, when broken near its root, is sometimes driven into the cancelli of the shaft, and fixed there; or the whole circumference may not enter, but only the under half, or two-thirds, so that the neck is partly embedded in, partly laid across, the top of the shaft. The union, in extra-capsular, is effected, as in other frac- tures, by bone. The obliquity of the neck is preserved more or less according as the shaft is kept down. The surfaces unite, but often there is exuberant deposition around the trochanter. If the neck be driven into the cancelli, it may unite with the shaft in that manner, or it may remain long loose, yet so embraced, as to prevent detachment, and, ultimately, union takes place; or, the pressure of the end of the neck, on its former site, may cause absorption of that part, forming a hollow, into which it sinks. In both cases, the length and obliquity are diminished. It appears, that the neck may be only partially broken—that is, the shell, at the under surface, and part of the cancelli; and, in this case, the shell is usually carried a little way into the cancelli of the shaft, and the obliquity somewhat lessened. Such cases are, perhaps, not decided to be fractures till a section be made. In intra-capsular fracture, the union is rarely—some say, never—accomplished by bone. Sir Astley Cooper first made the strong distinction between the mode of union in the two species, believing that, in this case, the nutritive vessels being injured, bone was not formed. We find,— 1st, That the head remains in the acetabulum, attached by the round ligament. Its cartilage is absorbed, and its surface exhibits many small white patches, like ivory. It is changed in shape, and sometimes expanded, in which case, the acetabulum is enlarged. This is lined, more or less, with ivory- looking substance, and, in certain cases, the head cannot,