266 side of the face, is always to be viewed with apprehension, as, in the young or the old, it is too often a precursor of hydro- cephalus, or, of fatal organic affection, of the brain. If there be no disease within the cranium, such affections, whether of , the orbicularis palpebrarum, or side of the face, are often re- moved, by a course of purgatives, tonics, and repeated small blisters before the ear. It is of essential importance, to remove the paralysis of the orbicularis palpebrarum, as con- stant exposure of the eye, produces inflammation, and loss of sight. As the effect of dividing this nerve, is to paralyze the muscles it supplies, we may foresee the consequence of acciden- tal wounds, or of regular operations, when the principal branches have been cut, the special effect, depending on the particular radiation divided. A general rule, in the extirpa- tion of tumours in its tract, is not to go deeper, than is abso- lutely necessary, when the nerve lies between them and the muscles. I conclude this chapter, by noticing some parts, which may be injured, in particular wounds. I have already described, (page 132) how a sharp instrument may enter the orbit or nostril. In wounds, strictly above the zygoma, the temporal muscle and its aponeurosis, the temporal arteries, and nerves are the parts to be injured. If the aponeurosis inflame, the muscle is also affected, and the jaw becomes very stiff: if matter form below it, there is a necessity for an early and free open- ing. If it go obliquely down, within the zygoma, the tempo- ral muscle and pterygoideii, the internal maxillaiy, or deep temporal artery, or nerve, moy be more or less injured, and the instrument may even proceed into the fauces. If it go deep, and obliquely downward, inward, and back- ward, it may wound the internal carotid; if still more back- ward, the external carotid and jugular veins, sympathetic ganglion and ninth nerve. If as directly downward, as pos- sible, it may either pass on the outside of the ramus into the masseter, or by its inside, through the pterygoideii into the mouth and tongue, or fauces.