499 tension, and then drawing the tibia a little backward, at the same time that its head is pressed backward. If we cut the posterior ligament, the other defences being destroyed, we can press the tibia so far outward, as to make the outer condyle rest on the spine, or median ridge, of that bone, but we cannot press it inward. Division of the ante- rior ligament allows the reverse to take place. It is evident, then, that one or other of these must, generally, be torn in lateral dislocation, and that the other securities must be njore or less injured, yet, there have been instances where the ligaments have only been stretched. The knee must be broader than usual, though this may not be so well ascer- tained, from the general swelling. The joint is also twisted a little, one or other of the condyles being generally more forward from the rotation outw'ard or inward of the tibia. The patella, if its ligament be entire, is carried obliquely to the side to which the tibia goes. What is called the lateral dislocation is often very partial, the bones being more twisted than carried to a side. One of the condyles projects too much, but the joint is not broader. It is chiefly in such in- jury, I believe, that the ligaments escape laceration. The leg, in either case, is to be extended, not violently, but merely to render the bones more moveable. The tibia is at the same time to be pressed into its place, and if twdsted, to be rolled in the opposite direction. Compound dislocation generally requires amputation. The patella may be dislocated, and most frequently out- ward, in which case, if the capsule be not relaxed by previous disease, the opposite side is torn. The bone is felt placed to a side, there is a hollowness in front, and the insertion of the rectus and vastus internus, as well as the patellar ligament, aie stretched. The patient cannot bend his leg. It is reduced by making the leg quite straight, supporting it thus on the heel so as to make the knee sink as much as possible. The patella is then^ to be pressed over the condyle into its place, and active means used, afterwards, to allay inflammation. In dislocation inw'JifS, the appearances are the reverse, i he treatment is similar in principle.