255 and if pressed much, may injure the parts. The artery sends oflF a large branch to the ethmoidal cells, and the rest ramifies, minutely, over the nostril. It is the principal source of the blood here, for the ethmoidal artery, from the ophthal- mic, is of less importance. It is easily ruptured, and bleeds freely, so much so, that epistaxis may be a very serious dis- ease. It is quite impossible to compress, either the trunk, or branches, of this artery. The first is too well protected, and the last are distributed on irregular and inaccessible surfaces. Should we, in epistaxis, wish to stuff the nostril with lint, dry, or wet with an astringent, I have mentioned how the probe may reach, nearest, to the entrance of this artery. But it cannot be effectually compressed, and therefore, we must trust, so far as local means are concerned, to coagulation, which is promoted, by introducing gently into the nostril, dossils of lint, wet with solution of alum, or some vegetable astringent, so as to retard the circulation. Or, by closing the anterior nares, and holding the head forward, the blood, after run- ning, for some time, from the posterior opening, coagulates. It is rarely necessary to plug both ends, but when this is re- quired, the posterior opening is plugged, by passing an elas- tic catheter, with its end cut off, and armed with a thread, along the’nostril, till its end, and the thread hanging out of it, be seen behind the velum. The thread is then to be laid hold of, and pulled out of the mouth. Being in the catheter, pulling it, does not fret, or rub, the floor of the nostril; a plug is then to be firmly tied to it, and the end of it, which is hanging out of the extremity of the catheter, at the anterior nostril, is to be pulled, so as to draw the plug into the mouth, and back to the root of the tongue. Being lodcced , O O there, but not so far back as to obstruct breathing, both catheter and thread, are to be pulled quickly, but not roughly, forward, at the same time, that with our finger in the mouth, ■we guide, speedily, the plug, backward and upward, behind the velum, so as to lodge it at the posterior opening of the nose, and by tightening or pulling the thread, it is impacted there. The anterior opening, or nostril, is easily stuffed. There