493 femur; next, it gets between the condyles, and on the ligamentum posticum; and, lastly, on the upper part of the popliteus. It gives off, first, one or two superior irregular muscular arteries; and then the articular, which are five in number. Two superioi', external and internal, which run in opposite directions, under the tendons and above the condyles, ramifying, as they proceed to inosculate with each other, in front. A deep branch is, also, sent into the joint. Two inferior, in like manner, go round the joint, below, close to the bones. These two sets not only ramify minutely round the joint, but join with the external circumflex, the anastomotica, and a recurrent from the tibial. From the front of the artery, there comes off the articularis media, which penetrates the ligamentum posticum, to get into the joint, in the intex*ior of which it ramifies. Lastly, there are inferior muscular twigs. In puncture of the popliteal artery, producing false aneu- rism, it would be better to tie the femoral; but there may, though rarely, occur such a description of wound, as should require a ligature to be applied at, or near, the injury. The best place to expose the artery is in the upper part of the popliteal space, between the hamstrings, higher than the intercondyloid fossa, and before giving off the superior arti- cular arteries. An incision, fully three inches long, is to be made through the skin, in the median line, or a very little nearer the inner hamstring. This exposes the fascia, and, possibly, in, or under it, the saphena minor, which is to be drawn aside. The fascia being cut, we come to cellular substance, in which we see the popliteal nerve, though, per- haps, the vein may be first seen. The nerve has the vein to its inside—that is, nearer the tibial side. Under it, or par- tially covered by it, so as to be a little to its inside, is the artery, connected pretty firmly to the vein. The latter is to be detached, and drawn outward, unless it quite cover the artery, in which case, we find it best to draw it inward. The artery, being insulated, is to have the ligature applied, by means of a blunt needle, carried from without, inward. We must not be free in our insulation, w'ere it for no other reason