hind, so low, not only as the root of the zygoma, but from the outer half of the front of the articulating cavity, before, from the temporal fossa, fully as far down as the level of the outer canthus of the eye. Below this, it is only connected to the back of the upper jaw, by low cellular substance. It is im- planted by tendon into the coronoid process, and also is con- nected to the sigmoid notch, all the way back, to about three- eighths of an inch, of the root of condyle, so as to hide the pterygoideus externus, excepting there, where cellular sub- stance fills the space between it and the masseter. It also extends down the anterior margin, and inner surface, of the coronoid process to near the teeth, so that it is in contact with the anterior margin of the internal pterygoideus. On aline with the last grinder of the upper jaw, a band of tendon, fully a quarter of an inch broad, is sent off from the temporal muscle, to be implanted into the corresponding, or back part of the buccinator, which is farther connected to the margin of the coronoid process, by a fascia which passes from the one to the other. On exposing the temporal mus- cle, at the anterior margin of the coronoid process, we find that a portion of fat can be traced from the buccinator, which extends a little within the process, and the muscle, to the pterygoideus externus. Fat and cellular substance, are also found betvveen the back part of the jaw, or posterior part of the buccinator, and the coronoid process, but not higher than its point. On cutting off the temporal muscle, as it is connected to the notch, we see more of the ptery- goideus externus, obliquely traversed by the maxillary artery, which runs upward and forward. The firm masseter, arises as far forward as the malar pro- cess of the maxillary bone, and from the zygomatic arch, back to near its root. It is about an inch and three quarters broad, but becomes narrower and rounded at its extremity. It extends, for about half an inch forward, beyond the anterior margin of the ascending ramus, but it does not quite cover the condyle or neck, behind, nor entirely reach the posterior margin, till fully an inch above the peak of the angle of the jaw. There are two portions or layers of the muscle, very