235 orbitar ridge, the sac is not in that tract, but the eyelid shall be cut away from the orbit. The Nerves in the orbit, may be divided into those going to the eye, and those to its appendages and coverings. Two of the muscles, have their own proper nerves, the fourth, go- ing to the superior oblique, and the sixth, to the abductor. The third, goes to the other muscles, and also to the levator palpebrae. Then, we have the optic nerve itself, and the len- ticular ganglion, which is situated close by its outer side, in cellular substance, between the nerve and the abductor. It gives olf twelve, or more, very slender filaments, like fine threads, which run along all the sides of the optic nerve, parallel to it, and, entering the sclerotic, pass on, between it and the choroid, to the ciliary circle. The ganglion, which is small, is connected with the fifth and third nerves. The ophthalmic division of the fifth pair, soon after entering, by the sphenoidal fissure, divides into three branches. The lachrymal, runs outward, between the bone and abductor, to the gland, which it supplies, and filaments even pass out, to the eyelid, temple, and cheek. The nasal, is sent off, before pass- ing the dura mater, goes on, under the upper rectus muscle, to the anterior orbitar foramen, by which it gets to the up- per surface, of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and thence to the nose, within which it ramifies even to its extre- mity. It, as well as the third, is connected with the gan- glion. It also gives off a small branch, which passes out, be- low the pulley, called the infra-trochlearis, and goes to the eyelid, root of the nose, &c. The supra-orbitar divides early into two, which accompany each other,’closely, till about half an inch from the superciliary ridge, where they are more separ- ate. Both run on the levator palpebrm, and then pass above, and rather behind, the tendon of the superior oblique, which plays through a kind of pulley, just behind the superciliary ridge, at about an eighth of an inch outward from the inner canthus. The largest, or supra-orbitar, is the most back- ward, and a little more outward, passes out by the supercili- ary notch or foramen, under the muscles, which it presently