335 proiitition or supiniitioii 1)6 most £iilv£iiit£ig60iis Qncl com™ fortable. To understand fracture of the olecranon, and dislocation of the elbow, we must, first, attend to the fibrous capsule. This, in front, rises from the face of the outer condyle, and from a line extending inward, from that, to the side and root of the outer trochlea. Its line there slopes a little upward, across the fore partof the humerus, abouthalf an inch above the top of the articulating surface of the trochlea, but a little peak or fold, descends like a frenum, to the middle of the ti’ochlea. The fibrous tissue can be traced some way up the shaft, losing itself in the periosteum. It adheres to the surface of the ulnar side of the inner trochlea, extending down, on that surface, identified with a fasciculus of the brachieus muscle, which descends there. Behind, it extends from the one con- dyle to the other, just above the sigmoid cavity, adhering to the back of the inner condyle, and also to the still broader back of the outer condyle, so that it covers every part, but that intended to receive the olecranon. When the joint is bent, a little vacancy, or fossa, indeed, appears at the inner condyle; but when the arm is extended, this is filled by the inner side of the olecranon. The capsule, rising thus, is implanted into the articular margins of the olecranon behind, into those of the coronoid process before, and into the under margin and extremities of the ulnar sigmoid cavity, and thence extends to the neck of the radius, which it surrounds, and is there lost in, or identified with the periosteum. The fibres arising from the ends of the sigmoid, or articulating, fossa of the ulna, are thickened, so as to form a strong band, as broad as the side of the head of the radius, called the annular ligament, which binds it to that fossa. The under margin of this, as part of the capsule, is continued down into the periosteum, but so slackly as to permit of the radius being rolled, within a certain limit, without tearing it. It is implanted into the neck, about half an inch below the top or surface of the head, and in pronation and supination, the fibres become alternately straight and oblique. The rota- tion IS not intended to be greater, than the extent of that part