71 passes oil along the innominata, as we shall afterwards see, and I beg the reader to connect, the account to be given of the cardiac nerves, with this detail. There is sometimes no innominata, the right subclavian coming off directly from the aorta. In one case, I found it arising from the aorta, after the left subclavian, and passing up, behind the oesophagus, to the right side, behind the right carotid, and thence to the scaleni muscles. From its greater depth, the right vertebral vein passed over, instead of behind it. The right carotid, came up over the trachea in the course of the innominata, but ascended higher on the front of the trachea. The innominata is rarely the original seat of aneurism, but it may become aneurismal by participating in the disease of other arteries, particularly in that of the aorta. In whatever way it is enlarged, it presses more or less on the trachea, and produces difficulty of breathing, with frequent exacerbations, or fits of suffocation, and sometimes pain in the right shoul- der. In one instance of this kind, where the previous his- tory led to the belief that the larynx was diseased, tracheo- tomy was performed, but, it is needless to say, without benefit, or even the slightest temporary rehef. The air passed slowly out and in by the aperture. On dissection, I understand the innominata was found considerably enlai’ged, and the left carotid participated in the disease. It is not necessary, that there should be a pulsating tumour, above the sternum, when the innominata is aneurismal, for, it may enlarge downwards, or laterally towai-d the right subclavian vein. If it rise above the sternum, then, the muscles are pushed out, and a pulsating tumour is formed. Mere pulsation above the sternum is no proof of aneurism, for in some people, the artery rises compa- ratively high, and is felt beating, but this is not common. Pulsation above the sternum, particularly in men, generally proceeds from enlargement of the aorta, which not only may ascend so high, but without doing so, may push the innomi- nata higher than usual. If the aneurismal sac extend rather by the side of the trachea, then it resembles aneurism of the lower part of the carotid. There are some lymphatic glands