described, we have the basilic, and median basilic veins. These, lie on the deep aponeurosis, covered by, or involved in, the superficial fascia. Both, but particularly the latter, are traversed by branches of the internal cutaneous nerve, which may be wounded in venesection, and sometimes this is inevitable. Were it thought proper to divide the injured branch, that is done by a short transverse incision, a very little above the puncture, which, if carried fairly down, across the face of the vein, must cut the branch. How the trunk is to be exposed has already been described. The median basilic, generally at the joint, crosses, more or less obliquely, the course of the artery, which is felt beating below it, and may be wounded, if the vein be transfixed, or it may be opened alone, by the vein slipping aside. When the veins are involved in a firm fascia, they are fixed, but when the fascia is lax, and the connexion almost cellular, they roll under the finger, and if not fixed, and especially if the lancet be at all blunt, the vein is very apt to be pushed aside. Leaving out of the consideration, those varieties which have already been noticed, in the distribution of the arteries, I shall describe the relative situation of the parts at the inside of the arm here. On tiu’ning off the skin and superficial fascia, we turn off with them the subcutaneous veins, and expose the expansion of the aponeurosis from the biceps muscle, and the deep fascia covering the fore-arm. This expansion, (page 339,) which is strong and broad, covers the artery at the joint, and is traversed by the median basilic vein. Cutting across, and raising this expansion, we see, if the deep veins be removed, the artery, close by the inner margin of the tendon of the biceps, and the median nerve a little more inward. Going from without inward, we have, in order, the tendon, the artery, the nerve which has changed the rela- tion it formerly had to the vessel. So far, then, it appears, that the artery, here, may be very easily exposed. But it is ijj quite the contrary, for the venm comites have not been taken ^ into account. These, are formed by the deep radial and f ulnar veins, both of which, of course, are double, the former, i in the most favourable case, unite at the joint, and form the