the knife, at the upper pai't of the neck, and removing a layer of fascia from the lower part of the muscle, we see, at the side of the neck, a mixture of muscular and glistening tendinous " substance, the latter being most distinct at the inner margin of this muscle, which is the rectus. The muscular or outer margin is overlapped, in part, by the origins of the scalenus posticus, whilst it again, at its lower portion, is overlapped by the anticus. Tliis margin of the posticus is glistening, not only from tendon, but also by being covered with a fascia. Raising and turning outward the margin of the rectus, we find that it has been overlapping that of the longus colli, which is also bounded on the inside by a glistening tendinous substance, which goes gradually a little obliquely outward on the face of the muscle. Thus, at the upper part of the neck, we have three tendinous lines, parallel to, and very little dis- tant from each other; those of the scalenus, rectus, and longus. The rectus covers the lateral part of the vertebras, and rests on the anterior wall of the gutter in the transverse processes. It begins slender and peaked below, but becomes thicker and more fleshy as it ascends. It bounds the outer margin of the conimon carotid artery, for about two inches, below the bifur- cation. The artery rests on the longus, but the internal carotid comes to rest on the rectus. Several arterial branches traverse the outer margin of this muscle, which is not quite straight, but tends obliquely inward. The longus colli seems at first to be a long slender and straight muscle, but it is only the inner portion which has this appearance; for the outer, or lateral part, runs so far upward and outward, and then upward and inward, giving the outer margin an obtuse angu- lar appearance; and, indeed, the two portions have different origins. ITie muscles of the back part of the neck are easily under- stood, in so far as practical purposes are concerned. The first and outermost layer on the back and sides consists of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid, the latter of which, at the lower part, comes forward to the sternum itself. TTie posterior margin of the trapezius corresponds to the spines of the cer- vical and dorsal vertebrae, and there the two muscles of the