484 through the upper margin of tlie latter, and presently througli the adductor magnus. If we look from behind, it appears over- lapped by the gluteus maximus, and covered by the lower part of the quadratus, and by its veins. It runs down, first by the outer margin of the great nerve, and then by its inner, along the back, covered by the flexor muscles. At its perforation, it is separated from the internal circumflex, by the breadth of the pectineus. It supplies the muscles it traverses, and anastomoses with the ischiatic, circumflex, and neighbouring arteries. The second, usually, passes back at the under margin of the brevis, and perforates the magnus. It sends branches upward and downward to the diffei'ent muscles and anastomoses freely with the higher and lower arteries. It forms extensive rami- fications on the back of the thigh, and also sends a branch into the bone. The third passes back, at the upper margin of the longus, pierces the magnus, and gets to the muscles behind. The continuation of the artery passes behind the insertion of the longus, and pierces the magnus pretty far down, and close by the bone. It is then covered by the long head of the biceps, and goes to be spent on its short head, and, ultimately, toward the ham. It anastomoses with the popli- teal branches. There is a variation in the number of the perforating arteries, and, consequently, of the place where they go back, but they all pass close by the linea aspera. Besides the profunda, the femoral artery gives off, in its descent, several small muscular branches; and, just as it is about to turn back, at the margin of the triceps magnus, it gives off a large branch—the ramus anastomoticus. This inclines a little forward, on the vastus internus, and then runs nearly in the course of the saphenus nerve, toward the inner condyle, and not far from the tendon of the triceps. It sends branches upward, which anastomose with the termi- nations of the external circumflex, whilst its continuation inosculates with the internal articular artery. I’he obturator artery, the course of which, in the pelvis.