56 tors of the pharynx. As I have already mentioned, it appears more or less firmly or directly attached to the os hyoides, according to the stretching of the intervening muscles. The lingualis, which peculiarly belongs to the tongue, is in its very median line, and forms its most direct insertion. Next to that, are, on each side, the genio-hyo-glossi, which exactly flank that muscle, and connect the tongue with the front and more lateral parts of the os hyoides. If we place the finger at the root of the tongue, before the epiglottis, we feel the os hyoides, and press on the attachment of the lingualis and genio-hyo- glossi. At the sides they are fortified by the hyo-glossi. The stylo-glossi connect the tongue with the styloid process, contribute to the prolongation of its curve, or extension past the sides of the epiglottis, and strengthen its connexion with the pharynx, which is united to the tongue and its muscles, the constrictor being connected to it, and down along the hyo-glossus to the os hyoides. The relation, of all the muscles I have noticed, to the vessels, nerves, and glands, will come immediately to be pointed out. But, first, it will be necessary to explain the fasciae of the neck. As these are not only complicated, but not alike distinct in every subject, it is not easy to give an unperplexed account of them. It will simplify the matter to observe that. First, On dissecting off the skin and mere subcutaneous cellular substance, we observe a sheet of muscular fibres, named platysma myoides, which can be traced from the cheek, or side of the face, over the jaw, and down along the neck, not only to the clavicle, all the way back to the acTO-» mion, but, also, for some way down over the pectoral and del- toid muscles. It covers the front and sides completely, but does not go round to the back of the neck, being nearly bounded by a line drawn from the front of the mastoid pro- cess to the acromion. This cuts off the upper end of the mastoid muscle, which is only covered by fascia. In a strong muscular subject the fibres, when first exposed, are very dis- tinct, but when dried they disappear. Second, We have under this thin fibrous sheet, and where- ever it exists, a stratum of dense cellular substance, on which