162 tributes to the cardiac plexus, and to the meshwork on the subclavian and innominata. Branches also go to the pul- monary plexus, trachea, and oesophagus. The ascending nerve then mounts up by the latero-posterior part of the trachea, neaidy between it and the oesophagus. It is readily found by cutting between 'the carotid and trachea, when we find a quantity of yellow fatty cellular substance, imbedded in which, at the end of the cartilaginous rim of the trachea, the nerve runs. Its course may also be seen, after separating the carotid and trachea, by pulling the trunk of the eighth, as it is passing on the subclavian, when the recurrent is rendered tense. As it ascends, it gives small branches to the trachea and oesophagus, and to the thyroid gland. In the region of the gland, it lies behind the end of the cartilaginous segment of the trachea, overlapped by the margin of the gland, but not involved in it, for although many bi'anches go off as it ascends, and are distributed, as I have said, yet the trunk does not enter into the gland, but it sends a large branch into it. It runs up at the edge of the thyroid cartilage, between it and the cricoid, within the origin of the constrictor. It may be found just by the inside of the inferior horn of the thyroid cartilage, between it and the arytenoideus posticus. It here gives off a branch which dives forwai*d between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, whilst the trunk mounts up, covered by the outer margin of the arytenoideus posticus, and may be traced inward, between the thyroid and arytenoid carti- lages, in distinct branches, to the side of the epiglottis. It supplies the arytenoideus posticus, the mucous membrane of the larynx, and partly the crico-arytenoideus lateralis, and thyreo-arytenoideus, and proceeds up on the aryteno-epiglot- tideus, toward the side of the epiglottis. Although both the laryngeal nerves communicate, and cannot strictly be said to be confined to one set of muscles, yet, the constrictors principally depend on the superior, and the dilators on the inferior. Dividing, then, the inferior, must impair or destroy the action of the latter, whilst the former, being little impaired, continue to act, and contract perma- nently, to a greater or less degree, the glottis. It is, there-