ami cover part o( them, so that fulness of this vessel may act on the nerve. Having, at pages 15, 112, and 130, made some remarks on affections of the spinal cord, I shall here only notice a most harassing neuralgia of the nerves, which may either proceed from pressure or irritation of the trunk, or a preternatural sensibility of the branches and extremities. It often begins with a sense of weariness in the neck and head, soon followed by pain, which passes for rheumatism, more especially, as it sometimes extends to the shoulders and down the arms. It is usually worst during the night, or when in a recumbent posture. Sometimes the sensation is that of burn- ing heat in the scalp and neck; at other times of sharp pain, darting and radiating up the back of the head, and particu- larly severe about the ears, or it is that of extreme weariness and weight, scarcely more endurable than the acute pain. The sensations are in the course of the spinal nerves, and the muscles supplied by them ; but other nerves coming off at the base of the skull are brought into disease. The fifth suffers, and different parts of the face are affected with severe and deep seated, as well as more superficial pain. The eyes are pained, and the eyelids heavy, or the vision impaired; the jaw is stiff, and sometimes the mouth can be only partially opened; the tongue is white, and sometimes raw and tender; the pulse is either accelerated or preternaturally slow; the eighth pair of nerves suffer, and sometimes the sympathetic; the appetite fails; the body wastes from want of sleep and want of nourishment; the feet swell; and if the disease per- sist, the patient sinks, or organic disease of some of the viscera is excited; and although the original symptoms may be miti- gated, a new and fatal train of evils is induced. It is not easy to say what remedies can remove the complaint. It may wear itself out, but neither arsenic nor bark, mercury nor copper, nor antispasmodics, have seemed to do much good, and opium has only been of use so long as it produced sleep. The diet should be regulated, the bowels fully opened, and then kept most strictly regular, either by formulae or aperient mineral waters; change of air and of scene, with model ate exercise, are also proper; and tepid or cold sea-bathing,