468 superior and inferior spinous processes of the iHum. The limb was still shorter. To reduce, fix the pelvis, and pull the thigh downward, and a little outward; then, when the head is on a line with the brim of the acetabulum, roll it in, by rotating inwards, and, at the same time, bending the thigh on the body. If not reduced, a new acetabulum is formed; and, in Sir Astley Cooper’s preparation, in Guy’s Hospital, there is, between the old and the new acetabulum, an articulating surface for receiving the top of the trochanter, which thus becomes both a prop for the trunk, and a point of motion. The fibrous capsule of the joint rises from the circum- ference of the acetabulum, and goes to be implanted allround the root of the neck. Above, it I’eaches very near the trochanteric fossa, and, behind and before, to within a little of the respective interti-ochanteric lines, intermixing with the implantation of the tendons, already described at page 460. It is strongest at the upper and anterior part, being strength- ened in front by a band of fibres descending from the in- ferior spine of the ilium. A synovial membrane lines this capsule, reflected from its cervical attachment, up along the neck, head of the bone, and ligamentum teres, to the acetabu- lum. The periosteum and synovial membrane conduct small vessels along the neck, between the head, and point of reflec- tion of the membi'ane, at the root of the neck. These enter into the bone, and nourish it; hence, if torn, there is a deficiency of nutriment. Some also pass along the ligamentum teres. These arteries come either from the internal circum- I flex, or obturator, but frequently from both. A fracture of the cervix, to be quite without the capsule, must be close by the trochanter, and go obliquely down, both in front and behind, at, or without, the respective intertrochanter lines. It. may be a little nearer the head, without being within the synovial membrane, or tearing the vascular ramifications. Whenever the fracture is in the cervix, properly so called— that is, beyond its root, it is within the capsule. The upper surface of the neck is five-eighths of an inch lower than the very margin or rim of the head ; three-quarters I