293 it crosses the artery, a portion of the vessel bare, and then below it, a slip, longer or shorter, of the vessel. The student, however, must recollect, that, after, in his dissection, he has removed the fascial and cellular covering, parts recede, which were formerly kept together; and the surgeon must remem- ber, that it is a more delicate matter to expose the artery, in the living subject, between the nerves, than to clean and sepai-ate the parts, when the artery is injected. But, unless the axilla were extensively opened, by a casual wound, no one, I think, could be warranted in making such an incision, as should expose the front of the artery and nerves. I there- fore proceed to the second view of the axilla, that ob- tained, by looking upward, between its folds. On turning off the skin, and opening the fascia, covering the armpit, we see cellular substance, sometimes crossed by a slip of muscle (extending from the fleshy part of the latissi- mus dorsi, to the tendon of the pectoralis) and many glands. Drawing these down, and cautiously detaching them, we see, passing through them, from the thorax, to the top of the arm, the intercostal nerves. Cutting, or insulating these, we can, with little dissection, remove, en masse, the glands and cellular substance. In doing this, in the ordinary state, only little ramifications, of the vessels will be divided, the larger branches running more in contact with the different muscles, forming the boundaries of the axilla. Yet, in some instances, larger rami, particularly from the thoracica longa, will be divided, and this is especially the case, when we go high. Ihere, if we cut, instead of carefully detaching, by pulling and using a blunt instrument, the main trunk of the longa, or some other irregular, but large branch, must be'divided. This is still more likely to happen, if the arm be much raised, for then the arteries are put on the stretch, and more remov- ed from the parietes. By separating the glands, partly, by the knife, but rather, after freely dividing the fascia, by the finger, or handle of the scalpel, from the thorax, on the one hand, and the great vein, on the other, as well as from the anterior and posterior parietes, we can often tear them away from the roof of the cavity, without much difficulty, or dividing