191 to pass than liquids, for it requires less contraction; and, if it do not break down, it does not enter the glottis. But, swallow- ing is often impossible, or, when it is attempted, it either opens or greatly disturbs the wound, and therefore it is seldom proper to permit the effort. It is better, if it can be done, to inject, into the stomach, liquid nourishment, by a tube introduced through the nostril. It unfortunately happens, however, that in a great many cases of wound in any part of the throat, the irritability is so great that a tube cannot be borne. It produces cough, and efforts to vomit, so painful and violent, that nothing can induce the patient to submit to its use. In such cases, it is necessary to have recourse to nutritive glys- ters. Thirst must be allayed by moistening the mouth frequently, by just as much as can, in a favourable posi- tion, trickle into the fauces. Sometimes the patient, par- ticularly if the wound be lower in the throat, and the epi- glottis be untouched, gulps water freely, so as to allow it to run out by the wound, and wash his mouth and pharynx in its passage. Wounds above the os hyoides are rare, and generally they are close by the bone. The anterior belly of the digastric is cut across, and the tendon of the muscle is separ- ated from the lateral part of the bone, or is more or less obliquely cut, and the other muscles attached to the bone, are divided to an extent proportioned to the depth of the wound. It may divide the whole of the muscles, that is, sever the attachment of the tongue, and yet not enter into the mouth or fauces, the mucous membrane being left entire. If it go in, it may either pass above the epiglottis, that falling down before the instrument, or it may make a transverse slit in it, or cut off more or less of it. The lingual artery and nerve are likely to be divided, and so is the facial and external carotid, if the wound go back. Stabs at the upper and lateral part of the neck may wound the trunk or branches of the carotid artery, and perhaps the jugular vein. If there be a mere puncture there, although the artery be opened, the haemorrhage may cease spontaneously, particularly if the wound be oblique.’ In this