188 extent, and we expose the side of the upper part of the larynx. The tongue and epiglottis remain attached to the os hyoides, and the laryngeal apparatus is only connected with the divided pharynx. It is possible, if the incision have been very near the os hyoides, and carried upward, when the epiglottis was turned backward, that this may be separated fi'om the os hyoides and remain attached to the thyroid car- tilage, or connected to the os hyoides by only a fragment of the membrane. But, in such an wound, part of the epiglot- tis is more apt to be cut through entirely or partially. In all wounds here the epiglottis is impaired, and in most quite unfitted for its office, so that the arytenoid cartilages alone can act. These may also be injured if the incision go close by the thyroid cartilage and directly backward; for when they are at their highest elevation they project so far above the cartilage that an eighth of an inch may be cut off; and were the incision to go obliquely inward, at the side, the quan- tity divided might be considerable. An wound at the very side can scarcely go so deep, or so obliquely downward and inward, as to cut the arytenoid cartilage without also dividing the thyroid horn. A stab with a narrow knife, within the thyroid cartilage, and directed backward and inward, may wound the arytenoid cartilage. If fairly cut off, then the glottis cannot be closed, so as to enable the patient to swal- low, at least till the epiglottis be able to act. It has also happened that the cartilage has not been cut quite through, and the loose flap has been drawn into the rima glottidis, and suffocated the person. Even when these cartilages are entire, they seldom act efficiently, and effused blood, saliva, &c. cause troublesome cough, very soon aggravated by the inflammation, which takes place, and which sometimes either extends downwards, or is complicated with inflammation farther down. Wounds here are, ceteris paribus, dangerous, in propor- tion to their extent. Some interest only the front and part of the side, not going far back. In such, the danger is less, and the pharynx sooner recovers its power, perhaps never loses it entirely; and, at all events, if the position be