501 difficulty of keeping the surfaces in perfect contact, the union rarely takes place by osseous matter, but by ligamen- tous intermedium. Our object is to have that as thin as possible. In perpendicular fracture, the lateral implantation of the extensor muscles draws the two portions separate, and this is greatly increased if the knee be bent. A longitudinal de- pression can then be felt. The treatment is the same as in the other case, only we apply lateral pads, and being better able to obtain and preserve complete coaptation, osseous union may perhaps be accomplished. Fracture in three or more pieces, may be attended with more severe symptoms, but the principle is the same. Com- pound fracture generally requires amputation, but if the wound be small, we assuredly try to produce adhesion, and save the limb. The superficial fascia from the thigh is continued down the leg. Beneath this is a deeper aponeurosis, which ad- heres firmly to the shin or ridge of the tibia, and if we trace this outward, we find that whilst it covers the peroneus, it also sends a layer under that, between it and the extensor digitorum, to be attached to the fibula. It goes round the back of the leg, covering the gastrocnemius. On removing the deep aponeurosis in front, from between the tibia and fibula, we see the intervening space to be filled by muscle, but in the upper two-thirds there is no distinct line of sepa- ration, yet, on looking more narrowly, a fine cellular line may be discovered, which runs in the direction of a thread, one end of which is placed midway between the front of the tuberosity of the tibia, and the anterior side of the head of the fibula, or perhaps a very little nearer the tibia, and the other on the anterior margin of the malleolar process of the fibula. Separating cautiously at this line, in the upper part of the leg, we detach two portions of flesh, the innermost belonging to the tibialis anticus, the outermost to the flexor digitorum, about half an inch broad here. The tract of the lower half of the first muscle, is marked by a line from the side of the