208 Ihe SUBMAXILLARY GLAND is lodged between the bellies of the digastric. It partly overlaps the sweep made by its tend- on, but does not encroach on either of its bellies, but behind, a little of it rests on the stylo-hyoideus, which generally pre- vents it from touching the constrictor. It lies partly on the mylo-hyoideus, partly on the hyo-glossus, but the propor- tion on each, varies in different individuals. Perhaps half an inch extends on the mylo-hyoideus, whilst a narrow prolonga- tion, generally, runs forward under that muscle, all the way to the sublingual gland with the excretory duct, which comes off from the inner surface of the gland, pretty far up, and also far back, and runs for\yard for about five-eighths of an inch, where it reaches the sublingual gland, passes on above it, or involved in it, to open at the side of the frenum. That part of the gland which lies between the bellies of the digastric, or is seen in removing the fascia, is about an inch and a half long, one broad, and fully half an inch thick. If the finger were pushed up from the gland, toward the mouth, it would touch the mucous membrane, opposite the last grinder, and the gland, on the hyo-glossus, reaches up within the jaw, to the membrane. It is separated at the angle of the jaw, from the parotid, by a firm septum of fascia; a thin layer cover’s the gland, and on that is the strong platysma. The facial artery, touches first the back part of the gland, near the angle of the jaw. It then runs forward through, or in a sulcus, along the upper part of the gland, from which it emerges to turn up over the jaw blade. It is accom- panied by two small venae comites. The anterior facial vein, again, passes over the jaw blade, just behind the artei’y, and descends on the face or surface of the gland, to meet the pos- terior facial. The branches given off in the gland have been already noticed. On raising the gland, and cutting through the mylo-hyoideus, to expose all its connexions, we find that it was resting on the lingual nerve and ranular vein, with merely the interposition of a thin fascia. The ninth is related chiefly to the gland, and but little to the duct, for it begins to be distributed in the genio-hyo-glossus immediately on leaving the hyo-glossus. The ranular vein.