inch, to the outside of the angle of the mouth, is imbedded in cellular substance, and under the fascia of the jaw, resting first on the buccinator, and running under the zygomaticus, and levator labii superioris proprius, and above the levator anguli oris, and the levator labii alaeque nasi. Between the margin of the jaw and the mouth, it gives off some irregular ramuli, backward, to the masseter, &c., and a branch foi- ward on the chin, which anastomoses with ascending twigs from the submental, and. some from the dental, coming out of the foramen. These, altogether, form a mesh work on the chin, and anastomose with the descending twigs of the infe- rior coronary. This last artery, comes off a little below the angle of the mouth, and passes under the muscles of the mouth, between them and the membrane of the lip. It runs forward, and joins the one from the other side, ramifying in the lip, and amongst the mucous glands, and sending down ramuli to anastomose with the vessels of the chin. The su- perior coronary, comes off a very little higher, and runs, in like manner, in the upper lip, and sends up a branch to the septum nasi. From these arteries encircling the mouth, they receive their name of coronary, and their deep situa- tion is to be attended to. By falls or blows, the teeth may cut the inside of the lip, and open the artery, which bleeds long and obstinately. It is readily secured by turning the lip down, and. taking up the vessel with a tenaculum, or we may use on the inside a common stitch, the thread being passed in front of the arteries. If the internal cut be long, perpendicular, and deep, reaching almost to the skin or front, then, although the lip be not divided, it is better to use the twisted suture, as this cures the part, without a fissure, or chop, and, at the same time, stops the bleeding, if the needle be passed close by the membrane behind. This is always to be attended to, in wounds of the lip, whether accidental, or made for the removal of cancerous disease, &c., otherwise, we not only have a fissure left, but the arter- ies not being pressed, continue to bleed, even, to an alarming The facial artery then continues its course, and gives off