48G perforates the triceps brevis, or traverses its margin, running down on its surface. Another, deeper, is seen, on removing that muscle, ramifying on the obturator, and thence to the inside of the thigh. Both of these, accompanied by nume- rous arterial and veinous ramuli, are covered by fascia. The anterior crural nerve, issuing close, and pretty deep, by the outer margin of the femoral artery, immediately splits into different branches. Some of these have been already noticed—such as the saphenus, the vastus, and other muscular nerves. The circumflex nerves are external and internal. The first goes outward, under the sartorius, and over the psoas and iliacus, to the muscles. One long branch goes into the vastus externus. The second, not so large, goes, beneath the vessels, to the pectineus and adductors. Some, name the individual branches, from the muscles they go to. The superficial nerves are,—First, The Inguinal, or crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, which is distributed over the groin; Second, The External cutaneus, (page 399). This issues from under the ligament, usually, between the two spinous processes, but, sometimes, from half an inch to an inch more forward. It pierces the fascia, at a distance varying from one to three inches, and subdivides then, if not earlier, generally into two branches. The outermost, and smallest, runs down on the sartorius, rectus, tensor, and vastus, rami- fying on the outside of the thigh, even to the condyle. The innermost goes down on the sartorius and rectus, a little more forward, supplying the latero-anterior part of the thigh, to the knee. Third, The Cutaneus medius, separating at the outer margin of the psoas, within the pelvis, comes out still more pubal, perhaps two inches from the spine of the ilium. It runs down, nearly perpendicularly, first on the sartorius, and then on the rectus and vastus, going down to both sides of the patella. This may be considered merely as a branch of the former; for it is connected with it within the pelvis, and often is wanting, its place being supplied by the inner- most branch of the Externus, which divides into two. Fourth, The Cutaneus anterior, runs, for a little, by the outer margin of the artery, then, when the sartorius meets the vessel, it