404 we detach that membrane from the vein, and toward the brim of the pelvis. The consequence of tliis is, that, when matter forms, it is apt to insinuate itself under the peritonaeum, down into the cavity of the pelvis. If the epigastric artery be much exposed or separated, it will be right to put a ligature round it, as it might afterwards give way. The common, is much more easily tied than the internal iliac artery. From its origin, about two inches above the promontory of the sacrum, to its subdivision, it, on the left side, either covers the common iliac vein, or the latter pro- jects a little at its inner margin. On the right side, the artery either covers the vein, or the latter projects a little at the outer margin. It is crossed by the artery. Often on the right side, the artery has the vena cava, for a little, on the outer margin, in which case, when the common iliac is given off, that runs down behind its artery. It is a general rule, that the vein is behind, or covered by its artery; or, if not, the projection from beneath is ilial on the right, and pubal on the left side. The space that we can expose, on either side, is about an inch and a half. The ureter descends by the outside of the artery at first, then it gets more on its face, and, just at the division into the two great branches, it turns on the face of the internal iliac, to cross and dip into the pelvis, so that, strictly, no part rests on the external. The superior haemorrhoidal artery, on the left side, runs down partly in front, partly, toward the outer margin of the com- mon, and then in front of the internal iliac artery. It is loose, and must always be turned aside with the peritonaeum. The spermatic vessels go down by the outside of the artery; so do the ovarian, which, like the former, descend by the outer margin of the external iliac, but cross it about an inch and a half from the sacro-iliac symphysis, or sometimes midway between it and Poupart’s ligament. In raising the peritonaeum, in order to insulate the artery, the spermatic, or ovarian, vessels shall most probably be raised with it, and the ureter always is. Such being the relation of the artery, it remains to explain how it is to be exposed. Our object is, to get as directly, and with as little disturbance of parts as possible, to the side