303 the tendons of muscles. These being, in so far, coherent to the margin of the articulating surfaces, and to the capsule, act as thick bands opposing displacement. But, besides the security, from the strength and elasticity of these tendons, we have farther protection, from the muscles which act on them, and pull them tighter, whenever any effort (not instan- taneous), is made to force the barrier. The subscapularis offers resistance in one direction, whilst the supra and infra- spinati pull in another. The biceps, and coraco-brachialis, are also subsidiary. The capsule of the shoulder joint, is sufficiently slack, to permit of free motion, and considerable rotation, but the extent is not the same in every case. In some sub- jects, when quite fresh, we can, on removing the muscles, pull down the arm, so as to allow the finger to be push- ed between the head of the bone and the glenoid cavity, or can push the head half over the cavity, but complete luxation cannot take place, without extensive laceration. The extent of rotation also varies, when all the muscles are fresh and entire, from less than inch, to an inch and a half. If all the muscles be cut off, and their implantations alone left, the circumference of the head of the bone, covered by the capsule and remains of the tendons, is six inches and a half, and the extent of rotation, from an inch and a half, to two inches. A large bursa covers the anterior part of the capsule. It is attached to the margin of the coraco-acromial ligament, but rises a little higher within that, and extends down be- yond the cervix, covered by the deltoid muscle. When this swells, it raises that muscle, and a deep-seated fluctuation is perceived. The three muscles, most directly, or abruptly, connected with the head of the bone, are the two spinati and the sub- scapularis. The supra-spinatus is covered completely by the trapezius, acromion, coraco-acromial ligament and deltoid. From the root of the spine, forward, along the neck, it is separated from the infra-spinatus, by a firm fibrous septum, which, at the root of the acromion, is perforated for the