324 rests on the triceps brevis, a little overlapped by the biceps. At the insertion of the coraco-brachieus, it is between its ten- don, on the outer part, and the triceps brevis, behind. Then, it rests on the front of the side of the brachieus internus. The artery is accompanied by two venae comites, one, on the outside, another, on the inside, and here and there, com- municating branches between them, or, sometimes, muscular branches, entering into them, cross obliquely the face of the artery. The continuation of the basilic vein, called the brachial, from the point where it meets the artery, above the elbow, continues up by its inner margin. The relation of the spiral nerve has just been mentioned; the ulnar, for nearly half way down the arm, is behind the great vein, with the profunda inferior to its outside, and then it divaricates inward, and a little backwai’d. The internal cutaneous nerve, lies on the face, or margin of the vein; the little cutaneous, often, on the inside of the vein, and front of the ulnar nerve; the median, on the face of the artery, till near the joint, when it is to its inside. There is great variety in the origin and distribution of the brachial branches, but the most regular way is to send off a superior and inferior profunda, and the ramus anastomoti- cus, besides minor ramuli. First, the Superior profunda comes off, high, from the back part of the artery, either on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, or immediately after passing that. It gives a small division, which winds outward on the triceps brevis, and under the coraco-brachieus. A second and larger branch, runs downward and inward on the triceps, supplying the longus and brevis, whilst the largest division, or trunk, receives the name of the spiral artery. Its relation to the spiral nerve, is not uniformly the same. Generally, it is first on the front of the nerve, and then, after the turn, continues on its inside. Sometimes it is, soon after its origin, rather behind the nerve; then, in going round the bone, it is to its outside; and when fairly to the outside of the arm, the nerve is behind the artei'y, but soon crosses under it, and gets before it, so, that when we come to the supinator, the artery is found behind the nerve. A large muscular branch