360 three quarters above the pisiform bone, it is found on the flexor profundus, between the sublimis and flexor ulnaris, covered only by the aponeurosis and skin of the fore-arm. In all this tract, it, and its venae comites and ulnar nerve, are flxed on the flexor profundus, by the thin fascia which covers that muscle, and them. Almost immediately, the ulnar artery gives olf a small branch, the anterior recurrent, which runs up on the brachieus, by the inside of the main artery, and innosculates -with the ramus anastomoticus. The posterior, comes off lower than fully an inch below tbe bifurcation, and on the flexor profundus, covered by the small head of the pronator. It winds upward, and a little backward, on the profundus, or in a kind of sulcus, between it and the ulna, at the coronoid process, covered by the sublimis. It next reaches the flexor nlnaris, passes between its origins, and proceeds to the back of the inner condyle, first, by the radial side of the ulnar nerve, and then, having reached the condyle, behind it. It anastomoses with the profunda inferior. Immediately after this branch, the ulnar gives off the interossea, which sinks deeply backward, and after sending up one or two small anterior recurrents around the coronoid process, it gives off' a branch which runs down by the outside of the median nerve, into the flexor sublimis. This sometimes rises directly from the ulnar. At the slit, between the oblique and interosseous ligaments, the interossea dividesinto the anterior and posterior. The first, accompanied, on its radial side, by the interosseous nerve, and covered by the flexor profundus and pollicis, runs down on the face of the interosseous ligament, to very near the upper margin of the pronator quadratus. There it divides; one branch, the smallest, runs down under that muscle, to the front of the wrist; another, larger, passes back through the foramen in the ligament, and descends behind to the wrist. The second appears at the inferior margin of the supinator brevis, and gives off a recurrent branch, which runs up on that muscle, to between the olecranon and outer condyle. It is covei’ed by the anconeus and extensor ulnaris. The inter- ossea, then, continues its course dowitward, on the margin of