183 jugular vein sweeps forward at the clavicle, and the supra- scapular runs parallel to it by its inside; so that both of these veins are in the way in operations here. The cervicalis pro- funda, (page 120,) is so deep that it cannot be wounded, unless the nerves and scalenus be cut through, and, indeed, the subclavian itself injured. The axillary plexus must be attended to. It is of an angu- lar shape, the narrowest part being uppermost The highest nerve appears at the margin of the scalenus, about from one inch and three quarters, to two and a half, above the clavicle, according to the length of the neck, and the breadth of the muscle, generally about two inches and a quarter. The under margin of the last cervical nerve, as it comes out, is fully a quarter of an inch above the bone. The breadth of the plexus, at the clavicle, is about three quarters of an inch, and its outer margin passes down beneath it, at a point cor- responding to a perpendicular line, the subject lying on the back, dropped at two and a half or three-eighths of an inch from the articulation; or, if the neck be broad and flat, it may even be a little more. The inner margin will correspond to the outer one of the scalenus above the artery. The supra- scapular is the outermost nerve. At about three-eighths of an inch above the clavicle, it begins to wind outward, and is connected to the bone by aponeurosis. It is below the clavicle, at a point fully three inches out from the articulation. Its relation to the artery must vary, according as that runs higher or lower, and also according to the point we take it at. I shall afterwards have occasion to notice the course of these nerves. The phrenic nerve runs down by the outer margin of the jugular vein; but if the deep aponeurosis be not cut, this nerve is safe. I shall finish this part, by noticing tumours commenc- ing about the hyo-thyroid space. • This is completely covered by muscles. The deepest, or hyo-thyroid, does not come forward to the front, nor back to the end of the horn. It is a lateral muscle; but the deficiency in front is made up by the sterno-hyoideus, which covers most of the hyo-thyroi- deus; and what would have been otherwise bare, is covered