Ill by a probe a ligature may be passed round it. I have not known it necessary in the living subject, but I have done it in the dissecting-room. The vertebral enters the hole in the transverse process of the fifth or sixth vertebra, sometimes the last, sometimes so high as the third. It runs up to the top of the transverse process of the atlas, but in its passage from the dentata to this, it does not run straight, but forms a curve forward. . It then rises up out of the foramen, and winds backward, round the condyle, in a groove on the surface of the vertebra, and enters the cranium by the foramen magnum, penetrating the broad ligament at a point rather nearer the mastoid process than the spine of the dentata, that is, not exactly at the side, but a little behind it. In this course, besides being covered by the more superficial muscles, it must be quite buried under the rectus lateralis, and the mass formed by the ti*iangular junction of the rectus major posticus and two obliqui. On opening up the triangular space formed between these, or detaching them, and cleaning out some dense cellular sub- stance, we expose the artery bare, before it enter the cra- nium ; and at this point, some branches, one of them gene- rally large, are given off, which supply the muscles and anastomose with the occipital, and even the cervicalis profunda. Several branches cluster about the outer margin of the rectus major. The arteries from the opposite sides pass on by the side of the medulla oblongata, to form the basilary artery. The nerves from the base of the cerebellum and medulla oblongata come off either at the sides of the arteries con- tinued from the vertebral, or the arteries somewhat encroach on their origins, lying between these and the base of the skull. The vertebral artery, in its course up the neck, gives off no important branch, only ramuli to the vertebral muscles, and, with the cervical nerves, inward. The most important branches are given off within the foramen magnum, for I say no more of the trunk, or circulation within the head. These are the spinal arteries, four in number, two anterior, arising near the basilary artery, which, soon uniting, form a small tortuous artery, which descends along the front of the medulla spinails