pierces, and becomes superficial. The smallest, called the super-trochlearis, passes likewise above the tendon of the trochlearis, and gets out on the forehead. Injury done to the extremities of the nerves, by a blow, &c., may affect their origins, so as to produce fatal disease, but, more frequently, the symptoms, though alarming, and resem- bling those of hydrocephalus, may be removed by bleeding, blistering the head, purgatives, mercury, &c. Paralysis of the levator palpebrae, is sometimes removed, by applying a stimu- lating substance to the eyelid, but frequently, with children, it is a precursor of fatal disease in the head. Affections of the orbicularis, more frequently, depend on the state of the portio dura. Amaurosis, is supposed, sometimes, to follow injury of the fifth nerve. The appearance of the eye, is attended to by physicians as indicating the state of the origin of the nerves. The fifth nerve, is of importance in the indica- tions in fever. The artery, properly speaking, of the orbit, is the ophthal- mic, which enters below, and to the outer side of, the optic nerve. It is of considerable size, and, soon gives off the lachx'ymal, to the gland, branches to the muscles and fat, the posterior and anterior ethmoidal, which enter into the nose, the anterior nasal, which passes below the tendon of the trochlearis, and out, above that of the orbicularis, to the inner canthus, the supra-orbitax*, and bx-anches to the eyelids. The accompanying veins, either pass back, by the sphenoidal fis- sure into the cavernous sinus, or out into the angular vein. On looking at the dissected face, we may observe a very natux'al division. The posterior part, on each side, is occu- pied by firm, solid, and adherent muscles, the masseter and temporal, whilst, in the intervening portion in fx’ont, we observe three bx-oad orbicular muscles, one, surrounding each eye, and, another, encircling the mouth. In the centre of these, we have the nose with its cartilages and muscles, whilst, beneath the orbiculax'is palpebx*arum, and to the outside of the ox’biculaxds ox'is, we have the buccinator and various muscles, tending all toward the xnouth, which may be coxxsid-