364- by the artery. The nerve, just after passing the condyle, and whilst between the origins of the flexor ulnaris, gives off, at least, two muscular branches; one, long, to the flexor ulnaris, another, to the flexor profundus. Fully three inches above the wrist, a large branch, the dorsal, rises, but remains nearly in contact with the trunk, first on the flexor profundus, then, on the very margin of the pronator quadratus, till about an inch above the end of the ulna, where it passes between the flexor ulnaris and ulna, to become subcutaneous, running down on the margin of the bone, and its styloid process. It immediately divides into two. The smallest and most ante- rior, runs down by the inner margin of the little finger. The other winds more backward and outward, first, on the carpus, and then to the back of the ring finger. The con- tinuation of the ulnar nerve, or palmar division, belongs to the hand. The Median nerve passes down at the elbow joint, by the inside of the artery, connected to the brachieus by a layer of fascia. It, almost immediately, is covered by the great head of the pronator, and passes between it and the small head, at fully an inch and a half below the inner condyle. Then, about a quarter of an inch farther down, it dips between the two heads of the flexor sublimis, though some- times it penetrates its substance, in order immediately to reach the flexor profundus, on which it proceeds to the wrist. There, it passes under the carpal ligament, on the tendons of the profundus, covered by those of the sublimis, which go to the fore and mid finger. At first, the nerve goes down by the inside of the ulnar artery, but not so deep, and separated from it by the little head of the pronator. Proceeding straight down, it passes to the hand, rather nearer the radial, than the ulnar margin of the wrist. The line of the nerve is not straight from the elbow to the wrist, as it, at first, inclines inward, and then runs directly down. A thread placed with one end on the wrist joint, a very little nearer its radial than its ulnar margin, and the other on the face of the inner condyle, will mark the course of the nerve, up to about three inches and a half below the condyle. A line from the inside