458 whlcli becomes united with that of the vasti, and with the under surface of the rectus tendon. The muscular fibres adherfi to the face of the bone, till the synovial membrane commences, and then they are attached to it, so that they can pull it up. The rectus muscle covers this one, and is firmly connected, at its margin, to the vasti, by strong fascia. Let us next attend to the adductors. On the inside of the thigh, its margin covered by the gracilis, and rising from the front of the pubis, to the inside of its tubercle, we have the adductor Longus, a large and strong muscle, which'is inserted into the linea aspera, from the termination of that of the Brevis, for fully three inches down. The lower half of its implantation is intimately connected with the adductor magnus. The Brevis is also a strong _^muscle. It rises lower than the longus, and from the ramus of the pubis. Its implantation is into the linea aspera, from the little trochanter downward, for above four inches, and till it meet that of the longus. It is hid by this last, and by the pectineus. If we draw these asunder, we see the brevis covering the obturator externus, except for a very little at the upper part. If this, and the other muscles were cut away, we should then see the obturator entirely, and going to the trochanteric fossa. If we look at the implantation of the brevis, we see that the pectineus is inserted just in front of it, for the space of an inch and a half, down from the little trochanter. It is a strong muscle, about an inch and a half broad, marching with the outer margin of the adductor longus. The adductor Magnus rises from the ramus of the pubis, and ischium, even toward the tuberosity, and is implanted into the linea aspera, from its commencement down to, at least, its bifurcation. The upper margin is bounded by the lower one of the quad- ratus. Its inner, by the gracilis, and, at the end, it is inti- mately connected with the longus; and, from the union of both, a pretty strong tendon passes directly down to the top of the inner condyle. The under margin, partly tendinous, but chiefly muscular, about four inches above the condyle, arches from the linea aspera to this tendon, so as to form a lunated border, looking downward. Below that, fascia,