108 the mouth of tlie artery itself is not seen, and the vessel is not tied, but only this expansion, which yields to the ligature. The posterior auris comes oft' generally just at the upper margin of the stylo-hyoideus and digastric, and winds back over the face or bellies of these, toward the mastoid process. It then divides into two branches, the anterior of which gives the name to the artery, for it runs to the back of the external ear. The posterior, mounts oh the side of the head, and anastomoses with the superficial temporal and occipital arteries. A small artery is given oft' usually from this one, as it is passing to the mastoid process. It enters the stylo- mastoid hole, where the portio dura comes out; and, when the trunk of the nerve is exposed, this, the stylo-mastoidea, is seen nearly parallel to it, but lower, although in contact. There are still important arteries in the neck which remain to be noticed; but the consideration of these will oblige me to include some which strictly belong to the shoulder. Much confusion has prevailed in the description of the arteries arising at the lower part of the neck, partly, from the irregularity of the vessels themselves, and partly, from different authors not choosing to apply the same name to the same vessel. It will simplify the matter to remember, that it is that portion of the subclavian artery which lies between the carotid and its passage under the clavicle, which gives off these vessels, and that they are distributed in two directions, or have two desti- nations, to the neck and brain, and to the shoulder. The first artery given off has little irregularity, and cannot give any embarrassment; I will, therefore, dispose of it first. It is the vertebral, and it is usually the earliest branch given off by the subclavian, but, sometimes, the thyroid takes pre- cedence. The right vertebral comes oft' just so near the entrance of the subclavian, between the scaleni, as to give space for the origin of the thyroid. It arises from the upper and posterior part of the artery, and vei’y little fai-tlier from the scalenus than the thyroid, which arises from the upper and anterior part. Just about the same spot, but going down from the under part of the artery, is the mammaria interna.