417 the staff, we expose and feel the membranous part of the urethra, surrounded by some cellular substance, and the mus- cular fibres, already described. In its natural state, neither stretched nor detached fi'om its connexion, it is about three- eighths of/an inch long. It is described as being longer, perhaps nearly an inch; but then the parts are more sepa- rated, and the measurement is taken, not from the triangular fascia, but the bulb of the urethra. We also find, at the lower surface of that portion, just within the levator, a little behind the bulb, and before the prostate gland, two small glands, one on each side, which open, by ducts, into the urethra. They are larger than coriander seeds, and are always covered by the levator, unless in those cases where the muscles, from the opposite sides, are not properly connected in the median line. Removing more completely the levator, we see the prostate gland. In doing this, we ascertain that the muscle not only is connected to the side of the gland, but, as a sling in perineo, supports it and the membranous part of the urethra. The -gland, which has, in shape, been compared to a chestnut, varies in size, being sometimes, at the sides, an inch, at other times, an inch and three-quarters long. It is usually an inch and an eighth long at the sides, and an inch in the median line. Its breadth varies from three-fourths to one and five- eighths of an inch. Usually, at the broadest part, it is one inch and a fourth ; but, more frequentl}', a little above rather than under that. It is about three-fourths of an inch thick ; but, occasionally, it is seven-eighths. From the side of the pros- tatic portion of the urethra, to the surface of the side of the gland, is from one-half to five-eighths of an inch. In its natural state, then, the gland is broader than it is long. i\s it extends a little higher at the sides than at the middle, it has been divided into two lobes, one on each side of the median line. Between these, at the upper part, there is often, but not always, seen, a little portion projecting upward. It is called the third lobe, and is exhibited by dissecting and turning down the vasa deferentia, or, rather, the common duct, formed by them and the vesiculae. The under end of ir. 2 E