430 portion turns in through the triangular fascia. It may be from half an inch, to three quarters, but, generally, it is nearer the former than the latter. We do not go deep here, for we have no object. If we separated the parts well, as we may on the dead subject, and inti’oduced the finger, with the nail uppermost, into the space here, between the accelerator and erector, at the origin of the bulb, we should have the back of the nail pressing up on the margin of the triangular fascia, the side of it on the accelerator, the edge of the nail on the membranous portion of the urethra, felt through the levator, and the front of the point of the finger on the pros- tate gland, covered also by the levator. Now, we wish to avoid the margin of the triangular fascia* or the transverse line, near the end of the bulb, for the artery of the bulb runs there. If we say that the bulb extends to about five-eighths of an inch of the anus, and that the urethra leaves it to pass through the fascia, nearly as much above the end of the bulb, we conclude that the incision does not require to be deep, more than an inch above the anus, and hence the artery of the bulb is safe. We may go so far as to separate the accelerator and erector, but not so deep as to expose the fascia. It is quite suflScient to separate or divide a little in the sulcus, between the muscles; but we never ought to go deep enough to detach them completely to the bottom. By the side of the bulb, we go quite to the levator, on which that part rests, but we do not go so near the accelerator as to injure it. We introduce two fingers into the wound, gently pressing the bulb to the other side, and the levator and rectum downward. From near the top of the bulb to the tuberosity, we go as deep as the levator, and fairly through all the cellular substance, or fat covering it, which is always more and moi'e as we go backward. In this, we recollect that the levator lies on the face of the rectum and its sides; and, therefore, we do not divide the muscle in that tract. In front, or in the tract before the anus, we press the muscle backward, and perhaps a little to the other side. At, and beyond the anus, we cut clear of the outer, or what, in the erect posture, would be the under surface of the muscle, pressing it a little towaid