171 and vital nerves lie, except at the top, to the front of this line, or in the inner subdivision; the cervical nerves, in the outer. In the consideration of the relation of tumours, we should recollect the natural course of the outer margin of the jugular vein, which is marked by a line drawn from the back of the mastoid process to the clavicle, at about an inch and one-eighth from the articulation. Any tumour situated in this line, or before it, must, if it go deep, have very important connexions, whilst such as are entirely behind it, even if deep, are chiefly connected with muscular nerves, and the deep muscles, covered, probably, more or less, by the trapezius. Tumours which are moveable, and beneath which we can trace the sterno-mastoid or trapezius, are situated either in, or just beneath, the platysma myoides. This may be thick- ened, and bind down the tumour, so that it may not be very moveable, and its margin may be very indefinite. But if, by relaxing the fascia, we find that we can move the tumour on the subjacent parts, and particularly, if we can trace the mas- toid muscle below it, or, when we feel the carotid artery beat- ing at the lower part of the neck, and can move the tumour without moving the artery, we may expect a comparatively easy operation. If the tumour be not hard, but either doughy or slightly tense, and perhaps appear a little lobulated, wheh the coverings are stretched, we may consider it as of the nature called adipose. In this case, even when extensive, the opera- tion is easy, and the only parts which can suffer, or will require attention, are the external jugular veins and cutaneous nerves. A free incision through the mere skin alone, deceives and embarrasses the operator, for the fascia still binds down the tumour, and, if he dissect back the skin, he does not well know where to say the margin is. If the fascia be at the same time divided, the tumour is exposed, and in part starts out. It is generally in a thin capsule, and adheres by a little cellular substance, so that scarcely any dissection with the knife is required ; the finger is sufficient, with the aid of an occasional touch of the scalpel. There is, however, often a kind of neck, or adherent base, which requires to be divided, and there an