,509 the heel is very thick, and continuous with the implantation of the tendo-Achilles. It is covered by dense cellular sub- stance, forming a firm cushion. But the foot is not merely thus enveloped in a fascia, but, from the main, or broad por- tion, there passes off, at each margin of the flexor brevis, a thin but distinct septum, which goes between it and the lateral muscles, to be connected with a deeper layer which crosses between the flexor brevis, and flexor longus. A thin fascia also separates these from the still deeper muscles. Next, we attend to the articulations. The tibia and fibula are connected by ligaments covering a synovial capsule. An ante- rior, proceeds downward and outward from the tibia to the fibu- la. A similar one is found behind. Both are flat and strong, and divisible into two fasciculi, a higher and a lower. Below the posterior, is a transverse band going from the end of the fibula to a small eminence on the tibia. The ends are join- ed by a short interosseous band. The tibia and fibula are in close contact at the malleolar articulation, for about an inch and a quarter, and the extremity of the latter projects down along the side of the astragalus for an inch. The tibial malleolar process, extends down, on the astragalus, for above half an inch. The interosseous space, at two inches and a half above the end of the fibula, is a little more than an eighth of an inch broad. The tibia and astragalus are connected by a synovial cap- sule, which is spread, as in other joints, over the articular cartilages, and also up a little way between the tibia and fibula. This is covered by ligaments and irregular fibres, constituting an outer capsule. The ligaments at the fibular side are three. The middle, or perpendicular, goes from the point of the malleolar process, to the side of tli^e os calcis. From the front of the lower part of the process, the anterior goes obliquely, forward and downward, to the fore part of the body of the astragalus. From the back of the peak of the fibula, there goes its posterior ligament, the strongest, obli- quely to the posterior part of the astragalus. This requires a little cleaning to be displayed, but all are involved in a fibrous layer, though not very distinct. At the inner ankle, the