12G trunk subdividing, like the artery at the top of the thyroid cartilage, into, the cerebral, or continuation of the inter- nal jugular, which, accompanies the internal carotid, lying to its outer side, and entering into, or issuing from the fora- men lacerum, and, secondly, the anterior division which is connected with the external carotid. It either entirely receives the facial vein, or there is such communication at the jaw with it, that even where the anterior external vein is large, the fascial may be said to end in the internal, as well as to form the external; and the temporal also may in like man- ner communicate with, if not terminate in the internal. The course of the internal jugular vein, considering the cerebral vein as its continuation, is that of a line drawn from the clavicle, at from one-half to seven-eighths of an inch from its sterno-clavicular articulation, up to the front of the mas- toid process or back of the condyle of the jaw. But this does not shew the depth from the clavicle, below, nor inward from the side of the jaw, or mastoid process, above. The jugular covers the scalenus, and in part the subclavian artery, before it passes between the scaleni. It .is itself at the under end crossed by the omo-hyoideus, and at the clavicle is covered by the sterno-thyroideus. On raising the jugular, the scale- nus is seen with the phrenic nerve on it. The diameter of the vein here is about three quarters of an inch. The tributary veins are not always very regular, but are naturally divided into the superior thyroid, the lingual, facial, pharyngeal, occipital, &c. The superior thyroid arises from the thyroid gland, and winds up nearly in the course of the artery, but is a little more outw'ard on the gland, and as it approaches the jugular, which it joins about the top of the thyroid carti- lage, it either covers its coxTesponding artexy, or is a little lower. It receives also a small vein, corresponding to the laryngeal artery, which runs lower than the artery. The thy- roid vein, like the artery, is covered by the sterno-thyroid muscle, &c. The thyroid often receives, or, if we change the language, •rives olF, both the sxxbmental and ranine. The former, which also often comes to, or goes from the facial, passes along the