225 ber, that the back part of the petrous portion corresponds to the back of the mastoid process, and its upper margin runs forward, from that, in a direction toward the root of the zygoma. If we propose, therefore, to trepan in the ti-act of this portion, we must go above that line. If we wish to trepan behind the petrous bone, we do so, just behind the mastoid process, and as far down as possible. In the NOSTRIL we have several points to observe. First, we remark the extensive surface of the mucous membrane, and the various cavities, and irregularities in which the secre- tion may be, for a time, detained. Next, the division of the nostrils by a septum, partly bony, and partly fibro-cartila- ginous, which embraces firmly the nasal spine of the maxilla; then, the situation of the turbinated bones, and the openings of the ducts and sinuses. The fibro-cartilaginous part of the septum, and the alae, are attached to the bone by fibres, and farther connected, more strongly, by a continuation of a fib- rous membrane from the one to the other, especially, on the inner surface of the aim. When this is relaxed, or torn, the cartilage may yield, a little, to one side, but, generally, the feeling of this is greater than the reality. The height of the nostril, from its floor, or palate, to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, is fully an inch and a half, and the length, from the root of the septum, at the maxillary bone, to the posterior margin of the bony palate, is nearly two inches. In the recent subject, the posterior opening of the nostril, is of a regular oval shape, fully three quartet's of an inch high or long, and half an inch broad, at its middle, or broadest part. On looking into it, we see the lowest, and middle spongy bones, the latter, ending about a quarter of an inch from the opening. The anterior opening of the nostril is three quar- ters of an inch long, and one quarter broad. On making a section of the nose, the first thing which is remarked, is the irregularity of the surface, caused by its three turbinated bones. The inferior turbinated bone, begins fiom thevery margin of the nasal process of the maxillary bone, nearly on a line,with the top of the bulging part of the alae, and luns straight hack, to the front of the inner lamella of the ptery-