381 them with one another laterally. Toward the thumb we see its extensors, whilst the back part of the fleshy web between it and the forefinger, is formed by the abductor indicis, run- ning downward and ulnar to the root of the finger, and by a part of the abductor pollicis, seen near the end of the os metacarpi pollicis, running more transversely. Toward the little finger we have its tendon, and between these margins we have those of the other fingers. The posterior interossei, are bound down by a thin fascia, and overlap the margins of the metacarpal bones a little way. The extensor tendons are each enclosed in a synovial sheath, which, at the knuckle, is lost by reflection, up on the tendon, so that this canal does not proceed down the finger. That portion of tendon which runs along the finger, is described as being attached to the bone, merely by loose cellular substance, but, in some in- stances, we observe somewhat the appearance of a synovial bursa. The tendon at each articulation, adheres to the syn- ovial capsule, supplying there the place of fibrous capsule. Its sides and dorsal surface, are identified with the fibrous I expansion which binds down the extensor tendons. For a firm fibrous expansion, connected with the deep anterior fascia and transverse ligaments, rises up from between the metacarpal bones, at their end, and becomes connected with the superficial aponeurosis there, and with the sides of the tendons. It continues down the fingers, attaching the sides ) of the tendons to those of the bones, where it is connected r with the implantation of the anterior sheath. It is also lost, as r was just noticed, in the dorsal surface of the tendons. These ; therefore, are not properly in a fibrous sheath, nor loose, like > those of the flexors, but rather attached at their margins, 1 though not tightly, to the sides of the bones they traverse, and therefore they must act on every part of the phalanx. On ] the last phalanx, the tendon is very thin indeed, and the corium is very near the bone. Under the nail, the bone is covered by a thick, tough, red substance, something like the soft hoof of the horse. This, which" is both vascular and nervous, is considered to be a modification of the corium, and at all events is identified with it. This overlaps a little