133 rrin of the vein may rise above the level of the sternum, or it may be nearly three quarters of an inch below it, even at the meitin line. It may be noticed, however, that in some cases, a strong tendinous band is stretched from one clavicle to the other, along the top of the sternum, and adhering to it, which adds apparently to the depth. I need scarcely add, that the vein crosses the root of the left subclavian and carotid arteries, and that of the innominata. The Lymphatics from the head and neck accompany the veins, particularly the internal jugular. An interlacement of these vessels, intermixed with small glands, runs down along both the front and outside of this vein. They are still more distinct, and larger, near the angle formed by the jugular and subclavian veins, and, there, they usually unite into a trunk, which, on the right side, enters the angle, as the thoracic duct does on the left side; but, sometimes, a detachment enters separately into the jugular vein. On the left side they join the duct. The trunk formed by the axillary lymphatics comes up on the face of the subclavian vein, and either enters it in front or joins the cervical trunk, forming a vessel about half an inch long, and not much less than the duct. Many glands exist in the course of these lymphatics; some are placed in the course of the external jugular vein, just under the platys- mal fascia. These are named the superficial glands, and, in health, are very small. The deeper are larger, particularly at the upper part between the thyroid cartilage and jaw, and at the lower part above the clavicle. Near the jaw they are met with, in varying size, from the chin back to the mastoid process, and are covered by the platysmal fascia. Some lie on or near the anterior belly of the digastric, and several lie on the surface of the submaxillary gland, one of which, in general, is larger than the others, and, as the facial artery turns over the jaw blade, we often find a gland which has the artery between it and the submaxillary. Two or more are found in the angle, formed by the facial and temporal or maxillary veins, and others on the external carotid arteries. A small gland often lies on the hyo-thyroid ligament, covered