69 ihe elevation and length of the artery, if we ever contemplate the application of a ligature to it; for if the representation of plates be attended to, the student and operator will be led to expect to find the artery much higher than it usually is. The right subclavian vein runs obliquely down by the right margin of the artery. The left subclavian vein, or the vena innomi- nata, crosses the root of the vessel in front, lying between it and the sternum. Its upper margin sometimes ascends as high as the margin of the sternum, but often is half an inch behind it. The distance from the bifurcation of the innomi- nata, to where it is crossed by the vein, is usually only five- eighths’of an inch, but it may be nearly an inch. Both the artery and vein have, in the young subject, the thymus gland interposed between them and the sternum. It quite covers the artery even when it rises above the sternum, extending, at the age of three years, more than half an inch above the bone, and being broader than the trachea. It extends down- ward on the face of the vein, and then of the pericardium, its horn reaching to an inch and three quarters below the margin of the sternum, and the gland in the mediastinum is about two inches broad. We can easily see, then, the serious consequences which may be produced by swelling of this gland, not only to the trachea, but to the great vessels, and the action of the heart itself. At this age, the artery rises from the aorta about a quarter of an inch below the top of the sternum, and is not quite an inch long. Its upper margin is level with the upper surface of the clavicle. In the adult, the flat uninjected artery is fully half an inch in diameter; but when filled, so as to be made cylindrical without being distended, it often is an eighth of an inch less. The distance of the face of the artery from the surface varies with the elevation, and with the natural thickness of the top of the sternum, and depth of the trachea. The trachea is at least five-eighths of an inch, sometimes nine-tenths, back from the inside of the sternum; and it quickly goes farther back, so that it is, more or less, as the line or probe is inclined more or less down from the horizontal direction. It is also