321 'I'he External cutaneous, passes down by the head of the humerus, partly to the outside, but still more to the front of the artery. It begins to enter the coraco-brachialis, opposite the neck of the bone, (though sometimes not for fully an inch lower) is soon buried in it, and comes out, on its opposite side, about an inch lower than its entrance. It then, for a little way, runs between this muscle and the biceps, covered by the inner margin of the latter, till it reach the brachieus interims, on which, covered by its thin fascia, it rests, and on which, it continues its course downward and outward, till it pass out, from under the biceps, by the outer margin of its tendon, or end of its belly, about an inch and a half above the head of the radius. Just before this, it lies, pretty deep, between'the margin of the biceps and face of the brachieus. It then proceeds to the fore-arm, running superfi- cially, but under the cephalic vein, for a time, in the course of the anterior margin of the supinator longus. About three inches below the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, or toward the middle of the arm, it gives off a large branch, the bi’achieus, which runs directly downward, whilst the trunk winds outward. It goes into the brachieus internus. When the cutaneous comes off from the median, it is generally below the fold of the axilla, running, for a time, by the outside of the median, and, after giving off the brachieus, it either passes through the coraco-brachialis, near its insertion, or through part of the biceps, or runs outward over the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and under the biceps. Thus, we see, that the superficial nerves of the arm are, at the inner and posterior part, down to near the elbow, the intercosto-humeral, and cutaneus minor, and sometimes a descending branch from the spiral. Near the elbow, we have, on the inside, branches from the internal cutaneous, aided by the termination of the cutaneus minor. The outer part, is supplied by branches from the spiral, aided perhaps, near the joint by twigs, from the external cutaneous. The muscles are supplied chiefly by branches from the spiral and external cutaneous, or sometimes by the median in place of it. 11. Y