125 lower, and is differently named according to the name given to the common artery, whose blood it returns, transversalis, supra-scapular, &c. A branch often communicates between this and the cephalic vein, passing under the clavicle, but sometimes over it. The highest branch comes from the back of the neck, and down from the occiput, and joins the former under the trape- zius. There is, at this part of the neck, as elsewhere, much irregularity in the course of the veins; but this we must be prepared for in the operation of tying the subclavian artery. We have often several veins, here, crossing the lower part of the neck. We may, close by the clavicle, have the external jugular vein sweeping along it. Then, a little within that, and perhaps a little higher, we have the transversalis humeri, crossing the subclavian artery, where it would be tied, going over the nerves and the scalenus, to the root of the jugular. Then, a little higher, we have the transversalis colli going also to the jugular. Seventh^ I have noticed how the anterior jugular is formed; but between the jaw and the os hyoides, it communicates with the internal jugular by a short cross branch, so that the facial may be said to end both in the external and inteimal, or, indeed, it often ends exclusively in the internal, the anterior external vein being wanting. There is no valve at the entrance of the external vein, into the internal jugular, or in the cross branch of communication, so that blood can flow as freely from the internal, into the external jugular, as from the latter into the former, except in so far as gravity or posi- tion are concerned. Sometimes there is no large external vein, but one or two small irregular branches return the blood from the surface. The external jugulars lie under the platysmal fascia, and have several branches of both the cuta- neus colli and supra-clavicular nerves ramifying over them, particularly over the posterior vein. Branches from the portio dura also extend over the upper part of the vein. Eighth, I attend next to the deep or internal jugular; and when we look at the trunk of this, it very much resembles the carotid artery. If we trace it up the neck, we find a common (