201 no cellular sheath like those of other voluntary muscles, neither do we find any fat in packets, but only a very fine lardaceous substance, in small quantity, interposed between the fibres. The tongue is covered by the mucous corium, and epider- mis, the former of which, on the under surface, is smooth and soft, but on the upper one, is firm and thick, and into this, the muscles, forming the substance of the tongue, are inserted, from its tip all the way back to its base, where the follicular portion commences. There, the covering becomes soft and thin, and thus extends to the os hyoides. The corium, here, is about an eighthof an inch thick, with irregularitiesor projections, arising from its substance to its surface. These are follicles, and the substance in which they are contained, is often of a yellowish colour, which seems to depend on a modification of the col- ouring part of the blood. Below the tonsil, and between the pillar of the fauces and tongue, or on the tongue there, the follicles have large apertures, or resemble a layer of glandular packets. If we remove from the under surface of the side of the tongue, pretty far back, its mucous membrane, we see, at the outside of the junction of the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus, an oblong layer of a glandular appearance, and which receives small branches from the fifth nerve. The dorsum of the tongue, exhibits, as already mentioned, both a papillary and follicular appearance. The former, when we make a perpendicular section of the tongue, seems to consist of minute elevations of the corium, covered by epidermis. But on better examination, it is found, that the extremities of the fifth pair of nerves, and farther back, those of the glosso-pharyngeal terminate in them, and are surrounded by a delicate vascular plexus and cellular matter. The papillas have been divided into different orders, but these are not al- ways distinct. The lenticular or largest, are described to be like inverted cones; they have a flattened tuberculated ap- pearance, somewhat of a pearl colour, and are often arranged in two bands, forming an angle with each other. The apex of this is at the foramen coecum, and, there, the bands divari-