412 Thus, in these well-marked cases, there might be said to be a circumscribed cavity between the rectum and gland, for a thin layer of fascia lines this. But they are really connected by cellular substance. Collection of matter may, however, take place here. The Urethra passes down on the outer surface of the tri- angular fascia, and turns in through it, when it, under the name of membranous portion, proceeds to the prostate gland. If we introduce a staff, and press from within the pelvis, at the pubis, we feel it through the pelvic fascia and two layers of triangular fascia; and if w'e go a little more backward, nearer the gland, we feel it under the pelvic fascia. The extent to which we can thus feel the staff, is, from the margin of the ligament to the gland, about five-eighths of an inch. The urethra passes tlu'ough the triangular fascia, about half an inch below the margin of the pubic ligament. The distance at which the urethra passes above the margin of the fascia, varies according to its depth. Sometimes it is close by the margin, sometimes nearly half an inch above it, but it is seldom so much. An expansion, or reflection of the inner layer, passes on with it to the prostate gland, on which it is lost, identifying itself with the reflection from the pelvic fascia. The canal of the urethra is thus fixed, and must main- tain a definite position. From the account given, it appears, that if we first peel off the peritonaeum, and then dissect or remove the pelvic fascia, at, and between the anterior ligaments, we should, just below the pubic ligament, expose the triangular fascia with the urethra on its outer surface, and then, near the prostate gland, we should find the membranous portion after it had pierced the fascia. But this is not the case, for I next re- mark, that under the reflection of the pelvic fascia, seen by dissecting it off, we find some blood-vessels, particularly veins, lying on the inside of the triangular fascia, and passing by the side of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder. But besides these, we observe muscular fibres extending back from the arch of the pubis on the upper surface of the urethra to the prostate gland. These we also find, passing down by the sides