492 divided, if the vessel is to be exposed high. If not, only its end may be cut. We have to go through glands and fat; but we do so, without injuring the gland or lymphatics, more than must be done by the mere incision. We do not detach them laterally, by cutting, but by gently pressing to each side, so as to expose and insulate the artery, which is very superficial. It is bounded on the pubal side by the vein, and on the ilial, by the anterior crural nerve. The profunda, most frequently, comes off at two inches below the ligament, from the back part of the artery. It lies to the ilial side of the vein, and, generally, obliquely to the ilial side of the artery. The two arteries are close together, and, therefore, we must be careful in our separation of the femoral, for we are not sure how high the other may rise. If it rise high, we may also, if we detached freely, injure the circumflex. The superficial epigastric artery and glandular twigs, coming from it or the femoral artery, are more or less injured, by the incision, and, in insulating the artery, we remember that these, and the origin of the external pudic arteries and circumflex ilii, require attention. In dissecting the ham, we see, involved in the fascia, a vein (saphena minor), which comes up from the outer margin of the tendo Achilles. It enters the popliteal vein, and is often accompanied by another, smaller. On removing the fasciaj which firmly covers this space, and in which these veins are involved, we see a quantity of fatty cellular substance, in which are embedded the vessels and nerves. The fibular nerve runs down sunk by tbe margin of the outer ham- string, and gets on the outer margin of the head of the gastrocnemius, and then turns over the fibula, immediately below its head. More in the median line, we have the greater division, or popliteal nerve. Then, a little deeper, and more inward, is the popliteal vein, covering the artery ; but, at the upper part, the artery is partially seen, being rather more ' inward. The upper portion of artery is covered by the semi- membranosus, and the lowest is partly hid by the head of the gastrocnemius. The intermediate portion is covered by fascia. The artery, after passing the triceps, lies on the back of the