313 deepest and tliickest from the first. It becomes superficial at the part already mentioned, and from this downward, covers the muscle. It is inserted into the upper and back part of the olecranon, along the whole breadth of the bone, and also extends over its posterior surface, and along its sides. The muscular fibres of the brevis, continue connected with the capsule behind, or may be said to rise from it. It ends at the olecranon, in a thin tendon resembling an inner layer of the other one, and is implanted just before or along with it; but the two, can generally, without violence, be separated. The inside of the arm is formed, behind, by the triceps lon- gus, aided by the brevis; by the side or margin of the biceps, before, and, between these, by the coraco-brachialis and brachieus, with the vessels and nerves on them, between the triceps and biceps. At the condyle the origin of the prona- tor, is interposed between the triceps brevis, and brachieus, but more in front than at the side. The margin of the bre- vis, at its connexion with the longus, is also bounded, for at least three inches above the condyle, by a firm fibrous strip, which is inserted into the condyle, and also is identified with, or lost in, the general deep aponeurosis of the muscles of the arm. From its edge, a thin layer of fascia dips down between the triceps brevis, and brachieus. This is the internal inter- muscular ligament. It is implanted not only into the end of the condyle, but also into all its upper ridge or margin, and identified with the superficial fascia, and also with the deep aponeurosis, which extends over the brachieus, and down the fore-arm, so as to form, there, a kind of an oblique boundary, more or less distinct, and capable of interrupting the exten- sion of pus, &c., in that direction. Ihe outer part, of the shoulder and arm, is formed by the deltoid, then, when that ends, by the margin of the brachialis internus, and supinator, which bound that of the triceps secundus here. From the insertion of the deltoid, till it meet the supinator, the margin of the triceps is in contact with that of the brachieus, which rises where the deltoid ends, and its thick outer margin descends much in the line of the deltoid insertion. A fibrous naiTow band, called the outer intermus-