147 The nerve also on this side is a little elongated, but it must have been still more stretched in the act of displacement. The vertebral artery on this side is a little bent back, whilst on the other side it is tightened and pressed forward, or, in some cases, ruptured. In the act of dislocation, the marrow is apt to be somewhat stretched. Reduction cannot be effected without elongation and bending a little to the other side; but there is no occasion to twist it in any degree to that side, in order to disengage the processes. There are still two important muscular nerves in the neck (besides the axillary) to be noticed, the phrenic and the accessory. The Phrenic nerve generally arises from the third cervical, but sometimes from the fourth. It receives slight additions from, or has connexion with, the fourth and fifth, and some- times the second cervical, also filaments from the eighth, and from the connecting loop between the descendens noni and cervicalis descendens. When it arises, as it usually does, from the third, it passes down a little way, between the rectus and scalenus, and then gets on the latter; and, as at this part the former encroaches on, or overlaps the latter a little, the nerve at its origin will soon appear towards the outer margin of the scalenus. When it arises from the fourth, this must still more immediately happen, and no part then goes between the rectus and this muscle. It comes in contact generally with the outer margin, about a little more than two inches, sometimes near 2| inches, in a direct line above the clavicle; but its actual origin is still higher, being in long-necked people nearly three inches and a half above the clavicle. It passes, nearly perpendicularly, down from the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrae, to a point of the clavicle, three quarters of an inch out from the articulation, but oblique with regard to the muscle which expands a little outward, and the tendency of the nerve is to the inner margin of the muscle, which it does not quite reach till it be ready to leave it. This it does as soon as it has got below the level of the subclavian artery, and near the end of the muscle; but sometimes it gets very near the margin, half an inch above the davicle. The muscle