257 In this course, it receives branches, corresponding to those, of the facial artery, and which are often double, that is, one runs on each side of the arterial ramulus, whilst the facial vein, itself, is single. The posterior facial or temporal vein, is formed by branches, corresponding to those of the temporal and maxillary arteries. The superficial temporal veins form a trunk which passes over the zygoma, just in front of the tem- poral artery, and continues its course in the parotid gland, as formerly noticed, receiving the maxillary, &c. Most of these deep veins are double, that is, there are two accompanying veins to each artery, in some, running along the upper and under, in others, the outer and inner, margins of the arteries. Thus we have two small dental veins: two with the arteria media duraematris, one before, another behind: often two with the transversalis faciei, &c. The trunk of the maxillary artery, is accompanied by two large comites, which, at the condyle of the jaw, partly hide it, one is higher, another lower, and this last, at the ramus, gets rather to the inside of the artery. The veins are so connected with the arteries, that if both be well injected, it is difficult to dissect their ramifications in the fossa, particularly behind the orbit. The NERVES of the face are two in number, the fifth, and the portio dura of the seventh. The latter seems exclusively intended for motion; the third division of the former, for both motion and sensation; the other two divisions for sen- sation. There are three branches of the fifth, for the upper, the mid- dle, and the lower division of the face. The First, passes at once into the orbit, and its distribution has already been no- ticed. I have only now to observe, that it supplies, in so far, the forehead and root of the nose, and canthus of the eye, and is the nerve on which the common sensibility of the eye depends. A certain degree of injury of it, seems also capable of producing amaurosis, ophthalmia, &c. Should it be thought advisable to divide the supra-orbitar nerve, on account of neuralgia, it may easily be done, by cutting to the bone, to the extent of about a quarter of an