340 below the bend. From the upper part of the condyle, the pronator is, partly, covered by the flexor radialis, but, at from a half, to three quarters of an inch, below the point where it meets the supinator, it is quite hid or covered by the flexor, which thus marches with that muscle. In this angle, so formed, is lodged the tendon of the biceps, with a little of the brachieus, seen between it and the supinator, on its outside. None is seen on the inside, till the pronator be drawn inward, or the vessels, &c., be removed, for, the space between it and that muscle, is occupied by the vessels and median nerve. The supinator is covered only by the com- mon deep fascia. The pronator is at, and a little above, the condyle, bound to the brachieus by strong aponeurosis. Lower, or at, and below the joint, it is bound to the tendon of the biceps, by the broad expansion of aponeurosis which rises from the face of the muscle, at its termination, and from the front and inner margin of the tendon. This tendon begins at the outer mai'gin of the muscle, about two inches above the bend, then, lower, the front is tendinous. The length of pure tendon, is about two inches and a quarter, and it is implanted into the posterior margin, of the tubercle of the radius, for an extent of more than half an inch, so that the tendon there is flat, and of that breadth. It is connected to the surface of the tubercle, by dense cellular substance. It marches with the upper margin of the main body of the supinator brevis, and is placed between it and the insertion of the brachieus. The oblique ligament passes between it and the flexor sublimis. The deep fascia of the arm, covering also the brachieus, more or less distinctly in different cases, involves the tendon like a sheath. Besides, we find, that the upper part of the supinator brevis goes off as a strip, about a quarter of an inch broad, which passes inward, behind, or under the biceps tendon, to the inside of the neck of the radius, where it is inserted tendinous, or, sometimes, the most of the strip resembles ligament. The upper margin of the body of the muscle, traverses the under margin or front of the tendon, which thus lies in a kind of fork, but the ends of this, arc so connected with a continua-