124 posterior margin of the sterno-mastoicl muscle; and in this case, it joins the posterior vein, at an angle here, or, it descends along the anterior mar gin of the mastoid muscle, and enters either the internal jugular or subclavian, at the sternum. It is formed by the anterior facial vein, which sweeps down over the submaxillary gland, and its branches; but often this vein ends in the internal jugular, and the anterior jugular is want- ing. The posterior jugular vein often winds forward close by the clavicle, and adhering to it. It either enters the inter- nal jugular, or unites with the anterior jugular, and enters the subclavian or internal jugular with it. The two anterior veins on the right and left, often communicate on the thyroid cartilage by a cross branch. Thirds The external jugulars often communicate with one another, as they are entering below the clavicle, or a little sooner. The posterior, and the anterior, by a small branch running parallel to the clavicle, and above it; the anterior by a pretty large transverse trunk, which crosses on the sterno- hyoideus, on a level with the clavicle. It is the transverse jugular vein. Fourth, Several cutaneous branches, of no great size, descend on the very front of the throat, forming a kind of network over the sterno-hyoideus, and ending in the transverse jugular where it exists, or in the anterior jugular, where it does not. These sometimes form about the middle of the neck, a small trunk which runs down, and is called the middle jugular. Fifth, From the back and sides of the neck, and lower part of the head, some branches descend, and form at the side, or rather latero-posterior region of the neck, a small trunk which ultimately winds forward like a supra-clavicular vein, and joins the posterior jugular. This vein, is also sometimes formed by the temporal, descending more backward. Sixth, This vein is often wanting, or does not arise so high, but generally two, come from the lateral part of the neck and shoulders, to join the external jugular, or to enter directly into the subclavian. The lowest comes from the shoulder under the trapezius, and parallel to the clavicle, running in the course of the arteria transversalis colli, or humeri, but