4 elastic ligamentous substance passing from one bone to another, so as to fill up the void, and complete the canal for the spinal cord. These substances are called the ligamenta subflava. Distinct small muscles also pass between the differ- ent processes, serving not only as moving powers, but also as efficient strengthening bands. These are the intertransversales and interspinales. Larger and more extensive muscles, also, surround, in every direction, the junction of the head and neck, and defend the annular ligament. The recti postici minores, run from the back of the atlas to the occipital bone, and keep in contact with one another. Next, flanking and adhering to their margins by cellular substance, are the recti majores, one on each side, arising fi-om the spine of the dentata, and inserted into the occiput, at the outside of the minores. From the same process, we have other two muscles which run not to the occiput, but the transverse process of the atlas. They lie to the outside of the larger straight muscles, and from their direction are called the inferior oblique muscles. A short thick muscle, extends from the transverse process of the atlas to the occiput, at the outside of the insertion of the rectus major. It forms a base to the two sides of a triangle, completed by the rectus major and inferior obliquus; and in this triangle, imbedded in cellular substance, is lodged the posterior branch of the sub-occipital nerve. Thus, the posterior part of the circle is completed. At the very side, we have the rectus lateralis, which is in contact with the posterior surface of the jugular vein, as it comes out of the foramen lacerum. It is inserted exactly on the inside of the foramen stylo-mastoideum. On the front, the rectus anticus minor, corresponds to the rectus posticus minor behind. It is inserted into the cunei- form bone at the anterior end of the condyle. The rectus major is a longer muscle, and partly covers one still deeper, the longus colli. Thus, the sides and front are secured also. The tendinous glistening oidgin of the scalenus medius, if that be considered as distinct from the posticus, can be traced along the front of the end of the transverse processes of all the vertebrae, up to the atlas, where it is hid by the belly of the digastric muscle and jugular vein. Raising the oiigin with