331 ought to be in the line of the anterior margin of the supina- tor, and, near the condyle, will traverse the cephalic vein, which is not to be wounded. A considerable space intervenes, at the top, between the margin of the supinator, and that of the biceps, occupied by the brachieus, which marches with the former. But at the joint, the margin of the supinator and ten- don of the biceps, are very near. Looking in the tract of our incision, for the margin of the supinator, we detach it, and turn it outward from the brachieus, when we see the nerve, with the spiral artery, and its venae comites. Its outer and inner superficial branches, are divided, by a short transverse incision, in their course already described. The trunk, near the axilla, is found, by cutting rather more inter- nally in the arm, than we would do, for exposing the artery. The nerve lies behind it. The Ulnar nerve is found, for some way above the elbow joint, behind the intermuscu- lar ligament, covered by a pretty strong aponeurosis. If we draw a line from the inside of the arm, at its middle, to the back part of the inner condyle, we have nearly the course of the nerve. By cutting in that direction, near the condyle, or by making a short incision from the back of the condyle upward, and a little forward, and separating the lips of the wound, we may see the ligament, but not the nerve, which is not displayed, till we cautiously slit up the aponeurosis, just behind the ligament. The relations of the nerve, to the arteria profunda inferior, has been described. These descriptions, may enable us, on the one hand, to j shun, in our operations, important parts, and, on the other, to form an opinion, as to what individual nerves, or vessels, have probably been injured in any particular wound. We also, in amputation, know where, at once, to look for the pi'incipal branches, and how they are placed with relation to nerves. In punctures of the brachial artery, with a small external wound, the blood is confined under the fascia, and produces a tumour, more or less prominent and extensive. Should that be opened, in place of tying the artery higher, we may expect, generally, to find the vessels and nerves, in their usual relations, both to the bone, and to one another.