294 any large branch. In this process, we may perhaps see the intercostal nerves insulated, in which case, if they be firmly involved in the glands, we should snip them across. To avoid the risk of dividing any thoracic branch high, where it would be difficult to tie it, we have been advised, after insulating the glands, to apply a ligature, around the upper part, or neck, of the mass, before cutting that across. This, doubtless, will, in so far, prevent haemorrhage; but it is not easy to apply the ligature, with certainty, beyond the diseased chain, and if we afterwards discover, and endeavour to pull away, a diseased gland, we are apt to remove the liga- ture. Farther, as the knot makes the part tied, somewhat tumid, and hard to the feel, we are not so sure, that no small diseased gland may not be left. Cleaning the cavity, and looking up, the arm being raised at a right angle to the body, the first, and most prominent object, is the great axillary vein, which is a continuation of the basilic, enlarged by tributary branches. Besides the cir- cumflex and infra-scapular and thoracic veins, we have the deep venae comites, of the brachial artery, entering. The largest of these, enters, at an uncertain distance above the margin of the subscapularis muscle, sometimes near it, some- times an inch and a quarter, or more, above it. The large basilic, lies farthest back, or most inward. • The smaller, or comes, lies more forward or outward, between the coraco- brachialis and the nerves, and the two meet at an angle, the space intervening between them, before their union, being variable. Beyond this, is the coraco-brachialis. In every point, the veins are the most prominent objects in the cleaned cavity. The upper margin of the tendon, and sheet, of the latissimus dorsi, when dissected, turns a little forward and downward, so, as to make the posterior fold of the axilla, still more oblique, or perhaps appear like a part of the cavity; and at the top of this margin, between it and the subscapularis, we see the infra-scapular vein entering into the basilic or axillary. It either hides its artery, lying on its face, or, some- times, is a little higher. The nerve is generally highest, lying either on the upper margin of the vein, or a little