217 The occipital artery, is hid by the parotid gland, in its re~ gion. The external cai'otid, passes up under or within the descending lobe, and enters the substance of the gland, per- haps near an inch and a half from its lower extremity, or about three quarters of an inch above the angle of the jaw'. In the gland it gives off the posterior auris, the internal maxillary, transversalis fasciei, and temporal. Hence it fol- lows, that so far as the arteries are concerned, we may raise up the parotid gland, for at least an inch, without injuring these. The superficial temporal vein crosses the root of the zygo- ma, and soon, if not immediately, enters the substance of the gland, passes down in it, sometimes to the extremity of the descending lobe, but in other cases, it comes to the inner surface of the gland, where the external carotid enters, and runs down between the substance of the gland, and the fascia which lines its descending portion, or, if in the proper sub- stance, it is very near the inner surface. In the substance of the gland, this, which is called the posterior facial vein, and which forms one of the external jugulars, receives the trans- versalis fasciei, and small masseteric veins, and often the inter- nal maxillary. At other times, the internal maxillary, or deep temporal vein, meets the artery, in the substance of the gland, and descends with it, within the styloid and digastric mus- cles, as accompanying veins, and enters the internal jugular. Sometimes the anterior facial is so far connected with the descending lobe, that it passes more in the course of the facial artery, along the upper surface of the submaxillary gland, and then under the fascia, on which the lobe lies, to enter the internal jugular. Next, with regard to nerves, the portio dura comes out of the foramen stylo-mastoideum, fully a quarter of an inch above the end of the mastoid process, consequently, lower than the meatus. It enters the gland behind the posterior facial vein, and speedily divides into its different branches. It is so strong, and so intimately connected with the gland, that, as it is passing into it, by a hook put under it, we can easily raise the head. The superficial temporal, from the