384. nail, &c. There may also be varied combinations of the inflammation of different parts, or, technically, of the diffe- rent species of whitlow, in different individuals, and in some, the disease has been described as of a malignant nature. The practice has often been empyrical, and therefore of a very opposite nature. When one Anger is affected, pain is often felt also in others, from the communication of nerves, and, thereby, even inflammation may be produced in another Anger. I next attend to the articulations, and first, of the thumb with the trapezium. This is effected by a simple capsule, which admits of more or less motion, in every direction. When the thumb is dislocated, by bending it back, and throwing the upper end of the metacarpal bone forward, we find the back part of the top of that bone lying on the pos- terior half of the articulating surface of the trapezium. The front, if not the greatest part of the capsule, is torn, and, if its outer and inner portion be not lacerated, they must be greatly stretched, and bind the one bone against the other. The muscles of the ball are pressed by the head of the bone, and the tendinous origin of the flexor brevis, from the ulnar side of the trapezium, is stretched. The extensor ossis metacarpi is somewhat stretched, so is the extensor secundi internodii, if it do not start from its channel. The reduction is accomplished by moderate extension, bending the thumb inward, and pressing the head of the metacarpal bone outward. Direct extension cannot succeed, but bending the thumb rolls the bone over the resting point. The facility of reduction is greatest when the capsule is most extensively lacerated. We may, if other means fail, bend the thumb still moi'e back- ward, and draw it in that direction, so as to pull it a little more on the trapezium, and then, still keeping up the exten- sion, bend it forward, so as now to roll the bone into its place. When the metacarpal bone is thrown backward, the relative position is just the reverse. The higher fibres of the flexor brevis may be torn. The manipulation is also to be reversed, whilst we extend. When we find it difficult to reduce, but succeed at last, there is reason to believe that we