378 carpal bones. From this, the back wall of the sheath is formed, which adheres to the capsule of the joint, but does not pass much farther, the rest of the tract being formed on the periosteum, covei-ed by synovial membrane. The front, again, is formed by the expansion from the cross fibres already noticed. It is strong, and implanted all the way down the phalanges into the sides of the flat groove on their face. The synovial membrane, then, lines the whole of this canal, whether formed by periosteum or fibrous mem- brane, and encloses the tendon; but it does not, in general, communicate with the synovial sheath in the palm, being at the end of the metacarpal bone, reflected from the groove, or canal, to the sheath, thus forming a shut sac. The remaining description of the palmar aponeurosis may now be understood. It not only sends septa, at the end of the meta- carpal bones, down, to be identified with the interosseous fascia, and gives origin, from its transverse fibres, to the sheaths of the flexor tendons, but, at each side of the top of first phalanx it is implanted into the side of the groove, and at the same time into the side of the sheath, consequently, not by abrupt, well defined, tongues or slips. Hence w^e understand the effect of chronic inflammation, or contrac- tion of the aponeurosis, in producing permanent flexion of the fingers, not merely as Dupuytren supposes, by acting on the phalanges, but also on the sheaths of the tendons, and disease may extend more or less down these sheaths. A transverse division of the aponeurosis, even at the end of the metacarpal bone, may not be sufficient in all cases. In some, an additional one, higher in the palm, in others, lower, on the phalanx itself, may be required. The muscles may be divided into those which form the two margins, and those found, w'ith the tendons, in the palm between these. The thickest and strongest muscular margin is at the thumb. There, the most superficial is the abductor pollicis, which rises from the middle of the carpal ligament, but not all the way to the under margin, for there the flexor brevis rises. Its origin extends obliquely outward. Often, a little of the next layer, or flexor ossis metacarpi, projects