474 much in the latter. The distinction laid down is, that, in intra-capsular fracture, the shortening is from one to two inches; whilst, in the extra-capsular, it is rarely an inch, and often very little. Immediately after the injury, espe- cially if the weight of the body have not been sustained by the limb, there may be very little difference in the length ; but, when the muscles come to produce the full effect of their action, which may not be for some days, then the greatest degree of what may be called the primary shortening is produced This, in the extra-capsular fracture, is little, if at all, increased afterwards; but, in the intra-capsular, there is a secondary shortening from the absorption of the neck, so that the limb is much shortened. This can be effected within two months. We, in forming a diagnosis between the two species, consider other circumstances besides the difference of length. The intra-capsular fracture occurs from comparatively slight causes, is attended with less pain, and occurs at a more advanced age. Extra-capsular fracture may also be produced by a mere fall; but, generally, it requires more violence than the former, is attended with more pain, and more likely to be complicated with serious bruising. I have seen extensive extravasation about the muscles, on the inside of the ilium, as well as around the joint. Next, although almost universally the toes be turned out, yet the contrary may take place. It is easy to see how this may happen, if the fracture be situated be^'ond the insertion of the deep rotators outward, whilst the gluteus maximus, &c., from bruising, may have their action partially suspended. In these cases, the anterior portion of the gluteus medius, and minimus, and the tensor, may roll inward. But it has been ascertained, that inversion may occur also in intra- capsular fracture. This has been attributed to partial laceration of the capsule^, or to the end of the neck being placed on the ilium, as in dislocation, or to the direction of the force; but, I believe, we must attribute it rather to the activity of the rotators inward, whilst those outward are impaired in their powers. Irritation, or pressing up of the