292 sometimes on tliat of the nerve. The artery winds back, a lit- tle below the neck of the humerus, and under the deltoid, in which it lamifies, and also sends twigs to the capsule, and the muscles implanted round the head of the hone. It anasto- moses with branches of the infra-scapularis, and thoracica humeraria. The anterior circumflex, goes round by the front of the bone. It is, generally, a branch of the posterior, or great cir- cumflex, sent off between the teretes, but it may also arise from the axillary. It goes close by the neck of the bone, under the coraco-brachialis, and short head of the biceps, and, also, under the tendon of the long head, by the side of which, it sends a branch up to the capsule. The connexion of these branches, with the ramifications of the transversalis colli, and transversalis humeri, is important to the continuation of the circulation, after tying the subcla- vian artery. The retrograde course also of the blood, by the thoracica humeraria, when that remains pervious, whereby it may enter into the sac, may also be understood. The course is less direct from the other thoracics. In this front view, then, of the axilla, we see, that from the portion of the artery, which is between the subclavius and pectoralis minor, and which is included between the heads of the median nerve, no spot is bare or uncovered by nerves. Even, that portion, is often traversed by a small head of the median. But there are varieties often met with, which, if trusted to, would invalidate this description. For, we fre- quently have only two heads of the median nerve, and, thus, have more of the upper part of the artery bare. Farther, these two heads meet, sooner or later, in different cases, and their junction is formed more in front, in one case, and more to the inside of the artery, in another. Neither do the heads always unite, when they meet, but are often, even down to the top of the arm, connected, only, by cellular substance, sometimes so loose, as to allow a narrov/ line, of the face of the artery, to be seen between them, when they are cleaned; and this line, may go to the joint, so, that if there be three heads to the nerve, we see, first, above the small head, when