I 121 o-ives off a transverse branch, which goes outward over the scaleni and levator, parallel to the cervicalis superficialis, but higher. The only remaining trunk to be described is the Inferior Thyroid, which gives off several of the branches already noticed. It is given off from the face of the subclavian, sometimes before the vertebral, but generally just after it, and before the artery enters the scaleni. On raising the jugular vein, the scalenus is seen, and the thyroid artery, or axis thyroidea, as it is called, comes off just at its tracheal margin. It immediately divides into a lash of branches; one runs downward and outward on the scalenus, towards the clavicle, the transversalis humeri; another goes upward by the inner margin of the scalenus, the thyroidea ascendens, which often comes off by a common trunk with tlie cer- vicalis superficialis that crosses the scalenus; and these have been all described, and the case noticed, in which the trans- versalis colli, or posterior scapular artery, comes off with the cervicalis superficialis, and then the ascendens often comes off separately. But the regular branches are the trans- versalis humeri, the cervicalis superficialis, the cervicalis ascendens, and one still to be noticed, the ramus thyroideus, which winds upward and inward to the thyroid gland. These four branches sometimes come off distinctly from the axis or trunk, sometimes two come off together by a common branch. Sometimes the axis is directed inward, and the ramus thy- roideus seems to be its continuation. It curves inward and upward towards the gland, and the other branches, though large, seem'only branches, whilst this is the trunk. In other cases, the axis or trunk is directed outward, and instantly gets on the scalenus, in a direction upward and outward, and arches on it and over the phrenic nerve, and under the aponeurosis, which covers the cervical plexus and the levator. It is continued under the branches of the cervical nerves. T-his trunk, then, at its origin, and for a considerable way, IS as large as the facial artery, and, in these cases, forms both the posterior scapular artery and superficial cervical. Near its origin it gives off’, towards the tracheal side, a branch which