82 then there may be digging and difficulty in the sequel. But if the mastoid be taken as a guide, or the incision be carried down by the side of the larynx, without directing the blade on the cartilages, or so much toward them as to wound the sterno-thyroid muscle, the vessel cannot be missed. There is another possibility still of going wrong, which is, that the incision being neatly made, and just between the muscles, the dissection is not px’osecuted perpendicularly or directly down by the side of the cartilage, but rather obliquely outward, tending under the mastoid muscle, which will lead the opera- tor away from the artery altogether, and he will come on the vein, or even get beyond it. It is also necessary to recollect, that sometimes .a pretty large lateral thyroid vein, passes from the gland, across the carotid artery, to the internal jugular vein, and this is sure to be divided, if the operator be inat- tentive. When the muscles are separated, the sheath does not always appear; but there is exposed a sheet, more or less broad, of muscular fibre, going obliquely down over the vessel. This cannot be any part of the sterno-thyroid, for it is deeper, and that muscle has already been passed. It is the omo- hyoideus, which is descending more or less obliquely, according to the height at which we have exposed it, and its obliquity in the individual. It is to be either drawn inward toward the trachea with a blunt hook, or upward and outward, according to circumstances. The thin expansion of fascia which passes over the vessel is now exposed, and this is to be divided by first raising it a little by the dissecting forceps. The sheath is now distinctly seen, and is to be opened by raising it with the forceps from the face of the artery. By doing this, quite on the front of theartery, we are sure to be clear ol the eighth nerve. By sponging the part dry and clean, we see that we are clear of the descendens noni, which is rather to the outside of the artery, sometimes exterior to, sometimes enveloped in, the substance of the sheath. The sheath being opened, is to be slit up for half an inch with the scalpel, either by still holding it with the forceps, or by introducing a probe or director into the opening already made. The artery is to be fairly and cleanly exposed within the sheath for about half an inch. The outside of