35 experiments of Favier, that it is sufficient to make an opening in the trachea, and it shall be blown out as regularly and quickly as it is put in. These, indeed, to the fullest extent, justify the performance of tracheotomy, but we are not to expect that instantly the substance shall be expelled; for, as I have found in the rabbit, it may be retained for a short time. Very soon, however, the animal coughs, and the sub- stance, a small lead shot, for instance, is thrown out on the table. A longitudinal incision is more convenient than a O transverse one, and heals better. It does not require to be kept distended, in order to let the substance out, if the external wound be so patent as to allow breathing to go on for a minute or two by the aperture in the trachea. Less danger from subsequent inflammation is to be apprehended than from the continued presence of the body. If the sub- stance be not large, laryngotomy wiU be equally effectual. It has been disputed whether laryngotomy or tracheotomy were the preferable operation. I believe, in all cases where we merely wish to admit air, the first is the best, being most easily performed. In the adult, tracheotomy requires a deep incision, and it cannot be less than two inches long. At the sternum the sterno-thyroidei when relaxed, sink three quar- ters of an inch deep from the surface of the exposed bone. The trachea here is an inch, sometimes more, from the surface of the bone. To this we must add the thickness of the skin and cellular substance. Now, although we do not, and ought not to, come so far down as the sternum, yet even higher there is a gi’eat depth, and often a consider- able bleeding; for, after separating the sterno-thyroidei and hyoidei muscles of the opposite sides from each other, and dividing the fliscia which lies below them, we come into a lax cellular substance, very vascular, and deep enough to make an extensive incision necessary, in order to see and tie the vessels. Then, without careful examination, we may divide a pretty large vein, which often ascends in front of the trachea to the tliyroid gland, and sometimes a large th}Toid artery runs, in the same direction, up from the innominata. The innominata itself sometimes rises high, and the right carotid