215 for from a quarter to half an inch, connected to it by fascia, and passes through the muscle, at last, in a slanting direction, to open on the inside of the cheek, on a level with the margin of the gum of the upper jaw, opposite the anterior margin of the second grinder from behind. A small silver probe can be admitted into the duct, but its orifice is contracted, so that it only admits a small wire, or one of Anel’s probes. The course of the duct, is in a line drawn from the top of the lobe of the ear, to a little below the wing of the nose. It runs about an inch below the zygoma. The transversalis artery is higher, and different branches of the portio dura run forward, some with the duct, and the largest, either in a manner covers the artery, or is a little lower. The transver- salis veins accompany the artery, but are sometimes near the duct, and the facial vein crosses its very extremity, at the buccinator muscle. Farther. The gland sinks down between the meatus auditorius, root of the condyle, and zygoma, plunging deeply into the hollow formed between the ear and the jaw bone, and adheres firmly to the parts it is in contact with, the root of the zygoma, the meatus, the capsule of the joint, and it even winds, a very little, under, or within the ramus of the jaw. It will simplify the farther consideration, to notice, first, the relation to the fascia. The gland has no distinct or pro- per capsule. The exterior or anterior surface, is covered by the platysmal fascia, firm and strong, constituting what is called the parotid fascia, which is merely the fascia of the face, strong at this part. We shall best understand the relation of the fascia to the gland, by tracing it up from the neck. We find, that when it reaches to the inferior extremity of the gland, it passes over it as an exterior covering, extending backward to the mastoid muscle, and forward, and upward, over the chin and face. Besides this main or outer sheet, there is given off an inner layer, which passes up along the under surface, of the descending lobe of the gland, and under that part which extends below the mastoid muscle. It is, toward the front, lost in the septum, which divides the parotid