169 tion of the innominata. Hei*e it is often imbedded in glands jind cellular substance. It then goes on first by the outer mar- o-in of the innominata, and then behind it. It seldom goes on alone to the cardiac plexus, but generally at the lower margin of the subclavian artery, meets the great cardiac branch of the sympathetic, and seems to form the largest por- tion of the cardiac nerve. On the left side, it comes off nearly as on the right, perhaps a little lower. It goes down close by the trunk, at the outer margin of the carotid, which should be attended to, if we be obliged to tie that artery low. By the time it gets below the clavicle, it is more on the front of the artery, and then on the aorta. It is not necessary here to notice the farther distribution of the eighth nerve, in the thorax and abdomen, but only to advert to its essential importance. The division of the nerve on one side of the neck, in quadrupeds, is seldom productive of any troublesome, far less fatal effects. But if those on both sides be cut, and particularly if a small portion be removed, to prevent immediate reunion, the animal dies. Rabbits sel- dom live beyond twenty-four hours. The first and immedi- ate effect, is similar to that produced by dividing the recur- rent; but it is more rapid, and to a greater degree. The lungs, after death, are found of a red colour, and often gorged with blood; the bronchiae are more or less filled with frothy fluid, and there is effusion of serum into the thorax, and sometimes into the pericardium. The pleura costalis is more vascular, and so is the diaphragm. The liver is darker in colour, and more turgid, and even the intestines are some- times more vascular. The stomach, if the animal have ate, is distended, but its coats are not red. The food is undigested. • O There is, however, a difference in the rapidity, and in the degree of the effects, in different animals, one cause of which may be, that in some, the sympathetic furnishes more branches than in others, which depend chiefly on the eighth. Those animals which can vomit, generally do so, or attempt to do so, immediately after the nerve is cut. We cannot tell what the consequence of dividing one nerve would be in man, for when this has been done, there has always been other injury. I