308 riie infra, but especially the supra-spinatus are elongated, the latter sometimes torn across, or separated from its connexion with the back of the scapula. If not lacerated, it pulls the head of the bone against the glenoid margin, and fixes it there. If we roll the humerus inward in this dislocation, we may stretch a little the teres minor, and must stretch the spinati muscles, particularly the supra-spinatus, also the coraco-brachialis, and coraco-humeral ligament. Rolling the bone outward, stretches the subscapularis and teres ma- jor. In pronation, we tighten the biceps. From these pre- mises, it follows that we ought neither to roll the arm much outward nor inward, though the latter may, after suitable extension, tend to roll the head of the bone over the glenoid margin into the cavity, and that it ought to be raised, and the fore-arm semi-bent, or, if extended, it ought not to be decid- edly prone. This is different fx’om the opinion of Dr. Crampton, who found he could not reduce, till he produced pronation, and turned the whole arm inward. Dislocation forward, must be always primary, for, if the subscapulai'is be not torn across, the head of the bone goes out, by its upper, instead of its under margin, as in the common dislocation. The muscle is elevated, and curved over the head and neck of the bone. Both spinati are stretched, but the supra, less than in the dislocation down- ward. The head of the bone is placed on the cervix of the scapula, near the root of its coracoid process. The vessels and nerves are pressed a little nearer the thorax. VVe ought, first, to make extension in a direction somewhat back- ward, the arm not being quite so much elevated as in the ordinary case. Then, we roll the arm inward, to relax the subscapularis, at the same time, that we bring it forward, and press with the hand in the axilla, to aid the return of the head into the socket. The rotation, even to a slight degree inward, and the carrying forward of the arm, must stretch the spinati, but if this be not done, till the head of the bone be on a line, or nearly so, with the margin of the glenoid cavity, they will tend to draw it in. We can do no good by rolling outward, for then we tighten the subscapularis.