450 keep the testicle covered, but also inflames it greatly, and adds much to the hazard. We should conduct the operation on the principle already laid down ; and, if the sac he opened, the incision ought not to be larger than is just necessary. Sometimes the intestine is constricted pretty low in the sac, and, in that case, it must he opened farther. There is a variety of this hernia, where a herniary sac pro- trudes into the tunica vaginalis, so that the bag is double. The next point for consideration is, the crural ring, or what ought rather, to prevent mistake, to be called the crural sac, or funnel. If we look at the inside of Poupart’s liga- ment, in situ^ we observe, just at the pubal side of the vein, a very slight depression of the peritonaeum. On removing that membrane, we see that the fascia dips down there, so as to form a funnel, or pouch, generally about three-eighths of an inch deep, from the margin of Poupart’s ligament, but some- times double that. If we trace the fascia from the ti’ansver- salis muscle, we find that it expands on the crescentic im- plantation, and extends a little beyond it. Then it dips down as described, and is reflected upon the vein, and then back again into the pelvis. If we trace from the pelvis, we find it going down on the pectineus, and then sending a layer up in front, to Poupart’s ligament. In one w^ord, the fascia forms a sac between the vein and crescentic implanta- tion, and the aperture, or mouth of this, is nearly circular, whence its name, and about three-eighths of an inch in diameter. The pubal margin is considered to be bounded by the crescentic implantation, or Gimbernat’s ligament; but it is really formed by the fascia, which extends a little more ilial than that implantation. In like manner, its front is said to be formed by the posterior border of Poupart’s ligament, and certainly this braces most firmly the anterior margin of the orifice. The ligament here is broad, forming a floor, on which the cord, or round ligament lies, and the posterior border of this, arches off, to form the crescentic implantation. The distance of the pubal margin, from the tubercle, varies from three-quarters of an inch to an inch and a quarter, which is a very common distance. The mouth is