317 times, it rises separately from tlie spiral, or the trunk forming it, and runs down, covered by the great vessels and the axillary nerves, till it reach the margin of the subscapularis muscle. It then winds backward, between the anterior margin of the first head of the triceps, and the bone, and between the ter- etes. Here, it divides into three large branches, which divari- cate, considerably, by the time they reach the anterior margin of the triceps. The middle branch, goes back into the del- toid, passing between the triceps and teres minor. The ante- rior, goes also into the deltoid. The posterior, gives filaments to the subscapularis, and proceeds to the infra-spinatus. The circumflex artery is farther forward, or nearer the joint than the nei’ve. The vein sometimes covers the nerve, being far- ther back than the artery. Some nerves, important in operations, have been already noticed in the axilla. The intercosto-humeral, from the second and third dorsal, pierce the intercostal muscles, between the second and third, and, particularly, the third and fourth ribs, and not only ramify and intermix in the axilla, but from the kind of plexus thus formed, a slender branch descends across the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and thence, quite subcutaneous, downward and backward, over the triceps, for at least half way down the arm, or, we find two distinct nerves come out, at different spaces, the highest, going on the posterior part of the triceps, the lowest, coming out between the fourth and fifth ribs, more forward on the chest, at the margin of the pectoralis major, goes to the axilla, and down on the forepart of the triceps. The first of these, often receives a communicating branch from the second. Another, and often larger nerve, rises very high from the root of the spiral nerve, descends behind the axillary vein, gets on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, more forward than the former branch, runs down the arm, on the inside of the brachial vein, till about the middle of the arm, where it leaves it, going backward on the triceps, all the way to the back of the inner condyle, or, it, sometimes, a little above the condyle, joins the inner division of the internal cutaneous nerve. For a considerable way down, it is under the fascia. It is named