145 dition of the supra-clavicular nerve. The more outward branch runs on the trapezius, toward the shoulder. It is the supra-acromial nerve, and it speedily divides, also, into many branches, distributed about the acromion, deltoid muscle, and the more outward glands in the neck; and hence when these are swelled and tender, or press on branches passing between them, pain is felt in the shoulder. One branch, which is so far forward that it might be claimed by the supra- clavicular, passes down some way first on, and then to the out- side of, the cephalic vein; another passes outward, parallel to the acromion, and then winds over it, and down on the del- toid muscle; others pass more backward over the trapezius. All these communicate with the neighbouring branches from other nerves, and many of the extreme twigs are interested in injury of the shoulder, and become very sensible in certain states of disease. Thus the neck is supplied with its more superficial nerves. But I must next notice, that there are also given off, some nerves which are distributed more deeply, and belong more exclusively to the muscles. These do not always arise in the same way, but, usually, a deep muscular branch is given off from the trunk of the sub- cutaneous nerve just described. This generally divides into two, or these may arise separately, either from the subcutaneous nerve, or from a distinct trunk coming off between the scaleni, from the third cervical nerve, or from the lower part of the cervical plexus. One division, the subclavicular, runs outwards and downwards along the levator scapulae, and under the trapezius. It runs deep by the outside of the fourth cervical nerve, passing in the direction of a line drawn from the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae, at three inches and a half below the mastoid process, to the clavicle, about two inches and three quarters from its sternal end; when near the clavicle, the nerve ramifies under the trapezius, some branches going under, some over, the levator. The second division is more irre- gular, sometimes a mere twig from the first, sometimes fur- nished by a lower nerve. It is the deep cervical nerve, and runs more directly downward on the scalenus, in front of the II. L