371 pliable fibres, to the styloid process of the former, round ■which, as a centre, it plays, or revolves, in the rotation of the radius, with which it is identified. A strong capsule passes down from the radius and ulna to the carpal bones, all round, and consequently that portion which descends to the cuneiforme, is connected with the marofin of the interarticular cartilage. This is strengthened at the sides by additional bands, called the lateral ligaments, which of course lie deep, quite on the capsule. The external, or radiocarpal, rises from the styloid process of the radius, and becoming broader as it descends, is inserted into the side of the scaphoides, and trapezium and general capsule. The internal, rises from the styloid process of the ulna, adheres, in its descent, to part of the margin of the inter- articular cartilage, and goes to the cuneiforme, and even forward to the pisiforme. Transverse bands also go between the two bones, at their extremities, both before and behind. • There are two joints at the wrist. If we cut through the capsule and lateral ligaments, close by the carpal bones, we expose the great joint intended for flexion and extension of the hand. It is lined by synovial membrane, which covers the carpal bones, the cartilaginous extremity of the radius, and the under surface of the interarticular cartilage. The other joint is for i-otation. The upper surface of the interarticular cartilage is covered with synovial membrane, which is reflected over the under surface of the ulna, ascends up on the smooth articulating surface of the ulna, to the top of the sygmoid fossa of the radius, down which it passes, till it reach again the interarticular cartilage. There is, then, no communication between the great and the little carpal articulation. The pisiform bone is articulated to the projecting face of the cuneiform, by a fibrous capsule, which allows of a little motion. The posterior annular ligament is a fibrous band, more than half an inch broad, extending not quite transversely, but slightly downward, from the radius to the ulna. It is covered by the superficial fascia, whilst the deep fascia, or