on our guard. 1 he thx*ead being passed, the vessel is to be tied with sufficient firmness. Any vessel which bleeds during the operation should be secured, as soon as divided, by the ligature, if it be necessary; by pressure with the finger, if more incon- siderable. This not only saves blood, but prevents the parts from being obscured by blood. The dissection may also be facilitated by the use of curved blunt hooks, to draw the parts asunder. The operation being finished, the lips of the wound are to be kept together by adhesive plaster, over which we retain a pledget of lint by means of two broad slips of plaster. The neck should be kept relaxed. In performing the operation, it is of importance not to go farther down along the artery than is absolutely necessary, and to disturb the parts within the sternum as little as possible. The after-treatment must be con- sidered on general principles. I have only to add, that although the operation ought not to be difficult to an anatomist, yet any one who has not studied the parts shall be disappointed at the depth to which he will be obliged to go, even in exposing the sterno-hyoidei muscles, and there is under these a considerable quantity of cellular substance, with many small vessels. He will find the dissecting forceps of service in raising tliis; but he should not cut any of this out, if he can avoid it. The finger will be a good assistant to his eye in finding the vessel. The danger of this operation does not depend merely on the obstruction to the circulation, or the disturbance of the action of the heart, by tying a trunk so near it, nor on inflammation or suppuration in the wound, or injury of the nerves, but also in part on a cause which no care can pi’event, namely, the con- stitutional effect of tying an important artery (vol. I. p. 468). '^riie right carotid artery, comes off from the innominata at various heights and points, and resembles a continuation of the upper margin of the latter. Looking, therefore, at its tracheal margin, and at the oblique course of the innominata, we often find that its course should be described by a line drawn from the middle of the top of the stermmi to the angle of the jaw. In some instances, the whole diameter of the artery arises thus far median, the innominata bifurcating early. In general, however, the division takes place at the sterno-