39 stricter superior; lower is the medius, and still lower the inferior, close on the vertebra or fascia longitudinalis. The longus colli runs up by the side of the pharj^nx, and a firm thin fascia passes off from the one to the other, so as to secure the pharynx in its place, more fully than by the mere cellular attachment, behind, to the spine. In pharyngotomy, if the tube be not fairly opened, but only the fascia, the parts may be detached to a very unnecessary and hurtful degree. The constrictor medius is in one part the most easily exposed in a dissection of the throat, for it is at once found at the extre- mity of the os hyoides; on merely removing the cervical fascia, a portion of it may be seen there, but on pressing up the digastric, more of it is exliibited. The hyo-glossus is found going up from the os hyoides to the tongue, within the mylo- hyoideus. Just behind the posterior margin of the hyo-glossus, the constrictor medius is seen, and it goes a little way within the hyo-glossus, so as to look like a deeper layer of that muscle. On this part of the constrictor, which is so easily exposed, we find, running forward, the laryngeal artery and nerve, which are connected to its surface by cellular substance. As the distance between the horns of the os hyoides is above an inch and three quarters, and that between the margin of the thyroid cartilage, about an inch and a half, it is evident, that the lateral diameter of the pharynx, in their tract, must be nearly as great, but it is less in its antero-posterior diameter when undistended. If we fill the pharynx and oesophagus with tow, without preternaturally distending them, we find that the. former, opposite the top of the thyroid cartilage, measures, in its lateral diameter externally, an inch and a half, and an inch in its antero-posterior diameter; at the cricoid carti- lage, it measures an inch both ways, and the oesophagus continues of the same extent. These parts, however, are capable of more distention, and also of change of shape as well as of relaxing. The distance of the end of the phar- ynx, where stricture is most frequent, or the low^er end of the cricoid cartilage, from the front teeth of tlie upper jaw, niust vai*y with the length of the neck. In short-necked males, Jt may be barely five inches, whilst in those who have long necks