54 or ends about an inch and a quarter before the angle of the jaw. Its line of origin is oblique, for at the front, it is only a quar- ter of an inch above the margin of the bone, whilst behind, it is seven-eighths. It is also broader above, than at its inser- tion into the body and side of the os hyoides. For, at the top it is an inch and three quarters broad, whilst below it is only an inch. In large subjects, the whole muscle is sometimes broader. In slender subjects, the insertion may be only three quarters of an inch broad. It forms a back or rest along the os hyoides, to the tendon of the digastric; and, indeed, at fii’st sight, the posterior part of the muscle seems to be going downward and forward, to be inserted into the digastric. Dividing the mylo-hyoidei, we find at the chin a third layer formed by the genio-hyoidei, going in the same direction with the anterior bellies of the digastrici, only more down- ward, as they arise higher within the mylo-hyoidei, which thus are in front, enclosed between them and the digastrici. The hyo-glossus arises from the very front and whole of the body, and anterior part of the horn, of the os hyoides. It forms a broad sheet, which mounts up to be inserted into the side of the tongue. It is inserted from behind the anterior pillar of the fauces, near the root of the tongue, forward to very near the frenum. The two hyo-glossi are in contact only at their origin, for as they mount nearly directly up, the genio- hyo-glossus, which runs down obliquely to the os hyoides, gets between them. The anterior margin is situated about an inch and three quarters from the angle of the jaw, and cannot be connected with the tongue farther forward than the frenum. The posterior goes up near the end of the horn of the os hyoides, and from this part we can trace upward and back- ward, what at first appears to be a continuation of the muscle. But it is a distinct muscle, the constrictor medius, which partly slips in beneath the hyo-glossus. This latter muscle is some- times divided into two portions, by a cellular line going up about a quarter of an inch back from the front of the os hyoides. Through this line, when it exists, tlie lingual artery comes out to get on the genio-hyo-glossus. ^ The genio-hyo-glossus is a broad flat muscle united in the