61 a description of this fascia, and hereafter to continue unne- cessarily tlie detail, I beg it to be remembered, that the subject is of much importance in the consideration of swelled glands, and other tumours, as well as in deliberations in which the vessels and nerves are concerned. A gland or tumour may be at first superficial, quite moveable, and connected only by cellular substance to the neighbouring parts, or it may be deep, but not strongly adherent to any of the fascial prolongations. Very soon, however, it becomes in either case attached to these, and presently is fixed; nay more, if malignant in its nature, it implicates those very prolongations in the specific disease. But farther, from the intimate connexion between these duplicatures and expansions, and the vessels and nerves, we have those, soon, bound to the tumour, or inti- mately attached to it. By our knowledge of those fasciae, we may decide more readily, whether an incision should set free a firm tumour, or whether the attachment were likely to be of such a kind as rendered it impossible to remove the tumour, without cutting parts essential to life, or too important to be touched. Tenths Returning to the consideration of the platysmal fascia, it is evident, as this goes off every where from the jaw to the neck, that from the relation of the angle of the jaw to the neck, a puckering or fold of this fascia, as it passes oft’fi'om the angle, must in certain positions be produced. By turning the head backward, and to the opposite side, a duplicature is formed, which feels hard like a cord, and extends from the angle to.the margin of the mastoid muscle, about an inch below the jaw. This portion is connected with the deeper septum of the styloid expansion, noticed at the eighth observation. But in so far as the platysmal fascia is concerned, this cord or line is merely produced by position. It has, therefore, very improperly been called the ligament of the angle of the jaw. Eleventh, When the mere skin is removed, we would say that the platysma-myoides, with its substratum of platysmal fascia, covers the parotid gland, jaw, and neck, and does nothing more. But when we examine the anterior margin of the