81 result. It is easy to see, from the general account given already, what parts are to be avoided, and how we are to pre- serve both the vein and the nerve in safety. An incision of about two and a half, or three inches long, should be made through the skin, in the direction of the anterior margin of the mastoid muscle, or just by the side of the larynx, begin- ning at the very top of the thyroid cartilage. This line has very little obliquity, being almost perpendicular. The inci- sion will be best made by having the neck stretched a little back, but after this, the neck ought not to be stretched. The only precaution necessary, in this stage, is to avoid the branch of the external jugular vein, which runs down under the pla- tysma myoides, sometimes along the margin of the mastoid muscle, but sometimes a little farther back. By merely divid- ing the skin first, and then sponging the wound, or pressing a little below it, the vein is seen, if it be in the way, and can be drawn backward. If not seen readily, the platysma should be divided slowly; and if still it do not appear, its course is, in such a case, farther back, and out of the tract of the inci- sion. No vein should be, for very evident reasons, unneces- sarily cut. Whenever the fascia of the neck and platysma are fairly divided, we have nothing but cellular substance to encounter, till we come to the sheath, if we except the omo- hyoideus, which is not very constant in its point of decussat- ing the artery. Having cut through the skin and fascia, the wound is to be sponged, and were the finger thrust directly down by the side of the thyroid cartilage, it must touch the artery. But this would be a coarse proceeding, and slight dissection, without any violence, exposes the vessel. The cellular substance connecting the sterno-mastoid and sterno- thyroid muscles, is to be as lightly divided. Then, by pressing the mastoid muscle a little outward, the finger readily descends by the side of the cartilages, or, slight working with the handle of the scalpel, aided at the most by one or two touches with the blade, exposes the sheath. In all this, there is nothing difficult, and yet it is possible to be awkward. It is possible to neglect the course of the mastoid muscle, and cut either it or the sterno-thyroid muscle, particularly the former,’ and