330 These, run in the course of the vente comites of the radial and ulnar arteries, and then accompany the brachial vein. 1 he glands, in the arm, are small in health, but when enlarged by disease, they form a chain on both sides of the vessels. One, is usually found on the face of the biceps, a little above the joint, and one, a little above the inner condyle. How the nerves may be either found, or avoided, in opera- tion, can be easily determined, by the description of their situation. It is chiefly the cutaneous, that we should think of intentionally dividing, on account of the consequence of laceration, puncture, &c.; but still I shall notice how the others may be exposed. The Median nerve, in the arm, till near the elbow joint, is found close by the margin of the biceps muscle. The Internal cutaneous, is exposed by mak- ing a short incision, a little more inward than the margin of the biceps, so as to come on the tract of the brachial vein, rather than of the artery. On its face, the nerve is found running down, not far from the inside of the median nerve. But it^^is only high, that we expose the trunk, for it soon splits into branches. For the division of these, therefore, it is best to make a transverse incision, in the course of the branches, which seem to be affected. The External cutaneous nerve, is exposed near the elbow, by making an incision par- allel to tbe outer margin of the biceps, beginning two inches above the head of the radius, and extending, for at least an inch down. This exposes the cephalic vein, and, on draw- ing it cautiously outward, the nerve is seen issuing from betow the biceps, at about an inch and a half above the r^ius, restincr pretty firmly on the brachieus. It would be difficult to expose it at the top of the arm. It usually begins to enter the coraco-brachialis, near the neck of the bone, and could only be exhibited there, by making an incision into the axilla, and pressing the artery, vein, and other nerves inward, at that point. It lies partly before, and partly to the outside of these. The Spiral, near the elbow, is exposed, by making an incision from the outer margin of the arm, nearer its back, than actually its side, about two inches ^^ove the external condyle, obliquely down to its face or front.