273 tl)e same. The shape of the clavicle and rib, must have some effect, but it, still more, depends on the breadth of the scalenus, the difference of even an eighth of an inch, making an alteration. If the artery issue, at the usual distance, of an inch and five-eighths from the articulation, it is generally half an inch, or five-eighths deep, or back, from the inner surface of the clavicle. But, if it turn over the rib, farther out, the muscle being broad, it may be three quarters, or sometimes even seven-eighths. It is of more consequence to attend to the depth, thus taken, from the inside, than from the skin on the outside of the clavicle, for, in an operation, the bone is a better guide than the skin. Its depth from that, unless in unusually fat subjects, ranges from an inch and a quarter, to an inch and a half. The artery lies close on the rib, between it and the scale- nus. The first dorsal nerve, is just above the artery there, or may be behind its upper margin. It is either, almost immedi- ately, connected with the last cervical, so as to form a two-headed nerve, which is continued along the upper margin of the artery, or, it is continued individually. The whole plexus lies higher, and more outward, than the artery, but sometimes the anterior thoracic, or a small branch from it, crosses the face of the vessel, near the part which is to be tied in an operation. The subclavian vein, passes on the face of the rib, farther forward, separated from the artery, by the scalenus anticus, and at the point when the artery issues, it is scarcely three- eighths of an inch lower. There are veins, still more, connected with the operation, of tying the subclavian artery. The internal jugular, passes down, to a greater or less extent, on the surface of the sca- lenus anticus. Its outer margin, near the clavicle, always is fully an inch out from the articulation, fi'equently a quarter, sometimes even three quarters of an inch, more, so that it may, though rarely, lie on the point where the artei’y issues. Next, the external jugular vein descends, from the posterior margin of the mastoid muscle, to the clavicle, whicli it gen- erally reaches, at fully two inches, though sometimes at one and three quarters, out from the sternal end. It sweeps II. rp