233 backward and outward, to about three quarters, back from the edo-e. It consists of two lobes which are, together, about three quarters long, and one half broad, at the broadest part. Its ducts, six or seven in number, open on the inside of the upper eyelid, at the outer canthus, near the reflection of the conjunctiva. When the gland enlarges, it must affect the position of the eye more or less, and sometimes even make it protrude. It can only be removed, by detaching the up- per eyelid, sufficiently, from the margin of the orbit, and then hooking the gland, and cautiously dissecting it out. The eye resumes its place, and, although the cornea may have become opaque, or ulcerated, by exposure, yet it may recover. The Eyelid, consists of a firm facial expansion, going off from the margin of the orbit, and continued to the tarsus, or fibro-cartilaginous border at the cilii. This is impi-operly called the broad ligament, and is more cellular toward the inner canthus. Then, on the outside of this, is spread the orbicularis palpebrarum, and above that, is cellular substance, without fat, and, last of all, skin. On the inside, it is lined by the conjunctiva, which is reflected from the eye and mar- gin of the orbit, at different distances, at different parts. The greatest distance is above, where it may go three-eighths of an inch back, from the margin of the bone. It forms a fold at the outside of the caruncula, called the semilunar valve, or membrana nictitans. The caruncula, itself, is a small du- plicature of this, containing follicles. On the inside, of the broad ligament, of the upper eyelid, is the levator palpe- bras. On looking at the inside of the eyelids, we see numerous chains of buff-coloured spots about a quarter of an inch long, and running to the very edge of the tarsus. They run paral- lel to, and very near, each other. They are the Meibomian follicles. Outwardly, they extend to the canthus, but in- wardly, they do not pass the puncta. They go deep, and form a considerable part of the substance of the tarsus, which. Itself, is not so thick and firm, as its fibro-cartilaginous texture would lead one to expect. It is often more like a duplica- tion of skin. The tarsi terminate near the inner canthus.