18() carolid artery, be fain to leave part of the tumour remaining, preferring the certainty of its renewal, or a lingering death, to his patient dying, immediately, of the operation. If a tumour in the hyo-thyroid district be small, it is easily removed by dividing the platysma; and, if necessary, a small portion of the omo and sterno-hyoideus, and perhaps of the hyo-thyi’oideus, at the same time that we press back the mas- toid. The laryngeal nerve runs close by the margin of the thyroid horn, and of that part of the constrictor which covers it. It is under the membi’ane, and is easily avoided. The artery is not always very regular in its relation to the nerve, for it is sometimes higher, sometimes lower. The nerve, which is highest at first, generally descends as it proceeds, so that it at last crosses the artery on its inside, and then gets lower than it. The artery runs on the surface of the membrane till it reach near the front, where it penetrates it. There are generally two veinous branches, one runs lower than the nerve, but partly covers it, another is first lower than the artery, and then gets on its face, so that both artery and nerve are more or less hid by veins. If the artery be cut, we must be sure to secure it before dressing the wound. In considering Wounds of the neck we must remember that the danger arises from various causes. The first and most immediate is haemorrhage, which may prove almost instantly fatal. Next, we have to attend to the effect pro- duced by the division of nerves, to suffocation, to exhaustion, with or without fever, or with more or less irritation, and to the consequences, acute or chronic, of bronchitis or larjTigi- tis. The danger is farther increased by the state of mind, which often exists, in cases of wounds voluntarily inflicted. We may also, with advantage, direct our attention to wounds where there has been a free division of the parts, or puncture, or laceration, or gunshot. Some wounds are fatal, from neglect, which might have been easily cured, had they been early discovered. Several small wounds, from the necessary loss of blood, may prove fatal, although no one individually were of importance; and