3C)7 still more covered, and is seen by the margin of the extensores radiales. It does not approach the artery, till about the meet- ino- of the supinator and flexor radialis, and, there, it is a quarter of an inch more outward. Towards the origin of the artery, or very near the joint, we cut along the outer margin of the pronator and flexor radialis, in the line already described, as that of the artery, avoiding the median basilic or median cephalic veins, according as these run more or less obliquely. The artery runs in that cellular substance which hides, or covers, the supinator brevis. The venae comites, are not lateral as farther down, but, obliquely, before and behind. The Ulnar artery, cannot, without great violence to the muscles, be exposed and tied, higher in the fore-arm, than to within about four inches below the peak of the inner condyle. From the wrist, up to that point, it is easily exposed, by cutting along the radial margin of the flexor ulnaris, the line of which is from the I’ront, near the ulnar side, of the pisiform bone, or of the tendon of the muscle, up to the peak of the condyle. Till nearly an inch and three quarters above the os pisiforme, it is found by the radial margin of the tendon, and the ulnar margin of the flexor sublimis, lying on the profundus, between its two veins, and with the ulnar nerve, close by its ulnar side, both covered by a deep layer of fascia. It is, therefore, readily tied here, by separating the ulnaris, from the tendons of the sublimis, going to the little and ring finger. If the tendon of the ulnaris, which is more strictly lateral, than on the front of the ulna, have not been accurately exposed, these may be mistaken for it. The external incision can only divide a small venous branch, going to the median vein. In the middle third, branches, going to the median vein, are still in our way, and so may be a ramus of the internal cutaneous nerve. The line of junction of the flexor ulnai’is and sublimis, is not exactly on the front of the ulna, but rather obliquely toward the side. Separating them from each other, and turning the ulnaris inward, we find the sublimis to be bound by firm fascia, which must be divided,