106 corresponding vein, which is lower, or more superficial. If we wish to find the facial artery on the gland, it will be exposed by cutting obliquely, downward and backward, from the antei'ior margin of the masseter muscle. The vein is seen on dividing the platysma, and it nearly covers the artery in the short space between the margin of the jaw-blade and the gland. To expose the artery before it reach the gland, we must take the digastric and angle of the jaw as our guides. If the digastric run low, we draw it and the stylo-hyoideus down, and find the artery at its upper margin. If the muscle be high, we may see the origin by pressing it up. The lin- gual nerve often crosses the origin; but we can seldom have occasion to tie the vessel so high. We may also expose it by turning the gland forward, and a little upward, when we see the commencement of the tendon of the digastric, about three quarters of an inch before the angle of the jaw. Here the posterior margin of the gland, if not enlarged, rests on the artery. A large glandular branch, already noticed, often comes off here. There are other two arteries arising at the upper part of the neck, but distributed on the head. It will, however, be better to dispose of these now, than postpone the description. The occipital artery comes off from the outer and back part of the carotid, sometimes not higher than the horn of the os hyoides, or opposite the lingual, sometimes just on a line with the angle of the jaw, but from three-eighths to half an inch inward from it. It ascends upward and obliquely backward, behind the bellies of the digastric and stylo- hyoideus, that is, on their inside; so that, unless it rise low, it is scarcely seen until the digastric be raised a little. The under margin of the posterior belly of the muscle cor- responds nearly to the course of the artery, which is first on the face, and then a little to the outside of the internal caro- tid ; or it mounts up between the two carotids, behind, and a little more outward than, the external, and then winds obliquely backward. The ninth nerve, comes down, parallel to the carotid, somewhat behind the occipital artery, and hooks round it and the carotid. The artery, which is never less