.334 separated by tlie blow, and afterwards kept so by supination, 1 he fore-arm being bent to a right angle with the humerus, and rather prone, the broken portion is to be pressed into its situation, if displaced, and compresses laid, so as to keep it close by the shaft. Bent splints, or strong pasteboard, wet, and then moulded to the shape, and a roller are next to be applied, and the same position of the arm preserved. As there is often, at first, considerable swelling and pain, firm pressure, cannot, perhaps, be immediately endured; but as / these subside, it should be employed, and regular exami- nation made into the position of the bone. Passive motion is to be employed, as soon as reunion has taken place. Fracture of the outer condyle, must interest the radial articulation, but the broken part can neither rise nor descend, as it remains bound to the radius by the articulating apparatus, and that bone again is kept in its place, by its connexion with the ulna. If the split interest the whole condyle, it runs up in a line, by the inside of the head of the radius, and outside of the coronoid process. The part broken off, is that which gives origin to the supin- ator, and that muscle, especially in pronation and exten- sion, should draw the upper end of the piece a little outward, and rather forward. The extensores carpi will also tend to turn the part a little out. The supinator brevis, rising from the back of the condyle, if stretched, may drag the condyle forward, and turn its back a little round. The inter- muscular ligament is useful, and so is the connexion with the ti'iceps. The arm should be semibent and supine, and the same process followed as in the former case. If there be also a transverse, as well as a longitudinal or oblique fracture, there is more deformity, and, generally, besides the effect of the former, already described, we have more separation of the condyle. The arm is often easiest in the prone position, and, therefore, in such cases, is found in that state. The treatment is similar to that just advised, only, we must pay attention to keep both condyles in their situation; and, as a difference may occur, from the greater degree to which one side has suffered, we must, in the particular case, observe whether