494 than avoiding the superior articular arteries. There can hardly be any occasion on which we would tie the artery in the intercondyloid space, where it rests deep in the ligamentum posticum. I have already noticed the knee, in so far as the fibrous covering, and the ligament of the patella, are concerned. The joint is strengthened by a broad sheet of fibres, the popliteal, or posterior ligament, going upward and outward, from the back of the tibia to the external condyle. The tendinous origin of the popliteus muscle, from the outer con- dyle, also fortifies this part. The internal lateral ligament is flat and broad, and extends from the tuberosity, on the side of the internal condyle, to the inner side of the tibia. It is lined by the synovial membrane, and covered by the tendons of the gracilis, sartorius, and semitendinosus. The external lateral ligament is more rounded. It descends from the tuberosity, on the outer condyle, to the head of the fibula. It is strengthened by a shorter ligament, behind it. It is covered by the tendon of the biceps, and the fibrous expansion from the vastus externus. Within the capsule, we have two Crucial ligaments. The anterior extends from the inner side of the external condyle to the tibia, at the anterior horn of the internal semilunar cartilage. The posterior goes from the inner condyle to the tibia, behind, at the posterior horn of the external semilunar cartilage. These ligaments are very strong, being about half an inch broad, and a quarter thick ; and they are connected in their course by intermediate fibres, and expansion of the synovial mem- brane. These ligaments are supposed to prevent rotation of the bones; but, if we cut every thing else, we find that we may roll the tibia. We can roll it inward, so as to make the foot point directly in, or even a little backward; and we can roll it outward, so as to make the toes point backward, or even go round a little toward the opposite side, especially if the ligaments be lax. Rolling outward, untwists the ligaments, and makes them parallel. They are chiefly of use in keep- ing the bones together, and resisting attempts to bend the knee backward, or push the tibia backward or forward. Ro-