5^29 which at the cleft of the toes divides into two; one, runs iiiw'ard, covered by the tendon of the flexor pollicis, and goes along the inner margin of the great toe; another, subdivides to supply its outer margin, and the inner one of the adjoining toe. The posterior tibial nerve divides generally sooner than the artery, or just behind the ankle, into the two plantar branches. The inner, or largest, goes in the angle between the two plantar arteries, at their origin, obliquely outward, under the abductor, then, straight forward, between it and the flexor digitorum brevis, on the accessorius and tendon of the flexor longus. It, besides givinjj ramuli to these muscles, divides soon into four branches, to the great toe, the two adjoining, and the inner margin of the fourth. At the commencement of the toes, these subdivide into the marginal nerves. The external plantar nerve passes near the os calcis, more across the origin of the abductor pollicis, and flexor digitorum brevis, over the acces- sorius, and along the outer margin of that muscle. It runs by the inner margin of the artery. It gives twigs to these muscles, and then subdivides, for the little, and outer margin of the adjoining, toe. It communicates with the inner plantar. There are branches of nerves both above and below the ten- dons of the flexor longus. The nerves on the dorsum have been already described. In giving directions for exposing the arteries in the upper and, even, the middle part of the leg, I do so rather for the purpose of assisting their discovery in patent wounds, than from a belief that in punctures the operation shall be often resorted to. To expose, and tie, the posterior tibial artery, at the top of the leg, begin the incision opposite the top of the condyles, and carry it down, in the median line, for three inches and a half. This exposes the fascia, involving the saphena minor, with the communicating tibirl^nerve, by its outside. An arte- rial branch often descends in the same situation. These are to be as little disturbed as possible. The fascia being divid- ed, they, with the inner head of the gastrocnemius, are to be 2 M