legist, the knowledge of this distribution must be important. It explains, amongst other consequences, the ready produc- tion of a certain degree of pressure on the spinal cord, and the transition of that pressure, from place to place, according to the state of the circulation, whereby pain, spasmodic mo- tion, or paralysis, &c. may take place alternately, or succes- sively, in different parts of the body. Or, in some cases, we have acute pain in one spot of the back, or a general and severe tetanic paroxysm, with stupor, or overpowering feeling of weight in the head, relieved by nothing but the lancet, and generally relieved almost immediately by that, if it have not been delayed till effusion, or some permanent change have taken place. This internal branch, of the vertebral, also receives, on its exit from the canal, a vein, which accompanies the cervicalis profunda artery, or sometimes this deep cervical vein enters directly the subclavian vein. The external branch, beginning by, or having received, the vein from the condyloid foramen, comes down from the occiput, in front of the transverse processes of the vertebrae, receiving branches from the neighbouring muscles, and communicating at the intervertebral spaces with the internal branch. The common trunk passes down beneath the thyroid artery, and to its inside, deep, just at the inner margin of the sca- lenus anticus, along with the vertebral artery, and partly cov- ering it, especially at its outside, sometimes quite on it, and enters the back of the subclavian, just beyond the entrance of the internal jugular. There is a difference in the two sides, in this respect, that the right passes behind the subclavian artery, the left before it, the right subclavian being more forward than the left, owing to the position of the innominata. On both sides, the vein is nearly in front of the artery, but on the right side it often inclines in its descent a little to the outside, and on the left to the inside of the artery. The inferior thyroid veins arise on, and from, the gland by various branches, and from the fat over the trachea. The two veins anastomose so freely between the sterno-thyroideus and trachea, in the soft cellular substance interposed, that