265 it. It runs higher than the parotid duct, whilst a mesh work usually covers the duct. The radiation of these nerves, has given them the appellation of pes anserinus. The cervico-facial, which, from the connexion of the por- tio dura, with the fifth, often seems, like a branch of the latter, runs obliquely downward, in the substance of the gland, and covered by the ramus of the jaw. At the angle, it goes obliquely forward, under the platysma, and divides into several branches. The facial division, or the inferior facial nerve, gives the supra-maxillary nerve, to the jaw and chin, and others, to the lower part of the cheek and lip. The cervical division sends, from behind the angle of the jaw, the sub-maxillary, which goes forward, below the jaw, to the chin. The descending, or cervical branch, ramifies on the upper part of the neck, and is connected with twigs from the cervical nerves. It is the cutaneous superior of some writers. Sometimes, the portio dura in place of divid- ing thus, in the gland, into two larger portions, a superior and inferior, splits, at once, into the various subdivisions. The ultimate distribution of the ramuli is pretty regular, but their exact course is somewhat variable. When this nerve is injured, in its function, by any cause, the muscles of the face, are either liable to spasmodic twitches, or become paralyzed. An example of the first, is seen in quiv- ering of the eyelid, and in chorea; of the second, in those cases, where the muscles of the face, on one side, being inert, the mouth is drawn to the opposite side, and, the orbicularis be- coming powerless, the eyelid cannot be closed. It is well known, that the first is often dependant on the state of the bowels, though, also, producible by disease of the brains The second, may be caused by an affection of the trunk, or par- ticular division of the nerve, in consequence of local disease, or tumour. It may also be produced by the state of the ear, in suppuration, or of the jaw, in dentition, particularly in getting a wisdom tooth. This, however, more frequently affects branches of the fifth pair, the buccinator, for instance. But if no evident local cause, exterior to the brain, can be detected, such paralysis, whether partial, or universal, of the