84 blood. We are not afraid of the brain suffering from want of blood, neither does our apprehension arise, in ordinary cases, from the chance of secondary haemorrhage. The opera- tion may be well performed, and the wound may adhere, and yet there is great hazard; for, as in other cases where large arteries are tied near the heart,'an acute attack of fever may come on, with pain or oppression about the chest, obscure or distinct, and in spite of bleeding, purging, blisters, and opiates, the patient dies. Pus is found in the mediastinum, or on the pleurae, and generally the inner surface of the artery towards the heart is inflamed, though sometimes it is quite sound. The ligature of any large or important artery, especially near the heart, is not free from danger to the constitution; but in tying the carotid, there is the additional risk to be appre- hended from the effect on those minute twigs w'hich are con- nected with the vessel, and the inclusion of which, in the liga- ture, may affect the parts to which the nerve is distributed. This has led me to the advice of cleaning the vessel; but even then the operation is not safe in proportion to its sim- plicity, and ought never to be performed unless life be at stake. I need not add, that great care is to be taken in passing the needle behind the vessel, not to rub on the symypathetic, and also that the eighth nerve is to be drawn aside with gentleness. There are still two remarks I have to make on the opera- tion. The first is, that we are told that the jugular vein alter- nately swells and collapses during respiration, so, as in the first state, to cover or hide the artery, and require great care lest it come on the knife and be cut. But, if the incision go directly down on the course of the artery, this is so far from being the case, that the vein is scarcely to be seen. It lies quite to the outside of the arteiy, and there it remains, without those sudden expansions we are taught to expect. The artery may be exposed and tied in this part of the neck, and the vein scarcely seen by the operator. In a few instances, I grant, the vein does naturally hang over the artery (when it is distended in the dead subject), but not even then to the degree represented; and if the sheath of the carotid be opened, and that of the vein left untouched, the septum which is