286 From this view of the relation of the artery, below the cla- vicle, it is evident, that, independent of its depth, there must be a difficulty in safely exposing, and tying it, not altogether from the covering of the great vein and nerves, for these may be separated, but also from the arterial branches given off, and veinous branches entering in, between the subclavius and pec- toralis minor, to say nothing of the branches of thoracic nerves. It was at one time proposed to tie the artery here, in cases of axillary aneurism, but the anatomical objections are so strong and evident, that it is needless to describe an operation, which has not one countervailing advantage, over that above the clavicle. Farther, in true aneurism, we should thus apply the ligature, nearer the diseased portion, and in traumatic, or false aneurism, where the blood is confined in a sac form- ed by the axillary fascia, we are sure to open into that, dur- ing an operation. We never can contemplate the ligature of the artery here, unless in an extensive wound of the skin and muscles, complicated with so small an opening of the artery, as not to have proved rapidly fatal; a case rather to be ima- gined, than met with. The tract of the vessels and large nerves, from the clavicle to the joint, when the arm is at a right angle to the body, is that of a line running obliquely outward and downward, and the length of the portion of the artery, may be fully three inches and a half. When the arm is by the side, they are more arched. After passing over the rib, they, particidarly the vein, rest, first, on the upper intercostal muscle, then, on the serratus, in one direction, and on the subscapularisand ten- don of the latissimus, in another. They are much more firmly connected to these, than to the serratus. There are two views which may, with advantage, be taken of the relation of the parts; the one, from the front, the other, look- ing up the axilla. First, on removing the two pectoral muscles, but leaving the investing fascia, we see the vessels and nerves shining through this. When this is turned off, we see these more distinctly, though still covered with a sheath and cellular substance. When better cleaned, we display the parts in the following order :—Lowest, and also farthest forward, in the oh-