50 to tlie cricoid cartilage, in contact with the outer margin of the sterno-hyoideus, lying on the sterno-thyroideus, a little of w’hich projects from under its outer margin. Then, it inclines more outward over the sterno-thyroideus, exposing a part of that muscle, which it has left, in the space between itself and the sterno-hyoideus. It reverses, therefore, its relation to the outer margin of the sterno-thyroideus in the upper and under part of the neck. It lies on the side of the thyroid cartilage, is firmly bound to it, and is so covered with fascia, that its course cannot be seen till that, and the platysma be removed, and the sterno-mastoid turned up, for it is, in a certain degree, overhung by that muscle. The sterno-hyoideus, when removed, exhibits the white thyi’oid cartilage in front. The lateral part of the cartilage is covered by the hyo-thyroideus, but this leaves a little of the cartilage bare in front, and that is covered by the sterno-hyoideus, aided by the omo-hyoideus. The sterno-thyroideus is inserted into the cartilage at the under margin of the hyothyroideus, so that these cover its sides. These three muscles cover the thyroid gland. In front it is quite covered by the sterno-hyoideus, as well as beneath that, by the sterno-thyroideus. These also cover the lateral part of the gland, except at the top, where the defect is supplied by the omo-hyoideus. When the platysma is removed, no part of the gland ought to be seen, unless these muscles have, by swelling of the gland, or other causes, been pushed separate from one another Wlien the thyroid gland enlarges in scrofulous habits, or in other cases, where it is not much indurated, it raises and separates the muscles, but does not materially impede the motion of the cartilages. It projects at the upper part between the omo and sterno-hyoidei, and at the lower half between the omo and sterno-thyroidei muscles. The extent of separation depends on the size of the tumour, and also on whether any part push out in front between the muscles of opposite sides. If pressure be not made on the recurrent nerve, the breathing is seldom affected. It is otherwise in carcinoma, and hard tumours adhering firmly to the parts below. Possibly, the rigidity of the muscles binding down such a tumour may contribute to