431 the median line. Although I have noticed the parts which are divided, it is not to be expected that these are now exhi- bited distinctly. There is just a simple line of wound resulting, deep, between the tuberosity and anus, shallow, at the top of the perinaeum. It is, altogether, from three inches to three inches and a half long, according to the fatness and size of the adult. Distinct muscles are not seen, for they are not cleaned. It is more like a wound in cellular sub- stance. The transversalis artery, and perhaps the super- ficialis perinaeal, and twigs of the external haemorrhoidal, are the only vessels cut. If the finger now be introduced into the wound and pressed gently upward behind, or deeper than the bulb, we feel the staff through the levator muscle. The staff is to be kept steady, and then, the back of the knife being downward, we may either cut upward, so as to divide that portion of the muscle which is interposed between the finger and urethra, or, we insert the knife, below the passage of the urethra through the fascia, close behind the bulb, with the blade downward, into the urethra, and slit it in the direction toward the gland. In either case, a small narrow-bladed scalpel is best. If we cut upward, with a broad scalpel, we art apt to wound the artery of the bulb. We are told to divide the muscle freely; now, if misled by that term, we cut more than this portion, and a little of that on the urethral end of the prostate gland, we gain nothing, but may do much harm. We may, if we divide it backward and upward, possibly escape the rectum; but we expose the prostate gland, and perhaps cut the vesiculae semenales. Even if we do not go so high, but more downward—that is, backward—we endanger the rectum. A free exposure, or regular dissection of the gland, is useless, and hurtful. To divide the muscle laterally is safer ; but this is done better afterwards. We cannot cut more forward without dividing the triangular fascia and artery of the bulb. It is then only a small wound which is actually made, whatever be the term employed, or the intention of the operator—namely, that which bounds the tract of the membranous part of the urethra, and the extremity of the gland. In doing this, we