87 two, in the uninjected state, which most resembles that met with in operations, is marked by a slight sulcus up to the digastric muscle, or the crossing of the lingual nerve. There, the inter- nal winds a little more backward, and the external goes more directly upward, or even a little forward. In some cases, however, the external is really quite to the outside of the internal at the bifurcation. But it does not quite hide the internal, viewed from the side. Its posterior margin, only over- laps, the anterior one of the internal. It, in this case, may be in contact with the internal jugular vein. On exposing the arteries at the angle of the jaw, and pressing up the digastric, the external is first seen, or is farthest forward, and then the internal behind it, and a little to its outside. They run at least three quarters of an inch'parallel to one another, before they reach the lingual nerve. The breadth of the two carotids, at the angle of the jaw, is five, and of them, and the full jugular vein, nine-eighths of an inch. The bifurcation may generally be three or four-tenths of an inch back from the edge of the thyroid cartilage, and if the mastoid muscle ,be thick, it is about seven-tenths deep from, or median of the face of that muscle; but nearer the angle of the jaw, the external carotid may be only four-tenths deep from it. The two carotids ought rather to be named anterior and posterior, than external and internal, for they ai’e situated obliquely in that relation to each other. The internal is also at first often a little more external, that is, more lateral than the external. The two vessels ascend nearly parallel, and bear a uniform relation to the bone. The external, passes on the outside of the styloid process, the internal, on its inside. In general, the point of the process indicates the spot where the external carotid passes; and by feeling in an wound or incision for the point, we are sure to feel the artery, and by pressing down the styloid muscles, we may, if necessary, tie the artery thus high. Now, there are points both in the bones and muscles, which mark these vessels and their relations. We have seen that the division takes place at the top of the thyroid cartilage, and the two arteries are presently crossed by the digastric and