490 or what is now more the anterior, margin of the sartorius. This must vary in its course, according to the obliquity and breadth of the muscle. Where the incision should be made, may, however, generally, be marked by a line from the side of the inner condyle to the outer margin of the spine of the ilium. An incision, nearly four inches long, is to be made in that direction, ending about three inches above the con- dyle. This exposes the superficial fascia, which is to be divided to the same extent, and the margin of the muscle sought for. It lies here on the vastus, which is covered by the deeper layer of fascia, or aponeurosis. If the finger, or handle of tlie scalpel, be run inward on this, it is likely to turn up the margin of the sartorius, the fibres of which run in a different direction, and, superficially, have a more muscular appearance. The saphena is more pubal than the incision. Having detached the margin, to the extent of three inches, the muscle is to be raised from the vastus, and, on carrying the finger deep to the bone, at the angle formed between that muscle and the adductor magnus, the artery is touched. We have only to dissect as deeply as we can get— that is, to the very connexion, or binding together of the muscles, to reach the artery. It is not seen, for it is covered by strong fascia, which must be divided ; and, even then, the artery is bound in the angle. We wish to tie it about five inches above the condyle. The vein is behind it, and the saphena nerve is in front, connected to the side of the vastus. At this part, the ramus anastomoticus comes off, and, with its vein, lies parallel to the artery, but soon goes more toward the round tendon of the triceps. We avoid it by opening the sheath, quite, on the face of the artery. The spot where the artery perforates, or turns back, must vary according to the length of the thigh, &c.; but, generally, it is about four inches above the top of the condyle. The state of the part below this is not always the same, even in the same subject; for sometimes, on one side, the implantation ends in a lunated tendon, or musculo-tendinous border, connected with the round tendon, and thence, dow n to condyle, there is only a layer of fascia, more or less firm ; whilst, on the other.