140 the occipital seems to mount up, and the accessory to go off' lower. In other cases, there is less connexion, and the occipital appears to hook round the accessory; but still there is a union, and this should be remembered in pathology. This nerve, if necessary, may be divided by cutting across the scalp, a little more outward than for the division of the great occipital. The anterior branch of the second cervical nerve having given off' the little occipital, and sent communicating branches to the other nerves, to form the cervical plexus, divides into two, which come out at the posterior margin of the mastoid muscle; the one a little lower than the other, ox*, not unfrequently, a common trunk gives them both off. The highest is the great or posterior Auricular nerve, so called, to distinguish it from the little Auricular, a branch of the portio dura, that goes up behind the angle of the jaw, and is distributed to the posterior surface of the ear. The auricular nerve appears sometimes immediately at the margin of the mastoid muscle, sometimes it mounts a little under the muscle before it come out. It appears generally rather higher than mid-way between the mastoid process and clavicle, the exact distance below the process varying with die length of the neck, and the breadth and obliquity of the muscle. It is sometimes three inches and a half, sometimes barely two and three quarters. It runs straight up, quite under the skin on the surface of the muscle, consequently obliquely with regard to its fibres, going in the course of a line drawn to the front of the process. It passes by the posterior margin of the lower lobe of the pai'otid gland. It is distributed on the gland, and on the ear and skin, near the process. It may be divided by cutting * across the skin and fascia covering the muscle below the process. The lowest division forms the Cutaneus or Supei’ficialis Colli, which often being the largest, seems to give off the auricular, which indeed is just a branch of the same nerve, although it continue for a short way hid by the margin of the muscle. This, after separating from the auricular, speedily divides into two branches, the cutaneus medius, and inferior. The supe- rior is a branch of the portio dura. The medius appears at the margin of the muscle, about mid-way between the mas-