212 also cut close by the bone, at the chin. Hjemorrhage is checked by the cautery, which is also useful in destroying any diseased surface, which may have been left. This appli- cation does not necessarily cause swelling of the submaxillary gland. The Tonsil is a thin, ovate, congeries of mucous follicles, placed between the pillars of the fauces. The posterior, or palato-pharyngeus, extends a little forward, so that the tonsil is laid, partly, on it, and, partly, on the constrictor pharyngis, with the posterior part of the pterygoideus internus to the outside, about five-eighths of an inch before the peak of the angle of the jaw, and fully as much above the blade. The inferior palatine artery, rises obliquely behind it, and a little to its outside. The external carotid is farther back, and more outward by, at least, half an inch. The internal, is more in the line of the palatine, but a little moi’e outward. It is more in the line of the tonsil, but half an inch farther back. The pharyngea is still farther back, and a little more outward. There is, thus, an important relation to vessels, the internal carotid lying more directly behind it, the external behind it, but more to its outside. There will be interposed also here, a large vein, the internal maxillary, or one formed by it, and the deep temporal. If the finger be pressed outward, behind the tonsil, at the side of the pharynx, we may feel the internal carotid, if injected, and we more or less distinctly feel, also, the external, and the maxillary vein. The gland itself is supplied by the tonsillaris artery coming from behind. The glosso-pharyngeus nerve skirts the ton- sil, and gives branches, which contribute to a plexus supply- ing it. Small as the tonsil naturally is, it often enlarges much and rapidly, in inflammation, or appears to do so, for I believe, that sometimes the swelling, and suppuration, are in the cellu- lar substance around it. When abscess forms, it always ex- tends more or less upward, and very soon forward, so as to push forward the velum and glosso-pharyngeus, or anterior pillar. In some cases, the swelling extends even to the pal- ate. The palato-pharyngeus, is also pushed farther back.