284 axilla. If we, after introducing a sharp instrument into the artery, from above the clavicle, and cutting it in the axilla, inject wax, we fill the axilla, pushing aside the oozy cellu- lar substance, and make, as it were, a mould of the boundaries of the fascia, but no force we can employ, ever makes the wax pass up into the neck, or do more below, than extend a lit- tle way, and raise the hollow of the armpit, so as to make it protuberant. The whole mass of wax is not equal to the size of the fist, though doubtless, in an aneurism, the gradual distension may make the parts yield more. Further, a px’actical deduc- tion, not to be disputed, is, that in no case of false aneurism, dare we attempt to expose the artery below the clavicle, for, then, we surely open the sac: and even in the operation above the clavicle, we must be careful not to go lower than is abso- lutely necessary, a rule to be observed even in true aneui'ism. We have seen that a layer of fascia, extends over the pec- toralis minor and subclavius, and the intervening space. Un- der this fascia, the thoracica superior and humeraria, arising separately, or by a common trunk, are seen, with their corre- sponding veins, whilst the cephalic, in its course to the sub- clavian vein, crosses the artery, and skirts the margin of the subclavius. Under the fascia, a nerve, arising usually from the median, also is seen. It sends its ramifications over the surface of the pectoralis minor. The main artery, then, in its way to the arm, must traverse this space. It goes down from the clavicle, and meets the vein, at about a quarter of an inch out from the line of the scalenus. The vein runs outward, and a little downw^ard, the artery, more downward and less outward, so that they soon meet at an angle. In the space between the two muscles alluded to, the vein, whilst it is obliquely to the inside of the artery, also overlaps it more or less, so as, in some cases, to cover or hide it altogether. Where it does not cover the artery, smaller veins generally do. These are the superior thoracic veins and the cephalic. The nerves lie obliquely to the upper, and outer, side of the artery, sometimes overlapping its margin, and partly behind, so that it runs, here, in a kind of nervous channel. This is formed with some little variation, in different cases, but, usually,