77 It is also covered, in certain parts, by these muscles. This is well seen by raising entirely the mastoid muscle. We then find that the sterno-thyroideus, near the clavicle, becomes a little broader, and winds outward over the lower part of the carotid artery, becoming, by fascia, firmly attached to the clavicle, as if it arose from it. It is also attached to the inner surface of the sternum foi' more than an inch down, and likewise to the rib. In some cases, the sterno-hyoidei divaricate, so as to be connected, in front, by a firm angular portion of fascia, whilst the muscle is attached rather to the inside of the cla- vicle, about half an inch below its upper margin, than to the sternum, and it extends outward above half an inch from the articulation. The height, above the clavicle, to which the sterno-thyroid covers the carotid, varies, but it is fidly half an inch, in some cases an inch and a half, and as the under or anterior margin of the omo-hyoideus sometimes, where it crosses the carotid, comes considerably within an inch of the clavicle, that vessel may be covered by the united sheet of these muscles for nearly half-way up the neck. Tliis it is important to remember, and it is easily understood, for the omo-hyoideus often runs down at a very small angle, and, therefore, although its upper or outer margin, may begin to pass over the artery midway between the clavicle and angle of the jaw, yet it may not pass off from it till much lower, and the sheet of the muscle being often five-eighths of an inch broad, it may remain long on the face of the vessel. There is much uncertainty, however, in the extent of this covering, for, in some subjects, particularly when the muscles are slender, the sterno-thyroid does not sweep over the lower end of the carotid, and the omo-hyoideus, in place of descending so perpendicularly, and having a tendon, as I noticed when describing the muscle, making it digastric, may cross the artery quickly with its under margin nearly opposite the inferior end of the thyroid carti- lage. In other cases the upper margin crosses these. There is indeed gi*eat latitude. For instance, whilst writing this page, my son has examined the muscles in two subjects. In the 'one, a short-necked female, the upper margin crossed the artery two inches and a tenth, and the under, one inch and