373 metacarpal bone, and origin of the muscles, of the thumb. The other end is inserted into the cuneiform bone, expands over it, and is identified with the origin of the muscles of the little finger. It also sends a layer, or detachment, upward, to the pisiform bone, which has considerable effect in fixing it, for when this is cut, the bone can be pushed more ulnar, and its capsule is stretched. The ulnar nerve passes in a channel between the main ligament, and this detachment, that is, it is covered by the latter. The upper margin of the ligament is braced, by being connected with the deep aponeu- rosis of the forearm, whilst the under one, is lost in the palmar aponeurosis. On cutting through the ligament, we see that the flexor tendons, median nerve, and ulnar artery, have been passing under it; the two former, at least, in synovial sheaths or bursae. These may be traced in different ways. We may look on them as formed by septa, descending from the inner surface of the ligament, involving and surrounding the ten- dons individually, and connected, beneath, with the face of the capsule of the wrist. But, besides this, we may also trace the fine synovial membrane as covering the capsule, and lining the ligament, and at the margin of the ligament, reflected up around the tendons in the forearm. From this, it is easy to understand the effect of strain, or other causes of inflammation. We have the sheaths or bursae distended with synovia. There can be no swelling in the situation of the ligament, unless, perhaps, slight inflammation of the cellular substance. But, above the superior margin of the ligament, there is often very considerable swelling, and there may also be painful tension at the upper part of the palm of the hand. Fhe twisting of the hand, which sometimes takes place, depends not so much on displacement, effected by the mechanical cause of the sprain, as on the stretching or lacera- tion of the ligament, and channels for the tendons, and the extension of the tendons themselves, whei’eby antagonist muscles are enabled to act more exclusively. The sides of the wrist are each marked, or bounded, by a strong tendon. On the radial side, by that of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, which not only is covered by the apo-