13^ 1 he jugular and subclavian veins on the right side, unite to form the right vena innominata, and their junction lies over the subclavian artery, between it and the clavicle. The inner margin of the jugular is about an eighth of an inch out from the articulation, the outer one about an inch; but where it enters the subclavian, it inclines a little inward, so as to be rather nearer the articulation. In some cases, the inner margin is half an inch or five-eighths out from the articulation, and the outer one in proportion. It meets the subclavian at an angle, and the upper margin of the subclavian, and outer one of the jugular, forming the angle, is generally about a quarter of an inch above the surface of the clavicle. The under margin of the subclavian vein, at this point, is a quarter of an inch below the upper surface of the clavicle, its course being oblique. A line dropped perpendicularly at the articulation, the subject lying on the back, touches the inner margin of the united vein, or right vena innominata, which is very short, and runs down close by the right side of the arteria innominata, but a little farther forward. It soon meets the left vena innominata, to form the cava. The left jugular and subclavian veins meet sometimes a little higher than the right. The under margin of their union is just level with the upper margin of the clavicle, and the outer margin of the jugular, or angle formed by it, with the upper margin of the subclavian, is nearly half an inch above the clavicle, and about an inch out from the articulation. The left vena innominata thus formed, passes not horizontally, but with a slight obliquity across the inside of the sternum. Its inner margin is about three-eighths of an inch inward from the articulation, and a line dropped perpendicularly at the articulation, would strike the face of the vein. The vein adheres by means of its sheath to the inner surface of the sternum, about the median line; its upper margin is nearly level with that of the sternum; but as it slopes downward a little, it meets the right vena innominata five-eighths, or three quarters of an inch below the upper margin of the clavicle. There is, however, some variation in the elevation of the vein in differ- ent cases, for although this be the usual relation, yet the mar-