277 mentioned. The lowest nerve is chiefly above, though also, partly, behind the artery. In a few instances, the artery is crossed here by a small nerve, from the axillary plexus, run- ning downward and inward, but this, if the artery be properly exposed, will be divided, and cannot therefore be included in the ligature. The instrument, whatever it may be, used for passing the ligature, is, with most advantage, to be directed upward and outward. The risk, arising from deficiency of circulation in the arm, after the operation, is small, if there be no disease there, for the anastomosing vessels are large. But, independent of the chance of haemorrhage, from the state of the artery, and failure of obliteration, we have not only to meet the serious constitutional consequences of tying a large artery (vol. i. p. 68), but also the effect on the brain, from the special disturbance, or excitement, of the vertebral and carotid arteries. These two causes, in spite of the mostefficient treatment, may carry off" the patient, long before there be time for death to be produced by secondary haemorrhage, and the danger is the more certain, if the arterial system in general, or the vessels going off from the aorta, be preter- naturally enlarged. In deciding on the propriety of an operation for subclavian aneurism, we must not only look at the condition of the arteries, as a system, and consider the state of the constitution, but we must have good ground to believe, not only that the artery, where it issues, and is to be tied, is sound, but, that there is a sufficient portion of sound artery between the aneurism, and the spot to be tied, to give a fair prospect, that there shall be no retrograde haemorrhage. It has been indeed proposed, to divide part of the scalenus, so as to tie the artery a little nearer the heart. We may, without touching the phrenic nerve, cut about half an inch of the scalenus, which is about a quarter of an inch thick. We then expose the subclavian, resting on the pleui’a cos- talis, or its fibrous covering, but we must tie it where it is going off the cervicalis profunda, and superior intercostal, and about the same place, it gives off the supra-scapular artery, where this does not come from the thyroid. The objections then to this pi'oposal, arc too strong to be got over. As to