8 from the mastoid process, to the clavicle, at fully two inches from its sternal end. riie mastoid muscle has most important relations. One of the external jugular veins traverses it obliquely; many twigs of cutaneous nerves, arising from branches coming out between it and the trapezius, run over it, and at the top a part of the parotid gland rests on it. If we cut it quite away, we display, in front of the trapezius, very important parts. At first it is found to have been resting on the posterior belly of the digastric and on the splenius; a little lower, on the levator sca- pulae, and then partly on the scalenus. But these muscles are not seen distinctly on raising the mastoideus, for they are covered by cellular substance and a deep fascia, imbedded in which is the cervical plexus of nerves. The greatest part, however, of the space is occupied by the jugular vein and the carotid artery, which is seen to the inside of the vein, and partly overlapped by it. The eighth pair of nerves runs between them, and they are crossed obliquely by the omo- hyoideus. A chain of lymphatic glands with their vessels run along the vein by the posterior margin of the muscle, and often some of these enlarge, and prove vex’y troublesome, and even dangerous. Dividing and throwing back the trapezius, we expose the next layer on the back of the neck. This consists of the sple- nius and levator scapulae; but if we go to the very side, and thence forward, we there find the scaleni as a continuation of the sheet. The lateral portion of the layer behind is formed by the levator, which covers or lies on the splenius colli, so as to hide it. The splenius capitis alone is seen. Its anterior margin joins the posterior one of the levator, whilst the muscle itself, extends backward to the very spines of the vertebra? from which it originates, and where it intermixes with the muscle on the other side. It does not, however, continue to arise from all the spines, but stops at the third from the top, where it divaricates, from the one on the other side, so as to show part of the complexus. Often, however, this divarication seems to be higher, owing to pai't of the intervening space