506 About the same distance, still farther out, is the tendon of the extensor digitorum, which splits into four, for the last phalanges of the toes. Further out, we have the tendon of the peroneus tertius, going-over the extensor brevis, to the outside of the metatarsal bone of the little toe at its com- mencement. Behind, close by the inner ankle, we have the tendon of the tibialis posticus, which passes by the side of the astragalus, and under the naviculare, bound by a strong sheath. It is implanted into the under surface of the latter, and of the cuneiforme. Deeper, and farther back, so as to be only partially seen on account of the tibialis, is that of the flexor digitorum. It passes along a groove in the os calcis, gets into the sole, and divides into four tendons which go to the toes. (At this point a small muscle rises from each tendon, and runs on, to the inner side of each toe, except the great toe, and under the extensor tendon. They are the lumbricales.) Still deeper, (looking from the side) and a little farther back, is the tendon of the flexor pollicis, which traverses a sulcus in the astragalus, and is crossed, obliquely, by that of the flexor digitorum, which is more superficial. It goes on between tw-o portions of the flexor brevis, to the base of the second phalanx. It gives a tendon to join that of the flexor digitorum. At the outer ankle, the tendon of the peroneus brevis is most anterior, that is, nearest the bone, covered as it were by that of the longus. It passes deep, close by the bone, to be implanted into the side, and, partly, the under surface of the head of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. That of the longus is behind. It passes down the outer surface of the os calcis into the sole, and along the groove in the cuboid bone, to be implanted into the head of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The principal short muscle, on the dorsum of the foot, is the extensor brevis, which rises from the os calcis, and lies on the outer part of the foot. It sends off four slender tendons which go obliquely inward, under those of the extensor lon- gus and peroneus tertius, to the first phalanx of all the toes, except the little one. There are four slips of muscle, filling the interosseous spaces, covered by the lascia of the foot.