53 process, and inner or anterior surface of the styloid expansion. This continuation of the origin from the ligament, makes it broader than it would otherwise be, and sometimes renders the muscle divisible into two portions. In that case, tlie portion which arises from the process, may send down a prolongation along the posterior margin of the hyo-glossus to the os hyoides, forming a stylo-hyoideus alter; or this may be described as a fjisciculus of the hyo-glossus, losing itself in the stylo-glossus. If we remove the stylo-hyoideus and digastric, and look at the region between the hyo-glossus and pterygoideus internus, we shall, on rendering the former muscle tense, by pressing down the os hyoides, see it apparently sending a prolongation to the styloid process, or receiving one from it. This, when it exists, differs from the proper stylo-hyoideus in passing on the inside of the external carotid artery. It meets the hyo-glossus about half an inch forward from the angle of the jaw. The stylo- glossus is a long muscle, and fully as thick as the stylo-hyoideus. It passes to the root of the tongue, near the anterior pillar of the fauces, and runs along its side, very nearly to tlie tip. It is slightly connected to the pterygoideus internus, as it passes that muscle. As the stylo-hyoideus is connected to the digastric, so is tliis muscle connected to the stylo-hyoideus by a little cellular substance. On clearing away this, or separating a little these muscles, the stylo-pharyngeus is seen between them, but deeper, that is, nearer the median line of the body, and running downwai'd and forward. By pressing forward the styloid expansion, it is seen resting on the deep muscles at the transverse process of the vertebra, at the postero-lateral part of the pharynx. It is presently lost under the middle con- strictor, but sends also some fibres to the thyroid cartilage. We have seen that the digastric! form a sheet from the chin to the os hyoides. On removing this, we find another layer formed by the mylo-hyoidei, which, like the digastric!, meet in front, and are united by a kind of semi-tendinous line. This muscle arises from the chin, back along the transverse ridge on the outside of the jaw, and comes very near the ptery- goideus, if it be not in actual contact with it. Its posterior margin corresponds nearly to the anterior one of the masseter.