30 system, as in enteritis, even if the breathing were not much obstructed, but the difficult respii'ation adds greatly to the danger, and to the rapidity of the progress. Laryngitis is a fi*equent disease at all periods of life, and when acute, it is either speedily cured by the decided and prompt use of means for checking inflammation, or it rapidly proves Fatal. It very often, especially in infancy, arises from the state of the origins of the laryngeal nerves, induced directly or indirectly. In such cases, it often assumes, at first, the appearance of what is called spasmodic croup; but if not checked, it soon ends in inflammation. Even when checked, the child is not to be neglected, for cephalic disease is to be dreaded. Adults may have it produced by similar causes, but more frequently, in them, it is occasioned by exposure to cold. They are, however, more liable to that insidious form which assumes the chronic type. The symptoms vary in intensity and number, according to the extent and acuteness of the disease, but they are too well known to require a minute description here. The peculiar sound of the cough, the hoarseness, or loss of voice, the scanty expectoration, the wheezing, with occasional fits of suffocation, perhaps of chok- ing, or coughing, in attempting to swallow, the emaciation, and comparatively late accession of hectic, mark the com- plaint, and very often the patient refers the seat of the dis- ease, from his sensation, to its actual place in the top of the throat. It is more or less rapidly fatal according to the urgency of the symptoms, and the complications which exist, for often the lungs become affected, and, not unfrequently, I believe, it is symptomatic of disease, previously existing in the chest. The extent of mischief is variable. Sometimes there is mere inflammation and suppuration of the mucous membrane, sometimes disease or death of the cartilages, or they may be partially detached and lodged in an abscess at the side of the larynx, or the epiglottis may be partially destroyed, or there may be but slight disease in the larynx, the more immediate' cause of death being in the chest. Should this disease be seated high, for instance, about the arytenoid carti- lages, some benefit may be derived from touching the parts