526 called, descends by the outer margin of the bone, going first through the substance of the peroneus longus, and then im- mediately between it and the extensor digitorum. It sub- divides either before, or immediately after, coming out from between them, into two superficial branches, as has been already noticed. It comes out about midway down the leg, but the point is somewhat variable. The other, or anterior division, called the anterior tibial nerve, at about an inch and a quarter below the top of the head of the fibula, turns forward between the bone and peroneus longus, and under the extensor digitorum, to join the anterior tibial artery, giving at first a recurrent branch to be distributed about the knee, and afterwards, in its descent, branches to the tibialis anticus and extensors. It passes to the dorsum of the foot under the annular ligament, and besides the superficial branches formerly noticed, it is distributed to the dorsal interossei and extensor brevis. I now proceed to the arteries and deep nerves of the foot. The tibialis postica passes behind the inner ankle, by the side or hollow of the os calcis. It is, at the ankle, covered not only by the general fascia which envelops the leg, and binds the tendo-Achilles to the bones at each side, but also by a still deeper layer. The strong aponeurosis called the internal annular ligament, which binds down the tendons, does not, properly, extend over the vessels, but the fascia covering the deep flexors of the legs, and the vessels there, is continued over them at the ankle, and is lost in the annular ligament. (Being also, here, often strengthened by some thicker fibres, the ligament is supposed to cover the vessels as well as the tendons.) Cutting this, the artery is displayed quite distinct from the sheath of the tendons. The order of parts here as viewed from the side, is this: The tendon of the tibialis pos- ticus is foremost, and close by the tibia. Obliquely behind it, that is, deeper, partially appearing from behind it, is that of the flexor digitorum; both bound down in their sheaths. Then, is the artery with its venae comites, then, farther back, the nerve. All these, are in dense cellular substance. Deeper