306 although within the fibrous capsule, be said, like the crucial ligaments of the knee, to be exterior to the synovial mem- brane. This is very thin and lax, at the reflection in the canal, so that the tendon may move without tearing it. The difference in the extent of tendon within the capsule, when the arm is fully raised, or close by the side, owing to the bulging of the head of the bone, is nearly three quarters of an inch. After coming out of the canal, it is connected to the tendon of the pectoralis major by fascia. Higher than this tendon, its tract is covered by the deltoid. In a large subject, it passes the head of the bone, nearly an inch behind the short head, which it, or its division of muscle, does not join, till about two inches and a half, sometimes more, below the coracoid process. The division of muscle belonging to the long, can, often, be separated from that of the short head, to near the tendon at the elbow joint. The latter is the inner- most and most superficial portion. The Deltoid muscle rises from the acromion, and whole of the spine of the scapula, a length of about five inches, and from the clavicle, for about three inches. From this extensive and angular base, the fibres convei'ge toward its insertion, on the outside of the humerus, between the biceps and triceps, and which begins about four inches below the top of the head of the bone. Its implantation is strong and tendin- ous, nearly two inches long, and about three quarters broad. The deltoid is connected by cellular substance to the bursa, as far as that extends, and then to the bone. The outer surface, is entirely fleshy, the inner, is moi'e or less tendinous from near the head of the bone, and becomes entirely so, higher than the implantation of the under margin of the pectoralis major, on which it partly lies. Its anterior margin is bounded by the pectoralis major, so far as that goes, then, it shelves under the biceps. This margin, is marked by a line drawn from the clavicle, three inches in from the acromion, to the outside of the humerus, at the insertion of the muscle, whilst the poste- rior, is in a line from the end of the spina scapulaj, to the same point, and thus we can readily estimate the action of different parts of the muscle. The back part of the muscle,