451 covered by a layer of cellular substance, or sometimes by a thin lamina of fascia. The face, or pubal side of the sac has one or two openings for the transmission of the lymphatics, which enter by it, and some call this the cribriform fascia; others, give that appellation to a superficial layer over it in the thigh. This sac is sometimes very thin, and almost cellular, so that it is easily torn, and is not observed ; but when the fascia is strong, tliex'e is no mistaking it. Besides this sac, we have a prolongation of the fascia along the vessels, forming a sheath for them at their exit, called the crural sheath. We must not confound the two. The sac contains loose cellular substance, in which are the lymphatics, and sometimes a gland. If we dissect off the skin and glands at the top of the thigh, we find that the sac is not only covered by the superficial fascia, but overhung by a falciform portion of the deep fascia. To understand this, I remark, that, near the groin, the muscles may be divided into two sets, one a little more prominent than the other. The inner, consisting of the pectineus and triceps longus, is more sunk, or on a lower level, than the outer, consisting of the sarto- rius, rectus, &c. Between the two, in an angle, are the intermediate muscles, on which the vessels rest—viz., the iliacus and psoas. Now, although the fascia covering these be continuous, or one united sheet, yet, we may, with advan- tage, trace it from two sources, or describe it as made up of two portions, which become continuous. One, which may be called external, rises from, or is iden- tified with, Poupart’s ligament, and the tendon of the external oblique. Not that I say that the tendon is con- tinued down the thigh, but we cannot mark a distinct boundary. Now this portion of fascia is deficient over the pectineus. It forms an arched border downward and out- ward, like a scythe, the point of which begins, just, under the lunated margin, of the external aperture of the inguinal canal, and its breadth, there, is about a quarter of an inch. It sweeps downward, and is lost in the general fascia, above an inch below the ligament, sometimes sooner. At the inside, a similar, but smaller, limb extends down to the fascia, covering