37 these muscles, and this consequently must be divided. Were the operation performed, in such a case, it would be proper, before opening the membrane, to tie the artery. In the child, the relative distances are somewhat dilferent, and there is generally more ^)f the trachea which might be opened. At the age of three years the diameter of the trachea, externally, is about seven sixteenths, and, internally, nearly a quarter of an inch. The length of the crico-thyroid space is half an inch; but as the upper margin of the cricoid cartilage is straighter than in the adult, it may be enlarged to nearly the breadth of the under margin of the thyroid, which is three quarters. Its diameter, at the upper margin, is nearly an inch and a quarter. The breadth of the space is three six- teenths, and the distance between the crico-thyroid muscles is near a quarter. The situation of the artery is the same as in the adult. It therefore appears that there can be no greater difficulty in the child, than in the adult, in making a sufficient aperture here for respiration. Then, if we attend to the trachea, we find that the distance between the cricoid carti- lage and the sternum is an inch and seven-eighths, but if we measure from the under margin of the cross slip of gland to the sternum, it is only an inch and a half. The thymus gland at this time mounts up five-eighths of an inch above the sternum. We have, therefore, just three quarters of an inch of the trachea between the two glands, and which could be easily exposed. The upper margin of the innominata is level with the surface of the clavicle, and the carotid is not quite off the trachea for perhaps three quarters of an inch above the sternum. There seems, then, no particular ground for preferring tracheotomy in the child, more than in the adult. I know no injury that can be apprehended in either case from the division of part of the crico-thyroideus as a muscle,' for I consider its action as a dilator of the glottis to be very problematic. Before noticing the muscles wliich cover the larynx and trachea, it will be proper to mention the pharynx. This seg- ment of a muscular tube arises from the base of the skull, and IS connected with the different parts it traverses in its descents