109 About one-eighth of an inch more outward, and from the upper and back part of the artery, like the vertebral, but covered by the scalenus, arises the cervicalis profunda. Coming off in a common trunk with it, or from the sub- clavian at the same place and running down on the neck of the first rib, is the superior intercostal, which skirts the inferior cervical ganglion; and a little farther out is the posterior scapular artery. Such is usually the order and relation of these vessels, which begin to go off about an inch and an eighth from the sternal end of the clavicle, and they are so near one another, that in the space of half an inch, sometimes of much less, we have the vertebral, thyroid, and mammary, coming off. The vertebral comes off just where the artery is crossed by the eighth. It runs up about three-fom’ths of an inch to the inside of the transverse process, behind the eighth nerve, and partly covered by the inner margin of the jugular vein. Its course is upwai'd, and at first a little outward, and it is for some time parallel to the carotid but deeper, and about half an inch more outward. It mounts between the scalenus anticus and longus colli. It, generally, immediately sinks deep between these muscles, so that only its origin and a little of the trunk is seen, but sometimes it runs for nearly an inch on a level with their front, and covered by an aponeurosis. At its origin it lies anterior to the inferior ganglion, and is involved in the nerves given off, but the main cord of nerve lies to its inside. The vertebral vein lies partly before it,' partly to its outside. The inferior thyroid artery crosses it obliquely upward and inward. The relations, then, of this artery at the lower part of the neck are very important. On the right side it lies just a little to the outside of the carotid, but deeper, covered by the jugular vein, in contact with the ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, and involved in its branches, and crossed by the thyroid artery. The eighth lies just before its origin, and is in front of it for a little way up, then it is to its inside; the phi'enic nerve passes by its outer side, which is bounded by the margin of the scalenus, as its inner is by that of the longus colli. There