411 render the margin of the triangular fascia less definite, but it also sends a lamina backward over the urethra to the prostate gland. At page 393, I have mentioned, that the proper pelvic fascia is reflected to the bladder at the sides, and also in front, where it forms two duplicatures, called the anterior ligaments. These are often found to be strengthened, within, by similar folds from the fibrous layer just noticed. The pelvic fascia not only covers the obturator internus, and the levator ani (viewed from the pelvis), to the angle of reflection, but a thin layer passes down between these muscles, and is indistinctly continued, on all the inner surface of the levator to the anus. If we introduce the finger between the obturator and levator, and run it forward to the anterior margin of these, we find it stopt by a reflection of thin layer from the one to the other. Farther, if we confine our view to the pelvic fascia, we find it reflected as described at page 393, and if we peel it off at the pubis, we exhibit the inner layer or surface of the tri- angular fascia. It is of much importance to understand how the prostate gland is invested, and we may trace its covering in different ways. If we proceed from the side, we find, that whilst the pelvic fascia is reflected at the vesical end of the gland, or neck of the bladder, up on the bladder as vesical fascia, a layer, at the same spot, passes off in a reversed direc- tion to go over the gland. This gives the best practical idea of the covering, for we see that the whole gland may be cut, and yet the wound does not enter the cavity of the abdomen, or even reach the peritonseum, the angle of reflection of the fascia remaining intact. But as reflections of fascia pass also from the pubis, and likewise from the triangular fascia, to the gland, we may trace the covering of the gland if we please from them. But do as we will, let it be remembered, that there is one fascial covering to the gland, connected or iden- tified with one reflection, as much as with another. The pelvic fascia, when it gets so far back as the rectum, becomes thinner, but it is, in good subjects, seen reflected from the rectum to the bladder, at the upper part of the prostate gland, under the peri- tonaeum. We also find, that at the under or urethral extremity of the gland, it is reflected down on the extremity of rectum.