223 of the disease. The tumour in the parotid region was hard, irreo-ular, immoveable, and very painful. He died a lingering death. Before proceeding to the face, I cursorily notice the Ear, for it is not necessary to be minute here. The meatus externus is important, both as the seat of disease, and a conduit, occasionally, requiring to be syringed. The bony part of it, which is about half an inch long, and three-eighths in diameter, is very thin in front, and the wall which forms it here, descends directly behind the articulating cavity, and from below the root of the zygoma. It is very slightly bent, the concavity being directed upwards. It expands a little at the membrana tympani. The mastoid process is imme- diately behind, so is the outer, and back part of the petrous portion. The process also goes a little more outward. The chorda tympani passes out at the fissure, at the very end of the anterior wall, where the tendon of thelaxator tympani enters. The consequence of fracture of the meatus, or great injury about this part, may easily be understood. When blood is dis- charged from the ear, the membrane, in general, must be torn. Arterial blood may flow from the rupture of the little branches of the stylo-mastoidea and arteria media durae matris. If there be much and continued haemorrhage, par- ticularly of venous blood, it is to be feared, that the fracture is extensive, and communicates with the lateral sinus, which runs by the under margin of the petrous bone, and ends in the jugular vein, almost behind the tympanum. There is no great thickness of bone, intervening between the end of the sinus, and this cavity. The more external part, about half an inch long, is fibro-cartilaginous, lined with skin, under which are the ceruminous glands. The thin, but pretty strong membrana tympani, forms an angle with the lower surface of the meatus, slopping from above, downward, and from without, inward. Its texture is not uniform in every part. The malleus is connected to its inner surface, whilst the stapes is fitted to the fenestra ovalis, and both have deli- cate muscles, which can render the membrane tense, and also act on the stapes. The investing membrane of the cavity, is