between the triceps and the bone, gives a branch to that muscle, then descends on the capsule, and down by the outer margin of the olecranon, to meet the recurrens interossea, which runs up, deep, between the radius and ulna, close by the radial margin of the latter; another, divides in front of the condyle, and anastomoses with the recurrens ulnaris. All these arteries, near the joint, anastomose freely, and when well injected, these deep branches, near the bone, both from the profundae and recurrents, form a very fine ramifica- tion. There is, however, much variety in these branches of the brachial artery. The spiral is sometimes given off by the circumflexa posterior, and the upper muscular branches, usually given by the profunda superior, as well as the posterior or perpendicular branch of the spiral, may come off separately from the parent artery. The ramus anastomoticus, is often, especially when it comes off high, aided by a still lower branch, rising very near the bend of the arm, which, after giving a division to the brachieus, runs down on the front of the inner condyle and of the capsule. Irreg- ular muscular branches, are also given off, from the brachial artery, which have no name. Most of these run outward, crossing, in some places, in front of, in others, behind the outer vena comes. One large branch is often sent off, high, to ramify in the biceps. Near the insertion of the coraco- brachialis, a small one runs downward and outward into the bone, and to the medulla. Its canal is on the inner and anterior face of the middle of the bone, and is too small to admit a catheter wire. All these branches have their vense comites. It is not very rare to find the radial, or, less frequently, the ulnar, come off high in the arm. It has been said, that when the radial comes off high, it is superficial, whereas, if the ulnar be the branch given off prematurely, it runs as usual under the fascia. My brother stated the case, in his dissections, to be quite the reverse. My own observation would lead me to say, that, though both arteries be under the brachial fascia, yet, the radial is more superficial, than the humeral artery ought to be. It is found by the margin of