287 lique tract of the vessels toward the joint, is the vein. At the lower margin of the subclavius muscle, it meets the artery, and gets on the lower, and inner part of its front, where it meets with the outer head of the median nerve, the two together covering the artery. At this spot, about an inch below the lower margin of the clavicle, and fully an inch and three quarters, out from its sternal end, the thoracica humeraria and superior appeal*, with the anterior thoracic nerve. Just be- low the root of the superior thoracic, we see the artery crossed, in a direction downward and outward, by a nerve, as large as a crow quill. It is an addition to the outer head of the me- dian. A vein, in a reverse direction, also crosses the artery here, whilst, just above this, it is traversed by the cephalic, which enters the subclavian at an angle. Detaching the axillary vein, so as to let it fall lower, we see the artery, bounded above, and in front, by the outer head of the me- dian nerve, with its additional portion or small head, the exter- nal cutaneous lying to the outside of the large head, and be- low, by the inner head, and internal cutaneous, coming out from between it and the vein. These heads of the median, speedily unite, and form a trunk on the face of the artery, which continues there, so that, excepting the small portion above the union of the heads, no part of the artery is seen, even when the vein is detached. The ulnar nerve, is moi*e behind the inner head of the median, and the artery. The spiral is behind all these, particularly the outer head of the median, and the outer half of the artery. Between the outer nerve, or external cutaneous, and the acromion, is an angle, filled with fatty cellular substance, in which, situated deeply, we see a long branch, generally, either directly from the spiral, or from the articularis nerve, descend- ing between the plexus and subscapularis muscle, toward the axillary fold of the latissimus dorsi, often accompanied with a large branch from the mammaria externa. Farther forward, we have the posterior thoracic nerve, going down on the serratus. It is not seen till it get lower than the tract of the axillary vessels and nerves, for it lies behind the plexus. The upper and back part of this space, which is part of the axilla, is