481 attaches itself to the inner border of the sartorius, very near where that meets the line of the descending artery. It con- tinues attached to the border, for about two inches, more or less, in different cases. It then, the muscle going obliquely inward, passes down on its face for a little, and next is found by the outer margin. It gives twigs to the muscle, or some- times it is principally spent on its undersurface; but it is also a cutaneous nerve, traceable to near the knee. The Saphenus, or nervus longus, runs behind the external circumflex, and down by the outside of the femoral artery, exterior to its proper sheath, but covered by the fascia. It, in its descent, gets a little more forward, so that, about seven inches below the ligament, it is as far forward as the artery, close by its outer margin ; and, at two inches above the perforation in the triceps, or sometimes earlier, it is more forward than the artery, which, by that time, is inclining backward. When the artery turns through the perforation to get to the ham, the nerve continues its course downward on the vastus, and emerges from under the sartorius at the knee, where it meets the vena saphena, and goes down to the foot—hence its name of longus. Many small muscular branches are, as it descends, given off, which Fischer has been at the pains to number. About four inches above the condyle, a large branch is given off, which runs on the under surface of the sartorius, and then either perforates it, or passes out by its margin, to be distributed to the skin about the knee, and upper part of the leg. The sartorius muscle meets the artery at a distance below Poupart’s ligament, varying from one inch and a half, to three and a half. This does not depend on sex. If the fascial connexion of the muscle be removed, it, by receding, seems to meet the artery lower than it really does. A very frequent distance is two and three quarters, oftener a little less rather than more. The muscle itself varies in breadth, being some- times only an inch, in other cases near two inches broad. The obliquity of its course is also variable, so that sometimes it has quite crossed the artery, and its ilial margin corre- sponds to the line of the vessel, at three inches and a half, II. 2 I