150 additions from it, or gives them to it. The ninth, at this part, is more superficial than all these, lying more on their front. The accessory presently comes more forward, and passes by the outer margin of the internal carotid and eighth pair of nerves, crosses over the jugular vein, and under the occipital artery, downward and outward over the transverse process of the atlas, on the rectus lateralis, a little to the out- side of the anterior branch of the suboccipital nerve, which is deeper between the recti. It crosses the vein obliquely about an inch above the peak of the angle of the jaw, passing between the point of the styloid process and the vein. It reaches the outer margin of the vein, a little below the angle of the jaw, sometimes rather higher, covered by the upper part of the belly of the digastric, which must cross it. In some cases, it passes behind the vein. It soon comes on the upper head of the levator scapulae, and becomes connected with the under surface of the mastoid muscle, about an inch and a half below the mastoid pi'ocess. It either glides along the under surface, or it passes through its substance, and comes out at its posterior margin, in order to get to the under surface of the trapezius, on-which it I'amifies, and enters the substance of that muscle, and also gives twigs to the levator scapulae. This transit of the nerve, from the one muscle to the other, takes place about two inches below the mastoid process, or a little lower, if the neck be long. If we separate the two muscles, a little, here, we see the trunk passing obliquely, and near this place it forms the connexion I have already described, with the little occipital nerve, which is sometimes so intimate, that the accessory seems to rise from the plexus there formed. The nerve may also be found by turning back the anterior margin of the mastoid a little higher. I have next to mention, that whilst the nerve is in the mastoid muscle, it gives off a large branch, which ramifies in it, and supplies it, for it only receives small twigs from the cervical nerves. This distribution of the accessory, is well seen in the horse, where it soon divides into two large bi’anches, one entering the sterno-maxillary muscle, and running down deeply in its substance, another going backw'ard to the levator humeri.