27G together with the integuments, to be held aside by retractors, but we ought not to cut out, or remove, any of the substance, if we can avoid it; but, if necessary, one or two glands are more usefully removed, than cellular substance. We recollect now the relation of the veins and arterial bi-anches, and steer clear of the immediate surface of the clavicle. The finger introduced into the wound, directly back, if the patient be sitting, will, at the point already noted, feel the resisting rib, at the mai'gin of the scalenus, and by cautious dissection, using the forceps and the sponge, the artery is exposed. But, in doing this, there is much risk of dividing the deep veins already described, which would bleed freely, and obscure the parts. If these cannot be avoided, or if any small artery be wounded, a ligatux'e should be immediately applied. It is also necessary to remember, that either the supra or posterior scapular artery, sometimes, comes off from the subclavian, just at this point, and therefore much circumspection is re- quired in sepai'ating the artery. This is farther unfortunate, in as much as if the ligature be applied beyond the origin of this branch, it must be so near it, as to render oblitei’ation less certain, and if nearer the heart, then, we are deprived of a valuable anastomosing branch, but this is the least of the two evils. This is also the case, when the artery rises a lit- tle farther on. In some instances, the transversalis humeri (from the thyroid) is close on the muscles and nerves, at the exit of the artery, in place of being more forward toward the clavicle. It may be so close on the artery, as to require to be drawn up. I have seen both of these cix'cumstances of the arteries, in the same subject, combined, also, with the ex- ternal jugular vein, covering the spot where the artery issued. The omo-hyoideus, is sometimes so low, as to require to be drawn up, in order to expose the artery. The finger, far less the knife, must never be carried lower, on the rib, than necessary, lest we lay the foundation of burrowing, or extension of matter afterwards, or immediately injure the subclavian vein. The artery lies close on the rib, and is to be insulat- ed with a blunt instrument. Its avex*age height, and depth fx’om the inner surface of the clavicle, have been already r