248 small branches to the cheek, anastomosing with the transver- salis faciei and infra-ovbitar. Next, iri’egular branches are given to the nose, the lateral, or dorsal, nasal arteries, to its skin and muscles. The trunk passes on, between the two origins of the levator labii alaeque nasi, lying, as it were on the line of union, and reaches the canthus, where it traverses the surface of the tendon of the orbicularis, running nearer the nose, than the proper line of incision, for opening the lachrymal sac. It anastomoses with the ophthalmic and frontal arteries. The supra-orbitar, is a branch of the ophthalmic, and ac- companies the supra-orbitar nerve. The frontal, and nasal, pass out of the orbit, at the inner canthus, between the tendon of the orbicularis, and that of the superior oblique, the one going to the forehead, the other to the nose, lachry- mal sac, &c. Another artery of the face, is the Transversalis Faciei. This comes off either from the inferior maxillary, or oftener from the external carotid, about three quarters of an inch below the root of the zygoma, and in the substance of the parotid gland. It gives off a branch, which runs in, between the bone and the masseter, whilst its trunk, pretty large, runs forward, rather covered by, than in, the gland, in a line about three-eighths of an inch below the zygoma, with one of the largest branches of the portio dura, along its under margin. It supplies the district which it traverses, all the way to the buccinator, anastomosing with the facial. It has an accompanying vein above and below, or, if there be only one, it is large. Just below the root of the condyle, or near an inch below the root of the zygoma, the carotid artery divides, in the parotid gland, into the Temporal and Internal Maxillary. The latter, which is as large as the radial artery at its origin, passes for- ward, between the neck of the jaw bone, and the internal lateral ligament, at about five-eighths of an inch, below the top of the condyle. It is not uniform in its course. Often, for a very little way, it runs obliquely forward and outward, along the under surfiice, of the pterygoideus externus, by the outer sur-