51G the heel. The toes are pointed, and tlie foot inverted. The’ fibula is broken just above the astragalus, the malleolar pro- cess remaining attached to that bone, whilst the end of the shaft is carried forward with the tibia, which perhaps scarcely touches the tarsal bones, or, if it do, it rests obliquely on the astragalus or naviculare. The malleolar process of the tibia is also in many cases broken. The fibula, and outer side of the tibia, are twisted a little forward. The capsular liga- ment is opened, and the deltoid more or less torn. Reduc- tion is to be accomplished, by fixing the thigh. The foot is to be laid hold of by the dorsum and heel, and pulled in a direction forward. We then press the tibia back, whilst we gently bend the foot forward, to turn the bones into their place. Splints, with foot-pieces, are as usual to be applied. The foot is not to be extended, and pads, if necessary, must be applied in front. The advantage of the supine, over the lateral posture, is, that we can place the heel on a cushion, which tends to prevent displacement. Sir Astley Cooper describes a partial dislocation forward. The fibula is broken. The tibia rests partly on the astra- galus, partly on the naviculare, the foot appears but little shortened, nor is there much projection of the heel, which is drawn up, whilst the toes are pointed downward. The treatment is the same. The only case that I have seen of supposed dislocation backward, turned out on dissection, to have been a fracture of the end, with a displacement of the shaft, of the tibia. The astragalus has a bod}', articulated with the tibia and os calcis, and an anterior projection, which joins the navicu- lare. Its dislocation is prevented by the interosseous and the posterior ligaments, aided by the deltoid, and two of the external lateral. A complete dislocation is therefore rare, but oftener the anterior projection is separated from the naviculare, and raised, whilst the body is not so entirely dis- placed, as to permit the tibia to rest on the calcaneum. When the projection is thrown outward, it rests partly on the os calcis, and partly on the cuboides, and the hollow of the naviculare is vacant, 'riie anterior margin of the tibia