33 succeeded, but the danger is great, and we must, to justify it, liave the paroxysms severe, whilst other symptoms are com- paratively mild, or at least not discouraging. In fatal cases of common croup, we often find little inflam- mation of the trachea or lungs. The membrane of the for- mer indeed is a little redder than usual, and slightly smeared with muco-purulent fluid. The latter are darker, and perhaps in some places firmer than usual, and the bronchi contain brownish mucus. But the main disease is often apparently confined to the very top of the larynx, the membrane of the glottis and vestibule being red, thickened, and covered with muco-pus, which also sometimes fills and obliterates the sacculi. The obstruction evidently proceeds from swelling of the membrane, whereby all the apertures already described are diminished in size. Now, here it may be said, that the chief seat of the disease being high, and the trachea and lungs not affected to a degree, which of itself should be fatal, we ought to expect benefit from the operation. But we must not lose sight of the fact stated in the preceding page, that the system sympathizes much with the local disease, and therefore the temporary relief in breathing may not save the patient. We have not, yet, so many cases where the operation was performed, as to enable us to decide on the merit. But of one thing: I am certain, namely, that if an operation is to be performed at all, it ought to be done much earher than usual. If bleed- ing, and the other means at fii’st employed, do not speedily arrest and mitigate the disease, it soon runs on to a stage in which we can have no rational hope of any operation being useful. Spasmodic croup, as it has been called, seems to depend rather on a loss of power of the dilators, than on spasm of the constrictors. It soon leads, however, to inflammation, and then differs little in its progress from the spasm jiist noticed. There is the same ground here, as soon as vigorous means have been fruitlessly tried for checking the disease, to consider the advantages and disadvantages of an operation. We must not, however, forget, that in many cases, this spasm depends on disease near the origin of the eighth pair of nerves. The