295 above it. Removing the axillary vein, we see the nerves, which vary, slightly, in their relative position, but generally cover completely the artery, or hide it all the way up. We see the internal cutaneous, covering the ulnar; to the outside of these, we see the median. In axillary aneurism, the nerves are either separated, and spread over, and around the sac, or it protrudes more between them, pushing them aside. In neither case, is there, necessarily, decided weakness, or pain, in the arm. These effects are most likely to take place, when the tumour is so large as to make much pressure. This view, gives us little encouragement to dissect deep, in the axilla, in order to tie the axillary artery. The parts are so connected, and so important, that no one dare use the knife high, and even near the under margin of the subscapu- laris muscle, we can only think of insulating the artery, when the axilla is, already, by the accident, extensively opened. In“the extirpation of glands, the axillary artery cannot be wounded, without the most unaccountable rashness, for the vein defends it, and must first be injured. That may hap- pen, from using the knife too near the outer part of the cavity, and, in like manner, the infra-scapulary vein may be cut, by heedlessly going too near the margin, and surface, of the subscapularis muscle. I, next, attend to that portion of the artery, which traverses the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. Looking, outward, toward the bone, we see, first, the great vein, which is interposed be- tween the eye and the nerves, or, a part of the median nerve may be seen in front, the rest hid. Beyond this, is the coraco-brachialis. Drawing the vein backward, and down- ward, along the face of the tendon, we see the cord of nerves, generally, in the following order:—First, we see most inter- nal, or farthest back, the internal cutaneous and median. 1 he former lies on the ulnar, and hides it, till the parts be cleaned, and a little separated. It also lies partly on the median. Raising it, we see, first, the ulnar, then the median. The spiral is close on the tendon, sometimes hiding the ulnar, oftener, hid by the ulnar as well as by the artery. The external cutaneous is not seen, as it lies on the other side.