514. malleoli properly fitted, so as to avoid pressure on these prominences. If there be much pain, we must, till the in- flammation, by the usual means, be subdued, trust more to due support on the outer margin of the foot, than to bandages. If we do not attend to our manipulation, the cure, if such it can be called, is accomplished with a foot more or less dis- torted, the patient walking, not on the sole, but obliquely, on the inside of his foot. In the proper position, a line drawn along the dorsum of the great toe and its metatarsal bone, if continued, should lead to the tuberosity of the tibia. The most frequent dislocation at the ankle, is of the tibia inwards. There can be no dislocation without fracture of the fibula. If this occur at two and a half inches above its end, the lower portion must be much bent, and the inter- osseous ligament stretched. But if the fracture be on a level with the top of the astragalus, the shaft of the fibula goes more directly with the tibia, its end rests on the articu- lating surface of the astragalus, and its ligamentary connex- ion with the tibia remains entire. If it be an inch higher, just at the top of the natural connexion with the tibia, the interosseous ligament is not stretched, but the apparatus connecting the two bones, must be torn, or in some cases the corresponding portion of tibia is broken off, and remains with the fibula. The deltoid ligament must be torn, and the tendons behind the inner ankle, if they follow the tibia, are stretched. The end of the tibia, or inner ankle, projects very much, forming a tumour under the skin and aponeuro- sis. It rests on the inner side of the astragalus, whilst the broken end of the fibula is on the top of that bone. The sole of the foot is everted, and its inner margin rests on the ground. There is free rotation. To reduce, the leg must be bent to relax the gastrocnemii, and it is best to lay the patient in bed on the affected side. The leg and thigh being held, an assistant makes extension of the foot from the leg, at the same time that he points the toes downward, and turns the outer margin inward. During this manipulation, the surgeon presses the tibia into its place. He must see that the reduction is perfect, and the great toe in the line of