170 have seen the eighth and sympathetic cut, partly out on one side, with the carotid artery and jugular vein, without any effect on the breathing, or stomach; but the person died in a few hours, apparently of mere exhaustion fi’om the loss of blood, pain, &c. attendant on the removal of a large tumour. If a portion of nerve be cut out, it does not appear that the two ends become afterwards joined by any substance possessing the property of nerve, neither does the divided nerve acquire the power of supplying the parts it goes to, with energy, like a ganglionic nerve. In other words, the divided extremity of the eighth pair, cannot, by enlargement, or otherwise, be converted into a ganglion, so as to permit us with impunity to cut the nerve on the other side, as we may do with regard to the sympathetic. The trunk of the eighth pair, like the sympathetic, does not seem to be sensible, for we may cut it, or prick, or pinch it, without causing pain; but the parts to which it goes, are sensible, as we see in spasm of the stomach, griping, &c. Does the sensibility of these parts depend on twigs furnished by the spinal nerves to the ganglion ? Pain is felt when either the eighth or sympathetic nerves are inflamed. Lobstein relates an interesting case of continued vomiting in pregnancy, accompanied with burning pain in the region of the semi- lunar ganglion, which was found inflamed. The neck may be divided into a right and a left side by the median line; and into an anterior and posterior, by the lateral line. This line is drawn from the front of the mastoid pro- cess, the head being level, to the shoulder, or end of the clavicle, at a point just back from the coracoid process. The line between these two, and which subdivides this fourth of the neck into two, is drawn from the front of the angle of the jaw to the clavicle, about two inches from its sternal end. This line will meet the anterior margin of the mastoid muscle, about an inch below the angle of the jaw, and leaves its pos- terior margin, when the muscle is broad, about two inches and three quarters below the angle. The important vessels