GO ing as it descends, goes downward and forw'ard within the digastric and stylo-hyoideus muscles along the posterior mar- gin of the hyo-glossus to the os hyoides. Near its termina- tion it meets the ninth pair of nerves, and either passes under It, or splits into two layers, one going over, another under the nerve, after which it is inserted into the os liyoides, at the junction of its body and horn. I would not consider it as necessary to notice this strip, were it not that it has been described as a particular ligament, the ligamentum stylo- mylo-hyoideum. Ninth, On removing the platysma-myoides, and prosecuting the examination, so far as I have gone, the duplicature and expansions I have described, may all be considered as con- tinuations of the same fascia, more or less distinct. We can trace it down along the neck, all the way to the clavicle, not only covering the muscles, but diving between them, and surrounding many of them, covering the vessels and nerves, and binding all the parts together. Although it be a continuation of the myloid portion of fascia, and of that descending over, and from beneath, the parotid gland, it here receives the name of deep cervical fascia, to distinguish it from the superficial one connected with the fibres of the platysma-myoides. But I must next mention, that although the platysmal fascia be superficial, and in most places, leaves, when dissected off, this deep one distinct, yet, it is in all its extent adherent to it, by cellular substance, and in some places very intimately. Thus, as it mounts over the parotid gland, we find it so attached to its layer of fascia on the face, as to form a covering to the surface of the gland, or a parotid fascia. We also observe, that in the neck it is, par- ticularly at the margin of the mastoid muscle, so identified with the deep fascia, that its prolongation under that muscle w'ould almost appear to be a prolongation of an inner layer of platysmal fascia. And thus, although we still admitted the distinction of superficial and deep fascia of the neck and jaw, we would say, that like the serous membrane of the abdomen, whatever name we gave to particular portions, all were parts of the same sheet. If I appear to have given too minute