102 dissection, we see the nerve, which is to be slightly separated, and pressed upward. The nerve is more easily seen than the artery, and is a good guide. If the digastric muscle become soon tendinous, it too is seen, and is also a mark; for at this place it is higher than the artery, but still it may be so low as to ovei-hang the vessel. A little farther forward, its tendon, quite covers the artery, with the intervention of the hyo-glossus. The site of the artery should, by this dissection, be exposed, but it may not be seen. It is deeper than the surface of the extremity of the horn, and hid, as it were, between the caro- tid artery and the hyo-glossus. With two blunt hooks, we may press back the former, and draw forward the margin of the latter; but if we make much extension, we stretch the lingual artery, unless it have been curved, and make it smaller, and less distinct. The length of artery which we can expose, will depend on the position of its origin, which will determine the straightness or obliquity of the course; on the curling of the arteiy; on the proximity of the carotid to the os hyoides; and on the extent to which the hyo-glossus arises from the hoVn. There is seldom above a quarter of an inch, sometimes not so much, between the carotid and the hyo-glossus. We may indeed cut up a little of the hyo-glossus, but that requires caution, lest we also open the vessel. If this is to be done, a small director should be introduced beneath the muscle, close by the margin of the lingual nerve. The artery is not so insulated as, even when found, to be tied hastily, for we have seen that two deep veins run by its margins, and the pharyn- geal is perhaps directly below it, and very possibly the supe- rior lai’yngeal nerve is likewise there. In many cases, the superior thyroid artery and vein, and the ramus laryngeus, are also much closer on this part of the artery, and more in the way of being wounded than is suspected. When the lingual artery is opened in wounds of the throat, it is to be looked for, if near its origin, by the direction given. If more remote, it will be found on the inside of the hyo-glossus, and thei'e is no danger of including the nerve in the ligature, if we do not also include the muscle, for they are on opposite sides of it. The course of the artery at the side, is covered,