151 . Some glands lie in the course of this nerve. It passes through a cluster of two or three, as it leaves the jugular vein, and one often is met with where it joins the occipital nerve. If these glands swell or inflame, the nerve is apt to suffer, and both the trapezius and mastoid muscle become stiff, and sometimes painful. A very frequent cause of stiff and wry neck, is this enlargement of the glands, when the nerve is involved, A cure is generally obtained by using fomentations of tepid water, rubbing with diluted mercurial ointment, with the addition of camphor, strict regulation of the diet and bowels, and the use of iodine internally. Contraction of the muscle, or the opposite state of palsy, may arise from affection of the spinal cord, at the upper part of the neck, or of the vertebral artery, and in some of these the patient complains of feeling of great weight in the shoulders. The occipital nerve also may par- ticipate. I must next mention, that as this nerve is passing out by the canal of the dura mater, it gives off a branch which joins the eighth, and it also contributes to the pharyngeal nerve. We can thus understand how the muscular affections I have alluded to, may be complicated, not only with uneasiness in the pharynx, and difficulty of swallowing, but with disordered function of the eighth pair. The nerves to be next noticed, not only are distributed to the neck and its blood-vessels, but also go on to the viscera of the thorax and abdomen. Of these the first to be described is the Sympathetic. The superior ganglion of this nerve is always large, being seldom less, but sometimes considerably more, than an inch long. It lies on the rectus major, where that traverses the front of the transverse processes of the atlas and dentata, and sometimes even is prolonged lower. Its relations have already been so far described at page 88, par- ticularly of the upper and thickest part. From the top there ascends a branch, which, dividing into two, enters the foramen caroticum. There, it forms on the outer margin of the artery, about the middle of the canal, a small ganglion, called the cavernose or carotic ganglion. From this, twigs are sent off to tlie trunk of the artery, and along the ophthalmic artery, and