459 more or less distinct, intervenes, having, also, a lunated border, looking upward. Through the opening thus formed, and more fully described afterwards, the artery and vein pass, to get to the ham. No pressure can be made on the vessels by the action of the muscle, for the aperture is not a mere slit, but a lunated opening, protected also from pressure by the agency of the round tendon. Turning to the back of the thigh, we see distinctly, on removing the fascia, the Gluteus maximus. Its superior margin is marked by a line from the crest, one inch and a half forward from the posterior spine, to about one inch and a half above the trochanter, though the insertion be lower. This also shows the meeting of this with the medius, which shelves under it. The inferior margin is in a line, from the end of the coccyx to the outside of the thigh, about six inches and a half, below the top of the trochanter. It begins to be implanted into the linea aspera below the top of the trochanter, and it is continued down for about five inches. Cutting it across, and turning it aside, we see the whole of the Medius, which rises from the crest and dorsum of the ilium, from its anterior spine, to the notch. The under, or posterior margin, is in a line from the posterior spine of the ilium to the top of the trochanter. It marches with the pyriformis. The anterior margin is in a line downward, from the superior spine of that bone, to the outside of the thigh. This is connected with the Tensor. It is inserted into the top or margin of the trochanter, and all along its front, by a very thick tendon. The Minimus, is seen by raising the medius. It rises from the anterior spine, back to the notch, and often down to the spine of the ischium, and is inserted, by a broad tendon, into the inner surface of the trochanter, just within the medius. Its anterior margin is much the same with that of the medius, and it is covered by the tensor, and, along with the rectus, it covers the outer and anterior part of the capsule. If we remove the gluteus medius, we see better the deepest layer. Tracing downwards, we have, first, the gluteus-