436 back as, or a little farther than, the implantation of the external oblique. Its posterior margin ascends to the last rib, and, in its course up, is connected with the line of fascia lumhorum, at the margin of the quadratus. It rises also from Poupart’s ligament, to within a distance, varying in different cases, of the tubercle of the pubis. The direction of the fibres, and their implantation into tendon, I need not at present describe. On removing the external oblique, and turning back the latissimus, we see a little of the Transversalis uncovered, at the upper part of the internal oblique. This last being taken off, we find that the transversalis rises from the fascia lum- borum, at the margin of the quadratus, from the inner surface of the six lower ribs, from the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, and from Poupart’s ligament, forward to the superior aperture of the inguinal canal. The muscular fibres do not, at the top, rise so far back, and, therefore, there, more of the fascia lumborum is seen. This stronsf fascia can be traced under the muscular fibres, as far forward as the end of the last rib, where it becomes thin, and is lost in a cellular lining of the muscle. Near the linea semilunaris, the tendon of the muscle commences, and, with that of the internal oblique, passes behind the rectus muscle, till midway between the umbilicus and pubis, when both pass before it. (In the upper part, the internal oblique is said to send a layer in front of the rectus.) Often the transversalis, near the ensi- form cartilage, is muscular under the rectus. The tendon of the internal oblique, and that of the transversalis, are so con- joined, that we should say, the muscular fibres of the former employed the tendon of the latter, were it not that we can, for a very short space, distinguish a tendon proper to the oblique. At the inguinal canal, the tendon of the transver- salis is, of necessity, separated from the lining, or tendon, of the oblique, and, at the margin of the rectus muscle, we may trace the tendons from the point of union, either on the inner surface of the oblique, or to the transversalis, as if the one were reflected to the other. Lastly, it is to be recollected, that the pelvic fascia, ot