158 here by cellular substance, as well as by interlacement of nervous substance. 'Phe ninth is most superficial, lying between the artery and vein, till it reach near the angle of the jaw, when it crosses in front of the external carotid. Just behind it, and a very little more inward, is the eighth, with the superior ganglion by its inside. The accessory here is deepest of all, and overlapped by the outer margin of the ganglion. All these important nerves, are, at this part, covered at first by the distended jugular, and only the inner margin of the carotid is seen. Presently the ninth appears, and the accessory comes forward to cross the vein obliquely. At the lower margin of the digastric, the descendens noni comes off, and runs down parallel to, and often, for a time, connected with the front of the eighth- The trunk of this last runs down the neck, between the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein, deeply buried between them, but connected with the vein, rather than the artery. It is seen by separating the two vessels; and when we come near the clavicle, it is even deeper with regard to the vein, for that comes a little more forward. It either covers the vertebral artery, or lies a very little to its tracheal side; and on the left side, it crosses the course of the thoracic duct. On the right side, it passes down over the face of the subclavian artery, very near its origin, the outer margin of the nerve being about half an inch inward from the scalenus. It then pro- ceeds into the thorax, in a direction downwai’d, and somewhat inwards, toward the median line. After entering the thorax, it is at first found by the side of the trachea, but it speedily gets deepei’, goes round by the back of the trachea, then * under the division of the two bronchiae, between the trachea and oesophagus. On the left side, as the carotid, near the clavicle, is rather deeper than on the right, the nerve is there more nearly level with its surface. It passes down by its out- side, and then over the aorta. The first branch of the eighth, is given off immediately after the nerve issues from the cranium. It is the superior pharyngeal, so called to distinguish it from a smaller one, which sometimes exists, and comes off lower. It descends