647 THE LIVER. intestine. They are small, i)rominent, flask-shaped bodies, of a whitish colour, perforated upon the central part of their free surface bj a minute orifice, which, in the majority, is permanent. The Livek. The liver is a glandular organ of large size, intended mainly for the secretion of the bile, but effecting also important changes in certain constituents of the blood in their passage through the gland. It is situated in the right hypochondriac region, and extends across the epigastrium into the left hypochondrium. It is the largest gland in the body, weighing from three to four pounds (from fifty to sixty ounces avoirdupois). It measures, in its transverse diameter, from ten to twelve inches; from six to seven in its antero-posterior; and is about three inches thick at the back part of the right lobe, which is the thickest part. Its upper surface is convex, directed upwards and forwards, smooth, covered by peritoneum. It is in relation with the under surface of the Diaphragm; and below, to a small extent, with the abdominal parietes. This surfiice is divided into two unequal lobes, the right and left, by a fold of peritoneum, the suspensory or broad ligament. Its under surface is concave, directed downwards and backwards, and in rela- tion with the stomach and duodenum, the hepatic flexure of the colon, and the right kidney and suprarenal capsule. The surface is divided by a longitudinal fissure into a right and left lobe. The posterior border is rounded and broad, and connected to the Diaphragm by the coronary ligament; it is in relation with the aorta, the vena cava, and the crura of the Diaphragm. The anterior border is thin and sharp, and marked, opposite the attachment of the broad ligament, by a deep notch. In adult males, this border usually corre- sponds with the margin of the ribs; but in women and children, it projects usually below this point. The right extremity of the liver is thick and rounded; whilst the left is thin and flattened. _ Changes of Position. The student should make himself acquainted with the different circumstances under which the liver changes its position, as they are of importance in determining the existence of enlargement, or other disease of that organ. Its position varies according to the posture of the body ; in the upright and sitting postures, its lower border may be felt below the edges of the ribs ; in the recumbent postui-e, it usually recedes behind the ribs. Its position varies, also, with the ascent or descent of the Diaphragm. In a deep inspiration, the liver descends below the ribs ; in expiration, it is raised to its ordinary level. Again, in emphysema, where the lungs are distended, and the Diaphragm descends very low, the liver is pushed down; in some other diseases, as phthisis, where the Diaphragm is much arched, the liver rises very high up. Pressure from without, as in tight lacmg, by compressing the lower part of the chest, displaces the liver considerably, its anterior edge often extending as low as the crest of the iliurn ; and its convex surface is often, at the same time, deeply indented from pressure of the ribs. Again, its position varies greatly, according to the greater or less distension of the stomach and intestines. When the intestines are empty, the fiver descends in the abdomen; but when they are distended, it is pushed upwards. Its relations to sur- rounding organs may also be changed by the growth of tumours, or by collections of fluid in the thoracic or abdominal cavities. Ligaments. The ligaments of the liver (fig. 341) are five in number: four being formed of folds of peritoneum; the fifth, the ligamentum teres, is a round, fibrous cord, resulting from the obliteration of the umbilical vein. The ligaments are the longitudinal, two lateral, coronary, and round. The longitudinal ligament (broad, falciform, or suspensory ligament) is a broad and thin antero-posterior peritoneal fold, falciform in shape, its base being directed forwards, its apex backwards. It is attached by one margin to the under surface of the Diaphragm, and the posterior surface of the sheath of the right Rectus muscle as low down as the umbilicus; by its hepatic margin, it extends from the