264 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. As these three sets of fibres converge, they are so disposed that the upper overlap the middle, and the middle the lower portion, the fibres of the lower portion being folded backwards upon themselves; so that those fibres which are lowest in front, become highest at their point of insertion. They all terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches broad, which is inserted into the anterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. This tendon consists of two laminaa, placed one in front of the other, and usually blended together below. The anterior, the thicker, receives the cla- vicular and upper half of the sternal portion of the muscle; the posterior lamina receiving the attachment of the lower half of the sternal portion. From this arrangement, it results, that the fibres of the upper and middle portions of the muscle are inserted into the lower part of the bicipital ridge; those of the lower portion, into the upper Y>nrt. The tendon, at its insertion, is connected with that of the Deltoid; it sends up an expansion over the bicipital groove to the head of the humerus; another backwards, which lines the groove; and a third to the fascia of the arm. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Platysraa, the mammary gland, the superficial fascia, and integument. By its posterior surf ace — its thoracic portion, with the sternum, the ribs and costal cartilages, the Subclavius, Pectoralis minor, Serratus magnus, and the Intercostals; its axillary portion forms the anterior wall of the axillary space, and covers the axillary vessels and nerves. Its vpper border lies parallel Avith the Deltoid, from which it is separated by the cephalic vein and descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery. Its loicer border forms the anterior margin of the axilla, being at first separated from the Latissimus dorsi by a considerable interval; but both muscles gradually converge towards the outer part of this space. Peculiarities. In muscular subjects, the sternal origins of the two Pectoral muscles are separated only by a narrow interval; but this interval is enlarged where these muscles are ill developed. Very rarely, the whole of the sternal portion is deficient. Occasionally, one or two additional muscular slips arise from the aponeurosis of the External oblique, and become united to the lower margin of the Pectoralis major. A slender muscular slip is occasionally found lying parallel with the outer margin of the sternum, overlapping the origin of the pectoral muscle. It is attached, by one end, to the upper part of the sternum, near the origin of the sterno-mastoid ; and, by the other, to the anterior wall of the sheath of the rectus abdominis. It has received the name ' rectus sternalis.' Dissection. Detach the Pectoralis major by dividing the muscle along its attachment to the clavicle, and by making a vertical incision through its substance a little external to its line of attachment to the steinum and costal cartilages. The muscle should then be reflected outwards, and its tendon carefully examined. The Pectoralis minor is now exposed, and immediately above it, in the interval between its upper border and the clavicle, a strong fascia, the costo-coracoid membrane. The costo-coracoid membrane protects the axillary vessels and nerves: it is very thick and dense externally, where it is attached to the coracoid process, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm; more internally, it is connected with the lower border of the clavicle, as far as the inner extremity of the first rib: traced downwards, it passes behind the Pectoralis minor, suiTounding, in a more or less complete sheath, the axillary vessels and nerves; and above, it sends a prolongation behind the Subsclavius, which is attached to the lower border of the clavicle, and so encloses the muscle in a kind of sheath. The costo-coracoid membrane is pierced by the cephalic vein, the acromial-thoracic artery and vein, superior thoracic artery, and anterior thoracic nerve. The Pectoralis Minor (fig. 170) is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, situated at the upper part of the thorax, beneath the Pectoralis major. It arises, by three tendinous digitations, from the upper margin and outer surface of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, near their cartilages, and from the aponeurosis covering the Inter- costal muscles: the fibres pass upwards and outwards, and converge to form a flat tendon, which is inserted into the anterior border of the coracoid process of the scapula. lielations. By its anterior surfate, with the Pectoralis major, and the superior thoracic vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface, with the ribs, Intercostal