382 ARTERIES. along the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, to the base of the first phalanx, where it divides into two branches, which run along the sides of the palmar aspect of the thumb, and -Ulnar and Radial Arteries. Deep View. form an arch on the under surface of the last phalanx, from which branches are distributed to the integument and cellular membrane of the thumb. The radialis itidicis arises close to the preceding, descends between the Abductor indicis and Adductor pollicis, and runs along the radial side of the index finger to its ex- tremity, where it anastomoses with the collateral digital artery from the superficial palmar arch. At the lower border of the Adductor pol- licis this vessel anastomoses with the princeps pollicis, and gives a communicating branch to the super- ficial palmar arch. Theperfora7ites,three in number, pass backwards between the heads of the last three Dorsal interossei muscles, to inosculate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. The palmar interossei}^ihree or four in number, are branches of the deep palmar arch; they run for- wards upon the Interossei muscles, and anastomose at the clefts of the fingers with the digital branches of the superficial arch. Ulnar Artery. The Ulnar Artery, the larger of the two subdivisions of the bra- chial, commences a little below the bend of the elbow, and crosses the inner side of the forearm obliquely inwards, to the commencement of its lower half; it then runs along its ulnar border to the wrist, crosses the annular ligament on the radial side, of the pisiform bone, and passes across the palm of the hand, forming the superficial palmar arch, which terminates by inosculating with the superficialis volag. Relations in the Forearm. In its upper half, it is deeply seated, being covered by all the superficial flexor muscles, excepting the Flexor carpi ulnaris; it is crossed by the median uerve, which lies to its inner side for about an inch, and it lies upon the Brachialis anticus and Flexor profundus digitorum muscles. In the lower half of the forearm, it lies upon the Flexor profundus, being covered by the integument, the superficial and deep fascia, and is placed between the Flexor carpi ulnaris and Flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. It is accompanied by two ■7i of THTiar