45 ETHMOID BONE. At birth, the sphenoid consists of three pieces: viz. the greater wing and pterygoid processes on each side; the lesser wings and body united. At the first year after birth, the greater wings and body are united. From the tenth to the twelfth year, the spongy bones are partially united to the sphenoid, their junction being complete by the twentieth year. Lastly, the sphenoid joins the occipital. Articulations. The sphenoid articulates Avith all the bones of the cranium, and five of the fsice; the two malar, two palate, and vomer: the exact extent of articu- lation witli each bone is shewn in the accompanying figures. Attachment of Muscles. The Temporal, External pterygoid, Internal pterygoid, Superior constrictor, Tensor palati, Laxator tympani. Levator palpebrte, Obliquus superior, Superior rectus, Internal rectus. Inferior rectus. External rectus. The Sphenoidal Spongy Bones. The Sphenoidal Spongy Bones are two thin, curved plates of bone, which exist as separate pieces until puberty, and occasionally are not joined to tlie sphenoid in the adult. They are situated at the anterior and inferior j^art of the body of the sphenoid, an aperture of variable size being left in their anterior wall, through which the sphenoidal sinuses open into the nasal fossas. They are irre- gular in form, and taper to a point behind, being broader and thinner in front. Their inner surface, which looks towards the cavity of the sinus, is concave; their outer surface convex. Each bone articulates in front with the ethmoid, externally with the palate; behind, its point is placed above the vomer, and is received between the root of the pterygoid process on the outer side, and the rostrum of the sphenoid on the inner. i The Ethmoid Bone. The Ethmoid (^^/io?, a sieve), is an exceedingly light spongy bone, of a cubical form, situated at the anterior part of the base of the cranium, between the two 38.—Ethmoid Bone. Outer Surface of Eight Lateral orbits, at the root of the nose, and contributing to form each of these cavities. It consists of three parts: a horizontal plate, which forms part of the base of the cranium; a per- pendicular plate, which forms part of the septum nasi; and two lateral masses of cells. The Horizontal or Cribri- form Plate (fig. 38) farms pai-t of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull, and is re- ceived into the ethmoid notch of the frontal bone between the two orbital plates. Pro- jecting upwards from the middle line of this plate, is a tl^ick smooth triangular pro- cess of bone, the crista galli, so called from its resemblance to a cock's comb. Its base joins the cribriform plate. Its posterior border, long, thin, and slightly curved, serves for the attachment of the falx cerebri. Its anterior border, short and thick, articulates with the frontal bone, and presents two small projecting aljp, which are received into corresponding depressions in the frontal, completing the foramen ccecum behind. Its sides are smooth, and sometimes bulging; in which case, it is found to enclose a small sinus. On each side of the crista galli, tlie cribriform plate is narrow, and deeply grooved, to support the bulb of the Mass (enlarged).