440 VEINS. clavicular articulation, aud the first piece of the stei'num, from which it separated by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the thymus gland its remains, and some loose areolar tissue. Behind, it lies across the roots of the three lai-ge arteries arising from the arch of the aorta. This vessel is joined by the left vertebral, left in- ferior thyroid, left internal mammary, and the left su- perior intercostal veins, and occasionally some thymic and pericardiac veins. There are no valves in the venfe innominatse. Peculiarities. Sometimes the innominate veins open separately into the right auri- cle; in such cases the right vein takes the ordinary course of the superior vena cava, but the left vein, after communi- cating by a small branch with the right one, passes in front of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, and terminates in the back of the right auricle. This occasional condition of the veins in the adult, is a regular one in the foetus at an early period, and the two ves- sels are persistent in birds and some mammalia. The subsequent changes which take place in these vessels are the following: The communi- cating branch between the two ti-unks enlarges and forms the future left innominate vein; the remaining part of the left trunk is obliterated as far as the heart, where it re- mains pervious, and forms the coronary sinus; a remnant of the obliterated vessel is seen in adult life as a fibrous band passing along the back of the left auricle and in front of the root ofthe left lung, called by Mr. Marshall, the vestigial fold of the pericardium. The internal mammary veiiis, two in number to each artery, follow the course of that vessel, and receive branches corres- ponding with those derived from it. The two veins unite into a single trunk, which terminates in the innominate vein. 241, —The Venae Cavse and Azygos Veins, with their Formative Branches. tericr Jitgttla r Supei-ia f Thyroia. -ExternalJujjii