THE NECK. 221 and outwards, to be inserted into a depression in front of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and into the corresponding part of the interarticular fibro- cartilage. This muscle, at its origin, appears to consist of two portions separated by a slight interval; hence the terms upper and lower head sometimes used in the description of the muscle. Kelatio7is. By its external surface, with the ramus of the lower jaw, the internal maxillary artery, which crosses it,* the tendon of the Temporal muscle, and the Masseter. By its internal surface, it rests against the upper part of the Internal pterygoid, the internal lateral ligament, the middle meningeal artery, and inferior maxillary nerve; by its upper border it is in relation with the temporal and masseteric branches of the infei'ior maxillary nerve. Nerves. These muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve. Actions. The Temporal, Masseter, and Internal pterygoid raise the lower jaw against the upper with great force. The superficial portion of the Masseter, and the Internal pterygoid, assist the External pterygoid in drawing the lower jaw forwards upon the upper, the jaw being drawn back again by the deep fibres of the Masseter, and posterior fibres of the Temporal. The External pterygoid muscles are the direct agents in the trituration of the food, drawing the lower jaw directly forwards, so as to make the lower teeth project beyond the upper. If the muscle of one side acts, the corresponding side of the jaw is drawn forwards, and the other condyle remaining fixed, the symphysis deviates to the opposite side. The alternation of these movements on the two sides produces trituration. ■ MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE NECK. The muscles of the Neck may be arranged into groups, corresponding with the region in which they are situated. These groups are nine in number:— 1. Superficial Region. 2. Depressors of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. 3. Elevators of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. 4. Muscles of the Tongue. 5. Muscles of the Pharynx. 6. Muscles of the Soft Palate. 7. Muscles of the Anterior Ver- tebral Region. 8. Muscles of the Lateral Ver- tebral Region. 9. Muscles of the Larynx. I. Superficial Region. Platysma myoides. Sterno-cleido-mastoid. Infra-hyoid Region. 2. Depressors of the Os Hyoides Larynx. Sterno-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid, Thyro-hyoid. Omo-hyoid. Supra-hyoid Region. 3. Elevators of the Os Hyoides Larynx. Digastric. Stylo-hyoid. * This is the usual relation; but muscle. Mylo-hyoid. Genio-hyoid. Lingual Region. 4. Muscles of the Tongue. and Genio-hyo-glossus. Hyo-glossus. Lingualis. Stylo-glossus. Palato-glossus. 5. Muscles of the Pharynx. Constrictor inferior. and Consti-ictor medius. Constrictor superior. Stylo-pharyngeus. Palato-pharyngeus. in many cases the artery will be found below the