AUDITORY CANAL. 603 The arteries of the pinna are, the posterior auricular, from the external carotid; the anterior auricular, from the temporal; and an auricular branch from the occi- pital artery. The veins accompany the corresponding arteries. The nerves are, the auricularis magnus, from the cervical plexus; the posterior auricular, from the facial; the auricular branch of the pneumogastric; and the auriculo-teraporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The Auditory Canal (fig. 313), {meatus auditorius externus), extends from the bottom of the concha to the membrana tympani. It is about an inch and a quarter in length, its direction is obliquely forwards and inwards, and it is slightly 313.—A Front View of the Organ of Hearing. Right Side. curved upon itself, so as to be higher in the middle than at either e:xtremity. It forms an oval cylindrical canal, narrowest at the middle, somewhat flattened from before backwards, the greatest diameter being in the vertical direction at the external orifice; but, in the transverse direction, at the tympanic end. The mem- brana tympani, which occupies the termination of the meatus, is obliquely directed, in consequence of the floor of the canal being longer than the roof, and the anterior wall longer than the posterior. The auditory canal is formed partly by cartilage and membrane, and partly by bone. The cartilaginous portion is about half an inch in length, being rather less than half the canal; it is formed by the cartilage of the concha and tragus, prolonged inwards to the circumference of the auditory process, to which it is firmly attached. This cartilage is deficient at its upper and back part, its place being supplied by fibrous membrane. This part of the canal is rendered extremely moveable, by two or three deep fissures {incisurce Santorini), which extend through the car- tilage in a vertical direction. The osseous portion is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and narrower than the cartilaginous portion. It is directed inwards and a little forwards, forming a slight curve in its course, the convexity of which is upwards and backwards. Its inner end,^Avhich communicates with the cavity of the tympanum, is smaller than the outer, and sloped, the anterior wall projecting beyond the posterior about two lines; it is marked, except at its upper part, by a narrow groove for the insertion of the membrana tympani. Its outer end is dilated, and rough, in the greater part of its circumference, for the attachment of the cartilage of the pinna. Its vertical transverse section is oval, the greatest diameter being from above downwards. The front and lower parts of this canal are formed by a curved plate of bone, which, in the fcetus, exists as a separate ring (tympanic bone), incomplete at its upper part.