258 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. varies much in its attachment, not only in diffei-ent bodies, but on opposite sides of the same body. Relations. In front with the sternum, ensiform cartilage, costal cartilages, Internal intercostal muscles, and internal mammary vessels. Behind, with the pleura, pericardium, and anterior mediastinum. The Levatores Costarum, twelve in number on each side, are small tendinous and fleshy bundles, which arise from the extremities of the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, and passing obliquely downwards and outwards, are inserted into the upper rough surface of the rib below them, between the tubercle and the angle. That for the first rib arises from the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and that for the last from the eleventh dorsal. The Inferior levatores divide into two fasciculi, one of which is inserted as above described; the other fasciculus passes down to the second rib below its origin; thus, each of the lower ribs receives fibres from the transverse processes of two vertebrse. Nerves. The muscles of this group are supplied by the intercostal nerves. Actions. The Intercostals are the chief agents in the movement of the ribs in ordinary respiration. The External intercostals raise the ribs, especially their fore part, and so increase the capacity of the chest from before backwards; at the same time they evert their lower borders, and so enlarge the thoracic cavity transversely. The Internal intercostals, at the side of the thorax, depress the ribs, and invert their lower borders, and so diminish the thoracic cavity; but at the fore part of the chest these muscles assist the External intercostals in raising the cartilages. The Levatores Costarum assist the External intercostals in raising the ribs. The Triangularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages; it is therefore an expiratory muscle. Diaphragmatic Region. Diaphragm. The Diaphragm (Aid(j)payfj,a, a partition-wall) (fig. 167) is a thin musculo- fibrous septum, placed obliquely at the junction of the upper with the lower two thirds of the trunk, and separating the thorax from the abdomen, forming the floor of the former cavity and the roof of the latter. It is elliptical, its longest diameter being fi-om side to side, somewhat fan-shaped, the broad elliptical portion being horizontal, the narrow part, which represents the handle of the fan, vertical, and joined at right angles to the former. It is from this circumstance that some anatomists describe it as consisting of two portions, the upper or great muscle of the Diaphragm, and the lower or lesser muscle. It arises from the whole of the internal circumference of the thorax, being attached, in front, by fleshy fibres to the ensiform cartilage; on either side, to the inner surface of the cartilages and bony portions of the six or seven inferior ribs, interdigitating with the Trans- versalis; and behind, to two aponeurotic arches, named the ligamentum arcuatum externum and internum, and to the lumbar vertebrte. The fibres from these sources vary in length; those arising from the ensiform appendix are very short and occasionally aponeurotic; those from the ligamenta arcuata, and more especially those from the ribs at the side of the chest, are longer, describe well-marked curves as they ascend, and finally converge to be inserted into the circumference of the central tendon. Between the sides of the muscular slip from the ensiform appendix and the cartilages of the adjoining ribs, the fibres of the Diaphragm are deficient, the interval being filled by areolar tissue, covered on the thoracic side by the pleuras; on the abdominal, by the peritoneum. This is, consequently,,a weak point, and a portion of the contents of the abdomen may protrude into the chest, forming phrenic or diaphragmatic hernia, or a collection of pus in the mediastinum may descend through it, so as to point_at the epigastrium. The ligamentum arcuatum internum is a tendinous arch, thrown across the upper part of the Psoas magnus muscle, on each side of the spine. It is connected, by one end, to the outer side of the body of the first, and occasionally the second lumbar vertebra, being continuous with the outer side of the tendon of the