OSTEOLOGY. 154 faces of the bones are not in direct contact, being separated by a layer of mem- brane continuous externally with the pericranium, internally with the dura mater. The sutura dentata {dens, a tooth) is so called from the tooth-like form of the projecting articular processes, as in the suture between the parietal bones. In the sutura serrata (serra, a saw), the edges of the two bones forming the arti- culation are serrated like the teeth of a fine saw, as between the two portions of the frontal bone. In the sutura limbosa [limbus, a selvage), besides the den- tated processes, there is a certain degree of bevelling of the articular surfaces, so that the bones overlap one another, as in the suture between the parietal and frontal bones. When the articulation is formed by roughened surfaces placed in apposition with one another, it is termed the false suture, sutura notha, of which there are two kinds: the sutura squamosa {squama, a scale), formed by the over- lapping of two contiguous bones by broad bevelled margins, as in the temporo- parietal (squamous) sutui-e; and the sutura harmonia {apfjLOvia, a joining together,) where there is simple apposition of two contiguous rough bony surfaces, as in the articulation between the two superior maxillary bones, or of the horizontal plates of the palate. Schindylesis {a-)(^ivSv\r]at<;, a fissure) is that form of articulation in which a thin plate of bone is received into a cleft or fissure formed by the separation of two laminas of another, as in the articulation of the rostrum of the sphenoid, and perpendicular plate of the ethmoid with the vomer, or in the reception of the latter in the fissure between the superior maxillary and palate bones. Gomphosis {jofMcpoi;, a nail) is an articulation formed by the insertion of a conical process into a socket, as a nail is driven into a board; this is not illustrated by any articulations between bones, properly so called, but is seen in the articu- lation of the teeth with the alveoli of the maxillary bones. 2. Amphiarthrosis. Mixed Articulations. Amphiarthrosis [afi^l, ^on all sides,' apOpov, ^ a joint,') or Mixed Articulation. In this form of articulation, the contiguous osseous surfaces are connected together by broad flattened discs of fibi-o-cartilage, which adhere to the ends of both bones, as in the articulation between the bodies of the vertebrse, and first two pieces of the sternum; or the articulating surfaces are covered with fibro-cartilage, partially lined by synovial membrane, and connected together by external ligaments, as in the sacro-iliac and pubic symphyses; both these forms being capable of limited motion in every direction. The former resemble the synarthrodial joints in the continuity of their surfaces, and absence of synovial sac; the latter, the diarthro- dial. These joints occasionally become obliterated in old age: this is frequently the case in the pubic articulation, and occasionally in the intervertebral and sacro-iliac. 3. DiARTHRosis. Moveable Articulations. Diarthrosis {Bia, ' through,' apOpov, ' a joint'). This form of articulation includes the greater number of the joints in the body, mobility being their dis- tinguishing character. They are formed by the approximation of two contiguous bony surfaces, covered with cartilage, connected by ligaments, and lined by synovial membrane. The varieties of joints in this class, have been determined by the kind of motion permitted in each; they are four in number: Arthrodia, Enarthrosis, Ginglymus, Diarthrosis rotatorius. Arthrodia is that form of joint which admits of a gliding movement; it is formed by the approximation of plane surfaces, or one slightly concave, the other slightly convex; the amount of motion between them being limited by the liga- ments, or osseous processes, surrounding the articulation; as in the articular pro- cesses of the vertebra, temporo-maxillary, sterno- and acromio-clavicular, inferior radio-ulnar, carpal, carpo-metacarpal, superior tibio-fibular, tarsal, and tarso-meta- tarsal articulations. Enarthrosis is that form of joint which is capable of motion in all directions. It is formed by the reception of a globular head into a deep cup-like cavity (hence