329 THE AORTA. long axis of the mesh runniug parallel with the long axis of the nerve or fibre. Sometimes, the capillaries have a looped arrangement, a single vessel projecting from the common network, and returning after forming one or more loops, as in the papillaj of the tongue and skin. The number of the capillaries, and the size of the meshes, detei'mines the degree of vascularity of a part. The closest network, and the smallest interspaces, are found in the lungs and in the choroid coat of the ey&. In the liver and lung, the interspaces are smaller than the capillary vessels themselves. In the kidney, in the conjunctiva, and in the cutis, the interspaces are from three to four times as large as the capillaries which form them; and in the brain from eight to ten times as large as the capillaries, in their long diameter, and from four to six times as large in their transverse diameter. In the cellular coat of the arteries, the width of the meshes is ten times that of the capillary vessels. As a general rule, the more active the function of an organ is, the closer is its capillary net, and the larger its supply of blood, the network being very narrow in all growing parts, in the glands, and in the mucous membranes; wider in bones and ligaments, which are comparatively inactive; and nearly altogether absent in tendons and cartilages, in which very little organic change occurs after their formation. Structure. The walls of the capillaries consist of a fine, transparent, homoge- neous membrane, in which are embedded, at intervals, minute oval corpuscles, probably the remains of the nuclei of the cells from which the vessel was originally formed. The largest capillaries have a trace of an epithelial lining, and a few filaments circularly dispersed. In the description of the arteries, we shall first consider the efferent trunk of the systemic circulation, the aorta, and its branches; and then the efferent trunk of the pulmonic circulation, the pulmonary artery. The Aorta. The aorta (aoprr}; arteria magna) is the main trunk of a series of vessels, which, arising from the heart, convey the red oxygenated blood to every part of the body for its nutrition. This vessel commences at the upper part of the left ventricle, and, after ascending for a short distance, arches backwards to the left side, over the root of the left lung, descends within the thorax on the left side of the vertebral column, passes through the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, and entering the abdominal cavity, terminates, considerably diminished in size, oppo- site the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the right and left common iliac arteries. Hence its subdivision into the arch of the aorta, the thoracic aorta and the abdominal aorta, from the direction or position of its parts. Arch of the Aorta. Dissection. In order to examine the arch of the aorta, open the thorax, by dividing the cartilages of the ribs on each side of the stei-uum, raising this bone from below upwards, and then sawing through the sternum on a level with its articulation with the clavicle. By this means, the relations of the large vessels to the upper border of the sternum and root of the neck are kept in view. The arch of the aorta extends from the origin of the vessel at the upper part of the left ventricle,^to the lower border of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. At its commencement, it ascends behind the sternum, obliquely upwards and forwards towards the right side, and opposite the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side, passes transversely from right to left, and from before backwards, to the left side of the second dorsal vertebra; it then descends upon the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra, at the lower border of which it takes the name of thoracic aorta. The arch of the aorta describes a curve, the convexity of which is directed upwards and to the right side; and it is subdivided, at the points where it changes its direction, so as to be described in three portions, the ascending, transverse and descending portions of the arch of j the aorta.