ARCH OF AORTA. Relations. The ascending part of the arch is covered at its commencement by the trunk of the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendage, and, higher up, is separated from the sternum by the pericardium, some loose areolar tissue, and tlie remains of the thymus gland; behind, it rests upon the right pulmonary vessels and root of the right lung. On the right side, it is in relation v?ith the superior vena cava and right auricle; on the left side, with the pulmonary artery. Plan of the Relations of the ascending part of the Arch. In front. Pulmonary artery. Eight auricular appendage. Pericardium. Eemains of thymus gland. Right side. Superior cava. Right auricle. . Left side. Pulmonary artery. Behind. Eight pulmonary vessels. Eoot of right lung. Transverse Part of the Arch. The second or transverse portion of the arch commences at the upper border of the second costo-sterrial articulation of the right side in front, and passes from right to left, and from before backvrards, to the left side of the second dorsal vertebra behind. Its upper border is usually about an inch below the upper margin of the sternum. Relations. Its anterior surface is covered by the left pleura and lung, and crossed towards the left side by the left pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, and cardiac branches of the sympathetic. Its posterior surface lies on the trachea, just above its bifurcation, on the great cardiac plexus, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Its upper border is in relation with the left innominate vein; and from its upper part are given off the innominate, left carotid, and left subclavian arteries. Its lower border, is in relation with the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and the remains of the ductus arteriosus, which is connected with. the left division of that vessel; the left recurrent laryngeal nerve winds round it from before backwards, whilst the left bronchus passes below it. Plan of the Relations of the Transverse Part of the Arch. Above. Left innominate vein. Arteria innominata. Left carotid. Left subclavian. hi front. Left pleura and lung. Left pneumogastric nerve. Left phrenic nerve. Cardiac nerves. Behind. Trachea. Cardiac plexus. Q'lsophagus. Thoracic duct. Left recurrent nerve. Below. Bifurcation of pulmonary artery. Eemains of ductus arteriosus. Left recurrent nerve. Left bronchus.