ANTERIOR HUMERAL REGION. 271 septum, thicker than the preceding, extends from the lower part of the posterior lip of the bicipital groove below the Teres major, along the internal condyloid ridge to the inner condyle; it is blended with the tendon of the Coraco-brachialis, and affords attachment to the Triceps behind, and the Brachialis anticus in front. It is perforated by the ulnar nerve, and the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. At the elbow, the deep fascia takes attachment to all the prominent points round the joint, and is continuous with the fascia of the forearm. On the removal of this fascia, the muscles of the anterior humeral region are exposed. The Coraco-Brachialis, the smallest of the three muscles in this region, is situated at the^iipper^ and_Jnner. .part of the arm. It arises by fleshy fibres from the apex of the coracoid process, in common with the short head of the Biceps, and from the intermuscular septum between the two muscles; the fibres pass downwai'ds, backwards, and a little outwards, to be inserted by means of a flat tendon into a rough ridge at the middle of the inner side of the shaft of the humerus. It is pei'forated by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The inner border of the muscle forms a guide to the position of the vessel, in tying the brachial artery in the upper part of its course. Relatiojis. By its anterior surface, with the Deltoid and Pectoralis major above, and at its insertion with the brachial vessels and median nerve which cross it. By its posterior surface, with the tendons of the Subscapularis, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, the short head of the Triceps, the humerus, and the anterior circumflex vessels. By its inner border, with the brachial artery, and the median and musculo-cutaneous nerves. By its outer border, with the short head of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus. The Biceps is a long fusiform muscle, occupying the whole of the anterior surface of the arm, and divided above into two portions or heads, from which circumstance it has received its name. The short head arises by a thick flattened tendon from the apex of the coracoid process, in common with the Coraco- brachialis. The._long he^d arises from the upper margin of the glenoid cavity, by a long rounded tendon, which is continuous with the glenoid ligament. This tendon arches over the head of the humerus, being enclosed in a special sheath of the synovial membrane of the shoulder joint; it then pierces the capsular ligament at its attachment to the humerus, and descends in the bicipital groove, in which it is retained by a fibrous prolongation from the tendon of the Pectoralis major. The fibres from this tendon form a rounded belly, and, about the middle of the arm, join with the portion of the muscle derived from the short head. The belly of the muscle, narrow and somewhat flattened, terminates above the elbow in a flattened tendon, which is inserted into the back part of the tuberosity of the radius, a synovial bursa being interposed between the tendon and the front of the tuberosity. The tendon of the muscle is thin and broad; as it approaches the radius it becomes narrow and twisted upon itself, being applied by a flat surface to the back part of the tuberosity: opposite the bend of the elbow the tendon gives off, from its inner side, a broad aponeurosis, which passes obliquely down- wards and inwards across the brachial artery, and is continuous witli the fascia of the forearm. The inner border of this muscle forms a guide to the position of the vessel, in tying the brachial artery in the middle of the arm.* Relations. Its anterior surface is overlapped above by the Pectoralis major and Deltoid; in the rest of its extent it is covei-ed by the superficial and deep fasciaa and the integument. Its posterior surface rests on the shoulder joint and humerus, from which it is separated by the Subscapularis, Teres major, Latissimus doj-si, Brachialis anticus, and the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its inner border is in * A third head to the Biceps is occasionally found (Theile says as often as once in eight or nine subjects), arising at the upper and inner part of the Brachialis anticus, with the fibres of which it is continuous, and inserted into the bicipital fascia and inner side of the tendon of the Biceps. In most cases, this additional slip passes behind the brachial artery in its course down the arm. Occasionally the third head consists of two slips, which pass down, one in front, the other behind the artery, concealing the vessel in the lower half of the arm.