SPINAL CORD. 475 Structure of the Cord. If a transverse section of the spinal cord be made, it will be seen to consist of white and grey nervous substance. The white matter is situated externally, and constitutes the gi'eater part. The grey substance occupies the centre, and is so ai'rauged as to present on the surface of the section two crescentic masses placed one in each lateral half of the cord, united together by a transverse band of grey matter, the grey commissure. Each cresentic mass has an anterior and posterior horn. The posterior horn is long and narrow, and approaches the surface of the posterior lateral fissure, near which it presents a slight enlargement. The anterior horn is short and thick, and does not quite reach the surface, but extends towards the point of attachment of the anterior roots of the nerves. Its margin presents a dentate or stellate appearance. Owing to the projections towards the surface of the anterior and posterior horns of the grey matter, each half of the cord is divided, more or less completely, into three columns, anterior, middle, and posterior; the anterior and middle being joined to form the antero-lateral column, as the anterior horn does not quite reach the surface. The grey commissure, which connects the two crescentic masses of grey rnatter, is separated from the bottom of the anterior median fissure by the anterior white commissure; and from the bottom of the posterior fissure by the posterior white commissure. The grey commissure consists of a transverse band of grey matter, and of white fibres, derived from the opposite half of the cord and the posterior roots of the nerves. The anterior commissure is formed of fibres, partly from the anterior column, and partly from the fibrils of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, which decussate as they pass across 256.—Transverse Sections of from one to the other side. the Cord. The mode of arrangement of the grey matter, and its amount in proportion to the white, vary in different parts of the cord. Thus, the posterior horns are long and narrow, in the cervical region; short and narrower, in the dorsal; short, but wider, in the Oj,po,LU MUdle of Cer^U:al rtg^ lumbar region. In the cervical region, the crescentic portions are small, the white matter more abundant than in any other region of the cord. In the dorsal region, the grey matter is least developed, the white matter being also small in quantity. In the lumbar re- gion, the grey matter is more abundant than in Opposite Middle of X) or sal req^t • p ,i i rr\ t ,t -i •' any other region 01 the cord, iowards the lower eud of the cord the white matter gradually ceases. The crescentic portions of the grey matter soon blend into a single mass, which forms the only constituent of the extreme point of the cord. Opfotitt Xunihar regtatv The wliite substance of the cord consists of transverse, oblique, and longitudinal fibres, with blood-vessels and connective tissue. The transverse fibres jiroceed from the grey substance, and form with each other a kind of plexus between the bundles of longitudinal fibres, with which many are continuous ; while others reach the surface of the cord through fissures containing connective tissue. Within the grey substance they are continuous with the roots of the nerves, with the pro- cesses of the nerve cells, and with the anterior and jiosterior commissures. The oblique fibres proceed from the grey substance both upwards and downwards : they form the deep strata of the white columns, and, after running a variable length, become superficial. The longitudinalJibres are more superficial, run nearly parallel with each other, and form the greater portion of the white columns. The grey substance of the cord consists of, i. Nerve-fibres of variable, but smaller average diameter than those of the columns, a. Nerve-cells of virious shapes and sizes, with from two to eight processes. 3. Blood-vessels and connective tissue. Each lateral half of the grey substance is divided into an anterior and posterior horn, and the tractus intermedio-lateralis, or lateral part of the grey substance between the anterior and posterior corniia. The posterior horn consists of two parts, the caput cornu, or expanded extremity of