INTERNAL ILIAC. 401 serves to convey blood to the bladder, under the name of the superior vesical Peculiarities, as regards length. In two-thirds of a large number of cases, the length of the internal iliac varied between an inch and an inch and a-half; in the remaining third, it was more frequently longer than shorter, the maximum length being three inches, the minimum, half an inch. The lengths of the common and internal iliac arteries bear an inverse proportion to each other, the internal iliac artery being long when the common iliac is short, and vice versd. As regards its -place of division. The place of division of the internal iliac varies between the upper margin of the sacrum, and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. The arteries of the two sides in a series of cases often diiiered in length, but neither seemed constantly to exceed the other. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the internal iliac artery may be required in cases of aneurism or haemorrhage affecting one of its branches. The vessel may be secured by making an incision through the abdominal parietes in the iliac region, in a direction and to an extent similar to that for securing the commou iliac; the trans- versalis fascia having been cautiously divided, and the peritoneum jjushed inwards fiom the iliac fossa towards the pelvis, the finger may feel the pulsation of the external iliac at the bottom of the wound ; and, by tracing this vessel upwards, the internal iliac is arrived at, opposite the sacro-iliac articulation. It should be remembered that the vein lies behind, and on the right side, a little external to the artery, and in close contact with it; the ureter and peritoneum, which lie in front, must also be avoided. The degree of facdity in apply- ing a ligature to this vessel, will mainly depend upon its length. It has been seen that, in the great majority of the cases examined, the artery was short, varying from an inch to an inch and a-half ; in these cases, the artery is deeply seated in the pelvis ; when, on the , contrary, the vessel is longer, it is found partly above that cavity. If the artery is very short, as occasionally happens, it would be preferable to apply a ligature to the common iliac, or upon the external and internal iliacs at their origin. Collateral Circulation. In Mr. Owen's dissection of a casein which the internal iliac artery had been tied by Stevens ten years before death, for aneurism of the sciatic artery, the internal iliac was found impervious for about an inch above the point where the ligature had been applied; but the obliteration did not extend to the origin of the external ihac, as the ilio-lumbar artery arose just above this point. Below the point of obliteration, the artery resumed its natural diameter, and continued so for half an inch; the obturator, lateral sacral, and gluteal, arising in succession from the latter portion. The obturator artery was entirely obliterated. The lateral sacral artery was as large as a crow's quill, and had a very free anastomosis with the artery of the opposite side, and with the middle sacral artery. The sciatic artery was entirely obliterated as far as its point of connection with the aneurismal tumour; but, on the distal side of the sac, it was continued down along the back of the thigh nearly as large in size as the femoral, being pervious about an inch below the sac by receiving an anastomosing vessel from the superior profunda.* In addition to the above, the circulation in the parts supplied by the internal iliac would be carried on by the anastomoses of the uterine and ovai-ian arteries ; of the opposite vesical arteries ; of the hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac, with those from the inferior mesenteric; of the obturator artery, by means of its pubic branch, with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the epigastric and internal circumflex; by the anastomoses of the circumflex, and perforating branches of the femoral, with the sciatic ; of the gluteal, with the posterior branches of the sacral arteries; of the ilio-lumbar, with the last lumbar ; of the lateral sacral, with the middle sacral; and by the anastomoses of the circumflex iliac, with the ilio-lumbar and gluteal. artery. Branches of the Internal Iliac. From the Anterior Trimk. From the Posterior Trunk. Superior vesical. Middle vesical. Inferior vesical. Middle haemorrhoidal. Obturator. Internal pudic. Sciatic. Gluteal. Ilio-lumbar. Lateral sacral. * Medico-Chirurgical TraHS., vol.xvi. D D