METACARPO-PHALANGEAL. articulations. Its anterior surface presents four grooves for the passage of the flexor tendons. Its posterior surface blends with the ligaments of the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation. X. Metacarpo-phalangeal Articulations (fig. 137). These articulations are of the ginglymoid kind, formed by the reception of the rounded head of the metacarpal bone, into a superficial cavity in the extremity of the first phalanx. They are connected by the following ligaments : Anterior. Two Lateral. The Anterior Ligaments are thick, dense, and fibro-cartilaginous in texture. . , . p,, T^, 1 Each is placed on the palmar 1-57.—Articulatious of the Phalanges. „ x- j-i • • ^ • .-i, ^' suriace 01 the joint, m the ^ interval between the lateral I ligaments, to which they are connected; they are loosely united to the metacarpal bone, but very firmly to the base of the first phalanges. Their Metacarjio-pJiola-Miecd palmar surface is intimately LATERAL LIGAMENT A.vtie''i blended with the transverse ligament, forming a groove for the passage of the flexor tendons, the sheath surround- ing which is connected to each side of the groove. By their internal surface, they form part of the articular surface for the head of the metacarpal bone, and are lined by a synovial membrane. Tlh.eLateral Ligaments are strong rounded cords, placed one on each side of the joint, each being attached by one P],aln,t/jeal extremity to the tubercle on Artbci-f the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and by the other to the contiguous ex- N tremity of the phalanx. The posterior ligament is supplied by the extensor ten- don placed over the back of each joint. Actions. The movements which occur in these joints are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction ; the lateral move- ments are very limited. XI. Articulations of the Phalanges. These are ginglymoid joints, connected by the following ligaments: Anterior. Two Lateral. The arrangement of these ligaments is similar to thQse in the metacarpo-pha- langeal articulations ; the extensor tendon supplies the place of a posterior ligament. ^