727 OVUM. which is probably formed from plasma exuded from its walls. Dr. Lee believes that this yellow matter is deposited outside both the membranes of the follicle; Montgomery regards it as placed between the layers; while Kolliker considers it as a thickening of the inner layer of the outer coat of the follicle. The exudation is at first of a dark brown or bi'ownish-red colour, but it soon becomes paler, and its consistence more dense. For every follicle in the ovary from which an ovum is discharged, a corpus luteum will be found. But the characters it exhibits, and the changes produced in it, will be determined by the circumstance of the ovum being impregnated or not. Although there is little doubt that coi'pora lutea exist in the ovaries after the escape of ova, independent of coitus, or impregnation, it appears that the corpus luteum of pregnancy (true corpus luteum) possesses characters by which it may be distinguished from one formed in a follicle, from which an ovum has been dis- charged without subsequent impregnation (false corpus luteum). The true corpora lutea are of large size, often as large as a mulberry; of a rounded form, and project from the surface of the ovary, the summit of the pro- jection presenting a triangular depression or cicatrix, where the peritoneum appears to have been torn. They contain a small cavity in their centre during the early period of their formation, which becomes contracted, and exhibits a stellate cicatrix during the latter stages of pregnancy. Their vascularity, lobulated or puckered appearance, firm consistence, and yellow colour, are also characteristic marks of true corpora lutea. False corpora lutea are of small size, do not project from the surface of the ovary, are angular in form, seldom present any cicatrix, contain no cavity in their centre; the material composing them is not lobulated, its consistence is usually soft, often resembling coagulated blood; the yellow matter exists in the form of a very thin layer, or, more commonly, is entirely wanting. False corpora lutea most frequently result from the effusion of serum or blood into the cavities of the Graafian vesicles, which subsequently undergo various changes, and is ultimately removed. Dr. Lee states, that in the false corpora lutea the yellow substance is contained within, or attached to, the inner surface of the Graafian vesicle, and does not surround it, as is the case in the true corpora lutea. In the foetus, the ovaries are situated, like the testes, in the lumbar region, near the kidneys. They may be distinguished from those bodies at an early period by their elongated and flattened form, and by their position, which is at first oblique, and then nearly transverse. They gradually descend into the pelvis. The Ligament of the Ovary is a rounded cord, which extends from each superior angle of the uterus to the inner extremity of the ovary; it consists of fibrous tissue, and a few muscular fibres derived from the uterus. The Round Ligaments are two rounded cords, betAveen four and five inches in length, situated between the layers of the broad ligament, in front of and below the Fallopian tube. Commencing on each side at the superior angle of the uterus, each ligament passes forwards and outwards through the internal abdominal ring, along the inguinal canal to the labia majora, in which it becomes lost. Each liga- ment consists of areolar tissue, vessels, and nerves, besides a dense bundle of fibrous tissue, and muscular fibres prolonged from the uterus, enclosed in a duplicature of peritoneum, which, in the foetus, is prolonged in the form of a tubular process for a short distance into the inguinal canal; this process is called the canal of Nuck, It is generally obliterated in the adult, but sometimes remains pervious even in advanced life. It is analogous to the peritoneal pouch which accompanies the descent of the testis. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes are the ovarian from the aorta. They anastomose with the termination of the uterine arteries, and enter the attached border of the ovary. The veins follow the course of the arteries; they form a plexus near the ovary, the pampiniform plexus. The nerves are derived from the spermatic plexus, the Fallopian tube receiving a branch from one of the uterine nerves.