550 SPINAL NERVES. * the front of the chest, by forming the first anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. The first intercostal nerve gives ofi" no lateral cutaneous branch. The last dorsal is larger than the other dorsal nerves. Its anterior branch runs along *the lower border of the last rib in front of the Quadratus lumborum, perforates the aponeurosis of the Transversalis, and passes forwards between it and the Internal oblique, to be distributed in the same manner as the preceding nerves. It communicates with the ilio-hypogastric branch of the lumbar plexus, and is occasionally connected with the first lumbar nerve by a slender branch, the dorsi-lumbar nerve, which descends in the substance of the Quadratus lumborum. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal is remarkable for its large size; it perforates the Internal and External oblique muscles, passes downwards over the crest of the ilium, and is distributed to the integument of the front of the hip, some of its filaments extending as low down as the trochanter major. LUMBAK NkRVES. The lumbar nerves are five in number on each side; the first appears between the first and second lumbar vertebras, and the last between the last lumbar and the base of the sacrum. The roots of the lumbar nerves are the largest, and their filaments the most numerous, of all the spinal nerves, and they are closely aggregated together upon the lower end of the cord. The anterior roots are the smaller: but there is not the same disproportion between them and the posterior roots as in the cervical nerves. The roots of these nerves have a vertical direction, and are of consider- able length, more especially the lower ones, since the spinal cord does not extend beyond the first lumbar vertebra. The roots become joined in the intervertebral foramina, and, at their exit, divide into two branches, anterior and posterior. 'The posterior branches of the lumbar nerves diminish in size from above down- wards; they pass backwards between the transverse processes, and divide into external and internal branches. The external branches supply the Erector spinjE and Intertransverse muscles. From the three upper branches, cutaneous nerves are derived, which pierce the Sacro-luinbalis and Latissimus dorsi muscles, and descend over the back part of the crest of the ilium, to be distributed to the integument%of the gluteal region, some of the filaments passing as far as the trochanter major. The internal branches, the smaller, pass inwards close to the articular processes of the vertebra, and supply the Multifidus spinas and Interspinales muscles. , The anterior branches of the lumbar nerves increase in. size from above down- wards. At their origin, they communicate with the lumbar ganglia of the sym- patlietic by long slender filaments, which accompany the lumbar arteries round the sides of the bodies of the vertebra?, beneath the Psoas muscle. The nerves pass obliquely outwards behind the Psoas magnus, or between its fasciculi, distributing filaments to it and the Quadratus lumborum. The anterior branches of the four upper nerves are connected togethei in this situation by anastomotic loops, and form the lumbar ■plexus, TIiV anterior branch of the fifth lumbar, joined with a branch from the fourth, descends across the base of the sacrum to join the anterior branch of the first sacral nerve, and assist in the formation of the sacral plexus. The cord resulting from the union of these two nerves, is called the lumbosacral nerve. LuMBAK Plexus. The lumbar plexus is formed by the loops of communication between the anterior branches of the four upper lumbar nerves. The plexus is narrow above, and occasionally connected with the last dorsal by a slender branch, the dorsi- lumhixr nerve; it is broad below, where it is joined to the sacral plexus by the lumbo-saci-al cord. It is situated in the substance of the Psoas muscle near its posterior part, in front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra;.