174 ARTICULATIONS. It is in relation, anteriorly, with the Coccygeus muscle ; posteriorly, it is covered by the posterior ligament, and ci'ossed by the pudic vessels and nerve. Its superior border forms the lower boundary of the great sacro-sciatic foramen ; its inferior border, part of the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. These two ligaments convert the sacro-sciatic notches into foramina. The superior or great sacro-sciatic foramen is bounded, in front and above, by the posterior border of the os innomiuatum ; behind, by the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment ; and below, by the lesser ligament. It is partially filled up, in the recent state, by the Pyriformis muscle. Above this muscle, the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve emerge from the pelvis ; and below it, the ischiatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the Obturator iuternus. The inferior or lesser sacro-sciatic foramen is bounded, in front, by the tuber ischii ; above, by the spine and lesser ligament ; behind, by the greater ligament. It transmits the tendon of the Obturator internus muscle, its nerve, and the pudic vessels and nerve. 3. Articulation of the Sacrum and Coccyx. This articulation is an amphiarthrodial joint, formed between the oval surface on the summit of the sacrum, and the base of the coccyx. It is analogous to the joints between the bodies of the vertebrae, and is connected by similar ligaments. They are the— Anterior Sacro-Coccygeal. Posterior Sacro-Coccygeal. Inter-articular Fibro-Cartilage. The Anterior Sacro- Coccygeal Ligament consists of a few irregular fibres, which descend from the anterior surface of the sacrum to the front of the coccyx, becoming blended with the periosteum. The Posterior Sacro-Coccygeal Ligament is a flat band of ligamentous fibres, of a 23early tint, which arises from the margin of the lower orifice of the sacral canal, and descends to be inserted into the posterior surface of the coccyx. This ligament completes the lower and back part of the sacral canal. Its superficial fibres are much longer than the deep-seated; the latter extend from the apex of the sacrum to the upper cornua of the coccyx. This ligament is in relation in front with the arachnoid membrane of the sacral canal, a portion of the sacrum, and almost the whole of the posterior surface of the coccyx; behind, with the Gluteus maximus. An Inter-articular Fibro-Cartilage is interposed between the contiguous sur- faces of the sacrum and coccyx ; it differs from that interposed between the bodies of the vertebra, in being thinner, and its central part more firm in texture. It is somewhat thicker in front and behind, than at the sides. Occasionally a synovial membrane is found where the coccyx is freely moveable, which is more especially the case during pregnancy. The diflferent segments of the coccyx are connected together by an extension downwards of the anterior and posterior sacro-coccygeal ligaments, a thin annular disc of fibro-cartilage being interposed between each of the bones. In the adult male, all the pieces become ossified ; but in the female, this does not commonly occur until a later period of life. The separate segments of the coccyx are first united, and at a more advanced age the joint between the sacrum and the coccyx is obliterated. Actions. The movements which take place between the sacrum and coccyx, and between the different pieces of the latter bone, are slightly forwards and back- wards ; they are very limited. Their extent increases during pregnancy. 4. Articulation of the Pubes. The articulation between the pubic bones is an amphiarthrodial joint, formed