227 SUPRA-HYOID REGION. The tendon of this muscle, which varies much in its length and form in different subjects, is held in its position by a process of the deep cervical fascia, which includes it in a sheath, and is prolonged down to be attached to the cartilage of the first rib. It is by this means that the angular form of the muscle is maintained. This muscle subdivides each of the two large triangles at the side of the neck into two smaller triangles; the two posterior ones being the posterior superior or suboccipital, and the posterior inferior or subclavian; the two anterior, the anterior superior or superior carotid, and the anterior inferior or inferior carotid triangle. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Trapezius, Subclavius, the clavicle, the Sterno-mastoid, deep cervical fascia, Platysma, and integument. By its deep surface, with the Scaleni, brachial plexus, sheath of the common carotid artery, and internal jugular vein, the descendens noni nerve, Steruo-thyroid and Thyro-hyoid muscles. Nerves. The Thyro-hyoid is supplied by the hypo-glossal; the other muscles of this group by branches from the loop of communication between the descendens and commuuicans noni. Actions. These muscles depress the larynx and hyoid bone, after they have been drawn up with the pharynx in the act of deglutition. Tlie Omo-hyoid muscles not only depress the hyoid bone, but carry it backwards, and to one or the other side. They are also tensors of the cervical fascia. The Thyro-hyoid may act as an elevator of the thyroid cartilage, when the hyoid bone ascends, drawing upwards the thyroid cartilage behind the os hyoides. 3. Supka-Hyoid Region (figs. 153, 154). Elevators of the Os Hyoides—Depressors of the Lower Jaw. Digastric. Mylo-Hyoid. Stylo-Hyoid. Genio-Hyoid. Dissection. To dissect these muscles, a block should be placed beneath the back of the neck, and the head drawn backwards, and retained in that position. On the removal of the deep fascia, the muscles are at once exposed. The Digastric consists of two fleshy bellies united by an intermediate rounded tendon. It is a small muscle, situated below the side of the body of the lower jaw, and extending, in a curved form, from the side of the head to the symphysis of the jaw. The posterior belly, longer than the anterior, arises from the digastric groove on the inner side of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and passes downwards, forwards, and inwards. The anterior belly, being reflected upwards and forwards, is inserted into a depression on the inner side of the lower border of the jaw, close to the symphysis. The tendon of the muscle perforates the Stylo-hyoid, and is held in connection with the side of the body of the hyoid bone by an aponeurotic loop, lined by a synovial membrane. A broad aponeurotic r is given off from the tendon of the Digastric on each side, which i"s attached WlthQ body and great cornu of the hyoid bone: this is termed the supra-hyoid oneurosis. It forms a strong layer of fascia between the anterior portion of two muscles, and a flrm investment for the other muscles of the supra-hyoid region which lie beneath it. The Digastric muscle divides the anterior superior triangle of the neck into two smaller triangles; the upper, or submaxillary, being bounded, above, by the lower jaw and mastoid process; below, by the two bellies of the Digastric muscle: the lower, or superior carotid triangle, being bounded, above, by the posterior belly of the Digastric; behind, by the Sterno-mastoid; below, by the Omo-hyoid. Relations. By it's superficial surface, with the Platysma, Sterno- and Trachelo- mastoid, part of the Stylo-hyoid muscle, and the parotid and sub-maxillary glands. By its deep surface, the anterior belly lies on the Mylo-hyoid; the posterior belly on the Stylo-glossus, Stylo-pharyngeus, and Hyo-glossus muscles, the external Q 2