343 FACIAL. of the tongue, resting on the Lingnalis, and covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth; it lies on the outer side of the Genio-hyo-glossus, and is covered by the Hyo-glossus and Stylo-glossus, accompanied by the gustatory nerve. On arriving at the tip of the tongue, it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. These vessels in the mouth are placed one on each side of the frjEuum. Surgical Anatomy. The lingual artery may be divided near its origin in cases of cut throat, a complication that not unfrequently happens in this class of wounds, or severe hgemorrhage w^hich cannot be restrained by ordinary means, may ensue from a vFound, or deep ulcer, of the tongue. In the former case, the primary wound may be enlarged if necessary, and the bleeding vessel secured. In the latter case, it has been suggested that the lingual artery should be tied near its origin. Ligature of the lingual artery is also occasionally practised, as a palliative measure, iu cases of tumour of the tongue, in order to check the progress of the disease. The operation is a difficult one, on account of the depth of the artery, the number of important parts by which it is surrounded, the loose and yielding nature of the parts upon which it is supported, and its occasional irregularity of origin. An incision is to be made, about two and a half inches in length, running obliquely downwards and backwards, and having its centre opposite the point of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, which is the guide to the artery. The parts being gradually dissected, the hypoglossal nerve will first come into view, and then the artery must be carefully sought for among the loose tissue at the bottom of the wouxid, care being taken not to open the pharynx. Large veins, the internal jugular or some of its branches, may be met with, and pi-ove a source of embarrassment. Troublesome hseraorrhage may occur in the division of the frsenum in children, if the rauine artery, whicli lies on each side of it, is cut through. The student should remember that the opei'ation is always to be performed with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, and the mucous membrane only is to be divided by a very superficial cut, which cannot endanger any vessel. Any further liberation of the tongue, which may be necessai'y, can be effected by tearing. The Facial Artery (fig. 209), arises a little above the lingual, and ascends obliquely forv^^ards and upwards, beneath the body of the lower jaw, to the sub- maxillary gland, in which it is embedded; this may be called the cervical part of the artery. It then curves upwards over the body of the jaw at the anterior inferior angle of the Masseter muscle, ascends forwards and upwards across the cheek to the angle of the mouth, passes up along the side of the nose, and terminates at the inner canthus of the eye, under the name of the angular artery. This vessel, both in the neck, and on the face, is remarkably tortuous; in the former situation, to accommodate itself to the movements of the pharynx in deglutition; and in the hn,tter, to the movements of the jaw, and the lips and cheeks. Relations. In the neck, its origin is superficial, being covei'ed by the integument, Platysma, and fascia; it then passes beneath the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and the submaxillary gland. On the face, where passing over the body of the lower jaw, it is comparatively superficial, lying immediately beneath the Platysma. Iu this situation, its pulsation may be distinctly felt, and compression of the vessel effectually made against the bone. In its course over the face, it is covered by the integument, the fat of the cheek, and, near the angle of the mouth, by the Platysma and Zygomatic muscles. It rests on the Buccinator, the Levator anguli oris, and the Levator labii superioris alseque nasi. It is accompanied by the fiicial vein thi'oughout its entire course; the vein is not tortuous like the artery, and, on tlie face, is sepai-ated from that vessel by a considerable interv.al. The branches of the facial nerve cross the artery, and the infra-orbital nerve lies beneath it. Tlie branches of this vessel may be divided into two sets, those given off below the jaw (cervical); and those on the face (facial). Cervical Eranchcs. Facial Branches. Infei'ior or Ascending Palatine, Tonsillar. Submaxillary. Submental. Muscular. Inferior Labial. Inferior Coronary. Superior Coronary. Lateralis Nasi. Angular.