GENERAL ANATOMY OF BONE. 5 or spaces, termed, by Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan, Haversian spaces. These spaces are found at all periods of life, but especially in yonng and growing bones. They are characterised by an irregular or jagged outline, and are apparently produced by the absorption of parts of several Haversian systems, ■which have been, to a greater or less extent, removed in order to form them. These spaces may exist in various conditions : in some, the process of absorption is evidently going on; in others, the spaces are lined by newly-formed lamellte which fill up the peripheral portion of the space; in others, the lamellfe fill in the whole of the space, leaving a Haversian canal in the centre. It would thus appear, that portions of the Haversian systems are, from time to time, removed by absorption, and a new system of lamellre formed in place of those previously existing. Sometimes, these spaces may be seen filled in, at one part, by the de- position of lamellffi; while, at another part, they are extending themselves by absorption. We have already said, that the dark spots seen in and between the lamellae arranged in concentric circles around the Haversian canals, are the lacuncB. These are minute cavities existing in the osseous substance, having numerous fine tubes called canaliculi issuing from all parts of their circumference. In fresh bones, each lacuna contains a delicate cell, with pellucid contents, and a single nucleus; and from the cell numei'ous fine processes are given off, which fill the canaliculi. These are the bone cells, discovered by Virchow. The lacunee are oval flattened spaces, lying parallel to the direction of the lamella3. The canaliculi issuing from them are extremely minute, their diameter ranging from j47175-0 to TlToo'o inch. They communicate freely with the canaliculi of adjoining lacunas, some opening into the Haversian canals, or into the cancelli of the spongy substance, and some upon the free surface of the , bone. By this communication between the lacunae and canaliculi traversing the entire substance of the bone, the plasma of the blood is cai-ried into every part.* Vessels of Bone. The blood-vessels of bone are very numerous. Those of the compact tissue are derived from a close and dense network of vessels, i-amifying in a fibrous membrane termed the periosteum, which covers the surface of the bone in nearly every part. From this membrane, vessels pass through the minute orifices in the compact tissue, running through the canals which traverse its substance. The cancellous tissue is supplied in a similar way, but by a less numerous set of larger vessels, which, perforating the outer compact tissue, are distributed to the cavities of the spongy portion of the bone. In the long bones, numerous apertures may be seen at the ends near the articular surfaces, some of which give passage to the arteries referred to; but the greater number, and these are the largest of them, are for the veins of the cancellous tissue which run separately from the arteries. The medullary canal in the shafts of the long bones is supplied by one large artery (or sometimes more), which enters the bone at the nutritious foramen (situated, in most cases, near the centre of the shaft), and perforates obliquely the compact substance. This vessel, usually accompanied by one or two veins, sends branches upwards and downwards, to supply the medullary membrane, which lines the central cavity and the adjoining canals. The ramifications of this vessel anastomose with the arteries both of the cancellous and compact tissues. In most of the flat, and in many of the short spongy bones, one or more large apertures are observed, which transmit, to the centre of the bone, vessels corresponding to the medullary arteries and veins. The veins emerge from the long bones in three places (KoUiker), i. By a large vein which accompanies the nutrient artery; 2. by numerous large and small veins at the articular extremities; 3. by many small veins which arise in the compact substance. In the flat cranial bones, the veins are large, very numerous, and run * Virchow believes that the canaliculi are also occupied by animal fibre continuous •with the cell that fills the lacuna; and that they have no direct open communication with the Haversian canal before maceration. The whole account of the structure of bone in Lect. iv. of his Cellular Pathology, translated by Dr. Chance, will well repay perusal.