DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH. 621 upon the dentine, which presents a number of minute depressions for their reception; and forming the free surface of the crown by the other extremity. These fibres are directed vertically on the summit of the crown, horizontally at the sides; they are about the 5-5-^0^ of au inch in diameter, and pursue a more or less wavy course, which gives to the cut surface of the enamel the appearance of a series of concentric lines. Numerous minute interstices intervene between the enamel-fibres near their dentinal surface, a provision calculated to allow of the permeation of fluids from the dentinal tubuli into the substance of the enamel. The enamel-rods consist of solid hexagonal or four-sided prisms, connected by their surfaces and ends, and filled with calcareous matter. If the latter is removed, by weak acid, from newly- formed or growing enamel, it will be found to present a network of delicate prismatic cells of animal matter. Chemical Composition. According to Bibra, enamel consists of 96*5 per cent, of earthy matter, and 3*5 per cent, of animal matter. The earthy matter consists of phosphate of lime, with traces of fluoride of calcium, carbonate of lime, phos- phate of magnesia and other salts. The Cortical Substance, or cement {crusta petrosa), is disposed as a thin layer on the roots of the teeth, from the termination of the enamel, as far as the apex of the fang, where it is usually very thick. In structure and chemical com- position, it resembles bone. It contains, sparingly, the lacun£e and canaliculi which characterise true bone : the lacunte placed near the surface, have the canaliculi radiating from the side of the lacunte towards the periodontal membrane; and those more deeply placed, join with the adjacent dental tubuli. In the thicker portions of the crusta petrosa, the lamellae and Haversian canals peculiar to bone are also found. As age advances, the cement increases in thickness, and gives rise to those bony growths, or exostoses, so common in the teeth of the aged; the pulp cavity becomes also partially filled up by a hard substance, intermediate in structure between dentine and bone {psleo-dentine, Owen; secondary dentine. Tomes). It appears to be formed by a slow conversion of the dental pulp, which shrinks, or even disappears. | Development of the Teeth (figs. 324 to 329). According to the observations of Arnold and Goodsir, the teeth are developed from the mucous membrane covering the edges of the maxillary arches. About the sixth week of fojtal life (fig. 324), the mucous membrane covering the edge of the upper jaw, presents a semicircular depression or groove : this is the primitive dental groove (Goodsir), from the floor of which the germs of the ten deciduous or milk-teeth are developed. The germ of each tooth is formed by a conical elevation or papilla of mucous membrane (fig. 325) which constitutes the rudimen- tary pulp of a milk-tooth. The germs of the milk-teeth make their appearance in the following order: at the seventh week, the germ of the first molar of the upper jaw appears; at the eighth week, that for the canine tooth is developed; the two incisor papillte appear about the ninth week (the central preceding the lateral); lastly, the second molar papilla is seen at the tenth T,eek, behind the anterior molar. The teeth of the lower jaw appear rather later, the first molar papilla being only just visible at the seventh week; and the t ^nth papilla not being developed before the eleventh week. This completes the irst or papillary stage of their development. The dental groove now becomes contracted, its margins thickened and prominent, and the groove is converted into follicles for the reception of the papillaj, by the growth of membranous septa, which pass r cross the groove between its borders (fig. 326). The follicles by this means bfcome the alveoli, lined by periosteum, from the bottom of which the process of the mucous mem- brane of the gum rises, which is the germ of the future tooth. The follicle for the first molar is complete about the tenth week; the caiiine follows next,