30 OSTEOLOGY. the skull; each boue is of an irregular quadrilateral form, and presents for ex- amination two surfaces, four borders, and four angles. Surfaces. The external surface (fig. 25) is convex, smooth, and marked about its centre by an eminence, called the parietal eminence, which indicates the point where ossifi^a^on commenced. Crossing the centre of the bone in an arched direction is agcurved ridge, the temporal ridge, for the attachment of the temporal fascia. Abo* this ridge, the surface of the bone is rough and porous, and covered by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis; below it the bone is smooth, forms part of the temporal fossa, and affords attachment to the Temporal muscle. At the back part of the superior border, close to the sagittal suture, is a small foramen, the parietal foramen, which transmits a vein to the superior longitudinal, sinus. Its existence is not constant, and its size varies considerably. The internal surface (fig. 26), concave, presents eminences and depressions for lodging the convolutions of the cerebrum, and numerous furrows for the ramifica- tions of the meningeal arteries; the latter run upwards and backwards from the anterior inferior angle, and from the central and posterior part of the lower border of the bone. Along the upper margin is part of a shallow groove, which, when joined to the opposite parietal, forms a channel for the superior longitudinal sinus, the elevated edges of which afford attachment to the falx cerebri. Near the groove are seen several depressions; they lodge the Pacchionian bodies. The internal opening of the parietal foramen is also seen when that apertui-e exists. 25.—-Left Parietal Bone. External Surface. Borders. The superior, the longest and thickest, is dentated to articulate with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the sagittal suture. The inferior is divided into three parts; of these, the anterior is thin and pointed, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface, and overlapped by the tip of the great wing of the