579 THE SKIN. of a single layer which surrounds those of the fibrous layer; they are converted into thin flat scales, having an imbricated arrangement. The Sebaceous Glands are small, sacculated, glandular organs, lodged in the substance of the corium, or subdermoid tissue. They are found in most parts of the skin, but are most abundant in the scalp and face; they are also very numerous around the apertures of the anus, nose, mouth, and external ear; but are wanting in the palms of the hands, and the soles of the feet. Each gland consists of a single duct, more or less capacious, which terminates in a lobulated pouch-like extremity. The basement membrane forming the wall of the well as the duct, is lined by epithelium, which is filled with particles of sebaceous matter; and this becoming detached into the cavity of the sac, as its growth is renewed, constitutes the secretion. The sacculi connected with each duct vary in number from two to five, or even twenty. The orifices of the ducts open most frequently into the hair-follicles, but occasionally upon the general surface. On the nose and face, the glands are of large size, distinctly lobulated, and often become much enlarged from the accumulation of pent-up secretion. The largest sebaceous glands are those found in the eyelids, the Meibomian glands. The Sudoriferous or Siveat-Glands, are the organs by which a large portion of the aqueous and gaseous materials are excreted by the skin. They are found in almost every part of the skin, and are situated in small pits in the deep parts of the corium, or in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, surrounded by a quantity of adipose tissue. They are small, lobular, reddish bodies, consisting of one or more convoluted tubuli, from which the efferent duct proceeds upwards through the corium and cuticle, and opens upon the surface by a slightly enlarged orifice. The efferent duct, as it passes through the corium, pursues, for a short distance, a spiral course, becoming straight in the more superficial part of this layer, and opens on the surface of the cuticle by an oblique valve-like aperture. In the parts where the epidermis is thin, the ducts are finer and almost straight in their course; but where the epidermis is thicker, they assume again a spiral arrange- ment, the separate windings of the tube being as close and as regular as those of a common screw. The spiral course of these ducts is especially distinct in tHe thick cuticle of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot. The size of these glands varies. They are especially large in those regions where the amount of perspi- ration is great, as in the axillas, where they form a thin mammillated layer of a reddish colour, which corresponds exactly to the situation of the hair in this region; they are large, also, in the groin. Their number varies. They are most numerous on the palm of the hand, presenting, according to Krause, 2,800 orifices on a square inch of the integument, and are rather less numerous on the sole of the foot. In both of these situations, the orifices of the ducts are exceedingly regular, and correspond to the small transverse grooves which intersect the ridges of papillas. In other situations they are more irregularly scattered, but in nearly equal numbers over parts including the same extent of surface. In the neck and back they are least numerous, their number amounting to 417 on the square inch (Krause). Their total number is estimated by the sa?ne writer at 2,381,248; and supposing the aperture of each gland to represent a surface of of a line in diameter, he calculates that the whole of these glands would present an evapo- rating surface of about eight square inches. Each gland consists of a single tube intricately convoluted, terminating at one end by a blind extremity, and opening at the other end upon the surface of the skin. In the larger glands, this single duct usually divides and subdivides dichotomously; the smaller ducts ultimately terminating in short enseal pouches, rarely anastomosing. The wall of the duct is thick; the width of the canal rarely exceeding one-third of its diameter. The tube, both in the gland and where it forms the excretory duct, consists of two layers: an outer, formed by fine areolar tissue; and an inner layer of epithelium. The external, or fibro-cellular coat, is thin, continuous with the superficial layer of the corium, and extends only as high as the surface of the true skin. The epithelial lining is much thicker, continuous with the epidermis, and alone forms P P 2