ORGANS OF SENSE. 598 The infer or tarsal cartilage, the smaller, is thinner, and of an elliptical form. The free, or ciliary margin of the cartilages is thick, and i^resents a perfectly straight edge. The attached, or orbital margin, is connected to the circum- ference of the orbit by the fibrous membrane of the lids. The outer angle of each cartilage is attached to the malar bone by the external palpebral or tarsal ligament. The inner angles of tlie two cartilages terminate at the commencement of the lacus lachrymalis, being fixed to the margins of the orbit by the tendo oculi. The fibrous membrane of the lids, or tarsal ligament, is a layer of fibrous membrane, beneath the Orbicularis, attached, externally, to tlie margin of the orbit, and internally to the orbital margin of the lids. It is thick and dense at the outer part of the orbit, but becomes thinner as it approaches the cartilages. This membrane serves to support the eyelids, and retains the tarsal cartilages in their position. The Meibomian glands (fig. 309) are situated upon the inner surface of the eyelids, between the tarsal cartilages and conjunctiva, and may be distinctly seen through the mucous membrane on everting the eyelids, presenting the appearance of parallel strings of pearls. They are about thirty in number in the upper cartilage, 309.—The Meibomian Glands, etc., seen from the Inner Surface of the Eyelids. and somewhat fewer in the lower. They are imbedded in grooves in the inner surface of the cartilages, and correspond in length with the breadth of each cartilage; they ai-e, consequently, longer in the upper than in the lower eyelid. Their ducts open on the free margin of the lids by minute foramina, which correspond in number to the follicles. These glands ut'C a variety of the cutaneous sebaceous glands, each consisting of a single straight tube or follicle, having a coecal termination, into which open a number of small secondary follicles. The tubes consist of basement membrane, covered by a Inj'er of scaly epitliclium; tlie cells are charged with sebaceous matter, which constitutes the secretion. The peculiar parallel arrangement of these glands side by side, forms a smooth layer, adapted to the surface of the globe, over which they constantly glide. The use of their secretion is to prevent adhesion of the lids. The ei/elashes (cilia) are attached to the free edges of the eyelids; they are short, thick, curved hairs, arranged in a double or triple row at the margin of the lids: tliose of the upper lid, more numerous and longer than the lower, curve upwards; those of the lower lid curve downwards, so that they do not interlace in closing the lids. The conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the oyc. It lines the inner surface