TIBIA. anterior aspect of the bone, is an eminence, the spinous process of the tibia, sur- mounted by a prominent tubercle on each side, which give attachment to the ex-- tremities of the semilunar fibro-cartilages: in front and behind the spinous process is a rough depression for the attachment of the anterior and posterior crucial liga- ments and the semilunar cartilages. Anteriorly the tuberosities are continuous with one another, presenting a large and somewhat flattened triangular sui'face, broad above, and perforated by large vascular foramina, narrow below, where it termi- nates in a prominent oblong elevation of large size, the tubercle of the tibia; the lower half of this tubercle is rough, for the attachment of the ligamentum patella; the upper half is a smooth facet corresponding, in the I'ecent state, with a bursa which separates the ligament from the bone. Posteriorly, the tuberosities are sepa- rated from each other by a shallow depression, the popliteal notch, which gives attachment to the posterior crucial ligament. The posterior surface of the injjer tuberosity presents a deep transverse groove, for the insertion of the tendon of the Semimembranosus; and the posterior surface of the outer one, a flat articular facet, nearly circular in form, directed downwards, backwards, and outwards, for articu- lation with the fibula. The lateral surfaces are convex and rough: the internal one, the most prominent, gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament. The Shaft of the tibia is of a triangular prismoid form, broad above, gradually decreasing in size to the commencement of its lower fourth, its most slender part, where fracture most frequently occurs: it then enlarges again towards its lower extremity. It presents for examination three surfaces and three borders. The anterior border, the most prominent of the three, is called the crest of the tibia, or, in popular language, the shin; it commences above at the tubercle, and terminates below at the anterior margin of the inner malleolus. This border is very prominent in the upper two-thirds of its extent, smooth and rounded below. It presents a very flexuous course, being curved outwards above, and inwards below; it gives attachment to the deep fascia of the leg. The internal border is smooth and rounded above and below, but more promi- nent in the centre; it' commences at the back part of the inner tuberosity, and terminates at the posterior border of the internal malleolus; its upper third gives attachment to the inteimal lateral ligament of the knee, and to some fibres of the Popliteus muscle; its middle third, to some fibres of th6 Soleus and Flexor longus digitorum muscles. The external border is thin and prominent, especially its central part, and gives attacliraent to the interosseous membrane; it commences above in front of the fibular articular facet, and bifurcates below, to form the boundaries of a triangular rough surface, for the attachment of the interosseous ligament, connecting the tibia and fibula. The internal surface is smooth, convex, and broader above than below; its^/ upper third, directed forwards and inwards, is covered by the aponeurosis deju^^d ; from the tendon of the Sartorius, and by the tendons of the Gracilis and ^^nii- \ tendinosus, all of which are inserted nearly as far forwards as the anterio' ;v^rder; in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous. ' ^ The exter'^al surface is narrower than the internal; its upper two-tM-jg pre- sent a shallow groove for the attachment of the Tibialis anticus muscle/j^s lower ' third is smooth, convex, curves gradually forwards to the anterior par t/^f ^j^g boiTe"^ and is covered from within OL:twards by thetendons of thefoUowing mj^cles: Tibialis anticus, Extensor proprius pollicis. Extensor longus digitorum, Fgioneus tertius. The posterior surface (fig. 110) presents, at its upper part, a^ jjrominent rido-e the oblique line of the tibia, which extends from the back part of the articular facet for the fibula, obliquely downwards, to the internal border, §t the junction of its upper and middle thiiids. It marks the limit for the insertion of the Popliteus muscle, and serves for'^e attachment of the popliteal 4scia, and part of the Soleus, Flexor longus digitorum, and Tibialis poSi;t3<PSjduscles; the triangular concave surface, above and to the inner side of tl>^ line, gives attachment to the Popliteus muscle}. The middle third 0/ the posterior surface is