ARTICULATIONS. 192 separated from the capsular ligament by a synovial bursa; above, the short head of the Rectus and Gluteus minimus, the latter being closely adherent to the capsule; internally, the Obturator externus and Pectineus; behind, the Pyriformis, Gemellus superior, Obturator internus. Gemellus inferior, Obturator externus, and Quadratus femoris. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the obturator, sciatic, internal circumflex, and gluteal. The Nerves are articular branches from the sacral plexus, great sciatic, obtu- rator, and accessory obturator nerves. Actions. The movements of the hips, like all enarthrodial joints, are very extensive; they are, flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. II. Knee-Joint. The knee is a ginglymoid, or hinge-joint; the bones entering into its formation are, the condyles of the femur above, the head of the tibia below, and the patella in front. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected together by ligaments, some of Avhich are placed on the exterior of the joint, whilst others occupy its interior. External Ligaments. Internal Ligaments. Anterior, or Ligamentum Pa- Anterioi-, or External Crucial. tellfe. Posterior, or Internal Crucial. Posterior, or Ligamentum Pos- Two Semilunar Fibro-cartilages. ticum Winslowii. Transverse. Internal Lateral. Coronary. Two External Lateral. Ligamentun^ mucosura. Capsular, Ligamenta. alaria. The Anterior I^igament, or lAgamentum Patellce (fig. 139), is that portion of the common tendon of the extensor muscles of the thigh which is continued from the patella to the tubercle of the tibia, supplying the place of an anterior ligament. It is a strong, flat, ligamentous band, about three inches in length, attached, above, to the apex of the patella and the rough depression on its posterior surface; below, to the lower part of the tuberosity of the tibia; its superficial fibres being continuous across the front of the patella with those of the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor. Tavo synovial bursae are connected with this ligament and the patella; one is inter- posed between the patella and the skin covering its anterior surface; the other, of small size, between the ligamentum patellae and the upper part of the tuberosity of the tibia. The posterior surface of this ligament is separated above from the knee-joint by a large mass of adipose tissrpe; its lateral margins are continuous with the aponeuroses derived from' the Vasti muscles. The Posterior I^igament, I^igamentum Posticum PFinslowii (fig. 140), is a broad, flat, fibrous band, which covers over the whole of the back part of the joint. It consists of two lateral portions, formed chiefly of vertical fibres, which arise above from the condyles bf the femur, and are connected below with the back part of the head of the tibia, being closely united with the tendons of the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Popliteus muscles; the central portion is formed of fasciculi obliquely directed and separated from one another by apertures for the passage of vessels. 1 The strongest of these fasciculi is derived from the tendon of the Semi-membra- nosus; it passes from the back part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, obliquely upwards and outwards to the back part of the outer condyle of the femur. The posterior ligament forms part of the floor of the popliteal space, and upon it rests the popliteal artery. The Internal Lateral Ligament is a broad, flat, membranous band, thicker behind than in front, and situated nearer to the back than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to the inner tuberosity of the femur; below, to the inner