EXTERNAL ILIAC. 407 Plan of the Relations of the External Iliac Artery. In front. Peritoneum, intestines, and iliac fascia. Spermatic vessels. Genito-ci"ural nerve. Circumflex iliac vein. L_ymphatic vessels and glands. Outer side. Psoas magnus. Iliac fascia. Inner side. External iliac vein and vas deferens, at femoral arch. Behind. External iliac vein. Psoas magnus. Surgical Anatomy. Tlie application of a ligature to the external iliac maybe required in cases of aneurism of the femoral artery, or in cases of secondary hasmorrhage, after the latter vessel has been tied for popliteal aneurism. This vessel may be secured in any part of its course, excepting near its upper end, which is to be avoided on account of the prox- imity of the great stream of blood in the internal iliac, and near its lower end, which should also be avoided, on account of the proximity of the epigastric and circumflex iliac vessels. One of the chief points in the performance of the operation is to secure the vessel without injury to the peritoneum. The patient having been placed in the recumbent position, an incision should be made, commencing about an inch above and to the inner side of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and running downwards and outwards to the outer end of Poupart's ligament, and parallel with its outer half, to a little above its middle. The abdominal muscles and transversalis fascia having been cautiously divided, the peritoneum should be separated from the iliac fossa and pushed towards the pelvis ; and on introducing the finger to the bottom of the wound the artery may be felt pulsating along the inner border of Psoas muscle. The external iliac vein is situated along the inner side of the artery, and must be cautiously separated from it by the tinger-nail, or handle of the knife, and the aneurism needle should be introduced on the inner side, between the artery and vein. Collateral Circulation. The principal anastomoses in carrying on the collateral circu- lation, after the application of a ligature to the external iliac, are—the ilio-lumbar with the circumflex iliac; the gluteal with the external circumflex; the obtui'ator with the internal circumflex ; the sciatic with the profunda artery ; the internal pudic with the external pudic, and with the internal circumflex. When the obturator arises from the epigastric, it is supplied with blood by branches, either from the internal iliac, the lateral sacral, or the internal pudic. The epigastric receives its supply from the internal mammary and inferior intercostal arteries, and from the internal iliac, by the anastomoses of its branches with the obturator. In the dissection of a limb, eighteen years after the successful ligature of the external iliac artery, by Sir A. Cooper, which is to be found in Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 50, the anastomosing branches are described in three sets. An anterior set. i. A very large branch from the ilio lumbar artery to the circumflex iliac ; 2. Another branch from the ilio lumbar, joined by one from the obturator, and breaking up into numerous tortuous branches to anastomose with the external circumflex; 3. Two other branches from the obturator, which passed over the brim of the pelvis, communicated with the epigastric, and then broke up into a plexus to anastomose with the internal circumflex. An internal set. Branches given off" from the obturator, after quitting the pelvis, which ramified . .moug the adductor muscles on the inner side of the hip joint, and joined most freely wii-h branches of the internal circumflex. A. posterior set. t . Three large branches from the gluteal to the external circumflex ; 2. Several branches from the sciatic around the great sciatic notch to the internal and external circumflex, and the perforating branches of ^Ihe profunda. Branches. Besides several small branches to the Psoas muscles and the neigh- bouring lymphatic glands, the external iliac gives off two branches of considerable size, the Epigastric. Circumflex iliac. The epigastric artery arises from the external iliac, a few lines above Poupart's ligament. It at first descends to reach this ligament, and then ascends obliquely upwards and inwards between the peritoneum aud transversalis i fascia, to the margin of the sheath of the Rectus muscle. Having perforated the sheath near Near Poupart's Ligament.