402 ARTERIES. The superior vesical is that part of the foetal hypogastric artery, which remains pervious after birth. It extends to the side of the bladder, distributing numerous branches to the body and fundus of this organ. From one of these, a slender vessel is derived, which accompanies the vas deferens in its course to the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. This is the artery of the vas deferens. Other branches supply the ureter. The middle vesical, usually a branch of the superior, is distributed to the base of the bladder, and under surface of the vesicula? seminales. The inferior vesical arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, in common with the middle hsBraorrhoidal, and is distributed to the base of the bladder, the prostate gland, and vesiculre seminales. The branches distributed to the prostate, communicate with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. The middle licemorrhoidal artery usually arises together with the preceding vessel. It supplies the rectum, anastomosing with the other hajmorrhoidal arteries. The uterine artery passes downwards from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac to the neck of the uterus. Ascending, in a tortuous course, on the side of this viscus, between the layers of the broad ligament, it distributes branches to its substance, anastomosing, near its termination, with a branch from the ovarian artery. Branches from this vessel are also distributed to the bladder and ureter. The vaginal artery is analogous to the inferior vesical in the male; it descends upon the vagina, supplying its mucous membrane, and sending branches to the neck of the bladder, and contiguous part of the rectum. The Obturator Artery usually rises from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, frequently from the posterior. It passes forwards below the brim of the pelvis, to the canal in the upper border of the obturator foramen, and, escaping from the pelvic cavity through this aperture, divides into an internal and an external branch. In the pelvic cavity, this vessel lies upon the pelvic fascia, beneath the peritoneum, and a little below the obturator nerve; and, whilst passing through the obturator foramen, is contained in an oblique canal, formed by the horizontal branch of the pubes, above; and the arched border of the obturator membrane, below. ^ Branches. Within the pelvis, the obturator artery gives off an iliac branch to the iliac fossa, which supplies the bpue and the Iliacus muscle, and anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery; a vesical branch, which runs backwards to supply the bladder; and a pubic branch, which is given off from the vessel just before it leaves the pelvic cavity. This branch ascends upon the back of the pubes, com- municating with offsets from the epigastric artery, and with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. This branch is.placed on the inner side of the femoral ring. External to the pelvis, the obturator artery divides into an external and an internal branch, which are deeply situated beneath the Obturator exteruus muscle; skirting the circumference of the obturator foramen, they anastomose at the lower part of this aperture with each other, and with branches of the internal circumflex artery. The internal branch curves inwards along the inner margin of the obturator foramen, distributing branches to the Obturator muscles, Pectineus, Adductors, and Gracilis, and anastomoses with the external branch, and with the internal circumflex artery. The external branch curves round the outer margin of the foramen, to the space between the G-emellus inferior and Quadratus femoris, where it anastomoses with the sciatic artery. It supplies the Obturator muscles, anastomoses, as it passes backwards, with the internal circumflex, and sends a branch to the hip- joint through the cotyloid notch, which ramifies on the round ligament as far as the head of the femur. _ Peculiarities. In two out of every three cases the obturator arises from the internal ihac; in one case in 3I from the epigastric; and in about one in seventy-two cases by the roots from both vessels. It arises in about the same proportion from the external iliac