MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. 3o6 Obtiu-;itor intcrnus, which is received iuto a groove between them. They are called superior and inferior. The Gemellus Superior, tlie smaller of the two, arises from the outer surface of the spine of the ischium, and passing liorizontally outwards, becomes blended with the upper part of the tendon of the Obturator interuus, and is inserted with it into the upper border of the great trochanter. This muscle is sometimes wanting. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Gluteus maximus and the ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its deep surface, with the capsule of the hip joint. By its upper border, with the lower margin of the Pyriformis. By its lower border, with the tendon of the Obturator interuus. The Gemellus Inferior arises from the upper part of the outer border of the tuberosity of the ischium, and, passing horizontally outwards, is blended with the lower part of the tendon of the Obturator interuus, and inserted with it into the upper border of the great trochanter. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Gluteus maximus, and the ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its decj} surface, with the capsular ligament of the hip joint. By its upper border, with the tendon of the Obturator interuus. By its lower border, with the tendon of the Obturator externus and Quadratus femoris. The Quadratus Femoris is a short, fiat muscle, quadrilateral in shape (hence its name), situated between the Gemellus inferior and the upper margin of the Ad- ductor magnus. It arises from the outer border of the tuberosity of the ischium, and proceeding horizontally outwards, is inserted iuto the upper part of the linca quadrati, on the posterior surface of the trochanter major. A synovial bursa is often found between the under surface of this muscle and the lesser trochanter, which it covers. Relatio7is. By its ptosterior surface, with the Gluteus maximus and the sciatic vessels and nerves. By its anterior surface, with the tendon of the Obturator externus and trochanter minor. By its upper border, the Gemellus inferior. Its lower border is separated from the Adductor magnus by the terminal branches of the internal circumflex vessels. Dissection. In order to expose the next muscle (the Obturator externus), it is necessary to remove the Psoas, Iliacus, Pectineus, and Adductor brevis and lorigus muscles, from the front and inner side of the thigh; and the Gluteus maximus and Quadratus femoris, from the back jJart. Its dissection should cousequeutly l)e postponed until the muscles of the anterior aud internal femoral regions have been examined. The Obturator Externus is a flat triangular muscle, which covers the outer surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis. It arises from the margin of bone immediately around the inner side of the obturator foramen, viz., from the body and ramus of the pubes, and the ramus of the ischium; it also arises from the inner two-thirds of the outer surface of the obturator membrane, and from the tendinous arch which completes the canal for the passage of the obturator vessels aiid nerves. The fibres converging pass outwards and backwards, and terminate in a tendon which runs across the back part of the hip joint, and is inserted into the digital fossa of the femur. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Psoas, Iliacus, Pectineus, Adductor longus. Adductor brevis, aud Gracilis; and more externally, with the neck of the femur and capsule of the hip joint. 'Qy it?, poste7-ior surface, the obturator membrane and Quadratus femoris. Nerves. The Gluteus maximus is supplied by the inferior gluteal nerve and a branch from the sacral plexus; the Gluteus medius and minimus, by the superior gluteal; the Pyriformis, Gemelli, Obturator internus, and Quadratus femoris, by branches from the sacral plexus, and the Obturator externus, by the obturator nerve. Actions. The Glutei muscles, when they take their fixed point from the pelvis, are ail abductors of tlie thigh. The Gluteus maximus and the posterior fibres of