SURGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 744 and leads into the cavity of the abdomen.* It is bounded in front by Poupart's ligament and the deep crural arch; behind, by the pubes, covered by the Pectiiieus muscle, and the pubic portion of the fascia lata; internally, by Gimbernat's ligament, the conjoined tendon, the transversalis fascia, and the deep crural arch; externally, by the femoral vein, covered by its sheath. The femoral ring is of an oval form, its long diameter, directed transversely, measures about half an inch, and it is larger in the female than in the male, which is one of the reasons of the greater frequency of femoral hernia in the former sex. 385.—Hernia. The Relations of the Femoral and Internal Abdominal Eings, seen from within the Abdomen. Right Side. Position of Parts around the Ring. The spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female, lie immediately above the anterior margin of the femoral ring, and may be divided in an operation for femoral hernia if the incision for the relief of the stricture is not of limited extent. In the female, this is of little importance, but in the male the spermatic arteiy and vas deferens may be divided. The femoral vein lies on the outer side of the ring. The epigastric artery, in its passage inwai'ds from the external iliac to the umbilicus, passes across the upper and outer angle of the crural ring, and is con- sequently in danger of being wounded if the stricture is divided in a direction upwards and outwards. The communicating branch between the epigastric and obturator lies in front of the ring. The circumference of the ring is thus seen to be bounded by vessels in every part excepting internally and behind. It is in the former position that the stricture is divided in cases of strangulated femoi-al hernia. The obturator artery, when it arises by a common trunk with the epigastric, which occurs once in every three subjects and a half, bears a very important rela- tion to the crural ring. In some cases (fig. 386), it descends on the inner side of the external iliac vein to the obturator foramen, and will consequently lie on the outer side of the crural ring, where there is no danger of its being wounded in the operation for dividing the stricture in femoral hernia Occasionally, however, * This ring, like the crural canal, is a morbid, or an artificial product. 'Each femoral hernia makes for itself (for neither outlet exists in the natural anatomy of the region,) a crural canal, and a crural (femoral) ring.'—Callender, op. cit., p. 4.0.