i86 ARTICULATIONS. Actons. The movements permitted in this joint are flexion, extension, abduc- tion, adduction, and circumduction. It is totally incapable of rotation, one of the characteristic movements in true enarthrodial joints. VIII. Articulations of the Carpus. These articulations may be subdivided into three sets. 1. The Articulations of the First Row of Carpal Bones 2. The Articulations of the Second Row of Carpal Bones. 3. The Articulations of the Two Rows with each other. I. Articulations of the First Row of Carpal Bones. These are arthrodial joints. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments:— Two Dorsal. Two Palmar. Two Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments are placed transversely behind the bones of the first row; they connect the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar and cuneiform. The Palmar Ligaments connect the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar and cuneiform bones; they are less strong than the dorsal, and jilaced very deep under the anterior ligament of the wrist. The Interosseous I^igaments (fig. 136) ai*e two narrow bundles of fibrous tissue, connecting the semilunar bone, on one side with the scaphoid, on the other with the cuneiform. They close the upper part of the interspaces between the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, their upper surfaces being smooth, and lined by the synovial membrane of the wrist-joint. The articulation of the pisiform with the cuneiform is provided with a separate synovial membrane, protected by a thin capsular ligament. There are also two strong fibrous fasciculi, which connect this bone to the unciform, and base of the fifth metacarpal bone. 2. Articulations of the Second Row of Carpal Bones. These are arthrodial joints, the articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected by the following ligaments:— Three Dorsal. Three Palmar. Two Interosseous. The three Dorsal Ligaments extend transversely from one bone to another on the dorsal surface, connecting the trapezium with the trapezoid, the trapezoid with the OS magnum, and the os magnum with the unciform. The three Palmar Ligaments have a similar arrangement on the palmar surface. The two Interosseous Ligaments, much thicker than those of the first row, are placed one on each side of the os magnum, connecting it with the trapezoid externally, and the unciform internally. The former is less distinct than the latter. 3. Articulations of the Two Rows of Carpal Bones with each other. The articulations between the two rows of the carpus consist of a joint in the middle, formed by the reception of the head of the os magnum into a cavity formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bones, and of an arthrodial joint on each side, the outer one, formed by the articulation of the scaphoid with the trapezium and trapezoid, the internal one by the articulation of the cuneiform and unciform. The articular surfaces are covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and connected by the following ligaments:— Anterior or Palmar Exterijal Lateral. Posterior or Dorsal. Internal Lateral.