THE EAR. 6oi eminences and depressions, which result from the foldings of its fibro-cartilaginons element. 311. -The Pinna, or Auricle. Outer Surface. cartilage To each of these names have been assigned. Thus, the external pro- minent rim of the auricle is called the helix. Another curved prominence parallel with, and in front of the helix, is called the anti- helix ; this bifurcates above, so as to enclose a triangular depression, the fossa of the antihelix. The narrow curved de- pression between the helix and antihelix, is called the fossa of the helix { fossa inno- minata, scaphoidea). The antihelix de- scribes a curve round a deep, capacious cavity, the concha, which is partially divided into two parts by the commencement of the helix. In front of the concha, and project- ing backwards over the meatus is a small pointed eminence, the tragus; so called from its being generally covered, on its under surfjice, with a tuft of hair, resembling a goat's beard. Opposite the tragus, and sepa- rated from it by a deep notch {iiicisura intertragica), is a small tubercle, the anti- tragiis. Below this is the lobule, composed of tough areolar and adipose tissues, wanting the firmness and elasticity of the rest of the pinna. Structure of the pinna. The pinna is composed of a thin plate of yellow covered with integument, and connected to the surrounding parts by ligaments, and a few muscular fibres. The integument is thin, closely adherent to the cartilage, and furnished with sebaceous glands, which are most numerous in the concha and scaphoid fossa. The cartilage of the pinna consists of one single piece; it gives form to this part of the ear, and upon its surface are found all the eminences and depressions above described. It does not enter into the construction of all parts of the auricle; thus, it does not form a constituent part of the lobule; it is deficient, also, between the tragus and beginning of the helix, the notch between them being filled up by dense fibrous tissue. It presents several intervals or fissures in its substance, which partially separate the different parts. The fissure of the helix is a short, vertical slit, situated at the fore part of the pinna, immediately behind a small cartilage, opposite the first curve of the helix (process of fissure, the fissure of the tragus, is seen upon the anterior The antihelix is divided below, by a deep fissure, into two parts; one part terminates by a pointed, tail-like extremity {processus caudatus); the other is continuous with the antitragus. The cartilage of the pinna is very pliable, elastic, of a yellowish colour, and similar in structure to the cartilages of the nose. The ligaments of the pinna consist of two sets. I. Tliose connecting it to the side of the head. 2. Those connecting the various parts of its cartilage together. The former, the most important, are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior ligament extends from the process of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior ligament passes from the posterior surface of the concha, to the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. A few fibres connect the tragus to the root of the zygoma. The ligaments connecting the various parts of the cartilage together, are also two in number. Of these, one is a strong fibrous band, stretching across from the tragus to the commencement of the helix, completing the meatus in front, and partly conical projection of the helix). Another surface of the tragus.