6o OSTEOLOGY. groove on the back of the nasal process of the superior maxillary, and thus assists in forming the lachrymal canal. At the junction of the two middle fourths of the bone, but encroaching on the latter, a broad thin plate, the ethmoidal process, ascends to join the unciform pro- cess of the ethmoid; from the lower border of this process, a thin lamina of bone curves downwards and outwards, hooking over the the orifice of the it narrows below; maxillary process, bone firmly on to of the nasal fossa. thick 53-- -Eight Inferior Turbinated Bone. Inner Surface. lower edge of antrum, which it is called the and fixes the the outer wall The inferior border is free, and cellular in structure, more especially in the centre of the bone. Both extremities are moi'e or less naiTow and pointed, is held so that its outer concave surface is directed backwards 54-- the holder), and its superior border, from which the lachrymal and ethmoidal processes project, upwards, the lachrymal process will be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Development. By a single centre which makes its appearance about the middle of foetal life. Articulations. With four bones; one of the cranium, the ethmoid, and three of the face, the superior maxillary, lachrymal and palate. No muscles are attached to this bone. If the bone (i.e., towards •Right Inferior Turbinated Bone. Outer Surface. The Vomer. Vomer. The Vomer is a single bone, situated vertically at the back part of the nasal fossffi, forming part of the septum of the nose. It is thin, somewhat like a ploughshare in form; but it varies in different individuals, being frequently bent to one or the other side; it presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The lateral surfaces are smooth, marked with small furrows for the lodgment of blood-vessels, and by a gi'oove on each side, sometimes a canal, the naso-palatine, which runs obliquely downwards and forwards to the intermaxillary suture between the two ante- rior palatine canals; it trans- mits the naso-palatine nerve. The superior border, the thickest, presents a deep groove, bounded on each side by a horizontal projecting ala of bone; the groove receives the rostrum of the sphenoid, whilst the alse are overlapped and retained by laminas (the vaginal processes) which project from the under surface of the body of the sphenoid at the base of the pterygoid processes. At the front of the groove a fissure is left for the transmission of blood-vessels to the substance of the bone. The inferior border, the longest, is broad and uneven