CERVICAL GANGLIA. 567 anterior part of the cavernous plexus; it accompanies the nasal nerve, or continues forwards as a separate branch. The terminal filaments from the carotid and cavernous plexuses are prolonged along the internal carotid, forming plexuses which entwine round the cerebral and ophthalmic arteries; aloug'the former vessel they may be traced on to the pia mater; along the latter, into the orbit, where they accompany each of the sub- divisions of the vessel, a separate plexus passing with the arteria centralis retinfe into the interior of the eyeball. The inferior or descending branch of the superior cervical ganglion communi- cates with the middle cervical ganglion. The external branches are numerous, and communicate with the cranial nerves, and with the four upper spinal nerves. Sometimes, the branch to the fourth spinal nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper and middle cervical ganglia. The branches of communication with the cranial nerves consist of delicate filaments, which pass from the superior cervical ganglion to the ganglion of the trunk of the pneumogastric, and to the ninth nerve. A separate filament from the cervical ganglion subdivides and joins the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, and the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric in the jugular foramen. The internal branches are three in number: pharyngeal, laryngeal, and the superior cardiac nerve. The pharyngeal branches pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, where they join with branches from the pneumogastric, glosso-pharyn- geal, and external laryngeal nerves, and assist in forming the pharyngeal -plexus. The laryngeal branches unite with the superior laryngeal nerve and its branches. The superior cardiac nerve will be described in connection with the other cardiac nerves. The anterior branches ramify upon the external carotid artery and its branches, forming round each a delicate plexus, on the nerves composing which small ganglia are occasionally found. These ganglia have been named, according to their position, intercarotid (one placed at the angle of bifurcation of the common carotid), lingual, temporal, and pharyngeal. The plexuses accompanying some of these arteries have important communications with other nerves. That surround- ing the external carotid, is connected with the digastric branch of the facial; that surrounding the facial,, communicates with the submaxillary ganglion by one or two filaments; and that accompanying the middle meningeal artery, sends offsets which pass to the otic ganglion and to the iutumescentia ganglioformis of the facial nerve. The Middle Cervical Ganglion (thyroid ganglion) is the smallest of the three cervical ganglia, and is occasionally altogether wanting. It is placed opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, usually upon, or close to, the inferior thyroid artery; hence the name ' thyroid ganglion,' assigned to it by Haller. Its superior branches ascend to communicate with the superior cervical ganglion. Its inferior branches descend to communicate with the inferior cervical ganglion. Its external branches pass outwards to join the fifth and sixth spinal nerves. These branches are not constantly found. Its internal branches are, the thyroid, and the middle cardiac nerve. The thyroid branches are small filaments, which accompany the inferior tliyroid artery to the thyroid gland; they communicate, on the artery, with the superior cardiac nerve, and, in the gland, with branches from the recuiTent and external laryngeal nerves. The middle cardiac nerve is described with the other cardiac nerves. The Inferior Cervical Ganglion is situated between the base of the trans- verse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, on the inner side of the superior intercostal artery. Its form is irregular; it is larger in size than the preceding, and frequently joined with the first thoracic ganglion. Its superior branches communicate with the middle cervical ganglion.