OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 323 199.—Fracture of the Neck of the Femur within the Capsular Ligament. OR INTER^ s INFERIOR ATOR E»TERMU> 00.—Fracture of the Femur below the Trochanters. SEMf-MEMBRAR. SEMr,- T.tNDINj;- Fracture of the neck of the femur internal to the capsular ligament (fig. 199) is a very common accident, and is most frequently caused by indirect vio- lence, such as slipping off the edge of the kerlistone, the impetus and weight of the body falhng upon the neck of the bone. It usually occurs in females, and seldom under fifty years of age. At this pei'iod of life, the cancel- lous tissue of the neck of the bone not unfrequently is atrophied, becoming sott and infiltrated with fatty ;mobi! matter; the compact tis- sue is partially absorbed: hence the bone is more brittle, and more liable to fracture. The character- istic marks of this accident are slight shortening of the limb, and evei-sion of the foot, neither of which symptoms occur, however, _ in some cases until some time after the injury. The eversion is caused by the com- liined action of the external rotator muscles, as well as by the Psoas and Iliacus, Pectineus, Adductoi's, and Glutei muscles. The shortening and retraction is produced by the action of the Glutei, and by the Rectus femoris in front, and the Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semimembranosus behind. Fracture ihe femur just heloio the trochanters (fig. 200) is an accident of not vmfrequent occurrence, and is at- tended with great displacement, producing considerable deformity. The upper fragment, the portion chiefly dis- placed, is tilted forwards almost at right angles with the pelvi.s, by the combined action of the Psoas and Iliacus; and, at the same time, everted and drawn outwards by the external rotator and Glutei muscles, causing a marked prominence at the upper and outer side of the thigh, and much pain from the bruising and laceration of the muscles. The limb is shortened, from the lower fragment being drawn upwards by the Rectus in front, and the Biceps, Semimembranosus, and Semitendinosus behind; and, at the same time, everted, and the upper end thrown out- wards, the lower inwards, by the Pectineus and Adductor muscles. This fracture may be i-educed in two difi'erent methods: either by direct relaxation of all the opposing muscles, to effect which, the limb should be placed on a double inclined plane ; or by overcoming the contraction of the muscles, by continued extension, which may be effected by means of the long splint. Oblique fracture of the femur immediately above the condyles (fig. 201) is a formidable injury, and attended with considei'able displacement. On examination of the limb, the lower fragment may be felt deep in the popliteal space, being drawn backwards by the Gastrocnemius, Soleus, and Plantaris muscles ; and upwards by the poste- rior femoral, and Rectus muscles. The pointed end of the irpper fragment is drawn inwards by the Pectineus and Adductor n^uscles, and tilted forwards by the Psoas and Iliacus, piercmg the Rectus muscle, and, occasionally, the integument. Relaxation of these muscles, and direct approximation of the broken fragments is eflfected by Y 2