419 DORSALIS PEDIS. and one of the venss comiles on either side; these must be separated from the ai'tery before the aneurism needle is passed round it. To tie this vessel in the lower third of the leg above the ankle-joint, an incision about three inches in length should be made through the integument between the tendons of the Tibialis anticus and Extensor propius poUicis muscles, the deep fascia being divided to the same extent; the tendon on either side should be held aside, when the vessel will be seen lying upon the tibia, with the nerve superficial to it, and one of the venae comites on either side. In order to secure this vessel over the instep, an incision should be made on the fibular side of the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis, between it and the innermost tendon of the long Extensor; the deep fascia having been divided, the artery will be exposed, the nerve lying either superficial to it, or to its outer side. The branches of the anterior tibial artery are, the Recurrent tibial. Internal malleolar. Muscular. ' External malleolar. The recurrent branch arises from the anterior tibial, as soon as that vessel has passed through the interosseous space; it ascends in the Tibialis anticus muscle, and ramifies on the front and sides of the knee-joint, anastomosing vsrith the articular branches of the popliteal. The muscular branches numerous; they are distributed to the muscles which lie on either side of the vessel, some piercing the deep fascia to supply the in- tegument, others passing through the interosseous membrane, and anastomosing vrith branches of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. The malleolar arteries supply the ankle-joint. The internal arises about two inches above the articulation, passes beneath the tendon of the Tibialis anticus to the inner ankle, upon which it ramifies, anastomosing with bi-anches of the posterior tibial and internal plantar arteries. The external passes beneath the tendons of the Extensor longus digitorum and Extensor proprius pollicis, and supplies the outer ankle, anastomosing with the anterior peroneal artery, and with ascending branches from the tarsal branch of the dorsalis pedis. DoRSALis Pedis Artery. The dorsalis pedis, the continuation of the anterior tibial, passes forwards from the bend of the ankle along the tibial side of the foot to the back part of the first interosseous space, where it divides into two branches, the dorsalis hallucis and communicating. Relations. This vessel, in its course forwards, rests upon the astragalus, scaphoid, and internal cuneiform bones and the ligaments connecting them, being covered by the integument and fascia, and crossed near its termination by the innermost tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum. On its tibial side is the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis; on its fibular side, the innermost tendon of the Ex tensor longus digitorum. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the anterior tibial nerve, which lies on its outer side. Plan of the Relations op the Dorsalis Pedis Artery. In front. Integument and fascia. Innermost tendon of Extensor brevis digitorum. Fibular side. Extensor longus digitorum. Anterior tibial nerve. Behind. Astragalus, Scaphoid, Internal cuneiform, and their ligaments. Tibial side. Extensor proprius pollicis. E E 2