497 THIRD VENTRICLE. spread out and form the outer part of the corresponding corpus albicans, from which point they may be traced upwards into the substance of tlie corresponding thalamus opticus. The anterior crura of the fornix are connected in their course with the optic commissure, the white fibres covering the optic thalamus, the peduncle of the pineal gland, and the superficial fibres of the taenia semi- circularis. The posterior crura, at their commencement, are intimately connected by their upper surfaces with the corpus callosum; diverging from one another, they pass downwards into the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, being con- tinuous with the concave border of the hippocampus major. The lateral thin edges of the posterior crura have received the name corpus Jimhriatum, already described. On the under surface of the fornix, towards its posterior part, between the diverging posterior crura, may be seen some transverse lines, and others longitudinal or oblique. This appearance has been termed the lyra, from the fancied resemblance it bears to the strings of a harp. Between the anterior pillars of the fornix and the anterior extremities of the thalami optici, an oval aperture is seen on each side, the foramen of Monro. The two openings descend towards the middle line, and joining together, lead into the upper part of the third ventricle. These openings communicate with the lateral ventricles on each side, and below with the third ventricle. Divide the fornix across anteriorly, and reflect the two portions, the one forwards, the other backwards, when the velum interpositum will be exposed. The velum interpositum is a vascular membrane, reflected from the pia mater into the interior of the brain through the transverse fissure, passing beneath the posterior rounded border of the corpus callosum and fornix, and above the corpora quadrigemina, pineal gland, and optic thalami. It is of a triangular form, and separates the under surface of the body of the fornix from the cavity of the third ventricle. Its posterior border forms an almost complete investment for the pineal gland. Its anterior extremity, or apex, is bifid; each bifurcation being continued into the corresponding lateral ventricle, behind the anterior crura of the fornix, forming the anterior extremity of the choroid plexus. On its under surface are two vascular fringes, which diverge from each other behind, and project into the cavity of the third ventricle. These are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. To its lateral margins are connected the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles. The arteries of the velum interpositum enter from behind, beneath the corpus callosum. Its veins, the venjE Galeni, two in number, run along its under surface; they are formed by the venae corporis striati and the veins of the choroid plexuses: the vena3 Galeni unite posteriorly into a single trunk, which terminates in the straight sinus. The velum inteq>ositum should now be removed. This must be effected carefully, especially at its posterior part, where it invests the pineal gland; the thalami optici will then be exposed with the cavity of the third ventricle between them (fig. 269), The thalami optici are two large oblong masses, placed between the diverging portions of the corpora striata; they are of a white colour superficially; internally, they are composed of white fibres intermixed with grey matter. Each thalamus rests upon its corresponding crus cerebri, which it embraces. Externalhj, it is bounded by the corpus striatum, and tasnia semicircularis; and is continuous witli the hemisphere. Internalhj, it forms the lateral boundary of the third ventricle; and running along its upper border is seen the peduncle of the pineal gland. Its upper surface is free, being partly seen in the lateral ventricle; it is partly covered by the fornix, and marked in front by an eminence, the anterior tubercle. Its under surface forms the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle; into it the crus cerebri passes. Its posterior and inferior part, which projects into the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, presents two small round eminences, the K K