MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. 312 vessels, and internal popliteal nerve. The tendon of the inner head corresponds with the back part of Ihe inner condyle, from which it is separated by a synovial , bursa, which, in some cases, communicates with the cavity of the knee joint. The tendon of the outer head contains a sesamoid fibro-cartilage (rarely osseous), where it plays over the corresponding outer condyle; and one is occasionally found in the tendon of the inner head. The Gastrocnemius should be divided across, just below its origin, and turned down- wards, in order to expose the next muscles. The Salens is a broad flat muscle, situated immediately beneath the preceding. It has received its name from its resemblance in shape to a sole-fish. It arises by tendinous fibres from the back part of the head of the fibula, and from the upper half of the posterior surface of its shaft; from the oblique line of the tibia, and from the middle third of its internal border; some fibres also arise from a tendinous arch placed between the tibial and fibular origins of the muscle, and beneath which the posterior tibial vessels and nerve pass. The fibres pass back- wards to an aponeurosis Avhich covers the posterior surface of-the muscle, and this, gradually becoming thicker and narrower, joins with the tendon of the Gastroc- nemius, and forms with it the Tendo Achillis. delations. By its superficial surface, with the Gastrocnemius and Plantaris. By its deep surface, with the Flexor longus digitorum, Flexor longus pollicis, Tibialis posticus, and posterior tibial vessels and nerve, from which it is separated by the transverse intermuscular septum. The Tendo Achillis, the common tendon of the Gastrocnemius and Soleus, is the thickest and strongest tendon in the body. It is about six inches in length, and formed by the junction of the aponeuroses of the two preceding muscles. It commences about the middle of the leg, but receives fleshy fibres on its anterior surface, nearly to its lower end. Gradually becoming contracted below, it is inserted into the lower part of the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis, a synovial bursa being interposed between the tendon and the upper part of the tuberosity. The tendon spreads otit somewhat, at its lower end, so that its narrowest part is usually about an inch and a half above its insertion. The tendon is covered by the tascia and the integument, and is separated from the deep muscles and vessels, by a considerable interval filled up with areolar and adipose tissue. Along its outer side, but superficial to it, is the external saphenous vein. The Plantaris is an extremely diminutive muscle, placed between the Gastroc- nemius and Soleus, and remarkable for its long and delicate tendon.. It arises from the lower part of the outer bifurcation of the linea aspera, and from the posterior ligament of the knee joint. It forms a small fusiform belly, about two inches in length, which terminates in a long slender tendon, which crosses obliquely between the two muscles of the calf, and, running along the inner border of the Tendo Achillis, is inserted Avith it into the posterior part of the os calcis. This muscle is occasionally double, and is sometimes wanting. Occasionally, its tendon is lost in the internal annular ligament, or in the fascia of the leg. Nerves. These muscles are supplied by the internal popliteal nerve. Actions. The muscles of the calf possess considerable power, and are con- stantly called into use in standing, walking, dancing, and leaping; hence the large size they usually present. In walking, these muscles draw powerfully upon the os calcis, raising the heel, and, with it, the entire body, from the ground; the body being thus supported on the raised foot, the opposite limb can be carried forwards. In standing, the Soleus, taking its fixed point from below, steadies the leg upon the foot, and prevents the body from falling forAvards, to Avhich there is a constant tendency from the superincumbent Aveight. The Gastrocnemius, acting from below, serves to flex the femur upon the tibia, assisted by the Popliteus. The Plantaris is the rudiment of a large muscle Avhich exists in some of the loAver animals, and serves as a tensor of the plantar fascia.