678 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. attached below to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and above to the upper border of the inner surface of the hyoid bone; being separated from the posterior surface of the hyoid bone by a synovial bursa. It is thicker in the middle line than at either side, in which situation it is pierced by the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve. The tivo lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments are rounded, elastic cords, which pass between the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage, and the extremities of the greater cornua of the hyoid bone. A small cartilaginous nodule [cartilago triticed), sometimes bony, is found in each. The ligaments connecting the thyroid cartilage to the cricoid are also three in number; the crico-thyroid membrane, and the capsular ligaments and synovial membrane. The crico-thyroid membrane is composed mainly of yellow elastic tissue. It is of triangular shape; thick in front, where it connects together the contiguous margins of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages; thinner at each side, where it extends from the superior border of the cricoid cartilage, to the inferior margin of • the true vocal cords, with which it is closely united in front. The anterior portion of the crico-thyroid membrane is convex, concealed on each side by the Ci'ico-thyroid muscle, subcutaneous in the middle line, and crossed horizontally by a small anastomotic arterial arch, formed by the junction of the crico-thyroid brandies on either side. The lateral portions are lined internally by mucous membrane, and covered by the lateral Crico-arytenoid and Thyro-arytenoid muscles. A capsular ligament encloses the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid with the side of the cricoid, on each side. The articulation is lined by synovial membrane. The ligaments connecting the arytenoid cartilages to the cricoid, are two thin and loose capsular ligaments connecting together the articulating surfaces, lined internally by synovial membrane, and strengthened behind by a strong posterior crico-arytenoid ligament, which extends from the cricoid to the inner and back part of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The ligaments of the epiglottis are the hyo-epiglottic, the thyro-epiglottic, and the three glosso-epiglottic folds of mucous membrane which connect the epiglottis to the sides and base of the tongue. The latter have been already described. The hyo-epiglottic ligament is an elastic fibrous band, which extends from the anterior surface of the epi- glottis, near its apex, to the posterior surface of the body of the liyoid bone. The thyro-epiglottic liga- ment is a long, slender, elastic cord, which connects the apex of the epiglottis witli the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, immediately beneath tlie median notch, above the attachment of the vocal cords Interior of the Larynx The superior aperture of the larynx (fig.35 7) is a triangu- lar or cordilbrm opening, wide in front, narrow behind, and sloping obliquely downwards aud backwards. It is bounded in front by the epiglottis; behind, b/ the apices of the arytenoid v^artilages, ami the coruicula laryngis; and laterally, by a fold of mucous 357.—The Larynx and adjacent parts, seen from above.