21 DEVELOPMENT OF SACRUM. the under surface of the body of the last lumbar vertebra, bounded behind by the large triangular orifice of the sacral canal. This orifice is formed behind by the spinous process and laminas of the first sacral vertebra, whilst projecting from it on each side are the superior articular processes ; they are oval, concave, directed backwards and inwards, like the superior articular processes of a lumbar vertebra; and in front of each articular process is an intervertebral notch, which forms the lower half of the last intervertebral foramen. Lastly, on each side of the articular surface is a broad and flat triangular surface of bone, which extends outwards, and is continuous on each side Avith the iliac fossa. The Apex, directed downwards and forwards, presents a small oval concave surface for articulation with the coccyx. The Sacral Canal runs throughout the greater part of the bone; it is large and triangular in form above, small and flattened from before backwards below. In this situation, its posterior wall is incomplete, from the non-development of the laminae and spinous processes. It lodges 17.—Development of Sacrum. Formed lij xmioiv of 6 Vertei rce A^dditional' uoitres tlie first 3pieces.* at birth. 18. al A\ years 19. fljpiJiluj&CbT 2 Ef. each lateral surj the sacral nerves, and is perforated by the anterior and posterior sacral fora- mina, through which these pass out. Structure. It consists of much loose spongy tissue within, invested exter- nally by a thin layer of compact tissue. Differences in the Sacrum of THE Male and Female. The sacrum in the female is usually wider than in the male; and it is much less curved, the upper half of the bone being nearly straight, the lower half presenting the greatest amount of curvature. The bone is also directed more obliquely backwards; which inci'eases the size of the pelvic cavity, and forms a more pro- minent sacro-vertebral angle. In the male, the curvature is more evenly dis- tributed over the whole length of th3 bone, and is altogether greater than in the female. Peculiarities of the Sacrum. This bone, iji some cases, consists of six pieces; occasionally the number js reduced to four. Sometimes the bodies of the first and second segments are not joined, or the laminae and spinous processes have not coalesced. Occa- sionally, the upper pair of transverse tubercles are not joined to the rest ofN the bone on one or both sides; and, lastly, the sacral canal may'be open for nearly the lower half of the bone, in consequence of the imperfect develop- ment of the lamiuce and spinous pro- cesses. The sacrum, also, varies con- siderably with respect to its degree of curvature. From the examination of a large number of skeletons, it would appear, that, in one set of cases, the anterior surface of this bone was nearly straight, the curvature, which was