MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 26o like a trefoil leaf, consisting of three divisions, or leaflets, separated from one another by sliglit indentations. The right leaflet is the largest; the middle one, directed towards the ensiform cartilage, the next in size; and the left, the smallest. In structure, it is composed of several planes of fibres, which intersect one another at various angles, and unite into straight or curved bundles, an arrangement which affords additional strength to the tendon. The Openings connected with the Diaphragm, are three large and several smaller apertures. The former are the aortic, oesophageal, and the opening for the veua cava. The aortic opening is the lowest and the most posterior of the three large aper- tures connected with this muscle. It is situated in the middle line, immediately in front of the bodies of the vertebras; and is, therefore, behind the Diaphragm, not in it. It is an osseo-aponeurotic aperture, formed by a tendinous arch thrown across the front of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the crus on one side to that on the other, and transmits the aorta, vena azygos major, thoracic duct, and occa- sionally the left sympathetic nerve. The oesophageal opening, elliptical in form, muscular in structure, and formed by the two crura, is placed above, and, at the same time, anterior, and a little to the left of the preceding. It transmits the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. The anterior margin of this aperture is occasionally tendinous, being formed by the margin of the central tendon. The opening for the vetia cava is the highest; it is quadrilateral in form, ten- dinous in structure, and placed at the junction of the right and middle leaflets of the central tendon, its margins being bounded by four bundles of tendinous fibres, which meet at right angles. The right crus transmits the sympathetic and the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves of the right side; the left crus, the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves of the left side, and the vena azygos minor. The Serous Membranes in relation with the Diaphragm, are four in number: three lining its upper or thoracic surface; one its abdominal. The three serous membranes on its upper surface are the pleura on either side, and the serous layer of the pericardium, which covers the middle portion of the tendinous centre. The serous membrane covering its under surface, is a portion of the general peritoneal membrane of the abdominal cavity. The Diaphragm is arched, being convex towards the chest, and concave to the abdomen. The right portion forms a complete arch from before backwards, being accurately moulded over the convex surface of the liver, and having resting upon it the concave base of the right lung. The left portion is arched from before backwards in a similar manner; but the arch is narrower in front, being encroached upon by the pericardium, and lower than the right, at its summit, by about three quarters of an inch. It supports the base of the left lung, and covers the great end of the stomach, the spleen, and left kidney. The central portion, which sup- ports the heart, is higher, in front at the sternum, and behind at the vertebrse, than the lateral portions; the reverse is the case in the parts further removed from the surface of the body. The height of the Diaphragm is constantly varying during respiration, being carried upwards or downwards from the average level; its height also varies according to the degree of distension of the stomach and intestines, and the size of the liver. After a forced expiration, the right arch is on a level, in front, with the fourth costal cartilage; at the side, with the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs; and behind, with the eighth rib: the left arch being usually from one to two ribs breadth below the level of the right one. In a forced inspiration, it descends from one to two inches; its slope would then be represented by a line drawn from the ensiform cartilage towards the tenth rib. Nerves. The Diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves. Actions. The action of the Diaphrngm modifies considerably the size of the chest, and the position of the thoracic and abdominal viscera. During a forced