ANTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION. 309 191.—Muscles of the Front of the Leg. \Ti6i the leg, and gives attachment, by its inner snr- face, to the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum muscles; but thinner behind, where it covers the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. Its inner surface gives off, on the outer side of the leg, two strong intermuscular septa, which enclose the Peronei muscles, and separate them from the muscles on the anterior and posterior tibial regions, and several smaller and more slender processes, which enclose the individual muscles in each region; at the same time a broad transverse intermuscular septum intervenes between the superficial and deep muscles in the posterior tibio-fibular region. Now remove the fascia by dividing it in the same direction as the integument, excepting opposite the ankle, where it should be left entire. Commence the removal of the fascia from below, opposite the tendons, and detach it in the line of direction of the muscular fibres. Muscles of the Leg. These may be subdivided into three groups: those on the anterior, those on the posterior, and those on the outer side. Anterior Tibio-Fibular Region. Tibialis Anticus. Extensor Proprius PoUicLs. Extensor Longus Digitorum. Peroneus Tertius. The Tibialis Anticus is situated on the outer .side of the tibia; it is thick and fleshy at its ijpper part, tendinou.s below. It arises from the outer tuberosity and upper two-thii-ds of the external surface of the shaft of the tibia; from the adjoining part of the interosseous membrane; from the deep fascia of the leg; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Extensor longus digitorum: the fibres pass vertically downwards, and terminate in a tendon, which is apparent on the anterior sur- face of the muscle at the lower third of the leg. After passing through the innei'most compart- ment of the anterior annular ligament, it is inserted into the inner and under surface of the internal cuneiform bone, and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. lielations. By its anterior surface^ with the deep fascia, and with the annular ligament. By its posterior surface, with the interosseous membrane, tibia, ankle joint, and inner side of the tarsus: this surface also overlaps the anterior tibial vessels {ind nerve in the upper part of the leg. By its iimer surface, xith tlie tibia. By its outer surface, with the Extensor longus digitorum, and I]xtensor proprius pol- licis, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve.