246 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. form a small muscle, which is inserted, by separate tendons, into the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae, the number varying from four to eight. It is intimately united with the Semispinalis dorsi, which lies beneath it. The Spinalis Colli is a small muscle, connecting together the spinous pro- cesses of the cervical vertebra, and analogous to the Spinalis dorsi in the dorsal region. It varies considerably in its size, and in its extent of attncluneut to the vertebrae, not only in different bodies, but on the two sides of the same body. It usually arises by fleshy or tendinous slips, varying from two to four in number, from the spinous processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, and occasionally from the first and second dorsal, and is inserted into the spinous pi'ocess of the axis, and occasionally into the spinous process of the two vcriebiiv; below it. This muscle has been found absent in five cases out of twcnty-fcr '. The Complexus is a broad thick muscle, situated at the upper a id h-M-k part of the neck, beneath the Spleuius, and internal to the Transvcr.>ali3 colli and Trachelo-mastoid. It arises, by a series of tendons, about seven in numb r, from the tips of the transverse processes of the upper three dorsal and scvcntli i rvical, and from the articular processes of the three cervical above this. The tendons uniting form a broad muscle, which passes obliquely upwards and inwaiiis, and ig inserted into the innermost depression between the two curved lines of tlie occi^ pital bone. This muscle, about its middle, is traversed by a trauiJVi .• ;o tendinous intersection. The Biventer Cervicis, is a small fasciculus, situated on the innei- side of the preceding, and in the majority of cases blended with it; it has received its name from having a tendon intervening between two fleshy bellies. It i- sometimes described as a separate muscle, arising, by from two to four tendinous slips, from the transverse processes of as many of the upper dorsal vertebrae, and inserted, on the inner side of the Complexus, into the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Relations. The muscles of the fourth layer are bound down to the vertebra; and ribs in the dorsal and lumbar regions by the lumbar fascia and vertebral aponeurosis. Their inner part covers the muscles of the fifth layer. In the neck they are in relation by their superficial surface, with the Trapezius and Splenius. By their deep surface, with the Semispinalis dorsi and colli and the Recti and Obliqui. The Biventer cervicis is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the ligamentum nuchae, and the Complexus from the Semispinalis colli by the profunda cervicis artery, the princeps cervicis, a branch of the occipital, and by the posterior cervical plexus of nerves. Nerves. The Erector spinae and its subdivisions in the dorsal region are supplied by the external posterior branches of the lumbar and dorsal nerves; the Cervicalis asceudens, Transversalis colli, Trachelo-mastoid, and Spinalis cervicis, by the external posterior branches of the cervical nerves; the Complexus, by the internal posterior branches of the cervical nerves, the suboccipital and great occipital. Fifth Later. Semispinalis Dorsi. Extensor Coccygis. Semispinalis Colli. Intertransversales. Multifidus Spinee. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major. Rotatores Spinae. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor. Supraspinales. Obliquus Capitis Superior. Interspinales. Obliquus Capitis Inferior. Dissection. Eemove the muscles of the i^receding layer by dividing and turning aside the Complexus ; then detaching the Spinahs and Longissimus dorsi from their attachments, dividing the Erector spinse at its connection below to the sacral and lumbar spines, and . turning it outwards. The muscles filling up the interval [between the spinous and transverse j)rocesses are then exposed. The Semispinalis muscles (fig. 161) connect the transverse and articular