599 LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. of the eyelids, and is reflected over the fore part of the sclerotic and cornea. In each of these situations, its structure presents some peculiarities. The palpebral portion of the conjimctiva is thick, opaque, highly vascular, and covered with numerous papillaj, which, in the disease called granular lids, become greatly hypertrophied. At the margin of the lids, it becomes continuous with the lining membrane of the ducts of the Meibomian glands, and, through the lachrymal canals, with the lining membrane of the lachrymal sac and nasal duct. At the outer angle of the upper lid, it may be traced along the lachi-ymal ducts into the lachrymal gland; and at the inner angle of the eye, it forms a semilunar fold, the j)lica semilunaris. The folds formed by the reflection of the conjunctiva from the lids on to the eye are called the superior and inferior palpebral folds, the former being the deeper of the two. Upon the sclerotic, the conjunctiva is loosely connected to the globe; it becomes thinner, loses its papillary structure, is transparent, and only slightly vascular in health. Upon the cornea, the con- junctiva is extremely thin and closely adherent, and no vessels can be traced into it in the adult in a healthy state. In the fatus, fine capillary loops extend, for some little distance forwards, into this membrane; but in the adult, they pass only to the circumference of the cornea. The caruncula lachrymalis is a small, reddish, conical-shaped body, situated at the inner canthus of the eye, and filling up the small triangular space in this situation, the lacus lachrymalis. It consists of a cluster of follicles similar in structure to the Meibomian, covered with mucous membrane, and is the source of the whitish secretion which constantly collects at the inner angle of the eye. A few slender hairs are attached to its surface. On the outer side of the caruncula is a slight semilunar fold of mucous membrane, the concavity of which is directed towards the cornea; it is called the plica semilunaris. Between its two layers is found a thin plate of cartilage. This structure is considered to be the rudiment of the third eyelid in birds, the membrana nictitans. Lachrymal Apparatus (fig. 310). The lachrymal apparatus consists of the lachrymal gland, which secretes the 31°-—The Lachrymal Apparatus. Eight Side. tears, and its excretory ducts, which convey the fluid to the surface of the eye. This fluid is carried away by the lachrymal canals into the lachrymal sac, and along the nasal duct into the cavity of the nose.