MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 230 The difference in the direction of the fibres of this muscle, and their separate origin from different parts of the hyoid bone, led Albinus and other anatomists to describe it as three muscles, under the names of the Basio-glossus, the Cerato- glossus, and the Chondro-glossus. Relations. By its external surface, with the Digastric, the Stylo-hyoid, Stylo- glossus, and Mylo-hyoid muscles, the gustatory and hypoglossal nerves, Wharton's duct, and the sublingual gland. By its deep surface, with the Genio-hyo-glossus, Lingualis, and Middle constrictor, the lingual vessels, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Lingualis is a longitundinal band of muscular fibres, situated on the under surface of the tongue, lying in the interval between the Hyo-glossus and the Genio-hyo-glossus, and extending from the base to the apex of the organ. Posteriorly, some of its fibres are lost in the base of the tongue, and others are occasionally attached to the hyoid bone. It blends with the fibres of tlie Stylo- glossus, in front of the Ilyo-glossus, and is continued forwards as far as the apex of the tongue. It is in relation, by its under surface, with the ranine artery. The Stylo-Glossus, the shortest and smallest of the three styloid muscles, arises from the anterior and outer side of the styloid process, near its centre, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, to which its fibres, in most cases, are attached by a thin aponeurosis. Passing downwards and forwards, so as to become nearly hori- zontal in its direction, it divides upon the side of the tongue into two portions : one longitudinal, which is inserted along the side of the tongue, blending with the fibres of the Lingualis, in front of tlie Hyo-glossus; the other oblique, which overlaps the Hyo-glossus muscle, and decussates with its fibres. Relations. By its external surface, from above downwards, with the parotid gland, the Intei'nal pterygoid muscle, the sublingual gland, the gustatory nerve, and the mucous membrane of the mouth. By its internal surface, with the tonsil, the Superior constrictor, and the Hyo-glossus muscle. The Palato-Glossus, or Constrictor Isthmi Faucium, although it is one of the muscles of the tongue, serving to draw its base upwards during the act of deglutition, is more nearly associated with the soft palate, both in its situation and function; it will, consequently, be described with that group of muscles. Nerves. The Palato-glossus is supplied by the palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion; the Lingualis, by the chorda tympaui; the remaining muscles of this group, by the hypoglossal. Actions. The movements of the tongue, although numerous and complicated, may be understood by carefully considering the direction of the fibres of its muscles. The Genio-lhjo-glossi, by means of their posterior and inferior fibres, draw upwards the hyoid bone, bringing it and the base of the tongue forwards, so as to protrude the^apex from the mouth. The anterior fibres will draw the tongue back into the mouth. The Avhole length of these two muscles acting along the middle line of the tongue will draw it downwards, so as to make it concave from before backwards, forming a channel along which fluids may pass towards the pharynx, as in sucking. Tlie Hyo-glossi muscles draw down the sides of the tongue, so as to render it convex from side to side. The Linguales, by drawing downwards the centre and apex of the tongue, render it convex from before backwards. The Palato-glossi draw the base of the tongue upwards, and the Stylo-glossi upwards and backwards. 5. Pharyngeal Region. Constrictor Inferior, Constrictor Superior. Constrictor Medius. Stylo-pharyngeus. Palato-pharyngeus,