412 ARTERIES. given off just below that portion. The termination of the profunda itaelf anastomoses most freely with the superior external ai'ticular. A long branch of anastomosis is also traced down from the internal iliac by means of the comes nervi ischiadic! of the sciatic which anastomoses on the popliteal nerves with branches from the popliteal and posterior tibial arteries. In this case the anastomosis had been too free, since the pulsation and growth of the aneurism recurred, and the patient died after ligature of the external iliac. There is an interesting preparation in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons, of a limb on which John Hunter had tied the femoral artery fifty years before the patient's death. The whole of the superficial femoral and popliteal artery seems to have been obhterated. The anastomosis by means of the comes nervi ischiadici, which is shown in Porta's plate, is distinctly seen; the external circumflex, and the termination of the pro- funda artery, seem to have been the chief channels of anastomosis; but the injection has not been a very successful one. Branches. The branches of the femoral artery are the Superficial epigastric. Superficial circumflex iliac. Superficial external pudic. Deep external pudic. {External circumflex. Internal circumflex. Three perforating. Muscular. Anastomotica magna. The superficial epigastric arises from the femoral, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, and, passing through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, ascends on to the abdomen, in the superficial fascia covering the External oblique muscle, nearly as high as the umbilicus. It distributes branches to the inguinal glands, the superficial fascia and integument, anastomosing with branches of the deep epigastric and internal mammary arteries. The superficial circumflex iliac, the smallest of the cutaneous branches, arises close to the preceding, and, piercing the fascia lata, runs outwards, parallel with Poupart's ligament, as far as the crest of the ilium, dividing into branches which supply the integument of the groin, the superficial fascia, and inguinal glands, anastomosing with the circumflex iliac, and with the gluteal and external cir- cumflex arteries. The superficial external pudic (superior), arises from the inner side of the femoral artery, close to the preceding vessels, and, after piercing the fascia lata at the saphenous opening, passes inwards, across the spermatic cord, to be distributed to the integument on the lower part of the abdomen, and of the penis and scrotum in the male, and to the labia in the female, anastomosing with branches of the internal pudic. The deep external pudic (inferior), more deeply seated than the preceding, passes inwai'ds on the Pectineus muscle, covered by the fascia lata, which it pierces opposite the ramus of the pubes, its branches being distributed, in the male, to the integument of the scrotum and perinseum, and in the female, to the labium, anastomosing with branches of the superflcial perinasal artery. The Profunda Femoris (deep femoral artery), nearly equals the size of the superficial femoral. It arises from the outer and back part of the femoral artery, from one to two inches below Poupart's ligament. It at first lies on the outer side of the superficial femoral, and then passes beneath it and the femoral vein to the inner side of the femur, and terminates at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch, which pierces the Adductor magnus, to be distributed to the flexor muscles, on the back of the thigh, anastomosing with branches of the popliteal and inferior perforating arteries. Relations. Behind, it lies first upon the Iliacus, and then on the Adductor brevis and Adductor magnus muscles. In front, it is separated from the femoral artery, above by the femoral and profunda veins, and below by the Adductor longus. On its outer side, the insertion of the Vastus internus separates it from the femur.