MUSCLES OF THE PEEIN^UM. 751 erection of the penis, as they are inserted into, and continuous with, the fascia of the penis, compressing the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. ^ The Erector Penis covers the unattached part of the crus penis. It is an elongated muscle, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the perinaeum. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the 390.—The Superficial Muscles and Vessels of the Perinseum. crus penis, from the surface of the crus, and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the pubes. From these points, fleshy fibres succeed, which end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the side and under surface of the crus penis. This muscle compresses the, crus' penis, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect. The Transversus Perincei is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perinaeal space. It arises by a small tendon from the inner side of the ascending ramus of the ischium, and, passing obliquely forwards and inwards, is inserted into the central tendinous point of the periuEeum. joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, the Sphincter ani behind, and the Accelerator urinse in front. Between the muscles just examined, a triangular space exists, bounded internally by the Accelerator uringe, externally by the Erector penis, and behind by the Transversus perinsei. The floor of this space is formed by the triangular ligament of the urethra (deep perineal fascia), and, running from behind forwards in it, are the superficial perinasal vessels and nerves, the transversus perinasi artery coursing along the posterior boundary of the space, on the Transversus perinaei muscle. In the lateral operation of lithotomy, the knife is carried obliquely across the back part of this space, downwards and outwards, into the ischio-rectal fossa, dividing the Transversus perinsei muscle and artery, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urinse, the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerve, and, moi'e posteriorly, the external haemorrhoidal vessels.