736 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA. adipose tissue. Opposite the internal ring, it is continued round the surface of the cord, forming a loose sheath for it. The epigastric artery bears a very important relation to the internal abdominal ring. This vessel lies between the transversalis fascia and peritoneum, and passes obliquely upwards and inwards, from its origin from the external iliac, to the margin of the sheath of the Rectus muscle. In this course, it lies along the lower and inner margin of the internal ring, and beneath the commencement of the spermatic cord, the vas deferens curving round it as it passes from the ring into the pelvis. The peritoneum, corresponding to the inner surface of the internal ring, pre- sents a well-marked depression, the depth of which varies in dilFerent subjects. A thin fibrous band is continued from it along the front of the cord, for a variable distance, and becomes ultimately lost. This is the remains of the pouch of peritoneum which, in the foetus, accompanies the cord and testis into the scrotum, the obliteration of which commences soon after birth. In some cases, the fibrous band can only be traced a short distance; but occasionally, it may be followed, as a fine cord, as far as the upper end of the tunica vaginalis. Sometimes the tube of peritoneum is only closed at intervals, and presents a sacculated appearance; or a single pouch may extend along the whole length of the cord, which may be closed above; or the pouch may be directly continuous with the peritoneum by an opening at its upper part. Inguinal Hernia. Inguinal hernia is that form of protrusion which makes its way through the abdomen in the inguinal region. There are two principal varieties of inguinal hernia: external or oblique, and internal or direct. External, or ohligue inguinal hernia, the most frequent of the two, takes the same course as the spermatic cord. It is called external, from the neck of the sac being on the outer or iliac side of the epigastric artery. Internal, or direct inguinal hernia, does not follow the same course as the cord, but protrudes through the abdominal wall on the inner or pubic side of the epigastric artery. Oblique Inguinal Hernia. In oblique inguinal hernia, the intestine escapes from the abdominal cavity at the internal ring, pushing before it a pouch of peritoneum, which forms the hernial sac. As it enters the inguinal canal, it receives an investment from the subserous areolar tissue, and is enclosed in the infundibuliform process of the transversalis fascia. In passing along the inguinal canal, it displaces upwards the arched fibres of the Transversalis and Internal oblique muscles, and is sur- rounded by the fibres of the Cremaster. It then passes along the front of the cord, and escapes from the inguinal canal at the external ring, receiving an investment from the intercolumnar fascia. Lastly, it descends into the scrotum, receiving coverings from the superficial fascia and the integument. The various coverings of this form of hernia, after it has passed through the external ring, are, from without inwards, the integument, superficial fascia, inter- columnar fascia, Cremaster muscle, infundibuliform fascia, subserous cellular tissue, and peritoneum. This form of hernia lies in front of the vessels of the spermatic cord, and seldom extends below the testis, on account of the intimate adhesibn of the coverings of the cord to the tunica vaginalis. The seat of stricture in oblique inguinal hernia, is either at the external ring, in the inguinal canal, caused by the fibres of the Internal oblique or Transversalis or at the internal ring, more frequently in the latter situation. If it is situated at the external ring, the division of a few fibres at one point of its circumference, is