423 PERONEAL. ' The Anterior Peroneal pierces the interosseous membrane, about two inclies dhove the outer malleolus, to reach the fore part of the leg, and, passing down beneath the Peroneus tertius to the outer ankle, ramifies on the front and outer side of the tarsus, aaiastomosing with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries. The nutritious artery of the tibia arises from the posterior tibial near its origin, and after supplying a few muscular branches, enters the nutritious canal of that bone, which it traverses obliquely from above downwards. This is the largest nutrient artery of bone in the body. The muscular branches of the posterior tibial are distributed to the Soleus and deep muscles along the back of the leg. The communicating branch to the peroneal runs transversely across the back of the tibia, about two inches above its lower end, passing beneath the Flexor longus poUicis. The internal calcanean consists of several large branches, which arise from the posterior tibial just before its division; they are distributed to the fat and integument behind the tendo Achillis and about the heel, and to the muscles on the inner side of the sole, anastomosing with the peroneal and internal malleolar arteries. The Internal Plantar Artery, much smaller than the external, passes forwards along the inner side of the foot. It is at first situated above the Abductor poUicis, and then between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum, both of which it supplies. At the base of the first metatarsal bone, where it has become much diminished in size, it passes along the inner border of the great toe, inosculating with its digital branches. The External Plantar Artery, much larger than the internal, passes obliquely outwards and forwards to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It then turns obliquely inwards to the interval between the bases of the first and second meta- tarsal bones, where it inosculates with the communicating branch from the dorsalis pedis artery, thus completing the plantar arch. As this artery passes outwards, it ■is at first placed between the os calcis and Abductor poUicis, and then betAveen the Flexor brevis digitorum and Flexor accessorius; and as it passes forwards to the base of the little toe, it lies more superficially between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Abductor minimi digiti, covered by the deep fascia and integument. The remaining portion of the vessel is deeply situated : it extends from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe to the back part of the first interosseous space, and forms the plantar arch; it is convex forwards, lies upon the Interossoi muscles, opposite the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones, and is covered by the Adductor pollicis, the flexor tendons of the toes, and the Lumbricales. Branches. The plantar arch, besides distributing numerous branches to the muscles, integument, and fasciaa in the sole, gives olF the following branches : Posterior perforating. Digital—Anterior perforating. The Posterior Perforating are three small branches, which ascend through the back part of the three outer interosseous spaces, between the heads of the Dorsal interossei muscles, and anastomose with the interosseous branches from the metatarsal artery. The Digital Branches are four in number, and supply the three outer toes and half the second toe. The first passes outwards from the outer side of the plantar arch, and is distributed to the outer side of the little toe, passing in its course beneath the Abductor and short Flexor muscles. The second, third, and fourth run for- wards along the metatarsal spaces, and on arriving at the clefts between the toes, divide into collateral branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the three outer toes and the outer side of the second. At the bifurcation of the toes, each digital ■ artery sends upwards, through the fore part of the corresponding metatarsal space, a small branch, which inosculates with the interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery. These are the anterior perforating branches.