196 ARTICULATIONS. III. Articulation between the Tibia and Fibula. The articulations between the tibia and fibula are effected by ligaments which connect both extremities, as well as the shafts of the bones. They may, con- sequently, be subdivided into three sets. i. The Superior Tibio-Fibular articula- tion. 2. The Middle Tibio-Fibular articulation. 3. The Inferior Tibio-Fibular articulation. I. Superior Tibio-Fibular Articulation. This articulation is an arthrodial joint. The contiguous surfaces of the bones present two fiat oval surfaces covered with cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments. Anterior Superior Tibio-Fibular. Posterior Superior Tibio-Fibular. The Anterior Superior Ligament (fig. 141) consists of two or three broad and flat bands, which pass obliquely upwards and inwards, from the head of the fibula to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The Posterior Superior Ligament is a single thick and broad band, which passes from the back part of the head of the fibula to the back part of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. It is covered by the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. A Synovial Membrane lines this articulation. It is occasionally continuous with that of the knee-joint at its upper and back part. 2. Middle Tibio-Fibular Articu;lation. An interosseous membrane extends between the contiguous margins of the tibia and fibula, aud separates the muscles on the front from those on the back of the leg. It consists of a thin aponeurotic lamina composed of oblique fibres, which pass between the interosseous ridges on the two bones. It is broader above than below, and presents at its upper part a large oval aperture for the passage of the anterior tibial artery forwards to the anterior aspect of the leg; and at its lower part, an opening for the passage of the anterior peroneal vessels. It is continuous below with the inferior interosseous ligament; and is perforated in numerous parts for the passage of small vessels. It is in relation in front with the Tibialis anticus. Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor proprius pollicis, Peroneus tertius, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve; behind, with the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus pollicis. 3. Inferior Tibio-Fibular Articulation. This articulation is formed by the rough convex surface at the inner side of the lower end of the fibula, connected with a similar rough surface on the outer side of the tibia. Below, to the extent of about two lines, these surfaces are smooth and covered with cartilage, which is continuous with that of the ankle- joint. The ligaments of this joint are— Inferior Interosseous. Posterior Inferior Tibio-fibular. Anterior Inferior Tibio-fibular. Transverse. The Inferior Interosseous Ligament consists of numerous short, strong fibrous bands, which pass between the contiguous rough surfaces of the tibia and fibula, and constitute the chief bond of union between the bones. This ligament is continuous, above, with the interosseous membrane. The Anterior Inferior Ligament (fig. 144) is a flat triangular band of fibres, broader below than above, which extends obliquely downwards aud outwards between the adjacent margins of the tibia and fibula on the front aspect of the articulation. It is in relation, in front, with the Peroneus tertius, the aponeurosis of the leg, and the integument; behind, with the inferior interosseous ligament; and lies in contact with the cartilage covering the astragalus. The Posterior Inferior Ligament, smaller than the preceding, is disposed in a similar manner on the postei'ior surface of the articulation.