743 CRURAL CANAL; FEMORAL RING. Gimherna(s Ligament (fig. 385) is that part of the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle which is reflected downwards and outwards, to be inserted into the pectineal line of the os pubis. It is about an inch in length, larger in the male than in the female, almost horizontal in direction in the erect posture, and of a triangular foi-m, the base directed outwards. Its base, or outer margin, is concave, thin and sharp, lies in contact with the crural sheath, and is blended with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Its apex corresponds to the spine of the pubes. Its posterior margin is attached to the pectineal line. Its anterior margin is con- tinuous with Poupart's ligament. Crural Sheath. If Poupart's ligament is divided, the femoral or crural sheath may be demonstrated as a continuation downwards of the fascias that line the abdomen, the transversalis fascia passing down in front of the femoral vessels, and the iliac fascia descending behind them; these fasciae are directly continuous on the iliac side of the femoral artery, but a small space exists between the femoral vein and the point where they are continuous on the pubic side of that vessel, which constitutes the femoral or crural canal. The femoral sheath is closely adherent to the contained vessels about an inch below the saphenous opening, becoming blended with the areolar sheath of the vessels, but opposite Poupart's ligament it is much larger than is required to contain them; hence the funnel- shaped form which it presents. The outer border of the sheath is perforated by the genito-crural nerve. Its inner border is pierced by the internal saphenous vein, and numerous lymphatic vessels. In front, it is covered Jby the iliac portion of the fascia lata; and behind it is the pubic portion of the same fascia. Deep Crural Arch. Passing across the front of the crural sheath, and closely connected with it, is a thickened band of fibres, called the deep crural arch. It is apparently a thickening of the fascia transversalis, joined externally to the centre of Poupart's ligament, and arching across the front of the crural sheath, to be inserted by a broad attachment into the pectineal line, behind the conjoined tendon. In some subjects, this structure is not very prominently marked, and not unfrequently it is altogether wanting. If the anterior wall of the sheath is removed, the femoral artery and vein are seen lying side by side, a thin septum separating the two vessels, and another septum separates the vein from the inner wall of the sheath, the septa are stretched between the anterior and posterior walls of the sheath, so that each vessel is enclosed in a separate compartment. The interval left between the vein and the inner wall of the sheath is not filled up by any structure, excepting a little loose areolar tissue, a few lymphatic vessels, and occasionally a lymphatic gland; this is the femoral or crural canal, through which a portion of intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural canal is the narrow interval between the femoral vein and the inner wall of the crural sheath. It exists only when the sheath has been separated from the vein by dissection, or by the pressure of a hernia or tumour. Its length is from a quarter to half an inch, and it extends from Gimbernat's ligament to the upper part of the saphenous opening. Its anterior wall is very narrow, and formed by the fascia transversalis, Poupart's ligament, and the falciform process of the fascia lata. Its posterior wall is formed by the iliac fascia and the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Its outer wall is formed by the fibrous septum covering the inner side of the femoral vein. Its inner wall is formed by the junction of the transversalis and iliac fasciae, which forms the inner side of the femoral sheath, and covers the outer edge of Gimbernat's ligament. This canal has two orifices: a lower one, the saphenous opening, closed by the cribriform fascia; an upper one, the femoral or crural ring, closed by the septum crurale. The femoral or crural ring (fig. 385) is the upper opening of the femoral canal,