77 THE ORBITS. by the alveolar processes, containing the teeth of the upper and lower ja.w. Beneath the alveolar arch of the lower jaw is the mental foramen for the passage of the mental nerve and artery, the external oblique line, and at the lower border of the bone, at the point of junction of the body with the ramus, a shallow groove for the passage of the facial artery. The Orbits. The Orbits (fig. 65) are two quadrilateral hollow cones, situated at the upper and anterior part of the face, their bases being directed forwards and outwards, and their apices backwards and inwards. Each orbit is formed of seven bones, the frontal, sphenoid, ethmoid, superior maxillary, malar, lachrymal, and palate ; but three of these, the frontal, ethmoid, and sphenoid, enter into the formation of both orbits, so that the two cavities are formed of eleven bones only. Each cavity presents for examination, a roof, a floor, an inner and an outer wall, a circumference or base, and an apex. The Roof is concave, directed downwards and forwards, and formed in front by the orbital plate of the frontal; behind, by the lesser wing of the sphenoid. This surface presents internally the depres- sion for the fibro-cartilaginous pulley of the Superior oblique muscle ; externally, the depression for the lachrymal gland, and posteriorly, the suture connecting the frontal and lesser wing of the sphenoid. The Floor is nearly flat, and of less extent than the roof; it is formed chiefly by the orbital process of the superior maxillary ; in front, to a small extent, by the orbital process of the malar, and behind, by the oi'bital surface of the palate. This surface presents at its anterior an internal part, just external to the lachry- mal canal, a depression for the attachment of the Inferior oblique muscle ; exter- nally, the suture between the malar and superior maxillary bones ; near its middle, the infraorbital groove; and posteriorly, the suture between the maxillary and palate bones. The Inner Wall is flattened, and formed from before backwards by the nasal process of the superior maxillary, the lachrymal, os planum of the ethmoid, and a small part of the body of the sphenoid. This surface presents the lachrymal groove, and crest of the lachrymal bone, and the sutures connecting the ethmoid with the lachrymal bone in front, and the sphenoid behind. The Outer TVall is formed in front by the orbital process of the malar bone ; behind, by the orbital plate of the sphenoid. On it are seen the orifices of one or two malar canals, and the suture connecting the sphenoid and malar bones. Angles. The superior external angle is formed by the junction of the upper and outer walls ; it presents, from before backwards, the suture connecting the frontal with the malar in front, and with the orbital plate of the sjihenoid behind; quite posteriorly is the foramen lacerum anterius, or sphenoidal fissure, which transmits the third, fourth, the ophthalmic division of the fifth and the sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. The superior internal angle is formed by the junction of the upper and inner wall, and presents thg suture connecting the frontal with the lachrymal in front, and with the ethmoid behind. This suture is perforated by two foramina, the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, the former transmitting the anterior ethnioidal artery and nasal nerve, the latter the posterior ethmoidal artery and vein. The inferior external angle, formed by the junction of the outer wall and floor, presents the spheno-maxillary fissure, which transmits the infraorbital vessels and nerve, and the ascending branches from the spheno-palatir>e ganglion. The inferior internal angle is formed by the union of the lachrymal and OS planum of the ethmoid, with the superior maxillary and palate bones. The circumference, or base, of the orbit, quadrilateral in form, is bounded above by the supraorbital arch; below, by the anterior border of the orbital plate of the malar, superior maxillary, and lachrymal bones; externally, by the external angular process of the frontal and the malar bone; internally, by the internal angular process of the frontal, and the nasal pi'ocess of the superior maxillary. The circumference