665 HEART; RIGHT AURICLE. Openings. The superior vena cava returns the blood from the upper half of the body, and opens into the upper and front part of the auricle, the direction of its orifice being downwards and forwards. The inferior vena cava, larger than the superior, returns the blood from the lower half of the body, and opens into the lowest part of the auricle, near the septum, the direction of its orifice being upwards and inwards. The direction of a current of blood through the superior vena cava would consequently be towards the auriculo-ventricular orifice; whilst the direction of the blood through the inferior cava, would be towards the auricular septum. This is the normal direc- tion of the two currents in foetal life. The tuberculum Loweri is a small projection on the right wall of the auricle, between the two cavse. This is most distinct in the hearts of quadrupeds: in man, it is scarcely visible. It was supposed by Lower, to direct the blood from the superior cava towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. The coronary sinus opens into the auricle, between the inferior vena cava, and the auriculo-ventricular opening. It returns the blood from the substance of the heart, and is protected by a semicircular fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, the coronary valve. The sinus, before entering the auricle, is considerably dilated. Its wall is partly muscular, and, at its junction with the great coronary vein, is somewhat constricted, and furnished with a valve, consisting of two unequal segments. The foramina Thebesii are numerous minute apertures, the mouths of small veins {vence cordis minimce), which open on various parts of the inner surface of the auricle. They return the blood directly from the muscular substance of the heart. Some of these foramina are minute depressions in the walls of the heart, presenting a closed extremity. The auriculo-ventricular opening is the large oval aperture of communication between the auricle and ventricle, to be presently described. Valves. The Eustachian valve is situated between the anterior margin of the inferior cava and the auriculo-ventricular orifice. It is semilunar in form, its convex margin being attached to the wall of the vein; its concave margin, which is free, terminating in two cornua, of which the left is attached to the anterior edge of the annulus ovalis ; the right being lost on the wall of the auricle. The valve is formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane of the auricle, containing a few muscular fibres. In the fostus, this valve is of large size, and serves to direct the blood from the inferior cava, through the foramen ovale, into the left auricle. In the adult, it is occasionally persistent, and may assist in preventing the reflux of blood into the inferior cava: more commonly, it is small, and its free margin presents a cribriform, or filamentous appearance; occasionally, it is alto- gether wanting. The coronary valve is a semicircular fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, protecting the orifice of the coronary sinus. It prevents the regurgitation of blood into the sinus during the contraction of the auricle. This valve is occasionally double. The fossa ovalis is an oval depression, corresponding to the situation of the foramen ovale in the foetus. It is situated at the lower part of the septum auri- cularum, above the orifice of the inferior vena cava. The annulus ovalis is the prominent oval margin of the foramen ovale. It is most distinct above, and at the sides; below it is deficient. A small slit-like valvular opening is occasionally found, at the upper margin of the fossa ovalis, which leads upwards, beneath the annulus, into the left auricle, it is the remains of the aperture between the two auricles in the foetus. The musculi pectinati are small, prominent muscular columns, which run across the inner surface of the appendix auriculas, and adjoining portion of the wall of the sinus. They have received the name, pectinati, from the fancied resemblance they bear to the teeth of a comb.