453 LYMPHATICS. The lymphatics are supplied by nutrient vessels, which are distributed to their outer and middle coats; but no nerves have at present been traced into them. The lymphatics are very generally provided with valves, which assist materially in effecting the circulation of the fluid they contain. These valves are formed of a thin layer of fibrous tissue, lined on both surfaces with scaly epithelium. Their form is semilunar; they are attached by their convex edge to the sides of the vessel, the concave edge being free, and directed along the course of the contained current. Usually, two such valves, of equal size, are found opposite one another; but occasionally exceptions occur, especially at or near the anastomoses of lymphatic vessels. Thus one valve may be of very rudimentary size, and the other increased in proportion. In other cases, the semilunar flaps have been found directed trans- versely across the vessel, instead of obliquely, so as to impede the circulation in both directions, but not to completely arrest it in either; or the semilunar flaps, taking the same direction, have been found united on one side, so as to form, by their union, a transverse septum, having a partial transverse slit; and sometimes the flap is constituted of a circular fold, attached to the entire circumference of the vessel, and having in its centre a circular or elliptical aperture, like the ilio- caecal valve. The valves in the lymphatic vessels are placed at much shorter intervals than in the veiiis. They are most numerous near the lymphatic glands, and they are found more frequently in the lymphatics of the neck and upper extremity, than in the lower. The wall of the lymphatics, immediately above the point of attach- ment of each segment of a valve, is expanded into a pouch or sinus, which gives to these vessels, when distended, the knotted or beaded appearance which they present. Valves are wanting in the vessels composing the plexiform net-work in which the lymphatics originate. There is no satisfactory evidence to prove that any natural communication exists between the lymphatics of glandular organs and their ducts, or between the lymphatics and the capillary vessels. The lymphatic or absoi-bent glands, named also conglobate glands, are small solid glandular bodies, situated in the course of the lymphatic and lacteal vessels. They are found in the neck and on the external parts of the head; in the upper extremity, in the axilla and front of the elbow; in the lower extremity, in the groin and popliteal space. In the abdomen, they are found in large numbers in the mesentery, and along the side of the aorta, vena cava, and iliac vessels; and in the thorax, in the anterior and posterior mediastina. They are somewhat flattened, and of a round or oval form. In size, they vary from a hemp-seed to an almond, and their colour, on section, is of a pinkish grey tint, excepting the bronchial glands, which in the adult are mottled with black. Each gland has a layer of cellular tissue investing it, forming a capsule, from which prolongations dip into its substance forming partitions. The lymphatic and lacteal vessels pass through these bodies in their passage to the thoracic and lymphatic ducts. A lymphatic or lacteal vessel, previous to entering a gland, divides into several small branches, which are named afferent vessels. As they enter, their external coat becomes continuous with the capsule of the gland, and the vessels, much thinned, and consisting only of their internal coat and epithelium, pass into the gland, where, subdividing, they pursue a tortuous course; and finally anastomose, so as to form a plexus. The vessels composing this plexus unite to form two or more efferent vessels, which, on emerging from the gland, are again invested with their external coat. Within the lymphatic vessels, as supposed by Kijlliker, Goodsir, and others, or lying between them, grouped in cells, like the acini of secreting glands, are a large number of minute dotted corpuscles. They are spheroidal, or disk-shaped pellucid particles, about -^-^-q-q of an inch in diameter having two or three minute dark particles in their interior. It is probable that they play an important part in the more complete elaboration of the lymph or chyle traversing the glands. Capillary vessels are abundantly distributed on the walls of the lymphatics in the glands.