132 OSTEOLOGY. 105.—Diagram shewing the Structure of the Neck of the Femur. (Ward.) of the shaft, and the articular extremities more especially, consist of cancellated tissue invested by a thin compact layer. The arrangement of the cancelli in the ends of the femur is remarkable. In the upper end (fig. 105), they run in parallel columns a a from the summit of the head to the thick under wall of the neck, while a series of transverse fibres h h cross the parallel columns, and connect them to the thin upper wall of the neck. Another series of plates c c. springs from the whole interior of the cylinder above the lesser trochanter; passing upwards, they converge to form a series of arches beneath the upper wall of the neck, near its junction with the great trochanter. This structure is admirably adapted to sustain, with the greatest mechanical advantage, concussion or weight trans- mitted from above, and serves an im- portant office in strengthening a part especially liable to fracture. In the lower end, the cancelli spring on all sides from the inner surface of the cylinder, and descend in a perpendicular direction , to the articular surface, the cancelli being strongest, and having a more accurately perpendicular course, above the condyles. the OS innominatum, tibia, and patella. 106.—Plan of the Development of the Femur. By 5 Centres. Apjiears at 0yr h'^Jiafialoiit 18'.'' •/rf^ 1* enrjatcnd nfl'^i/V Shaft alout !£'!• Apjiears 73 -14-'!"^ T JoinsSImJt aiouttS"} tj: Articulations. With three bones: Development (fig. io6). The femur is developed by jive centres; one for the shaft, one for each ex- tremity, and one for each trochanter. Of all the long bones, it is the first to show traces of ossification: this first commences in the shaft, at about the fifth week of foetal life, the centres of ossification in the epiphyses appearing in the follow- ing order: First, in the lower end of the bone, at the ninth month of foetal life; from this the condyles and tuberosities are formed; in the head, at the end of the first year after birth; in the great trochanter, during the fourth year; and in the lesser trochanter, between the thir- teenth and fourteenth. The order in which the epiphyses are joined to the shaft, is the direct reverse of their appearance; their junction does not commence until after puberty, the lesser trochanter being first joined, then the greater, then the head, and, lastly, the inferior extremity (the first in which ossi- fication commenced), which is not united until the twentieth year. Attachment of Muscles. To the great trochanter: the Grluteus medius. Gluteus minimus, Pyriformis, Obturator internus. Obturator externus, Gemellus superior. (fiie.ta.1) Join^ ShcujlajiZO'\f.