FEMORAL. 411 or aneurism of the arteries of the leg, of the popliteal or femoral; and the vessels may be exposed and tied in any part of its course. The great depth of this vessel in the lower part of its coui-se, its close connection with important structures, and the density of its sheath, render the operation in this situation one of much greater difficulty than the application of a ligature at its upper part, whei-e it is more superficial. Ligature of the femoral artery, within two inches of its origin, is usually considered very unsafe, on account of the connection of large branches with it, the epigastric and circumflex iliac arising just above its origin ; the profunda, from one to two inches below, occasionally, also, one of the circumflex arteries arises from the vessel in the interspace between these. Tlie profunda sometimes arises higher than the point above mentioned, and rarely between two or three inches (in one case four), below Poupart's ligament. It would appear, then, that the most favourable situation for the application of a ligature to this vessel, is between four and five inches from its point of origin. In order to expose the artery in this situation, an incision, between two and three inches long, should be made in the course of the vessel, the patient lying in the recumbent position, ■with the limb slightly flexed and abducted. A large vein is frequently met with, passing in the course of the artery to join the saphena ; this must be avoided, and the fascia lata having been cautiously divided, and the Sartorius exposed, this muscle must be drawn outwards, in order to fully expose the sheath of the vessels. This finger being introduced into the wound, and the pulsation of the artery felt, the sheath should be divided over it to a sufficient extent to allow of the introduction of the hgature, but no further; otherwise the nutrition of the coats of the vessel may be interfered with, or muscular branches which arise from the vessel at irregular intervals may be divided. In this part of the operation, a small nerve which crosses the sheath should be avoided. The aneurism needle must be carefully introduced and kept close to the artery, to avoid the femoral vein, which lies behind the vessel in this part of its course. To expose the artery in the middle of the thigh, an incision should be made through the integument, between three and four inches in length, over the inner margin of the Sartorius, taking care to avoid the internal saphenous vein, the situation of which may be previously known by compressing it higher up in the thigh. The fascia lata having been divided, and the Sartorius muscle exposed, it should be drawn outwards, when the strong fascia which is stretched across from the Adductors to the Vastus internus, will be ex- posed, and must be freely divided; the sheath of the vessels is now seen, and must be ojDened, and the artery secured by passing the aneurism needle between the vein and artery, in the direction from within outwards. The femoral vein in this situation lies on the outer side of the artery, the long saphenous nerve on its anterior and outer side. It has been seen that the femoral artery occasionally divides into two trunks, below the origin of the profunda. If, in the operation for trying the femoral, two vessels are met with, the surgeon should alternately compress each, in order to ascertain which vessel is connected with the aneurismal tumour, or with the bleeding from the wound, and that one only tied which controls it. If, however, it is ueccessary to compress both vessels before the circulation in the tumour is con1;rolled, both should be tied, as it would be probable that they became re-united, as is mentioned above. Collateral Circulation. The principal agents in carrying on the collateral circulation after ligature of the femoral artery are according to Sir A. Cooper, as follows.* ' The arteria profunda formed the new channel for the blood.' ' The first artery sent off passed down close to the back of the thigh bone, and entei-ed the two superior articular branches of the popliteal artery.' ' The second new large vessel arising from the profunda at the same part with the former, passed down by the inner side of the Biceps muscle, to an artery of the popliteal which was distributed to the Gastrocnemius muscle; whilst a third artery dividing into several branches passed down with the sciatic nerve behind the knee-joint, and some of its branches united themselves with the inferior articular arteries of the popliteal, with some recurrent branches of those arteries, with arteries passing to the Gastrocuemii, and, lastly, with the origin of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries.' ' It appears then that it is those branches of the profunda which accompany the sciatic nerve, that are the principal supporters of the new circulation.' In Porta's workt (Tab: xii. xiii.) is a good representation of the collateral circulation after the ligature of the femoral artery. The patient had survived the operation three years. The lower part of the artery is, at least, as large as the upper; about two inches of the vessel appear to have been obliterated. The external and internal circumflex arteries are seen anastomosing by a great number of branches with the lower branches of the femoral (muscular and anastomotica magna), and with the articular branches of the poph- teal. The branches from the external circumflex are extremely large and numerous; one very distinct anastomosis can be traced between this artery on the outside, and the anas- tomotica magna on the inside, through the intervention of the superior external articular ai'tery with which they both anastomose, and blood reaches even the anterior tibial recur- rent from the external circumflex by means of an anastomosis with the same external articular artery. The perforating branches of the profunda are also seen bringing blood round the obliten'.ted portion of the artery into long branches (muscular) which have been * Med. Chir. Trans., vol. li. 1811. t Alterazioni patologiche delle Arterie.