7 GENERAL ANATOMY OF BONE. development of new cells. The next step in this process is the ossification of the intercellular substance, and of the cells composing the cartilage. Ossification commences in the interior of the cartilage at certain points, called points ov centres of ossification^ from which it extends into the surrounding substance. This mode of ossification is called intra-cartilaginous, to distinguish it from that which takes place in a membranous tissue, quite diflfereut in its nature from cartilage. The latter mode of ossification is called intra-membranous. Examples of the latter are seen, according to Kolliker, in—the upper half of the expanded portion of the occipital bone; the parietal and frontal bones; the squamous portion and tympanic ring of the temporal bone; the internal lamella of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid; the cornua sphenoidalia; in all the bones of the face, excepting the inferior turbinated; and, according to Bruck, in the clavicle. The period of ossification is different in dilFerent bones. The order of succession may be thus arranged (Kolliker):— In the second month, first, in the clavicle, and lower jaw (fifth to seventh week); then, in the vertebra?, humerus, femur, the ribs, and the cartilaginous portion of the occipital bone. At the end of the second, and commencement of the third month, the frontal bone, the scapula, the bones of the fore-arm and leg, and upper jaw, make their appearance. In the third month, the remaining cranial bones, with few excej)tions, the me- tatarsus, the metacarpus, and the phalanges, begin to ossify. In the fourth month, the iliac bones, and the ossicula auditus. In the fourth or fifth month, the ethmoid, sternum, os pubis, and ischium. From the sixth to the seventh month, the calcaneum, and astragalus. In the eighth month, the hyoid bone. At birth, the epiphyses of all cylindrical bones, with the exception of those of the femur, and occasionally of the tibia; all the bones of the carpus; the five smaller ones of the tarsus; the patella; the sesamoid bones; and the coccyx,* are still unossified. From the time of birth to the fourth year, osseous nuclei make their appearance also in these parts. At twelve years, in the pisiform bone. The number of ossific centres is different in different bones. In most of the short bones, ossification commences by a single point in the centre, and proceeds towards the circumference. In the long bones, there is a central point of ossification for the shaft or diaphysis; and one or more for each extremity, the epiphyses. That for the shaft is the first to appear; those for the extremities appear later. For a long period after birth, a thin layer of unossified cartilage remains between the diaphysis and epiphyses, until their growth is finally completed, their junction taking place either at the period of puberty, or towards the end of the period of growth. The union of the epiphyses with the shaft takes place in the inverse order to that in which their ossification began; for, although ossification commences latest in those epiphyses towards which the nutritious artery in the several bones is directed, they become joined to the diaphyses sooner than the epiphyses at the opposite extremity, with the exception of the fibula, the lower end of which commences to ossify at an earlier period than the upper end, but, nevertheless, is joined to the shaft earliest. The order in which the epiphyses become united to the shaft, appears to be regulated by the direction of the nutritious artery of the bone. Thus the arteries «f the bones of the arm and fore-arm are directed towards the elbow, and the epiphyses of the bones forming this joint become united to the shaft before those at the opposite extremity. In the lower extremities, on the contrary, the nutritious arteries pass in a direction from the knee; that is, upwards in the femur, downwards in the tibia and fibula; and in them it is observed, that the upper epiphysis of the femur, and the lower epiphyses of the tibia and fibula, become first united to the shaft. Where there is only one epiphysis, the medullary artery is directed towards that * On the development of the coccyx, vide infra.