ARTERIES. 38o < 1 third of its course, it lies between the Supinator longus and the Pronator radii teres; in its lower two thirds, between the tendons of the Supinator longus and the Flexor carpi radialis. The radial nerve lies along the outer side of the artery, in the middle third of its course; and some filaments of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, after piercing the deep fascia, run along the lower part of the artery as it winds round the wrist. The vessel is accompanied by venaj comites throughout its whole course. Plan of the Relations op the Radial Artery in the Forearm. At the tvrist, as it winds round the outer side of the carpus, from the styloid process to the first interosseous space, it lies upon the external lateral ligament, being covered by the extensor tendons of the thumb, subcutaneous veins, some filaments of the radial nerve, and the integument. It is accompanied by two veins, and a filament of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. In the hand, it passes from the upper end of the first interosseous space, between the heads of the Abductor iudicis, transversely across the palm, to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it inosculates with the communicating branch from the ulnar artery, forming the deep ulnar arch. It lies upon the carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones and the Interossei muscles, being covered by the flexor tendons of the fingers, the Lumbricales, the muscles of the little finger, and the Flexor brevis poUicis, and is accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. Peculiarities. The origin of the radial artery varies in the proportion nearly of one in eight cases. In one case the origin was lower than usual. In the other cases, the upper part of the brachial was a more frequent source of origin than the axillary. The varia- tions in the position of this vessel in the arm, and at the bend of the elbow, have been already mentioned. In the forearm it deviates less frequently from its position than the ulnar. It has been found lying over the fascia, instead of beneath it. It has also been observed on the surface of the Supinator longus, instead of along its inner border: and in turning round the wrist, it has been seen lying over, instead of beneath, the Extensor tendons. Surgical Anatomy, The operation of tying the radial artery is required in cases of wounds either of its trunk, or of some of its branches, or for aneurism: and it will be observed, that the vessel may be easily exposed in any part of its course through the forearm. _ The operation in the middle or inferior third of the forearm is easily performed; but in the upper third, near the elbow, it is attended with some difficulty, from the greater depth of the vessel, and from its being overlapped by the Supinator longus and Pronator teres muscles. To tie the artery in the upper third, an incision three inches in length should be made through the integument, from the bend of the elbow obliquely downwards and outwards, on the radial side of the forearm, avoiding the branches of the median vein; the fascia of the arm being divided, and the Supinator longus drawn a little outwards, the artery will be exposed; The venae comites should be carefully separated from the vessel, and the ligature passed from the radial to the ulnar side. In front. Integument—superficial and deep Supinator longus. fasciae. Inner side. Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radialis. Outer side. Supinator longus. Radial nerve (middle third). Be]and. Tendon of Biceps. Supinator brevis. Pronator radii teres. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor longus poUicis Pi onator quadratus. Radius.