47 DEVELOPMENT OF THE CRANIUM. The inner surface of each lateral mass forms part of the outer wall of the nasal •fossa of the corresponding side. It is formed of a thin lamella of bone, which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and terminates below in a free convoluted margin, the middle turbinated bone. The whole of this surface is rough, and marked above by numerous grooves which run nearly vertically downwards from the cribriform plate; they lodge branches of the olfactory nerve, which are distributed on the mucous membrane, covering the bone. The back part of this surface is subdivided by a narrow oblique fissure, the superior meatus of the nose, bounded above by a thin curved plate of bone—the superior turbinated bone. By means of an orifice at the upper part of this fissure, the posterior ethmoidal cells open into the nose. Below, and in front of the superior meatus, is seen the convex surface of another thin convoluted plate of bone—the middle turbinated bone. It extends along the Avhole length of the inner surface of each lateral mass; its lower margin is free and thick, and its concavity, directed outwards, assists in forming the middle meatus. It is by a large orifice at the upper and front part of the middle meatus, that the anterior ethmoidal cells, and through them the frontal sinuses, communicate with the nose, by means of a funnel-shaped canal, the infundil)ulum. The cellular cavities of each lateral mass, thus walled in by the os planum on the outer side, and by the other bones already mentioned, are divided by a thin transverse bony partition into two sets, which do not communicate with each other; they are termed the anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells, or sinuses; the former, smaller, but more numerous, communicate with the frontal sinuses above,^ and the middle meatus below, by means of a long flexuous cellular canal, the infundihulum; the posterior, larger but less numerous, open into the superior meatus, and communicate (occasion^iUy) with the sphenoidal sinuses. Development. By three centres; one for the perpendicular lamella, and one for each lateral mass. The lateral masses are first developed, ossific granules making their first appear- ance in the os planum between the fourth and fifth months of foetal life, and afterwards in the spongy bones. At birth, the bone consists of the two lateral masses, which are small and ill-developed; but when the perpendicular and hori- zontal plates begin to ossify, as they do about the first year afterbirth, the lateral masses become joined to the cribriform plate. The formation and increase in the ethmoidal cells, which complete the bone, take place about the fifth or sixth year. Articulations. With fifteen bones; the sphenoid, two sphenoidal turbinated, the frontal, and eleven of the face—the two nasal, two superior maxillary, two lachrymal, two palate, two inferior turbinated, and the Vomer. Development of the Cranium. The development of the cranium commences at a very early period, on account of the importance of the organ it is intended to protect. In its most rudirneatary state, it con- sists of a thin membranous capsule, enclosing the cerebrum, and accurately moulded upon its surface. This capsule is placed extei-nal to the dura mater, and in close contact with it; its walls are continuous with the canal for the sspinal cord, and the choi'da dorsalis, or primitive part of the vertebral column, is continued forwards, from the spine, along the base, to its fore part, where it terminates in a tapering point. The next step in the process of development is the formation of curtilage. This is deposited in the base of the skull.