199 OF THE TARSUS. digitoi-um, posterior tibial vessels, posterior tibial nerve, Flexor longus pollicis, and, in the groove behind the external malleolus, the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and peroneal. The Nerves are derived from the anterior tibial. Actions. The movements of the joint are limited to flexion and extension There is no lateral motion. V. Articulations of the Tarsus. These articulations may be subdivided into three sets : i. The articulation of the first row of tarsal bones. 2. The articulation of the second row of tarsal bones. 3. The'articulations of the two rows with each other. I. Articulation of the First Row of Tarsal Bones. The articulations between the astragalus and os calcis are two in number— anterior and posterior. They are arthrodial joints. The bones are connected together by three ligaments :— External Calcaneo-Astragaloid. Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid. Interosseous. The External Calcaneo-Astragaloid Ligament (fig. 144) is a short, strong fasciculus, passing from the outer surface of the astragalus, immediately beneath its external malleolar facet, to the outer edge of the os calcis. It is placed in front of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, with the fibres of which it is parallel. The Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid Ligament (^g. 143) connects the posterior extremity of the astragalus with the upper contiguous surface of the os calcis ; it is a short narrow band, the fibres of which are directed obliquely backwards and inwards. The Interosseous Ligajnent forms the chief bond of union between the bones. It consists of numerous vertical and oblique fibres, attached, by one extremity, to the groove between the articulating surfaces of the astragalus; by the other, to a coi-responding depression on the upper surface of the os calcis. It is very thick and strong, being at least an inch in breadth from side to side, and serves to unite the os calcis and astragalus solidly together. The Synovial Membranes (fig. 146) are two in number : one for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation ; a second for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint. The latter synovial membrane is continued forwards between the contiguous surfaces of the astralagus and scaphoid bones. 2. Articulations of the Second Row of Tarsal Bones. The articulations between the scaphoid, cuboid, and three cuneiform are effected by the following ligaments :— Dorsal. Plantar. Intei'osseous. The Dorsal Ligaments are small bands of parallel fibres, which pass from each bone to the neighbouring bones with which it articulates. The Plantar Ligaments have the same arrangement on the plantar surface. The Interosseous Ligaments are four in number. They consist of strong trans- verse fibres, which pass between the rough non-articular surfaces of adjoining bones. There is one between the sides of the scaphoid and cuboid ; a second between the internal and middle cuneiform bones ; a third between the middle and external cuneiform; and a fourth between the external cuneiform and cuboid. The scaphoid and cuboid, when in contact, present each a small articulating facet, covered with