254 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. them, and form an important guide in separating them. The muscle should then be thrown forwards towards the linea alba. The Transversalis muscle (fig. 165), so called from the direction of its fibres, is the most internal flat muscle of the abdomen, being placed immediately beneath the Internal Oblique. It arises by fleshy fibres from the outer third of Pouparts' ligament, from the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, its anterior three fourths, from the inner surface of the cartilages of the six lower ribs, interdigitating with the Diaphragm, and by a broad aponeurosis from the spinous and transverse pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebriB. The lower fibres curve downwards, and are inserted, together with those of the Internal oblique, into the crest of the os pubis and pectineal line, forming what was before mentioned as the conjoined tendon of these muscles. Throughout the rest of its extent the fibres pass horizontally inwards, and near the outer margin of the Rectus, terminate in an aponeurosis, which is inserted into the linea alba; its upper three-fourths passing behind the Rectus muscle, blending with the posterior lamella of the Internal oblique; its lower fourth passing in front of the Rectus. Relations. By its external surface, with the Internal oblique, the inner surface of the lower ribs, and Internal intercostal muscles. Its inner surface is lined by the fascia transversalis, which separates it from the peritoneum. Its lower border forms the upper boundary of the spermatic canal. Lumbar Fascia (fig. 166). The vertebral aponeurosis of the Transversalis divides into three layers, an anterior, very thin, which is attached to the front part of the apices of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra, and, above, to the lower margin of the last rib, where it forms the ligamentum arcuatum externum; a middle layer, much strongei", which is attached to the apices of the transverse processes; and a posterior layer, attached to the apices of the spinous processes. Between 166.—A Transverse Section of the Abdomen in the Lumbar Region. the anterior and middle layers is situated the Quadratus luniborum, betv^een the middle and posterior, the Erector spinte. The posterior lamella of this aponeurosis receives the attachment of the Internal oblique; it is also blended with the apo- neurosis of the Serratus posticus inferior and with that of the Latissimus dorsi, forming the lumbar fascia. Dissection. To expose the Rectus muscle, open its sheath by a vertical incision extending from the margin of the thorax to the pubes, and then reflect the two portions from the surface of the muscle, which is easily done, excepting at the linese transversse, where so close an adhesion exists, that the greatest care is requisite in separating them. Now raise the outer edge of the muscle, in order to examine the posterior layer of the sheath. By dividing the muscle in the centre, and turning its lower part downwards, the point where the posterior wall of the sheath termii'iates in a thin curved margin will be seen.