157 OF THE SPINE. I, Articulations of the Vertebral Column. The diflferent segments of the spine are connected together by ligaments, which admit of the same arrangement as the vertebrae. They may be divided into five sets. I. Those connecting the iorfees of the vertebrae. 2. Those connecting the laminee. 3. Those connecting the articular processes. 4. Those connecting the spmous processes. 5. Those of th.% transverse processes. The articulation of the bodies of the vertebrae with each other, form a series of amphiarthrodial joints; those between the articular processes form a series of arthrodial joints. I. The Ligaments of the Bodies. Anterior Common Ligament. Posterior Common Ligament. Intervertebral Substance. The Anterior Common Ligament (fig. 116) is a broad and strong band of liga- mentous fibres, which extends along the front surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. It is broader below than above, thicker in the dorsal than in the cervical or lumbar regions, and somewhat thicker opposite the front of the body of each vertebra, than opposite the intervertebral substance. It is attached, above, to the body of the axis by a pointed process, which is con- nected with the tendon of origin of the Longus colli muscle; and, extends down as far as the upper bone of the sacrum. It consists of dense longitudinal fibres, which are intimately adherent to the intervertebral substance, and the prominent margins of the vertebrae; but less closely to the middle of tlie bodies. In the latter situation the fibres are exceedingly thick, and serve to fill up the concavities on their front surface, and to make the anterior surface of the spine more even. This ligament is composed of several layers of fibres, which vary in length, but are closely interlaced with each other. The most superficial or longest fibres extend between four or five vertebra. A second subjacent set extend between two or three vertebrae; whilst a third set, the shortest and deepest, extend from one vertebra to the next. At the side of the bodies, the ligament consists of a few short fibres, which pass from one vertebra to the next, separated from the median portion by large oval apertures, for the passage of vessels. The Posterior Common Ligament is situated within the spinal canal, and extends along the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the body of the axis above, where it is continuous with the occipito-axoid ligament, to the sacrum below. It is broader at the upper than at the lower part of the spine, and thicker in the dorsal than in the cervical or lumbar regions. In the situation of the intervertebral substance and contiguous margins of the vertebras, where the ligament is more intimately adherent, it is broad, and presents a series of dentations with intervening concave margins; but it is narrow and thick over the centre of the bodies, from which it is separated by the vence basis vertebrce. This ligament is composed of smooth, shining, longitudinal fibres, denser and more com- pact than those of the anterior ligament, and composed of a superficial layer occupying the interval between three or four vertebrae, and of a deeper layer, which extends between one vertebra and the next adjacent to it. It is separated from the dura mater of the spinal cord by some loose filamentous tissue, very liable to serous infiltration. The Intervertebral Substance (fig. II6) is a lenticular disc of fibro-cartilage, interposed between the adjacent surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum, and forming the chief bond of connexion between those bones. These discs vary in shape, size, and thickness, in different parts of the spine. In shape they accurately correspond with the surfaces of the bodies betv/een which they are placed, being oval in the cervical and lumbar regions, and circular in the dorsal. Their size is greatest in the lumbar region. In thickness they vary not only in the difierent regions of the spine, but in different parts of the same region: