420 ARTERIES. Peeidiarities in Size. The dorsal artery of the foot may be larger than usual, to com- pensate for a deficient plantar artery; or it may be deficient in its terminal branches to the toes, which are then derived from the internal plantar; or its place may be supplied altogether by a large anterior peroneal artery. Position. This artery frequently curves outwards, lying external to the line between the middle of the ankle and the back part of the first interosseous space. Surgical Anatomy. This artery may be tied, by making an incision through the integu- ment, between two and three inches in length, on the fibular side of the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis, in the interval between it and the inner border of the short Extensor muscle. The incision should not extend further forwards than the back part of the first interosseous space, as the artery divides in this situation. The deep fascia being divided to the same extent, the artery will be exposed, the nerve lying upon its outer side. Branches. The branches of the dorsalis pedis are, the The tarsal artery arises from the dorsalis pedis, as that vessel crosses the scaphoid bone; it passes in an arched direction outwards, lying upon the tarsal bones, and covered by the Extensor brevis digitorura; it supplies that muscle and the articulations of the tarsus, and anastomoses with branches from the metatarsal, external malleolar, peroneal, and external plantar arteries. The metatarsal arises a little anterior to the preceding; it passes outwards to the outer part of the foot, over the bases of the metatarsal bones, beneath the tendons of the short Extensor, its direction being influenced by its point of origin; and it anastomoses with the tarsal and external plantar arteries. This vessel gives olF three branches, the interosseous, which pass forwards upon the three outer Dorsal interossei muscles, and, in the clefts between the toes, divide into two dorsal collateral branches for the adjoining toes. At the back part of each interosseous space these vessels receive the posterior perforating branches from the plantar arch; and at the fore part of each interosseous space, they are joined by the anterior perforating branches, from the digital arteries. The outer- most interosseous artery gives off a branch which supplies the outer side of the little toe. The dorsalis hallucis runs forwards along the outer border of the first meta- tarsal bone, and, at the cleft between the first and second toes, divides into two branches, one of Avhich passes inwards, beneath the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis, and is distributed to the inner border of the great toe; the other branch bifurcating to supply the adjoining sides of the great and second toes. The communicating artery dips down into the sole of the foot, between the two heads of the first Dorsal interosseous muscle, and inosculates with the termination of the external plantar artery, to complete the plantar arch. It here gives off two digital branches; one runs along the inner side of the great toe, on its plantar surfixce; the other passes forw^Bads along the first metatarsal space, and bifurcates for the supply of the adjacent sides of the great and second toes. The posterior tibial is an artery of large size, which extends obliquely down- Avards from the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, along the tibial side of the leg, to the fossa between the inner ankle and the heel, where it divides beneath the origin of the Abductor pollicis, into the internal and external plantar arteries. At its origin it lies opposite the interval between the tibia and fibula; as it descends, it approaches the inner side of the leg, lying behind the tMiia, and, in the lower part of its course, is situated midway between the inner malleolus and the tuberosity of the os calcis. Tarsal. Metatarsal. Dorsalis pollicis, or hallucis. Communicating. Interossous. Posterior Tibial Artery.