OSTEOLOGY. 126 from the middle of the brim on one side, to the same point on the opposite; its average measurement is five inches. The oblique extends from the margin of the pelvis, corresponding to the ileo-pectineal eminence on one side, to the sacro-iliac symphysis on the opposite side; its average measurement is also five inches. The cavit)/ of the true pelvis is bounded in front by the symphysis pubis; behind, by the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, which, curving forwards above and below, contracts the inlet and outlet of the canal; and laterally it is bounded by a broad, smooth, quadrangular plate of bone, corresponding to the inner surface of the body of the ischium. The cavity is shallow in front, mea- suring at the symphysis an inch and a half in depth, three inches and a half in the middle, and four inches and a half posteriorly. ' From this description, it will be seen that the cavity of the pelvis is a short, curved canal, considerably deeper on its posterior than on its anterior Avail, and broader in the middle than at either extremity, from the projection forwards of the sacro-coccygeal column above and below. This cavity contains, in the recent subject, the rectum, bladder, and part of the organs of generation. The rectum is placed at the back of the pelvis, and corresponds to the curve of the sacro-coccygeal column, the bladder in front, behind the symphysis pubis. In the female, the uterus and vagina occupy the interval between these parts. The lower circumference of the pelvis is very irregular, and forms what is called the outlet. It is bounded by three prominent eminences: one posterior, formed by the point of the coccyx; and one on each side, the tuberosities of the ischia. These eminences are separated by three notches; one in front, the puhic arch, formed by the convergence of the rami of the ischia and pubes on each side. The other notches, one on each side, are formed by the sacrum and coccyx behind, the ischium in front, and the ilium above: they are called the sacra- sciatic notches; in the natural state they are converted into foramina by the lesser and greater sacro-sciatic ligaments. The diameters of the outlet of the pelvis are two, antero-posterior and trans- verse. The antero-posterior extends from the tip of the coccyx to the lower part of the symphysis pubis; and the transverse from the posterior part of one ischiatic tuberosity, to the same point on the opposite side: the average measurement of both is four inches. The antero-posterior diameter varies with the length of the coccyx, and is capable of increase or diminution, on account of the mobility of this bone. Position of the Pelvis. In the erect posture, the pelvis is placed obliquely with regard to the trunk of the body; the pelvic surface of the symphysis ^o^—Vertical Section of the Pelvis, with lines pubis looking upwards and back- wards, the concavity of the sa- crum and coccyx looking down- wards and forwards; the base of the sacrum, in well formed fe- male bodies, being nearly four inches above the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and the apex of the coccyx a little more than half an inch above its lower border. The obliquity is much greater in the foetus, and at an early period of life, than in the adult. Axes of the Pelvis (fig. 102). The plane of the inlet of the true pelvis will be represented by a line drawn from the base of the sacrum to the upper margin of the symphy-