198 ARTICULATIONS. The deeper layer consists of a short, thick, and strong fasciculus, which passes from the apex of the malleolus to the inner surface of the astragalus, below the articular surface. This ligament is covered by the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum muscles. The External Lateral Ligament (fig. 144) consists of three fasciculi, taking ditferent directions, and separated by distinct intervals; for which reason it is described by some anatomists as three distinct ligaments.* This would seem the preferable description, were it not that the old nomenclature has passed into general use. The anterior fasciculus, the shortest of the three, passes from the anterior margin of the summit of the external malleolus, downwards and forwards, to the astragalus, iu front of its external articular facet. 144.—Ankle-joint: Tarsal and Tarso-Metatarsal Articulations. External View. Right Side. The posterior fasciculus, the most deeply seated, passes from the depression at the inner and back part of the external malleolus to the astralagus, behind its ex- ternal malleolar facets. Its fibres are almost horizontal in direction. The middle fasciculus, the longest of the three, is a narrow rounded cord, passing from the apex of the external malleolus downwards and slightly backwards to the middle of the outer side of the os calcis. It is covered by the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis. There is no posterior ligament, its place being supplied by the transverse liga- ment of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. The Synovial Membrane invests the inner surface of the ligaments, and sends a duplicature upwards between the lower extremities of the tibia and fibula for a short distance. Relations. The tendons, vessels, and nerves in connection with the joint are, in front, from within outwards, the Tibialis anticus. Extensor proprius poUicis, anterior tibial vessels, anterior tibial nerve, Extensor communis digitorum, and Peroneus tertius ; behind, from within outwards, Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus * Humphry, on the ^Skeleton,' p. 559.