MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 300 supporting it perpendicularly upon the head of the tibia, and thus maintaining tlie entire weight of the body. The Rectus muscle assists the Psoas and Iliacus, iu supporting the pelvis and trunk upon the femur, or in bending it forwards. Internal Femoral Region. Gracilis. Pectineus. Adductor Longus. Adductor Brevis. Adductor Magnus. Dissection. These muscles are at once ex- posed by removing the fascia from the fore part and inner side of the thigh. The limb should be abducted, so as to fender the muscles- tense, and easier of dissection. The' Gracilis is the most superficial muscle on the inner side of the thigh. It is thin and flattened, broad above, narrow and tapering below. It arises by a thin aponeurosis between two and three inches iu breadth, from the inner margin of the ramus of th^pubes and ischium. The fibres pass vertically downwards, and terminate in a rounded tendon which passes behind the internal condyle of the femur, and curving round the inner tu- bei'osity of the tibia, becomes flattened, and is inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, below the tuberosity. The tendon of this muscle is situated immediately above that of the Semitendinosus, and beneath the aponeurosis of the Sartorius, with which it is in part blended. As it passes across the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, it is separated from it by a synovial bursa common to it and the Semi- tendinosus muscle. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia lata and the Sartorius below; the internal saphenous vein crosses it obliquely near its lower part, lying superficial to the fascia lata. By its deep surface, with the three Adductors, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee- joint. The Pectineus is a flat quadrangular muscle, situated at the anterior part' of the upper and inner aspect of the thigh. It arises from the liuea ilio-pectinea, from the surface of bone in front of it, between the pectineal eminence and spine of the pubes, and from a tendinous prolongation of Gimbernat's ligament, which is attached to the crest of the pubes, and is contin- uous with the fascia covering the outer 188.—Muscles of the Internal Femoral Eegion.