44 OSTEOLOGY. The Pterygoid processes (Trripv^, a icing; eZSo?, likeness), (fig. 36), one on each side, descend perpendicularly from the point where the body "and great wing unite. Each process consists of an external and an internal plate, sepa- rated behind by an interrening notch,—the pterygoid fossa; 36.—Sphenoid Bone. Posterior Surface, but joined partially in front. The external pterygoid plate is broad and thin, turned a little outwards, and forms part of the inner wall of the zygo- matic fossa. It gives attach- ment, by its outer surface, to the External pterygoid; its inner surface forms part of the pterygoid fossa, and gives attachment to the Internal pterygoid. The internal pterygoid plate is much narrower and longer, curving outwards, at its extremity, into a hook-lite process of bone, the hamular process, around which turns the tendon of the Tensor palati muscle. At the base of this plate is a small, oval, shallow depression, the scaphoid fossa, from which arises the Tensor palati, and above which is seen the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal. The outer surface of this plate forms part of the pterygoid fossa, the inner surface forming the outer boundary of the pos- terior aperture of the nares. The two pterygoid plates are separated below by an angular interval, in which the pterygoid process, or tuberosity, of the palate 1x)ne is received. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process is very broad at its base, and forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. It supports Meckel's ganglion. It presents, above, the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal; and below, a rough margin, which articulates with the perpendicidar plate of the palate Bone. Development. The sphenoid bone is developed by ten centres, six for the pos- terior sphenoidal division, and four for the anterior sphenoid. The six centres for the posterior sphenoid are, one for each greater wing and external pterygoid plate; one for each internal pterygoid plate; two for the posterior part of the body. The four for the anterior sphenoid are, one for each lesser wing and anterior part of the body; and one for each sphenoidal turbinated bone. Ossification takes place in these pieces in the following order: the greater wing and external pterygoid plate are first formed, ossific granules being deposited close to the foramen rotundum on each side, at about the second month of foetal life; from thence ossification spreads outwards into the great wing, and downwards into the external pterygoid plate. Each internal pterygoid plate is then formed, and becomes united to the external about the middle'of fojtal life. The two centres for the posterior part of the body appear as separate nuclei, side by side, beneath the sella Turcica; they join, about the middle of foetal life, into a single-f)iece, which remains un-united to the rest of the bone imtU after birth. Each lesser wing is formed by a separate centre, which appears on the outer side of the optic foramen, at about the third month; they become united and join with the body at about the eighth month of fcetal life. At about the end of the third year, ossification has made its appeaiance in the sphenoidal spongy bones. 57.—Plan of the Development of Sphenoid. By ten Centres. 7, esser w-u, Ijirrcati SpiaioidaZ Uirbinated ions