OF THE NECK. INTERNAL CAROTID. 353 muscle; behind, by the anterior margin of the Trapezius; its base corresponds to the upper border of the clavicle; its apex, to the occiput. This space is crossed, about an inch above the clavicle, by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, which divides it unequally into two, an upper or occipital, and a lower or subclavian triangle. Tlie Occipital, the larger of the two posterior triangles, is bounded, in front, by the Sterno-mastoid; behind, by the Trapezius; below, by the Omo-hyoid. Its floor is formed from above downwards by the Splenius, Levator anguli scapulce, and the middle and posterior Scaleni muscles. It is covered by the integument, the Platysma below, the superficial and deep fasciag; and crossed, above, by the ascending branches of the cervical plexus; the spinal accessory nerve is directed obliquely across the space from the Sterno-mastoid, which it pierces, to the under surface of the Trapezius; below, the descending branches of the cervical plexus, and the transversalis colli artery and vein cross the space. A chain of lymphatic glands is also found running along the posterior border of the Steruo-mastoid, from the mastoid process to the root of the neck. The Subclavian, the smaller of the two posterior triangles, is bounded, above, by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid; below, by the clavicle; its base, directed forwards, being formed by the Sterno-mastoid. The size of this space varies according to the extent of attachment of the clavicular portion of the Sterno- mastoid and Trapezius muscles, and also according to the height at which the Omo-hyoid crosses the neck above the clavicle. The height also of this space varies much, according to the position of the arm, being much diminished by raising the limb, on account of the ascent of the clavicle, and increased by drawing the arm downwards, when that bone is depressed. This space is covered by the integument, superficial and deep fascia; and crossed by the descending branches of the cervical plexus. Just above the level of the clavicle, the third portion of the subclavian artery curves outwards and downwards from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus, across the first rib, to the axilla. Sometimes, this vessel rises as high as an inch and a half above the clavicle, or to any point intermediate between this and its usual level. Occasionally, it passes in front of the Scalenus anticus, or pierces the fibres of that muscle. The subclavian vein lies beneath the clavicle, and is usually not seen in this space; but it occasionally rises as high up as the artery, and has even been seen to pass with that vessel behind the Scalenus anticus. The brachial plexus of nerves lies above the artery, and in close contact with it. Passing ti'ansversely across the clavicular margin of the space, are the suprascapular vessels; and traversing its upper angle in the same direction, the transverse cervical vessels. The external jugular vein runs vertically downwards behind the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, to terminate in the Subclavian vein; it receives the transverse cervical and suprascapular veins, which occasionally form a plexus in front of the artery, and a small vein which crosses the clavicle from the cephalic. The small nerve to the Subclavius also crosses this triangle about its centre. A lymphatic gland is also found in the space. Internal Carotid Artekt. The internal carotid artery commences at the bifurcation of the common carotid, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and runs perpendicularly up- wards, in front of the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae, to the carotid foramen in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. After ascending in it for a short distance, it passes forwards and inwards through the carotid canal, and, again ascending a little by the side of the sella Turcica, curves upwards by the anterior clinoid process, where it pierces the dura mater, and divides .into its terminal branches. This vessel supplies the anterior part of the brain, the eye, and its appendages. Its size, in the adult, is equal to that of the external carotid. In the child, it is larger than that vessel. It is remarkable for the number of curvatures that it presents in different parts of its course. In its cervical portion it occasionally A A