235 ANTERIOR VERTEBRAL REGION. the Tensor palati; and the Palato-pharyngEei contract, and come nearly together, the uvula filling up the slight interval between them. By these means, the food is prevented passing into the upper part of the pharynx or the posterior nares; at the same time, the latter muscles form an inclined plane, directed obliquely downwards and backwards, along which the morsel descends into the lower part of the pharynx. Surgical Anatomy. The muscles of the soft palate should be carefully dissected, the rela- tions they bear to the surrounding parts especially examined, and their action attentively studied upon the dead subject, as the surgeon is required to divide one or more of these muscles in the operation of staphyloraphy. Mr. Fergusson has shewn, that in the congenital deficiency, called cleft palate, the edges of the fissure are forcibly separated by the action of the Levatoras palati and Palato-pharyngsei muscles, producing very considerable im- pediment to the healing process after the performance of the opei'ation for uniting their margins by adhesion; he has, consequently, recommended the division of these muscles as one of the most important steps in the operation. This he effects by an incision made with a curved knife introduced behind the flap. The incision is to be half way between the hamular process and Eustachian tube, and perpendicular to a line drawn between them. This incision perfectly accomplishes the division of the Levator palati. The Palato- pharyngceus may be divided by cutting across the posterior pillar of the soft palate, just below the tonsil, with a pair of blunt-pointed curved scissors; and the anterior pillar may be divided also. To divide the Levator palati, the plan recommended by Mr. Pollock is to be greatly preferred. The flap being put upon the stretch, a double-edge knife is passed through the soft palate, just on the inner side of the hamular process, and above the line of the Levator palati. The handle being now alternately raised and depressed, a sweeping cut is made along the posterior surface of the soft palate, and the knife with- drawn, leaving only a small opening in the mucous membrane on the anterior surface. If this operation is performed on the dead body, and the parts afterwards dissected, the Levator palati will be found completely divided. 7. Vertebral Region (Anterior). Rectus Capitis Anticus Major. Rectus Lateralis. Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor. Longus Colli. The Rectus Capitis Anticus Major (fig. 158), broad and thick above, narrow below, appears like a continuation upwards of the Scalenus anticus. It arises by four tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and ascends, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side, to be inserted into the basilar process of the occi- pital bone. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the pharynx, the sympathetic nerve, and the sheath enclosing the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumo- gastric nerve. By its posterior surface, with the Longus colli, the Rectus anticus minor, and the upper cervical vertebrae. The Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor is a short flat muscle, situated immediately beneath the upper part of the preceding. It arises from the anterior surface of the lateral mass of the atlas, and from the root of its transverse process, and passing obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the basilar process imme- diately behind the preceding muscle. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Rectus anticus major. By its posterior surface, with the front of the occipito-atlantal articulation. Externally, with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The Rectus Lateralis is a short, flat muscle, which arises from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the internal jugular vein. By its posterior surface, with the vertebral artery. The Longus Colli is a long, flat muscle, situated on the anterior surface of the spine, between the atlas and the third dorsal vertebral. It is broad in the middle, narrow and pointed at each extremity, and consists of three portions, of a superior oblique, an inferior oblique, and a vertical portion. The superior oblique portion