ARTERIES. 362 the Scalenus anticus muscle. Behind, it is in relation with the Middle scalenus. Above, with the brachial plexus of nerves. Below, with the pleura. The subclavian vein lies below and in front of the artery, separated from it by the Scalenus anticus. Plan of Relations of Second Portion of Subclavian Artery. Infro7it. Scalenus anticus. (iJfV Phrenic nerve, i rUvin-*''^-'^ Subclavian Vein. / Subclavian \ „ , Above ( Artery. ^, Brachial plexus. \^Secondportion.y ^^^eura. Behind. Middle Scalenus. The Third Portion of the Subclavian Artery passes downwards and outwards from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus to the lower border of the first rib, where it becomes the axillary artery. This portion of the vessel is the most superficial, and is contained in a triangular space, the base of which is formed in front by the Anterior scalenus, and the two sides by the Omo-hyoid above and the clavicle below. Relations. It is covered, in front, by the integument, the superficial fascia, the Platysma, deep fascia; and by the clavicle, the Subclavius muscle, and the supra- scapular artery and vein; the clavicular descending branches of the cervical plexus and the nerve to the Subclavius pass vertically downwards in front of the artery. The external jugular vein crosses it at its inner side, and receives the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins, which occasionally form a plexus in front of it. The subclavian vein is below the artery, lying close behind the clavicle. Behind, it lies on the Middle scalenus muscle. Above it, and to its outer side, is the brachial plexus, and Omo-hyoid muscle. Below, it rests on the outer surface of the first rib. Plan of Relations of Third Portion of Subclavian Artery. In front. Cervical fascia. External jugular, suprascapular, and transverse cervical veins. Descending branches of cervical plexus. Subclavius muscle, suprascapular artery, and clavicle. Above. Brachial plexus Omo-hyoid. Behind. Scalenus medius. Peculiarities. The subclavian arteries vary in their origin, their course, and the height to which they rise in the neck. The origin of the right subclavian from the innominate takes place, in some cases, above the sterno-ciavicular articulation; more frequently in the cavity of the thorax, below that joint. Or the artery may arise as a separate trunk from the arch of the aorta. In such cases it may be either the first, second, third, or even the last branch derived from that vessel: in the majority of cases, it is the first or last, rarely the second or third. When it is the first branch, it occupies the ordinary position of the innominate artery; when the second or third, it gains its usual position by passing behind the right carotid ; and when the last branch, it arises from the left extremity of the arch, at its upper or back