PROFUNDA. 4'3 Plan of the Relations of the Profunda Artery. In front. Femoral and pi'ofunda veins. Adductor longus. Outer side. Vastus internus. Behind. Iliacus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. The External Circumflex Artery supplies' the muscles on the front of the thigh. It arises from the outer side of the profunda, passes horizontally outwards, between the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the Sartorius and Rectus muscles, and divides into three sets of branches, ascending, transverse, and descending. • The ascending branches pass upwards, beneath the Tensor vagina? femoris muscle, to the outer side of the hip, anastomosing with the terminal branches of the gluteal and circumflex iliac arteries. The descendhig branches, three or four in number, pass downwards, beneath the Rectus, upon the Vasti muscles, to which they are distributed, one or two passing beneath the Vastus externus as far as the knee, anastomosing with the superior articular branches of the popliteal artery. The transverse branches, the smallest and least numerous, pass outwards over the Crurseus, pierce the Vastus externus, and wind round the femur to its back part, just below the great trochanter, anastomosing at the back of the thigh with the internal circumflex, sciatic, and superior perforating arteries. The Internal Circumjlex Artery, smaller than the external, arises from the inner and back part of the profunda, and winds round the inner side of the femur, between the Pectineus and Psoas muscles. On reaching the tendon of the Obturator externus, it gives olf two branches, one of which ascends to be dis- tributed to the Adductor muscles, the Gracilis, and Obturator externus, anasto- mosing with the obturator artery; the other descends, and passes beneath the Adductor brevis, to supply it and the great Adductor; while the continuation of the vessel passes backwards, between the Quadratus femoris and upper border of the Adductor magnus, anastomosing with the sciatic, external circumflex, and superior perforating arteries. Opposite the hip-joint, this branch gives oflT an articular vessel, which enters the joint beneath the transverse ligament; and, after supplying the adipose tissue, passes along the round ligament to the head of the bone. The Perforating Arteries (fig. 230), usually three in number, are so called from their perforating the tendons of the Adductor brevis and magnus muscles to reach the back of the thigh. The first is given off above the Adductor brevis, the second in front of that muscle, and the third immediately below it. The first or superior perforating artery passes backwards between the Pec- tineus and Adductor brevis (sometimes perforates the latter); it then pierces the Adductor magnus close to the linea aspera, and divides into branches which supply both Adductors, the Biceps, and Gluteus maximus muscle; anastomosing with the sciatic, internal circumflex, and middle perforating arteries. The second or middle perforating artery, larger than the first, pierces the tendons of the Adductor brevis and Adductor magnus muscles, and divides into ascending and descending branches, which supply the flexor muscles of the thigh, anastomosing with the superior and inferior perforating. The nutrient artery of the femur is usually given off from this branch.