ARTICULATIONS. 176 The Obturator Ligamoit is more properly regarded as analogous to the mus- cular fasciae, with Avhich it will therefore be described. ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The articulations of the Upper Extremity may be ai-ranged in the following groups:—1. Steruo-clavicular articulation. II. Scapulo-clavicular articulation. III. Ligaments of the Scapula. IV. Shoulder-joint.^ V. Elbow-joint. VI. Radio-ulnar articulation. VII. Wrist-joint. VIII. Articulations of the Carpal bones. IX. Carpo-metacarpal articulations. X. Metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. XL Articulations of the Phalanges. 130.—Sterno-Clavicular Articulation. Anterior View. I. Sterno-Clavicular Articulation. The Sterno-Clavicular is an arthrodial joint. The parts entering into its formation are the sternal end of the clavicle, the upper and lateral part of the first piece of the sternum, and the cartilage of the first rib. The articular surface of the clavicle is much longer than that of the sternum, and invested with a layer of cartilage,* Avhich is considerably thicker than that on the latter bone. The ligaments of this joint are the Anterior Sterno-Clavicular. Inter-Clavicular. Posterior Sterno-Clavicular. Costo-Clavicular (rhomboid). Literarticular Fibro-Cartilage. The Anterior Sterno-Clavicular Ligament is a broad band of fibi-es, which covers the anterior surface of the articulation, being attached, above, to the upper and front part of the inner extremity of the clavicle; and, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is attached, below, to the front and upper part of the first piece of the sternum. This ligament is covered in front by the sternal portion of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid and the integument; behind, it is in relation with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and the two synovial membranes. The Posterior Sterno-Clavicular Ligament is a similar band of fibres, which covers the posterior surface of the articulation, being attached, above, to the pos- terior part of the inner extremity of the clavicle; and which, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is connected, below, to the posterior and upper part of * According to Bruch, the sternal end of the clavicle is covered by a tissue, which is rather fibrous than cartilaginous in structure.