ARTICULATIONS. 164 that between the posterior surface of the odontoid process and transverse liga- ment. Actions. The movements permitted in this joint are flexion and extension, which give rise to the ordinary forward or backward nodding of the head, besides slight lateral motion to one or the other side. When either of these actions is carried beyond a slight extent, the whole of the cervical portion of the spine assists in its production. IV. Articulation of the Axis with the Occipital Bone. Occipito-Axoid. Three Odontoid. To expose these ligaments, the spinal canal should be laid open by removing the posterior arch of the atlas, the lamiuos and spinous process of the axis, and the portion of the occipital bone behind the foramen magnum, as seen in fig. 120. The Occipito-Axoid Ligament (Apparatus ligamentosus colli) is situated at the upper part of the front surface of the spinal canal. It is a broad and strong ligamentous band, which covers the odontoid process and its ligaments, and appears to be a prolongation upwards of the posterior common ligament of the spine. It is attached, below, to the posterior surface of the body of the axis, and becoming expanded as it ascends, is inserted into the basilar groove of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum. Relations. By its anterior surface, it is intimately connected with the transverse ligament; by its posterior surface Avith the dura mater. By cutting this ligament across, and turning its ends aside, the transverse and odontoid ligaments are exposed. The Odontoid or Check Ligaments, are strong rounded fibrous cords, which arise one on either side of the apex of the odontoid process, and passing obliquely upwards and outwards, are inserted into the rough depressions on the inner side of the condyles of the occipital bone. In the triangular interval left between these ligaments and the margin of the foramen magnum, a third strong ligamentous band (ligamentum suspensorium) may be seen, which passes almost perpendicularly from the apex of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the foramen, being intimately blended with the anterior occipito-atloid ligament, and upper fasciculus of the transverse ligament of the atlas. Actions. The odontoid ligaments serve to limit the extent to which rotation of the cranium may be carried; hence they have received the nam.e of check ligaments. V. Temporo-Maxillary Articulation. This is an arthrodial joint; the parts entering into its formation are, on each side, the anterior part of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone and the eminentia articularis above; with the condyle of the lower jaw below. The ligaments are the following: External Lateral. Stylo-maxillary. Internal Lateral. Capsular. Interarticular Fibro-cartilage. The External Lateral lAgament (fig. 121) is a short, thin, and narrow fasci- culus, attached above to the outer surface of the zygoma and to the rough tubercle on its lower border; below, to the outer surface and posterior border of the neck of the lower jaw. This ligament is broader above than below; its fibres are placed parallel with one another, and directed obliquely downwards and back- wards. Externally, it is covered by the parotid gland, and by the integument. Internally, it is in relation with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and the synovial membranes. The Internal Lateral Ligament (fig. 122) is a long, thin, and loose band, which