STRTTCTURE OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 483 posterior pyramids and the restiform bodies, opens to view the grey matter of the medulla, which is continuous, below, with the grey commissure of the cord. In the middle line is seen a longitudinal a6i.—Posterior Surface of Medulla Oblongata. furrow, continuous with the posterior median fissure of the cord, terminating, below, at the point of the ventricle, in a cul-de-sac, the ventricle of Arantius, which descends into the medulla for a slight extent. It is the remains of a canal, which, in the foetus, extends throughout the entire length of the cord. Structure. The columns of the cord are directly continuous with those of the medulla oblongata, below; but, higher up, both the white and grey constituents are re-arranged before they are con- tinued upwards to the cerebrum and cerebellum. The anterior pyramid is composed of :^r«j»M<f'i««'Hifib"res derived from the anterior column - -' -of the coi'd of its own side, and from the lateral column of the opposite half of the cord, and is continued upwards into the cerebrum and cerebellum. The cere- bellar fibres form a superficial and deep layer, which pass beneath the olive to the restiform body, and spread out into the structure of the cerebellum. A deeper fasciculus encloses the olivary body, and, receiving fibres from it, enters the pons as the olivary fasciculus or fillet; but the chief mass of fibres from the pyramid, the cerebral fibres, enter the pons in their passage upwards to the cerebrum. The anterior pyramids contain no grey matter. The lateral tract is continuous, below, Its fibres pass in three difi'erent directions. 262.—Transverse Section of Medulla Oblongata, ■Tosferiffj' Fissure- Anterii F<csc£ctz7t Tentes ■•/Body with the lateral column of the cord. The most external join the restiform body, and pass to the cerebellum. The internal, more numerous, pass forwards pushing aside the fibres of the anterior column, and form part of the opposite anterior pyramid. The middle fibres ascend, beneath the olivary body, to the cerebrum, passing along the back of the pons, and form, together with fibres from the restiform body, the fasciculi teretes, in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Olivary body. If a transverse section is made through either olivary body, it will be found to consist of a small ganglionic mass, deeply imbedded in the medulla, partly appearing on the surface as a smooth, olive-shaped eminence (fig. 262). It consists, externally, of white substance; and, internally, of a grey nucleus, the corpus dentatum. The grey matter is arranged in the form of a hollow capsule, open at its upper and inner part, and presenting a zig-zag, or dentated outline. White fibi-es pass into, or from the interior of this body, by the aperture in the posterior part of the capsule. They join with those fibres of th» anterior column which ascend on the outer side, and beneath the olive, to form the olivary fasciculus, which ascends to the cerebrum. The restiform body is formed chiefly of fibres from the posterior column of the cord; but it receives some from the lateral column, and a fasciculus from the anterior, and is continued, upwards, to the cerebrum and cerebellum. On entering II 2