66 OSTEOLOGY. angle of the occipital. In chiklhood, and occasionally in the adult, ^vhen the two halves of the frontal bone are not united, it is continued forwards to the root of the nose. This suture sometimes presents, near its posterior extremity, the parietal foramen on each side; and in front, where it joins the coronal suture, a space is occasionally left, which encloses a large Wormian bone. The Coronal Suture (fronto-parietal) extends transversely across the vertex of the skull, and connects the frontal with the parietal bones. It commences at the extremity of the great wing of the sphenoid on one side, and terminates at the same point on the opposite side. The dentations of this suture are more marked at the sides than at the summit, and are so constructed that the frontal rests on the parietal above, whilst laterally the frontal supports the parietal. The Lamhdoid Suture (occipito-parietal), so.called from its resemblance to the Greek letter A, connects the occipital with the parietal bones. It commences on each side at the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and inclines upwards to the end of the sagittal suture. The dentations of this suture ai'e very deep and distinct, and are often interrupted by several small Wormian bones. The sutures at the side of the skull are also three in number: the spheno-parietal, squamo-parietal, and masto-i^arietal. They are subdivisions of a single suture, formed between the lower border of the parietal, and the temporal and sphenoid bones, and which extends from the lower end of the lambdoid suture behind, to the lower end of the coronal suture in front. The Spheno-parietal is very short; it is formed by the tip of the great wing of the sphenoid, which overlaps the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The Squamo-parietal, or squamous suture, is arched. It is formed by the squamous portion of the temporal bone overlapping the middle division of the lower border of the parietal. The Masto-parietal is a short suture, deeply dentated, formed by the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, and the superior border of the mastoid portion of the temporal. The sutures at the base of the skull are, the basilar in the centre, and on each side, the petro-occipital, the masto-occipital, the petro-sphenoidal, and the squamo- sphenoidal. The Basilar Suture is formed by the junction of the basilar surface of the occipital bone with the posterior surface of the body of the sphenoid. At an early period of life, a thin plate of cartilage exists between these bones; but in the adult they become inseparably united. Between the outer extremity of the basilar suture, and the termination of the lambdoid, an irregular suture exists, which is subdivided into two portions. The inner portion, formed by the union of the petrous part of the temporal with the occipital bone, is termed the petro-occipital. The outer portion, formed by the junction of the mastoid part of the temporal with the occi- pital, is called the masto-occipital. Between the bones forming the petro-occipital suture, a thin plate of cartilage exists; in the masto-occipital is occasionally found the opening of the mastoid foramen. Between the outer extremity of the basilar suture and the spheno-parietal, an irregular suture may be seen, formed by the union of the sphenoid with the temporal bone. The inner and smaller portion of this suture is termed the petro-sphenoidal; it is formed between the petrous portion of the temporal, and the great wing of the sphenoid; the outer portion, of greater length, and arched, is formed between the squamous portion of the temporal, and the great wing of the sphenoid: it is called the squamo-sphenoidal. The cranial bones are connected with those of the face, and the facial bones with each other, by numerous sutures, which, though distinctly marked, have received no special names. The only remaining suture deserving especial consideration, is the transverse. This extends across the upper part of the face, and is formed by the junction of the frontal with the facial bones; it extends from the external -wngular process of one side, to the same point on the opposite side, and connects the frontal with the malar, the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the lachrymal, the superior maxillary, and the^iasal bones on each side.