VEINS 436 The sinuses at the base of the skull are the Cavernous. Inferior petrosal. Circular. Superior petrosal. Transverse. The Cavernous Sinuses are named from their presenting a reticulated structure. They are two in number, of large size, and placed one on each side of the sella Turcica, extending from the sphenoidal fissure to the apex of the petrous portion 239.—The Sinuses at the Base of the Skull. of the temporal bone: they receive anteriorly the ophthalmic vein through the sphenoidal fissure, communicate behind with the petrosal sinuses, and with each other by the circular and transverse sinuses. On the inner wall of each sinus is found the internal carotid artery, accompanied by filaments of the carotid plexus and by the sixth nerve; and on its outer wall, the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves. These parts are separated from the blood flowing along the sinus by the lining membrane, which is continuous with the inner coat of the veins. The cavity of the sinus, which is larger behind than in front, is intersected by filaments of fibrous tissue and small vessels. The cavernous sinuses receive the inferior anterior cerebral veins; they communicate with the lateral sinuses by means of the superior and inferior petrosal, and with the facial vein through the ophthalmic. The ophthalmic is a large vein, which connects the fi'ontal vein at the inner angle of the orbit with the cavernous sinus; it pursues the same course as the ophthalmic artery, and receives branches corresponding to those derived from that vessel. Forming a short single trunk, it passes thi'ough the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure, and terminates in the cavernous sinus. The Circular Sinus completely surrounds the pituitary body, and communicates on each side with the cavernous sinuses. Its posterior half is larger than the anterior; and in old age it is more capacious than at an early period of life. It receives veins from the pituitary body, and from the adjacent bone and dura mater.