334 ARTERIES. The Right Coronary Artery, about the size of a crow's quill, arises from the aorta immediately above the free margin of the right semilunar valve, between the pulmonary artery and the appendix of the right auricle. It passes forwards to the right side, in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, and curving around the right border of the heart, runs along its posterior surface as far as the posterior interventricular groove, where it divides into two branches, one of which continues onwards in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, and anastomoses with the left coronary; the other descends along the posterior inter- ventricular furrow, supplying branches to both ventricles and to the septum,-and anastomosing at the apex of the heart with the descending branch of the left coronary. This vessel sends a large branch along the thin margin of the right ventricle to the apex, and numerous small branches to the right auricle and ventricle, and tlie commencement of the pulmonary artery. The Left Coronary, smaller than the former, arises immediately above the free edge of the left semilunar valve, a little higher than the right; it passes forwards between the pulmonaiy artery and the left appendix auriculte, and descends obliquely towards the anterior interventricular groove, where it divides into two branches. Of these, one passes transversely outwards in the left auriculo-ventri- cular groove, and winds around the left border of the heart to its posterior surface, where it anastomoses with the superior branch of the right coronary; the other descends along the anterior interventricular groove to the apex of the heart, where it anastomoses with the descending branch of the right coronary. The left coronary supplies the left auricle and its appendix, both ventricles, and numerous small branches to the pulmonary artery, and commencement of the aorta. Pccvliarities. These vessels occasionally arise by a common trunk, or their number may be increased to three ; the additional branch being of small size. More rarely, there are two additional branches. Arteria Innominata. The innominate artery is the largest branch given olf from the arch of the aorta. It arises from the commencement of the transverse portion in front of the left carotid, and, ascending obliquely to the upper border of the right sterno-clavicular articulation, divides into the right carotid and subclavian arteries. This vessel varies from an inch and a half to two inches in length. Relatio?is. In front, it is separated from the first bone of the sternum by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, and by the left innominate and right inferior thyroid veins which cross its root. Behind, it lies upon the trachea, which it crosses obliquely. On the right side is the right vena innominata, right pneumogastric nerve, and the pleura; and on the left side, the remains of the thymus gland, and origin of the left carotid artery. Plan of the Relations op the Innominate Artery. I71 front. Sternum. Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Remains of thymus gland. Left innominate and right inferior thyroid veins. Right side. Eight vena innominata. Right pneumogastric nerve Pleura. Behind. Trachea. Peculiarities in point of division. When the bifurcation of the innominate artery varies from the point above mentioned, it sometimes ascends a considerable distance above the Left side. Remains of thymus. Left carotid.