VEINS. 434 The Inferior Anterior Cerebral Veins commence on the under surface of the anterior lobes of the brain, and terminate in the cavernous sinuses. The Inferior Lateral Cerebral Veins commence on the lateral parts of the hemispheres, and at the base of the brain: they unite to form fi'om three to five veius, which open into the lateral sinus from before backwards. The Inferior Median Cerebral Veins, which are very large, commence at the fore part of the under surface of the cerebrum, and from the convolutions of the posterior lobe, and terminate in the straight sinus behind the venae Galeni. The Deep Cerebral, or Ventricular Veins (venee Galeni), are two in number, one from the right, the other from the left, ventricle. They are each formed by two veins, the vena corporis striati, and the choroid vein. They run backwards, parallel with one another, enclosed within the velum interpositum, and pass out of the brain at the great transverse fissure, between the under surface of the corpus callosum and the tubercula quadrigemina, to enter the straight sinus. The vena corporis striati commences in the groove between the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, receives numerous veins from both of these parts, and unites behind the anterior pillar of the fornix with the choroid vein, to form one of the venas Galeni. The choroid vein runs along the whole length of the outer border of the choroid plexus, receiving veins from the hippocampus major, the fornix and corpus callosum, and unites, at the anterior extremity of the choroid plexus, with the vein of the corpus striatum. The Cerebellar Veins occupy the surface of the cerebellum, and are disposed in three sets, superior, inferior, and lateral. The superior pass forwards and inwards, across the superior vermiform process, and terminate in the straight sinus: some open into the venje Galeni. The inferior cerebellar veins, of large size, run transversely outwards, and terminate by two or three trunks in the lateral sinuses. The lateral anterior cerebellar veins, terminate in the superior petrosal sinuses. Sinuses of the Duea Matee. The sinuses of the dura mater are venous channels, analogous to the veins, their outer coat being formed by the dura mater; their inner, by a continuation of the sei-ous membrane of the veins. They are twelve in number, and are divided into two sets. i. Those situated at the upper and back part of the skull. 2. The sinuses at the base of tlie skull. The former are the Superior longitudinal. Straight sinus. Inferior longitudinal. Lateral sinuses. Occipital sinuses. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus occupies the attached margin of the falx cerebri. Commencing at the crista Galli, it runs from before backwards, groov- ing the inner surface of the frontal, the adjacent margins of the two parietal, and the superior division of the crucial ridge of the occipital bone, and terminates by dividing into the two lateral sinuses. This sinus is triangular in form, narrow in front, and gradually increasing in size as it passes backwards. On examining its inner surface, it presents the internal openings of the cerebral veins, which run, for the most part, from behind forwards, and chiefly open at the back part of the sinus, their orifices being concealed by fibrous areola}; inumerous fibrous bands {chorda; Willisi) are also seen, which extend transversely across the inferior angle of the sinus; and lastly, some small, white, projecting bodies, the glandulaj Pacchioni. This sinus receives the superior cerebral veins, nuiiM||pus veins from the diploe and dura mater, and, at the posterior extremity of tli,e^™ti<4iteuture, the parietal veins from the pericranium. ^Mjj^oinTwhere the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses are continuous is ^pKed the confluence of the sinuses, or the torcular Ilerophili. It presents a