592 ORGANS OF SENSE. pujiil. They form, by tlieir interlacement, a delicate mesh, in Avliich the pigment cells, vessels, and nerves are contained. The muscular fibre is involuntary, and consists of circular and radiating fibres. The circular fibres (sphincter of the pupil), surround the margin of the pupil on the posterior surface of the iris, like a sphincter, forming a narrow band, about one-thirtieth of an inch in width ; those near the free margin being closely aggregated; those more external somewhat separated, and forming less complete circles. The radiating fibres (dilator of the pupil) converge from the circum- ference towards the centre, and blend with the circular fibres near the margin of the pupil. The pigment cells are found in the stroma of the iris, and also as a distinct layer on its anterior and posterior surfaces. In the stroma, the cells are ramified, and contain yellow or brown pigment, according to the colour of the eye. On the front of the iris, there is a single layer of oval or rounded cells, with branching offsets. On the back of the iris, there are several layers of small, round cells, filled with dark pigment. This layer is continuous with the pigmentary covering of the ciliary processes. The arteries of the iris are derived from the long and anterior ciliary, and from the vessels of the ciliary processes. Membrana pupillaris. In the fatus, the pupil is closed by a delicate, transparent vascular membrane, the membrana pupillaris, which divides the space in which the iris is suspended into two distinct chambers. This membrane contains numerous minute vessels continued from the margin of the iris to those on the front part of the capsule of the lens. These vessels have a looped arrangement, converging towards each other without anastomosing. Between the seventh and eighth month, the membrane begins to disappear, by its gradual absorption from the centre towards the circumfei'ence, and at birth only a few fragments remain. It is said sometimes to remain permanent, and jDi'oduce blindness. The Ciliary ligament is a narrow ring of circular fibres, about one-fortieth of an inch thick, and of a whitish colour, which serves to connect the external and middle tunics of the eye. It is placed around the circumference of the iris, at its point of connection with the external layer of the choroid, the cornea, and sclei'otic. Its component fibres are delicate, and resemble those of elastic tissue. At this point of connection with the sclerotic a minnte canal is situated between the two, called the sifius circularis iridis. The Ciliary muscle (Bowman) consists of unstriped fibres: it forms a greyish, semitransparent, circular l)and, about one-eighth of an inch broad, on the outer surface of the fore part of the choroid. It is thickest in front, and gradually becomes thinner behind. Its fibres are soft, of a yellowish-white colour, longitu- dinal in direction, and arise at the point of junction of the cornea and sclerotic. Passing backwards, tliey are attached to the choroid, in front of the retina, and correspond by their inner surface to the plicated part of the former membrane. Mr. Bowman supposes that this muscle is so placed as to advance the lens, by exercising compression ou the vitreous body, and by drawing the ciliary processes towards the line of junction of the sclerotic and cornea, and by this means to adjust the eye to the vision of near objects. The Retina may be exposed by carefully removing the choroid from its external surface. It is a delicate nervous membrane, upon the surface of which the images of external objects are received. Its outer surface is in contact with the pigmentary layer of the choroid; its inner surface, with the vitreous body. Behind, it is con- tinuous with the optic nerve; it gradually diminishes in thickness from behind forwards; and, in front, extends nearly as far forwards as the ciliary ligament, where it terminates by a jagged margin, the ora serrata. It is soft, and semi- transparent, in the fresh state; but soon becomes clouded, opaque, and of a pinkish .tint. Exactly in the centre of the posterior part of the retina, and at a point correspondiiig to the axis of the eye, in which the sense of vision is most perfect, is a round, elevated, yellowish spot, called, after its discoverer, the yelloio spot or