491 INTERIOR OF CEREBRUM. fasciculus, these fibres consisting of some derived from the same, and others from the opposite lateral tract of the medulla. More deeply, are a layer of finer fibres, mixed with grey matter, derived from the cerebellum, blended with the former. The cerebral surface of the crus cerebri is formed of these fibres, and is named the tegmentum. The loctis niger is a mass of grey matter, situated between the superficial and deep layer of fibres above described. It is placed nearer the inner than the outer side of this body. The posterior lobes of the cerebrum are concealed from view by the upper surface of the cerebellum, and pons Varolii. When these parts are removed, the two hemispheres are seen to be separated by the great longitudinal fissure, this fissure being arrested, in front, by the posterior rounded border of the corpus callosum. General Arrangement of the Parts composing the Cerebrum. As the peduncles of the cerebrum enter the hemispheres, they diverge from one another, so as to leave an interval between them, the interpeduncular space. As they ascend, the component fibres of each pass through two large masses of grey matter, the ganglia of the brain, called the thalamus opticus and eorptis striatum, which project as rounded eminences from the upper and inner side of each peduncle. The hemispheres are connected together, above these masses, by the great transverse commissure, the corpus callosum, and the interval left between its under surface, the upper surface of the ganglia, and the parts closing the interpeduncular space, forms the general ventricular cavity. The upper part of this cavity is subdivided into two, by a vertical septum, the septum lucidum; and thus the two lateral ventricles are formed. The lower part of the cavity forms the third ventricle, which communicates with the lateral ventricles, above, and with the fourth ventricle, behind. The fifth ventricle is the interval left between the two layers composing the septum lucidum. Interior of the Cerebrum. If the upper part of either hemisphere is removed with a scalpel, about half an inch above the level of the corpus callosum, its internal white matter will be exposed. It is an oval-shaped centre, of white substance, surrounded on all sides by a narrow, convoluted margin of grey matter which presents an equal thickness in nearly every part. This white, central mass, has been called the centrum ovale minus. Its surface is studded with numerous minute red dots {puncta vasculosa), produced by the escape of blood from divided blood-vessels. In inflammation, or great congestion of the brain, these are very numerous, and of a dark colour. If the remaining portion of one hemisphere is slightly separated from the other, a broad band of white substance will be observed connecting them, at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure: this is the corpus callosum. The margins of the hemispheres, which overlap this portion of the brain, are called the labia cerebri. Each labium is part of the convolution of the corpus callosum {gyrus fornicatus), already described; and the space between it and the upper surface of the corpus callosum, has been termed the ventricle of the corpus callosum. The hemispheres should now be sliced off, to a level with the corpus callosum, when the white substance of that structure will be seen connecting together both hemispheres. The large expanse of medullary matter now exposed, surrounded by the convoluted margin of grey substance, is called the centrum ovale majus of Vieusseus. The corpus callosum is a thick stratum of transverse fibres, exposed at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure. It connects the two hemispheres of the brain, forming their great transverse commissure; and forms the roof of a space in the interior of each hemisphere, the lateral ventricle. It is about four inches in length extending to within an inch and a half of the anterior, and to within two inches and a half of the posterior, part of the brain. It is somewhat broader