637 STOMACH. On looking into the pyloric end of the stomach, the mucous membrane is found projecting inwards in the form of a circular fold, the pylorus, leaving a narrow circular aperture, about half an inch in diameter, by which the stomach communi- cates with the duodenum. The pylorus is formed by a reduplication of the mucous membrane of the stomach, containing numerous muscular fibres, which are aggregated into a thick circular ring, the longitudinal fibres and serous membrane being continued over the fold without assisting in its formation. The aperture is occasionally oval. Sometimes, the circular fold is replaced by two cresceutic folds, placed, one above, and the other below, the pyloric orifice; and, more rarely, there is only one cres- centic fold. Structure. The stomach consists of four coats: a serous, a muscular, a cellular, and a mucous coat, together with vessels and nerves. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and covers the entire surface of the organ, excepting along the greater and lesser curvatures, at the points of attachment of the greater and lesser omenta; here the two layers of peritoneum leave a small triangular space, along which the nutrient vessels and nerves pass. The muscular coat (fig. 334) is situated immediately beneath the serous covering. It consists of three sets of fibres: longitudinal, circular, and oblique. 334.—The Muscular Coat of the Stoma''^ The longitudinal fibres are most superficial; they are continuous with the longi- tudinal fibres of the oesophagus, radiating in a setellate manner from the cardiac orifice. They are most distinct along the curvatures, especially the lesser; but are very thinly distributed over the surfaces. At the pyloric end, they are more thickly distributed, and continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the small intestine. The circular fibres form a uniform layer over the whole extent of the stomach, beneath the longitudinal fibres. At the pylorus, they are most abundant, and are aggregated into a circular ring, which projects into the cavity, and forms, with the fold of mucous membrane covering its surface, the pyloric valve. The oblique fibres are limited chiefly to the cardiac end of the stomach.