737 all that is necessary for the rei^lacement of the hernia. If in the inguinal canal, or at the internal ring, it will be necessary to divide the aponeurosis of the External oblique so as to lay open the inguinal canal. In dividing the stricture, the direction of the incision should be directly upwards. When the intestine passes along the spermatic canal, and escapes from the external ring into the scrotum, it is called common oblique inguinal, or scrotal hernia. If the intestine does not escape from the external ring, but is retained in the inguinal canal, it is called incomplete inguinal hernia or huhonocele. In each of these cases, the coverings which invest it will depend upon the extent to which it descends in the inguinal canal. There are two other varieties of oblique inguinal hernia: the congenital, and infantile. Congenital hernia is liable to occur in those cases where the pouch of perito- neum which accompanies the cord and testis in its descent in the foetus remains unclosed, and communicates directly with the peritoneum. The intestine descends along this pouch into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and lies in contact with the testis. This form of hernia has no proper sac, being contained within the tunica vaginalis. In infantile hernia, the hernial sac descends along the inguinal canal into the scrotum, behind the pouch of peritoneum which accompanies the cord and testis into the same part. The abdominal aperture of this pouch is closed, but the portion contained in the inguinal canal remains unobliterated. The hernial sac is consequently invested, more or less completely, by the posterior layer of the tunica vaginalis, from which it is separated by a little loose areolar tissue : so that in operating upon this variety of hernia, three layers of peritoneum would require division; the first and second being the layers of the tunica vaginalis, the third the anterior layer of the hernial sac. Direct Inguinal Hernia. In direct inguinal hernia, the protrusion makes its way through some part of the abdominal wall internal to the epigastric artery, and passes directly through the abdominal parietes and external ring. At the lower part of the abdominal wall is a triangular space (Hesselbach's triangle), bounded, externally, by the epigastric artery; internally, by the margin of the Rectus muscle; below, by Poupart's ligament. The conjoined tendon is stretched across the inner two- thirds of this space, the remaining portion of the space being filled in by the transversalis fascia. In some cases, the hernial protrusion escapes from the abdomen on the outer side of the conjoined tendon, pushing before it the peritoneum, the subserous cel- lular tissue, and the transversalis fascia. It then enters the inguinal canal, passing along nearly its whole length, and finally emerges from the external ring, receiving an investment from the intercolumnar fascia. The coverings of this form of hernia are precisely similar to those investing the oblique form. In other cases, and this is the more frequent variety, the intestine is either forced through the fibres of the conjoined tendon, or the tendon is gradually dis- tended in front of it, so as to form a complete investment for it. The intestine then enters the lower end of the inguinal canal, escapes at the external ring, lying on the inner side of the cord, and receives additional coverings from the superficial fascia and the integument. This form of hernia has the same coverings as the oblique variety, excepting that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the Cremaster, and the infundibuliform fascia is replaced by a part of the general fascia transversalis. The seat of stricture in both varieties of direct hernia is most frequently at the neck of the sac, or at the external ring. lu that form of hernia which perforates the conjoined tendon, it not unfrequently occurs at the edges of the fissure EBB,