00 2 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF FOOT. 5^3 The branches of the anterior tibial nerve, in its course through the leg, are the muscular nerves to the Tibialis anticus, Extensor loiigus digitorum, and Extensor proprius pollicis muscles. The external or tarsal branch of the anterior tibial, passes outwards across the tarsus, beneath the Extensor brevis digitorum, and, having become ganglionic, like the posterior interosseous nerve at the M^rist, supplies the Extensor brevis digitorum and the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus. The internal branch, the continuation of the nerve, accompanies the dorsalis pedis artery along the inner side of the dorsum of the foot, and, at the first inter- osseous space, divides into two branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toes, communicating with the internal division of the musculo- cutaneous nerve. The Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve supplies the muscles on the fibular side of the leg, and the integument of the dorsum of the foot. It passes forwards between the Peronei muscles and the Extensor longus digitorum, pierces the deep fascia at the lower third of the leg, on its front and outer side, and divides into two branches. This nerve, in its course between the muscles, gives off muscular branches to the Peroneus longus and brevis, and cutaneous filaments to the in- tegument of the lower part of the leg. The internal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, passes in front of the ankle joint, and along the dorsum of the foot, supplying the inner side of the great toe, and the adjoining sides of the second and third toes. It also supplies the integument of the inner ankle and inner side of the foot, communicating with the internal saphenous nerve, and joins with the anterior tibial nerve, between the great and second toes. The external branch, the larger, passes along the outer side of the dorsum of the foot, to be distributed to the adjoining sides of the third, fourth, and fifth toes. It also supplies the integument of the outer ankle and outer side of the foot, communicating with the short saphenous nerve. The distribution of these branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve will be found to vary; together, they supply all the toes excepting the outer side of the little toe, and the adjoining sides of the great and second toes.