OSTEOLOGY. 56 Bristles passed t/irauijh Xempo70-Mala,r CanuZs of the frontal bone. The orbital process is a thick and strong plate, which pro- jects backwards from the orbital margin of the bone. Its upper surface, smooth and concave, forms, by its junction with the great ala of the sphenoid, the outer wall of the orbit. Its under surface, smooth and convex, forms part of the temporal fossa. Its anterior margin is smooth and rounded, forming part of the circumference of the orbit. Its superior margin, rough, and directed horizontally, articulates with the frontal bone behind the external angular process. Its posterior margin is rough and serrated for articulation with 49.—Left Malar Bone. Outer Surface, the sphenoid ; internally it is also serrated for articulation with the orbital surface of the superior maxillary. At the angle of junction of the sphe- noidal and maxillary portions, a short rounded non-articular margin is generally seen; this forms the anterior boundary of the spheno-maxillary fissure; oc- casionally, no such non-articular margin exists, the fissure being completed by the direct junction of the maxillary and sphenoid bones, or by the interposition of a small Wormian bone in the angular interval between them. On the upper surface of the orbital process are seen the ori- fices of one or two temporo- malar canals; one of these usually opens on the posterior surface, the other (occasionally two), on the facial surface: they transmit filaments (temporo- malar) of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The maxillary process is a rough triangular surface, which articulates with the superior maxillary bone. The zygo- matic process, long, narrow, and serrated, articulates with the zygomatic process of the tem- poral bone. Of the four bor- ders, the superior or orbital, is smooth, arched, and forms a considerable part of the circumference of the orbit. The inferior, or zygomatic, is continuous with the lower border of the zygomatic arch, affording attachment by its rough edge to the Masseter muscle. The anterior or maxillary border is rough, and bevelled at the expense of its inner table, to articulate with the superior maxillary bone; affording attachment by its outer margin to the Levator labii superioris proprius, just at its point of junction with the superior maxillary. The posterior or temporal border, curved like an italic /, is continuous above with the commencement of the temporal ridge; below, with the upper border of the zygomatic arch; it affords attachment to the temporal fascia. Developm€7it. By a single centre of ossification, which appears at about the same period when ossification of the vertebras commences. 50.—Left Malar Bone. Inner Surface.