THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 477 259.—Longitudinal Section of the white and grey substance of the spinal cord, through the middle of the lumbar enlargement. Mag. i4 diam.—J. L. Clarke,(ie^. are smaller than those of the anterior cornu. In the neck above the cervical enlargement, a similar tract reajjpears, and is traversed by the lower part of the spinal accessory nerve. Origin of the Spinal Nerves. The posterior roots are larger than the anterior; but their component filaments are finer and more delicate. They are all attached immediately to the posterior columns only, and decussate with each other in all directions through the columns; but some of them pass through the grey substance into both the lateral and anterior columns. Within the grey substance, they run longi- tudinally upwards and downwards; transversely through the posterior commissure to the opposite side; and into the anterior cornu of their own side (figs. 258, 259). The anterior roots are attached exclusively to the anterior column, or rather to the anterior part of the antero-lateral columns; for there is no antero-lateral fissure dividing the anterior from the lateral column. Within the grey substance, the fibrils cross each other, and diverge in all directions, like the expanded hairs of a brush (figs. 258, 259), some of them running more or less longitudinally upwards and downwards; and others decussating with those of the opposite side through the anterior commissure in front of the central canal. All the fibres of both roots of the nerves proceed through the white columns into the grey substance, with, perhaps, the exception of some which appear to run longitudinally in the posterior columns; but whether these latter fibres of the posterior roots ultimately enter the grey substance of the cord after a very oblique course, or whether they proceed up- wards to the brain, is uncertain.* The Central Canal. In the foetus, until after the sixth month, a canal, continuous with the general ventricular cavity of the brain, extends throughout the entire length of the spinal cord, formed by the closing-in of a pre- viously open groove. In the adult, this canal can only be seen at the upper part of the cord, extending from the Ant- Jioots point of the calamus scriptorius, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, for about half an inch down the centre of the cord, where it terminates in a cul de sac; the remnant of the canal being just visible in a section of the cord, as a small, pale spot, corresponding to the centre of the grey commissure: its cavity is lined with a layer of cylindrical ciliated epithelium. In some cases, this canal remains pervious throughout the whole length of the cord. CoLiarm. The Brain and its Membranes. Dissection. To examine the brain with its membranes, the skull-cap must be removed. In order to effect this, saw through the external table, the section commencing, in front, about an inch above the margin of the orbit, and extending, behind, to a level with the occipital protuberance. Then break the internal table with the chisel and hammer, to avoid in- juring the investing membranes or brain ; loosen, and forcibly detach the skull, when the dura mater will be exposed. The adhesion between the bone and the dura mater is very intimate, and much more so in the young subject than in the adult. The membranes of the brain are, the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, and pia mater. * The above description, and accompanying illustrations, kindly furnished me by my friend, Mr. Lockhart Clarke, embodies a condensed account of his laborious and extensive observations on the structure of the spinal cord. For further information on this subject, vide Phil. Trans. i2, SI—1853, Part iii.; 1858, Parti.; 1859, Parti.; 1862, Part ii.