526 CRANIAL NERVES. internally, with the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, and the origin of the Tensor palati muscle; behind it, is the middle meningeal artery. Branches of communication. This ganglion is connected with the inferior maxillary nerve, and its internal pterygoid branch, by two or three short, delicate filaments, and also with the auriculo-temporal nerve: from the former, it obtains its motor; from the latter, its sensory root; its communication with the sympathetic being effected by a filament from the plexus surrounding the middle meningeal artery. This ganglion also communicates with the glosso- pharyngeal and facial nerves, through the small petrosal nerve continued from the tympanic plexus. Its branches of distribution are a filament to the Tensor tympani, and one to the Tensor palati. The former passes backwards, on the outer side of the Eustachian tube; the latter arises from the ganglion, near the origin of the internal pterygoid nerve, and passes forwai'ds. Submaxillary Ganglion. The submaxillary ganglion (fig. 280), is of small size, circular in form, and situated above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, near the posterior border of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, being connected by filaments with the lower border of the gustatory nerve. Branches of communication. This ganglion is connected with the gustatory nerve by a few filaments which join it separately, at its fore and back part. It also receives a branch from the chorda tympani, by which it communicates with the facial; and communicates with the sympathetic by filaments from the ngrxi moUes—the sympathetic plexus around the facial artery. Branches of distribution. These are five or six in number; they arise from the lower part of the ganglion, and supply the mucous membrane of the mouth and Wharton's duct, some being lost in the submaxillary gland. According to Meckel, a branch from this ganglion occasionally descends in front of the Hyo-glossus muscle, and, after joining with one from the hypoglossal, passes to the Genio-hyo- glossus muscle. Eighth Pair. The eighth -pair consists of three nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory. The Glosso-Pharyngeal Nerve is distributed, as its name implies, to the tontjue and pharynx, being the nerve of „ r\ • ■ j? i^- d • j-t ■ ^ , , „ , 283.—Origin of the Eighth rair, their sensation to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, fauces, and tonsil; of motion to the Pharyngeal muscles; and a special nerve of taste in all the parts of the tongue to which it is distributed. It is the smallest of the three divisions of the eighth pair, and arises by three or four filaments, closely connected together, from the upper part of the medulla oblongata, immediately behind the olivary body. Its deep origin may be traced through the fasciculi of the lateral tract, to a nucleus of grey matter at the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, external to the fasciculi teretes. From its superficial origin, it passes outwards across the flocculus, and leaves the skull at the central part of the jugular foramen, in a separate sheath of the dura mater and arachnoid, in front of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves. In its passage through the jugular foramen, it grooves the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; and, at its exit from the skull, passes forwards between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and descends in front of the latter vessel, and beneath the styloid procesfi and the