ELBOW-JOINT. i8i superior radio-ulnar articulation. The articular surfaces are covered with a thin laver of cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments:— Anterior Ligament. Internal Lateral. Posterior Ligament. External Lateral. The Antei'ior Ligament (fig. 132) is a broad and thin fibrous layer, which covers the anterior surfiice of the joint. It is attached to the front of the humerus immediately above the coronoid fossa; below, to the anterior surface of the coronoid process of the ulna and orbicular ligament, being continuous on each side with the lateral ligaments. Its superficial or oblique fibres pass from the innner condyle of the humerus outwards to the orbicular ligament. The middle fibres, vertical in direction, pass from the upper part of the coronoid depression, and become blended with the preceding. A third, or transverse set, intersect these at right angles. This ligament is 132.—Left Elbow-Joint, showing Anterior in relation, in front, with the Brachialis and Internal Ligaments. anticus; behind, with the synovial mem- brane. The Posterior Ligament \s a thin and loose menbranous fold, attached, above, to the lower end of the humerus, imme- diately above the olecranon depression; below, to the margin of the olecranon. The superficial or transverse fibres pass between the adjacent margins of the ole- cranon fossa. The deeper portion consists of vertical fibres, which pass from the upper part of the olecranon fossa to the margin of the olecranon. This ligament is in relation, behind, with the tendon of the Triceps and the Anconeus; in front, with the synovial membrane. The Lnternal L^ateral Ligament is a thick triangular band of ligamentous fibres, consisting of two distinct portions, an anterior and posterior. The anterior portion, directed obliquely forwards, is attached, above, by its apex, to the front part of the internal condyle of the hume- rus ; and, below, by its broad base, to the inner margin of the coronoid process. The posterior portion, also of triangular form, is attached, above, by its apex, to the lower and back part of the internal condyle; below, to the inner margin of the olecranon. This ligament is in rela- tion, internally, with the Triceps and Flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and the ulnar nerve. The External Lateral LJgament (fig. 133) is a short and narrow fibrous fasci- culus, less distinct than the internal, attached, above, to the external condyle of the humerus; below, to the orbicular ligament, some of its most posterior fibres passing over that ligament, to be inserted into the outer margin of the ulna. This ligament is intimately blended with the tendon of origin of the Supinator brevis muscle. The Synovial Membrane is very extensive. It covers the margin of the arti- cular surface of the humerus, and lines the coronoid and olecranon depressions on that bone; from these points, it is reflected over the anterior, posterior, and lateral