85 RIBS. Articulations. With the clavi( side. 75.—A Central Rib of Right Side. Inner Surface. and seven costal cartilages on each Attachment of Muscles. The Pectora- lis major, Sterno-cleido-mastoid, Sterno- hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, Triangularis sterni, aponeurosis of the Obliquus externus, Obliquus internus, and Transversalis muscles, Rectus and Diaphragm. The Ribs. The Ribs are elastic arches of bone, which form the chief part of the thoracic walls. They are twelve in number on each side; but this number may be increased by the development of a cervical or lumbar rib, or may be diminished to eleven. The first seven are connected behind with the spine, and in front with the sternum, through the intervention of the costal cartilages; they are called vertebro- sternal, or true ribs. The remaining five are false ribs; of these the first three, being connected behind with the spine, and in front with the costal cartilages, are called the vertebro-costal ribs: the last two are connected with the vertebras only, being free at their anterior ex- tremities; they are termed vertebral or floating ribs. The ribs vary in their di- rection, the upper ones being placed nearly at right angles with the spine, the lower ones obliquely, so that the anterior extremity is lower than the posterior. The extent of obliquity reaches its maximum at the ninth rib, and gradu- ally decreases from that rib to the twelfth. The ribs are situated one be- neath the other in such a manner that spaces are left between them; these are called intercostal spaces. Their length corresponds to the length of the ribs, their breadth is more considerable in front than behind, and between the upper than between the lower ribs. The ribs increase in length from the first to the seventh, when they again diminish to the twelfth. In breadth they decrease from above downwards; in each rib the greatest breadth is at the sternal extremity. Common characters of the Ribs. (fig. 75). A rib from the middle of the series should be taken in order to study the common characters of the ribs. Each rib presents two extremities, a posterior or vertebral, an anterior or sternal, and an intervening portion, the body or shaft. The posterior or vertebral