STRUCTURE OF JOINTS. fusiform. Each contains a nucleus, furnished occasionally with one or two nucleoli. The nuclei vary from to ^jjjj,, of an inch; they sometimes contain fat globules, or appear converted into fat. The intercellular substance is either homogenous, or finely granular, or fibrous. In temporary/ cartilage, the intercellular substance is not abundant; but the cartilage cells are numerous, and situated at nearly equal distances apart. The cells vary in shape and size, the majority being round or oval, and their nuclei are minutely granular. When ossification commences in the cartilage, the cells become arranged in clusters or rows, the ends of which are directed towards the ossifying part. In articular cartilage, the intercellular substance is more abundant than in the former variety ; it appears dim, like ground glass, and has a finely granular or homogenous aspect. The cells are oval or roundish, from to ^ of an inch, the nuclei small and commonly vesicular, and parent cells are frequently seen enclosing two or more younger cells. On the surface of the cartilage the cells are numerous, and disposed in isolated groups of two three, or four, the groups being flattened, and lying in planes parallel to the surface. In the interior, and nearer the bone, they are less numerous, and assume more or less of a linear direction, pointing towards the surface. This arrangement appears to be con- nected with a corresponding peculiarity of structure in the matrix, and serves to explain the disposition which this form of cartilage has to break in a direction perpendicular to the surface, the broken surface being to the eye striated in the same direction. In the costal cartilages the intercellular substance is very abundant, finely mottled, and, in certain situations, presents a distinctly fibrous structure, the fibres being fine and parallel. This is most evident in advanced age. The cells, which are collected into groups, are larger than in any other cartilages of the body, being from to ^ of an inch in diameter. Many contain two or more clear transparent nuclei, and some contain oil globules. Near the exterior of the cartilage the cells are flattened, and lie parallel with the surface; in the interior, the cells have a linear arrangement, the separate rows being turned in all directions. The ensiform cartilage of the sternum, the cartilages of the nose, and the cartilages of the larynx and windpipe (excepting the epiglottis and cornicula laryngis) resemble the costal cartilages in their microscopic characters. Reticular cartilage. The epiglottis, the cornicula laryngis, the cuneiform cartilages, the cartilage of the ear, of the eyelid, and of the Eustachian tube, are included in a separate class under the name of 'reticular,' 'yellow,' or 'spongy'cartilages. They are yellow, of a spongy texture throughout, more flexible than ordinary cartilage, and not prone to ossify. This variety of cartilage consists of an intercellular substance, composed of minute opaque fibres, which intersect each other in all directions, and are so arranged as to inclose numerous small oval spaces, in which the cartilage corpuscles are deposited. Articular cartilage forms a thin incrustation upon the articular surfaces of bones, and is admirably adapted, by its elastic property, to break the force of con- cussions, and, by its smoothness, to afford perfect ease and freedom of movement between the bones. Where it covers the rounded ends of bones, upon wrhich the greatest pressure is received, it is thick at the centre, and becomes gradually thinner tow^ards the circumference: an opposite arrangement exists vv^here it lines the corresponding cavities. On the articul^ surfaces of the short bones, as the carpus and tarsus, the cartilage is disposed in a layer of uniform thickness through- out. The attached surface of articular cartilage is closely adapted, by a rough, uneven surface, to the articular lamella; the free surface is smooth, polished, and partially covered by a perichondrium, prolonged from the periosteum, a short dis- tance over the cartilage; in the foetus, an extremely thin prolongation of synovial membrane may be traced over the surface of the cartilage, according to Toynbee, but, at a later period of life, this cannot be demonstrated. Articular cartilage in the adult does not contain blood-vessels; its 'nutrition being derived from the vessels of the synovial membrane which skirt the circumference of the cartilage, and from those of the adjacent bone, which are, however, separated from direct contact with the cartilage by means of the articular lamella. Mr. Toynbee has shown, that the minute vessels of the cancellous tissue, as they approach the articular lamella, dilate, and, forming arches, retui-n into the substance of the bone. The vessels of the synovial membrane also advance forwards upon the circum- ference of the cartilage for a very short distance, and then return in loops; they are only found on the parts not subjected to pressure. In the foetus, the vessels are said, by Toynbee, to advance for some distance upon the surface of the cartilage, beneath the synovial membrane; but Kolliker, from more recent examination,