OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 261 inspiration, the cavity of the thorax is enlarged in the vertical direction from two to three inches, partly from the ascent of the walls of the chest, partly from the descent of the Diaphragm. The chest, consequently, encroaches upon the abdomen; the lungs are expanded, and lowered, in relation with the ribs, nearly two inches; the heart being drawn down about an inch and a half; the descent of the latter organ taking place indirectly through the medium of its connection with the lungs, as well as directly by means of the central tendon to which the peri- cardium is attached. The abdominal viscera are also pushed down (the liver, to the extent of nearly three inches), so that these organs are no longer protected by the ribs. During expiration, when the Diaphragm is passive, it is pushed up by the action of the abdominal muscles; the cavity of the abdomen (with the organs contained in it), encroaches upon the chest, by which the lungs and heart are compressed upwards, and the vertical diameter of the thoracic civity diminished. The Diaphragm is passive when raised or loivered, by the abdominal organs, independently of respiration, in proportion as they are large or small, full or empty; hence the oppression felt in the chest after a full meal, or from flatulent distension of the stomach and intestines. In all expulsive acts, the Diaphragm is called into action, to give additional power to each expulsive effort. Thus, before sneezing, coughing, laughing, and crying; before vomiting; previous to the expulsion of the urine and faces, or of the foetus from the womb, a deep inspiration takes place.* MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The Muscles of the Upper Extremity are divisible into groups, corresponding with the different regions of the limb. Anterior Thoracic Region Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Subclavius. Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus magnus. Acromial Region. Deltoid. Anterior Scapular Region. Subscapularis. Posterior Scapular Region. Supraspinatus. Infraspinatus. Teres minor. Teres major. Anterior Humeral Region. Coraco-brachialis. Biceps. Brachialis anticus. Posterior Humeral Regio7i. Triceps. Subanconeus, * For a detailed description of the general relations of the Diaphragm, and its action, refer to Dr. Sibson's ' Medical Anatomy ' Anterior Brachial Region. Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radialis. Palmaris longus. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor i3rofuudus digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Radial Region. Supinator longus. Extensor carpi radialis lougior. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Posterior Brachial Region. 3 , j Extensor communis digitorum. «p I Extensor minimi digiti. j Extensor carpi ulnaris. • [Anconeus. ^Supinator brevis. u /Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. % Extensor primi internodii pollicis. •"^ 1-4 j Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. (Extensor indieis.