350 SURGICAL ANATOMY. The masseteric is a small branch which passes outwards above the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, to the deep surface of the Masseter, It supplies that muscle, and anastomoses with the masseteric branches of the facial and with the transverse facial artery. The buccal is a small branch which runs obliquely forwards between the Internal pterygoid and the ramus of the jaw, to the outer surface of the Buccinator, to which it is distributed, anastomosing with branches of the facial artery. Branches of the Third, or Spheno-Maxillary Portion. Alveolar. Vidian. Inf^-aorbital. Pterygo-palatine. Po^erior or Descending palatine. Nasal or Spheuo-palatine. The alveolar is given off from the internal maxillary by a common branch with the infra-oi'bital, and just as the trunk of the vessel is passing into the spheno- maxillary fossa. Descending upon the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, it divides into numerous branches; one, the superior dental, larger than the rest, supplies the molar and bicuspid teeth, its branches entering the foramina in the alveolar process; some branches pierce the bone to supply the lining of the antrum, and others are continued forwards on the alveolar process to supply the gums. The infraorbital appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of the trunk of the internal maxillary. It arises from that vessel by a common ti'unk with the preceding branch, and runs along the infraorbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, emerging upon the face at the infraorbital foramen, beneath the Levator labii superioris. Whilst contained in the canal, it gives off branches which ascend into the orbit, and supply the Inferior rectus, and Inferior oblique muscles, and the lachrymal gland. Other branches descend through canals in the bone, to supply the mucous membrane of the antrum, and the front teeth of the upper jaw. On the face, it supplies the lachrymal sac, and inner angle of the orbit, anastomosing with the facial artery and nasal branch of the oijhthalmic; and other branches descend beneath the elevator of the upper lip, and anastomose with the transverse facial and buccal branches. The four remaining branches arise from that portion of the internal maxillary which is contained in the sjsheno-maxillary fossa. The descending palatine passes down along the posterior palatine canal with the posterior palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion, and emerging from the posterior palatine foramen, runs forwards in a groove on the inner side of the alveolar border of the hard palate, to be distributed to the gums, the mucous membrane of the hard palate, and palatine glands. Whilst it is contained in the palatine canal, it gives off branches, which descend in the accessory palatine canals to supply the soft palate, anastomosing with the ascending palatine artery; and anteriorly it terminates in a small vessel, which ascends in the anterior palatine canal, and anastomoses with the artery of the septum, a branch of the spheno-palatine. The Vidian branch passes backwards along the Vidian canal with the Vidian nerve. It is distributed to the upper part of the pharynx and Eustachian tube, sending a small branch into the tympanum. The pterygoid-palatine is also a very small branch, which passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal with the pharyngeal nerve, and is distributed to the upper part of the pharynx and Eustachian tube. The nasal or spheno-palatine passes through the spheno-palatine foramen into the cavity of the nose, at the back part of the superior meatus, and divides into two branches; one internal, the artery of the septum, passes obliquely downwards and forwards along the septum nasi, supplies the mucous membrane, and anasto- moses in front with the ascending branch of the descending palatine. The external branches, two or three in number, supply the mucous membrane covering the lateral wall of the nose, the antrum, and the ethmoid and sphenoid cells.