ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 640 and pancreatico-duodenal branches of the hepatic, and the inferior pancreatico- duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric. The veins terminate in the gastro- duodenalj and superior mesenteric. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus. The jejunum {jejimus, empty), so called from being usually found empty after death, includes the upper two-fifths of the rest of the small intestine. It com- mences at the duodenum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and terminates in the ileum; its convolutions being chiefly confined to the umbilical and left iliac regions. The jejunum is wider, its coats thicker, more vascular, and of a deeper colour than those of the ileum ; but there is no characteristic mark to distinguish the termination of the one, and the commencement of the other. The ileum (etXetv, to twist), so called from its numerous coils or convolutions, includes the remaining three-fifths of the small intestine. It occupies chiefly the umbilical, hypogastric, right iliac, and occasionally the pelvic, regions, and ter- minates in the right iliac fossa by opening into the inner side of the commence- ment of the large intestine. The ileum is narrower, its coats thinner and less vascular than those of the jejunum; a given length of it weighing less than the same length of jejunum. Structure. The wall of the small intestine is composed of four coats; serous, muscular, cellular, and mucous. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum. The first, or ascending por- tion of the duodenum, is almost completely surrounded by this membrane; the second, or descending poi'tion, is covered by it only in front; and the third, or transverse, portion lies behind the descending layer of the transverse meso-colon, by which it is covei-ed in front. The remaining portion of the small intestine is surrounded by the peritoneum, excepting along its attached or mesenteric border; here a space is left for the vessels and nerves to pass to the gut. The muscular coat consists of two layers of fibres, an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular layer. The longitudinal fibres are thinly scattered over the surface of the intestine, and are most distinct along its free border. The circular fibres form a thick, uniform layer; they surround the cylinder of the intestine in the greater part of its circumference, but do not form complete rings. The muscular coat is thicker at the upper, than at the lower part of the small intestine, ' The cellular, or submucous coat, connects together the mucous and muscular layers. It consists of a loose, filamentous, areolar tissue, which forms a nidus for the subdivision of the nutrient vessels, previous to their distribution to the mucous surface. The mucous membrane is thick and highly vascular at the upper part of the small intestine, but somewhat paler and thinner below. It presents for examina- tion the following constituents: .,1 ,. Simple follicles. Epithelium. r ^ 1 1 j , 1 • , Duodenal elands. Valvula3 conniventes. r^^ i J o i-^ 11 Glands, s Solitary glands, [ Agminate or Peyer's glands. The epithelium, covering the mucous membrane of the small intestine, is of the columnar variety. The valvulce conniventes (valves of Kerkring) are reduplications or foldings of the mucous membrane and sulimucous tissue, containing no muscular fibres. They extend transversely across the cylinder of the intestine for about three fourths or five-sixths of its circumference. The larger folds are about two inches in length, and two-thirds of an inch in depth at their broadest part; but the greater number are of smaller size. The larger and smaller folds alternate with each other. They are not found at the commencement of the duodenum, but begin to appear about one or two inches beyond the pylorus. In the lower part of the