LITHOTOMY. 756 withdrawn, aud the fore-finger of the left hand passed along the staff into the bladder; the statf having been withdrawn, and the position of the stone deter- mined upon, the forceps are introduced over the fiuger into the bladder. If the stone is very large, the opposite side of the prostate may be notched before the forceps is introduced; the finger is now withdrawn, the blades of the forceps opened, and made to grasp the stone, which must be extracted by slow and cautious undulating movements. Parts divided in the operation. The various structures divided in this operation are as follows: the integument, superficial fascia, external hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urins, the Transversus perinsi muscle and artery (and, probably, the superficial perinatal vessels and nerves), the deep perinseal fascia, the anterior fibres of the Levator ani, part of the Compressor uretla-ffi, the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra, and part of the prostate gland. 393.—A transverse Section of the Pelvis; shewing the Pelvic Fascia. Parts to be avoided in the operation. In making the necessary incisions in the pcriniEum for the extraction of a calculus, the following parts should be avoided. The primary incisions should not be made too near the middle line, for fear of wounding the bulb of the corpus spongiosum or the rectum; nor too far externally, otherwise the pudic artery may be implicated as it ascends along the inner border of the pubic arcli. If the incisions are carried too far forward, the artery of the bulb may be divided; if carried too far backwards, the entire breadth of the prostate and neck of the bladder may be cut through, which allows the urine to become infiltrated behind the pelvic fascia into tlie loose cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum, instead of escaping externally; diffuse inflammation is, consequently set up, and peritonitis from the close proximity of the recto-vcsical peritoneal fold is the consequence. If, on the contrary, the prostate is divided in front of the base of the gland, the urine makes its way externally, and there is less danger of infiltration taking place. During the operation, it is of great importance that the finger should be passed