RIBS WITH VERTEBRA. 167 sets. I. Those which connect the heads of the ribs with the bodies of the vertebrae; 2. Those which connect the neck and tubercle of the ribs with the transverse processes. I. Articulation between the Heads of the Ribs and the Bodies OF THE Vertebra. These constitute a series of ginglyraoid joints, formed by the articulation of the heads of the ribs with the cavities on the contiguous margins of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, connected together by the following ligaments:— Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate. Capsular. Interarticular. The Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate Ligament (fig. 124) connects the an- terior part of the head of each rib, with the sides of the bodies of the vertebra, and the intervening interverte- bral disc. It consists of three flat bundles of li- gamentous fibres, which radiate from the ante- rior part of the head of the rib. The superior fas- ciculus passes upwards to be connected with the body of the vertebra above; the inferior one descends to the body of the vertebra below; and the middle one, the smallest and least dis- tinct, passes horizontally inwards to be attached to the intervertebral substance. Relations. In front, with thethoracicganglia of the sympathetic, the pleura, and, on the right side, with the vena azygos major; behind, with the interarticular ligament and synovial membranes. In the first rib, which articulates with a single vertebra only, this ligament does not present a distinct division into three fasciculi; its superior fibres, however, pass to be attached to the body of the Jast cervical vertebra, as well as to the body of the vertebra with which the rib sittiteu-laies. In the eleventh and twelfth ribs, which also articulate with a singfe v^i?.ff|W, the same division does not exist; but the upper fibres of the ligament;, in'each case, are connected with the vertebi'a above, as well as that with which the ribs articulate. The Capsular Ligament is a thin and loose ligamentous bag, which surrounds the joint between the head of the rib and the articular cavity formed by the junc- tion of the vertebrae. It is very thin, firmly connected with the anterior ligament, and most distinct at the upper and lower parts of the articulation. The Interarticular Ligament is situated in the interior of the joint. It consists of a short band of fibres, flattened from above downwards, attached by one extremity to the sharp crest on the head of the rib, and by the other to the intervertebral disc. It divides the joint into two cavities, which have no communication with 124.—Costo-vertebral and Costo-transveise Articulations. Anterior View.