732 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA. anterior superior spine of the ilium, to the spine of the pubes, is termed Poupart's ligament, or the crural arch; and that portion which is inserted into the pectineal line, is termed Gimbernat's ligament. Just above and to the outer side of the crest of the pubes, a triangular interval is seen in the aponeurosis of the External oblique, called the external abdominal ring; it transmits the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. This aperture is oblique in direction, somewhat triangular in form, and corresponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It usually measures from base to apex about an inch, and transversely about half an inch. It is bounded below by the crest of the os pubis; above, by a series of curved fibres, the inter columnar, which pass across the upper angle of the ring so as to increase its strength; and on either side, by the free borders of the aponeurosis, which are called the columns or jnllars of the ring. The external pillar, which, at the same time, is inferior from the obliquity of its direction, is the stronger; it is formed by that portion of Poupart's ligament which is inserted into the spine of the pubes; it is curved round the spermatic cord, so as to form a kind of groove, upon which the cord rests. The internal or superior pillar is a broad, thin, flat band, which interlaces with its fellow of the opposite side, in front of the symphysis pubis, that of the right side being superficial. The external abdominal ring gives passage to the spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female; it is much larger in men than women, on account of the large size of the spermatic cord, and hence the greater frequency of inguinal hernia in the former sex. The intercolumnar fibres are a series of curved tendinous fibres, which arch across the lower part of the aponeurosis of the External oblique. They have received their name from stretching across between the two pillars of the external ring; they increase the strength of the membrane which bounds the upper part of this aperture, and prevent the divergence of the pillars from one another. They are thickest below, where they are connected to the outer third of Poupart's ligament, and taking a curvilinear course, the convexity of which is directed downwards, are inserted into the linea alba. They are much thicker and stronger at the outer angle of the external ring than internally, and ai-e more strongly developed in the male than in the female. These fibres are continuous with a thin fascia, which is closely connected to the margins of the external ring, and has received the name of the intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia; it forms a tubular prolongation around the outer surface of the cord and testis, and encloses them in a distinct sheath. The sac of an inguinal hernia, in passing through the external abdominal ring, receives an investment from the intercolumnar fascia. The finger should be introduced a short distance into the extei-nal ring, and then, if the limb is extended and rotated outwards, the aponeurosis of the External oblique, together with the iliac portion of the fascia lata, will be felt to Ijecome tense, and the external ring much contracted; if the limb is, on the contraiy, flexed upon the pelvis and rotated inwards, this aponeurosis will become lax, and the external ring sufficiently enlarged to admit the finger with comparative ease; hence the patient should always be put in tlie latter position when the taxis is applied for the reduction of an inguinal hernia, in order that the abdominal Avails may be as much relaxed as possible. The aponeurosis of the External oblique should be removed by dividing it across in the same direction as the external incisions, and reflecting it outwards; great care is requisite in separating it from the aponeurosis of the muscle beneath. The lower part of the Internal oblique and the Cremaster are then exjiosed, together with the inguinal canal, which contains the spermatic cord (fig. 380). The mode of insertion of Poupart's and Gimbernat's ligaments into the pubes should also be examined. l^oupar£s ligament, or the crural arch, extends from the anterior suj^erior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubes. It is also attached to the pectineal line to the extent of about an inch, forming Gimbernat's ligament. Its general