6l2 ORGANS OF SENSE. aqueductus cochlecs, which leads to a minute funnel-shaped canal, which opens on the basilar surface of the petrous bone, and transmits a small vein. The interior of the spiral canal is divided into two passages (scuIcb) by a thin, "osseous, and membranous lamina, which winds spirally round the modiolus. This is the lamina spiralis, the essential part of the cochlea upon which the nerve tubules are distributed. The osseous part of the spiral lamina extends about half way across the diameter of the spiral canal; it is called the osseous zone. It commences in the vestibule between the tympanic and vestibular opening of the cochlea, and, gradually becoming narrower in its course, terminates in a projecting hook, the hamular process, just where the expansion of the infundibulum com- mences. The lamina spiralis consists of two thin lamellEe of bone, between which are numerous canals for the passage of nervous filaments, which open chiefly on the lower or tympanic surface. At the point where the osseous lamina is attached to the modiolus, and following its windings, is a small canal, called by Rosenthal, the canalis spiralis modioli. In the recent state, the osseous zone is continued to the opposite wall of the canal by a membranous and muscular layer (membranous zone), so as to form a complete partition in the tube of the cochlea. Two passages, or scalse, are thus formed, by the division of the canal of the cochlea into two. One, the scala tympani, is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra rotunda; the other, the scala vestibuli, communicates, by an oval aperture, with the vestibule. Near the termination of the scala vestibuli, close by the fenestra rotunda, is the orifice of the aqueductus cochleae. The scalffi communicate, at the apex of the cochlea, by an opening common to both, the helicotrema, which exists in consequence of the deficiency of the lamina spiralis in the last half coil of the canal. In structure, the membranous zone is a transparent glassy lamina, presenting near its centre a number of minute transverse lines, which radiate outwards, and give it a fibrous appearance; and at its circumference, where connected with the outer wall of the spiral canal, it is composed of a semi-transparent structure, which is described by Todd and Bowman as a muscle (the Cochlearis), and by Kolliker as connective tissue. The vestibular surface of the osseous portion of the lamina spiralis is covered for about the outer fifth of its surface, with a thin layer, resembling cartilage in texture. It is described as the denticulate lamina (Todd and Bowman), from its presenting a series of wedge-shaped teeth which form its free margin, and which project into the vestibular scalae. The inner surface of the osseous labyrinth is lined by an exceedingly thin fibro-serous membrane, analogous to a periosteum, from its close adhesion to the inner surface of these cavities, and performing the ofiice of a serous membrane by its free surface. It lines the vestibule, and from this cavity is continued into the semicircular canals and the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, and through the heli- co(;rema into the scala tympani. Two delicate tubular processes are prolonged along the aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea, to the inner surface of the dura mater. This membrane is continued across the fenestra ovalis and rotunda, and consequently has no communication with the lining membrane of the tympanum. Its attached surface is rough and fibrous, and closely adherent to the bone; its free surfiice is smooth and pale, covered with a layer of epithelium, and secretes a thin, limpid fluid, the aqua labyrintlii {perilymph [Blainville], liquor Cotunnii). In the vestibule and semicircular canals, it separates the osseous from the mem- branous labyrinth; but in the cochlea it lines the two surfaces of the bony lamina spiralis; and being continued from its free margin across the canal to its outer wall, forms the lamina spiralis membranacea, serving to complete the separation between the two scalffi. The Membranous Labyrinth. The membranous labyrinth (fig. 318) is a closed membranous sac, containing fluid. The ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed upon the wall of the sac.