ORGANS OF SENSE. 588 the fibrous sheath of the nerve, which is derived from the dura mater. At the point where the optic nerve passes tlirougli tlie sclerotic, this membrane forms a thin cribriform lamina (the lamina cribrosa); tlie minute orifices in this layer serve for the transmission of the nervous filaments, and the fibrous septa dividing them from one another are continuous with the membranous processes which separate the bundles of nerve-fibres. One of these openings, larger than the rest, occupies the centre of the lamella; it is called the porus opticus, and transmits tlie arteria centralis retina5 to the interior of the eyeball. Around the cribriform lamella are numerous smaller apertures for the transmission of tlie ciliary vessels and nerves. In front, the sclerotic is continuous with the cornea by direct continuity of tissue; but the opaque sclerotic overlaps the cornea rather more on its outer than upon its inner surface. Structure. The sclerotic is formed of white fibrous tissue intermixed with fine elastic fibres, and fusiform nucleated cells. These are aggregated into bundles, which are arranged chiefly in a longitudinal direction. It yields gelatin on boiling. Its vessels are not numerous, the capillaries being of small size, uniting at long and wide intervals. The existence of nerves in it is doubtful. The Cornea is the projecting transparent part of the external tunic of the eye- ball, and forms the anterior sixth of the globe. It is not quite circular, being a little broader in the transverse than in the vertical direction, in consequence of the sclerotic overlapping the margin above and below. It is concavo-convex, and projects forwards from the sclerotic in the same manner that a watch-glass dofes from its case. Its degree of curvature varies in different individuals, and in the same individual at different periods of life, it being more pi'ominent in youth than in advanced life, when it becomes flattened. The cornea is dense, and of uniform thickness throughout, its posterior surface is perfectly circular in outline, and exceeds the anterior surface slightly in extent, from the latter being overlapped by the sclerotic. Structure. The cornea consists of five layers: namely, of a thick central fibrous structure, the cornea proper; in front of this is the anterior elastic lamina, covered by the conjunctiva; behind, the posterior elastic lamina, covered by the lining membrane of the anterior chamber of the eyeball. The proper substance of the cornea is fibrous, tough, unyielding, perfectly transparent, and continuous with the sclerotic, with which it is in structure identical. The anastomosing fusiform cells of which it is composed are arranged in superimposed flattened laniina3, at least sixty in number, all of which have the same direction, the contiguous laminfE becoming united at frequent intervals. If the relative position of the component parts of this tissue is in any way altered, either by pressure or by an increase of its natural tension, it immediately presents an opaque milky appearance. The interstices between the lamincS are tubular, and usually contain a small amount of transparent fluid. The anterior and posterior elastic lamince, which cover the proper structure of the cornea behind and in front, present an analogous structure. They consist of a hard, elastic, and perfectly transparent homogeneous membrane, of extreme thinness, which is not rendered opaque by either water, alcohol, or acids. This membrane is intimately connected by means of a fine cellular web to the proper substance of the cornea both in front and behind. Its most remarkable property is its extreme elasticity, and the tendency which it presents to curl up, or roll upon itself, with the attached surface innermost, when separated from the propei- substance of the cornea. Its use appears to be (as suggested by Dr. Jacob), ' to preserve the requisite pei'manent correct curvature of the flaccid cornea proper.' The conjunctival epithelium, which covers the front of the anterior elastic lamina, consists of two or three layers of transparent nucleated cells, the deepest l)eing of an oblong form and placed perpendicular to the surface, the superficial ones more flattened. The epithelial liiiing of the aqueous chamber covers the posterior surface of the