SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL REGION. 223 It is a strong fibrous layer, which invests the muscles of the neck, and encloses the vessels and nerves. It commences, as an extremely thin layer, at the back part of the neck, where it is attached to the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae, and to the ligamentum nuchas ; and, passing forwards to the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, divides into two layers, one of which "passes in front, and the other behind that muscle. These join again at the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid; and, being continued forwards to the front of the neck, blend with the fascia of the opposite side. The superficial layer of the deep cervical fascia (that which passes in front of the Sterno-mastoid), if traced upwards, is found to pass across the parotid gland and Masseter muscle, forming the parotid and masseteric fascijE, and is attached to the lower border of the zygoma, and more anteriorly to the lower border of the body of the jaw; if the same layer is traced downwards, it is seen to pass to the upper border of the clavicle and sternum, being pierced just above the former bone by the external jugular vein. In the middle line of the neck, the fascia is thin above, and con- nected to the hyoid bone; but it becomes thicker below, and divides, just below the thyroid gland, into two layers, the moi'e superficial of which is attached to the upper border of the sternum and interclavicular ligament; the deeper and stronger layer is connected to the posterior border of that bone, covering in the Sterno-iiyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Between these two layers is a littl areolar tissue and fat, and occasionally a small lymphatic gland. The deep lay of the cervical fascia (that which lies behind thi6''posterior surface of the Ster mastoid) sends numerous prolongations, which invest the .muscles and vessel the neck; if traced upwards, a process of this fascia, of extreme density, is ff passing behind and to the inner side of the parotid gland, to be attached tc base of the styloid process and angle of the lower jaw, termed the stylo-maxi ligament; if traced downwards and outwards, the fascia will be found to en the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid hauscle, binding it down by a distinct cess, which descends to be inserted into the clavicle and cartilage of the first The deep layer of the cervical fascia also assists in forming the sheath which closes the common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pueumogastric nervi There are fibrous septa intervening between each of these parts, which, however, are included together in one common investment. More internally, a thin layer is continued across the trachea and thyroid gland, beneath the Sterno-thyroid muscles; and at the root of the neck this may be traced, over the large vessels, to be continuous with the fibrous layer of the pericardium. The Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid (fig. 153) is a large thick muscle, which passes obliquely across the side of the neck, being enclosed between the two layers of the deep cervical fascia. It is thick and narrow at its central part, but is broader and thinner at each extremity. It arises, by two heads, from the sternum and clavicle. The sternal portion is a rounded fasciculus, tendinous in front, fleshy behind, which arises from the upper and anterior part of the first piece of the sternum, and is directed upwards and backwards. The clavicular portion arises from the inner third of the superior border of the clavicle, being composed of fleshy and aponeurotic fibres; it is directed almost vertically upwards. These two jjortions are separated from one another, at their origin, by a triangular cellular interval; but become gradually blended, below the middle of the neck, into a thick rounded muscle, which is inserted, by a strong tendon, into the outer surface of the mastoid process, from its apex to its superior border, and by a thin aponeurosis into the outer two-thii'ds of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The Sterno-mastoid varies much in its extent of attachment to the clavicle: in one case the clavicular may be as narrow as the sternal portion; in another, as much as three inches in breadth. When the clavicular origin is broad, it is occasionally subdivided into numerous slips, separated by narrow intervals. More i-arely, the corresponding margins of the Sterno-mastoid and Trapezius have been found in contact. In the application of a ligature -io the third part of the subclavian artery, it will be necessary, where the muscles co>ne close together, to divide a portion of one or of both. /