ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 642 337.—Patch of Peyer's Glands. From the lower part of the Ileum from half an inch to four inches. They are largest and most numerous in the ileum. In the lower part of the jejunum they ai'e smaH, of a circular form, and few in number, they are occasionally seen in the duodenum. They are placed lengthwise in the intestine, covering the portion of the tube most distant from the attachment of the mesentery. Each patch is formed of a group of small, round, whitish vesicles, covered with mucous membrane. Each vesicle consists of a moderately thick ex- ternal capsule, having no excretory duct, and containing an opaque white secretion. Each is surrounded by a zone, or wreath of simple follicles, and the interspaces between them are covered witli villi. These vesicles are usually closed; but it is supposed they open at intervals to discharge the secretion contained within them. The mucous and submucous coats of the intestine are inti- mately adherent, and highly vascular, oppo- site the Peyerian glands. Their use is not known. They are largest and most de- veloped during the digestive process. The Large Intestine. The large intestine extends from the termination of the ileum to the anus. It is about five feet in length; being one-fifth of the whole extent of the intestinal canal, It is largest at its commencement at the CEecum, and gradually diminishes as far as the rectum, where there is a dilatation of considerable size, just above the anus. It differs from the small intestine in its greater size, its more fixed position, and its saccu- lated form. The large intestine, in its course, describes an arch, which surrounds the convolutions of the small intestine. It commences in the right iliac fossa, in a dilated part, the caecum. It ascends through the right lumbar and hypochondriac regions, to the under surface of the liver; passes transversely across the abdomen, on the confines of the epigastric and umbilical r(,'gions, region; 338—A portion of the above magnified. descends through the left lumbar region to the left to the left hypochondriac iliac fossa, where it becomes convoluted, and forms the sigmoid flexure; finally, it enters the pelvis, and descends along its posterior wall to the anus. The large intestine is divided into the. ctecum, colon, and rectum. The CcEcum [ccecus, blind), is the large blind pouch, or cul-de-sac, in which the large intestine commences. It is the most dilated part of this tube, measuring about t^yo and a half inches, both in its vertical and transverse diameters. It is situated in the right iliac fossa, immediately behind the anterior abdominal wall, being retained in its place by the peritoneum, which passes over its anterior surface and sides; its posterior surface being connected by loose areolar tissue Avilh the iliac fascia. Occasionally, it is almost completely surrounded by peri- toneum, which forms a distinct fold, the meso-ca;cum, connecting its back part with the iliac fossa. This fold allows the cfficum considerable freedom of move- ment. Attached to its lower and back part, is the appendix vermiformis, a long, narrow, worm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengthened cascum found in all