OSTEOLOGY. 128 obliquity at various periods of life, and under different circumstances. Before puberty, it is directed obliquely, so as to form a gentle curve from the axis of the sLkaft. In the adult male, it forms an obtuse angle with the shaft, being directed upwards, inwards, and a little forwards. In the female, it approaches more nearly a right angle. Occasionally, in very old subjects, and more especially in those greatly debilitated, its direction becomes horizontal, so that the head sinks below the level of the trochanter, and its length diminishes to such a degree, that the head becomes almost contiguous with the shaft. The neck is flattened from before backwards, contracted in the midle, and broader at its outer extremity, where it is connected with the shaft, than at its summit, where it is attached to the head. It is much broader in the vertical than in the antero-posterior diameter, and much thicker below than above, on account of the greater amount of resistance required in sustaining the weight of the trunk. The anterior surface of the neck is per- forated by numerous vascular foramina. The posterior surface is smooth, and is broader, and more concave than the an- terior; it receives towards its outer side the attachment of the capsular ligament of the hip. The superior border is short and thick, bounded externally by the great trochanter, and its surface perforated by large foramina. The inferior border, long and narrow, curves a little backwards, to terminate at the lesser trochanter. The Trochanters (rpo^j^ao), to run or roll) are prominent processes of bone which afford leverage to the muscles which rotate the thigh on its axis. They are two in number, the greater, and the lesser. The Great Trochanter is a large irregular quadrilateral eminence, situated at the outer side of the neck, at its junc- tion with the upper part of the shaft. It is directed a little outwards and back- wai'ds; and, in the adult, is about three quarters of an inch lower than the head. It presents for examination two surf\ices, and four borders. The external surface, quadrilateral in form, is broad, rough, convex, and marked by a pi-omiuent diagonal line, which extends from the posterior superior to the anterior inferior angle: this line serves for the attachment of the tendon of the Gluteus medius. 103.—Right Femur. Anterior Surface. OOIURATOR PVR S hufi