OSTEOLOGY. 92 circumference of the articular surface is rough, for the attachment of numerous ligaments. This surface is continuous with the costal facet on the inner end of the inferior or subclavian surface, which articulate with the cartilage of the first rib. The outer or acromial extremity, directed outwards and forwards, presents a small, flattened, oval facet, which looks obliquely downwards and inwards, for articulation with the acromion process of the scapula. The direction of this surface serves to explain the greater frequency of dislocation of this bone upon, and not beneath, the acromion process. The circumference of the articular facet is rough, especially above, for the attachment of the acromio-clavicular ligaments. Peculiarities of the Bone in the Sexes and in Individuals. In the female, the clavicle is generally less curved, smoother, and more slender than in the male. In those persons who perform considerable manual labour, which brings into constant action the muscles connected with this bone, it acquires considerable bulk, becomes shorter, more curved, its ridges for muscular attachment become prominently marked, and its sternal end of a prismatic or quadrangular form. The right clavicle is generally heavier, thicker, and rougher, and often shorter, than the left. Structure. The shaft, as well as the extremities, consists of cancellous tissue, invested in a compact layer much thicker in the centre than at either end. The clavicle is highly elastic, by reason of its curves. From the experiments of Mr. Ward, it has been shown that it possesses sufl[icient longitudinal elastic foi'ce, to project its own weight nearly two feet on a level surface, when a smart blow is struck on it, and sufficient transverse elastic force, opposite the centre of its anterior convexity, to throw its own weight about a foot. This extent of elastic power must serve to moderate very considerably the effect of concussions received upon the point of the shoulder. Development. By tivo centres: one for the shaft, and one for the sternal extre- mity. The centre for the shaft appears very early, before any other bone; the centre for the sternal end makes its appearance about the eighteenth or twentieth year, and unites with the rest of the bone a few years after. Articulations. With the sternum, scapula, and cartilage of the first rib. Attachment of Muscles. The Sterno-cleido mastoid, Trapezius, Pectoralis major, Deltoid, Subclavius, and Sterno-hyoid. The Scapula. The Scapula forms the back part of the shoulder. It is a large flat bone, triangular in shape, situated at the posterior aspect and side of the thorax, between the first and eighth ribs, its posterior border or base, being about an inch from, and nearly parallel with, the spinous processes of the vertebrae. It presents for examination two surfaces, three borders, and three angles. The anterior surface, or venter (fig. 84), presents a broad concavity, the sub- scapular fossa. It is marked, in the posterior two thirds, by several oblique ridges, which pass from behind obliquely forwards and upwards, the anterior third being smooth. The oblique ridges, above mentioned, give attachment to the tendinous intersections, and the_ surfaces between them, to the fleshy fibres, of the Subscapu- lars muscle. The anterior third of the fossa, which is smooth, is covered by, but does not afibrd attachment to, the fibres of this muscle. This surface is sepa- rated from the posterior border by a smooth triangular margin at the superior and inferior angles, and in the interval between these, by a narrow edge which is often deficient. This marginal surface affords attachment throughout its entire extent to the Serratus maguus muscle. The subscapular fossa presents a trans- verse depression at its upper part, called the subscapular angle; it is in this situ- ation that the fossa is deepest; and consequently the thickest part of the Subscapularis muscle lies in a line parallel with the glenoid cavity, and must consequently operate most effectively on the humerus which is contained in it.