URINARY ORGANS. 704 of which is directed forwards; this is the trigonum vesicce, or trigone vesicate. It is paler in colour than the rest of the mucous membrane, and never presents any rugae, even in the collapsed condition of the organ, owing to its intimate adhesion to the subjacent tissues. It is bounded on each side by two slight ridges, which pass backwards and outwards to the orifices of the ureters, and cor- respond with the muscles of these tubes; and at each posterior angle, by the orifices of the ureters, which are placed nearly two inches from each other, and about an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra. The trigone corresponds with the interval at the base of the bladder. 369. -The Bladder and Urethra laid open. Seen from above. i^f Causers KJautls bounded by the prostate in front, and the vesiculas and vasa deferentia on the sides. Projecting from the lower and anterior part of the bladder, into the orifice of the urethra, is a slight elevation of mucous membrane, called the uvula vesicce. It is formed by a thickening of the prostate. The arteries supplying the bladder are the superior, middle, and inferior vesical, in the male, with additional branches from the uterine, in the female. They are all derived from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac. The veins form a complicated plexus round the neck, sides, and base of the oladder, and terminate in the internal iliac vein. The lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels, passing through the glands surrounding them. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric and sacral plexuses; the former supplying the upper part of the organ, the latter its base and neck. Male Urethra. The urethra extends from the neck of the bladder to the meatus urinarius. It is curved in its course, so as to re- semble, in the flaccid state of the penis, the italic letter ; but in the erect state it forms only a single curve, the con- cavity of which is directed upwards. Its length varies from eight to nine inches; and it is divided into three portions, the prostatic, membranous, and spongy, the structure and relations of which are essentially different. The Prostatic portion is the widest and most dilatable part of the canal. It passes tlirough the prostate gland, from its base to its apex, lying nearer its upper than its lower surface. It is about an inch and a quarter in length; and the form of the canal is spindle-shaped, being wider in the middle than at either extremity, and narrowest in front, where it joins the membranous portion. A transverse section of the canal in this situation is triangular, the apex directed downwards. Upon the floor of the canal is a narrow longitudinal ridge, the veru montanum, or caput gallinaginis, formed by an elevation of the mucous membrane and its