322 SURGICAL ANATOMY. Relations. By its under surface, with the tendons of the long and sliort Flexors and Lurabricales. By its upper surface, with the Interossei. Fourth Layer. The Interossei. The Interossei muscles in the foot are simi- lar to those in the hand; if their action be referred to the middle line of the second toe, instead of ^e middle line of the whole mem- ber, as in the hand. They are seven in number, and consist of two groups, dorsal and plantar. The Dorsal Interossei, four in number, are situated between the metatarsal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metatarsal bones between which they are placed, their tendons being inserted into the bases of the first pha- langes, and into the aponeurosis of the common extensor tendon. In the angular interval left between each muscle at its posterior extremity, the perforating arteries pass to the dorsum of the foot; except in the first Interosseous muscle, where the interval allows the passage of the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis artery. The first Dorsal interosseous muscle is inserted into the inner side of the second toe; the other three are inserted into the outer sides of the second, third, and fourth toes. They are all abductors from the middle line of the second toe. The Plantar Interossei, three in number, lie beneath, rather than between, the metatarsal bones. They are single muscles, and are each connected with but one metatarsal bone. They arise from the base and inner sides of the shaft of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and are inserted into the inner sides of the bases of the first phalanges of the same toes, and into the aponeurosis of the common extensor tendon. These muscles are all abductors towards the middle line of the second toe. Nerves. The internal plantar nerve supplies the Abductor pollicis, Flexor brevis digitorum, Flexor brevis pollicis, and the first and second Lumbricales. The external plantar nerve sup- plies the Abductor minimi digiti, Flexor aecessorius, third and fourth Lumbricales, Ab- ductor pollicis, Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Transversus pedis, and all the Interossei,. SURGICAL ANATOMY. The student should now consider the effects pro- duced by the action of the various muscle's-in frac- tures of the bones of the lower extremity. The more common forms of fracture are selected for illustration and desci iption. 197.—The Dorsal Interossei. Left Fogt. -The Plantar Interossei. Left Foot.