146 OSTEOLOGY. upwards, the broadest edge being towards the holder, and the smooth facet (limited to the posterior border) will point to the side to which it belongs. Articulations. With four bones; scaphoid, internal and external cuneiform, and second metatarsal bone. The External Cuneiform. The External Cuneiform, intermediate in size between the two preceding, is of a very regular wedge-like form, the broad extremity being placed upwards, the narrow end downwards. It occupies the centre of the front row of the tarsus between the middle cuneiform internally, the cuboid externally, the scaphoid behind, and the third metatarsal in front. It is distinguished from the internal cuneiform bone by its more regular wedge-like shape, and the absence of the kidney-shaped articular surface: from the middle cuneiform, by the absence of the bent, or angular, facet, and by the two articular facets which mark its inner and outer surfaces. It has six surfaces for examination. The anterior surface, triangular in form, articulates with the third metatarsal bone. The posterior surface articulates with the most external facet of the scaphoid, and is rough below for the attachment of ligamentous fibres. The internal surface presents two articular facets separated by a rough depression; the anterior one, situated at the superior angle of the bone, articulates with the outer side of the base of the second metatarsal bone; the posterior one skirts the posterior border, and articulates with the middle cuneiform; the rough depression between the two gives attachment to an interosseous ligament. The external surface also presents two articular facets, separated by a rough nonarticular surface; the anterior facet, situated at the superior angle of the bone, is small, and articulates with the inner side of the base of the fourth metatarsal, the posterior, and larger one, articulates with the cuboid; the rough nonarticular surface serves for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. The three facets for articulation with the three metatarsal bones are continuous with one another, and covered by a prolongation of the same cartilage; the facets for articulation with the middle cuneiform and scaphoid are also continuous, but that for articulation with the cuboid is usually separate. The superior or dorsal surface, of an oblong form, is rough for the attachment of liga- ments. The inferior or plantar surface is an obtuse rounded margin, and serves for the attachment of part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, part of the Flexor brevis pollicis, and ligaments. To ascertain to which side it belongs, hold the bone with the broad dorsal surface upwards, the prolonged edge backwards; the separate articular facet for the cuboid will point to the proper side. Articulations. With six bones: the scaphoid, middle cuneiform, cuboid, and second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles. Part of Tibialis posticus, and Flexor brevis pollicis. The Metatarsal Bones. The Metatarsal bones are five in number; they are long bones, and subdivided into a shaft, and two extremities. Common characters. The Shaft is prismoid in form, tapers gradually from the tarsal to the phalangeal extremity, and is slightly curved longitudinally, so as to be concave below, slightly convex above. The Posterior Extremity, or Base, is wedge-shaped, articulating by its terminal surface with the tarsal bones, and by its lateral surfaces with the contiguous bones; its dorsal and plantar surfaces being rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The Anterior Extremity, or Head, presents a terminal rounded articular surface, oblong from above downwards, and extending further backwards below than above. Its sides are flattened, and present a depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for ligamentous attachment. Its under surface is grooved in the middle line, for the passage of the Flexor tendon, and marked on each side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface.