389 ABDOMINAL AORTA. the gi'eatest convexity corresponding to the third lumbar vertebra; which is a little above and to the left side of the umbilicus. Relations. It is covered, iii front, by the lesser omentum and stomach, behind which are the branches of the coeliac axis, and the solar plexus; below these, by the splenic vein, the pancreas, the left renal vein, the transverse portion of the duodenum, the mesentery, and aortic plexus. Behind, it is separated from the lumbar vertebraB by the left lumbar veins, the receptaculum chyli, and thoracic duct. On the right side, it is in relation with the inferior vena cava (the right crus of the Diaphragm being interposed above), the vena azygos, thoracic duct, and right semilunar ganglion; on the left side, with the sympathetic nerve, and left semilunar ganglion. Plan of the Relations of the Abdominal Aorta. In front. Lesser omentum and stomach. Branches of cojliac axis and solar plexus. Splenic vein. Pancreas. Left renal vein. Transverse duodenum. Mesentery. Aortic plexus. Right side. ^ Left side. Right cms of Diaphragm. ' \^ Sympathetic nerve. Inferior vena cava. / \ Left semilunar ganglion. Veua azygos. Abdominal Thoracic duct. \ Aorta. Right semilunar ganglion. Behind. Left lumbar veins. Receptaculum chyli. Thoracic duct. Vertebral column. Surgical Anatomy. Aneurisms of the abdominal aorta near the coelic axis communicate in nearly equal proportion with the anterior and posterior parts of this vessel. When an aneurismal sac is connected with the back part of the abdominal aorta, it Tisually produces absorption cf the bodies of the vertebrae, and forms a pulsating tumour, that presents itself in the left hypochondriac or epigastric regions, accompanied by symptoms of disturbance of the alimentary canal. Pain is invariably present, and is usually of two kinds, a fixed and constant pain in the back, caused by the tumour pressing on or displacing the branches of the solar plexus and splanchnic nerves, and a sharp lancinating pain, radiating along those branches of the lumbar nerves, which are pressed on by the tumour; hence the pain in the loins, the testes, the hypogastrium, and in the lower limb (usually of the left side). This form of aneurism usually bursts into the peritoneal cavity, or behind the peritoneum, in the left hypochondriac region ; or it may form a large aneurismal sac, extending down as low as Poupart's ligament; hsBmorrhage in these cases being generally very extensive, but slowly produced, and not rapidly fatal. When an aneurismal sac is connected with the front of the aorta near the ccEliac axis, it forms a pulsating tumour in the left hypochondriac or epigastric regions, usually attended with symptoms of disturbance of the alimentary canal, as sickness, dyspepsia, or consti- pation, a,nd accompauied by pain, which is constant, but nearly always fixed in the loins, epigastrium, or some part of the abdomen ; the radiating pain beuig rare, as the lumbar nerves are seldom implicated. This form of aneurism may burst into the peritoneal cavity, or behind the peritoneum, between the layers of the mesentery, or, more_ rarely, into the duodenum; it rarely extends backwards so as to effect the spine. The abdominal aorta has been tied several times, and although none of the cases have been successful, still as one of the patients survived till the tenth day, the possibility of the re-establishment of the circulation may be considered to be proved. The vessel may be reached in several ways. In the original operation, performed by Sir A. Cooper, an incision was made in the linea alba, the peritoneum opened in front, the finger carried down amongst the intestines towards the spine, the peritoneum again opened behind, by scratching through the mesentery, and the vessel thus reached. Or either of the operations, described below, for securing the common iliac artery, may, by extending the dissection a sufficient distance upwards, be made use of to expose the aorta. The chief difficulty in the dead subject consists in isolating the artery, in consequence of its great depth ; but in the living subject, the embarrassment resulting from the proximity of the aneurismal