539 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. ^Plan of the Brachial Plexus. m FhrenU Sa^TO' '£>ccejjf/Ittr -Line of Clcfvicls and forms a more dense interlacement in the axilla, and divides opposite the coracoid pi-ocess into numerous branches for the supply of the upper limb. The nerves which form the plexus are all similar in size, and their mode of communi- cation is the following.* The fifth and sixth nerves unite near their exit from the spine into a common trunk; the seventh nerve joins this trunk near the outer border of the Middle scalenus; and the three nerves thus form one large single cord. The eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves unite beneath the Anterior scalenus into a common trunk. Thus two large trunks are formed, the upper one by the union of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical; and the lower one by the eighth cervical and first dorsal. These two trunks accompany the subclavian artery to the axilla, lying upon its outer side, the trunk formed by the union of the last cervical and first dorsal being nearest to the vessel. Opposite the clavicle, and sometimes in the axilla, each of these cords gives off a fasciculus, by the union of which a third trunk is formed, so that in the centre of the axilla three cords are found, one lying on the outer side of the axillary artery, one on its inner side, and one behind. The brachial plexus com- municates with the cer- vical plexus by a branch from the fourth to the fifth nerve, and with the phrenic nerve by a branch from the fifth cervical, which joins that nerve on the Anterior scalenus muscle: the cervical and first dor- sal nerves are also joined by filaments from the mid- dle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, I j 1 close to their exit from the jtrtfc/i.A, intervertebral foramina. Relations. In the neck, the brachial plexus lies at first between the Anterior and Middle scaleni muscles, and then above and to the outer side of the subclavian artery; it then passes beneath the clavicle and Subclavius muscle, lying upon the first serration of the Serratus magnus and Subscajjularis muscles. In the axilla, it is placed on the outer side of the first portion of the axillary artery; it surrounds the artery in the second part of its course, one cord lying upon the outer side of that vessel, one on the inner side, and one behind it; and at the lower part of the axillary space gives off its terminal branches to the upper extremity. Branches. The branches of the brachial plexus are arranged into two gi'oups, viz., those given off above the clavicle, and those below that bone. Branches above the Clavicle. Communicating. Muscular. Posterior thoracic. Suprascapular. * This is the most common mode of ormation of the plexus; but it is also very common for the third, or posterior, cord to be formed by the seventh cervical nerve, running undivided, and receiving a branch fron; each of the other cords.