643 LARGE INTESTINE. the mammalia, except the ourang-outang and wombat. The appendix varies from three to six inches in length, its average diameter being about equal to that of a goose-quill. It is usually directed upwards and inwards behind the csecum, coiled upon itself, and terminates in a blunt point, being retained in its position by a fold of peritoneum, which sometimes forms a mesentery for it. Its canal is small, and communicates with the Cfficum by an orifice which is sometimes guarded with an incomplete valve. Its coats are thick, and its mucous lining furnished with a large number of solitary glands. Ileo-CcBcal Valve. The lower end of the ileum terminates at the inner and back part of the large intestine, opposite the junction of the csecura with the colon. At this point, the mucous membrane forms two valvular folds, which project into the large intestine, and are separated from each other by a narrow 339.—The Caecum and Colon laid open to shew the Ileo-Csecal Valve. elongated aperture. This is the ileo-ctecal valve {valvula Bauhini). Each fold is semilunar in form. The upper one, nearly horizontal in direction, is attached by its convex border to the point of junction of the ileum with the colon ; the lower segment, to the point of junction of the ileum with the ca3cum. Their free concave margins project into the intestine, separated from one another by a narrow slit-like aperture, directed transversely. At each end of this aperture, the two segments of the valve coalesce, and are continued, as a narrow mem- branous ridge, around the canal of the intestine for a short distance, forming the frcBna, or retinacula of the valve. The left end of this aperture is rounded: the right end is narrow and pointed. Each segment of the valve is formed by a reduplication of the mucous mem- brane, and of the circular muscular fibres of the intestine, the longitudinal fibres and peritoneum being continued uninterruptedly across from one intestine to the other. "When t^iese are divided or removed, the ileum may be draAvn outwards, and all traces of the valve will be lost, the ileum appearing to open into the lai-ge intestine by a funnel-shaped orifice of large size. The surface of each segment of the valve directed towards the ileum is covered with villi, and presents the characteristic structure of the mucous membrane of the small intestine; whilst that turned towards the large intestine is destitute of TT 2