i6o ARTICULATIONS. Actions. The movements permitted in the spinal column are, Flexion, Extension, Lateral movement, Circumduction, and Rotation. In Flexion, or movement of the spine forw^ards, the anterior common ligament is relaxed, and the intervertehral substances are compressed in front; while the posterior common ligament, the ligamenta subtlava, and the inter- and supra- spinous ligaments, ai-e stretched, as well as the posterior fibres of the interverte- bral discs. The interspaces between the laminas are widened, and the inferior articular processes of tlie vertebrte above glide upwards, upon the articular pro- cesses of the vertebra? below. Flexion is the most extensive of all the movements of the spine. In Extension, or movement of the spine backwards, an exactly opposite dispo- sition of the parts takes place. This movement is not extensive, being limited by the anterior common ligament, and by the approximation of the spinous processes. Flexion and extension are most free in the lower part of the lumbar, and in the cervical regions; extension in the latter region being greater than flexion, the reverse of which is the case in the lumbar region. These movements are least free in the middle and upper part of the 1)ack. In Lateral Movement, the sides of the intervertebral discs are compressed, the extent of motion being limited by the resistance offered by' the surrounding liga- ments, and by the approximation of the transverse processes. This movement may take place in any part of the spine, but is most free in the neck and loins. Circumduction is very limited, and is produced merely by a succession of tlie preceding movements. 117.—Occipito-Atloid and Atlo-Axoid Ligaments, Front View. Rotation is produced by the twisting of the intervertebral substances; this, although only slight between any two vertebra, produces great extent of move- ment, when it takes place in the whole length of the spine, the front of the column being turned to one or the other side. This movement takes place only to a slight extent in the neck, but is more free in the lower part of the dorsal and lumbar regions. It is thus seen, that the cervical region enjoys the greatest extent of each