MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 7i6 They vary, however, in size, not only in different individuals, but also in the same individual on the two sides. Their 7ipper surface is in contact with the base of the bladder, extending from near the termination of the ureters to the base of the pi'ostate glaud. Their under surface rests upon the rectum, from which they are separated by the recto-vesical fascia. Their posterior extremities diverge back- wards and outwards from each other. Their anterior extremities are pointed, and converge towards the base of the prostate gland, where each joins with the corresponding vas deferens to form the ejaculatory duct. Along the inner margin of each vesiculum runs the enlarged and convoluted vas deferens. The inner border of the vesicula, and the corresponding vas deferens, form the lateral boundary of a triangular space, limited behind by the recto-vesical peritoneal fold; the portion of the bladder included in this space rests on the rectum, and corresponds with the trigonum vesicfe in its interior. Structure. Each vesiculum consists of a single tube, coiled upon itself, and giving off several irregular cajcal diverticula; the separate coils, as well as the diverticula, being connected together by fibrous tissue. When uncoiled, this tube is about the diameter of a quill, and varies in length from four to six inches; it terminates posteriorly in a cul-de-sac; its anterior extremity becomes constricted into a narrow straight duct, which joins on its inner side with the corresponding vas deferens, and forms the ejaculatory duct. The ejaculatory ducts, two in number, one on each side, are formed by the junction of the duct of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens. Each duct is about three quarters of an inch in length; it commences at the base of the prostate, and runs forwards and upwards in a canal in its substance, and along the side of the utriculus, to terminate by a separate slit-like orifice upon or within the margins of the sinus pocularis. The ducts diminish in size, and converge towards their termination. Structure. The vesicul® seminales are composed of three coats; an external or fibro-cellular, derived from the recto-vesical fagcia; a middle or fibrous coat, which is firm, dense, fibrous in structure, somewhat elastic, and contains, according to E. PL Weber, muscular fibres; and an internal or tiiucous coat, which is pale, of a whitish-brown colour, and presents a delicate reticular structure, like that seen in the gall-bladder, but the meshes are finer. The epithelium is squamous. The coats of the ejaculatory ducts are extremely thin, the outer fibrous layer being almost entirely lost after their entrance into the prostate, a thin layer of muscular fibres and the mucous membrane forming the only constituents of the tubes. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the vesiculaj seminales are derived from the inferior vesical and middle ha^morrhoidal. The veins and li/mphatics accompany the arteries. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. The Semen is a thick whitish fluid, having a peculiar odour. It consists of a fluid, the liquor seminis, and solid particles, the seminal granules, and spermatozoa. The liquor seminis is transparent, colourless, and of an albumiuous compo- sition, containing particles of squamous and columnar epithelium, with oil- globules and granular matter floating in it, besides the above-mentioned solid elements. The seminal granules are round finely-granular corpuscles, measuring :ioVo*''' of an inch in diameter. The spermatozoa, or spermatic filaments, are the essential agents in producing fecundation. They are minute elongated particles, consisting of a small flattened oval extremity or body, and a long slender caudal filament. A small circular spot is observed in the centre of the body, and at its point of connection with the tail there is frequently seen a pi-ojecting rim or colhu'. The movements of these bodies are remarkable, and consist of a lashing or undulatory motion of the tail. Descent of the Testes. The testes, at an early period of foetal life, are placed at the back part of the abdominal cavity, behind the peritoneum, in front and a little below the kidneys. )