OSTEOLOGY. 34 foramen varies in size in different subjects, is usually partially or completely impervious, lodges a process of the falx cerebri, and, when open, transmits a vein from the lining membrane of the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus. On either side of the groove, the bone is deeply concave, presenting eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the brain, and numerous small furrows for lodging the ramifications of the anterior meningeal arteries. Several small, irregular fossse are also seen on either side of the groove, for the reception of the Pacchionian bodies. Horizontal Portion. External Surface. This portion of the bone consists of two thin plates, which form the vault of the orbits, separated from one another by the ethmoidal notch. Each orbital vault consists of a smooth, concave, triangular plate of bone, marked at its anterior and external part (immediately beneath the external angular process) by a shallow depression, the lachrymal fossa, for lodging the lachrymal gland; and at its anterior and internal part, by a depression (some- times a small tubercle), for the attachment of the fibrous pulley of the Superior oblique muscle. The ethmoidal notch separates the two orbital plates: it is quadrilateral; and filled up, when the bones are united, by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The margins of this notch present several half-cells, which, when united with corresponding half-cells on the upper surface of the ethmoid, complete the ethmoidal cells : two grooves are also seen crossing these edges transversely ; they are converted into canals by articulation with the ethmoid, and are called the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals; they open on the inner walls of the orbit. The anterior one transmits the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal vessels, the posterior one, the posterior ethmoidal vessels. In front of the ethmoidal notch is the nasal spine, a sharp-pointed eminence, which projects downwards and forwards, and articulates in front with the crest of the nasal bones; behind, it is marked by two grooves, separated by a vertical ridge: the ridge articulates with the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid, the grooves form part of the roof of the nasal fossas. On either side of the base of the nasal spine are the openings of the frontal sinuses. These are two irregular cavities, which extend upwards and outwards, a variable distance, between the two tables of the skull, and are separated from one another by a thin bony septum. They give rise to the prominences above the root of the nose, called the nasal eminences and superciliary ridges. In the child they are generally absent, and they become gradually developed as age advances. These cavities vary in size in different persons, are larger in men than in women, and are frequently of unequal size on the two sides, the left being commonly the larger. Occasionally they are subdivided by incomplete bony lamina?. They are lined by mucous membrane; communicate with the nose by the infundibulum, and occasionally with each other by apertures in their septum. The Internal Surface of the Horizontal Portion presents the convex upper surfaces of the orbital plates, separated from each other in the middle line by the ethmoidal notch, and marked by eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the anterior lobes of the brain. Borders. The border of the vertical portion is thick, strongly serrated, bevelled at the expense of the internal table above, where it rests upon the parietal bones, and at the expense of the external table at each side, where it receives the lateral pressure of those bones: this border is continued below into a triangular rough surface, which articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid. The border of the horizontal portion is thin, serrated, and articulates with the lesser wing of the sphenoid. Structure. The vertical portion, and external angular processes, are very thick, consisting of diploic tissue contained between two compact lamina?. The horizontal portion is thin, translucent, and composed entirely of compact tissue; hence the facility with which instruments can penetrate the cranium through this part of the orbit. Development (fig. 29). The frontal bone is formed in membrane, being developed by tivo centres, one for each lateral half, which make their