MUSCLES OF LARYNX. 68i The Crico-arytcenoideus lateralis is smaller than the preceding, and of an oblong form. It arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid cartilage, and, passing obliquely upwards and 559.—Muscles of Larynx. Side View. Eight Ala of Thyroid Cartilage removed. 360.—Interior ot the Larynx, seen from above. (Enlarged.) backwards, is inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, in front of the preceding muscle. The Thyro-arytcBnoideus is a broad, flat muscle, which lies parallel with the outer side of the true vocal cord. It arises in front from the lower half of the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and from the crico-thyroid membrane. Its fibres pass horizontally backwards and outwards, to be inserted into the base and anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. This muscle consists of two fasciculi. The in- ferior, the thicker, is inserted into the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, and into the ad- jacent portion of its anterior surface; it lies parallel with the true vocal cord, to wdiich it is occasionally ad- herent. The superior fasciculus, the thinner, is inserted into the anterior surface and outer border of the arytenoid cartilage above the preceding fibres; it lies on the outer side of the sacculus laryngis, imme- diately beneath its mucous lining. The ArytcBnoideus is a siugle muscle, filling up the posterior con- cave surface of the arytenoid carti- lages. It arises from the posterior surface and outer border of one arytenoid cartilage, and is inserted into thB corresponding parts of the opposite cartilage. It consists of three planes of fibres: two oblique, and one transverse. The oblique fibres, the most superficial, form two fasciculi, wdiicli pass from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the opposite one. The transverse fibres, the deepest and most nume- rous, pass transversely across be- tween the two cartilages; hence the Arytsenoideus was formerly con- sidered as several muscles, under the names of transversi and obliqui. A few of the oblique fibres are oc- casionally continued round the outer margin of the cartilage, and blend Avitli the Thyro-arytenoid or the Arytseno-epiglottideus muscle.