FRACTURES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 289 i8o—Fracture of the Middle of the Clavicle. only slight displacement occurs, as these ligaments, from their obhque insertion, serve to hold both portions of the bone in apposition. Fracture, also of the sternal end, internal to the costo-clavicular ligament, is attended with only slight displacement, this ligament serving to retain the fragments in close apposition. Fracture of the acromion process usually arises from violence applied to the upper and outer part of the shoulder; it is generally known by the rotundity of the shoulder being lost, from the Deltoid drawing the fractured portion downwards and forwards; and the dis- placement may easily be discovered by tracing the margin of the clavicle outwards, when the fragment wdll be found resting on the front and upper part of the head of the humerus. In order to relax the anterior and outer fibres of the Deltoid (the opposing muscle), the arm should be drawn forwards across the chest, and the elbow well raised, so that the head of the bone may press the acromion process upwards, and retain it in its position. Fracture of the coracoid process is an ex- tremely rare accident, and is usually caused by a sharp blow on the point of the shoulder. Displacement is here produced by the com- bined actions of the Pectoralis minor, short head of the Biceps, and Coraco-brachialis, the former muscle drawing the fragment inwards, and the latter directly downwards, the amount of displacement being limited by the connec- tion of this process to the acromion by means of the coraco-acromial ligament. In order to relax these muscles, and replace the fragments in close apposition, the forearm should be flexed so as to relax the Biceps, and the arm drawn forwards and inwards across the chest so as to relax the Coraco-brachialis ; the humerus should then be pushed upwards against the coraco-acromial hgament, and the arm retained in that position. Fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus within the capsular ligament is a rare accident, attended with very slight displacement, an impaired condition of the motions of the joint, and crepitus. Fracture of the surgical neck (6g. 181) is very common, is attended with considerable displacement, and its appearances correspond somewhat with those of dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla. The upper fragment is slightly elevated under the coraco-acromial ligament by the muscles attached to the gi-eater and lesser tuberosities ; the lower fragment is drawn inwards by the Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major ; and the humerus is thrown ob- liquely outwards from the side by the Deltoid, and occasionally elevated so as to project beneath and in fi'ont of the coracoid process. The deformity is reduced by fixing the shoulder, and drawing the arm outwards and downwards. To counteract the opposing muscles, and to keep the fragments in posi- tion, the arm should be drawn from the side, and pasteboard splints applied on its four sides; a large conical-shaped pad should be placed in the axiUa with the base turned upwards, and the elbow ajjproximated to the side, and retained there by a broad roller passed round the chest; the forearm should then be flexed, and the hand supported in a sling, care being taken not to raise the elbow, otherwise the lower fragment may be dis- placed upwards. In fiacture of the shaft of the humerus below the insertion of the Pectoralis major, La.tissimus dorsi, and Teres major, and above the insertion of the Deltoid, there is also considerable deformity, the upper fragment being drawn inwards hx the first-mentioned U ' 181.—Fracture of the Surgical Neck of the Humerus.