OF THE SPINE. 159 substance presents no concentric arrangement, and consists of white fibrous tissue, with cells of variable shape and size interspersed. The pulpy matter, which is especially well developed in the lumbar region, is separated from immediate con- tact with the vertebrae by the interposition of thin plates of cartilage. 2. Ligaments connecting the Lamina. Ligamenta Subflava, The Ligamenta Suhfiava are interposed between the lamiute of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. They are most distinct when seen from the interior of the spinal canal; when viewed from the outer surface, they appear short, being overlapped by the laminse. Each ligament consists of two lateral portions, which commence on each side at the root of either articular process, and pass backwards to the iJoint where the laminae converge to form the spinous process, where their margins are thickest, and separated by a slight interval, filled up with areolar tissue. These ligaments consist of yellow elastic tissue, the fibres of which, almost per- pendicular in direction, are attached to the anterior surface of the margin of the lamina above, and to the posterior surface, as well as to the margin of the lamina below. In the cervical region, they are thin in texture, but very broad and long; they become thicker in the dorsal region ; and in the lumbar acquire very consi- derable thickness. Their highly elastic property serves to preserve the upright posture, and to counteract the efforts of the flexor muscles of the spine. These ligaments do not exist between the occiput and atlas, or between the atlas and axis. 3. Ligaments connecting the Articular Processes. Capsular. The Capsular Ligaments are thin and loose ligamentous sacs, attached to the contiguous margins of the articulating processes of each vertebra, through the greater part of their circumference, and completed internally by the ligamenta subflava. They are longer and more loose in the cervical than in the dorsal or lumbar regions. The capsular ligaments are lined on their inner sui'face by synovial membrane. 4. Ligaments connecting the Spinous Processes. Inter-spinous. Supra-spinous. The Inter-spinous Ligaments, thin and membranous, are interposed betAveen the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar regions. Each ligament extends from the root to near the summit of each spinous process, and connects together their adjacent margins. They are narrow and elongated iji the dorsal region, broader, quadrilateral in form, and thicker in the lumbar region. The Supra-spinous Ligament is a strong fibrous cord, which connects together the apices of the spinous processes from the seventh cervical to the spine of the sacrum. It is thicker and broader in the lumbar than in the dorsal region, and intimately blended, in both situations, with the neighbouring aponeuroses. The most superficial fibres of this ligament connect three or four vertebra;; those deeper seated pass between two or three vertebrae; whilst the deepest connect the contiguous extremities of neighbouring vertebrse. 5. Ligaments connecting the Transverse Processes. Inter-transvefse. The Inter-transverse Ligaments consist of a few thin scattered fibres, interposed between the transverse processses. They are generally wanting in the cervical region; in the dorsal, they are rounded cords; in the lumbar region, they are thin and membranous.