620 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. richly supplied with vessels and nerves, which enter the cavity througli the small aperture at the point of each fang. The solid portion of the tooth consists of three distinct xr ,. ■. ^ ,- , , . . /, ,1 1 1 X- N 1 • 1 r 322.— vertical Section, structures, viz., ivory (tooth-bone, or dentine), which forms ^ Molar Tooth the larger portion of the tooth; enamel, which covers the exposed part, or crown ; and the cortical substance, or cement {crusia petrosd), which is disposed as a thin layer on the surface of the fang. The Ivory, or dentine (fig. 323), forms the principal mass of a tooth; in its central part is the cavity enclosing the pulp. It is a modification of the osseous tissue, from which it difiers, however, in structure and chemical com- position. On examination with the microscope, it is seen to consist of a number of minute wavy and branching tubes, having distinct parietes. They are called the dental tuhuli, and are im- bedded in a dense homogeneous substance, the intertuhular tissue. The dental tuhuli are placed parallel with one another, and open at their inner ends into the pulp cavity. They pursue a wavy and undulating course towards the peripheiy. The direction of these tubes varies; they are vertical in the upper portion of the crown, oblique in the neck and upper part of the root, and towards the lower part 323.—Vertical Section of aBicus- of the root they are inclined downwards. The tubuli, at their commencement, are about 45V0 of au iuch in diameter; in their course they divide and subdivide dichotomously, so as to give to the <;ut surface of the dentine a striated appearance. From the sides of the tubes, especially in the fang, ramifications of extreme minuteness are given ofi", which join together in loops in the intertuhular substance, or terminate in small dilatations, from which branches are given off. Near the periphery of the dentine, the finer ramifications of the tubuli terminate in a somewhat similar manner. In the fang, these ramifications occasionally pass into the crusta petrosa. The dental tubuli have com- paratively thick walls, and contain, according to Mr. Tomes, slender cylindrical prolongations of the pulp-tissue. The intertuhular suhstance is translucent, finely granular, and contains the chief part of the earthy matter of the dentine. After the earthy matter has been removed, by steeping a tooth in weak acid, the animal basis remaining is described by Henle as consisting of bundles of pale, granular, flattened fibres, running parallel with the tubes; but by Mr. Nasmyth as consisting of a mass of brick-shaped cells surrounding the tubules. By Czermak and Mr. Salter it is supposed to consist of laminse which run parallel with the pulp cavity, across the direction of the tubes. Chemical Composition. According to Berzelius and Bibra, dentine consists of 28 parts of animal, and 72 of earthy matter. The animal matter is resolvable by boiling into gelatin. The earthy matter consists of phosphate of lime, carbonate of lime, a trace of fluoride of calcium, phosphate of magnesia and other salts. The Enamel is the hardest and most compact part of a tooth, and forms a thin crust over the exposed part of the crown, as far as the commencement of tlie fang. It is thickest on the grinding surface of the crown, until worn away by attrition, and becomes thinner towards the neck. It consist of a congeries of minute hexagonal rods. They lie parallel with one another, resting by one extremity pid Tooth. (Magnified).