219 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY REGION. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument; above, with the Orbicularis palpebrarum and Zygomatici; and with Stenon's duct, the bi-anches of the facial nerve, and the transverse facial vessels, which cross it. By its deep surface, with the ramus of the jaw, and the Buccinator, from which it is separated by a mass of fat. Its posterior margin is overlapped by the parotid gland. Its anterior margin projects over the Buccinator muscle. The temporal fascia is seen, at this stage of the dissection, covering in the Temporal muscle. It is a stx'ong aponeurotic investment, affording attachment, by its inner surface, to the superficial fibres of the muscle. Above, it is a single layer, attached to the entire extent of the temporal ridge; but below, where it is attached to the zygoma, it consists of two layers, one of which is inserted into the outer, and the other into the inner border of the zygomatic arch. A small quantity of fat, the orbital branch of the temporal artery, and a filament from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve, are contained between these two layers. It is covered, on its outer surface, by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis, the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and AttoUens and Attrahens aurem muscles; the temporal vessels and nerves cross it from below upwards. 151.—The Temporal Muscle, the Zygoma and Masseter having been removed. Dissection. In order to expose the Temporal muscle, remove the temporal fascia, which may be effected by separating it at its attachment along the upper border of the zygoma, and dissecting it upwards from the surface of the muscle. The zygomatic arch should then be divided, in front, at its junction with the malar bone; and, behind, near the external auditory meatus, and drawn downwards with the Masseter, which should be detached from its insertion into the ramus and angle of the jaw. The whole extent of the Temporal muscle is then exposed. The Temporal is a broad radiating muscle, situated at the side of the head, and occupying the entire extent of the temporal fossa. It arises from the whole of the temporal fossa, which extends from the external angular process of the frontal in front, to the mastoid portion of the temporal behind; and from the curved line on the frontal and parietal bones above, to the pterygoid ridge on the great wing of the sphenoid below. It is also attached to the inner surface of the temporal fascia. Its fibres converge as they descend, and terminate in an aponeurosis, the fibres of which, radiated at its commencement, converge into a thick and flat tendon, which is inserted into the inner surface, apex, and anterior border of the coronoid process of the jaw, nearly as far forwards as the last molar tooth.