ORGANS OF SENSE. 6o8 which descends perpendicularly from the roof of the tympauum to the head of the malleus. The posterior ligament of the incus is a short, thick, ligamentous band, which connects the extremity of the short process of the incus to the posterior wall of the tympanum, near the margin of the opening of the mastoid cells. The annular ligament of the stapes connects the circumference of the base of this bone to the margin of the fenestra ovalis. A suspensory ligament of the incus has been described by Arnold, descending from the roof of the tymjianum to the upper part of the incus, near its articulation with the malleus. The muscles of the tympanum are three: Tensor tympani. Laxator tympani. Stapedius. The Tensor tympani, the largest, is contained in a bony canal, above the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube, from which it is separated by the processus cochleariformis. It arises from the under surface of the petrous bone, from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and from the osseous canal in which it is contained. Passing backwai'ds, it terminates in a slender tendon, which is reflected outwards over the processus cochleariformis, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus, near its root. It is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion. The Laxator tympani major (Sommerring), arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and passing backwards through the Glasserian fissure, is inserted into the neck of the malleus, just above the processus gracilis. It is supplied by the tympanic branch of the facial. The Laxator tympani minor (Sommerring), arises from the upper and back part of the external meatus, passes forwards and inwards between the middle and inner layers of the membrana tympani, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus, and processus brevis. This is regarded as a ligament by some anatomists. The Stapedius arises from the sides of a conical cavity hollowed out of the interior of the pyramid : its tendon emerges from the orifice at the apex of the pyramid, and passing forwards, is inserted into the neck of the stapes. Its surface is aponeurotic, its interior fleshy; and its tendon occasionally contains a slender bony spine, which is constant in some mammalia. It is supplied by a filament from the facial nerve. Actions. The Tensor tympani draws the membrana tympani inwards, and thus heightens its tension. The Laxator tympani draws the malleus outwards, and thus the tympanic membrane, especially at its fore part, is relaxed. The Stapedius depresses the back part of the base of the stapes, and raises its fore part. It probably compresses the contents of the vestibule. The mucous membrane of the tympanum is thin, vascular, and continuous with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, through the Eustachian tube. It invests the ossicula, and the muscles and nerves contained in the tympanic cavity; forms the internal layer of the membrana tympani; covers the foramen rotundum; and is reflected into the mastoid cells, which it lines throughout. In the tympanum and mastoid cells, this membrane is pale, thin, slightly vascular, and covei'ed with ciliated epithelium. In the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube, the membrane is thin; but in the cartilaginous portion it is very thick, highly vascular, covered with laminar ciliated epithelium, and provided with numerous mucous glands. The arteries supplying the tympanum are five in number. Two of them are larger than the I'est, viz., the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, which supplies the membrana tympani; and the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, which supplies the back part of the tympanum and mastoid cells. The smaller branches are, the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal, and branches from the ascending pharyngeal and internal carotid.