585 NASAL FOSS^.. pi'cssor iiarium minor, and the Depressor ate nasi. They have been described above (p. 215). The integument covering the dorsum and sides of the nose is thin, and loosely connected with the subjacent parts; but where it forms the tip, or lobe, and the alffi of the nose, it is thicker, and more firmly adherent. It is furnished with a large number of sebaceous follicles, the orifices of which are usually very distinct. The mucous membrane, lining the interior of the nose, is continuous with the skin externally, and with that which lines the nasal fossas within. The arteries of the nose are the lateralis nasi, from the facial, and the nasal artery of the septum, from the superior coronary, which supplies the alje and septum; the sides and dorsum being supplied from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and the infraorlntal. The veins of the nose terminate in the facial and ophthalmic. The nerves of the nose are branches from the facial, infraorbital, and infra- - trochlear, and a filament from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Nasal Foss^. The nasal fossa3 are two irregular cavities, situated in the middle of the face, and extending from before backwards. They open in front by the two anterior nares, and terminate in the pharynx, behind, by the posterior nares. The boun- daries of these cavities, and the openings which are connected with them, as they exist in the skeleton, have been already described (pp. 78-80). The mucous membrane lining the nasal fossee is called ■pituitary, from the nature of its secretion; or Schneiderian, from Schneider, the first anatomist who showed that the secretion proceeded from the mucous membrane, and not, as was formerly imagined, from the brain. It is intimately adherent to the periosteum, or perichondrium, over which it lies. It is continuous externally with the skin, through the anterior nares, and with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, through the posterior nares. From the nasal fossss its continuity may be traced with the conjunctiva, through the nasal duct and lachrymal canals; with the lining membrane of the tympanum and mastoid cells, through the Eustachian tube; and with the frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses, and the antrum maxillare, through the several openings in the meatuses. The mucous membrane is thickest, and most vascular, over the turbinated bones. It is also thick over the septum; but, in the intervals between the spongy bones, and on the floor of the nasal fossfE, it is very thin. Where it lines the various sinuses and the antrum maxillare, it is thin and pale. The surface of the membrane is covered with a layer of tesselated epithelium, at the upper part of the nasal fossaj, corresponding with the distribution of the olfactory nerve, but is ciliated throughout the rest of its extent, excepting near the aperture of the nares. This membrane is also pi'ovided with a nearly continuous layer of branched mucous glands, the ducts of which open upon its surface. They are most nume- rous at the middle and back parts of the nasal fossae, and largest at the lower and back part of the septum. Owing to the great thickness of this membrane, the nasal fossae are much nar- rower, and the turbinated bones, especially the lower ones, appear larger, and more prominent, than in the skeleton. From the same circumstance, also, the various apertures communicating Avith the meatuses, are either narrowed or completely closed. In the superior meatus, the aperture of communication with the posterior ethmoidal cells is considerably diminished in size, and the spheno-palatine foramen completely covered in. In the middle meatus, the opening of the infundibulum is partially hidden by a projecting fold of mucous membrane, and the orifice of the antrum is contracted to a small circular aperture, much narrower than in the skeleton.