PATELLA. 133 Gemellus inferior, and Quadratus femoris. To the lesser trochanter: the Psoas magnus, and the Iliaeus below it. To the shaft, its posterior surface: the Vastus externus, Gluteus maximus, short head of the Biceps, Vastus internus, Adductor magnus, Pectineus, Adductor brevis, and Adductor longus; to its anterior surface: the Crureus, and Sub-crureus. To the condyles: the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Popliteus. THE LEG. The Leg consists of three bones: the Patella, a large sesamoid bone, placed iu front of the knee; and the Tibia, and Fibula. ^ The Patella. (Figs. 107, 108). ' The Patella is a flat, triangular bone, situated at the anterior part of the knee- joint. It resembles the sesamoid bones, from being developed in the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor, and in its structure, being composed throughout of dense cancellous tissue; but it is generally regarded as analogous to the olecranon process of the ulna, which occasionally exists as a separate piece, connected to the shaft of the bone by a continuation of the tendon of the Triceps muscle.* It serves to protect the front of the joint, and increases the leverage of the Quadri- ceps extensor by making it act at a greater angle. It presents an anterior and posterior surface, three borders, a base, and an apex. The anterior surface is convex, perforated by small apertures, for the passage of nutrient vessels, and marked by numerous rough longitudinal strias. This surface is covered, in the recent state, by an expansion from the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor, and separated from the integument by a bursa. It gives attachment below to the liga- mentum patellar. The posterior surface presents a smooth, oval-shaped, articular surface, covered with, cartilage in the recent state, and divided into two facets by a vertical ridge, which descends from the superior towards the inferior angle of the bone. The ridge corresponds to the groove on the trochlear surface of the femur, and the two facets to the articular surfaces of the two condyles; the outer facet, for articulation with the outer condyle, being the broader and deeper. This character serves to indicate the leg to which the bone belongs. Below the articular surface is a rough, convex, uou-articular depression, the lower half of which gives attachment to the liganientum patellas; the upper half being separated from the head of the tibia by adipose tissue. The superior and lateral borders give attachment to the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor; the superior border, to that portion of the tendon which is derived from the Rectus and Crureus muscles; and the lateral borders, to the portion derived from the external and internal Vasti muscles. The base, or superior border, is thick, directed upwards, and cut obliquely at the expense of its outer surface; it receives the attachment, as already mentioned, of part of the Quadriceps extensor tendon. The apex is pointed, and gives attachment to the ligamentum patelte. * Professor Owen states, that, 'in certain bats, there is a development of a sesamoid bone in the biceps brachii, which is the true homotype of the patella in the leg,' regarding the olecranon to be homologous, not with the patella, but with an extension of the upper end of the fibula above the knee-joint, which is met with in some animals. (' On the Nature of Limbs,' pp. 19, 24..) 107.—Right Patella. Anterior Surface. 108.—Posterior Surface.