RADIO-ULNAR. 2. Middle Radio-ulnar Articulation. The interval between the shafts of the radius and ulna is occupied by two ligaments. Oblique. Interosseous. The Oblique or Round Ligament (fig. 132) is a small round fibrous cord, which extends obliquely downwards and outwards, from the tubercle of the ulna at the base of the coronoid process, to the radius a little below the bicipital tuberosity. Its fibres run in the opposite direction to those of the interosseous ligament; and it appears to be placed as a substitute for it in the upper part of the interosseous interval. This ligament is sometimes wanting. The Interosseous Membrane is a broad and thin plane of aponeurotic fibres, descending obliquely downwards and inwards, from the interosseous ridge on the radius to that on the ulna. It is deficient above, commencing about an inch be- neath the tubercle of the radius; is broader in the middle than at either extremity; and presents an oval aperture just above its lower margin for the passage of the anterior interosseous vessels to the back of the forearm. This ligament serves to connect the bones, and to increase the extent of surface for the attachment of the deep muscles. Between its upper border and the oblique ligament an interval exists, through which the posterior interosseous vessels pass. Two or three fibrous bands are occasionally found on the posterior surface of this membrane, which descend obliquely from the ulna towards the radius, and which have consequently a direction contrary to that of the other fibres. It is in relation, in front, by its upper three-fourths Avith the Flexor longus pollicis on the outer side, and with the Flexor profundus digitorum on the inner, lying upon tlie interval between which are the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, by its lower fourth with the Pro- nator quadratus; behind, with the Supinator brevis. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor primi internodii pollicis. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis, Extensor indicis; and, near the wrist, with the anterior interosseous artery and posterior interosseous nerve. 3. Inferior Radio-Ulnar Articulation. This is a lateral ginglymoid joint, formed by the head of the ulna received into the sigmoid cavity at the inner side of the lower end of the radius. The articular surfaces are covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments. Anterior Radio-ulnar, Posterior Radio-ulnar. Triangular Interarticular Fibro-cartilage. The Anterior Radio-ulnar Ligament (fig. 134) is a narrow band of fibres, ex- tending from the anterior margin of the sigmoid cavity of the radius to the anterior surface of the head of the ulna. The Posterior Radio-ulnar IJgament (fig. 135) extends between similar points on the posterior surface of the articulation. The Triangular Fibro-cartilage (fig. 136) is placed transversely beneath the head of the ulna, binding the lower end of this bone and the radius firmly together. Its circumference is thicker than its centre, which is thin and occasionally per- forated. It is attached by its apex to a depression which separates the styloid process of the ulna from the head of that bone; and, by its base, which is thin, to the prominent edge of the radius, which separates the sigmoid cavity from the carpal articulating surface. Its margins are united to the ligaments of the wrist joint. Its upper surface, smooth and concave, is contiguous with the head of the ulna; its under surface, also concave and smooth, with the cuneiform bone. Both surfaces are lined by a synovial membrane: the upper surface, by one peculiar