MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 210 length, arises from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital boue, and from the mastoid portion of the temporal. Its fihres of origin are tendinous, but they soon become muscular, and ascend in a parallel direction to terminate in the tendinous aponeurosis. The frontal portion is thin, of a quadrilatei'al form, and intimately adherent to the skin. It.is broader, its fibres are longer, and their structure paler than the occipital portion. Its internal fibres are continuous with those of the Pyramidalis nasi. Its middle fibres become blended with the Corrugator supercilii and Orbicularis: and the outer fibres are also blended with the latter muscle over the external angular process. From this attachment, the fibres are directed upwards and join the aponeurosis below the coronal suture. The inner margins of the two frpntal portions of the muscle are joined together for some distance above the root of the nose; but between the occipital portions there is a considerable though variable interval. The aponeurosis covers the upper part of the vertex of the skull, being con- tinuous across the middle line with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle. Behind, it is attached, iu the interval between the occipital origins, to the occipital protuberance and superior curved lines above the attachment of the Trapezius; in front, it forms a short angular prolongation between the frontal portions; and on each side, it has connected with it the Attollens and" Attraheus aurem muscles; in this situation it loses its aponeurotic character, and is continued over the temporal fascia to the zygoma by a layer of laminated areolar tissue. This aponeurosis is closely connected to the integument by a dense fibro-cellular tissue, which contains much granular fat, and in which ramify the numerous vessels and nerves of the integument; it is loosely connected with the pericranium by a quantity of loose cellular tissue, which allows of a considerable degree of movement of the integument. Nerves. Tlie frontal portion of the Occipito-frontalis is supplied by the facial nerve; its occipital portion by the posterior auricular branch of the facial, and sometimes by the small occipital. Actions. The frontal portion of the muscle raises the eyebrows and the skin over the root of the nose; at the same tim.e throwing the integument of the fore- head into transverse wrinkles, a predominant expression in the emotions of delight. By bringing alternately into action the occipital and frontal portions, the entire scalp may be moved from before backwards. 2. AiiEicuLAU Region (fig. 148). Attollens Aurem. Attrahens Aurem. Retrahens Aurem. These three small muscles are placed immediately beneath the skin around the external ear. In man, in whom the external ear is almost immovable, they are rudimentary. They are the analogues of large and important muscles in some of the mammalia. Dissection. This requires considerable care, and should be performed in the following manner :—To expose the Attollens aurem; draw the pinna or broad part of the ear down- wards, when a tense band will be felt beneath the skin, passing from the side of the head to the upper part of the concha; by dividing the skin over the tendon, in a direction from . below upwards,-and then reflecting it on each side, the muscle is exposed. To bring into .view the Attrahens aurem, draw the helix backwards by means of a hook, when the muscle \will be made tense, and may be exposed in a similar manner to the preceding. To expose the Eetrahens aurem, draw the pinna forwards, when the muscle being made tense may be felt beneath the skin, at its insertion into the back part of the concha, and may be exposed injthe same manner as the other muscles. The Attollens Aurem, the largest of the three, is thin, and fan-shaped; its fibres arise from the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis, and converge to be inserted by .a thin. flattp,ued tendon into i;he upper part of the cranial surface of ^ the pinna. rem delations. J^xter^lftllii^ with the integument; internally, with the Temporal bet'noneurosis.