ARTICULATIONS. 194 The Crucial are two interosseous ligaments of considerable strength, situated iu the interior of the joint, nearer its posterior than its anterior part. They are called crucial, because they cross each other, somewhat like the lines of the 141—Right Knee-Joint. Shewing Internal letter X; and have received the names Ligaments. anterior and posterior, from the position of their attachment to the tibia. The Anterior or External Crucial Ligament (lig. I41), smaller than the posterior, is attached/ to the inner side of the depression in front of the spine of the tibia, being blended with the anterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro- cartilage, and passing obliquely upwards, backwards, and outwards, is inserted into the inner and back part of the outer con- dyle of the femur. The Posterior or Internal Crucial Ligament is larger in size, but less oblique in its direction than the anterior. It is attached to the back part of the depression behind the spine of the tibia, and to the posterior extremity of the external semilunar libro-cartilage; and passes upwards, forwards, and inwards, to be inserted into the outer and fore part of the inner condyle of the femur. As it crosses the anterior crucial liga- ment, a fasciculus is given off from it, which blends with the posterior part of that ligament. It is in relation, in front, with the anterior crucial ligament; behind, with the ligameutum posticumWinslowii. The Semilunar Fibro- Cartilages (fig. 142) are two orescentic lamellae, which are attached to the margins of the head of the tibia, and serve to deepen its surface for articulation with the condyles of the femur. The circumference of each cartilage is thick and convex; the inner free border, thin and concave. Their ujjper surfaces are concave, and in relation with the condyles of the femur; their lower surfaces are flat, and rest upon the head of the tibia. Each carti- lage covers nearly the outer two-thirds of the corresi^onding articular surface of the tibia, leaving the inner third un- covered; both surfaces are smooth, and invested by synovial membrane. The Internal Seinilunar Fibro-Carti- lage is nearly semicircular in form, a little elongated from before backwards, and broader behind than in front; its convex border is united to the internal lateral ligament, and to the head of the tibia, by means of the coronary ligaments; its anterior extremity, thin and pointed, is firmly implanted into a depression in front of the inner articular surface of the tibia; its posterior extremity into the depression behind the sjiine, between the attachment of the external cartilage and posterior crucial ligament. The External Semilunar Fibro-Cartilage forms nearly an entire circle. 142.—Head of Tibia, with Semilunar Cartilages, etc. Seen from above. Eight Side.