78 OSTEOLOGY. is marked by three sutures, the fronto-raaxillary internally, the fronto-malar exter- nally, and the malo-maxillary below; it contributes to the formation of the la- chrymal groove, and presents above, the supraorbital notch (or foramen), for the passage of the supraorbital artery, veins, and nerve. The apex, situated at the back of the orbit, corresponds to the optic foramen, a short circular canal, which transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. It will thus be seen that there are nine openings communicating with each orbit, viz., the optic, foramen lacerum anterius, spheno-maxillary fissure, supraorbital foramen, infraorbital canal, anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina, malar foramina, and lachrymal canal. The Nasal Foss-a;. The Nasal Fosscb are two large irregular cavities, situated in the middle line of the face, extending from the base of the cranium to the roof of the mouth, and separated from each other by a thin vertical septum. They communicate by two large apertures, the interior nares, with the front of the face; and with the pharynx behind by the two posterior nares. These fossiB are much narrower above than below, and in the middle than at the anterior or posterior openings: their depth, which is considerable, is much greater in the middle than at either extremity. Each nasal fossa communicates with four sinuses, the frontal above, the sphenoidal behind, and the maxillary and ethmoidal on either side. Each fossa also commu- nicates with four cavities: with the orbit by the lachrymal canal, with the mouth by the anterior palatine canal, with the cranium by the olfactory foramina, and with the spheno-maxillary fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen; and they occa- sionally communicate with each other by an aperture in the septum. The bones 66.—Eoof, Floor, and Outer Wall of Nasal Fossa. Baof Nasal 3one, Wasnl ^ine> of Frontal Bone Bm-LzontalFlaU afHthmoii P/ole passed ihTough T^asO'lacJirymaZ Camel SristZe ■passedtJiwu^Ji ijifuTidiluiIuni. Owter Wall ''Nasa I Froc. ofSajxM FtlllTToCtL XftzcifajmBroa of ditt Inferior Turbirwica Palate- Sujierwi' Meatus Middle Meatus. Inferior Mcatii.' Floo Jint. Nasal Sjjitw FcClatc Froc, of /SuJ^■^^ax. Palate Froc. of FalaU Fosc. Nasal k'pivs, Ant. Palatine Canal entering into their formation are fourteen in number: three of the cranium, the frontal, sphenoid, the ethmoid, and all the bones of the face, excepting the malar and lower jaw. Each cavity is bounded by a roof, a floor, an inner, and an outer wall. The upper tvall, or roof (fig. 66), is long, narrow, and concave from before back- I