ARTERIES. 39° tumour, and the great probability of disease in the vessel itself, add to the dangers and difficulties of this formidable operation so greatly, that it is very doubtful whether it ought ever to be performed. The collateral circulation would be cai'ried on by the anastomosis between the internal mammary and the epigastric ; by the free communication between the superior and inferior mesenteries, if the ligature were placed above the latter vessel; or by the anastomosis between the inferior mesenteric and the internal j^udic, when (as is more common) the point of ligature is below the origin of the inferior mesenteric ; by the com- munications between the bi'auches of the two internal iliacs ; and possibly by the anas- tomoses of the lumbar arteries with the branches of the internal iliac. The circulation through the abdominal aorta may be commanded, in thin persons, by firm pressure with the fingers. Mr. Lister has invented a tourniquet for this purpose, which is of the greatest use in amputation at the hip-joint, and some other operations. Branches of the Abdominal Aorta. Phrenic. iGastric. Renal. Hepatic. Spermatic. Splenic. Inferior mesenteric. Superior mesenteric. Lumbar. Suprarenal. Sacra media. The branches may be divided into two sets: i. Those supplying the viscera. 2. Those distributed to the walls of the abdomen. Visceral Branches, Parietal Branches. IGastric. Phrenic. Hepatic. Lumbar. Splenic. Sacra media. Superior mesenteric. Inferior mesenteric. Suprarenal. Renal. Spermatic. CcELiAC Axis. To expose this artery, raise the liver, draw down the stomach, and then tear through the layers of the lesser omentum. The Coiliac axis is a short thick trunk, about half an inch in length, Avhich arises from the aorta, opposite the margin of the Diaphragm, and passing nearly horizontally forwards (in the erect posture), divides into three large branches, the gastric, hepatic, and splenic, occasionally giving off one of the phrenic arteries. Relations. It is covered, by the lesser omentum. On the right side, it is in relation with the right semilunar ganglion, and the lobus Spigelii; on the left side, with the left semilunar ganglion and cardiac end of the stomach. Below, it rests upon the upper border of the pancreas. The Gastric Artery (Coronaria ve7itriculi), the smallest of the three branches of the coeliac axis, passes upwards and to the left side, to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, distributing branches to the oesophagus, which anastomose with tl|p aortic oesophageal arteries; others supply the cardiac end of the stomach, inoscu- lating with branches of the splenic artery: it then passes from left to right, along the lesser curvature of the stomach to the pylorus, lying in its course between the layers of the lesser omentum, and giving branches to both surfaces of the organ; at its termination it anastomoses with the pyloric branch of the hepatic. *rU*~The Hepatic Artery in the adult is intermediate in size \Sm. the gastric and splenic; in the foetus, it is the largest of the three branches of the coeliac axis. It passes upwards to the right side, between the layers of the lesser h omentum, and in front of the foramen of Winslow, to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into two branches, right and left, which supply the cor- responding lobes of that organ, accompanying the ramifications of the vena port£E and hepatic duct. The hepatic artery, in its course along the right border of the