SIMPLE BEVERAGES FROM FRUITS. 104 A very delicious drink may be made from canned strawberries, water, and sugar, for early spring use. This fruit is rarely canned, but is the most wholesome of any for early spring use before other new fruit can be had. The acid acts favorably in clearing out the system, acting on liver and bowels. Blackberry Drink.—A delicious drink is made by stewing a pound of ripe blackberries in a quart of water, adding sufficient sugar to make the drink palatable, and pouring off the fluid. The berries may be eaten separately. An equally pleasant drink may be made by stewing dried blackberries, adding sugar to make it sufficiently sweet. The amount of water and sugar may be decided by the taste. Baspberry Drink.—Take fine red, ripe raspberries, crush them in a sieve, and j^ress out the juice, to each pint of which add a pint of S}U'up made by boiling a pound of sugar in a pint of water, the scum being removed. When the syrup and j nice are mixed, boil slowly for an hour, cool, bottle, cork, and seal. Vv’’lien wanted, dilute with water to the right consistency. A delicious drink is quickly and cheaply made by stewing dried raspberries in water, adding sugar to make the drink palatable. It can be made of fresh berries by crushing them in a bowl and adding water and sugar to taste. Children are generally fond of drinks made in this way, and the variety is almost endless. Cherry Drink.—Mash twelve or fifteen large sour cherries, stones and all, in a goblet, pour on water till the glass is two-thirds full ; add loaf-sugar sufficient to suit the taste. This is a cooling summer- beverage, and an excellent diuretic. Persons suffering with gravel in the bladder are often greatly relieved by this beverage, only it should be made very strong of cherry-j nice for them. Plum Water.—Pour over half a pound of plums a quarter of an ounce of ginger (if approved), two quarts of water; boil till pulped, strain, boil again, skim well, and bottle for use. Keep cool. Gooseberry Water.—Green gooseberries, served in the same way, make a good drink. The proportions are : gooseberries one pound ; water, one gallon; ginger, one-half ounce ; sugar, three- fourths of a pound. Mixed Currantade.—Mash one pound of ripe red currants with half a pound of ripe red raspberries ; add a half pound of sugar and a gallon of cold water. Let it settle, and it is ready for use. If it is desirable to bottle it, strain. Dried currants and dried raspberries may be used, and so may currant jelly, if more convenient. Pure Currantade.—Press the juice from ripe currants, strain, add to each pint a pound of best white sugar ; add cold water to taste. It makes a delicious beverage. Dried currants may be used, and thus the drink made at any season of the year. A Cool Ginger Drink.—Ginger is used almost universally as an addition to many drinks. There are those who would not allow it in the stomach, still, as the root contains no essential oil, and is sli^itly warming and carminative, it is not particularly objectionable. Gen-