82 RECIPES. A Simple Corilmeal Pudding.—Stir into a quart of boiling milk the yolks of two eggs, three heaping spoonfuls of meal and a half a cup of sugar, well beaten together. Cook five minutes, stirring con- stantly ; remove from the fire, and add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a pudding-dish, and bake one hour in a moderate oven. Serve with cream and sugar. Batter Pudding.—Take a half pound of flour; one pint of milk ; two eggs, and one tea-spoonful of baking powder. Rub the baking- powder quite smooth ; mix it well with the flour, then stir in nearly half of the milk, and beat it perfectly smooth ; add the remainder of the milk and the eggs, well beaten; boil the pudding one and a half hours, in a buttered basin, and serve with sweet sauce ; or put it into a buttered dish, and bake it in a quick oven. Baked Batter Pudding with Fruit.—Take a half-pound of flour; one pint of milk ; the yolks of four, and whites of two eggs, and half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Rub the powder till smooth, mixing it well with the flour, and as much milk as will make it a stiff batter ; beat it till quite smooth, then add the remainder of the milk, and the eggs, well beaten. Put some apples, cut as for a pie, into a buttered dish ; pour the batter over, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Damsons, currants, gooseberries, or rhubarb, may be used in the same way. CAKES. Cake is good and wholesome when it is plain and simple. It is bad when it is too rich and compounded of too many ingredients. It may be eaten freely like bread in the former case. In the latter it had better not be eaten at all. Children are generally fond of cake. It ought always to be so made that they can eat of it without injuring the vigor of the stomach, which should always be preserved. We would always have the family cake made of the best of coarse flour. It is sweeter and more wholesome. Most of the following receipts are such as have been used in our Institution for years ; a few are favorites at other institutions. All may be varied to suit individual wants, always keeping in mind the two words, simplicity and healthfulness. Cookies for Forty or Fifty.—Four cups of sugar; one cup of butter ; two cups of sour milk ; two tea-spoonfuls of cream-yeast, brown or white; flour sufficient to roll them out. Work them but little ; make them thin, and bake in a quick oven. Cup Cake for Seventy-five or Eighty.—Four cups sugar (white) ; one of butter ; four eggs ; rub these together ; then add three lea-cups of sweet milk ; ten tea-spoonfuls Taylor’s cream-yeast, mixed with the flour of which you use a sufficient quantity to make the whole into a stiff batter. Graham Cup Cake.—Unbolted wheat meal, two cupfuls ; buttermilk, one cup ; molasses, half-cup ; butter, quarter of a cup; eggs, two; soda, half a tea-spoonful. Bake half an hour.