RECIPES. 7' Kaspberry and blackberry pie may be made in tbe same manner. The flavor of these delicious berries, when quite ripe, is greatly in- jured by cooking; and they are also changed to a mass of little else than seeds and juice. Ripe Berry Pies, generally, may be prepared as above, and baked till the fruit is cooked, which takes only a few minutes. This method is much better than baking the fruit with the crust, as the greater part of the juice is often lost before the crust is cooked. Berry Tarts. —Cover gem-pans with crust, as for little pies, and bake ; when nearly done, fill up with berries and replace in the oven a few minutes. Note.—The four receipts mentioned above, are from Mrs. Cox’s Uygiene Cook book, a radical, but thoughtful little book of one hundred pages, which will repaj a careful reading. Pie for Dyspeptics.—Four table-spoonfuls of oatmeal, one pint of water; let stand a few hours, or till the meal is well swelled. Then add two large apples, pared and sliced, a little salt, one cup of sugar, one table-spoonful of flour. Mix all well together and bake in a but- tered pie-dish ; and you have a most delicious pie, which may be eateu with safety by the sick or well. We might go on giving other receipts for pies; but trust to the in- genuity of the reader to get up her own methods, bearing in mind al- ways the rule that they be healthfully made. CUSTARDS. Almond Custards.—One pint of milk ; half a pint of cream ; one ounce and a half of sweet almonds ; five yolks and two w'hites of eggs, and four ounces of white sugar. Boil the milk and cream with a small stick of cinnamon ; pour into a basin, and when cool, take out cinnamon ; set the milk on a slow fire, adding the sugar, the eggs, well beaten, and the almonds, blanched and chopped fine ; stir on the fire till thick, but do not allow it to boil; pour it into a jug or bowl, stirring it frequently till cold, and serve in custard glasses. Arrowroot Custards.—One ounce of arrowroot; three-quarters of a pint of milk, three ounces of sugar, and four eggs. Mix the arrowroot with a quarter of a pint of cold milk, adding the eggs, well beaten, the sugar, and a little almond-flavor; add half a pint of boil- ing milk, stirring constantly, and w’hen cold, serve in custard glasses. Milk Custard.—One pint of new milk ; one table-spoonful of flour; one table-spoonful of thick cream ; cinnamon ; almond-flavor, and sugar. Set the milk over the fire with a little cinnamon, stirring it till quite hot, but not allowing it to boil. Mix the cream and flour together ; pour on the hot milk ; stir well, adding the almond-flavor, and sugar. Bake lightly, without crust, in a moderate oven. Another.—One quart of new milk ; sugar, and one stick of cinna- mon. Boil the cinnamon in a pan with the new milk ; take the ]>an oil the fire, and stir in the sugar. Bake in pie or pudding dishes,