RECIPES. 78 lined with custard paste. The paste should he pricked with a fork, but not through to the dish, and partly baked before the custard is put in. Egg custard may be made in the same way, allowing five or six eggs, according to size, to a quart of new milk. Baked Custards.—One pint of cream ; four eggs ; cinnamon; al- mond-fiavor, and three ounces of sugar. Boil the cream with a piece of cinnamon ; pour it into a basin, and when cold, add the eggs, well beaten and strained, the sugar powdered, and a few drops of almond- flavor. Bake in small cups, in a cool oven. Plain Custards.—The same, without any condiments. One quart of new milk ; the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs ; five ounces of sugar ; quarter of a pint of cream ; the rind of a lemon, and a small stick of cinnamon. Boil the milk with the cinnamon, sugar, and the rind of the lemon, pared very thin; when the milk has boil- ed a few minutes, pour it into a bowl; beat the eggs, adding the cream, and mix well in the milk ; then strain the whole into the pan, and set it on a slow fire, stirring constantly till near boiling; pour it into a jug, stirring it till nearly cold, and serve in custard glasses. Gooseberry Custards.—Three pints of green gooseberries; quar- ter of a pound of sugar; four eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of orange- flower water. Set the gooseberries in cold water over a slow fire, and simmer till soft ; then drain the water away, and rub them through a sieve ; to a pint of pulp add the eggs, the sugar, and orange-flower water; set it over the fire, stirring constantly till it becomes thick, and when cold, serve in custard glasses. Lemon Custards.—Eight eggs ; six ounces of sugar; two lemons ; a tea-cupful of cream ; one pint of boiling water, anci two table-spoon- fuls of orange-flower water. Beat the yolks of the eggs till quite frothy ; pour on them the boiling water, stirring quickly all the time ; add the sugar, and the rind of the lemons, grated ; stir it over a slow fire, till thick, adding the cream, and orange-flower water; when hot, stir in the lemon-juice ; pour it into a basin ; stir till nearly cold, and serve in custard glasses. Lemon Custards.—One large lemon ; one quart of new milk; quarter of a pound of wdiite sugar, and seven eggs. Grate off the rind of the lemon ; put it with the sugar in the milk, and boil quarter of an hour ; strain, and let it remain till cool; then stir in the eggs, well beaten and strained, leaving out three whites; pour it into cups with half a tea-spoonful of fresh butter, melted, in each cup ; set them in water, and bake in a moderate oven; color them when done, by holding a hot salamander over, and serve cold, with sugar sifted on the top. Raspberry Custards.—One pint of cream; three quarters of a pint of raspberry juice, and half a pound of white sugar. Boil the cream; dissolve the sugar in the raspberry juice; mix it with the ooiling cream, stirring it till quite thick, and serve in custard glasses. Rice Custards.—One ounce and a half of ground rice ; three ounces of loaf sugar, and one pint of new milk. Boil the rice in the milk.