ICES. 106 Summer Beverages.—Take tlie genuine jelly of any fruit you like, dissolve it in water, sweeten to taste, and keep in a cool place; or if you have the fresh fruit, currants, raspberries, strawberries, cherries, grapes, bruise them in water, strain and sweeten. Keep in a cool ]>lace, and use as needed. Such drinks on ice will keep for several days. Capillaire.—Take fourteen pounds of sugar, break into it six eggs with the shells. Stir into it gradually three quarts of water. Set it over the fire and boil it, taking oil the scum until only a light froth rises. Add one gill of orange-fiower water, and two or three drops of vanilla ; strain through a jelly-bag, and when cold bottle it, cork- ing tightly. A wine glass in a tumbler of water is very refreshing. You may add to it slices of lemon, pineapple, crushed currants, or strawberries, as suits the taste and season. Eau Sucre.—Water, with sufficient sugar to make it sweet, is a common beverage in France, and there considered very wholesome and refreshing. Ladies generally take it before bedtime. It may be useful in some cases, but should not be used too freely. Grape Drink.—This is one of the most delicious and refreshing drinks ever devised by thirsty mortals. It is made of nearly ripe grapes pounded, loaf-sugar, and water. It is strained until it becomes of the palest straw-colored amber, and then frozen. Delicious drinks may be made from grapes by stewing with sugar and water. We leave the reader to use his or her own ingenuity in devising them. The fermented juice of the grape bears no comparison with these pure, simple, delicious beverages. ICES. Cream Sherbet.—Put the yolk of six eggs and a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower water into two quarts of cream. Boil it up once in a covered stew-pan, then strain it. Add three-fourths of a pound of fine loaf-sugar, and stir till dissolved. When cold set it in ice, or freeze same as ice cream. Lemon Sherbet.—Dissolve a pound and a half of loaf-sugar in a quart of water, take nine large lemons, wipe them clean, cut each in halves, squeeze them so as to get out both j uice and some of the es- sence of the peel, stir into it the sugared water, strain and freeze same as ice cream. Strawberry Sherbet.—Take one pound of best ripe strawberries, crush them to a smooth mass, then add three pints of water, the juice of one lemon, and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water. Let this stand three or four hours. Then put into another basin a pound of best refined sugar, stretch over it a cloth or napkin, and strain on the Sugar the berries, squeezing out the juice as much as possible. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then strain again, and set in ice an hour before serving, in small tumblers.