48 RECIPES. Brown Soup.—One pound of turnips, one pound of carrots, half a pound and six ounces of onions, one and a half pints of peas, four ounces of butter, and half a pound of bread. Cut the vegetables into small pieces, put them in a pan with the butter, cover the pan, and let them stew over the fire till brown, occasionally stirring them ; put in the peas with the water in which they were boiled ; add sufficient boiling water to make three quarts altogether; next add the bread, which should be browned or toasted before the fire, but not burnt; season, and let the soup boil gently for three or four hours ; rub it through a coarse sieve, return it into the pan ; let it boil, and it will be ready to serve. If dried peas are used, they should be steeped for twenty-four hours in soft water, and boiled for two hours. Barley Soup.—Three ounces of barley, one and a half ounces of stale bread crumbs, one ounce of butter, quarter of an ounce of chop- ped parsley, and half an ounce of salt. Wash, and steep the barley for twelve hours in half a pint of water, to which a piece of soda, the size of a pea, has been added ; pour off the water that is not absorbed ; add the bread crumbs, three quarts of boiling water, and the salt; boil slowly in a well-tinned covered pan for four or five hours, and add the parsley and butter about half an hour before the soup is ready to be served. Celery Soup.—Six roots of celery, one large turnip, two ounces of onions, four ounces of bread crumbs, one ounce of butter, one des- sert-spoonful of flour, and half a pint of cream. Strip off all the green part of the celery, using only the white ; cut it in shreds, reserving the inside of three of the roots to be added afterward ; slice the turnip and onion, and put them with the celery into a pan ; add two quarts of water, the bread crumbs, and a little salt; let all boil till the vege- tables are perfectly soft; rub through a sieve ; return it to the pan ; add the celery (previously boiled till quite soft), the butter, and flour, well mixed; stir it, seasoning it with a little mace ; and, after boiling a quarter of an hour, stir in the cream, but do not allow it to boil afterward. Browning for Soups.—Three large spoonfuls of brown sugar; one half pint of boiling water. Put the sugar into a frying-pan, set it on the fire to brown, stirring it with a wooden spoon, that it may not burn. When sufficiently dark-colored, stir into in the boiling water ; when thoroughly mixed put it into a bottle ; and, Avhen cold, cork it closely down, and use a tablespoonful or more, as may be required, to give a color to your soup. A burnt onion or two can be made of use for the purpose of browning, and is often considered better than the above recipe. Note.—For the convenience of those who have not an opportunity of weighing the ingredients for the soups, it may be stated that one large tablespoonful will be about equal to one ounce, and one teasponful to a quarter of an ounce. But weigh- ing should be resorted to whenever it is possible. Potato Soup.—One quart of potatoes, pared and cut into small strips or blocks, a large sprig of parsley, the same of thyme or sweet marjoram, cut fine; boil throe-fourths of an hour in three quarts of