114 TEA. tea is not nutritious, andtliat it actually increases the waste of the system. From this it may be inferred that tea is not a good drink for those who are dyspeptic and nervous, or those in which the waste of tissue is already more rapid than the supply. Dr. Edward Smith puts it in this way : “ Tea increases waste, since it promotes the transfor- mation of food without supplying any nutriment, and increases the loss of heat without supplying fuel. It is, therefore, specially adapted to those who eat too much, when the process of assimilation should be quickened, but is less adapted to the poor, the ill-fed, and during fasting.” Dr. Smith also gives the following as the generally admitted effects of tea: 1. A sense of wakefulness. 2. Clearness of mind and activity of thought and imagination. 3. Increased disposition to make exertion. 4. Keaction, with a sense of exhaustion following the preceding effects and in proportion to them. Analysis of Tea.—The active principle of tea is a substance called theine. One hundred parts of tea contain : Theine 2.00 Casein 15.00 Gum 18.00 Sugar 3.00 Tannin 26.25 Starch 0.75 Fat 4.00 Vegetable fiber. 20.00 Mineral substances.... 5.00 Water 5.00 The chemical The amount of theine varies from two to six per cent, formula for theine is C‘®. H*“. N*. 0.* + IPO. Practical Hints Concerning the Use of Tea.—The following hints concerning the use of tea may prove useful : 1. Whoever uses tea should do so in great moderation. 2. It should form a part of the meal, but never be taken before eat- ing, or between meals, or on an empty stomach, as is too frequently done. 3. The best time to take tea is after a hearty meal. 4. Those who suffer with weak nerves should never take it at all. 5. Those who are troubled with inability to sleep nights should not use tea, or if they do, take it only in the morning. 6. Brain-workers should never goad on their brains to overwork on the stimulus of tea. 7. Children and the young should not use tea. 8. The overworked and under-fed should not use tea. 9. Tea should never be drunk very strong. 10. It is better with considerable milk and sugar. 11. Its use should at once be abandoned when harm conies from it. 12. Multitudes of diseases come from the excessive use of tea, and for this reason those who cannot use it without going to excess should not use it at all. Tea and Sick Headache.—The following, from the Medical Inves- tigator, has an important bearing on the use of tea : “ Dr. Gregg pub- lished an article in the Homoeopathic Quarterly on tea, as a cause of