RECIPES. 90 forms, or any part wliicli may be dry, mix a little milk with the mush to soften it ; then work in Graham or middlings till you can make the dough u]) into balls as large as a black walnut, and bake on the grate in a moderately quick oven. Boiled Rice.—Wash and drain off one pint of good new rice ; put into a covered saucepan with one quart of boiling water. Boil briskly for five or ten minutes, or until the water is mostly absorbed ; then set on one side of the stove, and let it steam steadily fifteen or twenty minutes. Keep closely covered all the,time, and do not stir it at all after it begins to boil. The Southern people, who know both how to cook and to eat rice, never allow the lid to be removed while the steam- ing is going on ; perhaps just lifting one side of the cover to peep in, and see that it does not burn. When done just right, every grain will be swelled to its utmost, and bursted open. To be eaten as a veget- able, or with cream or maple syrup. Oatmeal Musii.—Julia Colman, who has charge of the cooking of the Hygienic Hotel, No. 13 & 15 Laight Street, New York, hands us the following method : “ To three quarts of boiling water add one level teaspoonful of salt and one quart of good oatmeal, stirring while the latter is poured in slowly. Let it stand where it will boil gently, and stir it occasion- ally for ten minutes, or until the meal is evenly diffused through the water. Then cover close, and place where it will barely simmer for one hour. Do not stir it during that time. Serve warm, messing it as little as possible. ♦ Hygienic Plum Pudding.—This is from the Dietetic Reformer: “Put together in a basin some currants and sultana raisins that have been well washed and dried; add wheat-meal fiour in proportions pre- ferred, whether for a plain pudding or more fruit; stir in gradually cold filtered rain-water, beating the mixture well; make it the usual consistency of plum-pudding ; bake in a well-butt-ered dish, or boil several hours in a cloth. To suit some tastes, add a little sugar, candied peel, and grated lemon peel.” A Delicious Cracker.—A delicious and wholesome cracker.—Take equal parts " middlings ” and Graham flour. Wet with new or sweet milk, and knead rather stiff. Work it a good deal on the board ; then roll out to one quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut out in dia- monds or squares; prick them, and bake in a quick oven. Bake best right on the grates. Mixed Gems.—Take a half-pint of corn-meal, pour boiling water upon it, enough to wet it; then cool with skim-milk to the consistency of pancake batter ; and thicken with equal parts of “ middlings” and Graham flour ; to be baked the same as gems, only not so quickly. Quaker Mince Pies.—Chop fine a half-dozen of large bell-flowers or greenings; add one cup of raisins, well cooked ; one cup of canned cherries, whortle-berries, or other fruit to suit the taste ; then a pinch of salt, and sugar or syrup enough to sweeten to the taste ; lastly, add n cup of sweet cream when ready to use. Bake with cream crust.