PEACTICAL DIETETICS. 136 fin article of diet. Tiie Americans use it as a relish, and luxury, hut rarely as an article of nourishment, We believe Americans use too much meat. Those who wish for a substitute will find it in good eggs and cheese. With these foods, used properly, and fish, we need rarely use meat. ^ MEAT AND THE EXCRETIONS. Does meat tax the excretory organs severely ? Ans.—Very much meat severely taxes the kidneys to carry off any surplus of effete nitrogenous matter. ANIMAL FOOD AND BRAVERY. Does not animal food make people braver and bolder than vegetable food? Ans.—Such may be true, but we do not believe it. Good food, and plenty of it, and good health may help to make people brave, and to a great extent this depends on food ; but that bravery is the result of eating either animal or vegetable food we very much doubt. EXCITING AN APPETITE. When a person has a poor appetite, is it wise to sharpen it by arti- ficial devices ? Ans.—Such a practice is wrong, and may lead to baneful results. FAT AND SCROFULA. Does fat food produce scrofula ? Ans.—It is believed that fat pork does produce scrofula, but we do not think that other fats produce it. Indeed, fat in some forms is essential to health. EATING PORK. A country friend writes : “ It is now about hog-killing time ; every- body round here, men, women and children, will almost live on pork for weeks to come—pork soups, pork mince pies, pork cake, and pork everything. Do you think pork is a nutritious article of food, and ever suitable as an article of diet for children ? Many here think it ridiculous to say that pork is not healthy. Will you please give us your ideas on this question ? Ans.—1. It is the source of nearly all the tape-worms found in the human body. Now and then one comes from eating beef or mutton ; but this is a very rare occurrence. 2. It is the source of all the trichina, that so dreadfully affects human beings at times, these never coming from other meat. 3. Hogs are almost always fattened so as to be actually diseased before killing. 4. It is generally believed that pork-eating is a common source of scrofula. 5. For sedentary people and for women it furnishes far too much of the fats for the best nutrition of the body.