PEACTICAL DIETETICS. 126 in quality, quantity, and variety tlie dietary of nearly every school I have known is more or less defective. The usually unvaried breakfast of tea or coffee (and these fluids too often of a miserably thin description), with bread and butter, is a meagre meal for a boy who has to break a twelve hours’ fast. It is not enough for the robust, nor varied enough for the delicate. A good basin of bread and milk, or milk porridge, should always be allowed as a substitute for tea or coffee ; and the latter, when preferred, should always be accompanied with some little extra, such as a bit of cold meat, or an egg—sometimes the one, sometimes the other, so as to secure the utmost possible variety. The fault of most school dinners is roughness in the cooking and serving, insufficient variety in the form and kind of meat and veget- ables, and the too frequent absence of puddings. It will be seen by the above dietary that with very little strain of culinary arrangements meat may be served up in half a dozen different forms each week, and if two kinds of it always come to table, ample variety will have been attained. Variety in food is no mere luxury or pampering of appetite. In all cases desirable, in the case of growing boys it is highly so ; while in the case of boys with delicate or capricious apj)etites, it becomes an absolute necessity. A certain percentage of such boys will be found in every school—boys who, if denied considerable range of choice in their food, will at least fail to thrive in the midst of plenty. Many boys, being small meat-eaters, should at least have the chance of making up ” with something further, and good reason can be given why this something should be a well-sweetened pudding or tart; if containing fresh or preserved fruit, so much the better. All boys, as a rule, dislike meat fat, and leave it on their plates, and it is a bar- barous practice to try to make them eat it. And yet the same fat, in a different guise, embodied with flour in a well-cooked pudding, they as universally like. All boys, again, love sugar and the juices of fresh vegetables or fruits, and it is a grave mistake not to secure a fair pro- portion of these elements in their daily food. Now a well-made fruit pudding or tart combines these several elements in happy proportion and palatable form, and boys’ universal liking for this article of diet is simply the practical expression of the physiological truth, that fat and its chemical allies, starch and sugar, together with certain organic acids and salts, are indispensable to the healthy constitution of the blood—in other words, to the due building up and maintenance of the fabric of the body. A boy who has dined at 1 or 1.30 is ready by 6 o’clock for something more than the eternal tea and bread and butter. He keenly relishes at this meal some little variety or addition, such as plain home-made cake, or some fruit, or a bit of whatever salad herb may be in season. In the dietary above quoted, it will excite surprise* that no beer or other stimulant is allowed either at dinner or at any other meal or time in the day. If proof were needed that boys may grow up in the perfection of health and strength without any stimulants whatever, provided they- are liberally fed, I might point to the splendid jjhysique * Remember this is written of England, not America.