132 PRACTICAL DIETETICS. A HYGIENIC MEAL. Will you please give us a bill of fare for a simple, wholesome breakfast without meat ? Ans.—Raised Graham bread, gems, baked potatoes, baked apples, cream, biitter, boiled eggs. If you have cold mush, whether made of corn-meal, oatmeal, or Graham flour, you may cut it in slices, place upon slightly buttered pans, and warm in the oven. Bake the potatoes in a hot oven, and take them out the moment they are done, or they will be heavy, waxy, and sodden. Removed at just the right time, they will be white and mealy, and such are better cold than over- baked ones, though steaming hot. Then for a simple drink mix equal parts of corn-meal or Graham flour, or corn-meal and oatmeal, stir a cupful of this in two quarts of boiling water, boil for twenty minutes, then add a quart of milk, pour into a pitcher, and send to the table. A cupful is an indefinite quantity ; we purposely leave it so, for some will prefer for that quantity of gruel a very small cupful, and some will prefer it thicker. Puddings or cracked wheat, cooked the day before, may be placed on the breakfast table cold or slightly warmed, to be eaten with sugar and hot milk or stewed berries. To be added to the bill, if the family is large, or substituted for some of the articles if the family be small, consider the following: Baked squash, Graham bread toast, with boiling milk thickened with corn-starch poured over it, or add to boiling milk, broken stale bread ; boil for one minute and send to the table hot. Graham mush, oatmeal mush, or cracked wheat, sent to the table in saucers, hot, to be eaten with sugar and cream or stewed fruit; corn bread or corn-meal gems; cabbage, cut fine, boiled in a small quantity of water, add cream dressing or lemon juice; boil together freshly pared turnips and potatoes (the turnips must boil awhile before the potatoes are added); as soon as done pour off the water, dry for a moment, mash finely, add a little milk or cream, then stir well with a fork, dish and send to the table hot. ■ TO MAKE OATMEAL RELISH How can oatmeal be made to relish ? Ans.—Fill a saucer nearly full of well-cooked oatmeal. Now fill the oatmeal full of strawberries (pressing them in), ripe peaches, ripe pears, or some such fruit. Add a little sugar and cream. It is a rich and delicate dish. BREAD MADE WITH SEA WATER. Can a wholesome bread be made with sea water ? Ans.—M. Rabuteau calls attention to the importance of this article. In the first place it is very pleasant eating, also increasing the appe- tite and stimulating digestion. On board ship, bread so prepared has been found very c.onducive to the preservation of health during long voyages. It also exerts important medicinal effects, especially in dysx)epsia. In phthisis and in scrofula it is said to be a powerful ad- juvant. Of this, however, we have little positive knowledge.