145 PRACTICAL DIETETICS. lately essential to their comfort. As soon as the child is old enough give it a tooth-brush and give instructions for use, and see that it is done often and thoroughly. The brushes to be used should be adapted to each case, neither too soft nor too hard, and so formed as to clean the teeth without injuriously irritating the surrounding tissues. Brushes for children should not be quite as stiff as for older persons, the gums, not having been subjected to as much friction, are not so dense. Procure brushes of a medium width and narrow at their extremity, so as easily to penetrate to the last molars without wound- ing the cheeks; they should have three rows of bristles, with the handle slightly bent, so as to allow of an easy and graceful motion. ICE. How can ice be kept in small quantities, in a sick room, without its immediately melting ? Ans.—Make a double pocket of strong woolen cloth, no matter how coarse and faded it is. Have a space, about two inches or so, between the inner and outer pockets, and pack this space as full as possible with feathers. You have no need to use geese feathers ; hen feathers are just as good. With a pocket thus constructed, and kept closely tied at the mouth, a few pounds of ice may be kept several days. STARCHY MATTER FOR BABES. Can an infant be fed on preparations containing much starch when the mother has not sufficient milk for it ? Ans.—No. The starchy preparations so common in the nursery are very deleterious, and starve the little one. There is no starch in milk. Never feed a baby on arrow-root, unless you desire to kill it. BAKING-POWDERS. What are baking-powders made of, and are they proper things to be introduced into the stomach ? Ans.—The modern baking-powders, as a rule, consist of tartaric acid and carbonate of soda, which evolve the necessary gas, when in contact with water, to make the bread light, leaving behind a residue of tartrate of soda. In practice, they are made by mixing together these two substances (first thoroughly dried and pounded) in nearly equal proportion, and then diluting the mixture thus made with any cheap material—such as flour of rice—so as to add to the bulk, and enable an apparently greater quantity of baking-powder to be sold for a given sum. Many excellent food authorities have objected to the use of baking-powders thus made, on the ground that it behooves us to be careful how we add to the already suflficiently large amount of mineral matter which we naturally consume daily. We should hesi- tate before we advised the whole bread of a family to be thus pre- pared, though for some of the minor articles of food only occasionally used, they may do little harm. Unfortunately, some of the manufac- turers of baking-powders are guilty of the addition of alum in con- siderable quantities. n