PRACTICAL DIETETICS. 122 FORCE-GIVING FOOD IN SUMMER. But shall we eat no heat and force-giving' foods in summer? Ans.—Yes. Brown bread, oatmeal, and fruits are all force-giving, hut to a less extent than fats, yet sufficiently so for the requirements of the season, and those persons who have very much muscular work to do may use more freely force-giving foods in hot weather than those whose labor is sedentary and light. From experiments which we have seen tried over and over again, however, we are satisfied that even farmers in the hottest days of summer who are obliged to work in the harvest field can do more work, suffer less with heat, and incur less risk of sunstroke by following the rules we have laid down, than by using a highly carbonized diet of oils and fats. HAM AND EGGS. Do you think ham and eggs are objectionable in spring? Ans.—Eggs are allowable. Indeed, lightly poached and dressed on toast they make an excellent food, but ham is not a good article of diet for any except the lowest of human beings, and even for these it is not so good as eggs, bread, oatmeal, and milk. Eggs, however, do not seem to be relished with every meal for days in succession, and hence should be taken at intervals as the aj^petite tolerates them. DAILY VARIATION OF DIET. Should the diet he varied from day to day, or remain unchanged ? Ans.—The diet should he tuaried in kind and form quite frequently, though not necessarily every day. Even in health, the best viands when continued from day to day become unpalatable, and even nause- ous. An occasional change of diet, in short, is indispensable to a proper relish for food, and the maintenance of the appetite and good health. AMOUNT OF FOOD REQUIRED DAILY. IIow much food is needed daily by a healthy person ? Ans.—The amount varies greatly, for the following reasons : 1. Great vigor, activity of the circulation of the blood, and the elimi- nation of worn-out particles increase the amount necessary. 2. Great physical exertion increases the required amount, and inac- tivity diminishes it. 3. Cold increases the amount of food needful, while heat decreases it, but increases the amount of water needful. 4. Rapid growth, as in childhood, increases the amount of food de- manded by the body, while ill health diminishes it for the time being. 5. The amount of food required varies greatly with the assimilative power. As some steam-engines are constructed so that the same amount of fuel generates more steam than it would in other engines, so some persons can get more out of a pound of food than others, be- cause they more perfectly digest it.