71 RECIPES. Boil a tea-cupful of rich milk or cream, thicken with a epoonful of hour, and pour over the cabbage, which has been taken up into a vege- table dish and all the water drained off. Add a little salt and a sprinkle of cayenne. Cabbage with Milk.—Cut half of a solid head of cabbage fine as for slaw. Have a deep spider on the lirfi and hot. Put in your cab- bage, pour quickly over it a pint of boiling water, cover close, and cook for ten minutes ; then pour off the water that remains, and add half a pint of rich milk. When the milk boils up stir in a tea-spoon- ful of dour moistened with a little cream or milk, a sprinkle of salt, and cook the Hour a minute, then dish up. Those who usually find cabbage an unpleasantly indigestible article of food will be gratified with the result of this mode of cooking it. It is quite like caulifiower, and is much cheaper. Dk. Everett’s Choice.—Cut fine as much clean nice cabbage as will fill a spider. Place it in this utensil, cover with a plate, and let it cook till done in the steam from its own juices. Onions.—The unpleasant breath which eating this vegetable pro- duces is perhaps the greatest objection to its use, but still it is a very wholesome and desiralile article of food for many, and hence should be brought on the table in the most attractive form. White onions, and those grown in the South, are least odorous and pungent. Take off the outside skin, cut off both ends close, and let them stand in cold water an hour, then drop them into a saucepan with two quarts of boiling water. Cover, and boil fifteen minutes. Have a kettle of boil- ing water on the fire ready for use, pour off the water from the onions, and add as much more—be sure the water is boiling—and boil half an hour longer. Scald a cupful of rich milk, pour off the second water from the onions, add the milk and a little Graham flour to thicken it. Salt and otherwise season to taste. Boil up a few minutes and serve the onions whole ; or they may be cut in halves before cooking. Cold Slaw.—Take half a head of white cabbage, cut it into fine shreds, and put into a bowl or deep dish. Add the juice of a large lemon and two spoonfuls of cold water, and stir together ; then sift evenly over the cabbage three or four table-spoonfuls of granulated sugar ; shake the dish so that the sugar may be diffused, but do not stir it again. Let it stand ten or fifteen minutes and then serve. Grape or currant vinegar is very nice instead of lemon, and a pref- erable acid with many. Potato Salad.—Cut six or eight cold potatoes into even, thin slices, and put into a salad dish. Cut fine, and sprinkle over the potatoes a tea-spoonful of parsley, and a little salt and cayenne. Stir half a tea-cupful of good cream until it is very smooth and foamy ; pour over the potatoes, and mix carefully, so as not to break the slices. A little prepared mustard, and a few stalks of white celery chopped fine, is an addition. This is a good dish for a hearty lunch.