124 PRACTICAL DIETETICS. extensive, and tlie loss must be made good by an abundant supply of food. AMOUNT OF FOOD FOR MEN vs. WOMEN. Wbicb eat tlie most food, men or women ? Ans.—Men eat more than women, when tbeir work is of tbe same kind. It does not follow, however, that because men eat more that they get more strength from their food, for generally women have bet- ter digestive organs, and abstract more nutriment from the same amount of food. So, too, while men and women eat at the same table, it is observable that they do not eat the same quantities of the same dishes. Men eat more heartily of the force-giving foods than women do, probably because there is more demand for them. This is perhaps the only dif- ference. At a restaurant largely patronized by ladies, I have noticed that biscuit, tea, cake, ice cream, and delicacies were more in demand by women, and meats and hearty food by men. BOARDING-SCHOOL TABLES, STUDENTS’ DIET. Do you think the students at boarding-schools are sufficiently well fed? Ans.—Generally they are not well fed. Boarding-schools, the world over, we believe, are generally thought to feed the youth who attend them on rather meager fare, though there are many notable excep- tions. Proprietors of these schools seem to have the matter of econo- my more at heart than the health of their pupils. They do not seem to know that growing boys and girls need to be fed as well as growing calves and colts, or pigs, but can get on with a small amount of food. We once knew a school that boarded pupils and threw in their tuition, for tweWe to fifteen dollars a quarter of twelve weeks. How did they do it ? By half starving the boys and girls that lived in the house. White bread, hashed potatoes, or tough steak, wdth a trifle of sauce, was the daily bill of fare, with little variation. The proprietor, a strong, hearty man, used to sit at the head of the table, say grace, and eat as fast as he could himself ; when through, rest his knife on the table as a notice to return thanks, and send all away. The result was, hearty, growing boys were half starved, and foraging on orchards and cornfields was always going on. We are so impressed with the importance of this subject, that we copy from the London Food Journal the substance of an article show- ing how the boys are fed in a certain English school. We should modify it materially for this country. For instance, we should leave out the tea and colTee, and substitute milk or water or cocoa. For boys and girls, in this excitable climate, tea and coffee are much worse than in England. Wine and ale also should be left out, and less meat eaten. If a lunch be taken, it should be of fruit. Oatmeal and maple or other good syrup, or wheat and corn-meal mush should be added daily, and so should good home-made brown bnuid, and light, unleavened cakes or gems. No boy or girl should be under-fed. All desserts should be plain and nutritious. Rich cakes and pies, and hot