RECIPES. 75 Bome beaten white of egg all over tlie top with a soft paste-brush ; then strew coarsely pounded or rough granite sugar over the entire sur- face, and bake lightly in a moderately hot oven. Jam Tuknovers,—Roll out some short paste about one-eighth of an inch thick ; cut it in pieces about four inches in length, and between two and three inches in breadth ; lay on each a little apple jam, or any other preserved fruit, without syrup ; turn the edges over, wetting them, as little as possible, with water; press them lightly together, and also the ends; lay them on tins, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Ice them very perfectly, and return them to the oven for a few minutes, or set them in a Dutch or American oven before the fire. Apple Pie Cake.—Mix unbolted wheat with cold water, making a batter soft enough to nearly level itself. If shortening is desired, use sweet cream or butter. Fill a rather deep pie-plate about a third full of the batter, and sprinkle over a little sugar. Wash, quarter, and core tart apples, and place as many in the batter (skin side up) as it will hold. They may be pressed down and leveled with a stiff spoon. Over the top sprinkle some sugar, and bake till nicely brown. This cake is both wholesome, nutritious, and delicious. Children and grown folks can eat of it freely without injury. Cocoa-Nut Pies.— Open the e^es of a cocoa-nut with a pointed knife or a gimlet, and pour out the milk into a cup ; then break the shell and take out the meat and grate it fine. Take the same weight of sugar and the grated nut and stir together ; beat four eggs, the whites and yolks separately, to a stiff foam ; mix one cup of cream, and the milk of the cocoa-nut with the sugar and nut, then add the eggs and a few drops of orange or lemon extract. Line deep pie-tins with a nice crust, fill them with the custard and bake carefully half an hour, Lemok Pie.—For each peeled and grated lemon add one tea-cup of sugar, and one table-spoonful of corn-starch dissolved in cold water. Over this pour a tea-cup of boiling water. Crust. One part white flour, one part Graham flour, one part corn- meal. Shorten it with butter or condensed milk, reduced one-third. Use two crusts. The above recipe for lemon pie is used in our Institution, and has given perfect satisfaction. Anotueu Recipe.—Take two lemons, two eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of water, and one large table-spoonful of flour. After grating the peel, take off and throw away the white rind, and cut the lemon iu small pieces, carefully picking out the seeds. After the under crust is laid in, sugar it well. Bake with two crusts. Lemon pie is not quite so easily managed by the stomach, and should be eaten more eparingly than apple pie. Pumpkin or Squash Pie.—Cut the pumpkin into small pieces; take out the seeds and inside, but do not pare it. It must be a well- grown and thoroughly ripened pumpkin, and not watery. Put the