RECIPES. 84 Italian Cream.—One quart of cream reduced by one pint of milk, and set on ice to cool. Beat the cream and milk with a good egg- beater fifteen minutes thoroughly. Dissolve two ounces of gelatine in a gill of water, and strain it through a flannel bag into the cream. Add two cups of sugar and flavor, if desired, with lemon or vanilla. Stir briskly for three or four minutes; pour into serving-dishes and set on ice to cool. Cookies.—One cup of butter ; two of sugar; half a cup of milk ; four eggs ; two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder ; half a nutmeg. As little flour as possible, and roll out. Sponge Cake.—Six eggs ; the weight of six eggs in sugar, and the weight of four In flour, with lemon extract, or a little grated lemon- peel ; a little salt, and a spoonful of baking-powder. Delicate Cake.—When making cocoanut-custard use the whites of the eggs as follows : One cup of white sugar ; five table-spoonfuls of butter ; whites of six eggs ; one teacup of sweet milk; three cups of prepared flour, or to the same quantity of common flour add one tea- spoonful of soda, and two of cream-of-tartar sifted in the flour. Flavor with orange, lemon, or vanilla. Note.—So says Mrs. Beecher : “We would substitute a teacupful of sweet, rich cream, instead of the milk and butter. Also, cream-yeast instead of prepared flour, or soda and cream-of-tartar.” We give in this connection a recipe for cocoanut- custard, as the two can be more economically made at the same baking. CocoANUT Custard.—One pound of grated cocoanut; one pint of rich milk, and six ounces of sugar. Beat the yolks of six eggs and stir them into the milk with the nut and sugar. Put into a farina- kettle, or into a small pail which you can set into a kettle of boiling water. Stir all the time till very smooth and thick ; as soon as it comes to a boil take off and pour into cuj3S. Ground Rice Cake.—Break five eggs into a ste\\q:>an, which place in amffher, containing hot water ; whip the eggs foi\ ten minutes till very light; then mix in by degrees half a pound of ground rice ; six ounces of i)owdered sugar ; beat it well ; any flavor may be introduced ; pour into a buttered pan and bake half an hour. MOLDED FAllINACEA. Arrowroot.—Take four ounces of arrowroot, one quart of new milk, and four ounces of white sugar. Set a pint and a half of milk on the tire, adding the sugar ; when boiling, put in the arrowroot, previously mixed till perfectly smooth with half a pint of cold milk, and stir constantly till it has boiled three minutes ; and pour it into a mold previously dipped in cold water. Barley.—Six ounces of Scotch barley ; three pints and a half of water, and six ounces of sugar. Steep the barley twelve hours ; drain it, and pour the water, boiling, upon it; stew quickly in the oven in an earthenware jar, covered, till perfectly soft, and all the water is absorbed ; when al)out half boiled enougli, add the sugar, and