EE(;iPES. 92 end—the core lies nearest to that part—do not go through, hut make a cup, into which put a teaspoonful of sugar ; set the apples close to- gether in a deep dish, add a teacupful of water, put into the oven and hake. Sweet apples pre])ared in the same manner are very nice. A lemon cut in very thin slices, and a slice laid on each aiiple may he a desirable flavoring. Boiled Peaks.—Take hard pears, wash, and remove specks ; ho sure that they are sound at the core; put them into a fruit-kettle, cover them with water—at least a quart—and boil them slowly an hour ; then add a sufficient quantity of sugar to make a lively syrup; hoil half or three-quarters of an hour, and serve cold. Crushed Wheat.—This pre])aration of wheat is not yet generally in use hy those who are in favor of farinaceous food. The whole grain is “crushed” in such a manner as to retain all its particles quite together. Nothing is lost or sifted out. It is made from good white wheat, and is very clean, and well put up in packages. It cooks more readily than the cracked grain, has more gluten, and has all the sweetness and flavor of the wheat. I cook it j ust as I do oatmeal; hav- ing a quart or two of boiling water on the fire, stir in two handfuls of the grain—all I can grasp—for each quart of water ; hoil rai^idly for twenty minutes, stirring frequently to prevent its adhering to the hot- tom of the kettle ; then let it simmer over a slow fire for ten minutes, covered tightly. I like it better when cool; the gluten forms a jelly, and when molded makes a handsome dish for the table. To he eaten warm a little more grain must he added when you make it. It is de- licious and wholesome with cream, light fruits, and sugar. French Honey.—Break one pound of lump sugar into pieces, put it into a pan, and add the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of four, the juice of four lemons, and the grated rind of two, and three ounces of butter. Stir this mixture over a slow fire, until it becomes thick like honey. It will keep a year, put into a dry, cool place. This is nice for a variety of tarts or shells. Jellies.—Currants and grapes make the best and cheapest jelly for home use. Select large, ripe currants, fresh from the bushes as possi- ble, pick out all the leaves or old currants, let the clusters remain on the stems ; weigh six pounds of the fruit thus cleaned, put ihto a stone or earthen vessel, add a pint of fresh water, then take a wooden masher and crush the berries thoroughly. I have a strong, thin linen towel sewed firmly into a poke, into which I put a pint or so of the crushed berries, wring and squeeze them completely ; emptying and filling until all the juice is secured, of which there will be about five pints. To this j nice add five pounds of best brown sugar, ])utting the whole into a porcelain kettle over a good fire, stir slowly Avith a silver or wooden spoon, and let it boil fifteen or twenty minutes. By this time, if the fruit is fresh, there is no failure of the jelly. Then I put it up in pint size, self-sealing glass jars for common use. It is, I really think, as cheap, and far more delicious for meats,than cranberries, and as a relisli of fruit. It costs about twenty-five cents a pint, or ])i)und. The best brown sugar makes the richest jelly, and with more uniform success. If you want a delicate color, and more acid jelly, use white