m COCOA AND CHOCOLATE. Methods of Preparing Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa. Tea.—The theine of tea is without flavor. This depends on the aroma, whidi should all be extracted from the leaf. The dried juices of the leaf, on the other hand, should not be extracted further than to give body to the drink, otherwise it will be bitter and the aroma will be covered up or hidden. The best rule to secure the aroma and not too much of the body is to put the tea into hot water, and keep it at or near the boiling point for five minutes. If cooked longer than this the aroma will be dissipated, more theine will be extracted and the tannin, which makes tea bitter, will be in excess. The best water for tea is pure spring-water. It should be fresh and used im- mediately after boiling. After the tea is cooked it should be strained and kept hot till used. Coffee.—Soyer’s mode of making coffee was to warm the powder over the fire first, then to pour the boiling water over it; cover it closely for five minutes, strain it, and boil again for use. French coffee is made by adding a pint of made coffee to a pint of boiling milk and warming them both together, but not letting them boil too long. Chocolate.—Cut a cake of chocolate in very small pieces, boil a pint of water, when it is at the boiling point add the chocolate ; mill it off the fire till quite melted, then place it on a gentle fire till it boils. Pour into a basin and it will keep for ten days. When required, put a spoonful or two into fresh milk, boil it with sugar and mix well. Mill to a fine froth and serve. Cocoa.—It made from the ribs, boil a quarter of a pound of them in three quarts of water to two quarts and a half. The ribs to be strained after five hours’ boiling. If made from paste or powder, use one and a half teaspoonful of cocoa to a cup of boiling milk. Sugar to taste. Or one and a half teaspoonful of cocoa, three quarters of a cupful of boiling water. Sugar to taste and fill the cup with milk. Conclusion. Some hygienists will find much fault that we have not condemned entirely the use of tea and coffee, but though we never use them our- selves, we have thought best to give the results of late scientific stud- ies on the subject, and such cautions regarding their use as Avill enable those who do use them to do so with as little harm as possible. If asked what is the proper amount of these drinks for each day, we should say, do not exceed one cup of tea or coffee, and at farthest two of cocoa or chocolate.