146 rEACTICAL DIETETICS. HUMILIATION IN EATING AND DRINKING. Are not eating and drinking liumiliating acts, ratlier than an en- nobling, elevating one ? Ans, — No. There are those who pretend that it is humiliating to he afflicted by purely animal needs; others, on the contrary, are of opinion that as feeding is a delectable operation, we ought to be very thankful that we can perform it so frequently ; a third class thinks nothing about it either way, while doctors, economists, and historians regard eating as a grave question, as one of the keys to health, and as a serious element in the progress of civilization. And there is another point of view, more interesting still. We meet to eat; our repasts are made in com- pany, they bring families and friends together, they exercise a unify- ing effect of enormous force. Our dinners may, however, be a source of gluttony and dissipation, if we will make them so. Should not each one determine that they shall minister to good, and not to evil? We should always go to the table with a cheerful spirit and keep cheerful as long as we sit there, and try to make others so. ENERGY AND FOOD. Can all the energy in food be extracted during digestion ? Ans.—As a general rule, all the energy of food cannot be extracted from it by the body. If it could be, then an ounce of lean beef would give strength sufficient to lift fifty-five tons one foot high ; an ounce of veal, forty-five tons one foot high ; an ounce of bread, eighty-three tons ; an ounce of rice, one hundred and forty-five tons ; an ounce of oatmeal, one hundred and fifty-two tons; an ounce of pea-meal, one hundred and forty-six tons; an ounce of potatoes, thirty-eight tons ; an ounce of carrots, twenty tons ; an ounce of cabbage, sixteen tons ; an ounce of butter, two hundred and eighty tons; an ounce of the white of an egg, twenty-two tons ; an ounce of the yolk of an egg, one hundred and twenty-seven tons ; an ounce of good cheese, one hundred and sixty-eight tons ; an ounce of milk, twenty-four tons; and an ounce of sugar, one hundred and thirty tons, one foot high. In order, how- ever, to get all this strength out of food it must be well digested, an<? used to advantage. There must be no waste. It is calculated that thf strength developed from food in the average body is equal daily to ar amount that will lift five thousand tons one foot high. But by far th« larger part of this is used up in keeping the body warm, circulating, the blood, digesting food, etc., so that the available force of the bod / is only a small portion of this. DIETETIC REFORMERS. Do you think those dietetic reformers, who, like Sylvester Graham advise the disuse of salt, butter, milk, sugar, eggs, cheese, condiments and all forms of fat as well as flesh, have a correct notion of diet? Ans.—No. True dietetics must be founded on science and commo* sense, and not on conceptions of the brain or fancies of theorizers. W i do not doubt but science will yet show us how to live without flesh, but it will never show us how to live without nourishing, wholesomi food, containing the fats, salts, and all the elements of complete nutri