RECIPES. 58 Indian Griddles.—Two cups of meal, one of flour, one of milk, one of water, one egg well beaten, two teaspoonsful of cream yeast, sifted into the meal and flour. Mix and bake on hot griddles, Graham Gems.—You are supposed to have the baking irons or “setting” for these gems; else we don’t know what you will do. They are to be had of hardware dealers ; at least no kitchen is fur- nislied without them. These gems are displacing all other kinds of coarse bread on our table. They can be eaten with butter or without butter, hot or cold, morning, noon, and night. They are as handy as crackers ; are just what you want for children’s lunch, and to fill in when you are making up a picnic basket. They are not only hygienic, but are good in the mouth. They have an almond-like sweetness, and their fibre is like that of nut-meats, giving the teeth just the ex- ercise they crave. No taste of “ emptyings.” But to our receijd, which will not be half as long as this preamble. Put the irons in the oven, where they will get hot by the time you have mixed the gems. Then take milk and water, half and half, and stir in Graham flour. No. 1, till you have a batter that will “ drop from the spoon and not run.” Stir very thoroughly, the more the better. Drop into the hot irons and bake immediately. (If you are quick you can take the irons out of the oven for better convenience in filling.) The oven is a gi-and point. It should have a solid heat, and bake as fast as it can and not burn. “If at first you don’t succeed, try, try again.” Make the bat- ter a little thicker or thinner, the oven a little slower or quicker (quicker more likely). There is a way, and you will find it, and then be able to repeat your success as often as you wish. Wheat Meal Unleavened Cakes (Gems).—To one quart of soft, cold water, add, by degrees, three pints of coarsely ground wheat meal. Stir rapidly, with a large spoon, three or four minutes, so as to incorporate a large amount of atmosi^here. Dip out into iron baking molds, which have been heated liot and oiled. Bake immediately in an oven as hot as it can be and not burn, for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Diminish the heat after fifteen minutes. Iron molds are better than tin. The small size, about three inches in length, and one and a half in width, is better than the larger sizes. The proportions of water and meal in this formula arc for white wheat. For red wheat a little more meal is necessary. One-sixth corn meal is an improve- ment, in which case it needs a heaping measure of meal to the water. Oat Meal and Graham Gems,—Mix equal parts of fine Irish oat meal and Graham flour into a thick batter with milk and water equal parts, fill hot gem irons and bake with a brisk heat. Very sweet and tender. Wheat Meal Bolls.— Pour boiling water on unbolted wheat meal, stirring rapidly with a strong spoon or stick. The dough should be scarcely stiff enough to retain its shape. Of this take por- tions about the size of a hen’s egg, and roll it into a round form three or four inches in length ; a plenty of dry flour to prevent sticking. Bake at once. The coating of flour also prevents the escapa of air