KECIPES. GO Fried Egg Sandwiches.—Beat some eggs well; fry tliem in but- ter as a pancake. When cold, cut in small square pieces, and lay them between brown bread and butter. Omelet Sandwiches.—Take four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, and one half ounce of chopped parsley. After beating the eggs well, add the bread crumbs, then the parsley, and two table- spoonfuls of water. Season, and fry it in small fritters, and when cold put them between brown bread and butter, VEGETABLES. All green vegetables should be as fresh as possible. Put them into cold water with some salt in it, for about ten minutes, to clear from soil or insects. If not quite fresh, let them remain in the water some time longer; drain in a colander, and put them into a pan with plenty of boiling water, adding salt, and a small piece of soda ; cover the pan till boiling, but not afterward ; then boil quickly, and carefully remove any scum which may rise. Do not allow them to remain in the water after they are done, but immediately drain them in a colander, and finish each kind, as directed in recipes. Peas and spinach do not re- quire so much water as most other green vegetables, but only just suf- ficient to cover them. Cauliflowers and brocoli require especial care in boiling, as the flower is easily broken and their appearance spoiled; boil them quickly for a few minutes, and then moderately till tender, which may be easily ascertained by trying the stem with a fork. All vessels used in cooking vegetables should be particularly clean. Soft is preferable to hard water in cooking all kinds of vegetables. Pota- toes are in universal use, and yet how few know how to cook them well ! “ A well-boiled potato is a thing purely ideal—it has never come out of the pot, in the experience of living man.” This is too strong; but there is very much room for, and need of, improvement in the science of cooking a potato. To do it ^cell, the matter must be studied, and not performed by routine. They differ very much, even those grown in the same field and from the same seed. A good potato, well cooked and served up, is a luxury, which, unfortunately, few people know how to accomplish, or Avill not give themselves the trouble to do. Potatoes.—Those grown on virgin soil, of a middle size, and floury, are to be preferred. They should be as nearly as possible of 0) ie size, well washed, but not pared. They should be put into a ves- sel of cold water for an hour, then ]>ut into fresh ivater, and boiled in a kettle or saucepan, closely covered, in the most expeditious manner ])ossible ; or they should be steamed, which Avould be still better. If 1) oiled, no more water should be used than merely to cover them, as they produce a considerable quantity of fluid. When they are done, the water should be instantly poured off, and the kettle containing the cooked ])otatoes be ]>laced on the side of the fire with a cover on, and ai cloth over them, until the steam is absorbed, and rendered quite dry and mealy before they are sent to the table. Baked Potatoes.—Have a hot baking oven, select and wash pota- toes of uniform size, and put them moist into a clean oven. Do not