PRACTICAL DIETETICS. 188 ears to his pump till lie would promise to do better. Adulterated milk kills cliildreu by inches. NOTIONAL PEOPLE. Do you think it well for people to be notional and squeamish about their food ? Ans.—No. It is well to be wise in the choice of food, but not no- tional. It is generally best to train the appetite to take what is con- venient. providing it is wholesome. Custom will make it pleasant to you. This rule will perhaps have exceptions, as when there are idio- syncrasies. VALUE OF DIFFERENT PARTS OF MEAT. Why is there so much difference in the nutritive value of the flesh of animals in different parts of the body ? Ans.—Flesh is composed of numerous bundles of minute tubes ad- hering together in a mass. These tubes are filled with the juices of the flesh. Now the quality of the flesh depends much on the juices, while the tenderness or toughness depends largely on these tubes, and these vary with the age and condition of the animal. In old or ill-fed animals the tubes are more than the juices, and the meat is tough. In young animals it is the reverse. There is more nutriment in the flesh of animals not too young or too old, and neither too fat nor too lean. SALTED vs. FRESH MEAT. Why is not salted meat as wholesome as fresh ? Ans.—1. Salt extracts a considerable portion of the juices of flesh. It also hardens it. 2. The flavor is far inferior. 3. It carries far too much salt into the system. Much of the im- paired health farmers have in spring comes from this source. This excess of salt with the meat begets thirst, loss of appetite, impaired digestion and skin disease. It would be far better for them to eat no meat in winter, but substitute oatmeal, molasses, cream and fruit for salted flesh, than to eat so much of the latter. With this diet they would rarely have the debility in spring now so common. EXTRACT OF MEAT. Is Liebig’s extract of meat as good as is claimed by the manufac- turers ? Ans. No, not half nor a quarter so good. To make, for instance, one pound of this extract requires thirty pounds of flesh, but is all the nutriment of the flesh condensed to this amount ? By no means, but only the juices of the flesh and those parts soluble and the least nutri- tious. For very feeble persons, who can take but little food, it may be useful; but as a staff for the sick generally, who need good nour- ishment, it is a broken reed.