57 TIECIPES. Boston Brown Bread.—Take three pints of Indian meal, sifted, ,jd one quart of rye meal, sifted. Stir into the corn meal one tea- spoonful of salt and one teacnpful of molasses, and wet it to a batter, as thick as that used for griddle cakes, with boiling water ; then set it aside to cool. Stir one large coffeecupful of sour milk, or buttermilk, into the rye meal, add to it one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in two tablesiioonsful of boiling water, and boil on the stove for two minutes, or until it is in a light froth. Mix together the corn and rye meal batter with the hand, beating it well. Let it stand for fifteen minutes, then turn into an iron bake kettle, and bake for three or four hours. This will make a large loaf of bread, but it is better to bake it all in one pan, as a very thick, hard crust forms over the whole, and if one likes, it can be partly removed while hot, and eaten with milk or cream, for it makes a very palatable dish for breakfast or supper. We prefer to hake brown bread, however, by steaming it in a large tin pudding dish for three hours, placing the tin in a kettle of boiling water, and not letting it boil over the top of it. Then it is put into the oven for another hour; and this way of cooking it will form no crust that is not easily eaten, and gives the bread a delicious flavor, and it will remain moist for several days. When it is two or three days old it is much improved by being warmed in the oven or toasted. Apple Bread.—Weigh one pound of fresh, juicy apples, peel, core and stew them to a pulp, being careful to use a porcelain kettle or a stone jar, placed inside an ordinary saucepan of boiling water; other- wise the fruit will become discolored ; mix the pulp with two pounds of the best flour; put in the same quantity of yeast you would use for common bread, and as much water as will make it a fine, smooth dough ; put into an iron pan and place it into a warm place to rise, and let it remain for twelve hours, at least. Form it into rather long-shaped loaves, and bake in a quick oven. Fruit Corn Cakes.—Put a pint of whortleberries in a bowl, add a teacupful of sugar, one pint of corn meal and a large tablespoonful of fine flour, wet with boiling water. Bake in cakes about one-half an inch thick on a griddle or in an oven twenty minutes. For nice apple cakes use sweet and tart apples, chopped, instead of berries. Oat Meal or Scotch Puffs.—One quart of sweet milk, three well- beaten eggs, two and a half cups of oat meal, one and a half cups of Graham flour, and a little salt. Use a medium-sized cup. Heat and oil the gem irons and bake in a quick oven. Graham Flour Puffs.—One quart of sweet milk, two eggs, flour to make a thin batter, fill the gem cups two-thirds full, bake in a quick oven. Eice Griddle Cakes.—Cook half a teacupful of whole rice till every grain is dissolved and like jelly. Warm half a pint of rich milk, put in half a teaspoonful of salt, stir the rice into the milk till it Is smoothly mixed. Bent three eggs, whites and yolks separately, till very light, and put into the rice and milk the last thing. Bake jn a hot greased griddle till brown and light.