COCOA AXD CHOCOLATE. 110 disordering- the heart’s action, shattering the nerves, and ruining the health and happiness of the victim. In few words, without holding that the use of tea is as bad as the use of alcoholic liquors, one may well believe that the total abstinence reformers have, in their re4-hot zeal against rum, encouraged an indulgence in tea-drinking which will one day have to be fought against with might and main, to prevent the wholesale ruin of multitudes. A tea-drunkard may be defined as one who drinks strong tea several times a day, who depends on it instead of food and rest for sti’ength, and who cannot go without it without bringing on distressing symptoms. COFFEE. The active principal of coffee is hundred parts of raw coffee shows Caffeine 1.00 Casein 13.00 Gum and sugar 55.05 Fat 13.00 called caffeine. An analysis of one the following to be its composition : Mineral matter 6.07 Acids 5.00 Wood fiber 34.00 Water 12.00 Caffeine is analogous to theine in composition and effects. Coffee produces effects very similar to tea, and the same general rules are applicable for its use. It, like tea, powerfully affects the respiration, increasing the quantity of carbonic acid expired and air inspired. Coffee differs from tea in its effects by increasing the rate of respiration and not its depth, in increasing the rate of pulsation, and in diminishing the action of the skin. Those who suffer with dry skin, or palpitation of the heart, or heart disease, are particularly liable to harm from the continued use of coffee in large quantities. It is more suited to the wants of the poor and debilitated than tea, and is more appropriate for the breakfast meal than afterwards. COCOA AND CHOCOLATE Cocoa and chocolate have, for their active principle, the obromine, a substance very similar to caffeine and theine. The formula for theo- bromine is C.'' IF. N‘‘. O'-^. The analysis of the cacao bean gives in 100 parts : Theobromine 0.56 Cacao 6.61 Cacao butter 36 97 Gluten 3.20 Starch 0.55 Gum.... 0.69 Extractive matter 4.14 Humic acid 7.25 Woody Matter 80.00 Salts .... 3.00 Water 6.01 Dr. Edward Smith, to whose work we are largely indebted for our knowledge of tea, coffee, and cocoa, says of the latter substance : “ Its action is less exciting to the nervous system than tea or coffee, and at the same time it contains a much larger portion of nutritive material. Boiled in milk, it may produce a most agreeable and nutritious food, and for very many persons is greatly to be preferred to tea or coffee.”