PEACnCAL DIETETICS. 137 6, “ And the swine, though he divide the hoof and he cloven-footed, yet he cheweth not the cud ; he is unclean to you. Of their flesh shall ye not eat, and their carcass shall ye not touch.”—Leviticus xi. 7 and 8. “ And the a#vflne, because it divideth the hoof yet cheweth not the cud, it is unclean unto you. Ye shall not eat of their flesh, nor touch their dead carcass.”—Deut. xiv. 8. “ I have spread out my hands all the day to a rebellious people which worketh in a way that is not good, after their own thoughts, which remain among the graves and lodge in the mountains, which eat swine’s flesh, and broth of abominable things is in their vessels.” —Isaiah Ixv. 2 and 4. “ They that sanctify themselves, etc., eating swine’s flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse, shall be consumed together, saith the Lord.’'—Isaiah 17. EGGS SOFT OR HARD BOILED. I have two friends who sit near me at table, and they often dispute' about eggs, one says soft boiled eggs are most wholesome, and tho other says hard boiled eggs are the healthiest. Please tell us if hard boiled eggs are ever healthy. Ans.—Hard boiled eggs have always been considered more difficult of digestion than soft boiled ones. The reason is this : the white of an egg is almost pure albumen. Now albumen coagulates with heat, and is not so readily acted on by the gastric juice ; so that much of it passes from the stomach undigested. Persons with vigorous diges- tion may manage a hard-boiled egg so as to extract most of the nourishment from it, if it be well masticated and mixed with other food. The yolk of the egg, however, is not rendered worse by hard boiling. Eggs boiled just four minutes leave the white part in a partly flocculent condition, more easily digested, and not so soft as to be offensive to any one. An egg may be cooked in water at a tem- perature of about 165° P. for fifteen minutes and leave the yolk well cooked, but the white will not be rendered tough and hard to digest. Though more troublesome, this is a good way to cook an egg to render it easy of digestion as well as palatable. Persons whose palates will not tolerate a soft-boiled egg should have them poached and dropped on toast. WINE FOR CHILDREN. Do you think a weakly child would be injured by a glass or two of wine after dinner? Ans.—The child’s blood must not bo inflamed by such means, If ardent spirits are used by any it should be by the aged, and not by the young. ADULTERATED MILK. Do you think it morally wrong to adulterate milk; nearly every milkman does it, and an honest one can hardly live ? Ans.—Wo should like to see every dishonest milkman nailed by the