KECIPES. 88 and a lialf by one and a half inches ; eight of these unite in making one pan ; there are also some pans made of tin, but as the cast iron pan retains the heat longer it is the best. “ If the dough is ready and the oven heated, then put some of the pans in the oven and allow them to become quite hot; take one out, grease it with a clean rag dipped in butter, and drop the dough in the pan with a large spoon ; return the pan quickly to the oven. If the j)an is too hot, so that when greased the butter is burned, allow it to cool before using it, as the gems will be apt to stick to the pan and be burned. After eight or ten minutes they must be looked after, and if they are getting too brown must be put in a cooler place and allowed to bake for another ten or fifteen minutes more. They ought not to be taken out before they are thoi’oughly baked, as they will become wet and doughy if taken out too soon, and no amount of after baking can undo this. They may be eaten hot with impunity, a quality not possessed by any other form of bread. “L. F. J. Anger.” [We can testify from personal knowledge that Mr. Anger’s gems are unsurpassed in delicacy and perfection by any we have ever tasted.—Ed.] Rusk.— Beat three eggs thoroughly, then beat in a cupful of sugar, and a little flavoring to the taste of lemon or nutmeg. Add a tumbler and a-half of rich cream which has first been mixed with a little flour ; use no more flour than will give it consistency enough to be molded. Let it rise all night or all day, and when very light put it upon tins to rise again before baking. Bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Tomato Custard.—This is said to be a beneficial diet for consump- tives. It is made by straining finely stewed tomatoes throitgh a coarse sieve, and adding two pints of milk which has been scalded and cooled, and one pint of tomatoes, for four eggs, and one teaspoonful of sugar. Bake in small cups quickly. Cooking Raisins.—It is well to cook before putting them into pies, cakes, or puddings. Soaking is not sufficient. Steaming them by pouring a small quantity of boiling water among them in a tightly closing dish, and allowing them plenty of time to cook before opening, is a good plan. When raisins are rightly cooked before using, they are plumper and more palatable, and can be eaten without injury by most dyspeptics. Tojiato Pie.—Peel and slice ripe tomatoes and lay them on dishes as for apple pie. Sprinkle on a little flour ; and sugar to suit the taste. Bake with two crusts, in a moderate oven. This as well as green apple pie can be made with one crust only, by stewing the to- matoes or apples before putting into pies. Barley Pudding.—Prepare a half pound of pearl barley, one quart of new milk, and six ounces of sugar. Put the barley in fresh water, and let it steep twelve hours ; pour the water from it, add the milk, sugar, and a small salt-spoonful of salt, and bake it in a slow oven. If a richer pudding be required, take it out of the oven when