PKAOTIOAL DIETETICS AOT) ANSWERS TO EVER-RECURRING QUESTIONS. FOOD FOR DIFFERENT SEASONS OF THE YEAR. What changes should he made in our food at different seasons of the year ? Ans.—Our food should vary with the season of the year. As winter gradually gives way to spring, our health, comfort, and ha^ipiness are greatly augmented by diminishing the quantity of our heat and force producing foods, and substituting in their place, to a considerable ex- tent, green vegetables and early mild acid fruits. Even before early vegetables and fruits can be had, canned fruits and vegetables should take the place of the rich foods required in winter. Many people think they must be “physicked out” in the spring,but this is a vile practice wholly unnecessary. Good brown bread, milk, cream, fruits, and oatmeal as the staple articles of spring diet, with no salted meats, and little or no meat of any kind, will keep the bowels in perfectly healthy condition at this season of the year ; whereas if ham and eggs, hot bread, superfine hot biscuits, stale potatoes, are the principal arti- cles of diet, there is no end to the suffering that may be entailed ; then as summer comes on, early fruits and vegetables should be still more largely partaken of. Strawberries should be used in abundance all through June—raspberries, blackberries, and cherries in July. In August apples, and soon after tomatoes, peaches, grapes, melons, etc., make up a list of fruits rich in fluids, opening, cooling, appetizing, de- licious, health-giving; these with good brown bread, and gems with milk cream, oatmeal and fresh butter should, to a great extent, take the place of fats and highly carbonized foods and meats. In very hot weather the fats should be almost discontinued. One will suffer less from the heat if this is done. Then as cool weather comes on, if neces- sary, there may be a gradual return to a more highly carbonized diet, and during winter it may be partaken of quite freely, especially in cold latitudes, and when much work is to be done. Much sickness will be prevented by proper attention to the subject of wisely adapting our food to the season of the year and climate.