62 RECIPES. and bake twenty minutes. Eat warm. It will be as light and tender as the best “ Johnny cake,” or else you have wet it too much or baked it too long. This is one of the most accommodating baked dishes that can be made. It will do very nicely with a little longer time if the oven is not quite hot. If it will not bake there at all, pour it into a frying pan, cover it close and set it on the top of the stove, where it will even bake in fifteen minutes. For a hurried breakfast and a slow coal fire it is invaluable. Scarcely any wholesome thing in the whole bread line can be prepared more readily. It can be made still thinner and baked quicker. It is good either crisp or moist. For emergencies alone every housekeeper will find it convenient to be able to make the breakfast cake. Many use oat meal mixed with buckwheat, wheat or corn, for griddle cakes. For this use 1 prefer it cooked first. Take, say one-half pint of the porridge or the mush, diffuse it in one quart of water, and add the wheat meal, sifting it in and stirring slowly. Oat Meal, Cake.—Take one pint of oatmeal, and just warm water enough to stir up a batter like griddle cakes. Pour it into a shallow baking pan, and bake for twenty minutes in a hot oven. Or, if pref- erable, bake it in small cak'es on the griddle, first putting in a hand- ful of wheat fiour and a little more water. The cold porridge will also make delicious griddle cakes. Cream Toast.—Boil a pint and a half of cream or new milk and thicken with a tablespoonful of fiour or corn starch, add a little salt. Toast slices of stale bread quickly, of an even brown on both sides, lay them in the toast dish and dip over them a plentiful supply of the hot thickened cream ; add another layer of toast and then more cream. Another Wat.—Cut smooth slices of stale bread less than half an inch thick, toast a delicate brown, put the plate into the oven and heat it quite warm, lay the toast into the plate and pour over it cold, sweet cream, and the toast is ready to be eaten. For invalids and children with dainty appetites, this is very nice and easily digested. Some light fruit jelly will add to the relish and still be wholesome. Norwegian Oat MEAii Porridge.—Take two or three handfuls of meal, mixed, coarse and fine, in proportion of one-third latter to two of the former. Mix in a basin of cold water and pour into a pan con- taining about a quart of boiling water, adding a small portion of salt. Set on the fire, and keep stirring, adding from time to time small doses of meal until it boils and has acquired a proper consistency; which may be known by its glutinous state, as it drops from the spoon. Let it simmer ten minutes, then pour into common dinner plates. Spoon out portions and float in new milk, adding sugar to taste. Oat Meal Cracknels.—Take the finest quality of oatmeal, and stir in barley water enough to wet it through ; let it stand twenty minutes to swell, then roll it out to a quarter of an inch in thickness, first flouring the board and rolling pin with wheat flour. Cut it with a biscuit cutter and bake in a moderately hot oven, as these cakes