55 RECIPES. if you wish a quick rising. As soon as the dough begins to crack open mould into small rolls and put close together in the baking-pan. When sufficiently light bake in a moderate oven half an hour. Graham Muffins.—Dissolve a half cake of yeast in a little warm water, scald a quart of milk and pour it into two quarts of Graham flour, stir well, and let it cool sufficiently, then put in the yeast and a spoonful of brown sugar, make a very thick batter, which will heap on the spoon ; set to rise over night. In the morning have a good hot oven, butter your rings and the pan well with cold butter. All the rings two-thirds full, let them stand a few minutes in a warm place, then put into the brisk oven and bake half an hour. Bread Mub’fins.—Take four slices of baker's bread, and cut off the crust. Lay them in a pan, and pour boiling water over them, only just sufficient to soak them well. Cover the vessel with a cloth, and when it has stood an hour draw oft’ the water, and stir the soaked bi-ead till the mass is quite smooth, then mix in two tablespoonsful of sifted flour and half a pint of milk, and stir in, gradually, two well- beaten eggs. Butter some muffin rings, set them in a buttered bake- pan, and fill each two-thirds full. Bake brown, and send to the table hot. BuCKWnE.\.T Cakes.—One quart of buckwheat flour and a half a pint of Graham meal. Mix with lukewarm water into a batter, stir in a teacupful of goo<l yeast sponge or a half cent’s worth of baker’s yeast; mix in an earthen or stone vessel, and set over night in a warm place to rise. If the temperature and yeast have been j ust right, the batter will be light and sweet, and not need soda. It should be con- sidered a mistake when the ferment needs neutralizing, and care taken to set cooler or correct the yeast. Buckwheat Gravy.—Buckwheat cakes are often considered rather an unwholesome dish ; but we think that the fault comes from the excess of melted butter and syrup, Avdiich is usually eaten witli tliem. Substitute this, at least for the children :—Boil a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, put in half a teaspoonfiil of salt and two or three largo spoonsful of buckwheat hatter, dip a spoonful and put directly into the boiling milk, wait for it to boil up, and then add another till you get a proper consistency, boil a minute longer, and pour into a tureen or pitcher for the table. Gravies—May always take the place of butter and syrup when griddle cakes are to be eaten, simply by boiling a pint of milk or cream and adding a spoonful or two of the batter of which the cakes are made as a thickening, a little salt and a very little lump of butter may be added. Children are far better satisfied with a creamy gravy than with butter. Hygienic Breakfast Cakes.—One pint of fresh oatmeal, one quart water, let it stand over night. In the morning add one teaspoonful of fine salt, one tablespoonful of sugar, and the same of baking powder, and one pint of Graham flour. If the above proportions make a batter