RECIPES. 63 will burn quickly, and only require to be of tbe slightest brown. They will snap easily between the fingers, and are delicious, requir- ing no butter to make them palatable. If put into a close jar they will keep for several months. In the Highlands of Scotland they preserv^e their cracknels, or bannocks, as they call them, in the barrels of oatmeal for a year or so. Another way to'make cracknels, is to mix oatmeal to a stifi batter with cold water, and let it stand several hours. Or mix with sweet milk and let it stand until it swells (do not let it sour), then pour it into bake pans and bake twenty minutes. They should be one- fourth of an inch thick and a light brown color when done. 0.\T Meal and Cocoanlt Cracknels,—Oatmeal mixed with grated cocoanut produces a very attractive • cake to both old and young. Take three heaping tablespoonfuls of grated cocoanut, or two of the prejiared “dessicated” cocoanut; add to it half a pint of the finest oatmeal and two heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar; stir it into one gill of boiling water, and mix it thoroughly together; turn out on the rolling board, well floured, and roll it as thin and cut out as for common cracknels, put a bit of citron and half a dozen currants into each cake, sticking them into the dough. Bake in a slow oven and watch carefully lest they brown a shade too deep. To make them crispy let them stand a day in an uncovered dish. A very palatable pie crust can be made from the dough of oatmeal cracknels by wetting it a little thinner; or in preparing it, add just half the measure of meal in hot water. Add no butter or lard, sim- ply a little salt; roll out thin, and make the pie of cooked fruits, as this kind of paste bakes very quickly, and if the fruit requires cook- ing it would become too hard and brown. Most persons who eschew all kinds of pies can eat those made of oatmeal without fear or trembling, and tliey will soon learn to consider oatmeal an invalu- able addition to their tables. Onion Toast.—Boil some onions of moderate size ; change the water twice in boiling ; salt in the last water. When nicely done take out with a skimmer. Make a gravy such as you make for cream toast. Toast slices of bread, lay them in a dish, put the onions on the slices, one on a slice, and pour the gravy over both. Note.—The onions will cook in half the time if you cut them into three or four slices before you put them into the water. Egg To.vst.—Break the eggs carefully into water boiling hot, but not really boiling. Let them simmer till they are delicately cooked or till the yolks are covered with a white film, then take up with a skim- mer and lay on slices of buttered or cream toast. Salt the water in which the eggs are boiled, and see that it covers the eggs. Butter and pepper may be added on the table. TO COOK EGGS. Boiled Eggs.—Boil three minutes by the watch, and you have the central or yellow part soft boiled, while the white is hard, unpalatable, and difficult of digestion.