51 RECirES. Sago Porridge.—Four tablespoonsful of sago, one salt-spoonfuls of salt, and one quart of water. Soak the sago in cold water for a few minutes, and boil it gently about an hour, adding the salt; pour it into soup-plates, and serve with molasses or sugar. Sago akd Rice Porridge.—Equal quantities of sago and ground rice. Proceed as with sago porridge. Milk Porridge.—Take of new milk a pint and a half, and half a pint of water ; place it over the fire. When just ready to boil, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, wheat-meal, oat-meal, or Indian corn-meal, pre- viously mixed with a little water; after boiling a minute pour it on bread cut into small pieces. As milk burns quicker than almost any other article of food, it is always best to put it into a tin pail or fa- rina kettle, which is or can be surrounded by boiling water while heat- ing, then you are sure of not burning it. Arrowroot Gruel.—Take one ounce of arroAvroot, and two large tablespoonsful of preserved black currants. Put the currants into a pan with a quart of Avater; coA^er the pan and let them stew gently about half an hour ; then strain the liquid and set it on the fire; Avhen boiling pour it gradually upon the arroAvroot, previously mixed Avith a little cold water, stirring it well; return it into the. pan and let it boil for a fcAV minutes gently, adding sugar if required. Sago Gruel.—Take two tablespoonsful of sago and one quart of water. Wash and soak the sago a few minutes in cold water; stir it into the rest of the Avater Avhen boiling; boil sloAvly till the sago is well done, and add sugar and nutmeg as required. Tapioca Gruel.—Wash a tablespoonful of tapioca and soak it in a pint and a half of Avater tAventy minutes; then boil gently, stirring frequently, till it is sufficiently cooked, and SAveeten. Groat Gruel.—Pick the groats very clean and steep them in water for several hours; then boil them in soft Avater till quite tender and thick, and add boiling Av^ater sufficient to reduce the Avhole to the con- sistency of gruel, also currants, sugar, and grated nutmeg. Groats are made of oats’ grain, the hulls being removed and the grain left quite Avhole, as are all preparations of this grain. This gruel is very nutri- tious. REMARKS AND RULES FOR GOOD BREAD. W*ith good flour, a good oven, and a good, sensible, interested cook, Ave can be pretty sure of good, Avholesome bread. Yeast bread is con- sidered the standard bread, and is, perhaps, more generally found on every table than any other kind. Hence it is important to knoAV hoAV to make good, sweet, Avholesome, yeast bread. Good flour is the first indispensable, then good, lively yeast, either yeast cakes or bottled, tlie former is preferable in all resy>ects. Then, of course, there must be the proper materials to Avork Avith. A bread boAvl or pan—the pan IS easiest kept clean—a stone or earthen jar for setting the sponge; a sieve—flour should always be sifted before making bread of any kind,