113 TEA. but mixed with milk it forms a very agreeable, even delicious drink, and for persons thin in flesh and run down in health it may often servo important uses, especially if it agrees with the stomach. Pure cream contains. Water 66.00 parts Sugar 2.8 parts Nitrogenous 2.7 “ Fat 26.7 “ A mixture of cream and milk and oatmeal forms a very nourishing diet for consumptives, and those with little animal heat, also for those who use little or no animal food. Buttermilk.—This liquid food is not much used by Americans, but the Germans regard it with great favor. It contains about as much nourishment as skim milk. It is poor in heat-giving qualities, but there is considerable nitrogenous matter in it. Here is the analysis : Water 88.0 Nitrogenous 4.1 Salts 6.8 Sugar. Fat. .. .3.6 .0.7 It also contains lactic acid, which is believed to favor digestion. In some forms of disease a buttermilk diet is found to be serviceable. It is better adapted to the fat than the lean, and to those who have a superabundance of animal heat than to those who suffer with cold feet and hands and languid circulation. TEA. So much has been written on the use of tea, pro and con, that little new can be said. Nevertheless tliere are some points concern- ing this question not yet well understood. They are as follows : 1. Tea is not nutritious. The milk and sugar put into the cup to give it flavor has a real value as a food. 2. Nearly all teas, whatever their price or name, are about of equal value so far as their physiological effects are concerned. The higher priced sorts have, however, a much more delicate flavor, and for this reason will always be preferred. 3. That tea should, when used, be weighed rather than measured, as some kinds weigh more to the teaspoonful than others. Oolong, for instance, weighs 40 grains to the teaspoonful. Congou weighs 87, and gunpowder tea weighs 125 grains to the teaspoonful. Then, too, the effects of tea are not well understood. 1. Tea increases the amount of carbonic acid expired from the lungs. 2. It increases the volume of air inspired, but not the rapidity of respiration, consequently it must increase the depth of inflation of the lungs. 3. Tea tends to induce perspiration, especially if taken hot. 4. Tea excites to increased action the muscular system. 5. Tea powerfully excites the nervous system. The points last enumerated accord with the experience of a ma- jority of tea-drinkers, and if the subject were dropped here, the im- pression would be very favorable to the use of this beverage. There is, however, another side to be considered. It has been found that