87 RECIPES. good healtli ever since. She sent this recipe witli a loaf of delicious brown bread to Mrs. Everett during her course of lectures at Perth. Amboy, N. J. We regret that we are not permitted to give the lady’s name :—“ We make our own yeast from hops of our own raising. The vine makes a delightful shade for the south end of our back porch, and from that vine we gather, the last of August, hops enough for our own use during the year, and also for some of our friends. To three pints of water put a handful of hops, and boil tliem half an hour; put into your yeast pot or jar six tablespoon fills of flour and one teaspoon- ful of salt; set your jar near the kettle, and dip the hoii tea into the jar through a sieve or colander. When you have strained enougdi to wet all the flour, stir it well, and then strain upon it the rest of the hop water. The mixture should be about the consistency of batter for griddle cakes. When it is cool., not cold, stir in a gill of good yeast; set it in a warm place ; do not cover it close. When fermented, put it in a cool place, and cover close. This is the yeast from which we set our white bread at evening. The next morning we take a good handful of the dough; put it in a large yellow bowl, and add a tea- si)Oonful of salt, a half cup of molasses, a pint of lukewarm water, and enough Graham flour, making a dough softer than for white bread ; set it to rise and bake. We do not knead this bread. This makes two loaves. Brown bread is not improved by sugar.” Anger’s Method op Making Gems.—“ To the Editor.—By your special request I will here state my experience in regard to the method of making the Graham gems. The flour is the principal ingredient, and on it depends chiefly the success of the baker ; it must necessarily be of the very best kind, made of the best winter wheat, and be pos- sessed of the qualities commonly known as “ dry and strong.” The treatment varies according to the qualities of the flour. If the flour is of the kind -described above, the dough can be baked immediately ; but if the flour be moist the dough must be allowed to stand in a warm place for at least four hours, in order to obtain a palatable article. The German hygienists allow the dough for their unleavened bread to stand six hours, in every case ; this is, however, unnecessary, provided the flour is of good quality. The next in order is a good baking oven, one that is capable of baking equally as well from the top as from the bottom; it is difficult to state the exact amount of heating required, as some ovens are more easily heated than others ; suffice it to say that a quick oven is necessary, and that the glaring heat, Avhich always ac- companies a freshly-heated oven, be allowed to pass away before bak- ing the gems, as they are very apt to blister on the top, especially the water gems. In mixing the dough take blood-warm milk or water, adding the flour and beating thoroughly for at least five minutes. It is better to retain some of the milk or water one intends to use, making the dough slightly thicker, beat it well, and then add the remaining milk. By this method the dough becomes more thoroughly mixed, and is entirely freed of the small lumps that are so difficult to get rid of. If milk is used, make the dough thick enough, so that it can be spooned out comfortably ; but for water gems it must be made some- what thicker. “ The pans used in baking the gems are of oval shape, measuring two