147 PEACTICAL DIETETICS. tion. The dietetic reformers, in their zeal, have, some of them, over- shot the mark, but they meant well, and, while they have done much harm, have also done much good by calling attention to a neglected subject and to many abuses of diet. The good they have done will live after them; the harm will soon be forgotten. RYE BREAD. Is rye bread wholesome ? Ans.—Yes. It is a laxative, cures constipation, but sometimes the disease to which this grain is subject will render the whole population where it is used dangerously ill, and be productive of most afflicting diseases. This however, is a rare circumstance easily avoided. DIET FOR A FEEBLE CHILD. What diet would you prescribe for children from two to ten years of age, of strong mental temperameht and slender bodies ? I am anxious to know how I can best develop tlieir bodies. My boy of seven years of age takes a number seven hat and weighs but a little over thirty pounds. His general health is much better than it was one year ago. Is there any particular objection to Indian-meal bread or rye bread? I do not like to trouble you, but I am anxious to learn. We do not send him to school now, and keep him out of doors as much as possible in pleasant weather. Why I ask so particularly about corn- meal is this : a phrenologist that lectured here last spring said I ought not to give him corn bread because it is so heating. He is very fond of it. “ An Anxious Mother.” Ans.—Give your children plenty of the best brown bread and milk. Well made corn-meal bread, rye bread, and oatmeal wafers, are good. The phrenologist who objected to corn-meal bread did not know very much about it. Corn-meal pudding and good syrup or milk, will be excellent. Now and then an egg on toast will not come amiss. Chil- dren need abundance of wholesome food. If they cannot have it they will be dwarfed and stunted. Good fruit is appropriate. DIET FOR CONSUMPTIVES. What are the best foods for consumptives ? Ans.—Consumptives must see that their bodies are properly fed. They should not take food as a medicine, but as nourishment. They should have the very best things to eat that they can get, and, fortu- nately, the best things are not always the most expensive or difflcult to obtain. If it agrees, a cup of cream may very appropriately be taken every day by those who are inclined to consumption. Brown bread, and milk and cream, oatmeal and cream, eggs, with the moderate use of beef and mutton, good butter and mealy potatoes, will, of themselves, constitute a perfect diet. They should avoid nicknacks and lancy foods, and live on things substantial and nourishing. Fruits should be used in their season moderately. Consumption is a constitutional dis- ease showing poverty of blood and poverty of healthy tissue, and this .