89 rtECIPES. nearly done, stir in two ounces of butter, four well beaten eggs, a little flavoring, or any suitable seasoning ; return it to the oven in a buttered disli, and bake it one hour. Aspakagus and Toast.—Asparagus, the best of tbe greens. Wash, pin up in a cloth, and boil gently in a little pure water about twenty minutes. It goes well with samp and potatoes, without condiments, but some people will not be content without dressing. The least ob- jectionable dressing is the white sauce—milk thickened with wheat- meal and slightly salted. “ Asparagus toast” is made by cutting wheat- meal biscuit into thin slices, dipping in hot milk, spreading on a plat- ter, laying the boiled asparagus on it, and pouring over it the white sauce. “Asparagus peas” are prepared by just cutting into bits the tender part of the raw asparagus, boiling in just water enough to cover it until done, skimming out, dishing, and pouring over it the white sauce. Gravy for Children.—For a pint of gravy you want a large spoonful of flour, stirred smoothly into half a teacup of the cold milk. Let the milk be boiling when this is added, and kept constantly stir- ring, or the gravy will be lumpy. If cream is used instead of milk no butter is necessary. The milk should be stirred while coming to the boil to keep it from burning. It is less likely to burn if a little butter is melted in the spider before pouring in the milk. Add a little salt. For bread and potatoes it is better by far than meat gravy, and not only palatable and wholesome, but nutritious. Oat.meal Jelly.—A very delicate breakfast-dish can be made of “oatmeal jelly.” Soak half a pint of good oatmeal over night in one and a half i>int3 of water. In tlie morning drain off the water through a sieve, adding to it one and a half pints hot water, and put it to boil over a (juick fire. Stir till it boils, then set it back and let it simmer ten minutes. Turn it into molds, and in fifteen minutes it will be set sutliciently to turn out into saucers, and will be warm enough to eat. Serve at once, without trimming, or with a little milk or sweet- ened fruit-juice. The soaked meal that is left can be utilized in batter-biscuit, or corn-meal mush, or made into a porridge by itself. In the latter shape it is l^nd, and peculiarly suitable for invalids who have not yet learned to tike oatmeal. These preparations are in no way better than the whole oatmeal, excepting for variety. Tomato Soup.—To make one gallon, take three quarts of good beef stock ; one medium-sized carrot ; one medium-sized turnip ; one beet; one small onion. Peel and cut these up in small pieces ; then add three quarts of best fresh tomatoes, and boil for an hour. Strain through a sieve ; then put five ounces of butter in a saucer ; heat it to a light brown ; now, take it off the fire, and add, while hot, three table-spoonfuls of flour. Put in the boiled tomatoes, and season to your taste. Add one dessert-spoonful of sugar. Put it on the fire and stir it till it boils. Let it boil for five minutes, skimming it the while. It is now ready for the table. More sugar and flour can be added, if necessary. Use for Cold Musn.—A good way to use cold mush of any kind, either oatmeal, Graham, or Indian. After taking off the skin which