< ^ RECIPES. rvo Sweet Potatoes may be peeled, cut in tbin slices or strips, and fried, heating and buttering the skillet in the same way. They will not bear quite so hot a fire, nor take so long to cook. Use as little butter as possible. Fried food is not considered so wholesome as boiled or steamed, but is sometimes more convenient to ])repare. Eog Plant.—Pare and cut into slices, half an inch thick, two or three egg i^lants, according to tlie size of your family, and put to soak in cold salted water for two hours. This removes a black, bitter juice, said to be unhealthful, certainly very disagreeable. Then press the slices between two plates, and wipe them on a clean cloth, then boil till soft enough to mash like turnips. Mash them smooth, add a few bread crumbs soaked in sweet cream, a little chopped parsley and salt, and a sprinkle of cayenne. Mix all thoroughly, pour into a but- tered baking dish, cover the top with bread crumbs, and bake half an hour. Cauliflower.—Soak the head two hours in cold salted water, and boil till tender in plenty of water. Have the water boiling when you put in the flower. Pour off the water, and add a cup of cream or milk. Rub together a tea-spoonful of butter and a large spoonful of flour. Stir into the milk, season as you like, and let all boil up to- gether for five minutes and serve. Spinach.—Wash carefully in plenty of cold salt and water, put it into a saucepan that will j ust hold it, put in some salt, and pour over it a pint of boiling water. Cover close, and let it cook slowly twenty minutes. Drain off all the water, and pour over it a gill of scalded cream or a little butter, and it is ready for the table. PIES. Pies are wholesome or not as they are well or badly made. An apple pie can be so prepared as to be nearly or quite as simple as bread, l)utter, and apple sauce. A whole meal may be made of it with- out injury to the health. On the other hand, it may be so prepared as to bo unfit for the stomach of even a rhinoceros. The model pie is in our opinion the apple pie. Peach pies are liighly relished by many ; but the peach loses its finest flavor by cooking, whereas the apple is improved by this ]>rocess. Most of the berries in their season make good pies. So does rice and eggs, and the custard pie is not only deli cious but wholesome. Meat mince pies are not to be tolerated by deli- cate people ; though they may be eaten by men of strong digestion, who live much in the open air and do muscular work, d he first point to be secured in a pie is good crust. In general terms, this should be thin and, when well baked, tender. It should not be short- ened with lard, but the best of cream—or in the absence of this, good butter. Delicate fruits are soon tainted with the shortening of the crust. Many in baking pies, use too much crust. The less that can be used the better the pie will be. The crust should be thin, the fruit good pie-apples, and plenty of them, put bt^tween the crust. Where the two crusts meet on the edge of the dish, care should be taken to