KECTPES. 83 Drop Cakes.—Put six well-beaten eggs into a pint of thick cream add a little salt, and make it into a thick batter with flour. Bake it in rings or in small cups fifteen or twenty minutes. The same may be made with Graham flour. Delicious Corn Gem Cake.—One quart of cornmeal; two quarts of sweet milk ; two heaped teaspoonfuls of cream-yeast; two eggs. Bake in a quick oven. Strawberry Shortcake.—To a quart of flour (enough for two cakes) put three heaping spoonfuls of baking-powder (Taylor’s). Sift together thoroughly and rub in one ounce of butter. Wet with a pint of sweet milk, using a spoon. The mixture will be somewhat softer than common pie-crust. Do not try to mould or roll out the dough. Spread it on tin pie-plates by patting with the hand. It should be about an inch in thickness. Bake slowly at first till the cakes have had time to rise ; then increase the heat, and expect them to be done within twenty-five minutes. Split the cakes hot from the oven ; spread the halves with butter (liberally if good), and cover them with the fruit previously sweetened. Place one on the other (the upper half is reversed of course), or each on a plate by itself. It is a good rule to sugar your strawberries before you begin to make your cake, and if they are large, or not very ripe, it is best to cut them in two, or mash them a little. Don’t calculate for these cakes standing on the stove hearth a minute. They should be served like griddle-cakes—no time lost between the oven and the table. Observe these rules and you will have a dish as dainty as Izaak Walton’s Baked Fish, of which he said, “ It is too good for any but very honest people.” When straw- berries are gone, red raspberries (Clark’s or Philadelphia) are very nice in their place. White currants are also very much liked as a substi- tute, and peach shortcake is hardly surpassed by the strawberry itself, if the peaches are first-rate. All these fruits should be prepared by sweetening sn hour or two before wanted. Shakespeare Cake.—Six cups of flour; one of sugar ; one of rich cream; eight eggs. Orange Cake.—Two cups of sugar ; yolk of five eggs and white of four ; half a cup of water ; two cups of flour ; one teaspoonful of bak- ing-powder, juice and grated rind of one orange. Spread and bake on tin pie-plates. This quantity should cover six plates. Make a jelly by beating the white of One egg to a froth, and adding to it throe quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and the grated rind and juice of another orange. Spread the jelly on the cakes and lay one above another in three tiers. Silver Cake.—Two and a half cups of flour ; half a cup of butter; two cups of sugar; three-fourths of a cup of sweet milk; white of eight eggs ; two teaspooufuls of baking-powder. Gold Cake.—Two cups of flour; three-fourths of a cup of butter ; one cup of sugar ; one egg, and the yolk of eight eggs ; two spoonfuls of bakiug-j)owder.