RECIPES. 54 li%tle stiffer. The precise consistency cannot be guessed always, as some wheat M^orks softer than others. The sweetening can be left out with propriety. Indeed, we never could see why Graham flour should be sweetened at all, as it has all the sugar of the grain left in, while flne flour has had the sugar taken out by the process of bolting. Bread avitii Potatoes.—Potatoes assist fermentation, and render the lough lighter and more tender when we wish to make bread in haste. Peel and boil, or steam, a quart of potatoes, mash them very fine, or, what is better, press them through a colander while they are hot, add half a pint of water and a salt-spoonful of salt, stir them into a batter, and then put in a yeast cake previously softened, or a teacup- ful of lively yeast, and make into a dough with two quarts of sifted flour. Knead it half an hour, put plenty of flour on your board, and knead it until it cleaves from the board with a light tearing sound. Be careful not to let your dough grow very cold while you work it. Divide into loaves, and set to rise in a warm place. Watch the pro- cess, and when the loaves are quite light have your oven in good heat and bake three quarters of an hour. This bread is very nice if well made, i. e., the potatoes made very flne and kept hot, and perhaps the flour warmed also; but it is not so good when stale as that made with a scalded sponge. Delicious Biscuit.—Made in the same manner, only adding half a pint of sour cream instead of the water. Bring the cream to a scald- ing heat, and put in a teaspoonful of soda; mix otherwise the same. Set to rise in the bowl, and, when light, make into small cakes. Put them close in the pan, and let them rise upward within an inch of the top of the pan and bake. Buttermilk Bread.—Put three or four pints of fresh buttermilk into a saucepan and boil it. Stir it pretty constantly while it is heat- ing, to keep it from separating into whey and curd. Have a quart of flour sifted into a suitable vessel, pour the boiling buttermilk on the flour, and scald it thoroughly. Stir until all the flour is mixed, and set to cool. When sufficiently cool add a teacupful of good yeast, and let it rise over night; in the morning sift and mix into the sponge enough flour to make a stijf dough ; knead well, and set to rise for two hours, then divide into loaves and knead slightly. At this time use as little flour as possible. Set to rise again, and bake as soon as light enough. Bake in a steady oven three quarters of an hour. This is a good sponge for dark, or runny flour. The bread will be white and moist. Graham flour, prepared with scalded buttermilk, mixed a little stiffer than where sweet milk or water is used, is very sweet and good. Do not put soda into the milk or sponge. It will be perfectly sweet when it is baked if the yeast is fresh, and if the whole process is carefully attended to in the right time. Sweet Potato Buns.—Boil, and then mash three good-sized sweet potatoes with a pint of cream or new milk ; mix with as much flour as will make a dough as for bread, adding a teacupful of good sponge or yeast. Knead well, and set to rise. Always wrap your blanket close around the bowl, and place where the Avincl or cold air does not come,