RECIPES. G9 make a fine mass of tlie whole; Take a pint of milk or cream, bring it to a boil, and put the corn in and boil slowly in a closed porcelain or tin vessel for fifteen or twenty minutes with a very little salt; or, which is better, steam it for half an hour. It will then be very rich and savory. Succotash.—For succotash, Lima beans are the best ; the Agricul- tural stand second on the list. But any good variety of bush beans, which come earlier than these, makes an article by no means inferior. Shell the green beans, and boil them slowly in an abundance of water for one or two hours, being careful to keep them covered with water while boiling. Cut well-grown corn from the cob, as in the previous directions ; place it in a pan or basin to steam, over the beans—if not provided with suitable steam apparatus. Add a little water to the corn, and stir it occasionally. Steam from twenty to thirty minutes, then add the corn to the beans, and simmer for half an hour. Stir often, and watch carefully that it does not burn. Season to suit the taste. Dried Sweet Corn.—Wash the quantity you wish to cook. Add two or three times as much water, and soak over night. In the morn- ing place on the range or stove in a closed tin or porcelain vessel, where it will keep at the scalding point for four or five hours. Do not let it boil a moment. Be equally careful to keep it hot. Add water, if necessary, but do not make it too thick. Season as you like with salt. Winter Succotash.—Take equal quantities of dried sweet corn and of dried green beans. Wash and soak them separately, over night, in warm water. Add more water, if necessary, in the morning. Boil the beans slowly for four or five hours, adding boiling water oc- casionally. Cook the corn as you would without the beans. Then add the corn to the beans, and cook slowly, only long enough to com- bine them well. This is an excellent article of food, if carefully pre- pared, although not equal to succotash in the summer. Season with cream and salt. To Bake Beans.—Prepare them as for stewing, and place them with a large quantity of water in a stone-ware pot in a hot oven. Let the oven cool somewhat after they begin to cook, and bake them from four to six hours rather slowly. Leave out meat and butter, and trim with cream and salt. Dried Green Peas.—Wash the peas, pour boiling soft water over them, sufficient to cover. Let them stand over night. Stew them for several hours, or until they are soft and pulpy. Add boiling water occasionally, and keeji them covered closely while cooking. Add half a cup of cream and a little salt, and boil ten minutes ; then dish up. Stewed Carrots.—One pound and a half of carrots ; one ounce of butter; quarter of an ounce of parsley ; one teaspoonful of Hour, and four tablespoonfuls of cream. About half-boil the carrots, then scrape and slice them; put them into a pan with half a teacupful of vege- table broth, or water; let them simmer till ^uite tender, but not