MILK. no Whole Age. Milk. Wateh. Quantity, Qills, Gills, Gills, 2J to 3 months ^ .... 7^ .... 3 to 3i months 5 .... m 3^ to 4 months 5 .... 13 4 to 4^ months 6 .... 13^ to 5 months 6K... 14 5 to 6 months 7 .... 7 .... 14 G to 7 months 7 .... 7 .... 7 to 8 months 8 .... 6 .... 14 8 to 9 months , .... 6 .... 14i 9 to 10 months .... 6 .... 14i 10 to 11 months 8i .... .... 14i 11 to 13 months 9 .... .... 14^ Eight large spoonfuls are about a gill. llEGULATIONS OF THE QUALITY OP THE MiLK.—If the milk he too strong, indigestion will follow, and the child will lose instead of gain- ing strength. When particles of casein, or curd, pass through his bowels unaltered, a milder quality or lower grade should he substitu- ted. A feeble child of six months may require the food suited to a vigorous child of six months. For constipation, increase the richness of the milk, put in more cream. In cold weather, or if milk is kept on ice, it may stand an hour or two longer before the upper third is • removed ; or the upper fourth maybe taken; or set five quarts instead of three to get one quart. The water used in diluting milk should not be hard ; nor should it be boiled. Add it to the milk, and heat it by putting the bottle in warm water. Sweetening.—Use loaf sugar enough to make it as sweet as un- diluted new milk, a teaspoonful to a quart. If too sweet, it will cloy the appetite, and not enough food will be taken. Temperature.—The milk should be heated to one hundred de- grees Falirenheit; test it once, and try it on the cheek ; which should regulate it subsequently. Quantity.—For the first ten days, about one to one and a half pints a day should be given ; before the end of the first month the child will take more than a quart daily ; at the age of three months he may require two quarts daily. After that time the quality will change more than the quantity. The child will need half a pint at a time every three or four hours, which should be sucked in about ten minutes, and he will pass six or eight hours at night without feeding. The bottles should be annealed by being put into cold water and boiled three or four hours, and the most scrupulous care observed in cleaning them. We have made out a scale of dilutions for one year, but the mother may, after the child is six months old^ find it necessary to use more