RECIPES. 91 Baked or Steamed Indian Pudding.—For one quart of sweet milk take a half-dozen large spoonfuls of best corn-meal ; wet it with syrup, and pour the milk over boiling hot—stirring it meanwhile. Chop fine three or four large sub-acid apples, and stir in; steam or bake three-quarters of an hour ; then beat an egg with a spoonful of sugar, and add a little milk, and stir in. New Wat to Serve Egg Plant.—The vegetable egg we think has been undervalued, more on account of its improper preparation than for its demerit—the saturating it in butter and lard being the greatest objection. Wife has this season prepared as follows : Peel and then cut egg in slices or pieces ; add water enough to boil soft, and salt to suit taste. When soft pour off water and mash it; make a batter of flour and eggs (chicken); mix the whole together, and bake like griddle- cake. When the proper quantities are mixed it will make a nice brown cake, with no grease (except to keep free from pan), and free from the strong wild taste which is generally disliked. We think the egg is destined to become a more general article of food, especially among hygienists. So says H. M. Engle. Maple Syrup.—This is the most delicious of the sweets. Every family should have some. If given to children on oatmeal or cracked wheat for breakfast every morning they would thrive like calves well fed with milk. To make a good maple syrup, melt with one pound of maple sugar two pounds of best white sugar. It will not do to use the brown, as this is not clean enough. Tomato Gravy.—Scald, peel, and cut very fine, a pint of good, ripe tomatoes ; put into a stewpan, with a pint of boiling water, and stew them one hour; stir frequently to keep them free from the bottom, and to make them very smooth and fine. When they are stewed down to a pint, rub a large spoonful of flour with a lump of butter the size of a walnut, and stir into the tomatoes ; stir thoroughly till they are cooked, then pour a pint of rich, sweet creapi into the middle of the thickened tomatoes, and let them become boiling hot be- fore you stir them ; then stir well together, and boil five minutes. Salt to taste. Cut a slice of brown bread, or split gems into four pieces, lay into a vegetable dish, and pour the tomatoes over them. This is very nice when, well cooked, and all the ingredients are sweet and fresh. Children who are fond of tomatoes like this modification of cream and gravy. Apple Pan Doodt.—For a family of six persons use a two-quart tin or earthen pan. Use the best pie apples. Pare and slice the apples nicely. 1st. Place a layer of apples about an inch thick, season with a speck of salt and sugar. 2d. Put a layer of cracker crumbs half inch thick. Alternate a layer of apples and cracker crumbs until the pan is full. Bake one hour, and serve with cream or rich milk.— K. I. Greenings are the apples for pies and puddings. B.mikd Apples.—Select sound apples of one size—pippins or some other well-flavored apple—peel and core ; use a small knife Avith a narroAv blade, and take out the core of the apple from the blossom