161 PEACTICAL DIETETICS. and cream. Tliere are, of course, instances in which they will not be tolerated, hut these are exceptions. Fat is not digested in the stomach, hut by the pancreatic juice in the intestines, nature having provided a special juice to form it into an emulsion so it may be ab- sorbed. In this state every atom of fat is so small that it requires a microscope to detect it, and in this state it may easily be passed through the walls of the intestines and carried into the circulation. We need no better evidence of the need of fat than this careful provi- sion for its digestion in the system. The symptoms which attend a non-use of fats in some form are coldness of the extremities, a ten- dency to indigestion, lack of nervous energy and power to think. Emaciation, diminished muscular power, and a tendency to consump- tion. It may be true that many persons suffer from an inability to digest fats, and that sometimes they obstruct the liver and make much trouble. In all such cases it will be advisable to use them wisely and judiciously, but rarely to avoid them altogether, except, perhaps, in corpulence, where they are best used in great moderation. Lean peo- ple should use fats rather more freely than fat ones. The amount of fat necessary for a healthy working person is about three ounces daily. Persons with extraordinary working power require more than this. The starch in our food is to a certain extent a substitute for fat, and may be converted into it. SUGAR. Is not sugar an objectionable article of food? Ans.—No. Sugar is a carbo-hydrate, and bears a close relationship to fat, only the latter contains about two and a half times as much force-giving quality. It is objected to sugar that it deranges digestion, obstructs the liver, spoils the teeth, and in many ways does harm— no doubt of it. Taken on an empty stomach, and in great quantities, sugar is injurious ; but as a part of our food, and used in moderation, sugar is not only harmless, but very beneficial. Children should be allowed a reasonable amount of sugar as a part of their meals, but candies, as generally sold, made partly of sugar or glucose, and many poisonous ingredients, should never find their way into the stomachs of our little ones. So, too, the syru] >s made by the action of sulphuric acid on corn-starch, or the refuse in corn-starch factories, making a beautiful golden-drip syrup, is a very dangerous article, spoiling both stomach and teeth. In using sugar or syrups, choose only the purest and best sorts, otherwise much harm will come from them. As you value teeth, stomach, and health, never use those articles of food manufactured in the chemist’s shop ; if you do, you must expect to suffer the consequences. Half the ills of life would be avoided by careful attention to the wise choice and adaptation of food to daily needs. CONCLUSION. This little work is here brought to an end. It does not pretend to be an elaborate and exhaustive treatise; but it is believed that its pre-