59 RECirES. from the dough, as the sudden heat of baking expands it, thus making the rolls much lighter. Let bake in a very hot oven. Snow Cakes or Bread.—First cool a wooden bowl, in this put the desired quantity of corn or unbolted wheat meal, mix with this twice or three times as much snow. It now appears like dry meal. Put some on a hot griddle ; if too dry to turn weB add more snow; if too wet to be light add more meal; when just right bake the same as batter cakes, or put it in a pan, about two inches deep—rounding it from the edge—and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. Corn Cakes.—Pour hot water on to corn meal to make a stiff bat- ter ; let it stand over night. In the morning add milk to thin it, then stir in Graham flour, in which is a little baking powder, until it is the right consistence for baking. Bake in gem pans, and they will be light and nice, with a very small proportion of yeast powder. Corn Meal Breakfast Cake.—For two baking tins take one and a half pints of coarsely ground corn meal. Add water nearly boiling, but not enough to wet quite all of the corn meal; add cold water, a little at a time, stirring thoroughly between whiles, until you have it so thin that it has a tendency to settle as you pour it into your pie tins. It should not be more than half an inch deep in the tins, and it should bake quickly in a hot oven. Corn Cake, with Fruit.—Pour one quart boiling water on one quart corn meal, and stir quickly. Wet the hands, and form the dough into small round cakes one-half an inch thick. Bake in a hot oven. The addition of a few raspberries, huckleberries, or any other sub-acid fruit, is a decided improvement. Sweet apples, chopped fine, are also excellent. Corn and Rye Biscuits.—Pour boiling water on coarse yellow corn meal, and stir to the consistency of a thick batter. Immediately add coarse rye meal to make into a very soft dough ; form into small, flat biscuits (fifteen to a baking pan) with the hands frequently wet in cold water, and bake immediately in a hot oven. They are very nice for variety, and are best made of equal parts of corn and rye. Bake thirty minutes or more. Wheat Meal Crisps—Wet unbolted wheat meal with boiling water, and form a stiff dough. Grease, or sprinkle flour on a nice sheet of iron—the bottom of a smooth sheet-iron pan would answer— on this roll out the dough as thin as possible, mark into convenient squares, and bake in a slow oven. When rightly baked they will not curl or blister. Invalids with the poorest teeth, whose state of health may require dry food, can eat them. Wheat Meal Biscuits.—Pour boiling soft water upon coarse white-wheat meal, stir with a spoon to a dough as soft as it can be managed, by the exercise of skill, upon a molding board. Roll to an inch in thickness, cut with a biscuit cutter, prick and bake immedi- ately in an oven hotter than is necessary for the two preceding. It