127 PEACTICAL DIETETICS. of the little inmates of this particular school, and invito any one to see how they work and how they play. Where the food is amply suf- ficient and varied, a boy does not want beer, nay, is better without it; where the food is not so, beer or wine will but imperfectly supplement its shortcomings. Another noteworthy point in the arrangements of this school is the veto on all “hampers from home,” and the absence of any “ shop ” for the sale of sweets, etc. These are far from harmless institutions ; they are time-honored abominations which cannot be too strongly con- demned. The evil tendencies, at any rate of the latter, are so glaring that its authorized existence is, in my opinion, a blot upon any school. Setting aside the trash eaten, the sickness caused, the morbid ap- petite and habit of selfish gluttony acquired, and the facilities afforded for the introduction of contraband goods—the money boys often spend at these places is grievous to think of. I can vouch for many a boy, whose parents were weak enough to supply him with almost unlimited pocket-money, having often spent at his school “ shop ” a weekly sum quite suflicieut to feed a poor family. Now, where school meals are abundant enough, varied enough (especially in respect of sugar and vegetable juices), and frequent enough, there the inmates will have no further craving for cakes, sweets, fruits, etc. But if there be a shortcoming in one or other of these respects, then instinct drives the boys to seek elsewhere those elements of food in which their regular diet is deficient. An authorized “ tuck shop,” therefore, in connection with a school is priiria facie evidence to an outsider, and not uncommonly a tacit admission on the part of the school })roprietor that the diet of the inmates by no means satisfies all their legitimate cravings. That a scale of diet such as I have here advocated is just about what boys ought to have, if they are to develop into strong healthy men, I am satisfied from personal experience and observation. That it is at all likely to meet with the acceptance of schoolmasters gen- erally, I am not simple enough to suppose. It is too violent an inno- vation on old routine. Nay, even paterfamilias himself will probably pooh-pooh such new-fangled nations of feeding boys like grown men (especially when he finds they cost more money), forgetting that boys need more and more varied food than men. So-and-so Avas good enough for his (pater’s) boyhood, why won’t it do for his son’s ? But paterfamilias should speak only for himself. The diet of his school- days suflficed for him, thanks probably to his sound constitution, but was it enough for many of his less robust schoolmates ? Bid any of these in after years fail to grow U2i strong and healthy men ? and if so, is paterfamilias sure that their “ simple,” i. e., monotonous and meagre mode of feeding during their years of most active growth had nought to do with their failure ? Just as any system of teaching is a real success in i)ro2)ortion as it adapts itself to the iieculiar needs—not of those who are quick and willing, but of those who are slow or averse to learn—so any scale of diet aj)proaches perfection in exact proportion to the i)rovision made, not merely for the average standard of taste and appetite, but for all reasonable deviations therefrom. The daily meals of a school may bo