112 MILK. I prefer this way to the plan of soaking' the oatmeal in cold water, ■which I have tried, but find that the taste is not so pleasant. Skimmed Milk.—Skimmed milk, according to analysis, is not greatly inferior to new milk, except in the amount of butter it con- tains ; as will be seen from the following : 100 parts new milk—water, 86 ; nitrogenous, 5.5 ; sugar, 3.8 ; fat, 3.6 ; salts, 0.06. 100 parts skimmed milk—water, 88 ; nitrogenous, 4.0 ; sugar, 3.8 ; fat, 1.8 ; salts, 0.8. The effect on Dr. Smith of eating one pint of new milk was to increase the exhalation of carbonic acid 2.26 grains per minute. It also gave an increase of air inhaled of 96 cubic inches in one min- ute ; skimmed milk, on the other hand, gave an increase to carbonic acid exhaled of 84 grains per minute and 21 cubic inches in the in- spired air. Much is said in these days regarding the food qualities of alcoholic drinks, but Dr. Edward Smith, in his experiments on the best brandy as food, found that instead of an increase of vital ac- tion by the exhalation of more carbonic acid and the inhalation of more air, that there was a diminution’of both. In other words, vital action was diminished instead of increased, and this was the result with nearly all the alcoholic drinks tested. And in those cases where vital action seemed increased, it was in a very slight degree, not one-fifth so much as shown above in the use of milk. Ten grains of milk consumed in the body produces heat sufficient to raise 1.7 lb. of water 1° F., and this is equal to raising 1.246 lb. one foot high. Can alcohol consumed in the body do this? Cautions Regarding the Use op Milk.—While good milk is an excellent article of food for the young, the aged, and many in- valids, it may be the means of spreading dangerous diseases. That which is sent to cities may have received infection from the air of the dairy-house, and in this way scarlet and typhoid fevers sometimes be propagated. But a greater source of danger is in the water that the dairyman mixes with it. If the water is pure, of course the in- jury lies only in the less amount of nourishment it contains ; but if water is used from wells or springs not pure, then the danger is very great. . In England numerous instances have come to light where a large number of families supplied by the same milkman have had typhoid fever, and on careful investigation it was found that the dairyman had in these cases watered his milk from a well-pump in the yard, into which there was a slight leakage from a drain. Through this leak had oozed the poisonous germs that poisoned the milk, and carried that most dangerous malady into forty-seven families, destroying one hundred and sixty-five persons. Thanks to the spirit of investiga- tion which sought and found the source of the contagion. Still an- other source of danger in the use of milk is where the child is nursed by a diseased mother, or one subject to fits of passion, or where the mother has been poisoned by food or medicine. We mention these things that all may be on their guai'd, and be able to avoid causes of disease that lurk in unsuspected and hidden places. Crkvm.—Cream is a liquid food of great richness, especially in fat, and pure would be too hearty to be used as a food to any groat extent ;