RECIPES. G5 Baked Eggs.—Take a common white dish with a smooth bottom, and large enough to hold the eggs you wish to cook ; do not crowd them. Set the dish into the oven till quite hot, then butter it; have the eggs broken, and slip them carefully into the dish : sprinkle a little salt over them, and put directly into a quick oven and bake three or five minutes. Butter and pepper may be added, if desired, when they are cooked. A tablespoonful of cream to two eggs, when they are first set to bake, is nice. PREPARATIONS OF CHEESE. Cheese and Bread Toast.—Grate half a cup of good cheese— use your crumbs and dry pieces—mix with it one cup of grated bread and the yolk of one egg, half a spoonful of butter, and three spoonfuls of rich cream. Add a salt spoonful of salt, and a sprinkle of cayenne and mustard if desired. Toast two or three slices of bread, spread the cheese mixture on quite thick, put into the oven a minute or two, and send to the table hot. Or lay on a top slice, and make a sandwich. Take a sharp knife and cut into four pieces. Cottage Cheese.—This is a farmer’s dish, but should and would be eaten and appreciated by all classes if they knew how wholesome and digestible it is. Those who have plenty of milk and make butter, have an abundance of sour or clabbered milk daily, clean and fresh. Skim the cream off for the churn, and set a gallon or two of the milk on the stove in a milk pan, and let it gradually warm till it is luke- warm all through. Stir it occasionally to prevent its hardening at the bottom, and when it is a little warmer than new milk, and the whey begins to show clear around the curd, pour it all into a coarse thin bag, tie close, and hang up to strain. Let it hang two or three hours in a cool, shady place, then take from the bag and put in a covered dish. When preparing the rest of a meal, mix with the curd rich sweet cream, sugar, and nutmeg. Some pi’efer salt and pepper, but the sugar gives it the place of fruits or acids. This preparation of milk will often be found most salutary and wholesome for dyspeptics and weak inflamed stomachs. The clabber is also very nutritious and easily digested. SANDWICHES. Sandwiches are very useful to put in your bag or your pocket when you are not likely to be able to procure your usual meal. Cheese Sandwiches.—Take two-thirds of good cheese, grated, and one-third of butter ; add a little cream ; pound all together in a mortar ; then spread it on slices of brown bread or gems ; lay another slice over each ; press them gently together, and cut in small square pieces. Egg S.vrDWiCHES.—Boil fresh eggs five minutes ; put them in cold water, and when quite cold peel them, and after taking a little of the white off each end of the eggs, cut the remainder in four slices. Lay them between bread and butter. 3*