PRACTICAL DIETETICS. 123 OVER-EATING. Do not people generally eat too mucli food ? Ans.—Many do ; but eating too much is not so common as improper eating. If the food is wisely chosen there is not much danger of over- eating. Dr. Beard says, It is a fallacy to suppose that people, as a rule, ml too much, and that most of the diseases of the world come from over- feeding. The truth is that among all decent or civilized people, the tendency is directly the reverse. In our country, and especially in our large cities, far more are underfed than overfed. Throughout our land, thousands and thousands die every year from actual starvation. Some of these unfortunates are little children whose parents are too ignorant, or too poor, to give them what is necessary to sustain life. But many of them are adults, whom hard poverty, or sad ignorance, has forced into a habit of systematic though undesigned starvation. Day after day their stomach receives less nutriment than the system Jemands. Day after day the vital powers slowly fade, the strength grows less, the spirit becomes morbid, and the face wan and dejected. Disease now steps in, attacks and carries by force some important citii- del of the body, and death follows. The process is a slow one—some- times very slow—extending, perhaps, over many years, but it is often- times just as sure as it is slow. The latter remarks apply with great force to the poor of all large cities. With abundance all around them, they overwork and slowly starve to death. GUIDE TO PROPER QUANTITY OF FOOD. Wliat is the best guide to the amount of food required ? Ans.—The natural appetite is the only guide. This should be aided by common sense and reason. In cases of disease our judgment may be called on to aid the appetite, to say, eat more or less as the case may require. VARIETY AT MEALS. Do you think it better to eat one or two articles at a meal, or from a number of dishes ? Ans. a wholesome variety is better than to eat only from one or two dishes, except in some kinds of morbid condition, when confinement to one kind of food may be necessary. BRAIN WORKERS AND THEIR FOOD. Do brain-workers require as much food as those who work with their muscles only ? Ans.—We do not know as this question has ever been decided by ex- periment, but we think from some observations we have made that they do require as much food, provided they take sufficient exercise for health. They should choose their food with care, so it may not oppress the stomach, and arrange their hours of eating so as not to let vigorous brain work come during the time of digesting a hearty meal. The changes of tissue in the brain during protracted thought are rapid and