80 RECIPES. Apple and Tapioca Pudding.—Put a tea-cupful of tapioca into a quart of warm water before breakfast ; set it where it will keep warm for three hours ; stir it from the bottom once or twice and keep covered. Pare and cut in thin slices five or six nice tart apples, and lay them in the bottom of the pudding-dish ; add a heaped cu])ful of sugar, dissolved in hot water, to the tapioca; stir well together, and pour over the apples ; bake slowly for two hours. To be eaten with whipped cream flavored with a little lemon or orange. Good either hot or cold. Graham Gem Pudding.—Take six cold gems—yesterday’s baking; brenk them into small pieces, and i)our over them one pint of cold water; cover and let them soften for an hour ; then add a pint and a half of new milk ; a handful of seeded raisins or currants ; one beaten egg, and one tea-spoonful of cream-yeast. Mix half a cup of sugar and the cream-yeast thoroughly together, before putting them with the other ingredients. Stir together well and quickly ; butter the pud- ding-dish with cold, sweet butter, and bake in a quick oven three- fourths of an hour. Ste.vmed Graiia^i Pudding.—Sour milk or fresh buttermilk, five cupfuls; broAvn sugar, two cups ; butter, half a cup ; two tea-spoon- fuls of soda ; two eggs ; half a pound of seeded dates. Graham flour enough to make a tliin batter. The dates should be chopped fine and rolled in flour before they are put into the batter. Steam for three hours. Make a sauce of milk and cornstarch, or eat with good cream. Apple and Bread Pudding.—Break and rub bread fine ; peel and chop good, SAveetish apples—SAveet apples keep their place, and take a little longer to cook ; butter a pudding-dish, then put a layer of apples an inch deep, then a layer of bread-crumbs not quite so thick, then another layer of apples, alternating, till the dish is full; bread being last. A little butter may be added to each layer of bread, or a table-spoonful of cream sprinkled over each. Bake an hour, or till the apples are thoroughly cooked. Serv’e Avith SAveet sauce, or cream. Cherry Pudding. —One quart of scalded milk; one pint of corn- meal ; half a pint of Graham flour, or a little less of fine flour ; four eggs Avell beaten ; a tea-spoonful of yeast-poAvder, and a pint of ripe cherries ; Avash, and pick out the imperfect cherries ; leave the seeds in ; drain olf all the Avater, and roll the cherries, Avhile damp, in some of the flour. Stir all together ; put into a pudding-mould or bag, and boil tAvo hours. To bo eaten Avith sugar and cream. The late black cherries are the best for this pudding. They are not so juicy, retain their shape, and diffuse a rich purple tint around them, Avhich makes the pudding handsome for the table. Poor Man’s Pudding.—One cup of flour; one cup of cornmeal ; one table-sx>oonful of cream-yeast poAvder mixed Avell Avith the meal and flour ; two cux)S of rich milk; one cup of molasses; one cup of cur- rants Avashed and rolled in flour; one table-spoonful of butter rubbed evenly and cold into the pudding-mould. Mix the ingredients Avell together; put into the mould, and boil three hours. Be careful to keep the pudding-mould upright in the boiling kettle. Do not allow the Avater to stop boiling at any time, or to boil over the toji of the