V 15 Laight Street, New-York. Parturition Without Pain > OR, A Code of Directions for Avoiding most of the Pains and Dangers of Child-Bearing. EDITED BY M. L. HOLBROOK, M.D., Editor of The Herald of Health. WITH A.TST OH 66 The Care of OmEHiiEix, By Mrs. Clemence S. Lozier, M.D., Dean of the J^''ew- '''orA; Jlfedicat College for Women. C O KT T EKT T S, 1. Healthfulness of Child-Bearing. 2. Dangers of Preventions. 3. Medical Opinions as to escaping Pain, 4. Preparation for Maternity. 5. Exercise during Pregnancy. 6. The Sitz Bath and Bathing generally. 7. What Food to Eat and what to Avoid. 8. The Mind during Pregnancy. 9. The Ailments of Pregnancy and their Remedies. 10. Female Physicians, Anaesthetics. To which are added: 1. The Husband’s Duty to his Wife. 2. Best Age for Rearing Children. 3. Shall Sickly People become Parents ? 4. Small Families. 5. Importance of Physiological Adaptation of Husband and Wife. 6. Celibacy. 7. Effects of Tobacco on Offspring. 8. Latest Discoveries as to the Determining the Sex of Offspring. 9. Father’s vs. Mother’s Influence on the Child. 10. Shall Pregnant Women Work? 11. Effects of Intellectual Activity on Number of Offspring. 12. Size of Pelvis, and its Relation to Healthful Parturition, etc., etc. WHAT IS SAID ABOUT "PARTURITION WITHOUT PAIN.” Godey's Lady's Book says: “ We give our cordial approbation to this work, and would like to see it in the hands of every mother in the land. The infor- mation it contains is most important, and, we are fully convinced, reliable.” Mary A. Livermore, editor of The Woman's Journal, Boston, says: “Your book can not be too highly commended as containing indispensable knowl- edge for women.” Its gratuitous circulation should be a recognized part of the Woman Move- ment.—/wcfea;. The course recommended can not fail to be beneficial.—BeecAer’s Christian Union. Glad to see such hooks from the American press.—Methodist, {New-York.) Contains suggestions of the greatest value.— Tilton's Golden Age. A work whose excellence surpasses our power to commend.—ForA Mail. The price by mail, $1.00, puts it within the reach of all. Address ^VOOS & HOLBROOK, Publishers,