MILK. lOY MILK. Milk is a liquid food in a much higher sense than water. A pound of new cow’s milk contains: 1. Six drachms or three-fourths of an ounce of sugar. 2. Four draclims or half an ounce of butter. 3. Six drachms or three-quarters of an ounce of cheese 4. Two drachms or one quarter of an ounce of mineral salts. 5. Thirteen and three-quarter ounces of water. Milk makes a most perfect food and drink for the infant. It is also a very important food for other than children. It is of great service to invalids and the convalescent. It is true there are some constitutions with which it does not agree. Where this is the case, the objection may generally be obviated by skimming off the cream before using it. Even skim milk is very nutritious; it contains nearly all the valuable nourishment of new milk except the butter. A Milk Diet.—Within a few years a milk diet has become a very popular prescription among physicians, they ordering patients to sub- sist on it for days or weeks at a time. In cases where the patient needs a good sustaining food without the risk of infiammatovy action or excitement succeeding its use, a milk diet is perhaps the best regimen that can be chosen. This is especially true in all diseases affecting the respiratory organs, inflammations of the stomach, bowels, kidneys, and bladder. It is of benefit in cases of hemorrhage, and gout, and diarrhoea. In fevers it is much used. In convalescence from small- pox, scarlet fever, measles, typhoid fever, milk is often very service- able. I have found gems and milk very excellent after scarlet fever. Indeed, good home-made brown bread and milk is almost a perfect food, especially for feeble children suffering with scrofulous habit of body, mesenteric diseases, spinal affections, fits, taint of the blood. I even go so far as to say that all children would be the better for tak- ing one meal of brown bread and milk daily, and feeble ones should use it three times a day. In ulceration of the stomach or bowels, milk is very serviceable. The case reported in the Herald of Health for August, 1873, of Mrs. Sara B. Clase, is in point. After nearly two years’ suffering of untold agony from ulceration of the stomach, she was cured by a milk diet. She began by taking a teaspoonful every hour, and adhering to it alone for nearly a year, except the amount was increased as the strength returned. The greatest fear is in taking more than the stomach in its weakened condition can manage. I commend a study of this case to all suffering from ulceration or cancer of the stomach. In diabetes an exclusive milk diet has been found to work wonders. It must be persevered in methodically and exclusively until conva- lescence is established. It is well known that in this ugly disease the great danger is that the starch of the food is converted into sugar, and as such passes out of the system without yielding any of its force to the body. Dr. Arthur Scott Duncan, of England, says, “ the ra- pidity with which milk acts is truly surprising. Twenty-four hours