EECIPES. 61 ov’^en cools off, if it is several liours longer. It should be dark tolored, light and firm, with a good soft crust. A round-bottomed iron kettle will do to bake in. Try it. Yankee Brown Bread.—Take equal quantities of rye and corn meal, and mix with water, making a dough that can be kneaded. Work with the hands until it loses its stickiness, and will readily cleave from the fingers. Let it stand several hours, or over night, and bake in loaves, in covered dishes, in a moderate oven, from three to five hours. Or, it may be steamed three hours, and baked one. Coarseiy ground meal is better than fine for this kind of bread. Apple Brown Bread.—Work equal parts of corn and rye meal into stewed apples until the entire mass is thoroughly mixed, and bake as above. Or, thin with water to a batter, and bake on the griddle. IIow TO Make Oat Meal Cakes.—The Rural Cyclopedia, pub- lished at Edinburgh, Scotland, gives the following receipt for making oat meal cakes. Well made they are delicious. “ As much meal as will make a sheet 24 or 30 inches in diameter and one-eighth of an inch in thickness, is put into a wooden basin, with a sufficiency of water for working -the meal into a light paste. The meal and water are mixed by the fingers of the right hand, while the basin is turned constantly round by the left hand, till the paste is made ; the paste is then turned out on a clean board, or table, and alternately kneaded with the knuckles of both hands, sprinkled with meal, gathered up, kneaded and sprinkled, and kneaded again and again, till it becomes a well kneaded and homo- geneous dough ; the dough is then flattened out with the knuckles into a circular cake of half an inch, or less, in thickness, and imme- diately afterward distended wdth a roller into a sheet of about one- eighth of an inch in thickness ; and the sheet is then pared round the edges and cut into three or four parts from the centre with a knife. The parts of the cut sheet of dough are fired, or half baked, first on the one side and then on the other, upon a thin circular plate of iron, called a griddle or girdle; and then they are toasted, or whole baked, by being placed on their edge on a toaster close before the fire, with first the one side and then the other exposed to the heat, Some butter is sometimes mixed with the paste, to render the cakes ‘ fresh ’ and highly relishable, and occasionally a few caraway seeds also are added, but in the estimation of racy, unsophisticated cake- eaters, all siich admixtures are an abomiiratioii.” A Scotchman writing to the New York Observer in reference to these cakes and oat meal generally, says : “The favorite accompaniment to this is sweet milk, dipped with the spoon (which has previously taken up and contains a portion of the porridge) out of a separate dish from the porridge.” Oat Meal Breakfast Cakes.—This is made of No. 2 oat meal, with water enough to saturate it, and little or no salt. Pour it into a baking tin half an inch or three-quarters deep, shake it down level, and when this is done it should be so wet that two or three spoonsfui of water should run freely on the surface. Put it in a quick oven