130 PRACTICAL DIETETICS. FRUIT ESSENCE. What is the composition of the various fruit flavors in common use for cooking? Ans.—The genuine are made from the fruits themselves, and are wholesome and palatable. Most of them in use are artificial; for in- stance, quince essence is made of aqua fortis, oil of rue, etc. ; pear flavor from fusil oil, acetate of potash and sulphuric acid ; apple essence from fusil oil, sulphuric acid and valerian acid ; strawberry, ras])berry, and other essences are made from various compounds of ethers. Taken in any quantity they are believed to be injurious to health ; and no doubt children, who are most likely to indulge in them to excess, are often made sick by them; indeed, such cases are common. The fruit syrups used at the soda fountains are largely artificial, and few can tell the difference, except in the after effect. The genuine is wholesome, the latter injurious. FRUIT JELLIES. Is the fruit jelly seen so often on the hotel table, used so frequently for dessert, and sold so abundantly by the grocer, healthful ? Ans.—Genuine fruit jelly is a wholesome dessert, and makes a pleasant drink when diluted with water, but most of the so-called fruit jelly put up so neatly in glass jars, so prettily colored, is not jelly at all, but a preparation from the feet and legs and bones of dead animals, that should find their way to the bone-boiler or the manufacturer of bone dust for the farmer. It is very cheap when compared with the true fruit jelly, and is made to resemble it by the color so easily given by the chemist. Chemistry is an art which has done much for civilization, but it has also done a great deal for dis- honest dealers, and a great deal to destroy the health of the people. Yet strange to say, most of them are too thoughtless to use their brains to protect themselves. When will people demand and have only genuine articles instead of cheap, worthless, fraudulent stuff, bearing only the name ? TARTARIC ACID. N \t proper to use tartaric acid in cookery ? Ans.—Tartaric acid is put up under the false name of fruitina, and is largely used to make tarts, pies, etc. It is not a rank poison but cannot be used very extensively without harm, and is no substitute for fruit. We advise you not to use it. MELONS. Are water and musk melons wholesome ? Ans.—There are many persons who think the melon very unwhole- some, but there really is no more wholesome fruit. If eaten fresh and fully ripe, it makes a most agreeable addition to the breakfast and dinner table.