RECIPES 08 per and sweet<3n to tlie taste with white sugar. In this case Dixie and White Apple tomatoes are best, as they have a decidedly fruity flavor. Beoii>ed Tomatoes.—First raise your tomato. If not quite ripe, no matter; cut in two flat-wise ; put it skin down, on a hot iron and in a few minutes (seasoned to your taste) you have a dish that is pretty, wholesome and delicious—tomatoes on the half shell. We have tried it. Those who have not, do not yet know how ex- quisite a morsel the tomato is capable of being made. With a little pepper and salt, or, better still, with butter and sugar, broiled toma- toes furnish a dish flt for the gods. Note.—This manner of preparing toniatoes is indeed excellent. We toast slices of bread nice and brown, l)iitter them a little, and lay on to them the broiled tomatoes ; put half a teacupfiil of cream into the dish around the toast, and set it into the oven a few minutes before taking to the table. Tomatoes should be sliced and boiled in their own juice without water. They should boil briskly. Twenty minutes suffices for a quart. If boiled much longer it injures their peculiar flavor. Sea- son when ready to take up. Baked Tomatoes.—One quart of fresh round tomatoes. Scald and peel carefully, so as not to break the tomato ; put into a deep dish, and season with a little salt and cayenne. Roll a teacupful of crackers and spread over the top ; cover lightly, and bake in a quick oven half or three quarters of an hour. Two or three lumps of butter, the size of a Lima bean, may be dropped into the dish just before dishing up. Slip them out carefully, the brown side up, or leave them in the bak- ing dish. Scalloped Tomatoes.—Peel as many large ripe tomatoes as you wish to prepare ; cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Pack 111 a pudding dish first a layer of tomatoes, then a thick layer of bread crumbs, salt, and a little white sugar and butter, then a layer of to- matoes, then bread crumbs, etc., till the dish is nearly full, having tomatoes last. Now dust over pepper, a little sugar and butter, strew the top with bread crumbs, and bake {covered) half an hour ; then re- move the cover and bake brown, but be careful not to scorch. CoiiN Oysters.—One quart of grated corn, three eggs well beaten, half a teaspoonful of salt, with flour enough to make them stick to- gether. Drop from a spoon into a hot buttered frying pan, making cakes the size of an oyster. A cup of sour milk, with half a teaspoon- ful of soda, will answer if eggs are not plenty. Green Corn on the Cob.—Remove the husks and silk from full- grown ears of corn in which the milk is well developed. Put them into sufficient boiling water to cover. Boil gently in a covered kettle from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the age of the corn. It is better cooked by steam for half an hour. Corn which requires more than half an hour to cook is not good. Corn when Cut from the Cob.—Split the kernels of corn before removing from the cob, and in cutting off cut them several times through, leaving a large part on the cob to be scraped off, so as to