115 TEA. pick headache, worthy of the attention of those who suffer with this coininon malady. The doctor there alleges that this beverage is the cause of more cases of this disease than any other, if not than all other causes put together, and gives a number of instances where, after leaving off its use, persons who had previously been afflicted were exempt from further attacks. One evidence the doctor gives of the injurious effects of this agent is the fact that tea-drinkers are liable to have headache if they omit its use at the regular times of taking it, and the cessation of the pain on again resuming their cups. This latter, with many other facts contained in the article, have often been observed, not only on myself, but on others, for I had inherited the disease from my mother. It had been the plague of her life, as well as my own. We had both been not excessive but regular tea-drinkers ; and though she lived to be over eighty years of age, she was never exempt from an attack, of greater or less severity, for more than a few weeks at a time, for a period of nearly or quite half a century. Knowing this fact, and that from my eaidiest recollection I had been similarly afflicted, I was content, when the pain returned, to relieve it with the appropriate remedies, with little thought or hope of ever being able to eradicate it. Some twenty years ago I had abandoned the use of coffee and green teas, using only the black and Japan. Pork, pastry, spices, acids, and most kinds of raw fruits were sure, if indulged in, to bring on an attack of my old trouble; and this weakness of the stomach seemed to be gradually on the increase, besides a train of nervous symptoms, such as sleeplessness, palpitation of the heart, un- steadiness of the hand when writing, etc., gave me no little annoyance. After reading the article referred to, I concluded, some three months ago, to use no more tea, substituting in its stead hot water with a little milk. The result, for the first week or ten days, was much as I had anticipated, being, during the whole of that time, scarcely ever free from headache. At length the pain became lighter, and when it did return was of short duration. My nervous symptoms grew less, palpitation left entirely, my stomach became much stronger. I can now eat with impunity many things which for years had been sure to disagree. The headache now very rarely returns, and never with severity ; besides, within the past two months my weight has increased sixteen i^ounds.” Tea. and Dyspepsia.—Where there is any tendency to dyspepsia, tea aggravates it, and many cases are cured by disusing it. Dr. Corfe mentions a cure of supposed cancer of the stomach, cured by the disuse of tea. Dr. Milligan mentions a person who could never use tea with- out experiencing a disposition to commit suicide. Tea-Drunkards.—In closing what is to be said about tea, one word seems necessary in regard to tea-drunkards. Their number is legion ; they are of both sexes, but more of women than of men. Instead of using tea in moderation, or as an occasional beverage, they swill it down three or more times a day, in quantities that are incompatible with health. They are as much slaves to the teapot as the drunkard is to his bottle. They are tea-drunkards. Tea, in anything but great moderation, is a poison capable of ruining the stomach, enfeebling and