53 KECIPES. into a bag made of firm lineu or cotton, tie close, and bang bigli ahd dry. Bread with Scalded Sponge.—Set your sponge the last thing at niglit, thus: put one yeast cake to soften in a half cup of warm water, sift two quarts of flour into a bowl or pan that will hold four quarts, scald the flour with a sufficient quantity of boiling water to moisten it all. Stir very thoroughly till it is free from lumps and cool enough to put in the yeast cake, add the yeast, and set to rise in a warm place in winter, or in a cool place in summer. In the morning before breakfast the sponge will be risen round and foamy, and should be made imme- diately into dough. Sift as much flour as you need into your bread bowl or pan, and in cold weather to warm the flour will gain you time and credit. If you wish to make a Graham loaf or two, save one-third of the sponge for that, and mix the re.st into the sifted and warmed flour, add a pint of warm water, or sufficient to make the flour into a firm dough, and knead until smooth and free from the board and hands. Put the dough back into the bread pan, cover with a clean cloth, and wrap a warmed blanket over the whole to keep from the air. The more muffled you wrap it the sooner the bread will rise. If the tem- perature has been just right, the bread will be ready to mold into the baking tins in less than two hours. Have the pans cleaned and greased; divide the dough into loaves which will two-thirds fill the pan, knead lightly with a little flour on the board, but use no more than you can help. Cover slightly and let it rise again till the loaf looks as large as it should be. Now the oven should be hot, with a firm steady fire, which will last three quarters of an hour ; fresh fuel ought not to be added till the bread is finished. Every cook should know just what her oven will do, and be governed accordingly; if too hot at the bottom set the pan up an inch, if too hot at the top cover the loaf Avith brown paper, open the oven as little as possible. When baked, remove the loaf at once from the pan and put to cool on a rack, or resting it on one edge. Never cover or allow bread to sweat in the baking tins, the crusts will soften as they cool. Good flour and properly made bread will not have hard crusts. When cold, wrap the bread in the bread cloth and put into a tray or into a clean tin boiler, cover, but not air- tight. Bread thus made will be good and fresh for several days. Rewark.—The keen fermenting odor Avhich starts up Avhen the dough is ready for the second kneading is not sour, nor does it need soda. Soda kills the lively quality of yeast. Yeast Graham Bread.—Take the remainder of the Avhite flour sponge, a tablespoonful of sugar, and three pints of Avarm Avater ; mix Avith them Graham flour into as stiff a dough as you can stir Avell Avith a large spoon. Beat it up thoroughly for ten minutes, or, if you can- not manage the spoon, dip the hand into water, and Avork the douo-h till it is very smooth. Let it rise tAvo hours, then stir it up and pu^it into deep baking-tins, and let it stand till it begins to rise again. Bake in a quick oven one hour. Graham flour ferments quicker than fine flour, and should not be alloAA^ed to rise so long. If, Avhen the bread is cold, it seems too soft, remember, the next time, to mix the dough a