RECIPES. 81 mould, as it is almost impossible to have the lid so close that water Avill not get in and quite spoil the pudding. When done turn the pud- ding out of the mould into a broad platter and serve hot with cream sauce. Note —The poor man’s pudfling may suggest the possibility of not having a would to boil it in. A small, high tin pail with a'lid which can be tied down tight will do quite as well, thougli it may have to boil an hour longer, to cook the center of the pudding. A pudding-bag dipped in cold water and floured inside is just as good. The pudding-mould is a great convenience, not an essential. Cottage Pudding.—One-half cup of sugar ; one egg ; one cupful of cream ; one pint of flour ; one heaping tea-spoonful of Taylor’s cream-yeast. Bake in a cake-pan. To be eaten with a hot, sweet sauce, or with cold cream. Graham Birdsnest Pudding—Is made by laying in a deep dish nice quartered apples, and pouring over them a thin batter made of flour ; one tea-cup of sour milk, and about one-third of a tea-spoonful of soda. Bake in a moderate oven till the apples are thoroughly cooked. Tapioca Custard Pudding.—Soak two table-spoons tapioca over night in cold water ; when ready to make custard, boil one quart milk; while boiling add beaten yolks of three eggs, three-fourths cup sugar, and the tapioca ; turn in the dish you wish to serve it in ; have the beaten whites ready, sweetened a little and spread over top ; put in oven and j ust brown a little. Eat cold. Delmonico Pudding. — Three table-spoonfuls cornstarch; one quart boiling milk ; three eggs, whites and yolks separated. Mix yolks with cornstarch and add milk gradually. Let it boil. Beat whites to stiff froth, sweeten. Put cornstarch in pudding-dish, cover with frosting and set in oven to brown. To be eaten cold. Nice Cheap Pudding.—One quart of milk; four table-spoonfuls of flour ; four eggs ; six table-spoonfuls of sugar ; nutmeg. Steam three- fourths of an hour. Sago Pudding.—One dozen tart apples ; one and a half cups of sago ; soak the sago till soft; peel and core the apples, and place in a dish ; fill the apples with sugar ; jiour the sago over, and bake till tho apples are cooked. Sago Birdsnest Pudding—Is made by laying quartered fresh apples, or stewed dried ones, in a pan about half full, and pouring over them the sago, prepared as for a thin mush ; then bake in a moderate oven till the apples are cooked ; say an hour or more, accord- ing to the size of the pudding. Indian Pudding.—Extra good.—Two tea-cups of cornmeal; half a cup of superfine flour; one cup of syrup ; half a tea-spoonful of salt. Scald three quarts of milk, and stir into the above. Let it stand half an hour—stir it again. Bake quickly until it boils, then slowly about two hours. 4