74 EECIPE8. wet witli very thin sweet cream. It should he rolled thin and baked in an oven as hot as for common pie crust. Note.—This makes excellent pastry if properly baked. Many patients have said to us they did not see how they could ever again relish the pastry in coininoii use (this is so much sweeter and more palatable, to say nothing of its wholesomeness). Apple Pies. — Take nice, tart apples — spitzenhergs are best, al- though pippins, greenings, russets, etc., are excellent. Slice them ; fill the under crust an inch thick ; sprinkle sugar over them; add a spoonful or two of water ; cover with a thin crust, and bake three- fourths of an hour in a moderate oven. Another.—Peel and cut about two pounds of apples—sharp ones being the best for the purpose; cut each into four pieces, removing the cores ; then cut each quarter into two or three pieces, according to the size. Put half of them into a pie-dish, slightly press them down ; put over them two ounces of brown sugar ; put in tlie remaining ap- ples ; then add another two ounces of sugar, making the apples form a kind of dome, the center being two inches higher than the sides ; add a small wine-glass of water; cover the top with paste, and bake in a moderate oven from half to three-quarters of an hour. ]\l0CK Apple Pie.—For a large pie-plate, two crackers (milk or soda), one egg, one cup of sugar, one of water, and the juice of one lemon ; add a pinch of salt, and siiice with nutmeg or the rind of the lemon. This is quite a tolerable counterfeit. Apple Puffs.—Peel and core six tart apples, cook quickly with very little water; cover close so as to make them white and free from lumps ; when done to a puff, sprinkle over them two heaping spoon- fuls of sugar, and stir smooth. Set to cool. Prepare your pastry. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, stir into the apples and fill the crust; grate a little nutmeg or cinnamon over the top. No top crust. Bake in a quick oven, only long enough to cook the pastry. Apple Float.—A pint of stewed, well mashed apples ; whites of three eggs, four large spoonfuls of sugar, beaten until stiff ; then add the apples and beat all together until stiff enough to stand alone. Fill a deep dish with rich cream, boiled soft custard, and pile the float on toj). This is excellent with other fruits in place of apples. French Apple Turnovers.—Eight large apples ; eight ounces of sugar ; two ounces of butter, and the rind of a lemon. Prepare the apples as for a pie; put them into a saucepan with the sugar, butter, the rind of a lemon rubbed on a piece of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of water ; cover the pan, and set it over a slow fire, turning it occasionally till the apples are about half done, and pour them into a basin to cool. Roll out a piece of paste in a circular form, the eighth of an inch thick, and about the size of a dinner-plate ; wet it round, and fasten a rolled cord of paste within an inch of the edge ; put in the prepared apples, raising them in the center in the form of a dome ; spread some apricot or orange marmalade over the surface, and cover the whole with another circular piece of paste, and press the edges together, or fold them over in the form of a cord. Spread