Herald of Health 3P03I 3. e-7-4* — ^ $2 A TEAK, WITH THE FOLLOWING PREMIUM; F&EMOTM TETI THE HEEALD OP HEALTH AND A COPY OP THE WORKS OF SHAKESPEARE, In One Volnme of 850 Pages. It is printed in new type on good paper; contains a Portrait, Sketch of his Life, and a Glossary, together with his Poems, and is the most marvelous in- stance of cheapness of which we have any knowledge. SPECIAL OFFER. We will send The Herald of Health one year to any person, without a premium, for $1.50, or half price ; or, in clubs, we will send five copies for $1 each, without premiums. NINE REASONS FOR TAKING IT. 1. It takes the broadest meaning of Health, and includes all that relates to Moral, Intellectual, and Physical Culture. 2. It teaches Sick People how to become Strong, Healthy, and Handsome. 3. It teaches Well People how to keep their Bodies and Brains in the best condition. 4. It teaches how to Eat, Drink, Sleep, Bathe, Dress, and all that relates to the well being of the Human Race. 5. It teaches how to Roar Children, so that they shall be Strong and Beauti- ful. Its articles are the best ever publislied on tliis subject. 6. It teaches the truest Temperance, temperance in all things, and is the best Temperance advocate in the world. Every body should read our “ Tem- perance Problems.” 7. It teaches how to Prepare Food in the most healthful manner, and gives every month a very valuable set of Recipes for AVholesome Cooking. 8. Its Contributors are among the Best Thinkers and Writers in America. No journal of its kind pays Living Writers so much for their Best Thoughts on Live Topics of every-day interest on Human Life. 9. The Best People like it; the Press speak well of it. “It contains,” says The Scientijic Amencan^ more sensible articles than any other magazine that comes to our sanctum. READ WHAT IS SAID BY THE PRESS. T\\& New-York Tribtme says: “Asa ‘preacher of righteousness’ in the de. partment of Physical Culture, it enjoys the aid of numerous sound thinkers and able writers.” The Christian iVorlcl says: “ The Herald or Health is unquestionably one of the best magazines of the day. It is devoted to the better education of morals and health.” The Standard says: “The Herald of Health is always a great pet in our family, and is looked after with deep interest.” The Neto-York Eveniny Fast says: “ We can always commend this journal without qualification.” A health magazine should be found in every household as much as a farm or political 'paper. WOOD & HOLBROOK, Laiffht Streetf New-Yoric,