29 SOURCE OF MUSCULAR STRENGTH. tion is comparatively small. Now the theory is that the proteids supply the material for building up, constructing the body, and especially the muscles ; but the main source of muscular strength is the fats and amyloids. How came about this change of view ? In this wise. It was found that men could do very hard work for awhile when deprived of proteids in their food. It was also found that the urea in the urine was not in sufficient quan- tity to account for all the force exerted, nor was it much more (often less) during long continued exercise than during repose. As long ago as 1861 Troube asserted that all muscular strength was derived from the oxydation of the fats and hydro-carbons; and in 1864 Bonders was con- vinced that the transformation of muscle was not sufficient to explain all the force exerted in the body. Soon after. Dr. Edward Smith showed that while the amount of urea in the urine (urea is the product of the oxydation of mus- cle) was not increased by exercise the amount of carbonic acid (carbonic acid is a product of the oxydation of the car- bon of the fats and hydro-carbons) was greatly increased, showing that during the manifestation of muscular power there was a great increase in the destruction of fats and amyloids. The most powerful argument, however, against Liebig’s theory was yet to be given, one which Liebig himself saw the force of, and never satisfactorily ans- wered. It is the argument, or rather the result of the experi- ments of Tick and Wislicenus, made in August, 1866. The results of these experiments were carefully and elaborately printed in The Herald of Health for September of that year. In order to make the subject clear, a very brief state- ment of these experiments is necessary. On the 29th day of August, 1866, these gentlemen prepared themselves for the work of climbing to the top of one of the Bernese Alps mountains, called the Faulhorn, 6,417 feet above Lake Brentz. Their object was to see if their muscular strength