8G RECIPES. drugs will meet the case,” said he : so in this list of miscellaneous dishes, which were not properly classified, or were received after the foregoing portion of this work was in type, something will be found to meet the wants of the table when the good house-wife don’t know what else to get. We shall commence the list with a recipe for making Dr. Heald’s favorite bread. It was, so far as we know, invented by the Doctor and his good wife, and is much used in his Institution. We also add a few other bread recipes recently sent in by our correspondents :— Dr. Heald’s Favorite Bread.—Stir the best white wheat meal into cold water, until the batter so formed can no longer be worked with the spoon. Then sprinkle meal upon your bread-board, and knead the dough thoroughly for ten, fifteen, or twenty minutes, as you have time, and desire the bread softer or harder. Work in all the meal you can while kneading. The more you knead it and incorporate air with it the lighter and better it will be. When sufficiently kneaded, roll out with the hands on the board into a cylindrical form two inches in diameter ; cut into pieces three inches long, and roll these into rolls a little shorter than your oven grate, and one inch in diameter ; place them on the hot grate, just from the range or stove, and bake in an oven, not quite so hot as for “ Gems,” twelve to twenty minutes. Break into pieces three inches long for table. We think this the best and sweetest bread that can be made. Coarse or Graham Bread.—No. 1, or fine Graham flour, makes the best bread. The sponge is made at the same time, and in like manner to wheat bread, except the water used, which is ten degrees colder, as coarse flour rises quicker than fine. The same proportions of milk and water used. It is generally sweetened a little with sugar. When the sponge is added, make as stiff a batter as can be stirred conveniently. When light, mold into soft loaves. For this reason, it wants the hottest place in the oven. Rye Bread is made like wheat, with one exception—the loaves are made quite soft. As little flour as possible is used in molding. Corn or Brown Bread.—The spcmge is made of unbolted rye or wheat. In tlie morning take four quarts of Indian meal, make a thin batter, using hot water. Let it stand half an hour to swell; then pour in the sponge and one quart of molasses, three quarts of rye meal, or enough to make a stiff batter ; then put into covered dishes to rise. Bake three hours. Boiled Wheat.—Take good plump wheat ; pick it carefully, and wash clean ; soak over night in soft water, and boil in same water till softened through, which will require several hours. Rye or barley may be cooked in the same way. Serve with cream, sugar, and ripe fruit. Brown Bread.—Mrs. Susan Everett, M. D., sends the following from a lady who attended one of her courses of lectures. The author states that twenty-five years ago she attended a course of lectures on hygiene, and the lessons she then learned have enabled her to keep in