04 RECIPES. Baked Irish Potatoes.—Boil soft eight good-sized Irish potatoes; mash them, add two tablespoonfuls of butter and a pint of milk : salt to taste. Put into a dish and bake half an hour. To Dress Sweet Potatoes.—Put two or three platefuls in the oven, bake till quite soft; peel and put them on a tin sheet, and bake again for half an hour. Another Way.—Another mode of dressing sweet potatoes. Boil the potatoes until quite soft ; peel and rub smooth with a spoonful of butter and salt. Bake in a pan, and turn into a vegetable dish. Rice Cakes.—One pint of soft-boiled rice, a teaspoonful of butter, an egg, half a pint of milk, and half a pint of rice flour: salt to the taste. Beat all well together, and bake in patties. Corn Muffins.—To three pints of corn meal add a pint of tepid water, a teacupful of bakers’ yeast, a tablespoonful of sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt; mix all well together and bake in rings. To be mixed at night, for use the next morning, etc. Corn Dodgers.—One quart of corn meal, a little salt, and water enough to make the batter just stiff enough to make into cakes with the hands. Bake in a Dutch oven, on tin sheets. North Carolina Dabs.—One pint milk, two eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, Avine glass of milk : scald the meal, and while hot rub in the butter ; beat the eggs very light, and add to the meal, stir in the milk and a little salt. Drop the mixture from a spoon upon a tin sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Muffins.—One pint of milk, one dessert spoonful of butter, two eggs, half gill of yeast, a little salt, and as much flour as will make it thick enough for a spoon to stand. To be baked in rings. Graham Muffins.—One pint of Graham flour, a pint of milk, one egg, a little salt. Loaf Rice Bread.—One pint of rice flour, three eggs, a spoonful butter,.saltspoonful of salt ; beat the eggs quite light; stir in butter, flour, and salt. Dissolve a yeast powder in a little warm Avater ; mix Avell with the other ingredients ; pour into the pan and place it imme- diately in the oven. Bake nearly an hour in a moderate oven. Pan Journey Cake.—Half pint rice, dessert spoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of milk, tAvo tablespoonfuls of fine rice flour ; boil the rice quite soft, and stir the butter in while hot. If the bread is wanted for breakfast, the rice must be boiled the night before ; and if wanted for tea it must be prepared in time for it to become cold before the other ingredients are mixed in. When ready to bake, stir in the milk and rice flour ; spread the mixture about half an inch thick, in a shalloAV pan well greased. Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Okra Soup.—Cut up in fine slices two soup plates of okra, and put into a digester with five quarts of water and a little salt—at nine o’clock. At ten o’clock, add your meat; at eleven, peel a soup plate and