50 RECIPES. tomatoes, boil these with the soup fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve. Note—Remove all the fat from the meat before putting it into the water, and pkimoli' what remains as soon as it rises. This is far more wholesome and relish- able than stock prepared some days beforehand. Stale meats are the same, even in soup. Vermicelli Soup.—Six ounces of vermicelli, two quarts of new milk, the yolks of four eggs, and one pint of cream. Blanch the ver- micelli by setting it on the fire in cold water ; when it boils, drain off the water, and put it into cold water; let it remain a few minutes, and then drain the water entirely from it; put it into a pan with the milk, and boil it; beat up the yolks of the eggs, and after gradually adding a pint of boiled cream, strain through a sieve. Take off the pan ; add the eggs, cream, a small lump of white sugar, and a tea spoonful of salt, and stir the soup on the fire till near boiling. Barley Broth.—Four ounces of Scotch barley, four ounces of onions, four ounces of oat-meal, or Indian meal, and two ounces' of butter. After washing the barley well, steep it in fresh water for twelve hours; set it on the fire in two quarts of water, adding the onions and a little salt, and boil gently for an hour and a quarter. INIelt the butter in a saucepan ; stir in the meal till it becomes a paste ; then add a little of the broth gradually, till it is a proper thickness to mix with the whole quantity ; stir well together till it boils, and mix with a little of the broth a drachm of celery seed, pounded ; stir well in the broth; simmer it gently a quarter of an hour longer, and serve. PORRIDGES. Wheat-meal Porridge,—Having boiled one quart of soft water, and mixed half a pound of meal in a little cold water, mix them to- gether, and boil for fifteen minutes, stirring it occasionally. Pour it into basins and let it stand for ten minutes. To be eaten with fruit, sugar or molasses, and bread. Indian-meal Porridge.—Make same as the Avheat-meal porridge, only that it must be cooked for nearly an hour, and be made thinner, to allow for the evaporation which comes from the boiling. Indian Farina Porridge.—To one pint of boiling water add four tablesuioonful of farina; mix and serve the same as the Avheat-meal porridge. Arrowroot Porridge.—Mix one ounce of prepared arrowroot with a tablespoonsful of cold water, then pour boiling Avater on it to make it the required thickness, stirring it well at the same time. A slice or two of lemon with a little sugar Avill be found an improvement. To be eaten with crackers or bread. Boiled Wheat Porridge.—Having soaked over night one pound of good wheat in pure soft water, strain the water off and add a quart of fresh ; stew it gently till quite soft. It may be eaten as wheat-mea j)orridge.