135 PRACTICAL DIETETICS. MEAT. Is not a large quantity of flesh meat necessary to the highest health ? Ans.—No doubt a large quantity of flesh meat is demanded by persons who eat mainly of fine bread, and the ordinary fare of the majority of people ; but much less will be found necessary with the diet commended in this work, and in many cases persons will find it a positive delight to avoid meat entirely. Still we do not advise this unless they choose wisely and well their food from among the very best articles used. Meat is generally considered necessary to maintain health and strength ; but this is largely the result of the false teach- ing of writers and the false education of the people. People eat too much meat. This taxes the excretory organs, renders the blood liable to be filled with impurities, which, if not eliminated, cause gout and other diseases. SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH. Are there any substitutes for flesh food which are equally healthful and nourishing ? Axs.—Yes. Eggs, cheese, and cream are good substitutes for flesh. They should not be eaten so constantly, but occasionally. The con- stant and daily use of eggs and cheese would overload the blood with nitrogenous matter and do harm. About one-third of the weight of an egg is solid nutriment. This is more than can be said of meat. There are no bones and tough pieces that must be laid aside. A good egg is made up of ten parts shell, sixty parts white, and thirty parts yolk. The white of an egg contains eighty-six per cent, of water, the yolk fifty-two per cent. The average weight of an egg is about two ounces. Practically, an egg is animal food, and yet there is none of the disagreeable work of the butcher necessary to obtain it. The vegetarians of England use eggs freely, and many of these men are eighty and ninety years old, and have been remarkably free from illness. A good egg is alive. The shell is porous, and the oxygen of the air goes through the shell and keeps up a sort of respiration. Eggs may be dried and made to retain their goodness for a long time, or the shell may be varnished, which excludes the air, when, if kept nt a proper temperature, they may be kept good for years. Good cheese is even more nutritious than eggs. Cheese varies much in its composition, but when properly made it contains about one-third water, one-third albuminous material, one-fourth fat, and about five per cent, of mineral matter. One-half of a pound of good cheese con- tains as much nitrogenous matter as a pound of the best meat, and one-third of a pound as much fat as a pound of average meat. Old cheese, however, is not wholesome, and should not be eaten. Very new cheese, on the other hand, is less easy of digestion. Cheese is difficult to keep in warm climates, and easily decays in all places un- less properly cared for. ^louldy and decayed cheese is unwholesome, but this can always be known by the taste. American cheese is not so good as English and Swiss, still the best American cheese is very good. The English working classes use bread and cheese largely as