49 EECIPE8. water, then add half a pint of cream or new milk ; put a small table- spoonful of butter into a plate where it will soften, and stir into it two spoonsful of flour, add to the soup, and boil five minutes. Drop- dumplings made with a little flour and cream, yeast and milk are an addition. Green-Pea Soup.—Take two quarts of green-peas, one small onion, and a sprig of parsley cut fine ; add two quarts of hot water, and boil slowly for half an hour, then add a pint of small new jiotatoes which have been peeled and laid in cold water an hour ; put in a table- spoonful of sugar and a little salt, boil till the potatoes are done, now atld a teacupful of cream or a pint of milk, boil a minute or two, and serve with small slices of toasted bread or gems cut in halves. Tomato Soup—Take two quarts of fresh, rorind tomatoes, scald and peel, without breaking; do not cut or fork them. Put into a j)orcelain kettle, or fire-proven stone vessel, add two quarts of boiling water, and a teaspoonful of salt, and set on the fire or in the oven, cover, and let them stew slowly three quarters of an hour. Mix two tablespoonsful of flour with a tablespoonful of butter, or a teacupful of good cream, which has been boiled, stir into the soup, and let it boil together ten minutes, and dish up with small thin slices of well-toast- ed bread. Be careful to let the tomatoes remain whole, as you would oysters. A teacupful of grated corn added to the soup when you put in the flour, etc., will be an excellent addition, and render the imitation of oyster soup more complete. Simmer the corn only ten minutes, if it is fresh and full of milk. Note.—We give you only one or two meat soups, and these with special refer- ence to tomatoes, Meat soups are well known in almost endless varieties, but good vegetable soups are scarce. Beep and Tomato Soup.—Take two pounds of red beef—a neck piece, or from the round ; carefully remove all the fat, and cut the meat into small bits; put into a stewpan with two quarts of cold water, and simmer slowly one hour, llemove all the scum as soon as it rises, and keep covered close. Scald until quite soft, one quart of nice ripe tomatoes, and press through a colander ; add to the broth from which you have removed the meat, and boil half an hour ; put in a sprig of sweet marjoram or thyme, then take two ears of swee- corn, and cut and scrape all the kernels from the cob, also two table spoonsful of flour and one of sugar, l)rowned but not burned, mix with half a teacupful sweet cream or milk ; add these ingredients and boil fifteen minutes. Season with a little salt and cayenne pepper. Note.—You will observe that all the ingredients of this soup require but little actual cooking. The pure nutriment of beef is found with rare cooking. Tomatoes lose their fine flavor by much boiling, and corn hardens at a certain period—fifteen or twenty minutes, if it is fresh and full of milk, is suflicient to cook corn. Another.—Make a soup of bones or bits of meat left from a roast, add a little cabbage, sweet potato, and parsley cut fine, boil till well done, then cut or grate a pint of green corn and half a dozen fresh