RECirES. 95 a half of tomatoes, and after straining add to the soup, through the colander ; then season with pepper and salt ; allow all the ingredients to boil until two o’clock, when it is fit to be served up. “ Every-Day ” Pudding.—Half a loaf of stale brown home-made bread soaked in a quart of milk ; four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour ; a little fruit, dried or fresh, is a great addition. Steam or boil three-fourths of an hour. Serve with the following sauce ; Butter, sugar, and water, thickened with a little cornstarch, and flavored with lemon juice and rind. Fancy Dish.—Take half a dozen eggs, make a hole at one end and empty the shells; fill them with blanc mange ; when stiff and cold take off the shells; pare lemon rind very thin, boil in water till tender, then cut in thin strips to resemble straw, and preserve in su- gar; fill a deep dish half full of jelly or nice cold custard, put the eggs in and lay the straws, nest-like, around them. A NICE Strawberry Dessert.—A nice dessert is made by filling coffee-cups loosely with strawberries, and pouring over them Graham- flour mush; or instead, thicken sweet boiling milk to a consistency which is thin enough to fill the interstices between the berries, and yet thick enough to be firm when cool. Turn out and serve up with cream and sugar. Eggs without Boiling.—Drop eggs into a sauce-pan of boiling water, which remove immediately from the fire. Let them remain in the hot water five minutes. Beans without Pork.—Some families seem not to know that baked beans are delicious without pork, if properly cooked and sea- soned. Boil a pot of beans until they are cooked thoroughly soft, take half for one day’s bean-soup, and use the other half a few days later for baked beans. If the beans are old drop in a small lump or half- teaspoonful of soda. When this water boils, turn it off, and supply its place with clean boiling water. After the beans have boiled in this an hour, we change the water again—sometimes three times, but never after the beans have begun to come to pieces. Set them where they will not boil too hard, and cook them four or five hours, when they are well softened and separated. Then we stir into this soup salt, and a cup of cream if we have it; if not, a tablespoonful or two of good butter. We take out half of the beans (if we have cooked enough for two meals) before seasoning the day’s portion, and some- times thin what is left for soup with hot water, and then put in the cream and salt, and boil and stir it all together. When we bake the reserved portion, we pour it into a large baking-dish or dripping-pan, stir in a spoonful of salt and a cup of cream, or creamy milk, and bit of butter, and bake an hour. I cannot believe that any one who tries it would prefer “pork and beans ” to this. The most common mis- take in cooking beans is to cook them too little. This is the cause of their flatulent tendency, and such result may be prevented by thor- ough cooking. The frequent changing of the water takes away the strong flavor which is disagreeable to many.