105 SIMPLE BEVERAGES FROM FRUITS. erally it agrees well witli most stomaclis. The following receipt for a mild ginger beer will not be amiss. To six gallons of pure soft water put eight pounds of loaf-sugar, the whites of three eggs, well beaten, and three ounces best ginger. Powder the ginger finely, and mix with a little water before adding it to the mass. Boil gently for three-fourths of an hour, removing mean- time the scum that rises to the surface. Let it cool, add the j nice of three large lemons and a table-spoonful of yeast. Now put it in a cask and bung it very tightly, and let it stand for about ten days, when it will be fit to use. Rhubarb Tea.—Boil two pounds of rhubarb stalks well sliced, for an hour in a quart of water, strain into a pitcher, add the juice of one lemon, and sugar to taste after it is cold. This makes a refreshing drink in the spring of the year, Apple Tea.—Peel, core, and quarter two pounds of apples, boil for half an hour in a quart of water, strain the liquor into a pitcher, add the juice of one lemon and loaf-sugar to taste. Dried Apple BxVrley Water.—Boil one pound of clean dried apples in one gallon of water for an hour. Boil a quarter of a pound of pearl barley one hour. Strain otf the juice of the apples, add the barley water, put it into uncorked bottles, and keep for use in a cool place. Apple Water.—Cut some very tart apples fine, pour over them boiling water, and let them simmer gently for half an hour. Strain off the liquor and sweeten to taste. Fig Water.—Boil a quarter of a pound of best preserved figs with a half ounce of ginger in two quarts of water. When reduced to a pulp, strain off and bottle for use. Barley Water.—Boil half a tea-cupful of the very best pearl barley in a quart of water till it is smooth, then strain it off into a mug, add the juice of a large lemon and loaf-sugar to the taste. The barley water should be strained through muslin before adding the lemon juice. Toast and Water.—Fill a quart-pitcher with boiling water. Drop into it a slice of bread toasted very brown. Let it stand till cold. Remember, drop tlie bread in instead of pouring the water over it, otherwise it will be cloudy instead of clear and beautiful. Fruit Juices.—The juice of the apple and pear, says Mr. Knight, may be used to great advantage in preparing a beverage. He has fre- quently, he says, reduced it by boiling to the consistence of a weak jelly, in which state it has remained several years without the slightest apparent change, though intentionally exposed to variation of temper- ature. A large quantity of the inspissated juice would take up but little space, and the addition of a few spoonfuls to a quart of water would at any time form a delicious, wholesome, refreshing drink, free from all intoxicating properties. Its cheapness would be greatly in its favor. On sea voyages it would be a great luxury. We sug«-o,st experiments with it in the field of domestic economy **