140 PRACTICAL DIETETICS. EATING WHEN TIRED. Is it injurious to eat a hearty meal while very tired ? Ans.—Yes, it is very injurious. Always arrange your labor so as to have a short resting-spell both before and after every hearty meal, especially if old or feeble. OATMEAL DRINKS. How is oatmeal drink made ? —This is highly recommended by those who have tested it. A writer says : “ Last year we attended a field trial of plows, and for a driiak in the field we had buckets of cold water with oatmeal stirred in, which we found to be both victuals and drink, and mighty refresh- ing.” A Scottish medical journal also says of oatmeal, that, in its raw state, when mixed with water, it is becoming a favorite drink. The brose of “ Auld Scotland ” is becoming a favorite dish—and we are glad to note this, because we believe it to be a healthy and muscle- forming nourishment. The hunters and trappers of the West, are substituting oatmeal in this form for parched Indian corn. I’he same brawny fellows, whose powers of endurance are proverbial, whose scorn of fatigue is known to all readers of natural history, have found out that a very acceptable drink is made by putting about two teaspoonfuls of oatmeal to a tumbler of water. This they—the hun- ters and trappers—aver to be the best drink they can use ; and it is at once nourishing, unstimulating, and satisfying. It is a good substitute for tea, coffee, or any form of intoxicating liquors, which produce so much harm. FOOD AND PROLIFICNESS. What food causes people to be most prolific ? Ans. It is said that the families of fishermen are largest and very healthy, but we think this may arise from the fact that they live largely out of doors and take a great deal of exercise, as well as eat fish. It was once thought that the reason why the Irish are so prolific, was because thy live so largely on potatoes, but in our opinion this is not true. Prolificness is an inheritance. Some races and families are so by nature, and others are the reverse. It depends partly on the health and vigor of the generative apparatus, partly on habit, partly on food, and, strange to say, too much food, especially when coupled with indolence, interferes with bearing children. Un- fortunately the poor are more prolific than the rich. This subject is more fully discussed in our little work, “ Parturition without Pain.” LARGE STOMACHS. Is it well for a child to have a large abdomen ? Ans.—It should not be abnormally large, but it should be much larger than many people think. Only a good-sized stomach is capable of digesting abundance of food to keep up a large supply of blood. Small stomachs and small lungs arc incomi)atible with high health and great powers. When children are kept on very concentrated food