139 PEACTICAL DIETETICS. BUTTER. Is butter a food—tbat is, does it nourish and strengthen the body ? Ans.—Butter is a food quite as much as meat. Indeed, there is more strength stored up in an ounce of butter than two ounces of the best lean meat; bur butter will not furnish material to build up the tissues of the body as bread and meat do. A man would starve on a butter diet in a very short time. Butter is a fat useful in the body to support animal heat and generate force, as coal and wood do under the boiler, and of some use in building muscular and nervous tissues. EATING TO PLEASE. When dining with friends, should we eat of all the dishes set before us to please our host, who good-naturedly urges us to take more than we want ? Ans.— “ ’Tis better, sir, I should you now displease, Than, by complying, next day lose my ease.” An ingenious and dextrously made excuse is always as acceptable as compliance. HYGIENIC COFFEE. How can hygienic coffee be made ? Ans.—What is called hygienic coffee may be made from rye, corn, sweet potatoes, peas, beans, etc., etc. It may be made by roasting these articles and treating them in about the same way that coffee is treated. As an occasional drink they are wholesome, and if well made, an agreeable beverage. BE AGREEABLE AT MEALS. You tell us to make ourselves agreeable and entertaining during our meals. Some of us have not the faculty of ready speech. What’s to be done in such a case ? Ans.—Every one can do something to add to the social life at the table. If one cannot talk, he can listen, or ask questions, and draw out others who can talk. Good listeners arc as necessary as good talkers. Never argue at the table ; but tell pleasant stories, relate or read anecdotes, and look out for the good of all. Sometimes a single anecdote from a paper starts a conversation that lasts during the meal time. A family table ought to be bright and cheerful, a sort of domestic altar, before which every one casts down his or her offering, great or small, of pleasantness and peace ; where, for at least a brief space in the day, all annoyances are laid aside, all stormy tempers hushed, all quarrels healed ; every one being glad and content to sit down at the same board, and eat the same bread and salt, making it, whether it were a rich repast or a dinner of herbs, (qually a joyful, almost a sacramental meal.