128 PEACTICAL DIETETICS. abundant and of good quality, still if they be not more varied tlian ft) my certain knowledge they often are, many a boy and girl must fail day after day to get those particular elements of nutrition which they specially require. The result with such boys and girls is that even in the midst of plenty they remain under-fed and imperfectly nourished, thus retarding if not arresting the due growth and develop- ment of their bodies, and strongly favoring the development of any inherited or any other constitutional unsoundness lurking within them. BRAIN FOOD. Does the man who labors with his brain require the same kinds of food as he who labors with his body ? Ans.—Dr. J. M. Winn, an eminent English physician, says ; “If we keep in view the difference between the structure of the nervous and muscular tissues, it becomes evident that a somewhat different kind of diet is required for the nutrition of the former from that of the latter. In order to develop and support the muscular organization, a large proportion of nitrogenous food is requisite ; not so when the object is to supply the waste of the more delicate and subtle tissue of the nerv- ous system. Fatty matter and phosphorus enter largely into the composition of the brain. It has been estimated that the former (brain wax, or brain fat, as it has been called), amounts to about one-third, and the latter (phosphorus) to one-twentieth or one-thirtieth of its solid substance. It is now generally believed that exertion of the will and reasoning powers cause an expenditure of the brain material, and a corresponding exhaustion of the nervous force. However, it must not be forgotten that prolonged bodily exercise exhausts the nervous force, as muscular contractions are commonly brought into action by nervous influence, hence the importance of a student avoiding exces- sive bodily efforts, which expend that nervous energy so essential for brain work. “ Large quantities of animal food and malt liquor conduce rather to somnolency than to mental activity. There is a common saying that ‘ flsh feeds the brain,’ which may depend on the phosphorus it contains. Certainly there can be no doubt that some sorts of fish, such as soles, whiting, plaice, etc., are peculiarly suitable to a weak digestion. I may incidentally observe that I have found a fish diet especially serviceable for those predisposed to consumption. “ The London correspondent of the Birmingham Morning News alludes to a new book that has recently appeared, containing remarks about the diet of certain literary men ; and he states that he is ac- quainted with a well-known writer who cleaves to oatmeal porridge when he is in working trim. In this respect the said writer imitates Gerald Massey, who swears by oatmeal ])orridge as a brain-inspiring compound. ‘ There is a deal of phosphorus in oatmeal,’ Mr. Massey says, ‘and phosphorus is brain. There is also a large amount of phosphorus in fish. Consequently I never miss having a fish dinner at least once a week, and take a plate of good, thick, coarse, well-boiled Scotch oatmeal every morning in my life.’ ”