RECIPES. 76 pieces into a sauce-pan with only a few spoonfuls of water, not more than four; cover close and let it cook gently so as not to scorch, until tlie water has all evaporated, and the pumiikin has cooked quite dry and of a rich, dark, orange color. While hot, sift it through a coarse sieve. Season only as much as you are needing for the day. For one large pie, one egg, one table-spoonful of molasses, four table-spoonfuls of condensed milk, or enough of new milk to make it as thin as you wish; or, if you have it, half milk and half cream, instead of con- densed milk. Sugar to suit the taste. Another. — Select a pumpkin which has a deep, rich color, and firm, close texture. Stew and sift in the ordinary manner; add as much boiling milk as will make it about one-third thicker than for common pumpkin pie. Sweeten with equal quantities of sugar and molasses, and bake about one hour in a hot oven. Noth.—Those who will try this method will be surprised to find how delicious a pie can be made without eggs, ginger, or spices of any kind. The milk being turned ooiling liot upon the pumpkin, causes it to swell in baking, so that it is as light and nice as though eggs had been used. Squash Pie.—This is even superior to pumpkin, as it possesses a richer, sweeter flavor, and is far preferable. It is made in precisely the same manner as pumpkin pie. Sweet Potato Pie.—Boil and sift through a colander, nice, ripe, sweet potatoes, add boiling milk, and make the same as pumpkin j)ie. Sweet Apple Pie.—Pare mellow, sweet apples, and grate them upon a grater. A very large grater is necessary for this purpose. Then proceed as for pumpkin pie. Note. — The four receipts last mentioned, are from Mrs. Jones’ Cook-book, a Avoi k of which thousands have been sold, and which has been republished in Eng- land. Rice Pie.—Take cold rice, cooked in milk ; add sufficient cream to make quite thin ; mash it with a wooden or silver spoon till free from lumps. Beat up four eggs very light—yolks and whites separately ; sweeten to suit your taste, and pour in the eggs—the whites last; stir well; cover a deep custard or pumpkin pie-plate with pastry, pour in the rice, and bake, but not long enough to make the custard watery. Rice pie should be made thick, and eaten when fresh, but not till after it is cold. Children are fond of it, and may be allowed as much as they wish. Cranberry Pie.—Stew a few good, ripe, sweet apples, and add an equal quantity of cranberries. Cover a deep plate with a crust, and fill even full ; roll the upper crust, and cut in strips half an inch wide and lay across the pie, leaving the spaces diamond-shaped, and bake. Strawberry Pie. — Place the under crust upon a deep plate, and the upper one—cut just the right size—on a fiat tin or sheet-iron ; prick to prevent blistering, and bake. Fill the deep dish while hot with strawberries, and cover with the flat crust. If tlie fruit is ratlier hard, replace in the oven till heated ; if quite ripe, the crust will steam them sufficiently.