MILK. Ill milk and less water, in which case she will dilute less. If the child manifests symptoms of malnutrition on this food, it is evident that its food should be rendered more nourishing. We are indebted to Dr, Corson for the demonstration of the practical utility of beginning our trials with pure cow’s milk, since the principal inconvenience which is found to occur is the regurgitation of a part of it; while, on the other hand, the infant runs the risk of starvation, or at least of numerous diseases, before any notice is taken of the deficiently nutritious quality of milk and water. If he succeeds in his object “ of directing attention to the fact that many thousands of children annually die prematurely from want of food,” he will have accomplished a great work ; but if he proposes to give all children pure cow’s milk, with- out reference to its agreement or disagreement with their stomachs, he will have fallen into the same error with those who confide ex- clusively in milk and water. Oatmeal Milk.—I cannot help in this connection printing the fol- lowing letter from one of my correspondents, regarding oatmeal milk for young children; which I am sure will help some mother to rear to health a child when she might otherwise fail. I may add, however, that it should not be used before the babe is three or four months old, and then a gradual substitute for the breast. She says: “ When my baby was five months old, for the sake of my own health, I weaned him from the breast. I gave him cream and water, with a little sugar. In two weeks’ time his bowels were so consti- pated that I fully realized that some change must be made in the food. I, therefore, made oatmeal gruel by boiling oatmeal in about twice the usual quantity of water for an hour and a half or two hours. When properly cooked, I poured it through a fine sieve. The part which passed through was, when cold, of the consistency of jelly. Then, in a quart cup, I mixed one half pint of thin cream and oatmeal gruel—about one gill of each—added one teaspoonful of white sugar, and filled the measure nearly full of boiling water. This food he relished, and in every way it agreed with him ; and if there ever was a child that grew any faster than mine did when fed with oatmeal and milk, I think it would be a wonder. People would say : ‘ How your baby grows,’ and in the same breath (when I told what his food w'as), would say: ‘ Why, you’ll starve him ! ’ But by putting in less water 1 found it was too hearty, causing him to vomit; and once in possession of the key to my child’s health nothing turned me aside. “ My child is now a year and a half old, his food is three parts milk and one part gruel. He is very large, strong and active, has twelve teeth, weighs thirty pounds, and in all the time has not lost an ounce of fiesh, even at the most trying time—warm weather. “That I am enthusiastic in regard to oatmeal milk should not seem strange, and I wish that, of the many mothers throughout the land, those who find it necessary to provide other than the natural food for their children would try my recipe. They would find doctors’ visits few and far between.” Recipe for Gruel.—One teacup oatmeal, two quarts of hot water. Boil two and a half hours. Strain through a fine sieve.