MILK. 108 being sufRcient to produce a marked cliange, tlie quantity and density of the urine suddenly falling, thirst and appetite disappearing, the skin becoming moist and perspiring, sleep improving.” Dr. Karell reports two hundred cases treated by milk alone, among which were many remarkable cures. For the aged, millt, or bread and milk, offers advantages worthy of their serious attention. The great Professor Black adopted it for many years before his death, because he thought it ought to be the natural food of an aged man in his second childhood. He died with a bowl of milk in his hand, so quietly that not a drop was spilled. Dr. George W. Balfour has found an exclusive milk diet to be very beneficial in asthma after it had resisted other means of cure for years. Boiled milk is digested in two hours; raw milk in two hours and a quarter. % Choice of Milk.—Coav’s milk differs greatly in quality, some being rich and other thin and watery. In choosing a family cow it is well to bear this in mind, and to select only those that are healthy and give the very best milk. They should also be fed on the best of food, and allowed pure soft water to drink, d'he practice of feeding cows on garbage, swill slops, distillery feed, and of keeping them confined in close, filthy, unventilated stables, is one which seriously deterio- rates the milk, and should ever be avoided. Those who live in cities cannot of course keep cows, and so they must depend on the market for their supply of milk. In large cities such cannot do better than to use condensed milk, if they can get it. It has been used in our institution for many years with very satis- factory results. In preparing it the animal odor is evaporated, and it can be made as rich as is desired. It may be diluted for babes if necessary. Of course we do not speak of the condensed milk put up in cans, but that prepared for supplying the market for immediate use. If condensed milk cannot be obtained, and you cannot keep your own cow, then insist on having the best article, and refuse to use that from distillery-fed cows, or that diluted with water. A little atten- tion to this subject will enable any one to secure a good article. It is the laxity of purchasers of food in not demanding the best that makes it 80 easy for the dealer to palm off adulterated and inferior articles upon thoughtless people. If the poor would do this, it would improve their own and their children’s health wonderfully. The milk supply of a city has a great deal of influence for good or evil on the health of the children. In England, this question is getting to be a very important one. The Food Journal says that “ perhaps the most serious and destructive change in the nutrition of the poor is their almost total privation of milk. Infantile sickness and mortality depend largely on this want.” There the occupation of mothers in factories and work- shops deprives many thousands of infants of their natural food— breast milk. PnEPARiNQ Cow’s MiLK FOR Babes.—III this connection I wish to give explicit du-ections for preparing artificial human milk for babes.