103 SIMPLE BEVERAGES FROM FRUITS. Lemon Whet,—Boil as much milk as you require, squeeze a lemon, and add as much of the juice to the milk as will make it clear. Mix with hot water, and sweeten to taste. Lemon Water.—Cut a fresh lemon into very thin slices, put them in a pitcher, and pour on one pint of boiling water. Let it stand till cold, sweeten to taste, and use. Milk Lemonade to keep a day or two.—Pare twenty-four large fresh lemons as thin as possible ; put eight of the rinds into three quarts of hot but not boiling water, and let it stand three hours. Rub tine sugar on the rind of the others, to absorb the essence. Put it in a china bowl, and squeeze the j uice from the lemons over it, after which add a pound and a half of fine sugar. Now put the water to the above, and add three quarts of boiling milk. Mix and pour through a jelly bag. Use the day after made. SIMPLE DRINKS FROM VARIOUS SUBSTANCES. American Temperance Beverage.—Twelve lemons, one quart of ripe raspberries, one ripe pineapple, two pounds best refined sugar, three quarts of pure soft cold, but not iced, water. Peel the lemons very thin, squeeze the juice of all over the peel, let it stand a few hours, add the two pounds of refined sugar, mash the raspberries with half a pound of same sugar, cut the pineapple, after paring it, in very thin slices, and cover them with sugar. Strain the lemon-juice, crush the raspberries, press the pineapple, put the lemon-juice in a bowl, add the three quarts of water, add the crushed berries and pine- apple, stir all together till the sugar is dissolved and it is ready to serve. This makes a delicious beverage. Cranberry Drink.—Mash a tea-cupful of clean fresh cranberries in a cup of cold water. Boil a large spoonful of oatmeal and a slice of a lemon in two quarts of water ; add the cranberries and as much sugar as will sweeten to the taste. Boil for half an hour and strain. Egg Tea.—It is a common but injurious practice for women to take a cup of hot tea on an empty stomach when tired and exhausted. An egg broken into a weak cup of tea, well beaten and mixed with a glass of cold sweet milk, is much less injurious, and really nourish- ing. Tamarind Water.—Boil an ounce of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins in three quarts of water, until nearly a third has evaporated. Pure tamarind water is much used in fevers, and is considered a cool and refreshing beverage. It is made by dissolving the pulp in boiling water,' straining and cooling, or it may be prepared with barley water and treated in the same way. Strawberry Drink.—Boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water till it makes a syrup. Add a pint of strawberry juice, and boil gently for an hour. Cool, and bottle in well corked bottles for use. Add water to taste. It is a delicious spring drink.