109 lUILK. It is well known that cow’s milk is far richer than human milk. It contains more curd, more cream, more mineral matter, and less water. Compare the following table with the one at the beginning of this paper. One pound of human milk contains : Sugar 4 drachms and 40 grains. Butter 3 “ “ 30 “ Curd 3 “ “ 30 “ Mineral salts 41 “ Water 14 ounces and 41 “ It may not be well known why cow’s milk so often disagrees with babes. A principal reason is that in the stomach the curd forms in harder lumps and is not easily acted on by the gastric juice, whereas human milk forms a flocculent soft curd which readily absorbs the gastric juice, and is acted on by it with great ease. ■^’he question is how to modify cow’s milk to make it suitable for a new-born infant; it having been found to disagree in its pure state. There is in the first jilace too much casein, or cheese, in cow’s milk, and the child cannot digest it; to reduce it to the true proportion, nearly twice as much water as milk is necessary ; to be exact, it must be eighteen parts of water to ten parts of milk; but this would reduce the quantity of butter also, without which the child would not thrive. The milk to be diluted must therefore contain more butter than ordi- nary milk, which must be obtained by setting aside, say, three quarts of milk, and at the end of four or five hours remove the upper quart ; the upper third of any quantity of milk containing fifty per cent, more butter than the ordinary milk of the cow. The same result can be obtained by taking the “ strippings,” or latter part of the cow’s milk- ing. This milk, when diluted with one and a half parts water, and properly sweetened, resembles ordinary human milk. Various Dilutions for various Ages.—Mother’s milk for new- born babes is so peculiar as to have got a special name, colostrum. It gradually loses these peculiarities. For colostrum, or milk prepared for the first two weeks of a child’s life, must contain more butter—the upper eighth, instead of the upper third, must be used. From two quarts of milk, which has stood four or five hours, skim off carefully half a pint; or the last tenth of milk just stripped from a cow. For example, if a cow gives five quarts, the last pint may be used. This milk must be largely diluted with water, according to the following schedule. SCHEDULE. Whole Age. Milk. Water. Quantity. Gills. Gills. Gills. to 10 days H .... 44 to 20 days H 4i .... 6 to 30 days (5 ... 81; to H months 3 C|- .... 9} to 2 months 3^ ....: 7 .... 10.^ to 3-i months 4 n .... in