39 DIGESTION. ence of an acid is enormous,—one part of it being capable of converting 60,000 parts of albumen into the con- dition before mentioned. It always requires the presence of a small amount of free acid to produce this effect. So im- portant is pepsin as an agent of digestion, that a large business has grown up in England and France, and also in America, in preparing it from the stomachs of calves and pigs to help the stomachs of poor mortals when overtaxed and incapable of digesting sufficient food for the demands of the body. A really good article of this pepsin is often very serviceable and may be considered a hygienic or physio- logical remedy. Pepsin is rendered inert by heat or cold, hence either very hot or very cold drinks during and after a meal are hurtful. The stomach absorbs and carries into the circulation con- siderable of the most fluid portion of the partly digested food and drink. A large portion, however, passes from this organ into the small intestines, in the first portion of which it meets with other digestive fluids; first of which may be mentioned is the pancreatic juice, the function of which is to digest the oils and fats. It has been estimated that nearly nine pounds of pancreatic fluid are secreted daily in a healthy person. This contains one pound of solid matter and nearly an ounce and a half of pancreatin, which is its active principle. The true action of the pancreatic fluid is to break up the oily and fatty matter of food into minute particles, so that instead of floating on the surface it is converted into a milk-like fluid, which can be absorbed through the walls of the intestines into the lacteals. This pancreatic fluid also acts like the saliva and converts the remaining starch into sugar. Another fluid which meets the food in the intestines is the bile from the liver. Nearly four pounds are secreted daily. Its use is not yet well known. The intestinal secretion is small in quantity, there being less than half a pound daily, but it is a powerful aid to