rRACTICAL DIETETICS. 133 FASHIONABLE DINNERS. Are late fasliionable dinners objectionable ? Ans.—There can be little doubt that the very late dinner hour pat- ronized by modern society is highly unnatural, undesirable, and per- nicious. The fatigues undergone by fashionable folks during the day do not tend to whet appetite—rather they serve to blunt ita cravings —besides, the stonfach of such is unfitted from properly fulfilling its functions. Of course tempting viands are presented on the dining- table, prepared by practised and skillful cooks, while the pleasures of love, friendship, and social converse become added as incentives. All the more dangerous, we should say. It is possible to cloy the stomach, and yet derive no benefit therefi’om, but contrariwise. Better be in the condition of the Cambridge students of yore, and “ diet upon fast- ing every day ” than cause the human system to receive more than it can digest. “ I restrained myself,” observes Bacon, “ to so regular a diet as to eat flesh but once a day, and a little at a time, without salt or vinegar.” FOOD FOR GOUT. What is the best food for gout ? Ans.—Temperance at the table. Dr. Cheyene said, nearly two hundred years ago : “Three pints of milk and six ounces of bread, daily, are the only certain remedies for gout. Let two people be chosen, as like as pos- sible, both suffering from the same cause. Give the most promising patient the most approved nostrums, etc., and let the other have only the simplest attention, but placed under a strict diet, the lightest and least, milk and seed diet, and I will venture reputation and life that my method cures soonest.” CHESTNUTS. Are chestnuts wholesome ? Ans.—Yes. In New York they are mainly eaten roasted or boiled, but where the teeth are sound, so they can be masticated thoroughly, they may be eaten raw, if preferred, by the young and those who have good stomachs. POTATOES. Are potatoes a good article of food for sedentary people ? Ans.—Potatoes are more important than any other root used for food, and, on the score of their economy, are advantageously used in large quantities by those who work hard out of doors, though their nutritrive value is not great except the starch they contain. They are, however, easily cultivated, easily kept, easily cooked, and easily digested ; but being wanting in fat and nitrogenous matter, they re- quire to be eaten in conjunction with those kinds of food which will supply the deficiency. They should bo white and mealy. Sedentary people who have weak digestion had better not eat very largely of potatoes, especially new ones, or those that are very old. During the