A WINTER IN FLORIDA; Or, Oliseryiliots «i lie Soil, Climate, ail ProJictloas ol our Semi-Tropical stale With Sketches of the Principal Towns and Cities in Eastern Florida, to which is added a brief nistorical Summary, together with Uinta to the Tourist, Invalid, and Sportsman, bt ledyard bill. Blnstrated with Maps and beautiful Wood-cuts. In speaking of this book. The New- Yorlc Tribune says: “ Mr. Bill has fur Bished m this neat little volume a great amount and variety of the sort of in- fonnalion which people visiting Florida for health or amusement, or with a view to permanent settlement, are most likely to require. He has paid du« attention to the soil, climate, productions, and naturai advantages of the State; he gives clear and minute directions about routes, and sketches the aspects of social life.” The thousands who would know all about Florida before going there will find this book just the thing, whether they are InvalidB, Tourists, Sportsmen, or those seeking a Home away from cold Winters in a delightful clime. The following condensed table of contents gives a general view of the work: What to Expect and How to Glo; Early History of Florida; Miscellaneous Topics; Up the St. Johns to Jacksonville; Home of Harriet Beecher Stowe; The Celebrated Spring at Green Cove; Central Florida and the Upper St. Johns; Ali^tor Shooting; The Old City of St. Augustine; Climate and its Effect on ^valids • Character and Kind of Soil; The Orange, Lemon, and Lime; The Social Condition of the People; Sketches of Jacksonville, Green Cove, Picolata, Enterprise; Abundance of Fish and Wild Game; The Mocking Bird’s Home; Incidents of Travel; Hints to those Going to Florida, The work contains about 250 pages 12mo, beautifully illustrated with cup i ’d full-page cuts, and retails at $1.25. Copies sent to any address by mail OD receipt of thfi price. THE TREE OF LIFE; Or, Human Degeneracy, its Nature and Remedy. By Isaac Jeknings, M.D. The author of this book was for thirty years an Allopathic physician, but becoming convinced that medicines did more harm than good, he substituted placebos of bread pills and colored water in his practice, and the record of his eases show that the latter treatment was eminently succesful in removing dis- eases. It contains the following table of contents: Man's Spiritual Degeneracy; Physical Depravity; Physiological and Psycho- logical Reform; Remedy for Man’s Spiritual Degeneracy; Man’s Physical Degeneracy; Constitution of Human Physical Life; Vital Economy, or Or- ^nic Laws of Life; Source and Mode of Transmission of the Principle of Human Physical Life; Predisposition to Disease; Hereditary Diseases; Mode of Renovation of Impaired and Feeble Vital Machinery; Analysis of a Few of the Most Prominent Symptoms of Disease; Law of Contagion and General Causation; Medical Delusion; Remedy for Man’s Physical Degeneracy; General Directions Resumed; Specific Directions—Croup- Dysentery—Cholera ; Final and Efiectual Remedy for Man’s Physical Dfr generacy. Price, by mail, $1.00. IS