RECIPES. 5G too stiff for griddle cakes, add more water. If gems are preferred in stead of cakes, the addition of a little more flour is all that is required to produce an extra article. Oatmeal Bread.—One quart fresh oatmeal, two quarts of water, let stand half a day or over night. When ready to hake, add one quart of fine, or Graham flour, half a cup of sugar, one teaspoonful line salt, two teaspoonsful of baking powder ; mix with a spoon. No kneading is required. If too stiff, add water. Corn Cakes.—Three cups of corn meal, one cup of Graham flour, two teaspoonsful of cream yeast powder sifted together, one cup of cream, and half a cup of milk, one egg well beaten ; stir altogether well and quickly ; heat your gem irons hot; butter and fill; bake with a brisk heat. Gem tins or forms do not need to be heated before fill- ing, they may be oiled and filled on the table, and put into a quick oven. Graham Griddle Cakes.—Into one pint of Graham flour and half pint Indian meal mix thoroughly two teaspoonsful of cream yeast and half teaspoonful salt, beat up well one egg and mix with one pint cold water, into which mix thoroughly the flour as prepared, and fry at once. Gold Medal Corn Cakes.—Mix two heaping teaspoonsful of cream yeast and half teaspoonful of salt thoroughly through one pint of In- dian meal and half pint of sifted flour, beat well one egg and mix in one tablespoonful of brown sugar, half pint milk or cold water, and stir in the meal as prepared, to the consistency of a thick batter, steam until half done in a three pint basin, and finish by baking in a hot oven, or drop into hot cup or gem pans well buttered, and bake in a hot oven. Corn Gems.—Mix two heaping teaspoonsful of cream yeast and half teaspoonful of salt thoroughly through one and one half pound sifted In- dian meal; stir the meal as prepared slowly into one pint (more or less) of sweet milk or cold water, so as to make a very thin batter, place in hot gem tins or cups, let them stand five minutes in a warm place and bake in a very hot oven. Yankee Strawberry Short Cake.—Mix two heaping teaspoonsful of cream yeast and half teaspoonful of salt thoroughly through one quart of sifted flour, beat well one egg, and mix in two tablespoonsful melted butter, one of sugar, nearly a pint of sweet milk or cold water, mix in the flour as prepared, as thin as convenient to handle, knead but little, let stand five minutes in a warm place, bake in a quick oven ; cut into three layers, place sugar and strawberries between and dust upper crust with sugar. SquASH Cakes.—Mix Graham flour with half its bulk of stewed squash, or pumpkin, and add milk enough to make a thick batter, about a cup of milk to each cup of squash. Put in one teaspoonful cream yeast, mixing it well with the flour. Cook on a griddle.