148 PKACTICAL DIETETICS. poverty must be eradicated. It can be done partially by such foods as are needed to build up a strong healthy body and carry on all its func- tions. Many physicians think that the disuse of fat is a cause of con- sumption, and they prescribe cod-liver oil, not as a medicine, but as a food, and, in many cases, it has proved useful. We think, however, that it is the sedentary and unnatural life people lead that has most to do in causing so much consumption, and that with this sedentary life comes a feeble condition of body and brain favorable to the disease. A wise physical education and abundant wholesome nourishment would dissipate half the consumption in the world, and the other half would soon be banished by some other means. Consumption is a dis- ease to be avoided, not cured. INSUFFICIENT NOURISHMENT. What are the effects of insufficient nourishment? Ans.—Insufficient nutriment weakens the mind as well as the body. Many writers place poor diet at the head of the causes that weaken attention and debilitate all the faculties of the mind. Thus we often see that disease which wastes the body enfeebles the mind also; though this is not always the case, for sometimes the brain does not diminish as the other parts of the body do. APPETITE AND WORK. Can a person with a poor appetite do much hard work ? Ans.—Pavy says that a falling off of the appetite indicates a dimin- ished capacity to labor, A farmer was once asked why he paid liis hands so much, replied, it was economy to pay them well, so they could buy sufficient fo^. One might as reasonably expect much labor from a meagre diet as much fire from a little Avood. A good appetite is gen- erally synonymous with health and ability to do much labor. Great workers, whether with body or brain, or both, are usually liberal eat- ers. LaAvyers and ministers are apt to be good eaters. They should eat Avisely as Avell as liberally, otherAvise, dyspepsia Avill be the result. The old notion that great thinkers are small eaters is incorrect, except in the case of those who otherAvise live very quiet and inactive lives. GREEN PEAS. Are green peas digestible and wholesome ? Ans.—Peas, Avhen eaten green, are more digestible, but less nour- ishing than Avhen in the mature state. In the latter case they need slow and prolonged cooking before they are fit for the table. When old they should be soaked for some hours previous to boiling. From the large amount of nitrogenous matter and starch in their composi- tion, they form a valuable and cheap article of diet. THE SWEET POTATO. Is the sweet potato very nutritious and Avholesome ? Ans.— The esculent properties of this tuber depend very much upon the conditions under Avhich it Avas groAvn. Perhaps no vegetable is so greatly modified in its character by variations of soil and climate. To