SIMPLE BEVERAGES FROM FRUITS. 102 LEMONADES. Lemonade from Preserved Lemon Juice.—Preserve your juice when lemons are plenty and cheap, by adding one pound of refined sugar to each pint of juice, stirring the mixture till dissolved, when it should be bottled. Put a teaspoonful of salad-oil on the top to keep out the air, then cork closely. When wanted for use, apply a hit of cotton to the oil to absorb it. To a goblet of water add sufficient of this juice to suit the taste. Every family should preserve lemon juice in this way for times of need. If hot lemonade is desired, use hot instead of cold water. Tea Lemonade,—To a cup of very weak cold tea add the juice of half a lemon. It makes a pleasant beverage for old people who use tea. It is not desirable for the young. Pineapple Lemonade. — Peel twelve fresh lemons very thinly, squeeze the juice from them ; strain out the seeds ; pour on the peel a little hot water ; let it stand a little while to infuse, covering closely. When cool, strain this water into the lemon-juice, adding a pound of loaf sugar. Put the whole into a decanter to be kept cool for present use. Use two tahlespoonfuls for a glass of lemonade. To add to the delicacy of the beverage, add a slice of pineapple to each glass. To add to the appearance, add a thin slice of lemon. Cool, delicious, wholesome. Orange and Lemonade.—Peel one large fresh lemon and six fresh oranges. Cover the peel with boiling water, and let it infuse in a closely-covered dish. Boil one pound of sugar in a pint of water, till a syrup is formed, skimming off any impurities, strain the peel-water, add it to the syrup when cold, and add the juice strained, stir well, and add cold water till it makes a pleasant drink. These methods of making drinks are more troublesome than the common way, but the result in the end is more satisfactory. Common Lemonade.—Cut three large fresh lemons in very fine slices, taking out the pips. Add half a pound of white sugar and about two quarts of water. Bruise well together and stir, and it is ready for use. Hot Lemonade.—Hot lemonade is often desirable in winter, when the body has been exposed to cold and is chilly. It is made the same as cold lemonade, except by using hot instead of cold water. English Lemonade.—Pare a number of lemons, according to the quantity of drink you wish to make. Pour -boiling water on one quarter of the peel, and let it infuse. Boil your sugar to the con- sistency of a rich syrup, adding the white of an egg whipt in. When it boils pour in a little cold water to stop it, then let it boil again, when the pan should be taken off to cool and settle, skimming off any scum that comes to the top. AVhen settled, pour off the syrup into the peel water, now add the juice and as much water as is necessary to make a rich drink. Strain through a fine jelly bag.