52 EECIPES first, to be sure that it is perfe<;tly clean, secondly, sifting enlivens and aerates the flour, and makes both mixing and rising easier and quicker; a clean, white cloth to cover the dough, and a woollen blanket to keep the dough of even temperature while rising; baking pans, deep and shallow, a large, strong spoon for stirring, and a little melted suet or fresh butter for oiling the pans ; never use poor butter. If you want shortening, rich milk or cream scalded and cooled will answer the ];ur- pose and be most wholesome. But thorough kneading is better still, and should always be done effectually. Scalding a portion of the flour makes a sweeter bread and speeds the work. Water, milk, or butter— milk may be poured boiling hot oir a quart or two of the flour, stirring well, and cooling to a moderate temperature before adding the yeast— this makes the sponge. Scalded flour always makes a little darker bread, unless we iise buttermilk, which makes a rich, creamy, white bread. Yeast is fermented flour or meal—the first stages of decomi>o- sition or decay. U nderstanding this, every baker will comprehend the necessity of regulating the extent of the fermentation with the great- est care; for a sponge or bread fermented or “ raised ” too long, is de- composing, spoiling—actually rotting I This is the language of an ex- ])erienced English baker to us only a few days ago, during a talk about the delicate, foamy loaves “ yeasted to death,” which so many families are eating and calling “the staff of life,” quite discarding the linn, sweet, substantial, home-made loaf which our mothers and grand- mothers kneaded with their own skilled hands. Bread-making should stand at the head of domestic accomplishments ; since the health and happiness of the family depends incalculably upon good bread ; and there comes a time in every true, thoughtful woman’s experience when she is glad she can make nice, sweet loaves, free from soda, alum, and other injurious ingredients, or an earnest regret that she neglected or was so unfortunate as not to have been taught at least what are the requisites of good bread-making. Yeast.—Dry yeast or yeast cakes are more convenient and less liable to taste in the bread than bakers’ yeast. Two or three times a year there should be a fresh supply of yeast cakes prepared and carefully put in a dry place. Yeast cakes are manufactured and sold, some of which are very reliable. To make dry yeast, steep for half an hour a handful of fresh hops in a quart of boiling water. Sift two quarts of flour in an earthen or stone pan, and strain into the flour the boiling lioj) tea. Stir well and let it cool, when luke\yarm add a cent’s worth of baker’s yeast or a cupful of good home-made yeast, and put in a tablespoonful of brown sugar, a tablespoonful of ginger, a teaspoonful of salt, mix thoroughly and let it rise. It is best to prepare this sponge over night, and early in the morning it will be rounded up and light, and give you all day, which should be sunny and breezy, to make and dry the yeast cakes. Now mix into the sponge as much good corn meal as will make a stiff, firm dough, knead it Avell and make it into a long, round roll three or four inches in diameter. Cut it into slices half an inch thick, spread a clean cloth or clean paper on a board and lay the cakes on and put into a light, airy place to dry. Turn them several times during the day, and speed the drying as fast as possible, as the fermentation goes on while they remain moist. When dry put