129 PEACTICAL DIETETICS. To tliis it may be added that the best diet for brain workers who take a proper care of their health is brown bread, cream, fresh butter, oatmeal, eggs, fresh cheese (if it agrees), fish, and a moderate amount of meat. Oysters may be used freely in their season, and fruits should not be omitted. There should be variety and change as the season and health require. APPLES AS FOOD. Do you recommend apples as a portion of the regular diet ? Ans.—Yes, quite as much as potatoes. Many persons do not value apples sufficiently as an important article of diet. Besides containing a large amount of sugar, mucilage, and other nutritive matter, this fruit contains vegetable acids, aromatic qualities, etc., which act powerfully in the capacity of refrigerants, tonics, and antiseptics, and when freely used at the season of mellow ripeness prevent debility, indigestion, and avert, without doubt, many of the “ills which flesh is heir to.” The operators of Cornwall, England, consider ripe apples nearly as nourishing as bread, and far more so than potatoes. In 1810, which was a year of much scarcity, apples, instead of being converted into cider, were sold to the poor ; and the laborers asserted that they could “ stand their work ” on baked apples without meat; whereas a potato diet required either meat or some other substantial nutriment. The French and Germans use apples extensively, as do the inhabit- ants of all European nations. The laborers depend upon them as an article of food, and frequently make a dinner of sliced apples and bread. There is no fruit cooked in as many different ways in our country, nor is there any fruit whose value, as an article of nutriment, is so great. An old gentleman recently stated to us that every fall he used to have a severe sickness, but since he bought, during the season, a barrel of good apples, for himself alone, and ate the whole barrel in two or three months, he had every year saved himself from this sick- ness without wanting a doctor. Two good apples eaten before or soon after breakfast are an almost sure cure for constipation. OIL OF ALMONDS. Is oil of bitter almonds injurious if used to flavor foods ? Ans.—Nearly all the oil of bitter almonds used in this country con- tains a very small amount of prussic acid, and for this reason it is in- jurious, as this is a powerful poison. Taylor, in his Medical Juris- prudence, says it is a disgrace that such substances are allowed to be sold as flavors to foods. Confectioners use it in the preparation of food, and it is largely used in domestic cookery. So powerful is it that a single drop will flavor a large amount of cake. The artificial almond oil is made from nitro-benzole, a product of the distillation of coal tar.