PRACTICAL DIETETICS. 134 winter and spring potatoes begin to grow old and decay, when they become particularly unwholesome. Never eat one of these. If there is any taint about them, any bad taste or smell, never put them in your stomach. In the city they are exposed so much to cold, and heat and light, and get so bruised, that they are never so good as when they come from the farmer’s cellar. While on this subject Ave will give our readers a receipt for raising wholesome and delicious potatoes. Choose a soil that is a dry and sandy loam if possible ; but any soil will do except where it is positively wet. With a plough mark out your furrows three and a half feet apart, and eight or ten inches deep. Now fill this furrow four inches deep with thoroughly rotten oak tan bark, or chip manure, on which is a good sprinkling of salt. Over this spread the soil half an inch thick, and plant the best varieties of potatoes. Strictly follow this rule, and nutritious and delicious potatoes will be the result. MID-DAY HEARTY MEALS. Is a hearty meal in the middle of the day a good thing for a literary person who expects to write in the afternoon ? Ans.—No. The dinner should be light, or delayed till the work is done. Intense brain work cannot go on at the same time the stomach is strongly taxed in digesting food. EATING GRAPE SEEDS, Etc. In eating grapes, apples, cherries, and other fruits, may one safely swallow the stones or seeds ? Ans.—It is best not to do it. No good comes from it, and some- times great danger. A person, for instance, who eats a pound of Catawba grapes and swallows the seeds, takes into the stomach four large hard stones to each grape. Now count the grapes to a pound and see how many there are. Now collect the stones, or seeds, to- gether, and see what a pile it makes ! These go rasping through the bowels like so many gravel stones, causing piles, ulceration, obstruc- tions, etc MOULDY BREAD. Is there any danger in eating mouldy bread ? Ans.—Yes, several cases of poisoning have been observed by the use of mouldy bread. Johier has signalized the poisoning of three animals which had eaten mouldy bread. WesterholT has made known the case of two children who had taken rye bread containing the mucor mucedo, the most common species of mould. The mould com- monly found in bread is the Ascophora mucedo, a species of minute fungi closely allied to the mucor mucedo named above. This last is the kind that is often found plentifully on ripe fruit, preserves, etc., and when observed should be removed at once, not only because of its deleterious nature, but also for the reason that it materially hastens the ])rogress of decay.