FUNCTIONS OF FOOD. 9 than clothing or fire. It furnishes the fuel which, consumed or burnt in the body, maintains a comfortable temperature. 4. The last and most wonderful property of food is to fur- nish to the body strength. Strength comes in no other way. When plants grow they store up the energy of the sunshine, and when we consume these plants, that energy is transferred to our bodies. It manifests itself in many ways. First, in the form of motion, the ability to move from place to place, or to move other things from one place to another. Then in the form of sensation, feeling, seeing, hearing, and thinking. The ability to do any or all of these things is conferred by our food. Thought, motion, heat, as manifested in the body, are all conferred by food. The body has the peculiar power of abstracting these things from bread and meat. Go without food, and all these functions of the body gradually die away, and life becomes extinct. Perhaps this point may be made more clear by an illustration. You give your child a good hickory bow and arrow. He bends the bow on its string, adjusts the arrow and pulls the string back a few inches. Now what has he done ? Why simply stored up in the bow a part of the strength of his arm. But how did he get that strength ? The sunshine of last summer stored it up in the bread, meat, and potatoes he ate for breakfast. His body has the power to unfasten this force and apply it to bending the bow. When he lets go the string the arrow flies away, and the force is, so far as he is concerned, lost. The food we eat does for us what the coal does for the engine on the railroad train, it furnishes the motive power, only the body is a living machine and can think and feel, which the engine cannot do. Now we see why we eat. It is, first, to increase the size of the body; second, to supply the waste or loss by the daily wear and tear; third, to maintain a proper degree of warmth for the body, and fourth, to supply the energy by which we move, think and feel.