KEOIPES SOUPS. Soups are often complicated and expensive, requiring much money, time, and attention to prepare them. These difficulties are avoided in the following recipes, and a few trials will enable any one of ordinary understanding, who will follow the directions, to produce cheap, wholesome, and agreeable soups, without shins, knuckles, scrags, bacon, or drippings. Split Pea Soup.—Put one pint of split peas, which have been previously soaked in cold water four hours, into two quarts of pure soft water. Let them boil for one hour, then add one carrot, one par- snip, one turnip, two onions, a small head of celery, and a little mint, all cut small, and boil the whole another hour. Strain the soup from the vegetables, and thicken it with a little Indian meal, previously mixed in cold water ; boil the whole for ten minutes more, and serve in a tureen with toasted or plain wheat-meal bread. Mix the vege- tables well, and put them into a mould or a basin, and then into a vegetable-dish, and serve it with steamed or baked potatoes. Salt moderately. Bean Soup.—Wash and pick over one pint of white beans ; steep them twenty-four hours in pure soft water, put them into a stew-pan (earthen and enameled is best), set them on the fire in two quarts of water, let them boil for two hours, then add two onions, one parsnip, one carrot, a little parsley and thyme cut small, a little cold boiled rice, and a little salt. Boil the whole gently for another hour, and serve it the same as pea soup. Salt to taste. Barley and Bread Soup.—Take three ounces of barley, one and a half ounces of stale bread-crumbs, one and a half ounces of butter, one-half ounce of salt, and one-quarter ounce of parsley. Wash and steep the barley for twelve hours, in one-half pint of water, to which a piece of carbonate of soda, the size of a pea, has been added ; then pour off the water not absorbed, and add the crumbs of stale bread, three quarts of boiling water, and the salt. Digest these in a salt- glazed covered jar, in the oven, or boil them slowly in-a well-tinned covered pan, for from four to six hours, adding the chopped parsley, with the butter, thirty minutes before the expiration of the time of boiling.