93 RECIPES. sugar. Black currant jelly is considered very beneficial in diarrhoea, and other diseases of like nature. Giiape Jam.—Slip the skins ofT from the puli^s and put them into an earthen dish ; put the pulps into a porcelain kettle over the fire, cover them, and bring them to a boil, being careful not to burn them ; boil and stir them till the pulps are broken and the seeds are separated ; remove from the fire, and let the seeds settle to the bottom of the ket- tle ; then pour off the juice or strain it through a colander, and put back into the kettle ; add the pulps and their weight in best brown sugar ; simmer slowly, stirring frequently for an hour ; put up as you would fruit in glass cans. If you cook it long enough to keep without being air-tight, the flavor of ■^lie grape Avill be spoiled. Plums and late Cherries are excellent fruits for jams, light preserv- ing, and canning. Both of these fruits retain their own delicious flavor better if the seeds are left in. They are particularly relishable with farinaceous food. Jam and Jelly.—The fruit that comes from the Aunes or canes latest in the season makes the poorest jelly. If currants hang long upon the bushes, they lose most of their jelly-making property. They need to be used as soon as possible after gathering. One who desires clear, fine-flavored jelly Avill not sqvieeze the jelly-bag if it be of loose material. Fine flannel is best for this purpose, and when this is used some pressure is alloAvable ; but Ave wish to strain the juice not only free from stems, skins, and seeds, but free from all fine particles. Raspberry Jam.— One pound of sugar to each pound of berries, and nearly a pint of currant juice. Put the sugar and berries together in a pan over the fire, and Avith potato-masher, or AAmoden spoon, keep mashing and stirring them constantly to prevent burning. When they are Avell mashed, add the currant-juice, and boil briskly, still stirring it carefully. Just before it actually boils skim it Avell. Let it boR about three-quarters of an hour to bring it to the right consistency. It is best to put it up in cups, boAvls, or fruit-jars, as it does not keep so AA^ell after being disturbed. CoA'er the cups AAothfirm paper A’arnished Avith Avhite of egg, and jiressed closely around over the edges of the cups. Jam should be kept in a cool, dry place. Grape Jelly.—Put the grapes in a jelly-pan with a very little water; simmer on the fire till quite soft; then, strain through a col- ander or flannel bag; when the juice is all run out, measure, and alloAV fully one pound of loaf sugar to every pint of juice : boil till it jellies ; Avhen it has boiled tAventy minutes, try a little in a saucer. It should be Avatched for fear of boiling OA'er. Common sugar may be used, but the jelly Avill not keep so long. Barberry Jelly.—Scald the berries on the stems, and squeeze them through a thin cloth or flannel. Take one pound of sugar to one pound of juice. Boil together half an hour. Try a spoonful of the juice in a teacup of ice-A\'ater; if it sinks to the bottom in a solid form, the jelly has come—if not, boil a Avhile longer. Barberry Jam is excellent if made by cooking and stirring with the berries a quantity of good sAveet apples. Boil till the apples are thoroughly cooked and mixed, then can in glass cans.