EECIPES. 60 will take half an hour to hake. If made of red wheat it must be stift’er aud baited longer,. Good Unleavened Biiead.—Take half the flour you intend using, and pour on boiling milk (be sure it boils); have it about the consist- ency of batter that you would have for making pancakes ; let this stand till cool enough to work ; then knead in the rest of your flour, just sutliciently stiff to mold on a board. One hour in a middling hot oven is suflicient for baking. Dk. Jenkins’s Graham Crackers.—Procure the whitest aud cleanest wheat (Canada wheat is best), have the crackers made by a baker. Mix with nothing but pure, soft water, and thoroughly re- duce the mass in a baker’s break, as for making other crackers. Have them rolled very thin, no more than half as thick as soda crackers, cut in the form and the size of soda crackers, and bake quickly until a pale yellow. These Avill keep six months if placed in a dry, cool, sweet store room. They are fresher and more tender to place them in a hot oven a few moments before bringing them to the table. Graham Crackers.—Wet the best of Graham flour with cold milk, adding about a fifth proportion of thick cream, or a little butter if cream is not to be had. Mix as soft as can be handled ; knead very thoroughly, say fifteen or twenty minutes ; roll thin ; cut in three- inch-square cards; lay, so they will not touch each other, on a hot sheet-iron pan, and bake quickly, say ten to fifteen or twenty minutes, according to thickness. Handle carefully while hot, and pack away, when cold, in tin cans or stone jars in a cool, dry place. Apple-Corn Pone.—Pare and chop fine a quart of sweet apples. Scald a quart of corn meal with a pint of boiling Avater; add new milk enough to make a stiff batter, then stir in the apples. Bake slowly in a close vessel three hours. Butter the dish well. This is very nice, boiled the same length of time in a pudding-mold or bag. But it is never so good as when baked in an old-fashioned kettle Avith a close-fitting lid, Avith liA'e coals from the fire heaped on top and under the kettle. The thick broAA’n crusts are delicious, Avith cream or milk. Steamed Brown Bread.—One quart of rye meal, one pint of Indian meal, one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of sifted cream yeast stirred in the molasses, a little- salt. Stir soft with cold water, steam three hours, and dry off in the OA^ep fifteen minutes. Brown Bread.—The SAveetest bread ever made.—Take three pints of coarse yelloAV corn meal, scald it with three pints and a half of boiling Avater, add tAvo pints of coarse rye meal after the corn has cooled. Knead thoroughly with the hands. Take it out into a stone- Avare crock, or pot, which is a little larger at the top. The quantity hero given will take a vessel Avhich holds five or six quarts. Place it imme- diately in the oven after smoothing over the top Avith a spoon fre- quently dipped in cold Avater. Cover Avith a stone or iron plate, and have but little heat in the oven. It should take three hours to begin to bake, then bake slowly four hours. Leave the loaf in until the