142 PKACTICAL DIETETICS. OYSTERS IN SUMMER. Why are not ojsters eatable in months with an “r” in them? Ans.—The oysters cast their spawn in May, lose their good condi- tion, become poor and sickly, and are reckoned “ out of season.” In J line, J uly, and August they regain their good condition and become eatable once more. RICE. Is rice nutritious? Ans.—Rice is very rich in starch, yielding from seventy-five to ninety per cent, of this carbo-hydrate. It is very poor in nitrogenous matter, yielding only six or seven per cent. It is very poor also in saline matter and in fat. The starch of rice is very easily digested, and it forms a valuable food for delicate stomachs. The composition of rice is : Nitrogenous matter 6.3 Carbo-hydrates 79.5 Fatty matter .7 Saline matter .5 Water 13.0 100.0 NUTS. Are nuts wholesome ? Ans.—Nuts are a very rich food, containing much oil, in such a state that it is not easily acted on by the gastric juice unless minutely divided before being passed to the stomach. Thoroughly chewed, however, they are wholesome for persons with good stomachs. Children may eat nuts freely to advantage, but care should be taken to choose fresh ones. Stale, old, overdried nuts are very indi- gestible and injurious. TURNIPS, Etc. Is there much nutriment in the turnip, carrot, etc.? Ans.—Very little. They contain about ninety per cent, of water. Tlieir chief value is as a divisor of more nutritious food, to allow the gastric juice to act on it more readily, and as a relish. FRUITS. Should fruits constitute a very large share of our food ? Ans.—Fruits are a very important article of food. They are agree- able, refreshing, wholesome. They counteract the injurious effects of too much nitrogenous, fatty, and salty matter. They are not highly nutritious, and should not be eaten in such quantities as to overtax the stomach, as they easily undergo decomposition and produce flatulence. THE BEST FRUIT. Wliich is the best of all the fruits ? Ans.—The apple. It is, when cooked, very easily digested and lax