G7 RECIPES. open tlie oven if you can avoid it for lialf an liour ; try if they are done in a towel. Eat them hot. Potato Balls. —(For Breakfast).—Boil and mash a double quan- tity of jiotatoes for dinner, season with sweet cream and a little salt: work in two fresh eggs to a quart. Mold into little balls, prick the tops, and lay away in the cold on a plate. In the morning put on bak- ing pan and set into the oven until done to a delicate brown, which re- quires fifteen or twenty minutes. Potatoes are a standard article of food on most tables, but they are often so badly cooked that they are neither palatable nor whole- some. As a breakfast dish they are excellent. We like them pre- pared thus : Select the smaller ones—leaving the larger ones for din- ner—scrape off the skins of new potatoes, put them into cold water for ten minutes, have water boiling, and cook them twenty minutes ; pour off the water and add a cup of milk or cream, and thicken it witli a little flour and butter rubbed together. Butter never floats on the surface when mixed with flour thus, nor does the flour trouble you with lumps. It is just as well, however, to leave out the butter, mix- ing the flour with a little cream. Potatoes should always be put into 'boiling water to cook, boil quickly and pour off the water, letting them dry a few minutes over the fire before dishing up. Steaming is the best manner of cooking them. Mashed Potatoes should be left in the kettle after draining and drying as above, and mashed thoroughly over the fire ; add a little milk or cream, and they will be light as a sponge and white as flour. Never put butter into them. Steam Squash.—Squash cooked in a steamer over a little water is much nicer than when boiled. I never boil squash. It may be cut in large pieces and cooked in a kettle with a s^all steamer in the bot- tom and half a pint of water; fill the kettle with squash and keep closely covered till well cooked, taking care not to let it burn. A very hot fire is not so good for cooking as a slow, moderate heat. May be placed on the table warm or cold, niashed or not, as preferred. Many kinds of squash, especially late and winter squashes, are better baked than any other way—they are quite equal to sweet pota- toes when baked in a close kettle so as to partly steam them. Cut in slices three quarters of an inch thick. Raw Tomatoes.—The simplest and one of the most wholesome modes of preparing tomatoes is to remove the skins by scalding, cut them in slices and season to the taste. To our taste powdered loaf sugar makes the best seasoning. The tomatoes should be solid, like the Trophy, and perfectly ripe. As a substitute for fruit, they an- swer a good purpose, especially the yellow and white varieties. Stewed Tomatoes.—Let the tomatoes be well ripened, scald them and remove the skins, cut into small pieces, put into a saucepan, with a little salt and butter, and cook till Avell done, but no longer. Pepper may be added if agreeable. As a substitute for fruit, omit the pep-