KECIPES. 79 adding the sugar, and a piece of cinnamon ; pour it into custard cups, in which a little fresh butter has been melted, and bake in a slow oven. Vanilla Custaeds.—One stick of vanilla ; one pint and a half of new milk; half a pint of cream ; quarter of a pound of white sugar, and seven yolks and four whites of eggs. Cut the vanilla into slips ; boil in the milk and cream quarter of an hour, adding the sugar; strain, and let it remain till cool; then stir in the eggs, well beaten ; pour it into cups with half a tea-spoonful of fresh butter, melted, in each cup ; set them in water ; bake in a moderate oven ; color them when done by holding a hot salamander over, and serve cold, with sugar sifted on the top. White Custaeds.—One pint of cream ; three ounces of sugar ; the whites of four eggs, and one table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Boil the cream with a blade of mace; let it simmer for about five minutes ; then take it otf the fire, and add the sugar ; beat the whites of the eggs to a complete froth ; put them into the cream ; set it on the fire again, and let it boil gently, stirring constantly, till it becomes thick; take it off the fire; add the orange-flower water, or a few drops of almond-flavor, and serve in custard glasses. Note.—Custards are both wholesome and nutritions, especially for delicate stom- achs, and for those recovering from sickness, especially if used in moderation, they supply the waste of nerve-tissue better than meats or breads. The custard pie is made by baking the custard in an appropriate crust. PUDDINGS. Rice Pudding.—One cup of fresh whole rice ; nine cupfuls of new milk, and one cup of sugar. Put into a stone or earthen pan, and bake in a moderate oven three hours. Stir it two or three times during the first hour ; do not increase the heat of the oven after the milk be- gins to simmer : be careful not to scorch or blister ; a light cover to- ward the last will be better. Set to cool undisturbed. It is best eaten cold. Raisins may be added, if desired. Anothee.—Five tea-cupfuls of rice picked and washed ; fifteen quarts of new milk ; one and a half pound of white sugar ; one pound of raisins. Bake three hours in a moderate oven ; stir it occasionally for two hours; then leave it to brown over. This makes a delicious pudding, plain and simple. Beead Pudding.—To one loaf of bread, well grated, pour two quarts of boiled milk or cream ; four eggs ; a quarter of a pound of white sugar; flavor to the taste (mace is a very good flavor), and bake an hour. If the boiled milk is poured upon pieces of stale bread and left standing two hours, they can be mashed and freed from lumps with the hand before putting in the eggs. Dried currants, that have been well washed and swelled in lukewarm water, or raisins, will be a good addition to this pudding. If made with crackers it will be still moro delicate. Cold sauce may be eaten with it or fruit sauce, if no fruit is put into the pudding.