RECIPES. 70 broken ; add the chopped parsley, and stir in the flour and butter, previously mixed; simmer them ten minutes longer, and serve im- mediately. Green^ Peas.—The most important part is to get the peas fresh from the vines. They lose their delicious flavor in a very short time after picking. Wash before shelling, not after. Shell the peas, then select the tenderest ])ods, and put into just water enough to cover them, and after boiling them ten or fifteen minutes, skim out the pods and put in the peas. Boil them slowly twenty minutes, trim with a little rich cream, and salt. They should be boiled in so little water that there will not be more than a half teacupful around them when they are cooked, and this should be seasoned and dished with the peas. Those who must depend upon the markets for peas often find them very insipid and tasteless, notwithstanding their care in selecting and cooking. Sometimes a spoonful of sugar Avill add to the fiavor. Boiling the pods adds much to the richness and sweetness of the peas. Asparagus.—Select green asparagus. If you have the privilege of cutting it from the bed, break or cut as close to the ground as it is tender. If you must buy from the markets, try several stalks and see that they are not woody and tough. The white ends are usually so, and are not eatable, being very bitter besides. After breaking oil the hardest part, the asparagus may be improved by taking a thin sharp knife and stripping off the outside skin, beginning at the cut end and drawing the skin upward as far as it will go. The bitter lies next to the outside. Now cut the stalks into pieces an inch long, put into a saucepan, sprinkle over a little salt, and just cover with boiling water. Cook twenty minutes ; add half a teacupful of sweet cream ; rub together a teaspoonful of butter and a teaspoonful of flour and stir in; boil up a minute or two ; toast a thin slice of bread a light brown ; cut into several pieces ; lay into the bottom of a dish, and pour the asparagus over. Or leave the asparagus without cutting up, lay it all one way in the saucepan, and otherwise prepare the same. SiiETiLED Beans.—Of the shelling beans the Lima, Horticultural, and Saba are the best. They reqiiire a full hour to boil, and a large quantity of water, as there appears to be a more rai>id evaporation when beans are boiling than with most vegetables. When ready to dish, season as other vegetables. Much seasoning destroys or covers up the delicious taste of the bean. A little rich cream and salt is sufficient. String Beans should be strung, broken in pieces, and boiled an hour or two, and seasoned the same as shelled beans. Boiled Cabbage.—Take off the outside leaves—all that are green or imperfect—from a head of white cabbage; cut into quarters, and lay it for a few minutes into a panful of cold salted water. This will at once remove slugs or insects. Open the leaves, but do not break them from the stem, Shake them in the water and examine carefully, then put into a kettle containing at least three quarts of fast boiling water. Cover the kettle and boil fast for three quarters of an hour.