144 PRACTICAL DIETETICS. HONEY. Is honey a true food, and may it be eaten with safety ? Ans.—Honey is a vegetable product, secreted by the nectariferous glands of flowers, sucked up by bees, passed to the honey-bag, possibly slightly changed before disgorged, and deposited in the cell of comb. Pure fresh honey is slightly laxative and wholesome. The comb is not easily digested. A German teacher has lately written a work on the subject of honey and its healiirg properties. While he may over- estimate its value, what he says is interesting. He says: “ A strong influence for publishing this book was the fact that I, a sufferer from hemorrhages, already given up to despair, and at the verge of the grave, was saved by the wonderful curative powers of honey ; and now, thank God, I am freed, not only from weakness of my lungs, but rejoice in the possession of perfect health. “ At my first attack, upward of thirty years ago, powders and tea were ordered for me, which benefited me but little. I then placed little confidence in honey, which I used occasionally, and in small quantities. Judging from my present knowledge, I believe that the honey was the only remedy that was doing me any good, and it is this that I have to thank for the gradual, the sure restoration of my health. “ As my disease increased, I began to use cod-liver oil, which weak- ened and injured my stomach, so that I could hardly digest anything more, and my condition became worse and worse. Again I returned to honey, when my suffering immediately began to decrease and disap- pear. Besides the use of honey, I took pains to preserve my breast and lungs from injury which, in my trying situation as public teacher, was almost impossible. My disease being caused by my constant teaching during so many years, I gave up my profession, and honey was my only medicine, whereby I, by the simplest, safest, quickest, and pleasantest manner (for I was fond of honey), relieved the disease in my throat; and, out of thankfulness, 1 now write this book for the use and benefit of many, especially for the use of those suffering from diseases of the throat and lungs.” THE TEETH. As our teeth have a great deal to do with our food, what are the best methods of preserving them ? Ans.- - As soon as the teeth make their appearance it should be the duty of the mother or the nurse to clean them, morning and evening, with a small brush and tepid water, and, as they increase in number, floss silk, well waxed, should be passed between them, moving it up and down a little under the gums, for the purpose of removing accumula- tions, remembering that food, fruit, etc., left in the mouth and between the teeth during sleep, are the principal causes of their decay. Early and careful attention to the teeth, cleanliness of mouth, temperance in living, and abstinence from acids, are some of the best maxims for the preservation and beauty of the teeth. When children are thus famil- iarized with the healthy and necessary custom of brushing the teeth, it becomes a fixed habit, and they will find it ever afterward abso-