SIMPLE BEVERAGES FROM FRUITS. 101 from insects, and will often be of great service to invalids, especially in sections of country where the natural water is impure. Filtered Water.—A vessel to purify water by filtration, is one of the most valuable and necessary articles of house- hold economy, and no one who has a fine appreciation of the connection between that great blessing, good health and pure water, if he lives in a region where the latter is not usually good, will consider his domestic establishment perfect with- out some form of filter. There are many forms of them, and their expense is slight compared with the good they ac- complish. SIMPLE BEYERAGIES FROM FRUITS. The juices of various fruits may be used with water and sugar for making most delicious and wholesome beverages. Put a gallon of water on to boil, cut up one pound of tart apples, each one into quarters, put them in the w'ater, and boil them until they can be pulped ; pass the liquor through a cullender, boil it up again with half a pound of sugar, scum, and bottle for use, taking care not to cork the bottle, and keep it in a cool place: the apples may be eaten with sugar as a sauce. Another way.—Bake the apples first, then put them in a gallon pan, add the sugar, and pour boiling water over, let it get cold, pass the liquor as above, and bottle. Apple Toast and Water.—A piece of bread, slowly toasted till it gets quite black, and added to the above, makes a very nice and re- freshing drink for invalids. Apple Barley Water.—A quarter of a pound of pearl barley instead of toast added to the above, and boil for one hour, is also a very nice drink. Apple Rice Water.—Half a pound of rice, boiled in the above until in pulp, passed through a cullender, and drunk when cold. All kinds of fruits may be done the same way. Figs and French plums are excellent; also raisins. A little ginger, where desired, may be used. For Spring Drink.—Rhubarb, in the same quantities, and done in Ihe same way as apples, adding more sugar, is very cooling.