RECIPES. 85 a few drops of pure lemon juice ; pour it into a mold, and let it stand to set. When boiled quickly, the above quantity requires two hours and a half, and is a much better color than when it is longer in prep- aration. Molded Rice.—Take eight ounces of rice and one and a half pints of milk. Wash, and swell the rice in the juilk, till the whole of the milk is absorbed and the rice thoroughly softened; then pressing it into a mold or basin for half an hour, with a weight upon it, serve it, turned out, with preserved or stewed fruit. Molded S.vgo. —Take five tablespoonfuls of sago; one-fourth pound of sugar, and a little pure lemon juice. Steep the sago a quar- ter of an hour in half a pint of cold water. Pour on it one and a half pints of boiling water, and boil the whole in an earthen vessel in the oven about one hour, occasionally stirring it. Pour into molds or basins, and let it stand. When cold, turn it out, and serve with stewed fruit. Sago with Fruit.—Take four ounces of sago ; half a pint of raspberry and currant juice (strained), and six ounces of loaf sugar. Wash the sago and steep it one hour in cold water; strain off the water ; add the juice and boil gently a short time, stirring it occasionally, and adding the sugar; when clear, pour it into a mold ; let it stand twelve hours, and pour it on a flat dish. Tapioca.—Take three ounces of tapioca, two ounces of ground rice, one pint and a half of milk, and eight drops of almond-flavor. Wash the tapioca in water two or three times ; mix with the ground rice ; add half a pint of cold milk, and let it remain thirty minutes; then add the remainder of the milk, and simmer it half an hour, stirring well the whole time ; add the almond-flavor, and pour it into a mold previously dipped in cold water. Cracked Wueat.—For a quart of the ci-acked grain have two quarts of water boiling in a smooth iron pot over a quick fire ; stir in the wheat slowly ; boil fast and stir constantly for the first half hour of cooking, or until it begins to4thicken and “ })op up ;” then lift from the quick fire and place the pot where the wheat will cook slowly for an hour longer. Keep it covered closely, stir now and then, and be careful not to let it burn at the bottom. Wheat cooked thus is much sweeter and richer than when left to soak and simmer for hours, as many think necessary. White wheat cooks the easiest. When ready to dish out, have your molds moistened with cold water, cover lightly, and set in a cool place. A handful of raisins added with the wheat is an addition. Eat warm or cold, with milk and sugar, or fruit. MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. A STORY is told of an old doctor who always emptied the odds and ends of every medicine he used into a large bottle, and when he had a patient that he was in doubt about as to what medicine he needed, he always gave him a dose fi’om this bottle. “ Some one of the many