PRACTICAL LIETETICS. 125 bread and biscuits should be omitted. With these hints, we commend the article, not as furnishing an absolute guide, but as affording abundant hints for an improved system of feeding boys and girls at scliool. We also advise parents who send their children from home to school, to refuse to patronize any school that does not furnish a good table for the students. The notion so long prevailing, that students should eat but little, is utterly false, and has done harm. They should not stuff themselves at all hours with all sorts of bad food, but should eat abundance of the very best. The following is the article referred to : On School Dietaries.—In the neighborhood of one of our Midland cities is a school of some fifty boys. During some recent visits to this school, the singular healthiness and heartiness of the boys made me curious to learn exactly how they were fed. The following I ascer- tained to be the dietary : Breakfast (in summer at 8, in winter at 8.30) consists of abundance of milk, bread and butter, and cold meat. By way of a change now and then, eggs for a few days together take the place of meat. Before the foregoing, boys who like it have a small basin of bread and milk, or of Scotch porridge made with milk. The milk is new, and comes straight from a farm adjoining the school-grounds. Lunch at 11—Each boy has a small fresh roll of bread, or a bun, or a captain’s biscuit, if weakly, a tumbler of milk ; but, as a rule, noth- ing is drunk at lunch, dinner, or supper but pure water. Dinner at 1.30, always consists of two courses. 1. Two kinds of meats, viz., beef and mutton, with not less than two kinds of veget- ables, and of these a liberal supply. 2. Pudding, usually of fruit, fresh or preserved according to season, and always well sweetened. On four days of the week the meat is hot roast ; on one day it is hot boiled ; on one day steaks, cutlets, or made dishes are substituted for joints; while the Sunday dinner always consists of cold beef, mashed potatoes or salad, and plum pudding. After dinner, some ripe fruit, as an orange or some kind of garden fruit, according to the season. Tea at 6 p. m.—Tea, bread and butter, varied almost daily either with home-made plum-cake, or marmalade, or honey. Wlienever procur- able, some salad herb, such as lettuce, radish, etc., is given at this meal, and always eaten with much relish. Supper at 8 P. M. (for senior boys only).—Bread and butter, or bread and cheese, or biscuit, or, where it seems needed, a tumbler of milk and a sandwich. No hampers of eatables are allowed to be sent to the boys from their friends, and no shops for the sale of sweets, etc., are allowed or acces- sible to the boys. This dietary seems to me so nearly what growing boys or girls ought to have, and so often what they do not get, even at their own homes, that it may appropriately serve as the text for a few remarks on the usual dietaries of public and private schools. I will begin by at once stating my belief—as one who was himself at a private and a public school, and who still sees a good deal of schoolboys—that either