73 EECIPEB. have the apples pressed out, so that there shall not he a -wide strip of thick crust with no apples near them. An apple pie should be eaten just after it is cool. If eaten while hot, it is apt to go down only half masticated, and the effect of the heat on the tongue tends to destroy the finer sense of taste. After an apple pie is one day old it begins to grow stale, unless it is kept with great care. Soyer, the famous Lon- don pie-maker, thinks that if all the spoilt pies made in London on one single Sunday were placed in a row beside a railway, it would take an express-train an hour to pass them in review. Whoever will induce bakers to improve their methods of making them, will be a public benefactor. The usual price for a piece of pie in a New York restaurant is ten cents. They could be afliorded for half that price, at a profit, too, if there were no spoiled pies. The following receipts for pie pastry will be found excellent. They may be varied somewhat to suit individual tastes, provided only the general rules be kept in view. We commend the cream shortening as better than any other. Good Pie Crust.—A quart of flour will make two large pies. Sift the flour. Take a large, strong spoon, and stir into the flour one quar- ter of a pound of butter and a tea-spoonful of yeast powder ; then moisten with cold water—ice water if you have it—using just as little as will make the flour stick together. Sprinkle some of the shortened flour on the pie-board, and roll the crust large enough for the pie-pan; do not try to make smooth edges until you have put in the filling, and the upper crust; then press the edges firmly together and cut off the rough edges with a knife. The secret of good, tender, plain pas- try is speedy work—no working with the warm hands. Cre.\m and Potato Pastry.—Six good-sized potatoes, boiled and mashed, mealy, and white, one tea-cup of sweet cream, half tea-spoon- ful of salt, and flour enough to make it stay together, and roll out. Work and handle as little as possible, and roll tliicker than for com- mon pastry. This is Mrs. Beecher’s receipt for “pastry for meat pies,” and is exactly wliat a wholesome fruit pie needs. Light tart apples, cut in thin slices, and filled into such a crust with a table-spoonful of water and two of sugar added, and a top-crust, baked half an hour, will be good enough for an epicure. Mrs. Cox’s Method.—Pour sufficient boiling water upon wheat meal to make a stiff dough ; roll, without kneading, to any desired thickness, from an eighth to a half inch. Note.—This makes a very tender ernst, quite as much so as can he made in the ordinary way. It may be made of superline Hour, or rye meal, or a mixture of dif- lerent kinds. To have the crust tender, it must not be kneaded, but rolled out with plenty of meal on the board. Mattie Jones’ Cream Pie Crust. — Take equal quantities of Graham flour, white flour, and Indian meal ; rub evenly together, and