EECIPES. 64 Place the eggs in water “ milkwarm,” or a little warmer. In four or five minutes pour off the watei% and immediately pour on boiling water to cover the eggs, and in five minutes they will be cooked. If boiling water is j)oured on cold eggs in a cold dish, it will be so suddenly cooled that the eggs will not be cooked, but treat them as above directed, and you will find them thoroughly cooked, yet soft and palatable. The Queen’s Omelet.—Place in the frying pan about one ounce of butter. Break three eggs, separately, to see they are fresh; beat them uj) with a little chopped parsley and a pinch of pepper and salt. The eggs should not be beaten too much, or the white of them sepa- rates, and you produce a watery mixture which destroys the flavor and appearance of the omelet. Now the butter is melted, pour in the fry- ing pan the omelet mixture and stir till it begins to set or thicken, shake the pan occasionally, and fold over the omelet neatly into an oval shape, and when it is of a golden color turn quickly into a dish. To be able to prepare a plain omelet is to be able to prepare every kind of omelet. If you require a cheese omelet, introduce into the omelet mixture about a dessert spoonful of grated cheese, with a little pep2)er and salt, and sometimes a few grains of cayenne jiepper. In a sweet omelet no pej^per or salt, but a little grated sugar; and just be- fore the omelet is folded in the pan distribute evenly over a little jam. In preparing an omelet, remember five things—a clean pan ; the mix- ture must not be too much beaten ; the omelet must not be too large; three eggs are better than six eggs, Avhich make two omelets ; they should not be too much cooked ; they should be eaten immedi- ately, or they become tough, and more like a jiancake. Dropped Eggs.—Have ready a saucepan of boiling water. Drop fresh eggs carefully into the water so as not to break the yolks. Let them stand where they will keej) hot, but not boil, until the wliite sets. Toast slices of bread and lay in a dish, and pour over it a gill of hot cream with a little salt; then take out the eggs with an egg- slice or tablesj^ocn, and i)ut on to the bread with jiarsley, if you like. Baked Omelet.—Boil half a pint of cream, or rich milk ; beat six eggs thoroughly—they will be nicer if the whites ai«i yolks are beaten separately ; have a deep dish hot and buttered ; stir the beaten eggs, with a little salt, into the cream ; put all quickly into the dish, and bake from five to ten minutes, deiiending upon the condition of the oven. It should be lightly browned, and taken directly to the table in the dish. Scrambled Eggs.—Have a spider hot and buttered. Break as many eggs as you wish to cook into a dish, being careful not to break the yolks. Slip the eggs into the spider, sprinkle over a very little salt, and add a lump of butter the size of a nutmeg for half a dozen eggs, or three tablespoonfuls of rich cream. When the eggs begin to whiten, stir them carefully from the bottom, imtil cooked to suit. The yolks and whites should separate, though stirred together. Care should be taken not to have the spider too hot.