PEACTICAL DIETETICS. 131 OATMEAL AND MILK DIET. Why are the Scotch people, who drink a great deal of whisky, the best developed, physically, of any of the English race? Ans.—According to Dr. Edward Smith, who carefully investigated this subject, their fine bodies are in great part the result of their diet of oatmeal and milk. The Scotch women and children do less factory Avork, and live more out of doors. When the writer was in Edinburgh, the celebrated Dr. Guthrie called his attention to the size of Scotch people, and to the fact that the average size of their heads was greater than that of any other nation in the world, not excepting even the English; and when asked how he accounted for this, he replied that he thought it was owing largely to their universal devotion to oatmeal. Indeed, the writer observed that the national dish was found upon the table at almost every meal, in the houses of the rich as Avell as the poor. In the morning came the mush, and in the evening the traditional cake, about the size of the crown of a hat, and a little harder than a sun-dried brick. For further confirmation on this important question, let the writer add that he has found a great advantage to follow the daily use of (honest) brown bread and oatmeal in his family. A child whose first teeth came through in a starved condition, so that they began to decay at once and cause much suffering, is now blessed with as fine a set of second cutters as any one could ask, while the general health of all has improved. In fact, we all vote that we must daily have our brown bread and its twin-sister dish of oatmeal, HONEY. Is honey wholesome ? Ans.—Yes, used in moderation it is. Very old honey, however, should be eschewed. WORKING ON RICE AND MILK. Can a man do hard work on rice and milk ? Ans.—Yes, especially in hot weather, as the following case shows : A health reformer was told that he could not keep up Avith the crew of men through haying on his “sick folks’ baby diet.” He replied that he could go through the two Aveeks of haying on rice and milk, and endure the labor as Avell as any man in the creAv. The Avhole company ridiculed him. “ They laughed, ’tAvas well; hut the rule applied Soon made them laugh on the other side.” He went through the entire haying season with only rice and milk for nourishment, and, to the astonishment of all, did more Avork and endured it better than any other man in the company. They had sup- posed that rice contained but little nourishment, Avas suitable only for sick people, students, etc., but Avere surprised to learn that there is on earth but one other article of food (oatmeal) containing more nourish- ment to the pound than rice.