RADIAL ARTERY. 423 EADIAL ARTERY (IV). The radial artery appears by its direction, to be the continuation of the brachial, although it does not equal the ulnar in size. It extends along the front of the forearm as far as the lower end of the radius, below which it turns round the outer border of the wrist, and descends to the upper end of the space between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and forefinger: there it passes forwards into the palm of the hand, supplies digital branches to the thumb and index finger, and terminates in the deep palmar arch. In consequence of the changes in its direction, the course, connections and branches of the radial artery may be sepa- rately described in the forearm, at the wrist and in the hand. In the forearm.—The radial artery, commencing at the point of bifurcation of the brachial opposite the neck of the radius, descends with a nearly straight course, along the outer part of the front of the forearm, to the styloid process of the radius. Its position is indicated by a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the narrow interval between the scaphoid bone and the tendons of the extensors of the thumb, which can be readily felt on the outer border of the wrist. The radial artery is nearer to the surface than the ulnar ; it is covered in its upper half by the fleshy part of the supinator longus muscle, which must be drawn aside in order to bring the vessel into view ; in its lower half only by the integument and fascia. At first it is in contact with the tendon of the biceps, and is supported by the fatty tissue contained in the hollow in the front of the elbow, which separates it from the short supinator muscle. It then rests in succession on the insertion of the pronator teres, the thin radial origin of the flexor sublimis, the flexor longus pollicis, the pronator quadratus, and the lower end of the radius. It is at this last point that the pulse is usually felt during life. To the inner side of this vessel lie the pronator teres in the upper part of its course, and the flexor carpi radialis in the remainder; and on the outer side, in its whole course along the forearm, is the supinator longus muscle. Relation to veins.—The artery is accompanied by vence comites, which have the usual arrangement of those veins. Relation to nerves.—The radial nerve is near the artery, on its outer side, in the middle third of its course. At the elbow this nerve is sepa- rated from the artery by a considerable interval; and towards the lower end of the forearm it turns backwards beneath the tendon of the supi- nator longus, to reach the dorsal aspect of the limb, and thus loses all connection with the artery. Some filaments of the external cutaneous nerve pierce the fascia to reach the lower part of the artery, which they accompany to the back of the carpus. Branches.—In the forearm the radial artery gives many small muscular offsets to the surrounding muscles and the following named branches, viz.:— 1. The radial recurrent artery, which varies much in size, arches upwards from the radial soon after its origin, running between the branches of the musculo-spiral nerve., It lies at first on the supinator brevis, and then on the brachialis anticus, being covered by the supinator longus. In the interval between the last two muscles, it anastomoses with the anterior terminal branch of the superior profunda. From the lower or convex side of this artery are given off several