484 ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. it gradually from the outer to the inner side. Above the ankle it is placed also beneath the upper band of the anterior annular ligament. Fig. 286. Fig. 286.—Anterior, view op tite arteries or the leg and foot (from Tiedemann). J The tibialis anticus muscle is drawn inwards so as to bring the anterior tibial artery into view ; the extensor proprius hallucis, the long extensor of the toes and the peroneus tertius muscles in their lower part, and the whole of the extensor brevis, have been removed. 1, superior external articular branch of the popliteal artery, ramifying over the knee, and anastomosing with the other articular branches and with 2, the anterior tibial recurrent artery ; 3, 3, anterior tibial, giving off muscular branches on each side ; 4, dorsal artery of the foot; 5, external malleolar artery, anastomosing with the anterior peroneal which is seen descending upon the in this instance larger than usual and reinforcing the next artery ; 7, metatarsal branch, giving off the second dorsal interosseous artery ; in the first inter- intei’osseous artery ; between 8, and 8, the collateral dorsal digital arteries. Relation to veins and nerves.—The ante- rior tibial artery is accompanied by two vence. A llv tv/friC'/ vt// t'vl/vtvi/ /vo/ vv/111411 front the outer side of the neck of the fibula, approaches the artery a short distance below the place where the vessel appears in front of the interosseous membrane. Lower down, the nerve for the most part lies in front of the artery, and at the ankle it is generally on the outer side of the vessel. Branches.—Before perforating the inter- osseous membrane the anterior tibial artery gives off the posterior tibial recurrent and the superior fibular branches. On the front of the leg it gives off the anterior tibial recurrent, numerous muscular branches, and the external and internal malleolar arteries. 1. The posterior tibial recurrent artery is a small branch which ascends beneath the popliteus muscle to the back of the knee-joint. It gives offsets to the popli- teus and the upper tibio-fibular articulation, and anastomoses with the lower articular arteries from the popliteal. This branch is sometimes wanting. 2. The superior fibular branch (C. Krause), also of small size, arises most frequently from the anterior tibial artery, but lower part of the fibula ; the internal malleolar is repre- sented proceeding from the inner side of the anterior tibial artery; 6, tarsal branch of the dorsal artery, osseous space the dorsal artery of the foot is seen descend- ing into the sole after having given off the first dorsal comites. The anterior tibial nerve, coming it is sometimes derived from the posterior tibial, or from the lower end