EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. 643 obliquely along the outer side of the popliteal space, lying close to the biceps muscle. Continuing downwards over the outer part of the gas- trocnemius muscle (between it and the biceps) and below the head of the fibula, the nerve turns round that bone, passing between it and the peroneus longus muscle, and then divides into the anterior tibial and the musculo-cutaneous nerves. Branches.—Some articular and cutaneous branches are derived from the external popliteal nerve before its final division. (a) The articular branches are conducted to the outer side of the cap- sular ligament of the knee-joint by the upper and lower articular arteries of that side. They sometimes arise together, and the upper one occasionally springs from the great sciatic nerve before the bifurcation. From the place of division of the external popliteal nerve, a branch called the recurrent articular nerv Fig. 362.—Cutaneous nerves of the OUTER SIDE OF THE LEG AND FOOT (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leyeille). J 1, external popliteal nerve; 2, its cutaneous branch ; 3, peroneal communi- cating branch which unites with 4, the tibial communicating, in 5, the external ■saphenous nerve ; 6, calcaneal branch of the external saphenous; .7, external dorsal digital brancli to the fifth toe ; 8, dorsal digital branch of the fourth and fifth toes ; 9, 9, musculo-cutaneous nerve; 10, 10, its two divisions: 11, union with the external saphenous ; 12, communication between its outer and inner branches ; 13, anterior tibial nerve, shown by the removal of a part of the muscles; 14, its inner terminal branch, emerging in the space between the first and second toes, where it gives the collateral dorsal digital branches to their adjacent sides; 15, recurrent ar- ticular nerve. with the anterior tibial recur- rent artery; its fibres terminate mainly in that muscle, but one or two filaments may reach the fore part of the knee-joint. (b) The cutaneous branches, generally two in number, supply the skin on the back part and outer side of the leg. The iieroneal or fibular commu- nicating branch, which usually joins the short saphenous nerve below the middle of the back of the leg, is the largest of these nerves. In some instances, it continues as filaments reach down to the heel or ascends through the tibialis anticus Fig. 362. a separate branch, and its cutaneous on to the outer side of the foot. T T 2