354 ARCH OF THE AORTA. ft, the hyoid bone ; b, b, placed on the anterior scalene muscles, point to the upper part of the pneu- mo-gastric nerves; c, the trachea below the isthmus of the thyroid body, and lower down the same letter is on the left bronchus ; c', one of the divisions of the right bronchus emerging from behind the aorta ; in the hollow of the aortic arch, above 5, are seen the cord of the ductus arteri- osus cut short, and the left recurrent nerve passing below the arch; +, is placed on the right side between the recurrent nerve and the vertebral artery as they pass upwards; d, the oeso- phagus ; e, e', upon the right crus of the diaphragm, mark the receptaculum chyli of the thoracic duct, and its commencement by the lum- bar plexus of lymphatic vessels and efferent mesen- teric lacteal vessels; /, /, /, on the third, seventh, and eleventh ribs, point to the vena azygos and intercostal veins of the right side; g, kidney ; g', suprarenal body ; h, body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. /, ascending part of the arch of the aorta : below this the semilunar valves are seen closed and dis- tended by injection ; de- scendingpartof thearch; 1", descending thoracic aorta ; 11, abdominal aorta. Branches of the arch and descending thoracic aorta : 1, right and left coronary arteries ; 2, innominate ; 3, left common carotid; 4, left subclavian ; 5, bronchial arteries ; 6, 6, oesophageal arteries ; the lower figure points by a line to the thoracic duct; 7, intercostal arteries, marked in the sixth and seventh intercostal spaces. Branches of the abdominal aorta: 8, inferior diaphragmatic arteries cut short; 9, coeliac axis with the gastric, splenic, and hepatic arteries cut short; 10, placed cn the. aorta below the superior mesenteric artery (cut short) and the origin of the renal arteries ; a little below this the origin of the spermatic arteries ; below 11, the inferior mesenteric Fig. 228. Fig. 228.—View of the THORACIC AND GREATER PART OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA, SHOWING THEIR PRINCIPAL RELATIONS. (A.T.). } artery, 11, 11, two of the lumbar arteries.