PLAN OF ORGANISATION. 3 all the animals formed upon this type the character of a greater develop- ment of its constituent parts: and at the other the tail in which an opposite character or that of diminution prevails : while on the sides of the main part or trunk, there project, in relation with some of the vertebral elements, two pairs of symmetrical limbs, in two situations which are determinate and similar in different animals. The head and trunk contain the organs or viscera most important to life, such as the alimentary canal and the great central organs of the sanguiferous and nervous systems, while the limbs, from which such principal organs are absent, are very variable and differ widely in the degree of their development among the various animals formed upon the vertebrate type. The whole body may thus be regarded as being- formed of an axial portion consisting of the head and trunk, and of appendicular portions comprising the limbs. In man and the higher animals the trunk presents a division into the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis. The vertebrate form of skeleton is invariably accompanied by a determinate and conformable disposition of the other most important organs of the body, viz .-.—firstly, the existence on the dorsal aspect of the vertebral axis of an elongated cavity or canal which contains the brain and spinal cord, or central organs of the nervous system ; and secondly, the existence on the ventral aspect of the vertebral axis of a larger cavity, the visceral cavity, in which are contained the principal viscera connected with nutrition, such as the alimentary canal, the heart and lungs, the great blood-vessels, and the urinary and genital organs. The general disposition of the parts of the body and of the more important viscera in their relation to the vertebral axis are shown in the accompanying figures of the external form and longitudinal and transverse sections of the human embryo at an early period of its existence, when its structure resembles more closely that of the lower animals. Fig. 1.—Lateral view op THE HUMAN EMBRYO ABOUT SEVEN WEEKS OLD ; THE VERTEBRAL AXIS PLACED HORIZONTALLY. MAGNIFIED ABOUT 7 DIAMETERS. (A.T.) s, s, indications of the ver- tebral divisions along the line of the back ; r,u, upper limb; t, f, lower limb ; u, umbilical opening. In the cranial part the divisions of the brain are indicated, together with the eye, and ail, the auditory vesicle ; near 6, the visceral arches of the head with the rudiments of the upper and lower jaws. These arches and the clefts between are represented in a state belonging to a somewhat earlier stage than the rest of the body. Fig. 1. Segmented Character.—The vertebrate type of organisation presents, there- fore, in the repetition of similar structural elements in a longitudinal series, a segmented character, especially in the axial portion of the body, and this b 2