364 ARTERIES OF TIIE HEAD AND NECK. pharynx. On the inner side of the point of division of the artery, and closely united to its wall, is placed the small vascular body known as the carotid gland (see Yol. II. p. 197). Relation to veins.—The internal jugular vein is close to the artery at the upper part of the neck, but, on approaching the thorax, the two are separated on the right side by an angular interval, in which the com- mencement of the subclavian artery and the pneumo-gastric nerve are exposed ; on the left side, the vein is usually nearer to the artery, and may even overlap it at the lower part of the neck. Crossing over the upper part of the common carotid artery to join the jugular vein, is the superior thyroid vein, often double, and occasionally forming a sort of plexus over the artery. A middle thyroid vein fre- quently crosses the artery about half-way up the neck ; and the anterior jugular vein, as it turns outwards under the stern o-mastoid, crosses the lower part of the artery, but is separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. There is also in many cases a communicating branch, sometimes of large size, between the facial and anterior jugular veins, which descends obliquely over the front of the artery, lying along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. Relation to nerves.—The descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve, desccndens noni, passes down on the surface of the artery, crossing it very gradually from the outer to the inner side ; and this nerve, together with the branches of the cervical nerves which join it, may be placed either within or on the front of the carotid sheath. The pneumo-gastric nerve lies within the sheath of the vessels between the artery and vein posteriorly. The sympathetic nerve is placed ■ along the back of the sheath, between it and the prevertebral muscles, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve crosses upwards and inwards behind the lower part of the sheath. The common carotid artery usually gives off no branch, and therefore continues of equal size in its whole length, except close to its bifurcation, where a slight enlargement is observable. Varieties.— Origin.—The right carotid artery occasionally arises directly from the aorta, either alone or in conjunction with the left carotid ; and in the latter case it has been seen beginning on the left of the middle line, and crossing the front of the trachea above the upper border of the sternum to gain its usual position on the right side. When it arises from the aorta, it is usually the first large vessel from the arch, the subclavian being displaced ; but it has been found to occupy the second place,—the right subclavian, or, in cases of a right aortic arch, the left carotid being the first. The place at which the right carotid artery commences varies with the point of bifurcation of the innominate artery. A change from the usual position on a level with the upper border of the clavicle was found by R. Quain in the propor- tion of about one case in eight and a half of those observed by him ; and it was found to occur somewhat more frequently below than above that point. The left carotid artery varies in its origin much more frequently than the right. In the greater number of its deviations from the ordinary place of origin, this artery arises from, or in conjunction with, the innominate artery; and in those cases in which the right subclavian is a separate branch of the aorta, the two carotids most frequently arise by a common trunk. In cases of transposition, or of right aortic arch without other abnormality, the left common carotid springs from a left innominate artery, which is the first vessel to rise from the arch, and the right carotid is the second vessel. Place of division.—This often deviates somewhat from its usual position ; it does so more frequently in an upward than in a downward direction. It is often