Fig. 202. Fig. 202.—Muscles of the constrictor; 11, inferior con- MUSCLES OF TIIE TONGUE. 295 aperture of the larynx. The infrahyoid muscles also act with the stemo-mastoid in forced inspiration. The digastric, mylo-hyoid and genio-hyoid muscles are either elevators of the hyoid bone, or depressors of the lower jaw. according' as one or other of these bones is fixed by the antagonistic muscles. The stylo-hyoid acts only on the hyoid bone. The mylo-hyoid and genio-hyoid acting alone draw the hyoid bone forwards as well as upwards, while the stylo-hyoid (aided by the middle con- strictor of the pharynx) moves it backwards and upwards. The attachment of the digastric to the hyoid bone, however, is not close enough to allow of the independent action of the anterior and posterior bellies, and this muscle there- fore, when the jaw is fixed, elevates directly the hyoid bone, as do also the other muscles of this group acting in combination. The mylo-hyoid farther raises the floor of the mouth and presses the tongue against the hard palate, thus forcing backwards the food in the first stage of deglutition. MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. The tongue is a muscular organ attached posteriorly to the hyoid hone, and inferiorly to the lower jaw. It is composed partly of fibres peculiar to itself—the intrinsic muscles, which will be noticed with the special anatomy of the tongue in Yol. 11. ; and partly of muscles arising from neighbouring parts—the extrinsic muscles about to be described. The genio-glossus or genio-hyo-glossus muscle is fan-shaped, and is placed vertically in contact with its fellow in the mesial plane. It arises by a short tendon from the superior mental spine behind the a, external pterygoid plate ; 6, styloid process; c, section of the symphysis of the lower jaw; d, body of the hyoid bone ; e, thyroid cartilage ; /, cricoid cartilage; between d and e, the thyro-hyoid mem- brane and ligament ; g, isth- mus of the thyroid body ; J, stylo-glossus muscle ; 2, stylo- hyoid ; 3, stylo-pharyngeus ; 4, cut edge of the mylo-hyoid ; 5, genio-hyoid ; 6, genio-glossus ; 7, hyo-glossus ; 8, lingualis in- ferior ; 9, part of the superior constrictor of the pharynx; 10, back part of the middle strictor ; 12, upper part of the oesophagus; 13, crico-thyroid muscle. symphysis of the jaw : from this its fibres di- verge, to be inserted, the inferior, for the most part, into the body of the hyoid bone, and a few into the side of the pharynx; the superior into the tip of the tongue; and the intermediate fibres into the whole length of the tongue spreading outwards in its substance. TONGUE, PHARYNX, &C., OF THE LEFT SIDE. (A. T.) £