ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 162 fourth metacarpal bones are united to the carpus by dorsal ligaments, of which each bone receives two, viz., the second from the trapezium and trapezoid, the third from the trapezoid and os magnum, and the fourth Fig. 137. Fig. 137.—General view of the articulations OF THE WRIST AND HAND FROM BEFORE. I, lower part of the interosseous membrane ; 2, and from that point across the lower end of the radius, the palmar radio-carpal ligaments; 3, sca- phoid bone ; 4, pisiform ; 5, trapezium ; 6, unci- form ; 7, os magnum, with most of the deeper ligaments uniting these bones ; I, first metacarpo- phalangeal articulation with its external lateral ligament; II to V, transverse metacarpal ligament: in the several interplialangeal articulations of the fingers the lateral ligaments are shown; in the thumb the external only is visible. from the os magnum and unciform, and by palmar ligaments, one to each bone, but which are not so well defined and less constant. The fifth metacarpal bone is united to the unciform bone by a thin capsule which surrounds the articulation except on the outer side. There is like- wise an interosseous band in one part of the carpo-metacarpal articulation, con- necting the lower and contiguous angles of the os magnum and unciform to the adjacent angle of the third metacarpal bone. This ligament sometimes separates the cavity between the unciform and two inner metacarpal bones from the rest of the joint. The first metacarpal bone is articulated with the trapezium by a capsular investment, which is thickened behind and on the outer side, and is lined by a distinct synovial membrane. ISETACAEPO-PHALANGEAL AND INTERPHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS. The rounded head of each metacarpal bone is received into the slight hollow in the base of the first phalanx, and the bones are maintained in position by two lateral ligaments and an anterior ligament. The lateral ligaments are strong bands springing from the tubercle and depression on each side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and passing downwards and forwards to the contiguous margin of the phalanx. The anterior fibres are directed almost horizontally forwards and join the palmar ligament of the articulation. The anterior or palmar ligament, or rather fibrous plate, occupies the interval between the lateral ligaments on the palmar aspect of each joint ; it is a thick and dense fibrous structure, which is firmly united to the phalanx but loosely adherent to the metacarpal bone. It is continuous at each side with the lateral ligament, so that the three form one undivided structure which covers the joint, except on the dorsal aspect. Its palmar surface is grooved for the flexor tendon, the sheath of which is connected to it at each side ; the other surface, looking to