ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 423 2. The superior perforating branches, three in number, frequently arise in common with the following branches ; they pass backwards through the upper extremities of the inner three interosseous spaces to inosculate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. 3. The palmar interosseous arteries, usually three in number, but very liable to variation, lie in front of the interosseous spaces, supply the muscles there, and inosculate at the clefts of the fingers with the digital Fig. 259.—Deep arteries of the wrist and palm (from R. Quain). J The anterior annular ligament of the wrist has been divided ; the lower parts of the common flexors and flexor of the thumb have been removed, and portions of these tendons are turned down upon the fingers with parts of the lumbricales muscles ; the superficial palmar arch is removed, and the interosseous muscles are exposed : a, ulnar nerve ; b, tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle; c, tendon of the flexor carpi radialis ; d, tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; 1, radial artery; 1', its lower part giving off the anterior carpal and superficial volar branches, the latter cut short; 2, ulnar artery; 3, anterior interosseous artery, passing behind the pronator quadratus muscle ; 4, radial artery, appearing deeply in the palm between the first and second metacarpal bones and passing into the deep palmar arch ; 5, deep branch of the ulnar artery, dipping between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti to join the deep arch, and accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve ; 6, a digital artery, rising from the first part of the superficial palmar arch ; 7, princeps pollicis, and 8, radialis indicis arteries; 9, 9, 9, interosseous branches of the deep palmar arch, proceeding down on the inter- osseous muscles to join the palmar digital arteries from the superficial arch. branches from the superficial arch. There is generally also a communicat- ing branch passing from the innermost interosseous artery, or from the deep arch itself, to the digital artery of the inner side of the little finger. It is by an enlargement of these small vessels that the deep palmar arch sometimes supplies the corresponding digital arteries when those derived from the superficial arch are small or absent. Varieties of the arteries of the hand.—The arteries of the hand frequently vary from their usual mode of distribution. (a) By far the larger number of deviations consist of a deficiency in either the radial or ulnar system of arteries, accompanied by a corresponding increase in the other ; and it may be observed that the defect is much more commonly on the part of the superficial, and the increase on the part of the deep set. (J) In the second and smaller class of variations a deficiency in one or other of the tw'o systems is supplied, either by the enlargement of branches which descend in front of the limb, as the superficial volar (from the radial), or the median artery (from the anterior interosseous, as shown in fig. 260), or by the enlargement of an interosseous branch (from the radial) on the back of the hand. In illustration of these general remarks, the following modes of arrangement of the vessels may be mentioned :—