MUSCULAR DISTRIBUTION. 049 The rhomboidci are supplied by a special branch from the anterior division of the fifth cervical nerve. The levator anguli scapula is supplied by branches from the anterior divisions of the third and fourth cervical nerves, and partly also by the branch to the rhomboid muscles. The serratus magnus has a special nerve, the posterior thoracic, derived from the fifth and sixth, sometimes also the seventh, cervical nerves. The subclavius receives a special branch from the place of union of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The pectorales are supplied by the anterior thoracic branches of the brachial plexus, the larger muscle receiving filaments from both these nerves, and the smaller from the inner only. 4. To muscles of the upper limb.-—Muscles of the shoulder.—The supraspinatus and infraspinatus are supplied by the suprascapular nerve ; the subscapularis by the upper and lower subscapular nerves ; the teres major by the lower subscapular ; and the deltoid and teres minor by the circumflex nerve. Posterior muscles of the arm and forearm.— The triceps, anconeus supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior are supplied by direct branches of the musculo-spiral nerve ; while the extensor carpi radialis brevior and the other extensor muscles in the forearm re- ceive their branches from the posterior interosseous' division of that nerve. Anterior muscles of the arm and forearm.—The coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve; the brachialis anticus likewise frequently receives a twig from the musculo-spiral nerve. The muscles of the front of the forearm are supplied by the median nerve, with the exception of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum, which are supplied by the ulnar nerve. Muscles of the hand.—The abductor and opponens pollicis, the outer half of the flexor brevis pollicis, and the two outer lumbricales muscles, are supplied by the median nerve : all the other muscles receive their nerves from the ulnar. 5. To muscles of the lower limb.—-Posterior muscles of the hip and thigh.—The gluteus maximus is supplied by the inferior gluteal nerve ; the gluteus medius and minimus, together with the tensor vaginae femoris, by the superior gluteal nerve. The pyriformis, gemelli, obtu- rator interims, and quadratus femoris receive special branches from the sacral plexus. The hamstring muscles are supplied by branches from the great sciatic nerve. Anterior and internal muscles of the thigh.—The psoas muscle is sup- plied by separate twigs from the lumbar nerves. The iliacus, quadriceps extensor femoris, sartorius and pectineus are supplied by the anterior crural nerve. The adductor muscles and the obturator externus are sup- plied by the obturator nerve, but the adductor magnus likewise receives a branch from the great sciatic. Anterior muscles of the leg and foot.—The muscles in front of the leg, together with the extensor brevis digitorum, are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Thzperoneus longus and brevis are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve.