MUSCLES OF TIIE THORAX. 318 up on opposite sides of the oesophagus, for which they thus bound an elongated aperture, meeting and again decussating to some extent anteriorly as they join the tendon. In the first decussation the fasciculus derived from the right crus usually passes in front of that from the left, which is much smaller and not unfrequently is altogether wanting. The lower ribs and ster- num are drawn upwards so as to expose and stretch the lower surface of the diaphragm, and the four- upper lumbar vertebrae have been exposed by the removal of all the muscles on the right side, and the dissection of the psoas magnus and quadratus lumborum on the left side. a, aorta, emerging from between the pillars on the first lumbar vertebra ; b, oesophagus, in its aperture between the muscular fibres, represented too far to the right; c, aperture for the inferior vena cava, situated at the place of union of tlie middle and right divisions of the tre- foil tendon ; d, fourth lumbar vertebra; e, e, twelfth ribs; /, /, eleventh ribs ; 1, ten- dinous part of the right crus; 2, the left; 3, tendinous arch formed by their union over the aorta, above which the decussation of the muscular fibres is seen; 4, second decussation of muscular fibres in front of the oesophageal opening ; 5, on the right side, the attachment of the arched ligaments to the first and second lumbar trans- verse processes ; from 5 to e, external arched ligament; -f, is in the hollow of the internal arched ligament from which the psoas has been removed ; 5, on the left side, external arched ligament; 6, the middle division of the trefoil tendon, from which in front pass the slips of attachment of the diaphragm to the ensiform process ; 7, the left, and 8, the right divisions of the trefoil tendon ; from the outer and anterior margins of these the costal slips of the muscle are seen diverging, and from the posterior border of the tendon the slips of origin proceeding from the arched ligaments and the tendinous arch of the crura; 9, part of the quadratus lumborum ; 10, part of the psoas magnus. Fig. 213. Fig. 213.—The dia- phragm, FROM BELOW (A. T.) 1 The internal arched ligament (ligamentum arcuatum internum) is a fibrous band which extends from the body to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and sometimes also to that of the second, and arches over the upper part of the psoas muscle. The external arched ligament (ligamentum arcuatum externum) extends outwards from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the last rib, arching over the front of the quadratus lumborum : it is the upper part of the fascia covering that muscle, somewhat increased in thickness. From botli arched ligaments muscular fibres take origin, and are directed upwards