615 MUSCULO-SPIEAL NERVE. the intercosto-humeral nerve, and extends, supplying filaments to the skin, nearly as far as the olecranon. This nerve is accompanied by a small cutaneous artery. B. Posterior branches. These consist of a fasciculus of muscular branches which supply the outer and inner heads of the triceps muscle and the anconeus. The branch of the anconeus is slender, and remarkable for its length; it descends in the substance of the triceps to reach its destination. C. External branches. (a) Muscular branches to the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior (the extensor carpi radialis brevior usually receiving its nerve from the posterior interosseous), and frequently a small twig to the outer part of the brachialis anticus. Fig. 346.—Dorsal cutaneous nerves of THE HAND. ^ The distribution delineated in this figure is not the most common, there being a larger branch of the ulnar nerve than usual : 1, the radial nerve descending be- side the radial vein ; 2 and 3, dorsal branches to the two sides of the thumb ; 4, branch to the radial side of the fore- finger ; 5, branch to the forefinger and middle finger, communicating with oue from the ulnar nerve ; 6, dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve ; 7, communicating twig ; 8, digital branch to the middle and ring fingers ; 9, branch to the ring and little fingers ; 10, branch to the inner side of the hand and little finger. (b) The external cutaneous branches, two in number, arise where the nerve pierces the external intermuscular septum. The upper branch, the smaller of the two, is directed downwards to the fore part of the elbow, along the cephalic vein, and distributes filaments to the lower half of the upper arm on its outer and anterior aspect. The lower branch extends as far as the wrist, distributing offsets to the lower half of the arm, and to the forearm, on their posterior aspect, and is connected near the wrist with a branch of the external cutaneous nerve. Radial nerve.—The radial nerve, continuing straight down from the musculo-spiral, is concealed by the long supinator muscle, and lies a little to the outer side of the radial artery. This position beneath the supinator is retained to about three inches from the lower end of the radius, where the nerve turns backwards beneath the tendon of the muscle, and becomes subcutaneous. It then divides into two branches, which ramify in the integument on the dorsal aspect of the thumb and the next two fingers in the following manner.