57 HYOID BONE. Fig. 48. Fig. 48.—The htoid bone, from before. § THE HYOID BONE. The hyoid bone, or os lingua, is situated at the base of the tongue, and may be felt between the chin and the thyroid cartilage. It is shaped like the letter u, and consists of a body and two pairs of cornua. It is suspended from the tips of the styloid processes of the temporal bones by a pair of slender bands, the stylo-hyoid ligaments, which in most animals form distinct bones. Though belonging rather to the neck than to the cranium or face, it may be suitably considered in this place. 1, the prominent part of the body ; 2, the great cornu ; 3, the small cornu. The locly, or central piece, basihyal, is com- pressed from before backwards, and lies in a plane directed downwards and forwards. Its anterior surface is convex, and marked in the middle by a vertical ridge, on each side of which are depressions for the attachment of muscles. Its posterior surface is concave, and is directed towards the epiglottis. The great cornua, thyroliyals, project backwards from the sides of the body ; they are compressed from above down and end in rounded extremities. The small cornua, or cornicula, ceratohyals, short and conical, project upwards and backwards from the place of junction of the body with the great cornua, and give attachment at their extremities to the stylo- hyoid ligaments. They are commonly in part, and not unfrequently ' entirely, cartilaginous. The great cornua are connected to the body by synchondrosis, and after middle life by bony union; the small cornua by a synovial articulation which is seldom anchylosed. THE SKULL AS A WHOLE. THE SUTURES. With the exception of the lower jaw, which is moveably articulated with the temporal bone, the bones of the skull are closely fitted together by more or less uneven edges or surfaces, there being interposed only a small quantity of fibrous tissue, continuous with the periosteum ; and to the lines of articulation the name suture is given. At the base of the cranium, however, in young subjects, the basilar process of the occipital is connected to the sphenoid, and the jugular process to the petrous, by a thin layer of cartilage ; the articulation is therefore synchondrosis, and when adult age is reached it becomes converted into bony union. The sutures are best named from the bones between which they lie, as, occipito-parietal, occipito-mastoid, fronto-ethmoidal, &c. Those around the parietal bones are the longest and most regular, and to these special names have been applied ; thus, above, between the two parietal bones is the sagittal or interparietal suture; posteriorly is the deeply serrated lambdoid or occipito-parietal suture; anteriorly is the coronal or fronto- parietal suture, most markedly serrated in the middle part of each lateral half, less so above where the frontal bone overlaps the parietal, and quite