277 MUSCLES OF THE LIPS AXD MOUTH. anomalies of Albums is a longitudinal muscular slip frequently present, lying beneath the common elevator of the lip and nose. It springs with the latter muscle from the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and ends below on the same bone in connection with the origin of the compressor naris. Actions.—The pyramidalis nasi muscle takes its fixed point from below and draws down the integument of the forehead, producing wrinkles across the root of the nose. The compressor naris, acting along with its fellow of the other side, depresses the cartilaginous part of the nose, and to some extent also com- presses the aim together. The actions of the other muscles are sufficiently indicated by their names; tho dilatation of the aim is seldom perceptible in natural inspiration, but is well-marked in dyspneea. MUSCLES OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. Around tlie orifice of the mouth is situated an orbicular muscle with concentric fibres, and this is joined by numerous other muscles which converge towards the aperture, viz., superiorly, the common elevator of the lip and nose already described, the proper elevator of the upper lip, the elevator of the angle of the mouth and the zygomatic muscles, laterally, the risorius and buccinator muscles, and interiorly, the depressor of the angle of the mouth and that of the lower lip ; and lastly, acting indirectly on the lower lip is the levator menti. The orbicularis oris muscle, or sphincter oris, consists of labial and facial parts. The labial or marginal part occupies the red part of the lips, and forms a slightly convex fasciculus of pale fine fibres which are free from bony attachment, and can be traced from one lip to another round the corner of the mouth. The facial part, thinner and wider than the other, blends by its outer border with the several muscles that converge to the mouth, and receives fibres from them, especially from the buccinator, the fibres of which are continued into the deeper part of the orbicularis. Besides these fibres it has others that are attached to the subjacent cartilage and bone ; viz., in the upper lip two bundles for each half ; and in the lower lip one for each. In the upper lip the outer slip, thin and weak, passes downwards, and is attached to the incisor fossa of the upper jaw-bone below the depressor alae nasi; while the other, thick and pointed, passes upwards and is fixed to the septum of the nose. In the lower lip the reinforcing fasciculus arises from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw external to the levator menti, and passing upwards and outwards towards the angle of the mouth, its fibres blend with the rest of the muscle. Relations.—The skin of the lips is closely connected to the inner part of the orbicularis oris muscle, whilst over the outer part fatty tissue is interposed be- tween them. The deep surface is in contact with the mucous membrane and the labial glands, as well as with the coronary arterial arch in each lip. The levator labii superioris proprius muscle arises from the superior maxillary bone immediately above the infraorbital foramen, and from the adjoining surface of the malar bone ; it passes downwards and a little inwards to be inserted into the skin of the upper lip and the orbicularis muscle. Relations.—At its origin this muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis palpe- brarum, but its greater part is subcutaneous ; it partly conceals the levator anguli oris, and beneath it the infraorbital vessels and nerve emerge from the canal of the same name. Its inner border is generally united with the common elevator . of the lip and nose.