390 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. thyroid axis. The cardiac nerves of the left side, descending from the neck, are close to the artery, and the cord of the sympathetic is behind. The second part op the subclavian artery, the short portion con- cealed by the anterior scalenus muscle, forms the highest part of the arch described by the vessel across the root of the neck. Somewhat less deeply placed than the first part, it is covered by the sterno-mastoid and anterior scalenus muscles, with layers of cervical fascia. Behind and below, it lies on the pleura. Fetation to veins and nerves.—The subclavian vein is farther forwards and lower than the artery, and is separated from it by the anterior scalenus muscle. The phrenic nerve, which descends obliquely inwards over that muscle, crosses the first part of the subclavian artery of the left side close to the muscle, while on the right side, not having quite reached the margin of the muscle at the level of the artery, it is usually separated by the muscle from the second part of the artery. The third part of the subclavian artery lies for its greater part in a small triangular space, the sides of which are formed by the omo- hyoid muscle and clavicle, and the base by the anterior scalenus. The artery is nearer to the surface here than elsewhere, being covered only by the platysma and layers of cervical fascia, but towards its termination it becomes deeper, sinking under the clavicle and the subclavius muscle. It rests upon the first rib ; and behind it is the scalenus medius. Fetation to veins.—The subdavian vein is still anterior to, and lower than, the artery. The external jugutar vein crosses in front of the artery, and receives on the outer side from the shoulder the two veins which ac- company the suprascapular and transverse cervical arteries. These veins in some cases form a sort of plexus over the artery. Fetation to nerves.—Above the vessel are placed the nerves of the brachial plexus, the lowest trunk, formed by the union of the last cervical and the first dorsal nerves, being behind and in close contact with it. The small nerve to the subclavius passes down over the artery, and the space which lodges the artery is crossed in front by the descending super- ficial branches from the cervical plexus of nerves. Branches.—Four branches are commonly described as arising from each subclavian artery. Of these, three, namely, the vertebral, the in- ternal mammary, and the thyroid axis, usually spring close together from the first part of the artery, near the inner side of the anterior scalenus muscle ; while the fourth branch, the superior intercostal, is generally found also internal to that muscle on the left side, but arising under cover of it, from the second part of the artery, on the right. The vertebral artery springs from the upper and back part of the subclavian, and ascends in the neck to reach the interior of the skull; the internal mammary proceeds from the lower side of the vessel, and descends into the fore part of the chest and abdomen ; the thyroid axis arises from the front of the artery, and divides into three branches, one of which, the inferior thyroid, is distributed in the fore part of the neck, while the other two, the suprascapular and the transverse cervical, pass outwards across the neck to the shoulder ; lastly, the superior intercostal and deep cervical arise by a common stem from the back part of the artery, and pass into the upper part of the thoracic wall and the posterior muscles of the neck. The deep cervical is reckoned by some writers as a fifth branch of the subclavian artery, but it usually rises in common with the superior intercostal artery.