BEL01V. (A. T.) | BOXES OF THE HEAD. Fig. 35.—The right temporal bone from Fig. 35. 40 inner side a deep groove, the digastric fossa, which gives attachment to the digastric muscle ; and internal to that is the slight occipital groove, for the occipital artery. The internal surface of the mastoid portion is marked by a deep sigmoid depression, which is part of the groove of the lateral sinus. A passage for a vein, of very variable size, the mastoid foramen, usually pierces the bone near its posterior margin, and opens into the groove. 2, 3, 3 x , 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, as in tlie preceding figures. 14, is at the apex of the petrous bone in the upper opening of the carotid canal ; 17, aqueduct of the cochlea ; 21, lower rough surface of the petrous bone ; 22, the lower opening of the carotid canal ; 23, the small foramen of Jacobson’s nerve ; 24, the jugular fossa, and within it, 25, the foramen of Ar- nold’s nerve ; 26, stylo-mastoid foramen—the figure is placed in the anterior part of the digastric fossa ; 27, groove of the occipital artery ; 28, place of the anterior opening of the osseous Eustachian canal. The petrous portion is named from its hardness. It contains the organ of hearing. It forms a three- sided pyramid, with its base directed outwards, one surface looking down- wards, and the other two turned towards the interior of the skull. Inferior surface, base, and apex.—At the base is the aperture of the ear. It forms a short canal, the external auditory meatus, directed inwards and a little forwards, narrower in the middle than at its extremities, and leading into the cavity of the tympanum, part of which is seen from the exterior in the macerated bone. It is bounded superiorly by the posterior root of the zygoma, and in the remainder of its circumference chiefly by the external auditory process, a curved uneven border, to which the cartilage of the ear is attached. This process is the thickened outer extremity of the tympanic plate, a lamina one surface of which forms the anterior and inferior wall of the external auditory meatus and the tympanum, while the other looks towards the glenoid fossa. The upper margin of the tympanic plate is separated from the squamous by the fissure of Glaser, while its lower margin descends as a sharp edge, the vaginal process, which partly surrounds the styloid process at its base. The styloid process is long and tapering, and is directed downwards and forwards. It is placed in front of the digastric fossa, and has immediately behind it the foramen which forms the outlet of the canal of the facial nerve, named stylo-mastoid from its position between the styloid and mastoid processes. Internal to the stylo-mastoid foramen is a small irregular surface, jugular facet, which articulates by synchondrosis with the jugular process of the occipital bone. In front of this comes a smooth and deep depression, the jugular fossa, which forms with the jugular notch of the occipital bone the jugular foramen. In front of the jugular fossa is the carotid foramen, the inferior extremity of the carotid canal;