ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 384 Fig. 239.—Semidiaqrammatic view of the arteries of the orbit and NEIGHBOUR- ING FARTS, WITH THEIll BRANCHES AND ANASTOMOSES (founded On Hirscllfeld and Leveilld, with additions). (A.T.) The outer wall of the orbit has been removed, the maxillary sinus is laid open, the eyelids are turned forwards, and the external and superior recti, and the superior oblique muscles have been partially removed : a, optic nerve ; b, hook, holding up the posterior part of the superior rectus muscle, the anterior part of which is left attached to the eyeball ; c, lachrymal gland, thrown up on the frontal bone ; d, inferior oblique muscle ; e, inferior rectus ; /, /, anterior and posterior portions of the external rectus ; g, maxil- lary sinus ; h, hook, holding up the eyelids, of which the deep surface is shown. I, internal carotid artery below the inferior aperture of the carotid canal, which is indicated higher up by a ring surrounding the artery ; 1', the part of the artery situated within the temporal bone, a second ring indicating the place of the foramen lacerum ; 1", the part of the artery situated on the sphenoid bone ; from this artery, 1, twig to the tympanum ; 2, twigs in the cavernous sinus ; 3, posterior communicating artery ; 4, middle cerebral; 5, anterior cerebral. II, basilar artery ; from this artery, t>, posterior cerebral ; 7, superior cerebellar : the accented numbers, 3', 4', 5', O', 7', indicate, on tbe left side, the arteries already named under the same numbers on the right side, which with these and the anterior communi- cating branch marked by +, complete the circle of Willis. III, upper part of the external carotid artery, dividing into III +, the superficial temporal, and III', III", the internal maxillary artery ; upon the latter artery, 1, inferior dental branch ; 2, middle meningeal ; 3, 3, masseteric and pterygoid branches ; 4, buccal ; 5, 5, anterior and posterior deep temporal; 6, posterior dental ; 7, infraorbital ; 7', branches of the same issuing upon the face ; 8, part of the internal maxillary which passes into the splieno-maxillary fossa. IV, facial artery, terminating at 11, in the angular, and giving off, at 12, the lateral nasal branch, and others which communicate with the infraorbital. In the orbit the following numbers indicate the ophthalmic artery and its branches : 1, the ophthalmic artery at its origin from the internal carotid ; 1', the same artery con- tinued on the upper and inner side of the orbit; 2, lachrymal branch ; 3, central artery of the retina ; 4, 4, posterior ciliary arteries ; 5, 5, upper and lower muscular branches ; 6, supraorbital; 7, 7', posterior and anterior ethmoidal arteries; 8, palpebral ; 8', 8", its superior and inferior divisions; .9, frontal ; 10, nasal, inosculating with the angular of the facial.