176 ARTICULATIONS OP THE LOWER LIMB. surface of the femur also a corresponding subdivision into three parts is to be recognised, the trochlear surface for the patella being separated from the convex tibial surfaces by two shallow transverse grooves which receive the fibro- cartilages in the extended position of the joint; but along the inner margin of the intercondylar fossa there is marked off from the rest of the internal condyle a narrow semilunar facet which is common to two of the articulations, being in contact with the spine of the tibia in extension, but with the innermost facet of the patella in extreme flexion. The movement of the patella on the femur is one partly of gliding, partly of coaptation. This is illustrated by a careful examination of the articular surface of the patella, which is not uniformly curved from above downwards, as it would be, were the movement one of gliding only, but exhibits on each side of the vertical ridge three very slightly depressed surfaces, separated by two slight transverse elevations, and along the inner margin a seventh area, upon which the transverse lines do not encroach (Goodsir.) When the knee is extended, and the patella drawn upwards by the extensor muscles, the two inferior facets of the patella are in contact with the upper margin of the trochlear surface ; in semiflexion the middle facets only are in contact with the femur ; in greater flexion, the superior parts of the patella are in contact with the lower parts of the trochlear surface; and in extreme flexion the patella, which has been gradually turned outwards by the increasing prominence of the inner condyle, rests by its innermost facet against the narrow surface on the outer margin of the internal condyle, and by its upper and outer facet on the fore part of the ex- ternal condyle. The articulation between each condyle and the opposed almost flat surface of the tibia, while resembling, is not exactly a hinge-joint, and ex- tension and flexion, the movements of which it is capable, are produced by a combination of gliding, rolling, and rotation. If the condyles of the femur be examined as they rest upon the tibia in the flexed position of the joint, it will be seen that the inner condyle is longer than the outer, and that its anterior portion inclines obliquely outwards, to reach the patellar surface. In the move- ment of extension the condyles move parallel to one another, both gliding and rolling until extension is nearly completed, and then, the anterior part of the rolling surface of the external condyle having already come into full contact with the tibia, the inner condyle continues to glide backwards, bringing its oblique anterior part into contact with the tibia, so that the bone is rotated inwards on the tibia, and over-extension is prevented, not merely by the tightness of the ligaments, but by the femur being pressed up against the tibial spine. In com- plete extension the lateral ligaments and the anterior crucial ligament are tight, while the posterior crucial ligament is in part relaxed ; in flexion, the posterior crucial ligament only is tightened, the others being relaxed. In extension of the joint no rotation of the leg is possible ; in the flexed condition a considerable amount is allowed. The semilunar fibro-cartilages being loosely attached to the head of the tibia, move forwards in extension and backwards in flexion of the joint; and further as the condyles rolling upon the tibia present successively to the condylar surfaces of that bone portions having different curvatures, each cartilage, like a moveable wedge, is contracted round the condyle during flexion of the joint and expanded during extension. In extension of the knee, as the weight of the body keeps the bones in their position, the extensor muscles are relaxed, the patella drops down from its position in contact with the femur, and the mucous liga- ment then comes into play, supporting the synovial membrane and fat below the patella. As the line of the centre of gravity of the body in the erect attitude descends in front of the axis of motion of the knee-joint, there is a tendency to over-extension of the joint, which is resisted by the tension of the whole of the anterior and part of the posterior crucial, as well as of the posterior and both lateral ligaments, and thus the maintenance of the erect attitude without mus- cular effort is partly due to the mechanism of the knee-joint. (See H. Meyer, Muller’s Archiv, 1853 ; Goodsir, “ Anatomical Memoirs,” ii. 220, 231 ; Langer, Sitzungsber. d. Acad, der Wissensck, Wien, 1858; Henke, Zeitschr, fur rat. Med., v. viii., 1859.)