682 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE TRUNK. seen, although covered for the most part by muscles, the former by the trapezius, the latter by the latissimus dorsi. The superior border cannot usually be distinguished, but the axillary border can be felt more or less distinctly through its thick muscular covering. With the arms hanging by the side, the upper angle of the scapula corresponds to the upper border of the second rib, or the interval between the first and second dorsal spines ; the lower angle to the seventh intercostal space (some- times the eighth rib) or the interval between the seventh and eighth dorsal spines ; and the root of the spine of the scapula to the interval between the third and fourth dorsal spines. The vertebral border of the bone is at the same time nearly but not quite perpendicular, its lower end being inclined a little outwards. At the inner end of the spine of the scapula, a slight depression in- dicates the triangular tendon in which the lower fibres of the trapezius end ; and a slight groove, which is seen at times passing upwards and outwards over the surface of the eminence formed by the erector spin*, in the direction of a line from one of the lowest dorsal spines to the triangular tendon, marks the lower edge of the muscle. Immediately above the spine of the scapula is a convex surface formed by the thickest part of the trapezius covering the supraspinatus muscle ; and above this, the sloping surface leading down from the neck to the shoulder is formed by the upper part of the trapezius, supported by the levator anguli scapulae and by fat. The lower ribs are to be felt through the latissimus dorsi, outside the edge of the erector spin* ; but it must be borne in mind that the twelfth rib is often very short and does not project beyond the margin of the erector muscle, so that the lowest rib that can then be felt is the eleventh. The ribs should, therefore, always be counted from above downwards, and not from below upwards. The lower end of the larynx and pharynx, and the commencement ot the trachea and oesophagus are about on a level with the interval between the sixth and seventh cervical spines. From this spot the trachea descends in the middle line, and divides opposite the fourth dorsal spine into the two bronchi, which are thence directed outwards and downwards, the right more transversely than the left. The apex of the lung, corresponding to the neck of the first rib, extends up to the level of the seventh cervical spine. Mesially, the lungs touch the sides of the bodies of the vertebra ; and interiorly, they reach down to the tenth dorsal spine, the pleura to the eleventh or even lower, as has already been described (p. 075). The oesophagus, from its commencement, inclines at first somewhat to the left, but regains the middle line about the fifth dorsal vertebra ; in its lower part it is deflected more considerably to the left, and it termi- nates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach on a level with (or a little above) the ninth dorsal spine. The pyloric orifice of the stomach is to the right of the twelfth dorsal spine. The arch of the aorta reaches the left side of the vertebral column just above the fourth dorsal spine, and the descending aorta passes downwards, gradually inclining to the front of the column, to bifurcate at a spot in, or close to, the middle line, on a level with the fourth lumbar spine. The cccliac axis arises opposite the twelfth dorsal, the renal arteries opposite the first lumbar spine. The convex surface of the spleen looks backwards and somewhat out-