631 SACRAL PLEXUS. nerves may be noticed first, before the other nerves and the numerous branches to which they give rise are described. FOURTH SACRAL NERVE. Only one part of the anterior division of this nerve joins the sacral plexus ; the remainder, which is more than half the nerve, supplies branches to the viscera and muscles of the pelvis, and sends downwards a connecting filament to the fifth nerve. (a) The visceral branches of the fourth sacral nerve are directed for- wards to the lower part of the bladder, and communicate freely with branches from the sympathetic nerve. Offsets are distributed to the neighbouring viscera, according to the sex. They will be described with the pelvic portion of the sympathetic nerve. These branches are usually associated with others proceeding from the third sacral nerve, and they are sometimes derived entirely from the latter nerve. Occasionally one or two filaments are added from the second sacral nerve. (Z>) Of the muscular branches, one supplies the levator cmi, piercing that muscle on its pelvic surface ; another enters the coccygeus ; while a third (/minorrhoiclal or perineal branch) ends in the external sphincter muscle of the anus. The last branch, after passing either through the coccygeus, or between it and the levator ani, reaches the perineum, and gives filaments also to the integument between the anus and the coccyx. FIFTH SACRAL NERVE. The anterior branch of this, the lowest sacral nerve, comes forwards through the coccygeus muscle opposite the junction of the sacrum with the first coccygeal vertebra ; it then descends upon the coccygeus nearly to the tip of the coccyx, where it turns backwards through the fibres of that muscle, and ends in the integument upon the posterior and lateral aspect of the bone. As soon as this nerve appears in front of the coccygeus muscle (in the pelvis) it is joined by the descending filament from the fourth nerve, and lower down by the small anterior division of the coccygeal nerve. It supplies filaments to the coccygeus muscle. THE COCCYGEAL NERVE. The anterior branch of the coccygeal, or, as it is sometimes named, the sixth sacral nerve, is a very small filament. It escapes from the spinal canal by the terminal opening, pierces the sacro-sciatic ligaments and the coccygeus muscle, and, being joined upon the side of the coccyx with the fifth sacral nerve, partakes in the distribution of that nerve. The connection between the fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal nerves is sometimes described as the coccygeal plexus. THE SACRAL PLEXUS. The lumbo-sacral cord (resulting as before described from the junction of the fifth and part of the fourth lumbar nerves), the anterior divisions of the first three sacral nerves, and part of the fourth unite to form this plexus. Its construction is simpler than that of the spinal nerve- plexuses already described, as the several nerves unite without much interlacement into an upper large, and a lower small, cord or band. The upper band is formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral cord with the