VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 496 (i) Sulmaxillary branches from the gland of that name join the facial vein either separately or in common with the submental vein. (j) The inferior 'palatine vein returns the blood from a plexus sur- rounding the tonsil and from the soft palate ; it passes downwards, being deeply seated by the side of the pharynx, to join one of the preceding, or terminate separately in the facial vein. The temporo-maxillary vein (posterior facial) is a short trunk, often presenting a plexiform disposition, which is formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins opposite the neck of the lower jaw. It descends, embedded in the substance of the parotid gland, on the outer surface of the external carotid artery to near the angle of the jaw, where it divides into two parts, the one of which inclines for- wards, passing either over or under the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles, to join the facial vein, while the other is directed backwards across the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to form with the posterior auricular the commencement of the external jugular vein. The temporal vein is formed close to the zygoma by the union of two vessels which are known as the superficial and middle temporal veins. The superficial temporal vein takes its origin in branches which spread over the top and side of the head, communicating with one another, with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side, with the frontal vein anteriorly, and with the occipital and posterior auricular veins behind, so as to form a wide-meshed plexus in the subcutaneous tissue. Descending over the temporal fascia, the branches are collected into two vessels corresponding to, although not closely accompanying, the divisions of the artery, superficial to which they are placed, and these joining in front of the ear give rise to the superficial trunk. The middle temporal vein is derived from a plexus in the temporal fossa, from which the deep temporal veins (passing to the pterygoid plexus) also issue, and piercing the temporal fascia near the zygoma unites with the superficial vein. The middle temporal vein is joined by a considerable orbital branch, which, after receiving some external palpebral veins from the eyelids, and communicating with the supraorbital and facial veins, passes backwards with the artery of the same name between the layers of the temporal fascia. The common temporal vein descends over the base of the zygoma, and sinks beneath the parotid gland to form by its junction with the internal maxillary vein the temporo-maxillary trunk. Other tributaries of the temporal vein are the anterior auricular veins from the external ear; branches from a plexus which surrounds the articulation of the lower jaw, and into which one or two small veins issuing from the tympanum by the fissure of Glaser pour their contents ; parotid branches from the gland ; and one or two transverse facial veins from the surface of the masseter muscle. The internal maxillary vein is a short vessel, often double, which passes backwards from the pterygoid plexus in the zygomatic fossa, in company with the first part of the internal maxillary artery, and joins the temporal vein behind the ramus of the jaw. The pterygoid plexus, corresponding to the second and third parts of the internal maxillary artery, is a close network of veins covering both surfaces of the external pterygoid muscle, and extending also over the inner surface of the internal pterygoid. It receives tributaries which are mostly companion veins of the branches of the internal maxillary artery. Thus, three or four deep temporal veins descend from the temporal muscle, and other