64 BONES OF THE HEAD. the stylo-mastoid foramen ; whilst internal to these are the jugular and anterior condylar foramina. The posterior division presents on each side of the foramen magnum, from within outwards, the occipital condyle, the rough surface for the rectus capitis lateralis muscle, the occipital groove of the temporal bone, the digastric fossa, and the mastoid process. Behind the foramen mag- num is the tabular part of the occipital bone, with its ridges and muscular impressions. THE INTERIOR OF THE CRANIUM. The walls of the cranium consist of two layers of compact bony sub- stance, the outer and inner tables, and an intervening cancellated substance, called diploe. The inner or vitreous table, has a smooth, close-grained, shining appearance, is hard and brittle, and presents irregular digitate impressions corresponding to the convolutions of the brain. The thinnest portions of the cranial wall are the cribriform plate of the etlnnoid and the orbital plates of the frontal bone, in both Fig. 53. — Internal BASE OP THE SKULL. (A. T.) \ 1, anterior fossa and roof of the orbit, as formed by the frontal bone ; between 2 and 3, the foramen caecum, crista galli and cribri- form plate of ethmoid ; 3, ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid ; 4, lesser wing of sphenoid terminating posteriorly in the ante- rior clinoid process, in- side which is the optic foramen; 5, placed in the pitnitary fossa, be- hind the olivary emi- nence and transverse groove of the optic com- missure ; 6, dorsum sellse, terminating in the posterior clinoid pro- cesses ; 7, foramen rotun- dum, in front of which, but not seen in the figure, is the sphenoidal fissure ; 8,foramen ovale; 9, foramen spinosum ; 10, on the petrous bone, near its apex, and to the inside of the hollow occu- pied by the Gasserian ganglion ; in front of this is the foramen lacerum ; rl, in front of the eminence of the superior semicircular canal, and behind the hiatus Fallopii ; 12, upper border of the petrous, marked by the superior petrosal groove ; 13, the posterior surface of the petrous —to the inside, tiie internal auditory meatus, behind, the scale of bone covering the aqueduct of the vestibule ; 14, basilar groove ; 15, anterior condylar foramen ; 16, jugular foramen ; 17, groove of the lateral sinus ; 18, internal occipital protuberance, and run- ning down from it the internal occipital crest; between 17 and 18, the upper part of the groove cf the lateral sinus, between 17 and 16, the lower part; 19, cerebellar fossa.