107 THE HIP-BOJTE. separated from the tuberosity by a short interval, the small sciatic notch, against the smooth margin of which glides the tendon of the obturator internus muscle. In front of this, on the external surface, a horizontal groove, occupied by the upper border of the obturator externus muscle, lies between the inferior margin of the acetabulum and the tuberosity. The tuberosity presents a rough pyriform surface continuous with the internal margin of the ramus, on the broader superior portion of which are two impressions, placed side by side, the outer for the semimembranosus, the inner for the conjoined origins of the biceps and semitendinosus, while the lower part is ridged and gives attachment to the adductor magnus muscle ; the inner border is sharp and prominent where the great sacro-sciatic ligament is attached, and along the outer margin is a faint elongated impression marking the place of origin of the quadratus femoris muscle. The ramus of the ischium is flattened like the inferior ramus of the pubis, with which it is continuous on the inner side of the obturator foramen. The acetabulum, or cotyloid cavity, is a cup-shaped hollow, looking- outwards, downwards, and forwards, and surrounded in the greater part of its circumference by an elevated margin, which is most prominent at the posterior and upper part ; while at the opposite side, close to the obturator foramen, it is deficient, forming the cotyloid notch. Its lateral and upper parts present a broad horseshoe-shaped smooth surface, which articulates with the head of the femur, and in the recent state is coated with cartilage, but the lower part of the cup and the region of the notch are depressed below the level of the articular surface, lodge a mass of fat and the interarticular ligament, and have no cartilaginous coating. Rather more than two-fifths of the acetabulum are formed from the ischium, less than two-fifths from the ilium, and the remainder from the pubis. The iliac portion of the articular surface is the largest, the pubic the smallest: the non-articular surface belongs chiefly to the ischium. The obturator or thyroid foramen, also called foremen ovale, is internal and inferior to the acetabulum. In the male it is nearly oval, with the long diameter directed downwards and outwards ; in the female it is more triangular, or narrowed at its lower part. In the recent state it is closed by a fibrous membrane, except in the neighbourhood of the groove in its upper margin. The hip-bone varies greatly in thickness at different parts. The strongest portions are found along the lines of greatest pressure ; these are, a very thick bar in the ilium between the auricular surface and the acetabulum, through which the weight of the body is transmitted to the thigh-bones, and a second formed by the ischium, ending in the tuberosity, which supports the body in the sitting posture. The ilium has also a thick rib running from the acetabulum to the most prominent portion of the iliac crest, while the bone between this and the auricular surface, corresponding to the deepest part of the iliac fossa, is very thin. The floor of the non-articular portion of the acetabulum is also a thin plate of bone, and this, as well as the thin part of the ilium, is occa- sionally perforated. The crest of the ilium is subcutaneous, and forms the boundary between the abdomen and the region of the hip. In front the pubic spine is to be felt through the integuments, and low'd’ down the inner