EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 367 ordinary branches, or by the union into a single trunk of two or three branches which are usually derived separately from the main artery : so also the number may be augmented by the transfer to this vessel of some branch not ordinarily derived from it, or by the addition of some unusual branch. The most frequent of these is an artery to the sterno-mastoid, generally derived from the occipital, and this is sometimes enumerated among the primary branches of the external carotid. Fig. 231.—Origin op the branches OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY : THE AVERAGE OP 121 DISSECTIONS (after Wyeth). (G.D.T.) Natural size. s. th, superior thyroid artery ; hy', its hyoid ; s. m', its sterno-mastoid branch ; l, lingual artery ; hy, its hyoid branch ; /, facial artery; t, its tonsillar, and i. p, its inferior palatine branch, arising in common ; a. ph, ascending pharyngeal artery; o, occipital artery; s. m, its sterno-mastoid branch; p. a, posterior auricular artery; p, parotid and muscular branches; i. m, internal maxillary artery; tr. f, transverse facial artery ; a. t, ante- rior, and p. t, posterior branch of the superficial temporal artery. BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 1. Superior thyroid artery (iv).—This, the first of the an- terior set of branches, is given off close to the commencement of the external carotid, immediately below the great cornu of the hyoid bone. From this point the artery curves forwards and downwards to the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage ; it then descends a short distance beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, furnishing offsets to those muscles; and, reaching the upper border of .the thyroid body, distributes branches to its substance, and communicates freely with the branches of the inferior thyroid artery. Branches.—Besides the branches furnished to the muscles which cover it, to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and to the thyroid body, the superior thyroid furnishes the following offsets, which have received distinctive names :— (a) The lvjoid, a small branch, running transversely inwards imme- diately below the hyoid bone, and supplying the soft parts in the neigh- bourhood. This little artery sometimes unites, across the middle line, with its fellow of the opposite side. (h) A superficial descending or sterno-mastoid branch, which passes downwards and backwards over the sheath of the carotid vessels, and