LINING FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. 333 If the thorax he fixed, the abdominal muscles maybe made to act on the pelvis ; thus, in the action of climbing, the trunk and arms being elevated and fixed, the pelvis is drawn upwards, either directly or to one side, as a preparatory step to the elevation of the lower limbs. Lining fascia of the abdomen.—On the inner surface of the trail of the abdomen is a membranous structure which lines the visceral aspect of the deepest stratum of muscles : it is divisible into two principal parts, the transversalis fascia and iliac fascia. The transversalis fascia is named from its position on the deep surface of the transversalis muscle. It is strongest in the lower part of the abdomen, where the muscular and tendinous support is somewhat weaker. Followed upwards from this situation, it becomes gradually slighter, and beyond the margin of the ribs it is continued into a thin areolar layer on the under surface of the diaphragm. Along the inner margin of the iliac crest, between the iliacus and transversalis muscles, the fascia is attached to the periosteum. For about two inches inwards from the anterior superior iliac spine, it is closely connected with the back of Poupart’s ligament, and is there directly continuous with the iliac fascia. Internal to the middle of Poupart’s ligament, the external iliac artery and vein, as they pass out into the thigh, intervene between the transversalis fascia and the iliac fascia, and from this point to the edge of Gimbernat’s ligament the transversalis fascia is prolonged down- wards under Poupart’s ligament, and over the vessels, forming the anterior portion of the funnel-shaped crural sheath. As this prolongation of the fascia passes under Poupart’s ligament it is strenghtened by a dense hand of fibres, constituting the deep crural arcli, which curves over the vessels, and is inserted into the pubic spine and the ilio- pectineal line behind the conjoined tendon of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles. It includes beneath it, internal to the vessels, a space between Gimbernat’s ligament and the vein, sufficiently large to admit the point of the little finger ; this is called the crural ring, and is the space through which a femoral hernia descends. About mid-way between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis, and about half an inch above Pouparfc’s ligament, the spermatic cord in the male, or the round ligament in the female, pierces the transversalis fascia. The opening thus made is called the internal or deep abdominal ring (internal inguinal aperture)-, the fascia above and internal to it is thin, but below and external to it is firm and thick, and the lower boundary of the opening is formed by a distinct crescentic edge, over which the cord or round ligament passes : from the margin of the opening a delicate funnel-shaped covering, the infundibuliform fascia, is prolonged downwards on the emerging structures, and this forms in cases of oblique hernia one of the coverings of the tumour. The iliac fascia, stronger than the transversalis fascia, lines the back part of the abdominal cavity, and covers the ilio-psoas muscle. The densest portion of its fibres is stretched transversely from the iliac crest, over the iliacus and psoas, to the brim of the pelvis, where it is attached to the iliac portion of the ilio-pectineal line. A thinner part of the membrane is continued upwards on the surface of the psoas, along the inner border of which it is attached to the sacrum, to the inter- vertebral discs and the neighbouring margins of the lumbar vertebrae as well as to the tendinous arcbes over the lumbar vessels (p. 240). Ex- ternally, it joins the anterior layer of the lumbar fascia, and above, it