BONES OF THE HEAD. 56 named the symphysis; this is continued below into the triangular elevation, menial prominence, forming the chin, a feature peculiar to the human skull. The superior or alveolar border is hollowed out into sockets for the teeth. The inferior border or base is thick and rounded, and projects beyond the superior. On the outer surface, on each side of the symphysis, below the incisor teeth, is a shallow depression, the incisor fossa, and more externally is the mental foramen, placed midway between the upper and lower borders and under the interval between the two bicuspid teeth ; it transmits the mental nerve and vessels. Close below the foramen is the external oblique line, running from the mental prominence upwards and backwards to the anterior margin of the ramus. The deep surface is marked, on each tide of the symphysis, along the inferior margin, by an oval depression, indicating the anterior attachment of the digastric muscle, and above this by two pairs of prominent tubercles, mental spines, placed close together, giving attachment, the upper pair to the genio-glossi, and the lower to the genio-liyoid muscles. An oblique prominent line, the mylo-hyoid ridge, leading from beneath the mental spines, upwards and backwards to the ramus, gives attachment to the mylo-hyoid muscle. Above this line is a smooth depression for the sublingual gland, and more posteriorly beneath it another for the submaxillary gland. The ramus is thinner than the body of the bone. Its posterior border in meeting the line of the base forms the angle of the jaw. The external surface is flat and uneven, and towards the angle stronger ridges mark the attachment of tendinous bundles of the masseter muscle. The internal surface presents at its middle the inferior dented foramen, leading into the dented canal, which lodges the dental nerve and vessels. Passing down from the sharp internal margin of this foramen is the mylo-hyoid groove (occasionally a canal for a short space) marking the passage of the mylo-hyoid nerve with an accompanying artery and vein. Behind this, inside the angle, is a marked roughness for the internal pterygoid muscle. The ramus is surmounted by two projections, the condyle and the coro- noid process, which are separated by a deep excavation, the sigmoid notch. The condyle is continued upwards from the posterior part of the ramus. It is supported by a constricted portion, the necJc, which presents anteriorly a depression, into which the external pterygoid muscle is inserted. The condyle is a transversely elongated convex articular process, whose major axis is directed obliquely, so that if prolonged it would meet with that of its fellow near the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. The coronoidprocess is continued vertically upwards in front, from the anterior margin of the ramus. It is triangular in shape, and gives attachment by its margin and inner aspect to the temporal muscle. At its base, in front, is a groove, in which the lower parts of the temporal and buccinator muscles are attached. The angle of the jaw is in the adult usually about 120°; in infancy it is as great as 140° or more; in strongly developed jaws it may be diminished to 110° or less; and in old and toothless jaws it is increased. These changes are connected with a variety of circumstances, among which may be noticed,—the development of the temporary and permanent teeth, the absorption of the alveolar arch after the loss of the teeth in advanced age, the elongation of the face and upper jaw towards adult life, and the varying state of development of the masseter muscles at different periods.