396 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. quently with the internal mammary ; rarely with the vertebral, superior inter- costal, or deep cervical artery. In some cases the axis is absent, the three branches arising separately from the subclavian. A. The inferior thyroid artery (iv) (fig. 246, p. 405), passes directly upwards in front of the vertebral artery, and after a short course bends in- wards and downwards behind the sheath of the large cervical vessels, and also behind the sympathetic nerve, the middle cervical ganglion of which, when present, often rests upon this vessel. The artery then makes another curve in the opposite direction, and is distributed to the lower part of the thyroid body. Its branches communicate freely with those of the superior thyroid artery, and with the corresponding artery of the other side. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches to the scalenus anticus, longus colli, inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and the infrahyoid muscles. (b) The ascending cervical branch (v) arises at the point where the inferior thyroid turns inwards behind the carotid artery; it proceeds upwards, close to the phrenic nerve, in the groove between the scalenus anticus and rectus anticus major, giving muscular branches to both, and a few which pass transversely outwards across the neck. These branches communicate with others sent outwards from the vertebral artery. To the spinal canal the ascending cervical artery sends two or three spinal branches, which enter the intervertebral foramina along the cervical nerves, and assist in supplying the bodies of the vertebrae, and the spinal cord and its membranes. (c) An inferior laryngeal branch of irregular size ascends with the recurrent nerve to the back of the larynx, and is distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane in that situation. (d) Tracheal branches ramify over the trachea, and anastomose below with the bronchial arteries. (e) One or more oesophageal branches descend upon the oesophagus into the chest, and anastomose with the oesophageal branches of the aorta. Varieties.—Tlie inferior thyroid artery occasionally arises as an independent branch from the subclavian ; rarely from the common carotid or the vertebral. Instances have occurred—very rarely, however—of the presence of two inferior thyroid arteries, one passing over the common carotid artery. The inferior thy- roid artery varies much in size, and occasionally is altogether wanting. The several thyroid arteries are developed in inverse proportion to one another, dimi- nution or absence of one being compensated for by an increased size of the others, or by an accessory artery, the thyroidca ima (p. 360). The ascending cervical artery is occasionally derived from the subclavian or from one of the other branches of that vessel, as from the transverse cervical or the suprascapular. It is sometimes much larger than usual, and takes the place of the occipital artery. A branch from it not unfrequently compensates for the small size of the deep cervical artery. B. The suprascapular artery (iv) (transverse scapular, or transverse humeral) arises from the thyroid axis, and courses from within outwards, being deeply placed at the root of the neck. At first it descends obliquely towards the clavicle, resting upon the scalenus anticus, and covered by the sterno-mastoid muscle ; it then crosses the subclavian artery, and runs transversely outwards behind and parallel with the clavicle to the upper border of the scapula, where it is joined by the suprascapular nerve. Here the nerve passes through the suprascapular notch and beneath the ligament of the same name, but the artery usually crosses over that band, and inclining downwards enters the supraspinous fossa. It gives off