479 POSTERIOR TIBIAE ARTERY. 4. A communicating branch passes transversely, beneath the flexor lone;us hallncis muscle, between the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries, about an inch above the ankle-joint. A second loop of communication Fig. 283.—Deep view op the arteries op the hack of the right leg (from Tieclemann). \ a, lower part of tlie adductor magnus muscle ; b, origin of the inner head of the gastrocnemius ; c, outer head and plantaris ; d, tendon of the semimembranosus muscle; e, popliteus ; f, fibular origin of the soleus ; rj, peroneus longus ; h, flexor longus hallucis; i, flexor longus digi- torum ; 1, upper part of the popliteal artery ; 2, origin of the superior articular branches ; 3, origin of the inferior articular branches ; the middle or azygos branch is seen between these numbers ; 4, division of the popliteal artery into anterior and posterior tibial arteries; 5, 5', posterior tibial; at 5', the internal malleolar branches are seen passing inwards, and the communicating branch outwards ; 6, peroneal artery; 6', its continuation as posterior peroneal; 7, calcaneal branches ; 8, external branches of the meta- tarsal of the dorsal artery of the foot. Fig. 283. between these vessels is sometimes present, lying in the fat beneath the tendo Achillis. 5, One or two small internal malleolar branches pass inwards beneath the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles, and ramify over the internal malleolus, where they anastomose with similar offsets from the anterior tibial artery. 6. The peroneal artery (iv) lies deeply along the back part of the leg, close to the fibula. Arising from the posterior tibial artery about an inch below the lower border of the popliteus muscle, it inclines at first slightly outwards towards the fibula, being covered by the soleus and the deep layer of fascia, and resting upon the tibialis posticus muscle ; it then descends verti- cally along the inner border of the bone and under cover of the flexor longus hallucis, being contained in a fibrous canal between the origins of that muscle and the tibialis posticus. Oppo- site the lower end of the interosseous space it gives off the anterior peroneal branch, and is thence continued downwards, being much re- duced in size and taking the name of posterior peroneal artery, over the lower tibio-fibular articulation and behind the external malleolus, to terminate in branches which ramify on the outer surface and back of the os calcis. The peroneal artery is accompanied by two vencc comites, and, until it enters the flexor longus hallucis, by the branch of the posterior tibial nerve to that muscle. Branches—(a) Muscular branches pass from the peroneal artery to the soleus, tibialis posticus, flexor longus hallucis, and peronei muscles.