THE SCAPULA. S7 one in front of the superior angle and another at the inferior angle, and these, together with a line running close to the vertebral border and uniting them, give attachment to the serratus magnus muscle. The posterior surface or dorsum is divided by the spine into two unequal parts, the upper of which is the supraspinous fossa, the lower is the infraspinous fossa. The supraspinous fossa is occupied by the supraspinatus muscle. The infraspinous fossa, much the larger, presents in the middle a convexity corresponding to the concavity of the venter, and outside this a concavity bounded by the prominent axillary border. It is marked near the inner border by short lines, corresponding to tendinous septa of the infraspinatus muscle, and is occupied by that muscle in the greater part of its extent. Adjacent to the axillary border, in its middle third, is a narrow interval giving attachment to the teres minor muscle; and beneath this, extending over the inferior angle, is a raised oval surface, from which the teres major arises. These spaces are separated from each other and from that of the infra- spinatus muscle by lines which give attachment to aponeurotic septa. The spine of the scapula is a massive triangular plate of bone project- ing backwards and upwards from the dorsum. Commencing at the internal border near its upper fourth, it extends outwards and a little upwards to the middle of the neck of the scapula, and becoming gradually elevated towards its external extremity, it turns forwards and is continued into the acromion process. The upper and lower surfaces, smooth and concave, form part respectively of the supra- and infraspinous fossae. It presents two unattached borders, the more prominent of which is subcutaneous and arises from the vertebral border of the bone by a smooth, flat, triangular surface, over which the tendon of the inferior part of the trapezius muscle glides, as it passes to be inserted into a rough thickening beyond. In the rest of its extent this border is rough, broad, and serpentine, giving attachment by its superior margin to the trapezius, and by its inferior to the deltoid muscle. The external border, short, smooth, and concave, arises near the neck of the scapula, and is continuous with the under surface of the acromion, enclosing the great scapular notch between it and the neck of the bone. The acromion process, projecting outwards and forwards from the extremity of the spine over the glenoid cavity, forms the summit of the shoulder. It is an expanded process, compressed from above downwards. Its superior surface, rough and subcutaneous, is continuous with the prominent border of the spine ; its inferior surface, smooth and concave, is continuous with the superior surface and external border of the spine. On its internal border anteriorly is a narrow oval surface for articulation with the clavicle. The head bears the articular surface for the humerus, known as the glenoid cavity. This is a slightly concave surface, looking outwards, forwards, and slightly upwards. It is pyriform in shape, with the narrow end uppermost, and gently incurved in front. Its rim is flat- tened, and in the recent state is covered by a fibrous band, the glenoid ligament, which deepens its concavity ; at its upper extremity is a small mark indicating the attachment of the long head of the biceps muscle. The neck, supporting the head, is most distinct posteriorly, where it forms with the spine the great scapular notch, leading from the supra-