382 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. longation of the carotid sheath. The vessel is crossed by the occipital artery beneath the digastric, and by the posterior auricular artery above that muscle. The pneumo-gastric nerve and the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic are placed deeply behind the artery ; the hypoglossal nerve crosses it superficially near the lower border of the digastric, and higher up the glossopharyngeal nerve and the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric pass forwards between the external and internal carotids; while the superior and external laryngeal nerves are internal to both vessels. Close to the base of the skull the glossopharyngeal, pneumo- gastric, spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves issue between the artery and its companion vein. In the carotid canal, the artery first ascends for a short distance, being placed immediately in front of the tympanum and internal ear, then passes horizontally forwards and inwards to the foramen lacerum, where it turns upwards in the groove of the sphenoid internal to the lingula (p. 43). It is here accompanied by the ascending branch of the upper cervical ganglion of tie sympathetic. Within the cranium, the iuterual carotid artery lies along the floor of the cavernous sinus as it passes forwards in the groove on the side of the body of the sphenoid ; it is surrounded by filaments of the sympathetic, the sixth nerve is in contact with its outer side, and it receives, in company with these nerves, an investment from the thin lining membrane of the sinus. Perforating the upper wall of the sinus on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, the artery ascends between the second and third nerves to the anterior perforated spot at the base of the brain, where it divides into its two terminal branches. Branches.—In the neck the internal carotid artery gives usually no branch. AYhile in the carotid canal it sends a small offset to the tympanum, which anastomoses with the other tympanic arteries. Within the cavernous sinus some small branches proceed from it to supply the adjacent dura mater, the pituitary body and the Gasserian ganglion. Opposite the anterior clinoid process, the internal carotid gives off the ophthalmic artery ; and at the Sylvian fissure of the brain, before dividing into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, it gives off or is joined by the posterior communicating artery, a slender anastomotic branch which unites the internal carotid with the posterior cerebral branch of the basilar artery. Varieties.—The cervical part of this artery is sometimes tortuous. In some very rare cases the internal carotid has arisen directly from the arch of the aorta or from the division of the innominate artery (p. 365). A few examples of its entire absence are recorded. Its lower part occasionally gives origin to the occipital or the ascending pharyngeal artery ; and in one case its intracranial portion furnished a considerable meningeal offset to the posterior fossa of the skull (Curnow, Journ. Anat. viii., 155). A large communicating branch has been seen passing from the part of the internal carotid within the cavernous sinus backwards to the trunk of the basilar artery (R. Quain, Duret, Tareniecki.). BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 1. Ophthalmic artery (v).—This artery, arising from the internal carotid below the anterior clinoid process, enters the orbit by the optic foramen, below and to the outer side of the optic nerve. It soon changes its direction, passing over, seldom under, the nerve to reach the inner wall of the orbit, along which it runs forwards between the superior