473 FEMORAL ARTERY. Varieties of the femoral artery and its branches.—In some rare cases the main artery of the lower limb has been found springing- from the internal iliac trunk, being continued from a greatly enlarged sciatic artery, and descending with the great sciatic nerve along the back of the thigh to the popliteal space, where its connections and ending are similar to those of the vessel having the normal arrangement. The external iliac artery is then small, and terminates in the profunda and other branches usually derived from the femoral artery. Six examples of this deviation from the normal condition of the vessels are recorded (see Henle, op. cit.. p. 303). In one instance met with by Tiedemann (tab. 51, fig. 2) the external iliac artery divided near Poupart’s ligament into two parts, which united again at the level of the small trochanter. A somewhat similar case is figured by Dubrueil (“ Anoma- lies arterielles,” pi. xv), in which a vas aberrans is given off from the lower end of the external iliac artery, and descends on the inner side of the main trunk, to join the femoral about an inch below the origin of the profunda. Several in- stances are recorded of division of the femoral artery, below the origin of the profunda, into two vessels which reunite a variable distance above the opening in the adductor magnus, so as to form a single popliteal artery. To the first case in which this variety was observed special interest is attached, inasmuch as it was met with in a patient, operated upon by Charles Bell for popliteal aneurism (Bond. Med. and Phys. Journ., lvi., 1S26, p. 134 : the preparation is in the Museum of University College. London). Branches.—The deep femoral artery is sometimes given off from the inner side of the parent trunk, and more rarely from the back part of the vessel. It has also been found in two or three instances arising from the front of the femoral artery, and winding inwards over the femoral vein to gain its usual position below. Occasionally its origin is less than one inch, or more than two inches, below Poupart’s ligament. It was found by R. Quain, in one instance arising above Poupart’s ligament, and in another four inches below that band ; but in the latter case the internal and external circumflex arteries did not arise from the profunda. As a very rare occurence, absence of the profunda has been met with, the circumflex and perforating arteries arising separately from the femoral trunk (Hyrtl, “ Lehrbuch,” 14th Ed., p. 1015 ; A. H. Young, Journ. Anat., xiii, 154). The external circumflex artery sometimes arises directly from the femoral ; or it may be represented by two branches, of which, in most cases, one proceeds from the femoral, the other from the profunda; both branches, however, occa- sionally arise from the profunda, much more rarely from the femoral artery. The internal circumflex artery may be transferred to the femoral above the origin of the profunda. Examples have also been met with in which the internal circumflex arose from the epigastric, from the circumflex iliac, or from the external iliac artery. In a large number of cases (378) examined by R. Quain, the profunda failed to give the internal circumflex in 22 per cent., the external circumflex in 16 per cent., and both circumflex arteries in 3 per cent. (op. cit., p. 522). The observations of J. Srb, on 200 limbs, agree closely with those of R. Quain (Oesterr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 18G0). Many occasional branches have been seen arising from the femoral, as the deep epigastric, circumflex iliac, or an aberrant obturator artery ; more rarely the ilio- lumbar, or the dorsal artery of the penis. The great saphenous artery is a branch that has been occasionally met with. It arises either above or below the origin of the profunda, and running at first between the vastus internus and adductor magnus muscles it issues from the lower end of Hunter’s canal to reach the inner aspect of the knee, whence it accompanies the internal saphenous vein even as far as the internal malleolus. This vessel is normal in the rabbit and many other mammals (W. Krause). SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE FEMORAL ARTERY. Ligature of the common femoral artery is occasionally practised, and has been successful in several cases. The proximity of the epigastric and circumflex iliac branches of the external iliac artery, the presence of a number of small anastomos- ing branches springing from the trunk itself, and the possibility of the profunda,