275 MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS AND EYEBROWS. masseter, points to the buccinator; 13', buccinator of the right side, a portion of the parotid duct passing through the muscle ; 14, levator anguli oris, seen also on the left side behind the zygomatieus minor ; 15, sterno-mastoid, its sternal head, and 15', its clavi- cular head ; 16, sterno-hyoid ; 17, posterior, 17', anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and 17", portion of the deep fascia binding down its central tendon ; 18, sterno-thyroid ; 19, thyro-hyoid ; 20, part of constrictors of pharynx ; 22, trapezius ; 25, levator scapulae ; 26, scalenus posticus ; 27, scalenus medius ; 28, scalenus anticus ; 29, 29', pectoralis major ; 30, pectoralis minor. many anatomists as only a deep origin of tlie palpebral part of the orbi- cularis muscle. It consists of a thin layer of fibres, which springs from the lachrymal crest behind the sac and, passing outwards and forwards, divides into two slips which are continued behind the lachrymal canals into the ciliary bundles of the orbicularis. The corrugator supercilii is a small, deeply-coloured muscle, placed at the inner side of the eyebrow, under cover of the orbicularis and frontalis muscles. It arises from the inner extremity of the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone ; thence its fibres proceed outwards and upwards, diverging somewhat, and end about the middle of the orbital arch, by passing between the bundles of the orbicularis and frontalis, and becoming inserted into the deep surface of the skin of the eyebrow. Relations.—This muscle rests upon the frontal bone, and it crosses the supra- trochlear branch of the ophthalmic nerve and the accompanying- vessels, as they emerge from the orbit. The levator palpebrse superioris lies in the upper part of the orbit. Its tendon only is seen in the dissection of the npper eyelid, in which it forms a broad expansion which curves downwards, and ends under cover of the orbicularis muscle and palpebral ligament by becoming blended with the fibrous tarsus. It will be fully described along with the muscles of the orbit (p. 281). Actions.—The palpebral part of the orbicularis closes the eyelids, the upper lid ordinarily moving much more freely than the lower. The upper half of the orbital part depresses the eyebrow, and stretches the skin of the forehead, opposing the frontalis muscle ; the lower half of this part raises the skin of the cheek, and gives rise to wrinkles below and outside the eye. The whole muscle comes into play in forcible closure of the eye, the orbital part then drawing up the surround- ing skin and pressing the lids firmly together, while they at the same time are carried somewhat inwards towards the fixed part of the muscle. In closing the lids, as in winking, the contraction of the palpebral part of the orbicularis carries forwards the internal tarsal ligament and anterior wall of the lachrymal sac, which is thus dilated and sucks in the tears. The tensor tarsi muscle, accord- ing to one view, contracts simultaneously with the orbicularis, and draws back- wards the puncta lachrymalia, disposing them more favourably for the admission of the tears ; but it appears more probable that the tensor alternates in its action with the orbicularis, and that, by drawing backwards the tarsal ligament, it com- presses the sac, and so propels the tears along the nasal duct into the nose. The corrugator muscle draws the skin of the outer part of the forehead downwards and inwards, producing longitudinal furrows at the inner end of the eyebrow, as in frowning. The upper eyelid is supported by the levator palpebree, and droops when that muscle is paralysed. On the other hand, paralysis of the orbicularis is attended by an inability to close the eyelids. MUSCLES OF THE NOSE. Under this head may be conveniently grouped not only the compressor naris and smaller muscles which act upon the nose alone, but also the pyramidalis nasi which acts on the forehead and the common elevator of the lip and wing of the nose. t 2