402 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. first and second dorsal, or even below the second. It has been seen to pass between the first rib and the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra. This artery is not unfrequently supplemented by a branch of the ascending cervical artery, turning backwards between two of the cervical transverse processes ; or by an enlarged dorsal branch from the superior intercostal artery in the first space ; or in rare instances by an offset from the posterior scapular or inferior thyroid artery. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The depth of the subclavian artery, its intimate and numerous connections with important parts, and the large size of its branches, render operations on this vessel peculiarly difficult. The third division of the artery, situated beyond the anterior scalenus muscle, is the part which is most favourably circumstanced for the application of a ligature, inasmuch as the vessel is here nearest to the surface, and the spot selected is remote from the origin of the large branches. The artery is generally easy of access above the clavicle while the parts are in their natural position, but when they are displaced by an aneurism in the axilla, the clavicle may be so much elevated by the tumour as to be placed in front of the vessel, or even above it; and such a condition may require special modifications of the operation. In the operation of passing a ligature round the third part of the subclavian artery, an incision is made a little above and parallel to the middle third of the clavicle, and in doing this, if the integument be drawn downwards over the clavicle, the parts covering the bone may be divided with freedom. Along with the integument, the platysma and some descending superficial nerves are divided in this incision, but no vessel is endangered, except in those rare instances in which the cephalic vein or the external jugular crosses over the clavicle. It will, in some cases, be an advantage to add a short vertical incision, directed downwards to the middle of the horizontal one. Should the clavicular attachment of the stemo-mastoid or trapezius muscle be broader than usual, so that the interval between the two is insufficient for the farther steps of the operation, a portion of one, or even of both muscles, must be divided. The external jugular vein, joined by the veins from the shoulder, is usually over the artery, and it must be held aside, or it may be necessary to divide it. If divided, the lower end of the vessel requires the application of a ligature as well as the upper one, in consequence of the reflux of blood from the sub- clavian vein, and the danger of air being drawn into the circulation. The omo- hyoid muscle will also be drawn upwards if necessary. The artery is now covered only by the areolar tissue of the supraclavicular fossa, and a layer of the deep cervical fascia (upper part of the axillary sheath), and in making the deeper dissection to reach the vessel, it will be best to divide these structures cautiously with a director or some blunt instrument, in order to avoid wounding the veins which pass inwards above the clavicle. At this stage of the operation the anterior scalenus muscle should be sought for, as it forms the best guide to the artery. This will be found descending nearly vertically behind the clavi- cular head of the sterno-mastoid, and if the finger be carried down along the outer border of the muscle, it will pass over the front of the artery, and reach the more or less prominent scalene tubercle on the upper surface of the first rib, which in cases of difficulty is of service as a farther guide to the vessel. The part of the artery to which the ligature is to be applied, is placed above, and at the same time somewhat to the outer side of and behind the tubercle. The nerves of the brachial plexus are here very close to the artery, and great care is necessary in separating the lowest trunk from the vessel. The artery is to be distinguished by its becoming flattened beneath the finger, while the nerves have a rounded cord-like feel, and (in the living subject) by its pulsation, although it is to be observed that this movement is frequently transmitted to the adjacent nervous trunk owing to the close connection of the two structures. The needle should be passed from behind forwards (0. Heath) in order to avoid the nerves, as the vein is placed at some little distance below and in front of this