POSTERIOR DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. 593 the several intervertebral foramina, where they are directed horizontally outwards. The nerves of the cauda equina run in the direction of the spinal canal. Division of the nerves.—The two roots of each of the spinal nerves unite immediately beyond the ganglion, and the trunk thus formed separates, as already mentioned, into two divisions, an anterior and a posterior, which are called primary branches or divisions, and each of which contains fibres proceeding from both the anterior and posterior roots. POSTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS OP THE SPINAL NERVES. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves are, with few exceptions, smaller than those given to the fore part of the body. Springing from the trunk which results from the union of the roots of the nerve in the intervertebral foramen, or frequently by separate fasciculi from the two roots, each turns backwards at once, and soon divides into two parts, distinguished as external and internal, distributed to the muscles and the integument behind the spine. The first cervical, the fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal are the only nerves the posterior divisions of which do not separate into external and internal branches. SunocciPiTATi nerve.—The posterior division of the suboccipital nerve, slightly larger than the anterior, emerges over the arch of the atlas, between this and the vertebral artery, and enters the space bounded by the larger rectus and the two oblique muscles, where it divides into branches for the surrounding muscles. (a) One branch descends to the inferior oblique, and gives a filament, through or oyer the fibres of that muscle, to join the second cervical nerve. (b) Another ascends over the rectus posticus major muscle, supplying it and the smaller rectus. (c) A third enters the superior oblique muscle. (cl) A fourth sinks into the complexus, where that muscle covers the nerve and its branches. Variety.—A cutaneous branch is occasionally given to the back of the head ; it accompanies the occipital artery, and is connected beneath the integument with the great and small occipital nerves. Cervical nerves {excepting the suboccipital). — The external branches give only muscular offsets, and are distributed to the splenius and the slender muscles prolonged to the neck from the erector spinse, viz., the cervicalis ascendens, and the transversalis colli with the trachelo-mastoid. That of the second nerve is the largest of the series of external branches of the cervical nerves, and is often united to the corresponding branch of the third. - The internal branches, larger than the external, are differently disposed at the upper and the lower parts of the neck. That of the second cervical nerve is named, from its size and destination, the great occipital, and requires separate notice. The rest are directed inwards to the spinous processes of the vertebra?. Those derived from the third, fourth, and fifth nerves pass over the semispinalis and beneath the complexus, VOL. I. Q Q