MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 228 are visible only on the palmar aspect of the hand, each one arising from the corresponding lateral surface of the body of the metacarpal bone of the finger on which it acts : they terminate, like the dorsal muscles, in small tendons inserted partly into the bases of the first Fig. 174. Fig. 175. Fig. 174.—The right hand from behind, showing the dorsal interosseous muscles (R. Quain). f The tendons of the extensor muscles have been removed as far as the distal ends of the metacarpal bones. 1, 2, 3 and 4, the dorsal interosseous muscles, in order from the radial side inwards ; their expanded insertion in connection With the extensor tendons, is shown upon the first phalanges. Fig. 175.—The right hand from before, showing the palmar interosseous muscles (R. Quain). f- 1, 2, 3, refer to the first, second, and third palmar interosseous muscles. phalanges at the side, and partly into the extensor tendons. The first palmar interosseous muscle belongs to the ulnar side of the index finger; the others are placed on the radial sides of the ring and little fingers. Varieties of the short muscles of the hand.—The palmaris brevis varies greatly in the strength of its muscular fibres, and somewhat also in then- length and direction. It is seldom entirely absent (in the proportion of one in forty-five out of six hundred dissections by Macalister). It is sometimes found running into the flexor minimi digiti. The abductor pollicis is often divided into an outer and an inner part—a condition described by Scemmerring as normal. Accessory slips are also found joining the muscle ; frequently from the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis or palmaris longus, more rarely from the extensor carpi radialis longior (or accessorius), from the styloid process or opponens pollicis. Another slip, which is frequently present, springs from the skin over the upper part of the thenar eminence. The flexor brevis pollicis is a variable muscle, especially in its deeper belly, which shows a tendency to become more or less connected with the adductor pollicis ; and in the same manner the latter muscle is subject to variation in its extent in inverse proportion to that of the flexor brevis. The abductor minimi digiti is found occasionally divided into two or even three slips ; in other cases it is united with the flexor brevis. An accessory head is not unfrequently present, arising from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, the