385 CEREBRAL ARTERIES. the conjunctiva, the caruncle and the lachrymal sac, and then pass out- wards between the orbicularis muscle and the tarsus, to form arches, one near the free margin of each lid, with the palpebral branches of the lachrymal artery. (h) The nasal branch courses forwards above the internal tarsal liga- ment to the root of the nose, where it ramifies, maintaining a free com- munication with the nasal and angular branches of the facial artery. (i) The frontal artery turns upwards round the inner end of the orbital arch, and is distributed to the integument, muscles and periosteum of the mesial part of the forehead, anastomosing with the supraorbital artery and with the corresponding artery of the other side. Varieties.—The lachrymal artery occasionally, and in rarer cases a large part or even the whole of the ophthalmic itself, arises from the middle meningeal artery ; or the ophthalmic artery has been seen to give off the middle meningeal (p. 381). The nasal branch is sometimes large, and supplies a deficiency of the facial artery. 2 and 3. Cerebral arteries.—The terminal branches of the internal carotid artery supply the anterior two-thirds of the cerebrum. The anterior cerebral artery (iv), commencing at the division of the Fig. 240.—The distri- Fig. 240. BUTION OF THE INTER- NAL CAROTID AND VER- TEBRAL ARTERIES AT TnE BASE OF THE BRAIN (altered from Ilirschfeld and Leveill^). (A. T.) 4 On the left side a por- tion of the temporo-sphe- noidal lobe of the cerebrum has been removed, so as to open up the fissure of Sylvius and expose the island of Reil ; and the left half of the cerebellum has been removed to show the lower surface of the posterior part of the cere- bral hemisphere: 1, placed on the optic commissure, points to the divided stem of the left internal carotid artery; 2, left anterior cerebral artery, exposed fully by the removal of the optic nerve ; 2', placed on the genu of the corpus callosum between the two anterior cerebral arteries ; x , placed on the lamina cinerea in front of the optic commissure, marks the anterior communicating artery ; 3, left middle cerebral artery, passing into the fissure of Sylvius and distributing its branches over the convolutions of the island of Reil and others beyond ; 4, placed between the infundibulum and the corpora albicantia, points by a line to the left posterior communicating artery ; 5, basilar artery ; G, left posterior cerebral artery ; 7, placed on the pons Varolii, points to the right superior cerebellar artery ; 8, anterior cerebellar artery ; between 7, and 8, one of the largest of the transverse branches of the basilar artery; 9, 9, right and left vertebral arteries ; 10, inferior cerebellar artery ; 11, anterior spinal arteries. VOL. I. C C