BONES OF THE HEAD. 62 The temporal fossa is bounded above by the temporal crest of the frontal bone and the temporal line of the parietal. It has been pointed out by Ilyrtl that the latter line is double, and the two lines can usually be traced readily enough ' on the side of the skull. The inferior line turns down posteriorly to become continuous with the posterior root of the zygoma on the temporal bone, it marks the limit of the temporal muscle, and is the boundary of the temporal fossa; the upper line, a variable distance above this, gives attachment to the temporal fascia, and is the line of division between the upper and lateral surfaces of the skull. The zygomatic fossa is an irregular hollow in part covered by the ramus of the lower jaw ; its wall is formed internally by the external pterygoid plate ; superiorly by the lower part of the great wing of the sphenoid, in which are seen the foramen ovale and foramen spinosum, and by a small part of the squamous of the temporal; and anteriorly by the zygomatic surface of the superior maxilla, presenting the orifices of the posterior dental canals. Interiorly the external pterygoid plate comes nearly into contact with the superior maxillary bone, but is almost always separated from it by a thin portion of the pyramidal process of the palate bone ; superiorly, it is divided from it by t hepterygo-maxillary fissure, a vertical slit which leads above into the spheno-maxillary fossa, but is closed internally by the vertical plate of the palate bone. At the upper part of the zygomatic fossa the horizontal spheno-maxillary fissure leads into the orbit. The splicno-maxillary fossa is the space which lies in the angle between the pterygo-maxillary and the spheno-maxillary fissures. It is bounded posteriorly by the pterygoid process and lower part of the anterior surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, anteriorly by the superior maxillary bone, and internally by the vertical plate of the palate bone. Into this narrow space five foramina open, viz., on the posterior wall, the foramen rotundum, the Yidian canal, and, between the sphenoidal pro- cess of the palate bone and the root of the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo-palatme canal; on the inner wall, the spheno-palatine foramen formed by the palate bone and the sphenoid, and opening into the nasal cavity; and interiorly, the posterior palatine canal, which leads down to the palate between the palate and superior maxillary bones. The external base of the skull, excluding the lower jaw, is divisible into three parts, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior division consists of the palate and the alveolar arch. It is traversed longitudinally by a mesial suture, and transversely by that between the maxillary and palate bones. Anteriorly, in the middle line, is the anterior palatine canal, with the four smaller foramina contained within it; posteriorly, on each side, at the base of the alveolar arch, is the posterior palatine canal, and externally and posteriorly to that, the posterior and external small palatine canals. The palate is surrounded in front and on the sides by the alveolar arch bearing the teeth of the upper jaw. The middle division extends back to the front of the foramen magnum. Its central portion has been called the guttural fossa. In the middle line is the basilar process of the occipital bone, and in front of that the body of the sphenoid, covered anteriorly by the extremity of the vomer. On each side, the petrous portion of the temporal bone reaches as far forwards as the extremity of the basilar process ; and between the petrous and squamous portions is the back part of the great wing of the