165 ARTICULATIONS OF THE SACRUM AND COCCYX. between the summit of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra and the iliac crest of the hip-bone ; it is inserted into the latter above the back part of the iliac fossa, where its fibres expand somewhat, so as to give it a triangular form. Articulations of the Sacrum and Coccyx, and of the Pieces of the Coccyx.—The sacrum and the coccyx are united by an inter- vertebral disc ; by an anterior ligament, a thin layer of fibres forming a continuation of the anterior common ligament of the vertebral; by a posterior ligament, more strongly developed, which descends from the margin of the inferior orifice of the sacral canal to the back of the coccyx ; by interarticular ligaments between the cornua of the two bones ; and by lateral ligaments, passing on each side from the lower lateral angle of the sacrum to the transverse process of the first piece of the coccyx. The pieces of the coccyx, so long as they remain separate, are connected by fibro-cartilaginous discs and prolongations of the above mentioned anterior and posterior ligaments. A distinct cavity is stated by Craveilbier (“ Anatomie descriptive,” t. i. p. 305. Paris, 1877) to be present in the centre of the disc between the sacrum and coccyx in those cases in which the coccyx is freely moveable. This is in con- formity with the observations of Luschka on the other intervertebral discs. In the male, after middle life, the union between the sacrum and coccyx, and between the pieces of the latter, is usually ossific. In the female this change does not generally occur till a more advanced age, the pieces of the coccyx uniting one to another in the first place, and the joint between the sacrum and coccyx not ossifying till old age. The mobility seems to increase during pregnancy. Fig. 140. Fig. 140.—Ligaments of the pelvis and hip-joint seen from behind, from a FEMALE SUBJECT. (A. T.) 5 1, ilio-lumbar ligament ; 2, posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, the short and the oblique ; 3, great sacro-sciatic ligament; 4, small sacro-sciatic ligament; 5, obturator membrane ; 6, posterior ligament of symphysis pubis ; 7, 7, continuation of supraspinous ligament from the lower lumbar vertebrae over the sacral spines ; 8, transverse process of last lumbar vertebra, from which the sacro-vertebral ligament is seen descending ; 9, capsular ligament of the hip-joint.