BOXES OF THE nEAD. 46 the horizontal cribriform plcde. It articulates with thirteen bones : the frontal, sphenoid and vomer, the nasal, lachrymal, superior maxillary, palate, and inferior turbinate bones. The vertical plate, mesethmoid, lies in the mesial plane, and forms the upper part of the septum of the nose. Its superior margin appears in the cranial cavity, above the cribriform plate, in the form of a ridge Fig. 38.—The ethmoid bone. (A. T.) §- A, from the right side. 1, crista galli; 2, vertical plate ; 3, cribriform plate and foramina; 4, orbital plate ; 5, 5, uncinate process ; 6, su- perior, and 7, inferior turbinate process ; 8, groove forming the anterior, and 9, posterior internal orbital canal. B, from behind. 1 to 7, as in A ; 10, the lateral or cellular part of the bone ; 11, its pos- terior surface of union with the sphenoidal tur- binate and palate bones. which rises anteriorly into a thick pro- cess, the crista galli, to which the falx cerebri is attached. The anterior mar- gin of the crista galli is vertical and broad, usually presenting a groove, which completes the foramen caecum of ■the frontal bone. Below the level of the cribriform plate, the anterior margin of the vertical plate articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal and with the nasal bones. The inferior margin articulates in front, and sometimes even in its whole extent, with the septal cartilage of the nose ; and in its posterior half, in the adult, it is more or less completely joined by osseous union on one or both sides to the two plates of the vomer. The posterior margin is very thin, and is united to the crest of the sphenoid. This plate presents superiorly a number of grooves and minute canals leading from the foramina of the cribriform plate, for the transmission of the olfactory nerves. The lateral masses, ethmotiirbinals, enclose a number of spaces of irregular form, arranged in two sets, the anterior and posterior eth- moidal cells, which in the recent state are lined with prolongations of the mucous membrane of the nose. On the external aspect of each lateral mass is a thin, smooth lamina, of a quadrilateral form, the orbital plate or os planum, which closes in the ethmoidal cells, and forms a consider- able part of the inner wall of the orbit. The circumference of the orbital plate articulates in front with the lachrymal, behind with the sphenoid, above with the frontal, and below with the orbital surfaces of the superior maxillary and palate bones. In front of the orbital plate the lateral mass extends forwards, under cover of the lachrymal bone ; and from this part descends the uncinate process, a long thin lamella which curves downwards, outwards and backwards, forming part of the inner wall of the maxillary sinus, and articulating at its extremity with the inferior turbinate bone. The internal aspect of each lateral mass forms part of the external wall of the nasal fossa, and consists of a thin, uneven lamella, connected