1U TIIE KNEE-JOINT. THE KNEE-JOINT. The articular surfaces of this complicated joint are the condyles of the femur and the condylar surfaces of the tibia, with interposed fibre- cartilages, the articulating surface of the patella, and the patellar surface of the femur. The action is mainly that of a hinge-joint. The joint is strengthened superficially by fibrous coverings derived from the surrounding tendons and aponeuroses. The ligaments which have received special names are the following. The internal lateral ligament, long and flat, connects the internal tuberosity of the femur with the inner part of the shaft of the tibia, on which it descends to beyond the level of the tubercle : some of the deeper fibres are also inserted into the internal fibro-cartilage and the margin of the inner tuberosity. The tendon of the semimembranosus muscle Fig. 143. A B Fig. 143, A.—Right-knee joint, from the inside and anteriorly. (A. T.) -J- 1, tendon of the rectus muscle near its insertion into the patella ; 2, insertion of the vastus internus into the rectus tendon and side of the patella; 3, ligamentum patellie descending to the tubercle of the tibia ; 4, capsular fibres forming a lateral ligament of the patella prolonged in part from the insertion of the vastus internus downwards towards the inner tuberosity of the tibia : 5, internal lateral ligament ; 6, tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle. (After Arnold.) Fig. 143, B.—Right knee-joint from behind. (A. T.) 1, insertion of the tendon of adductor magnus ; 2, origin of the inner head of the gas- trocnemius muscle ; 3, outer head of the same ; 4, external lateral ligament ; 5, tendon of the popliteus muscle ; 6, part of internal lateral ligament ; 7, tendon of the semimem- branosus muscle ; 8, posterior ligament, spreading outward from the tendon ; 9, expansion of the popliteal fascia downwards from the same, represented as cut short ; 10, on the head of fibula, marks the posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament ; 11, upper part of the interosseous membrane with the foramen at the upper end for the anterior tibial artery.