33 OCCIPITAL BONE. and petrous portions of the temporal bone, while the extremity of its basilar process is united to the body of the sphenoid, in the young con- dition by cartilage, but after the age of twenty years by continuous Fig' 2S. — Occipital bone PROM BEFORE, SHOWING THE INTERNAL SURFACE. (A.T.)t^ 1, basilar process sawn through at the place of union with the sphenoid bone ; 2, condylar portion ; 3, jugular process ; x, between 2 & 3, groove of the lateral sinus and jugular notch; 4, lateral angle; 5, superior angle ; 1 to 3, the edge of articulation with the petrous bone ; 3 to 4, with the mastoid bone; 4 to 5, with the parietal bone ; 11, fora- men magnum ; 13, internal occipital protuberance and groove of the torcular Hero- phili; 14, internal occipital crest; 15, groove of the lateral sinus ; from 5 to 13, groove of the superior longitudinal sinus; 16, cerebral fossa ; 17, cerebellar fossa. osseous substance. The rhomboidal form gene- rally given by the meeting of these borders at the four angles is not unfrequently somewhat changed to the octagonal, by the greater or less projection of subordinate obtuse angles between the upper and lateral, and between the lateral and lower angles. The tabular portion, or supraoccipital, on its posterior surface presents about the centre a prominence, varying greatly in its develop- ment in different skulls, the external occipital protuberance, which can be felt under the skin at the back of the bead ; arching outwards from this on each side is the superior curved line, which divide's the surface into two parts, an upper and a lower: the upper part is convex and smooth, and is covered by tlie hairy scalp ; the lower is more uneven ; it is divided into two lateral portions by a median ridge called the external occipital crest, and each of these is again divided into an upper and a lower surface by the inferior curved line, which can be followed outwards to the extremity of the jugular process. The curved lines and the areas thus marked out give attachment to the numerous muscles of the back of the neck. The deep surface of the hone is marked by two smooth ridges which cross one another, one extending from the upper angle to the foramen magnum, and the other transversely from one lateral angle to the other ; at the point of intersection of these ridges is the internal occipital pro- tuberance. Separated by these ridges are four hollows, the superior and inferior occipital fossae, which lodge respectively the posterior cerebral and the cerebellar lobes. The superior part of the longitudinal and the transverse ridges are grooved in the course of the longitudinal and lateral venous sinuses respectively. The wider space where the longitudinal. VOL i. d