BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 92 The 1'ody or shaft in the upper three-fourths of its extent is three- sided, and presents a slight curve with the convexity backwards, but near the lower extremity it is slender, and more cylindrical. The anterior surface is grooved in the upper two-thirds, where the flexor profundus digitorum muscle takes origin, and in its lower end has an Fig. 71. Fig. 72. Fig. 71.—Right ulna from before. Fig. 72.—Right ulna from behind. (A.T.) ^ 1, point or beak of the olecranon ; 2, tuberosity of the olecranon ; 3, end of the coronoid process ; 4, great sigmoid cavity ; 5, lesser sigmoid cavity, and below it the surface for the supinator brevis muscle ; 6, external or interosseous border : 7, lower ex- tremity or head ; 8, styloid process ; 9, rough surface of insertion of the brachialis anticus muscle ; below 10, the oblique line marking the attachment of the pronator quadratus muscle; 11, triangular surface for the anconeus muscle ; 12, inner part of the posterior surface, to the right of which the de- pressions for the extensor muscles of the thumb occupy the posterior surface. oblique line limiting the attachment of the pronator quadratus. Above the middle is a foramen for the medullary artery, directed upwards. The internal surface is smooth and convex ; in the upper two- thirds giving attaclnnent to the flexor profundus muscle, in the lower third sub- cutaneous. The posterior surface, more uneven, looks outwards and backwards; an oblique ridge descending from the hinder end of the small sigmoid cavity, limits a triangular area, which extends over the outer side of the olecranon and gives attachment to the anconeus muscle ; below this a longitudinal line divides the surface into an inner jfortion, smooth, and covered by the extensor carpi ulnaris, and an outer part, more irregular, and impressed by the extensor muscles of the thumb and index fingers; in front of the surface for the an- coneus, and immediately below the small sigmoid cavity, is a triangular excavated surface occupied by the origin of the supinator brevis muscle. Of the three borders, the anterior is thick and rounded ; the pos- terior is sinuously curved, smooth, and prominent in the middle third ; the external is sharp, and gives attachment to the interosseous liga- ment. The inferior extremity presents a rounded head, from the inner and back part of which a short cylindrical eminence, the styloid process, projects downwards, giving attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. The head bears two articular surfaces, an inferior, kidney-shaped and flattened, upon which the triangular fibro-cartilage of the wrist plays ; and a lateral, narrow and convex, which is received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius. The head and the styloid process arc separated posteriorly by a groove, which is traversed by the tendon