INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. C39 for some distance in its substance. Lower down it rests on the adductor magnus, and is covered behind by the long head of the biceps muscle. Branches.—In its course downwards, the great sciatic nerve supplies offsets to the hamstring muscles, viz., the semitendinosus, two heads of the biceps, and semimembranosus. A branch is likewise given to the inner part of the adductor magnus. Varieties.—Tlie bifurcation of the sciatic nerve may take place at any point intermediate between the sacral plexus and the lower part of the thigh ; and, occasionally, it is found to occur even within the pelvis, a portion of the pyriformis muscle being interposed between the two great divisions of the Pig. 360.— Posterior cutaneous nerves op the leg Fig. 360. (from Sappey, after Hirschfekl and Levcillc). 1, internal popliteal nerve ; 2, branch to the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle ; 3, 4, branches to the outer head and plantaris ; 5, tibial communicating nerve ; 6, external popliteal nerve ; 7, cutaneous branch ; 8, peroneal communicating branch, descending to unite ■with that from the internal popliteal in 9, the external saphenous nerve ; 10, calcaneal branch from this nerve ; 11, calcaneal and plantar cutaneous branches from the posterior tibial nerve; 12, internal saphenous nerve ; 13, posterior branches of this nerve. Internal popliteal nerve.—The internal popliteal, the larger of the two divisions of the great sciatic nerve, following the same direction as the parent trunk, continues along the middle of the popliteal space to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, beyond which point the continuation of the trunk receives the name of posterior tibial. The internal popliteal nerve lies at first at a considerable distance from the popliteal artery, at the outer side and nearer to the surface; but, from the knee-joint downwards, the nerve, continuing a straight course, is close behind the artery, and then crosses it rather to the inner side. Branches.—The internal popliteal nerve supplies branches to the knee-joint and to the muscles of the calf of the leg, and also part of a cutaneous branch, the external or short saphenous nerve. («.) The articular branches are given off from the upper part of the popliteal trunk, and are generally three in number ; two of them accompany the upper and lower arti- cular arteries of the inner side of the knee-joint, the third follows the middle or azygos artery. These nerves pierce the ligamentous tissue of the joint. The upper one is often wanting. (}>) The muscular branches arise from the nerve while it is contained in the popliteal space. They include two nerves to the gastrocnemius— one to each head of the muscle ; a small nerve to the plantaris, derived.