LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX. 535 the following groups, which differ in their course and termination, viz :— 1. Those from the mesial portions of both lobes ascend in the falciform ligament, and pass through the diaphragm behind the ensiform process to enter the glands of the anterior mediastinum. 2. The lateral lym- phatics of each lobe are directed backwards to the corresponding lateral ligament, and descend to the coeliac glands. 3. The lymphatics from the hinder part of this surface converge to the coronary ligament, perforate the diaphragm, and terminate in a small group of glands surrounding the upper end of the inferior vena cava. 4. At the fore part of the liver a few vessels turn downwards and join those of the inferior surface. The greater number of the lymphatics of the under, surface of the liver converge to the transverse fissure, and descend with the deep lymphatics issuing at that part in the small omentum, but some from the lateral part of each lobe run backwards and descend on the vertebral portion of the diaphragm, those of the left side joining the lymphatics from the small curvature of the stomach, to the cceliac glands. The deep lymphatics of the liver accompany the branches of both the portal and hepatic veins. The vessels running in the portal canals issue by the transverse fissure and, being joined by most of the lymphatics of the under surface of the organ, pass downwards in the small omentum, where they traverse some small hepatic glands, to end in the coeliao glands. The lymphatics accompanying the hepatic veins are larger and more numerous ; they form five or six trunks which pass through the diaphragm with the inferior vena cava, and enter the glands placed around that vessel, in union with the posterior lymphatics of the upper surface of the liver. The efferent vessels from these glands descend on the upper aspect of the vertebral portion of the diaphragm, and open into the lower end of the thoracic duct. (Sappey, “ Anatomie,” ii, 862.) LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX. The lymphatic glands of the thorax form the following groups, viz :— 1. Along the course of the internal mammary blood-vessels there are placed from six to ten small sternal glands, which receive lymphatics from the anterior thoracic and abdominal walls, from a portion of the diaphragm, and from the inner part of the mamma. The efferent vessels of the lower glands run partly to the upper glands of the same group and partly to the anterior mediastinal glands ; those of the upper glands ascend to join the lymphatic trunks at the root of the neck. 2. Between the intercostal muscles and in the line of the heads of the ribs on each side of the spine is a set of small glands, named inter- costal, which receive the lymphatics from the thoracic parietes and the pleura ; their efferent vessels open mostly into the thoracic duct, but some of the upper ones on the right side generally ascend to the right lymphatic duct. 3. The anterior mediastinal glands are three or four in number, and lie behind the lower part of the body of the sternum, between that and the pericardium ; they receive, besides some of the efferent vessels of the lower sternal glands, lymphatics from the mesial part of the upper surface of the liver, and others from the fore part of the diaphragm. Their efferent ducts pass upwards with those of the sternal glands to the right and left lymphatic trunks.