METACARPAL BONES. 97 The unciform bone is readily distinguished by the large hook-like process projecting forwards and curved slightly outwards on its anterior surface. Seen from the front or behind, it has a triangular form. Its ex- ternal surface is vertical, and articulates with the os magnum ; its inferior surface is divided into two facets which articulate with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones ; its superior surface, meeting the pyramidal, is concavo-convex, inclines upwards and outwards towards the head of the os magnum, and is separated internally by a rough border from the in- ferior surface. The unciform articulates with five bones, viz., the os magnum, semilunar, pyramidal, and fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. THE METACARPUS. The metacarpus, the part of the hand which supports the fingers, con- sists of five long bones, diverging slightly from each other, and which are numbered from without inwards. Fig. 76.—The eight hand from before. Fig. 76. (A. T.) i s, scaphoid ; l, semilunar ; c, pyramidal; p, pisiform: t, trapezium ; next to it the trapezoid, and then the os magnum, both not lettered ; u, unciform. I to V, the metacarpal bones ; 1, 3, first and second phalanges of the thumb; 1, 2, 3, the first, second, and third phalanges of the little finger, and similarly for the other three fingers, not marked ; * one of the sesamoid bones of the thumb seen sideways. The metacarpal bones are placed in a segment of an arch transversely, and being at the same time slightly curved longitudinally, they present a concavity directed forwards. They are terminated at their carpal extremities by expanded bases of different forms, and at the digital ends by large rounded heads. The first metacarpal bone is broader and shorter than the others. The second is the longest of all, the third, fourth, and fifth decrease regularly in length, according to their position from without inwards. The shaft of the first metacarpal bone is somewhat compressed from before backwards ; the dorsal surface is slightly convex ; on the palmar aspect is a rounded longitudinal ridge, placed nearer to the inner than the outer border. The shafts of the others are three-sided, presenting a surface towards the back of the hand, and towards the palm a smooth margin between the two lateral surfaces. They are most slender immediately beyond the carpal extremity, and become gradually thicker towards the head. On the dorsal aspect of each is a triangular surface, bounded by lines which, proceeding from the sides of the head, pass upwards and converge in the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones opposite the middle of the carpal extremity, and in the fifth towards its inner side. The heads articulate with the proximal phalanges Their smooth,