THE TERES MUSCLES. 205 behind and in contact with the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, to which it is adherent for a short space. Close to the insertion, however, the tendons of these muscles are separated by a small bursa. The fibres run longitudinally in the muscle. Fig. 162.—Muscles of the eight Fig. 162. SHOULDER AND ARM, SEEN FROM BEHIND. (A.T.) 5 The acromion process and a part of the spine of the scapula, with the deltoid muscle, have been removed. a, coracoid process ; b, triangular sur- face at the root of the spine ; c, is close to the cut portion of the spine; d, great tuberosity ; e, olecranon ; /, is close to the external condyle and head of the radius ; 1, supraspinatus ; 2, infraspinatus; 3, teres minor ; below the figure is the triangular space ; 4, teres major; 5, part of latissimus dorsi; + , slip from the inferior angle of the scapula; +, on the edge of the humerus, points to the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and the quadrangular space ; 6, scapular head of the triceps, passing above between the teres major and minor ; 6', outer head ; 6", part of the muscle rising below the spiral groove, continuous with the inner head ; 6"', part of the inner head ; 7, anconeus. Relations.—Posteriorly this muscle is covered at its lower part by the latissimus dorsi, and at its upper part it is crossed by the long head of the triceps. The lower border is surrounded obliquely by the latissimus dorsi; and the an- terior surface is concealed in the upper part of its extent by the tendon of that muscle. The upper border of the muscle forms the margin of a triangular space, of which the other sides are the upper part of the humerus, and the axil- lary border of the scapula, covered before by the eubscapular and be- hind by the teres minor muscles ; this triangle is divided by the long head of the triceps into an external, quadrilateral, and an internal, triangular compartment. Through the quadrilateral space pass backwards the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve; and in the triangular subdivision the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery passes round the margin of the sca- pula into the infraspinous fossa. Varieties.—The teres major muscle is sometimes found connected with the fasciculus of the latissimus dorsi arising from the same part of the scapula. A slip from this muscle has also been obseiwed descending upon the fascia of the upper arm externally. The subscapularis muscle arises partly by muscular and partly by tendinous fibres from the venter of the scapula, with the exception of