ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. Fig. 256. 422 borders of the ring’ and little fingers. The third is similarly distributed to the ring and middle fingers ; and the fourth to the middle and index fingers. The thumb and the radial side of the index finger are supplied Fig. 256. — Superficial dissection of the lower PART OF THE FOREARM AND THE HAND, SHOWING THE RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES, THE SUPER- FICIAL PALMAR ARCH, AND THE ACCOMPANYING nerves (from R. Quain). r a, placed on the deep fascia of the forearm, be- tween the tendons of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis muscles; b, points by a line crossing the pisiform bone to the ulnar nerve ; c, points to the styloid process of the radius and twigs of the radial nerve ; 1, radial artery lying on the flexor longus pollicis ; 1', the same passing beneath the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and ext. primi internodii pollicis; 2, superficial volar branch, piercing the short muscles of the thumb and emerging below to join the superficial palmar arch ; 3, external branch of the princeps pollicis; 4, radialis indicis; a branch from the superficial arch is seen joining the internal branch of the princeps pollicis ; 5, ulnar artery lying upon the flexor profundus digitorum ; 5', the same descending on the anterior annular ligament to form, the superficial palmar arch ; 6, deep branch of the ulnar artery passing between the abductor and flexor minimi digiti to join the deep arch, accom- panied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve ; 7, 8, S), 10, four digital arteries from the superficial arch; 7, and 8, are accompanied by the digital branches of the ulnar nerve, and 3, 4, 9, and 10, by branches of the median nerve. The digital arteries descend in the inter- vals between the flexor tendons, resting upon the digital nerves and lumbricales muscles, as far as the clefts of the fingers, where they are joined by the palmar inter- osseous arteries from the deep arch, and by inferior perforating arteries from the back of the hand. On the sides of the fingers, each collateral artery lies beneath the corresponding nerve, and gives branches which supply the sheaths of the tendons and the joints, some of them anastomo- sing across the front of the bones with similar branches from the opposite side. At about the middle of the last phalanx, the two arteries of each finger converge and form an arch, from which numerous branches pro- ceed to supply the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the tip of the finger. Other offsets pass to the structures on the back of the second and third phalanges, and form a close plexus beneath the matrix of the nail. The varieties observed in the branches of the superficial palmar arch will be noticed after the description of the deep arteries of the hand. The deep branch of the ulnar artery arises at the commence- ment of the superficial palmar arch, immediately below the pisiform bone ; passing deeply into the palm between the abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, it inosculates with the termination of the radial artery and so completes the deep palmar arch. from the radial artery.