EXTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY. 4S3 between the fourth and fifth toes divides into two collateral branches, which course along the contiguous borders of those toes. The third digital branch is similarly distributed to the fourth and third toes, and the fourth to the third and second toes. The digital artery which supplies the opposed sides of the first and second toes, and that to the inner side of the great toe are derived from the ending of the dorsal artery of the foot. Thus, as in the fingers, collateral digital arteries pass along the sides of the flexor aspect of each of the toes, and then inosculate across the last phalanx so as to form an arch, from the convexity of which minute vessels pass forwards to the extremity of the toe, and upwards to the matrix of the nail. Anterior perforating branches, one in each space, are sent upwards by the digital arteries near Their bifurcation, to communicate with the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the foot. These branches are, however, often wanting in one or more of the outer spaces. Varieties.—The arteries of the foot deviate from the normal arrangement much less frequently than those of the hand. The internal plantar artery is sometimes smaller than usual, and has been seen terminating in the flexor brevis hallucis (Cruveilhier). On the other hand it may be larger and supply alone the digital artery of the inner side of the great toe, or even the arteries of the contiguous sides of the great and second toes. The external plantar artery occasionally varies in size, a diminution being accompanied by an enlargement of the dorsal artery of the foot, and vice versa. It has been observed very small, and not entering into the plantar arch, which was formed by the dorsal artery alone (Dubrueil, Cruveilhier). The posterior perforating branches, which are usually very small vessels, are sometimes enlarged, and furnish the interosseous arteries on the back of the foot; the metatarsal branch of the dorsal artery, from which the dorsal in- terosseous arteries are usually derived, being in that case very small. ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (IV). The anterior tibial artery, the smaller of the two divisions of the pop- liteal trunk, extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the bend of the ankle, whence the vessel is afterwards prolonged to the hinder end of the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones, under the name of dorsal artery of the foot. The anterior tibial artery is at first directed forwards between the at- tachments of the tibialis posticus muscle (p. 2GO), and through the aper- ture in the upper part of the interosseous membrane, lying here close to the inner side of the neck of the fibula, to the front of the leg. It then descends along the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane, gradu- ally approaching the tibia, and in its lower part comes to lie over the front of that bone. The position of the artery may be indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between the head of the fibula and the external tuberosity of the tibia to the centre of the front of the ankle-joint. In the upper two-thirds of the leg, while resting on the interosseous membrane, to which it is closely bound down by connective tissue, the artery is deeply placed between the tibialis anticus on its inner side and the extensor longus digitorum and extensor proprius hallucis muscles on its outer side. In the lower third, where the muscles become tendi- nous, the artery inclines forwards upon the tibia and is nearer to the surface, but is covered by the extensor proprius hallucis, which crosses i i 2