657 THORACIC PART OF THE GAXGLIATED CORD. and supplying it with offsets. This plexus is connected with the cervical spinal nerves as they cross the vertebral artery, and its ultimate ramifi- cations are continued on the intracranial branches of the vertebral and basilar arteries. One or two branches pass from the middle cervical ganglion to the lower cervical or first dorsal ganglion in front of the subclavian artery, forming loops round the vessel (ansae Yieussenii), and supplying it with small offsets. THORACIC PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. In the thorax, the gangliated cord is placed at the side of the spinal column, along a line passing over the heads of the ribs. It is covered by the pleura, and crosses the intercostal blood-vessels. Opposite the head of each rib the cord usually presents a ganglion, so that there are commonly twelve of these ; but, from the occasional coalescence of two, the number varies slightly. The first ganglion when distinct is larger than the rest, and is of an elongated form ; but it is often blended with the lower cervical ganglion. The rest are small, generally oval, but very various in form. Connection with spinal nerves.—The branches of connection be- tween the dorsal nerves and the ganglia of the sympathetic are usually two in number for each ganglion ; one of these generally resembling the spinal nerve in structure, the other more similar to the sympathetic nerve. BRANCHES OF THE GANGLIA. The branches furnished by the first five or six ganglia are small, and are distributed in a great measure to the thoracic aorta, the vertebrae, and ligaments. Several of these branches enter the posterior pulmonary plexus (p. 585); The branches furnished by the lower six or seven ganglia unite into three cords on each side, which pass down to join plexuses in the abdomen, and are distinguished as the great, the small, and the smallest splanchnic nerves. Great splanchnic nerve.—This nerve is formed by the union of small cords (roots) given off by the thoracic ganglia from the fifth or sixth to the ninth or tenth inclusive. By careful examination of speci- mens after immersion in acetic or diluted nitric acid, small filaments may be traced from the splanchnic roots upwards as far as the third ganglion, or even as far as the first (Beck, Phil. Trans., 1840). Gradually augmented by the successive addition of the several roots* the cord descends obliquely inwards over the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae ; and, after perforating the crus of the diaphragm, terminates in the semilunar ganglion, frequently sending some filaments to the renal plexus and the suprarenal body. The splanchnic nerve is remarkable from its white colour and firmness, which are owing to the preponderance of spinal nerve-fibres in its composition. "Varieties.—In the chest the great splanchnic nerve is not unfreqiiently divided into parts, and forms a plexus with the small splanchnic nerve. Occasionally also a small ganglion (splanchnic ganglion) is formed on it over the last dorsal vertebra, or the last but one ; and when it presents a ploxiform VOL. i. u u