58 BONES OF THE HEAD. simple at the leaver end where the parietal overlaps the frontal; inferiorly is the temporo-'parietal suture consisting of two parts, the squamous suture arched in form, in which the squamous part of the temporal overlaps the parietal, and theparieto-mastoid, short and serrated ; while at the antero- inferior angle is the short spheno-parietal suture, about half an inch in length, absent only in rare cases when the frontal and temporal bones come into contact. The cranial sutures are conveniently arranged by Turner in three groups, a median longitudinal, a lateral longitudinal and a vertical transverse. The first consists of the sagittal suture, which is continued in the infant, and frequently in the adult, by the frontal suture; in the lateral longitudinal are included on each side, the fronto-nasal, fronto-maxillary, fronto-lachrymal, fronto-ethmoidal, fronto-malar, fronto-sphenoidal, spheno-parietal, squamous, and parieto-mastoid sutures; the third comprises the coronal and spheno-squamous, the lambdoid and occipito-mastoid sutures, and into this group also would fall the transverse articu- lations in the centre of the base, between the ethmoid, sphenoid and occipital. After adult life is reached the bones of the skull evince a disposition to unite and many of the sutures thereby become closed, but the period at which this commences, as also the order in which it proceeds, are subject to great variations and afford very little assistance in determining the precise age of a skull. The process commences generally between thirty and forty years of age; the union takes place first on the inner surface, and frequently the large sutures are quite obliterated internally whilst they are perfectly distinct on the external surface. The earliest points to close are commonly the part of the sagittal suture between the parietal foramina, and the lower ends of the coronal suture; the more (len- tated parts of these sutures and the lambdoid follow later. The squamous is very late in closing, and it is noteworthy that when the frontal suture fails to unite at the usual time it may remain unchanged even to very advanced age. Wormian bones. Ossa triquetra, ossa suturarvm. These are irregular ossifi- cations, found in many skulls, interposed between the cranial bones; seldom in the face. They are of irregular form, with margins adapted to the character of the sutures in which they are situated; usually of small size, but may exceed an inch in diameter. Their most frequent seat is in the occipito-parietal suture, where they sometimes occur in great numbers, more or less symmetrically arranged: in some cases one or several bones of considerable size occupy the place of the superior part of the occipital, more rarely of the antero-superior angles of the parietal bones: a scale-like ossification is often seen between the antero-inferior angle of the parietal and the great wing of the sphenoid (cqrptcric hone, Flower). They are much less frequent in the other sutures. EXTERNAL SURFACE OF THE SKULL.. The external surface of the skull may be conveniently divided into superior, inferior, anterior, and lateral regions. The superior region, extending from the supraorbital ridges in front to the superior curved line of the occipital bone behind, and bounded laterally by the temporal lines, is smooth and convex, covered only by the integument and by the muscular fibres and aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It is of an oval form, broader in the parietal than the frontal region, flattened in front, and projecting somewhat in the middle behind. There is also a slight projection from the general curve at each of the frontal and parietal eminences. The anterior region of the skull, below the forehead, presents the openings of the orbits, hounded by the frontal, malar, and superior maxillary bones; and between the orbits, the bridge of the nose, formed by the nasal bones and ascending processes of the superior maxillaries.