THE DELTOID MUSCLE. 203 Fig. 161.—Superficial muscles of THE SHOULDER AND UPPER LIMB, FROM BEFORE. (A . T. ) £ 1, pectoralis major, its sterno- costal portion ; 1', its clavicular por- tion ; 2, deltoid, its clavicular part 2', its acromial part ; 3, biceps bracliii; 3', its tendon of insertion ; 3", its aponeurotic slip ; 4, brachialis anticus ; 4', its inner and lower ]3or- tion ; 5, long head of the triceps ; 5', inner head of the same, seen arising from behind the intermus- cular septum. The explanation of the remaining references will be found in the description of fig. 165. frequently, four tendinous septa, which pass downwards into the substance of the muscle. These oblique fibres, running nearly parallel to each other, are in- serted in a similar manner into the sides of two or, more fre- quently, three septa which pass from below upwards and alter- nate with the upper septa. The oblique fibres, from the outside of the first and fourth upper septa are inserted into the marginal parts of the main tendon. There are besides wedge-shaped bundles of muscular fibres, rising directly from the acromion in the intervals between the penniform bundles, which are inserted into the tips of the lower tendinous septa, and others which, springing from the ends of the upper tendinous septa, are directly inserted into the hu- merus between the lower septa. The main tendon of insertion spreads from below upwards for some distance on the deep surface of the muscle. Relations.—The anterior border of the deltoid is in contact with the pectoralis major below, but separated from it by a small in- terval above : the cephalic vein, with a small artery, lies between the two muscles. In immediate contact with the deep surface is the large bursa which separates this muscle and the acromion from the shoulder joint and the muscles supporting it. The del- toid muscle covers the origins of the biceps and coraco-brachialis, the insertions of the supraspina- tus, infraspinatus and teres minor