679 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE ABDOMEN. each side of the middle line from the pelvis to the thorax, its tendinous inscriptions producing transverse furrows, of which two arc commonly to be recognised, one opposite, or just below, the tip of the ensiform process, and the other about midway between this and the umbilicus. Between the two recti is a median groove (abdominal furrow) continued downwards from the infrasternal fossa, along the surface of the linea alba, as far as, or a little beyond, the umbilicus, where it gradually dis- appears owing to the approximation and eventual union of the muscles of the two sides. The lower ends of the recti are concealed by a small accumulation of fat. The position of the umbilicus is subject to considerable variation, but it is always below the centre of the distance between the xiphi-sternal articulation and the symphysis pubis. It is generally a little (half an inch to an inch) above the highest point of the iliac crest, and about opposite the disc between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. The convex surface of the side of the abdomen is formed by the fleshy part of the external oblique muscle, and between this and the outer edge of the rectus there is a shallow depression over the upper portion of the linea semilunaris : this depression terminates above, at the margin of the thorax, in a somewhat triangular fossa, the upper boundary of which is formed by the rounded ninth costal cartilage. In the inguinal region, the external abdominal ring is placed imme- diately above and external to the spine of the pubis, which can always be readily felt, as well as the common attachment of the outer pillar of the ring and Poupart’s ligament. By invaginating the scrotum at some distance from the aperture, the finger may be passed through the ring into the lower part of the inguinal canal. The internal or deep abdomi- nal ring is situated about half an inch above Poupart’s ligament, opposite a spot midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the sym- physis pubis ; and the deep epigastric artery runs upwards close to the inner side of this opening, in the direction of a line inclining inwards towards the umbilicus. If the inguinal canal has been enlarged by the presence of an old hernia, the rings are almost opposite to one another, and the finger may be passed through them and can explore the sur- rounding parts in the interior of the abdomen. The superficial epigastric vein is often seen through the skin, and it may frequently be observed to communicate with another vein that passes up into the armpit to join the axillary vein, especially if there be any obstruction to the return of the blood through the inferior vena cava. The liver, which occupies the whole of the arch of the diaphragm on the right, as well as a small part on the left side, is placed for the most part under cover of the ribs. In the right hypochondriac region, its lower margin just corresponds to the lower border of the thorax, but in the epigastric region, a part of both right and left lobes comes into contact with the abdominal wall ; the margin of this part runs obliquely across the subcostal angle from the ninth right to the eighth left costal cartilage, and crosses the middle line about a hand’s breadth below the xiphi-sternal articulation. The gall-bladder projects beyond this margin opposite the ninth costal cartilage, and close to the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The extent of the liver upwards, if traced on the surface of the body, is indicated by a line crossing the mesosternum close to its lower end, and rising on the right side to the level of the fifth chondro-