SYMPATHETIC NERVES. CGO LUMBAR PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. In the lumbar region, the two gangliated cords approach one another more nearly than in the thorax. They are placed before the bodies ol the vertebrae, each lying along the inner margin of the psoas muscle ; and that of the right side is partly covered by the vena cava, that of the left by the aorta. The ganglia are small, and of an oval shape. They are commonly four in number, but occasionally their number is diminished, and they are then of larger size. Connection with spinal nerves.—In consequence of the greater dis- tance at which the lumbar ganglia are placed from the intervertebral fora- mina-, the branches of connection with the spinal nerves are longer than in other parts of the gangliated cord. There are generally two connecting branches for each ganglion, but the number is not so uniform as it is in the chest; nor are those belonging to any one ganglion connected always with the same spinal nerve. The connecting branches accompany the lumbar arteries, and, as they cross the bodies of the vertebrae, are covered by the fibrous bands which give origin to the psoas muscle. Branches.—The branches of these ganglia are uncertain in their number. Some join the plexus on the aorta ; others descending go to form the hypogastric plexus. Several filaments are distributed to the vertebrae and the ligaments connecting them. SACRAL PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. Over the sacrum, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve is much diminished in size, and gives but few branches to the viscera. Its position on the front of the sacrum is along the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina ; and like the two series of those foramina, the right and left cords approach one another in their progress downwards. The upper end of each is united to the last lumbar ganglion by a single or a double interganglionic cord ; and at the lower end they are connected by means of a loop, in which a single median ganglion, ganglion impar or coccygeal ganglion, placed on the fore part of the coccyx, is often found. The sacral ganglia are usually four in number ; but the variation both in size and number is more marked in these than in the thoracic or lumbar ganglia. Connection with spinal nerves.—From the proximity of the sacral ganglia to the spinal nerves at their emergence from the foramina, the communicating branches are very short : tliere are usually two for each ganglion, and these are in some cases connected with different sacral nerves. The coccygeal nerve communicates with the last sacral, or the coccygeal ganglion. Branches.—The branches proceeding from the sacral ganglia are much smaller than those from other ganglia of the cord. They are for the most part expended on the front of the sacrum, and join the corresponding branches from the opposite side. Some filaments from one or two of the upper ganglia enter the pelvic plexus, while others go to form a plexus on the middle sacral artery. From the loop con- necting the two cords, filaments are given to the coccyx and to the liga- jnents about it, and to the coccygeal gland.