178 ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 149.—Frontal section op the right ankle-joint near Fig. 149. is attached to the notch on the inferior border of the internal malleolus ; the other, to the inner side of the astragalus, the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, and the navicular bone. The external lateral ligament (fig. 152, 4, 5, 6) consists of three distinct bands separated by intervals and disposed in different directions. 1. The middle band descends from the extremity of the fibula, to the external surface of the os calcis. 2. The anterior band passes obliquely forwards and inwards from the fore part of the outer malleolus to a part of the astragalus in front of its external malleolar surface ; it is the shortest of the three. 3. The posterior band, the strongest of the three, passes almost horizontally inwards from the pit on the inner side of the malleolus to the posterior sm’face of the astragalus. ITS MIDDLE, AND OP THE POSTERIOR ASTRAGALO-CALCANEAL ARTICULATION, SO AS TO SHOW THE SHAPE OP THE ARTICULAR SURFACES AND CAVITIES, VIEWED FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) | 1, internal; 2, external malleolus ; 3, placed on the astrag- alus at the angle between its superior and its external sur- faces ; 4, inferior interosseous tibio-fibular ligament; 5, in- ternal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 6, sustentaculum tali ; 7, calcaneo-fibular or middle part of the external lateral ligament ; 8, inner part of the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament; 9, tuberosity of the calcaneum. The anterior and posterior ligaments are merely scattered fibres in front of and behind the joint; those of the posterior ligament are weak and principally transverse. The synovial membrane of the ankle-joint extends upwards by a small process which lines the lower part of the inferior peroneo-tibial articulation. Movements.—The movements of the ankle-joint are mainly those of flexion and extension of the foot, the directions of those movements being determined by the shape of the articular surfaces. The external border of the superior car- tilaginous sin-face of the astragalus is curved, and longer than the internal border, and hence extension of the ankle-joint is accompanied with a slight in- ward movement of the fore part of the foot. The horizontal surfaces of both the tibia and astragalus are broader in front than behind ; hence in complete exten- sion of the ankle the narrow part of the astragalus is brought into the widest part of the space between the malleoli, and a certain amount of lateral motion is allowed under the influence of external force, whereas in complete flexion, as when the weight of the body, with fully bent knees, is supported on the toes, the broad part of the surface of the astragalus is pushed back into the narrowest part of the space, and the inferior extremity of the fibula is pressed upon, so as to stretoh the ligaments between it and the tibia, and thus to prevent lateral movement of the joint, and give it at the same time a certain amount of spring. There appears to be no other movement between the tibia and fibula ; these bones being bound together at their lower ends with remarkable firmness. ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. Articulations of the Calcaneum, Astragalus, and Navicular Bone one with another.—The astragalus is connected with the calcaneum by two synovial articulations, viz., by a posterior one pecu- liar to those two bones, and by an anterior one common to them with