83 VARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL. similar differences occur, though much less in degree. In the European the plane of the foramen is inclined upwards anteriorly, in the Australian and Negro it is horizontal or even inclined slightly upwards posteriorly. The degree of inclination requires for its determination a special “occipital goniometer” designed by Broca. In the skeleton of the face the most striking differences are met with in the size of the jaws and the extent to which they project forwards. The human skull, in comparison with that of the lower animals, is especially distinguished by the great expansion of its cranial portion and the relatively small develop- ment of the face, the latter being extended vertically instead of horizontally, and thus brought downwards under the fore part of the cranium. A marked prominence of the jaws constitutes, therefore, an approach to the animal type of skull, and is to be regarded as a character of inferiority, particularly when it is accompanied, as is often the case, by a low and receding forehead. The degree of projection of the jaws beyond the cranium is usually measured by the facial angle, originally designed by Camper, but since variously modified by different anatomists. The most serviceable form of the facial angle is that included between two lines meeting at the alveolar point, the one passing through the ophryon and the other through the auricular point, the ophryo-alveolo-auricular angle. The character is also estimated more conveniently, and with greater accuracy, by the method of Professor Flower, who compares the basialveolar length (fig. 66, BA) with the basinasal length (BN) = 100, the result giving the gnathic or alveolar index; skulls with a gnathic index below 98 are orthognathous, from 98 to 103 mesognathous, and above 103 prognathous. Gnathic Index. English . , 96 Chinese 99 Eskimo # , 101 Fijian 103 Native Australian . 104 In the osseous framework of the nose, and in the form of the anterior nasal aperture, variations are to be recognised corresponding to the external conforma- tion of that feature. Of these, the height and width are capable of exact measurement, and the relation between the two, expressed by the nasal index of Broca, becomes a character of considerable importance. The height is measured from the nasion to the subnasal point (fig. 66, NS), the width is the greatest transverse diameter of the anterior nasal aperture, and the calculated proportion of this to the height = 100, is the index. With a nasal index below 48 a skull is leptorhine, from 48 to 53 mesorhine, above 53 platyrhine. Nasal Index. Eskimo .... 44 English . . 40 Chinese .... 50 Native Australian . . 57 The form of the orbit also varies, but is a less significant character than that of the nose. The orbital index is the ratio of the vertical height of the base of the orbit to the transverse width = 100 ; if above 89 it is megaseme, between 89 and 84 mesoseme, and below 84 microseme. Orbital Index. Andaman Islander . 91 Chinese . . 90 English . . . , 88 Native Australian . . 81 Guanches of Teneriffe 80 For an account of the variations in the form of the palate and of the mandible, as well as of the naso-malar angle of Flower, by which the degree of forward G 2