SPHENOID BONE. 43 eminence, on which the optic commissure rests in a slight groove ; and in front of this is a surface on a slightly higher level, continuous with the superior surfaces of the small wings, and having a slight projection for- wards of its anterior border, which articulates with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and is called the ethmoidal spine. Behind the pituitary fossa is a prominent lamella, the dorsum sdlce, the posterior surface of which is sloped upwards and forwards in continuation of the basilar groove of the occipital bone. The angles of this lamella project over the fossa, and are called the posterior dinoid processes. On each side of the body the surface descends obliquely to a considerably lower level than the fossa; it presents close to the margin of the fossa a superficial winding groove directed from behind forwards, marking the course of the internal carotid artery. On the outer side of the commencement of this groove, and in the angle between the body and the great wing, there projects the small tongue-like process termed lingula sphenoidalis. The posterior surface is united to the basilar process of the occipital bone, in early life by cartilage, but in adult age by continuous bony substance. The anterior surface presents in the middle line the sphenoidal crest, a thin projecting edge which descends from the ethmoidal spine, and articulates with the central plate of the ethmoid ; the oblong surface on each side of the crest presents a division into a median and a lateral part : the lateral part is irregularly excavated, and articulates with the lateral mass of the ethmoid and the orbital process of the palate bone ; the median part is smooth and free, entering into the formation of the roof of the nasal fossa, and presenting near its upper end the rounded orifice of the sphenoidal sinus. The sphenoidal crest terminates inte- riorly in the rostrum, a sharp vertical prominence continued back some distance on the inferior surface, and which fits in between the alae of the vomer. These last and the vaginal processes of the internal pterygoid plates cover the greater part of the inferior surface of the body. The sphenoidal turbinate or spongy bones (cornua sidicnoidalia, hones of Bcrtiri), form a considerable part of the anterior wall of the body of the sphenoid, bounding the foramen of each sinus. These bones have a triangular form, with the apex directed downwards, and are in the adult usually incor- porated with the sphenoid, but as explained in the account of their development, were originally distinct. They are frequently united by earlier or stronger anchylosis with the ethmoid or palate bones, so as to come away, at least in part, with either of these in disarticulation of the skull, and thus lay open the sphenoidal sinuses. A small portion of these bones sometimes appears on the inner wall of the orbit, between the ethmoid, frontal, sphenoid, and palate bones (Cleland in Trans, of Boy. Soc. for 1802). The small wings extend nearly horizontally outwards on a level with the fore part of the superior surface of the body. The extremity of each is slender and pointed, and comes very close to, but usually not into actual contact with, the great wing. The superior surface forms part of the anterior fossa of the base of the cranium, the inferior overhangs the sphenoidal fissure and the back of the orbit. The anterior border, thin and serrated, articulates with the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The posterior border is prominent and free, and forms the boundary between the anterior and middle cranial fossie, terminating internally in a smooth rounded knob, the anterior dinoid pi'oeess. In front of this is the optic foramen perforating the base of the wing.