VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 393 enters the skull through the foramen magnum. Finally, it proceeds upwards and forwards, turning round from the side to the front of the medulla oblongata, and unites with the vessel of the opposite side, at the lower border of the pons Varolii, to form the basilar artery. At its commencement, the vertebral artery lies behind the internal jugular, as well as its oavu companion vein, and on approaching the vertebrae it passes between the longus colli and the scalenus anticus muscles. On the left side, the thoracic duct crosses in front of the artery from within outwards. While within the foramina of the cervical vertebrae, the artery is accompanied by a plexus of the sympathetic nerve and by the verte- bral vein : the cervical nerves as they emerge from the intervertebral foramina pass behind it. The suboccipital nerve lies beneath it in the groove of the atlas, and at that point the artery is covered by the superior oblique muscle. Within the skull it turns round the side of the medulla oblongata, between the origin of the hypoglossal and the anterior root of the sub- occipital nerves, and it then lies between the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata and the basilar process of the occipital bone. Branches.—A. In the neclc.—(«) Spinal branches. These are several small offsets which pass through the intervertebral foramina into the spinal canal, and there divide, each into two branches ; one of these passes along the. roots of the spinal nerves, supplying the spinal cord and its mem- branes, and anastomoses with the other spinal arteries ; the other branch ramifies on the back part of the bodies of the vertebrae in the same manner as similar branches derived from the intercostal and lumbar arteries (see p. 447). (&) Muscular branches of variable size are distributed to the deep- seated cervical muscles, and anastomose with the ascending cervical, deep cervical and occipital arteries. B. Within the cranium.—(a) The posterior meningeal artery, sometimes double, is a small branch which arises opposite the foramen magnum, and ramifies beneath the dura mater in the lower occipital fossa, and in the falx cerebelli. (b) The posterior spinal artery inclines downwards on the medulla oblongata to reach the back part of the spinal cord ; aided by reinforce- ments from small arteries which ascend upon the nerves through the intervertebral foramina, it may be traced as a minute tortuous vessel, or rather a series of little inosculating vessels, lying behind the roots of the nerves, as far as the lower end of the cord, where it communicates with the lower part of the anterior spinal artery. (c) The anterior spinal artery, somewhat larger than the preceding, arises near the end of the vertebral artery, and descends obliquely on the front of the medulla oblongata. Near the foramen magnum, it unites with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, so as to form a single trunk, which descends along the middle line in front of the spinal cord, forming the upper part or commencement of the anterior median artery of the cord. This anterior spinal branch of the vertebral artery supplies only the upper part of the cord ; the remainder being provided with a series 5f small arteries, which are derived in the neck from the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries, in the back from the intercostals, and below this from the lumbar, ilio-lumbar, and lateral sacral arteries. These small vessels enter the spinal canal at irregular intervals through