BONES OP TIIE UPPEE LIMB. 100 proper, the other for the coracoid process, which represents the independent and often largely developed coracoid bone of the monotremata and lower vertebrates. The nucleus for the body appears near the head about the 7th or 8th week. This centre forms a triangular plate of bone near the upper margin of which, about the 3rd month, the spine appears as a slight ridge. At birth the coracoid and acromion processes, the base and inferior angle, the edges of the spine and of the glenoid cavity are cartilaginous. The nucleus of the coracoid process appears in the first year, and this forms also a small portion of the glenoid cavity at the upper end. The coracoid process joins the body about the age of puberty, and at this time epiphyses make their appearance. In the acromion two, sometimes three, nuclei appear between the 11th and 16th years; they soon coalesce and the resulting epiphysis is united to the spine from the 22nd to the 25th year. The cartilage of the base, which it may be noticed corresponds to a more largely Fig. 80. Fig. 80.—Posterior aspect op the sternum and right shoulder girdle prom a pcetus op about four months (Flower after Parker). 1£ The dotted parts are cartilaginous ; ost, omosternum, afterwards becoming the inter- articular fibro-cartilage; pc, precoracoid of Parker; a, acromion ; cl, shaft of clavicle ; mss, mesoscapular segment of Parker; c, coracoid ; gc, glenoid cavity; gb, glenoid border; cb, coracoid border; a/, anterior or supraspinous fossa ; pf, posterior or infraspinous fossa ; ss, suprascapular border. developed permanent cartilage or bone, suprascapular, found in many animals, becomes the seat of ossification about the 16th to the 18th year, by the appear- ance of a nucleus at the inferior angle, and thereafter of a line of osseous deposit extending upwards throughout its length. A thin lamina is also added along the upper surface of the coracoid process, and occasionally another at the margin of the glenoid cavity. These epiphyses are united about the 25th year. In the humerus a nucleus appears near the middle of the shaft in the 8th week. It gradually extends, until at birth only the ends of the bone are cartilaginous. About the beginning of the 2nd year the nucleus of the head appears, and during the 3rd year that for the great tuberosity. The lesser tuberosity is either ossified from a distinct nucleus which appears in the 5th year, or by extension of ossification from the great tuberosity. These nuclei unite together about the 5th year to form an epiphysis, which is not united to the shaft till the 20th year. In the cartilage of the lower end of the bone four separate nuclei are seen, the first appearing in the capitellum in the 3rd year. The nucleus of the internal condyle appears in the 5th year, that of the trochlea in the 11th or 12th year, and that of the external condyle in the 13th or 14th year. The nucleus of the internal condyle forms a distinct epiphysis which unites with the shaft in the 18th year;