HOMOLOGIES OF TIIE BONES OF THE nEAD. 75 the larger projecting face and jaws, and the other characteristic features of the skull in most animals. As regards the condition of the individual bones, it is further to be remarked that there is generally in the human skull a more complete consolidation or bony union of the osseous elements than in animals, so that the whole number of bones forming the cranium and face is least in man. Thus, to mention only some of the most marked examples of this difference among mammals; the frontal bone and the lower jaw frequently divided into two lateral portions ; the premaxillary very generally a separate bone from the maxillary ; the presphenoid in many separate from the postsphenoid ; the interparietal from the occipital; the reduction in size of the squamosal, and its occasional separation from the petrous ; the increase in the proportions of the tympanic portion or bulla ; and. the very frequent development of bony elements connecting the hyoid bone directly with the skull. It is also worthy of observation that some of the conditions now referred to as permanent in animals exist as transitory stages of develop- ment in the foetus of man. Homologies.—It would be out of place in this work to enter at any length into the consideration of the homologies of the bones of the human skull,—a subject which would require a minute reference to embryology and a wide range of comparative anatomy. But as it may be useful at least to show the bearing of such homological views on human anatomy, there has been introduced here a dia- grammatic figure of the bones of the foetal head (see fig. G4) and a table of their nomenclature, in which an attempt is made to indicate the morphological relations of the several bones to each other and to those of quadrupeds, and an explanation is given of the signification of some of the terms applied by comparative ana- tomists to these bones in connection with the names usually given to them in works on human anatomy. For fuller information on this subject the reader is referred to the works of Owen. Goodsir, Huxley, Flower, St. George Mivart, Gegen- baur, and others already quoted. CLASSIFIED LIST OF THE BONES OF THE HEAD AND THEIE TYPICAL COMPONENT PABTS * :— 1. BONES FORMING- THE CRANIO-FACIAL AXIS. Mesethmoid ; Vertical plate of the ethmoid bone, including the cartilaginous nasal septum, which is partially enclosed by Vomeric (in') ; The Vomer. Presphenoid ; Anterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone. Basisphenoid; Posterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone, including the sella turcica. Basioccipital; Basilar process of the occipital bone. 2. BONES FORMING THE LATERAL AND UPPER WALLS OF THE CRANIAL CAVITY. Orbitosphenoids ; The lesser wings of the sphenoid bone. Frontals (to) ; United in the single frontal. Alisphenoids ; Great wings of the sphenoid with the external pterygoid plates. Parietals (to) ; The parietal bones. Exoccipitals; Condylar portions of the occipital bone. Supraoccipital; Lower portion of the tabular part. Interparietal (to), of some animals, corresponds to the upper part of the foregoing. The temporal bones interposed between the occipitals and sphenoids consist of Periotics, or petro-mastoid bones ; The petrous and mastoid portions of * The names first given, and printed in black type, are those received in comparative anatomy ; those usually employed in human anatomy follow, and are printed in common type. The bones which are developed in membrane are indicated by (m) following their names; in the others, ossification commences in cartilage.