INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 381 canals, which are distributed to the soft palate and tonsil, and com- municate with the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery. (d) The Vidian branch traverses the Yidian canal with the nerve of the same name ; it is distributed to the Eustachian tube and the top of the pharynx, and sometimes sends a small vessel into the tympanum. (<?) The pterygopalatine, a very small branch, passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal to reach the top of the pharynx, to which, and to the Eustachian tube and sphenoidal sinus, it is distributed. (/) The nasal or sphenopalatine artery enters the spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches, some of which ramify extensively over the spongy bones, while others supply the ethmoidal cells, the frontal sinus, and the antrum. One long branch, the nasopalatine artery or artery of the septum, runs downwards and forwards in the groove on the vomer, and ends in a small vessel which enters the incisor foramen to communicate with the descending palatine artery. Varieties.—Tlie internal maxillary artery is very constant in its place of origin. It has, however, been seen to arise from the facial (R. Quain, Hyrtl) ; and in two cases, after leaving the temporal artery below the angle of the jaw, it pierced the internal pterygoid muscle in its course upwards into the zygomatic fossa (Joessel, W. Gruber). The number of branches arising from the internal maxillary artery is fre- quently reduced owing to two or more taking origin by a common trunk. The middle meningeal artery occasionally furnishes the lachrymal (usually an offset of the ophthalmic), or even the ophthalmic artery itself ; and on the other hand the ophthalmic has been seen to give off the middle meningeal ; peculiarities which may be explained as resulting from the enlargement of an ordinary anastomosing branch. The anterior deep temporal artery may reinforce or replace the lachry- mal artery by a similar enlargement of an anastomosing branch. The buccal, posterior dental or infraorbital artery may be larger than usual, supplying a deficiency of the facial artery. INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (II). Course and relations.—The internal carotid artery is distributed to the brain, to the eye with its appendages, and in part to the forehead and nose. It extends directly upwards from the termination of the common carotid artery, opposite the upper border of the thyroid carti- lage, to the carotid canal of the temporal bone. Traversing this canal, it enters the cranial cavity by the inner part of the foramen lacerum ; it then passes forwards in the carotid groove on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, at the fore part of which it makes a sharp bend with its convexity directed forwards ; and lastly, it turns upwards on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process to reach the inner end of the Sylvian fissure of the brain, where it terminates by dividing into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. In the nec7c, the internal carotid artery lies at first behind the external carotid, and is covered only by the sterno-mastoid muscle with the platysma myoides and fascia. It soon, however, passes beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, gaining the inner side of the external carotid trunk, and is then deeply placed beneath the parotid gland, the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Behind the artery is the rectus anticus major muscle, and on its inner side are the pharynx and the tonsil. The |internal jugular vein is in contact with the artery as far as the base of the skull, lying on its posterior and outer aspect, and the two are enclosed, together with the pneumo-gastric nerve, in a pro-