S4 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. rounded lower end of the ulna. At the outer part of the inferior surface the styloid process, projects downward, stout and pyramidal, giving attachment to the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint, while the anterior and posterior margins are likewise rough and pro- minent for other ligaments. On its external and posterior aspects the Fig. 73. Fig. 74. Fig. 73.—Right radius prom before. Fig. 74.—Right radius from behind. (A.T.) \ 1, head, showing the hollow above for the humerus, and the vertical surface surrounding it for the ulnar articulation ; 2, neck ; 3, tubercle ; 4, is opposite to the oblique line ; 5, interosseous ridge ; the shaded part near 5 marks the slight hollow in which the flexor longus pollicis muscle lies ; 6, carpal articular surface ; 7, styloid process ; 8, sigmoid cavity of the radius ; 9, mark of the attachment of the pronator radii teres; 10 and 11, oblique im- pressions of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii pollicis ; between 7 and 8, grooves for the tendons of the extensor muscles. inferior extremity of the radius is marked by grooves, which transmit the extensor tendons. Thus, on the external border, is a flat groove directed downwards and forwards, which lodges the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis ; and on the posterior surface are three grooves, the middle one of which, oblique and narrow, and with prominent borders, lodges the extensor secundi in- ternodii pollicis ; while of the two others, which are Abroad and shallow, the external, subdivided by a slight mark, gives passage to the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, and the internal transmits the extensor communis digitoriun and extensor indicis. Immediately above the first-men- tioned groove on the outer side is a triangular rough mark, into which the tendon of the supinator longus is inserted. The. radius is for the most part deeply placed. The head and shaft are entirely covered by muscles ; at the lower end the styloid process comes to the surface between the tendons of the extensor muscles of the thumb, and forms a projection on the outer side of the wrist, lower down than the styloid process of the ulna. THE CARPUS. The carpus is composed of eight short bones, which are disposed in two rows, four in each. Enumerated from the radial to the ulnar side, the bones which constitute the first or superior row are named scaphoid, semilunar, pyramided, and pisiform; those of the second or inferior row, are the trapezium, trapezoid, os maynum, and unciform. The dorsal surface of the carpus is convex, the palmar is concave from side to side, the concavity being bounded by four prominences, one at the outer and one at the inner extremity of each row. The