BONES OF THE HEAD. 50 The terms incisor foramen and anterior palatine canal are often used converfcibly and vaguely to express what has been above defined as the anterior palatine canal, or its inferior opening. According to the definitions here given, incisor foramen Fig. 40.—Front part of the palate and ALVEOLAR ARCH OF AN ADULT. § Showing the lower opening of the anterior palatine canal. 1, 2, are placed on the palate plates of the superior maxillary bones; 4, anterior palatine canal, in which is seen a division into four openings—the two lateral, with lines pointing to them from 1 and 2, are the incisor foramina ; the anterior and posterior, indicated by 3 and 4, are the foramina of Scarpa. Fig. 40. has the same meaning in human as in comparative anatomy, while anterior palatine canal is restricted to an appearance which presents itself only in man and a few animals. The lamina which bounds the incisor foramen on the inner side corresponds to the mesial palatine process of the premaxillary bone in other animals, e.g. the carnivora ; while the incisor foramina are those which are seen largely developed in those animals, and are the remains of a primitive com- munication between the nose and mouth. The foramina of Scarpa lie in the suture between the lamin® referred to. They transmit the naso-palatine nerves ; the nerve of the right side occupying, according to Scarpa, the posterior one, which is usually the larger, and that of the left side, the anterior; but they are very inconstant. (Scarpa, Annot. Anatom., lib. ii. cap. 5.) The maxillary sinus or antrum of Highmore has an irregularly pyramidal form. The walls are thin, the sides correspond to the facial, zygomatic and orbital surfaces of the body, the base to the nasal surface, and the apex extends into the malar process. The large aperture is closed to a considerable extent by the uncinate process of the ethmoid, the palate and inferior turbinate bones, and in the fresh state is reduced by the mucous membrane to a small orifice through which it communicates with the middle meatus of the nose. Its extent inferiorly generally corresponds with that of the molar teeth, and the outer alveoli of one or more of these form prominences in its floor, THE PALATE BONE. The palate bone forms the back part of the hard palate and the lateral wall of the nose between the superior maxillary bone and the internal pterygoid plate. It consists of a horizontal and a vertical plate united at a right angle, and of three processes, viz., the pyramidal process, extending outwards and backwards from the junction of the horizontal and vertical 'plates, and the orbital and sphenoidal processes, surmounting the vertical plate. The palate bone articulates with its fellow, and with the superior maxillary, ethmoid, sphenoid, vomer, and the inferior turbinate bone. The horizontal or palate plate presents a superior surface, concave and smooth, forming the back part of the floor of the nasal fossa ; and an inferior surface, completing the vault of the hard palate and marked near its posterior border by a transverse ridge to which some tendinous fibres of the tensor palati muscle are attached. The anterior border articulates with the palate process of the superior maxilla; the posterior is free, concave and sharp, giving attachment to the soft palate, and produced at its inner end into a sharp point, which with that of the other side