MORPHOLOGY OF THE BONES OF THE LIMBS. 132 situations ; and it is not difficult to trace from these the corresponding relations of the parts in the upper division of the limbs ; and thus the radial condyle of the humerus with the great tuberosity are preaxial, while the lesser tuberosity, ulnar condyle, ulna, and little finger are postaxial. In the lower limb, the small trochanter, internal condyle, tibia and great toe are preaxial, while the great trochanter, external condyle, fibula, and little toe, are postaxial. And at the same time the dorsal or extensor surface of the limbs is external, and the ventral or flexor surface is internal. Very soon, however, in the higher animals and in man, farther changes operate in bringing about the permanent form. First, there is the eversion of the humerus so as to place the radial condyle outwards, and the inversion of the femur so as to place the tibial condyle inwards. In the upper limb of man, the radius being in semipronation, no material change occurs in the position of the hand, the thumb hanging naturally forward ; but in animals destined to rest on the palmar aspect of the hand or digits, important changes occur in the position of the radius by which, as this bone is brought forward upon the humerus, and its lower end carried inwards, the manus or its elements are placed permanently in the prone position, with the first or radial digit inwards. In the foot no such change is required, as already by the internal rotation of the femur at its upper part, the conditions for plantar support have been secured, and the first or tibial digit is on the inner side. Farther, in man, as the body attains its full development, both limbs are extended in a line parallel to the axis of the trunk, the upper dropping loosely from the shoulder-joint with the greatest freedom of motion ; the lower more closely articulated in the hip-joint, and suited to give film support to the body in the erect posture. It is proper to mention here a very ingenious view of the homologies of the limbs which has been suggested by Martins, according to which the humerus is to be regarded as virtually twisted upon itself to the extent of 90° at the neck, and 90° more from that part downwards, or to the extent of 180° in its whole length. By this torsion, Martins accounts for the deviation of the external condyle of the humerus from the original or typical position which he considers to remain in the femur, and thus he endeavours to show, and it must be admitted with some plausibility, how, by supposing the humerus to be untwisted, an. exact correspondence of the surfaces and borders can be established between the humerus and femur. Gegenbaur has adopted this view, and has added some facts in illustration of it. (Ch. Martins, “Nouv. Compar. des Membres Pelviens et Thoraciques, &c., deduite de la Torsion de THumerus.” Mem. de l’Acad. de Montpellier, tom. iii., 1857. Gegenbaur, “ On the Torsion of the Humerus,” in Jenaischen Zeitsch. and Annal. des Sciences Nat., iv., p. 50.) But it is easy to prove, by reference to the embryonic condition, that the actual outward displacement of the lower end of the humerus in the progress of its formation does not exceed 90° in quadrupeds, whilst in man it is considerably less. Martins has also proposed the view, that in order to compare the leg with the forearm, it is necessary to look upon the upper part of the tibia (corre- sponding in the main to the radius) as including, or having had transferred to it as it were, the olecranon process and upper part of the ulna; and he thus accounts for the attachment of the great extensor tendon of the leg to the tibia, through the patella, which, according to his scheme, represents the olecranon, instead of to the fibula. Ingenious as these views undoubtedly are, they are liable to considerable objections on embryological grounds, and though not to be rejected altogether, cannot be considered as supplying the key to the explana- tion of the homologies of the limbs. Hand and Foot.—The similarity of the digital and metacarpal bones of the hand with those of the foot in number, form, and connections is so great that the homo- logical correspondence of these bones is immediately recognised. The main differ- ences between them consist in the greater length of the digits of the hand, and the opposability of the thumb to the other fingers through its mobility at the carpo-metacarpal articulation,—conditions which are peculiarly characteristic of man, and do not exist in the same form or degree in any of the lower animals. Between the carpus and tarsus there is also considerable general similarity, -especially in the bones of the distal series ; but in those of the proximal row there