290 MUSCLES OF TIIE HEAD AND NECK. superiorly by short tendinous fibres into the anterior border and external surface of the mastoid process, as well as into a rough ridge continued back- wards from that, and by a thin aponeurosis into the outer half or more of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The sterno-mastoid muscle divides the quadrilateral space on the side of the neck into two great triangles. Relations.—This muscle is covered for more than the middle three-fifths of its extent by the platysma. It is also crossed by the external jugular vein, and by the great auricular and superficial cervical nerves. It rests below on part of the sterno- hyoid and stemo-thyroid muscles, and crosses the omo-hyoid ; in the middle part of the neck it covers the cervical plexus and the great cervical vessels, and in the upper part, the splenius and digastric muscles. It is pierced by the spinal accessory nerve. Varieties.-—This muscle consists of two parts, sterno-mastoid and cleido- mastoid, which are sometimes described as separate muscles. The cleido-mastoid, the smaller of the two, runs upwards nearly vertically under the sterno-mastoid, and is inserted separately by a rounded tendon into the tip of the mastoid process ; this part is pierced by the spinal accessory nerve. In many cases (37 times in 102 subjects, Wood) a third factor is added, a cleido-occvpitalis, which arises from the clavicle in front of or outside the cleido-mastoid and applies itself to the hinder border of the sterno-mastoid, being inserted in continuation of that along the superior curved line. The clavicular origin of the muscle varies greatly in width, being sometimes as narrow as the sternal, while in other instances it extends for three inches along the bone; in such cases it may be divided into separate slips. In animals without a clavicle the cleido-mastoid is continued into the clavicular part of the great pectoral muscle or deltoid, thus forming a cephalo- liumeral muscle. Transversus nuchas.—This name is given by Schulze to a fasciculus of frequent occurrence springing from the external occipital protuberance in connection with the upper end of the trapezius, and inserted into the aponeurosis of the sterno- mastoid. When absent, tendinous fibres run in its place. Supraclavicular is (Luschka).—This is a small muscle not unfrequently met with, lying behind the origin of the sterno-mastoid. It arises by a slender tendon from the upper border of the manubrium, passes upwards and outwards above the sterno-clavicular articulation, and is inserted into the upper surface of the clavicle. When present on both sides the two muscles may be joined in the middle line. Nerves.—The sterno-mastoid receives its principal nervous supply from the spinal accessory, the offsets of which to the muscle are joined by a branch of the second cervical nerve. INFRAHYOID MUSCLES. The sterno-liyoid muscle, a flat baud of longitudinal fibres, arises variably, from the back of the sternum and the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, from that ligament and the clavicle, or from the clavicle only, and sometimes, to a small extent, from the cartilage of the first rib. It is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. Relations.—The muscle is concealed below by the sternum and the sterno- mastoid muscle, higher up by the skin and fascia only ; it lies on the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles, which it partly covers. The inner border approaches that of the corresponding muscle towards the middle of its extent, but is separated from it by a slight interval superiorly, and by a larger interval near the sternum ; the outer margin is in contact with the omo-hyoid near the hyoid bone. Varieties.—Doubling of the sterno-hyoid is occasionally met with, or more rarely an accessory cleido-hyoid muscle, arising from the clavicle, and inserted into the hyoid bone in front of the sterno-hyoid. Absence of the sterno-hyoid on