THE ARTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. 138 simple apposition of comparatively smooth surfaces or edges, as in the case of the vertical plate of the palate and the superior maxillary bones ; and the term grooved suture or schindylesis is applied to that kind of union in which one bone is received into a groove in another, as occurs with the rostrum of the sphenoid bone and the vomer. Synchondrosis is another form of immoveable articulation, in which a thin layer of cartilage is interposed between the bones, as in the articulation of the occipital and sphenoid bones in young persons, and the jugular process of the occipital bone with the petrous. In adult age this form of articulation generally becomes converted into bony union, and a similar tendency is observed to a variable degree in the several sutures (p. 58). Amphiarthrosis or Symphysis is the mixed articulation, or that in which there is mediate union by some intervening substance, with partial mobility. The articulations between the bodies of the vertebra, that between the two pubic bones, and that between the two first pieces of the sternum, may be taken as examples of this mode of connection. Some of the joints of this kind pass on the one hand into synarthrosis, and on the other into diarthrosis. Biarthrosis includes the complete joints, with synovial cavities sepa- rating the articular surfaces of the bones, and is attended with consider- able yet varying degrees of mobility. In this form of joint plates of cartilage cover the articular parts of the bones and present within the joint free surfaces of remarkable smoothness, and these surfaces are farther lubricated by the synovial fluid secreted from the delicate mem- brane which lines the fibrous coverings and all other parts of the articu- lar cavity except those formed by cartilage. This membrane is continuous with the margin of the articular cartilages, and along with them completely encloses the joint cavity. The bones are farther held together by fibrous tissue in the various forms of ligaments, such as membranous capsules, flat bands, or rounded cords. These ligaments, it is true, are not so tight as to maintain the bones in close contact in all positions of the joint, but are rather tightened in some positions and relaxed in others, so that in many cases they are to be looked upon chiefly as controllers of movements. The bones arc likewise held together in diarthrodial joints by atmospheric pressure, and by the surrounding muscles. The follow- ing forms of diarthrodial joint are distinguished :—1. Gliding joint (Arthrodia), having nearly flat surfaces, and admitting of only a limited amount of gliding movement, as in the articulations of the carpus and tarsus, and the articular processes of the vertebra;: 2. Hinge-joint (Gin- glymus), which admits only of flexion and extension, as the elbow and ankle : 3. Condyloid joint, allowing all varieties of angular movement and circumduction, as the wrist and metacarpo-phalangeal articulations: 4. Ball and Socket joint (Enarthrosis), in which movement can take place in every direction, as the hip and shoulder ; and 5. Pivot-joint, as in the case of the atlas and axis, and the upper radio-ulnar articulation, where only rotation is allowed. Various Kinds of Movement.—The various movements of the bones in diarthrodial joints are distinguished by different terms according to their directions, viz., angular movement, circumduction, rotation, and gliding ; but it is proper to remark that although different kinds ol movement, answering to these several terms, may readily be recognised, yet they are seldom of only one kind in any joint, but rather several