PALATE BONE. 51 Fig. 41. Fig. 41.—The palate bone op the eight side. forms the posterior nasal ox palatine spine; internally it articulates with its- fellow by a thick serrated border, forming a continuation of the nasal crest of the superior maxilla, and also supporting the vomer; externally, at its junction with the vertical plate it is grooved by the extremity of the posterior palatine canal. The vertical plate is very thin. Its internal or nasal surface is divided into two parts, corresponding to the middle and inferior meatuses of the nose, by a nearly horizontal ridge, inferior turbinate crest, which articulates with the inferior turbinate bone, and at the upper end of the surface, (A. T.) § A, from tlie outside and behind ; B, from the inside. 1, upper surface of the palate plate ; 2, its posterior curved border ; 3, posterior nasal spine ; 4, the rough surface of adjacent articulation rising superiorly into the nasal crest; 5, 5, in B, vertical plate ; 6, inferior turbi- nate crest; 7, sphenoidal process ; 8, in B, orbital process, showing a cellular cavity ; 8', in A, its orbital surface ; 9, spheno-palatine notch ; 10, 11, 12, pyramidal process— 10, rough surface of union with the external pterygoid plate, 11, with the internal plate, and 12, the inter- mediate smooth surface ; 13, 13, groove of the posterior palatine canal., crossing the roots of the two processes, is another less marked ridge, the superior turbinate or ethmoidal crest, which articulates with the middle turbinate bone. The external surface presents, nearer to the posterior border, a narrow smooth surface which forms the inner wall of the pterygo-maxillary fissure, and leads down to a deep groove forming with the superior maxillary bone the posterior palatine canal for the transmission of the large palatine nerve and vessels; in front of the groove the surface is applied against the superior maxillary bone, and overlaps the orifice of the antrum by a thin tongue-shaped projection, the maxillary process, which may attain a considerable size ; behind the groove it articulates inferiorly with the hinder border of the maxilla, superiorly with the inner surface of the pterygoid process. The pyramidal process or tuberosity fits into the cleft between the pterygoid plates. It presents posteriorly a triangular surface which is smooth and grooved, and completes the pterygoid fossa ; on its sides it is rough for articulation with the borders of the pterygoid plates. Inferiorly, close to its connection with the horizontal plate, are the orifices of the posterior and external small palatine canals which transmit the smaller palatine nerves ; the external is the smaller and less constant. The orbital process surmounts the anterior margin of the vertical plate. It is somewhat pyramidal in shape, and has five surfaces, two of which, the superior and external, are free, and the rest articulated. The superior surface forms the posterior angle of the floor of the orbit, the external looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa, the anterior articulates with the maxillary, tfre internal with the ethmoid, and the posterior, which is small and only exists towards the extremity of the process.