5G0 CRANIAL NERVES. nerve to the orbit, and two spheno-palatine branches descend to join Meckel’s ganglion; while the nerve is in contact with the upper maxilla, it furnishes the superior dental or alveolar branches ; and on the lace are the terminal branches already indicated. Orbital branch.—The orbital or temporo-malar branch, a small cutaneous nerve, enters the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and immediately divides into two branches (temporal and malar), which pierce the malar bone, and are distributed to the temple and the prominent part of the cheek. (a) The temporal branch is directed upwards in a groove on the outer wall of the orbit, and leaves this cavity by the temporal canal in the malar bone (p. 53). While still in the orbit, it is joined by a com- municating filament (in some cases, by two filaments) from the lachrymal nerve. The nerve is then inclined upwards in the temporal fossa be- tween the bone and the temporal muscle, and perforating the aponeurosis over the muscle nearly an inch above the zygoma, ends in cutaneous filaments over the fore part of the temporal region. The cutaneous ramifications are united with the facial nerve, and sometimes with the auriculo-temporal branch of the third division of the fifth. (b) The malar branch lies at first in the loose fat in the lower angle of the orbit, and is continued to the face through the malar canal of the malar bone, where it is frequently divided into two filaments. It is distributed to the skin over the malar bone. In the prominent part of the cheek, this nerve communicates with the facial nerve. Varieties.—The temporo-malar nerve is subject to frequent deviations from the arrangement above described. Thus, either branch may be smaller than usual, or even absent, in which case the other division of the nerve may be distributed over a larger area, or the temporal branch may be reinforced or replaced by the lachrymal nerve, the malar branch by the infraorbital nerve. The temporal branch, instead of perforating the malar bone, frequently passes into the temporal fossa through the anterior end of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The superior dental or alveolar nerves are, as a rule, three in number, anterior, middle, and posterior, but the middle is sometimes conjoined with the anterior, while the posterior is frequently represented by two separate offsets. Tha posterior superior denial nerve arises from the superior maxillary trunk before it enters the infraorbital groove, and immediately divides into two branches (often separate at their origin), which descend with the posterior dental artery on the zygomatic surface of the upper jaw. They send small external filaments to the gum and the adjacent part of the mucous membrane of the cheek, and then enter the posterior dental canals to terminate in offsets to the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum. Variety.—The posterior dental nerve has been seen in a few instances of large size, and replacing the buccal nerve, which was absent as a branch of the inferior maxillary, in the supply of the cheek. The middle superior dental nerve leaves the superior maxillary in the hinder part of the infraorbital canal, and is directed downwards and forwards in a special canal in the outer wall of the antrum to the bicuspid teeth. The anterior superior dental nerve is the largest of the three. Arising