MUSCLES OF TIIE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. 334 becomes blended with the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm. Interiorly the iliac fascia is prolonged downwards, covering the con- joined muscle, a short distance into the thigh, being placed behind the femoral artery and vein, and forming the hinder portion of the crural sheath. On the outer side of the vessels, the fascia is closely united as it descends with the lower border of the transversalis fascia and Poupart’s ligament, and it ends by blending with the fascia lata forming the upper part of the sheath of the sartorius. Internally this part of the fascia becomes directly continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata (see p. 232), while from the junction of the two a short but strong inter- muscular septum is sent backwards between the psoas and pectinens muscles to be attached to the ilio-pectineal eminence and the capsule of the hip-joint. In cases where the psoas parvus is present the iliac fascia is thickened above the ilio-pectineal eminence by the incorporation of the tendon of this muscle as it expands to its insertion. At the back part of the abdomen there is also a thin membrane cover- ing the quadratus lumborum muscle and forming the anterior layer of the lumbar fascia. It is attached at the inner border of the quadratus to the front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, while along the outer border of that muscle it becomes united with the middle layer of the fascia. Superiorly it forms the external arched ligament of the diaphragm already described, and interiorly it is attached to the ilio-lumbar ligament and the crest of the ilium. The middle layer of the lumbar fascia, much stronger than the anterior, and placed between the erector spinse and quadratus lumborum, is formed by the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, in connection with which it has already been described (p. 330). MUSCLES AND FASCIiS OF THE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. Fasciae of the Perineum—Superficial Fascia.—In the posterior half of the perineum the subcutaneous fat is continued deeply into the ischio-rectal fossa, the pyramidal space intervening between the obtu- rator fascia and the levator ani muscle. In the anterior half of the perineum, beneath the subcutaneous fat, is placed a special layer of fascia, continuous with the dartos, the proper superficial perineal fascia, sometimes called fascia of Colies. This fascia is bound down on each side to the margin of the rami of the pubis and ischium as far back as the ischial tuberosity; posteriorly, along a line from the ischial tuber- osity to the central point of the perineum, it turns round the posterior margin of the transversus perinei muscle to join the deep perineal fascia, to be presently described. From its deep surface likewise, an incom- plete septum in the middle line passes upwards towards the urethra and is continued forwards into the scrotum. It thus happens that air blown in beneath the proper perineal fascia on one side passes forwards and distends the scrotum to a certain extent on that side ; it may then penetrate to the other side also, and if injected with sufficient force may reach the front of the abdomen, and travel upwards beneath the super- ficial fascia ; but it neither passes backwards to the posterior half of the perineum nor downwards upon the thighs. The same course is followed by urine or matter extravasated beneath the proper perineal fascia.