EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 325 ■with extension and eversion, and diminished with flexion and inversion of the thigh. The"aponeurosis is perforated by numerous small apertures for the passage of cutaneous vessels and nerves, and near the body of the pubis by one large opening which transmits the spermatic cord in the male or the round ligament in the female. This is known as the superficial or external abdominal ring {external inguinal aperture), and is formed by the separation of the fibres composing the lower and inner angle of the apo- neurosis from the innermost part of Poupart’s ligament. The direction of the opening is obliquely upwards and outwards, conformably to the direction of the principal fibres of the aponeurosis ; its base is formed by the pubic crest, and its sides by the two sets of diverging fibres called the pillars. The upper or internal pillar is flat and straight, and is attached to the anterior surface of the symphysis pubis, decussating with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side : the lower or external pillar is in its upper part also flat and thin, but its lower part, which is formed by the inner end of Poupart’s ligament, is thick and prismatic, and curves strongly inwards to its termination at the pubic spine. While the mesial attachment of Poupart’s ligament takes place mainly into the pubic spine, the deepest fibres of that band are sent backwards to be fixed to the innermost part of the ilio-pectineal line for a distance of about three-quarters of an inch, coustituting a triangular layer which is termed Gimbernat's ligament, and which presents upper and lower surfaces, and a concave external margin, the latter being free and forming the inner boundary of the crural ring. Some of the fibres of Gimbernat’s ligament and of the outer pillar of the ring are usually attached only indirectly to the bone; and these are reflected upwards and inwards beneath the spermatic cord, becoming incorporated with the lowest part of the front of the sheath of the rectus, and reach the middle line where they interlace with the fibres of the opposite side. They form a variably developed layer, placed behind the lower part of the external abdominal ring and its inner pillar, and known as the triangular fascia. On the surface of the aponeurosis, especially in its lower part, arc seen slender bundles of fibres crossing transversely and binding together its principal oblique fibres. These are the inter columnar fibres, and they are most developed in the neighbourhood of the outer third of Poupart’s ligament, and the anterior superior iliac spine. They extend across the upper part of the external abdominal ring, closing to a greater or less extent the angular interval left between the diverging pillars, and from them a thin membrane is prolonged downwards upon the spermatic cord, known as the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia. The external abdominal ring thus acquires a somewhat oval form, and its size varies in proportion to the degree of development of these fibres. In the male the opening has an average length of an inch or a little more, with a breadth of half as much. In the female it is usually much smaller. Relations.—The external oblique muscle is superficial with the exception of a small part at its posterior border which is overlapped by the latissimus dorsi. It lies upon the internal oblique and the lower ribs with their cartilages, and the intervening intercostal muscles. The origins of the external oblique and latissimus sometimes meet at the iliac crest, but more frequently a small interval is left, and the free portion of bone forms the base of a triangular space between the two muscles, in which a hernia (lumbar hernia) has been seen to protrude.