MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 344 over these and including the dorsal vein ; some of the inner fibres end in the mucous membrane of the vestibule in front of the urethral orifice. The two halves of this elliptical muscle appear to correspond strictly to the bulbo-cavernosi muscles in the male. The constrictor urethrae, or transversus perinei profundus, differs from the corresponding muscle of the male in being, like the deep perineal fascia between the layers of which it is contained, almost completely divided into lateral halves by the vagina. The fibres spring on each side from the margin of the ischio-pubic rami ; those of the fore part of the muscle are directed transversely across the subpubic arch in front of the urethra ; while those of the hinder and larger part pass inwards, some transversely, others obliquely, and blend with the wall of the vagina. The muscular substance consists in great measure of un- striped fibres (Henle). MORPHOLOGY OP THE FASCL2E AND MUSCLES OP THE TRUNK AND HEAD. Fasciae.—There is a general correspondence in the relation of the deep fascia to the skeleton and masses of the trunk muscles throughout vertebrate animals. In its simplest and lowest form the general investing fascia is prolonged from the surface towards the skeleton in four places, viz., two median, forming what have been called respectively the neural and Inemal septa, and two lateral, one on each side, running towards the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The layers of the haemal septum are in close contact in the caudal region, but they are separated and somewhat complicated in the rest of the trunk by the interposition of the visceral cavity between them. In man and the higher animals the dorsal part of the general investing fascia is represented by the tendinous attachments of the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, and serrati postici muscles, and by the vertebral aponeurosis and deep temporal fascia, while the deep fascia of the side and front of the trunk, neck, and head, and the aponeurotic sheaths of the limbs correspond with its ventral portion. The neural septum remains as the ligamentum nuclise and the supraspinous and interspinous ligaments. The haemal' septum partly constitutes the linea alba, and is elsewhere separated into two as an investment of the visceral cavity, forming the transversalis, iliac and pelvic fascice. The lateral septum, which is strongly developed in fishes and amphibia, is only seen at all clearly in the middle layer of the lumbar fascia of man and the higher animals, being in them situated much nearer the dorsal than the ventral aspect of the body. This difference of position is coincident with the greater development of the ventro-lateral muscles and the limbs in the higher than in the lower vertebrates. Muscles.—It has already been stated (p. 188) that the muscles of the trunk fall into two primary sets, separated by the embryonic vertebral axis, and known as the epaxial and hypaxial muscles ; and that the former are again subdivided into a dorsal and a ventral group, which are partly separated from each other by the above-mentioned lateral septum, and which correspond to the dorso-lateral and ventro-lateral divisions of the great lateral muscle of fishes and tailed amphibia. The liypaxial muscles (subvertebral, Gegenbaur), in man but little developed, are placed on the ventral aspect of the vertebral column, and in some paits spread round the internal surface of the walls of the visceral cavity, and even extend across that cavity, giving rise to the various diaphragms. They include the rectus anticus major and longus colli in the neck ; the postcardiac diaphragm or midriff in the dorso-lumbar region ; and more postaxially the psoas and pyriformis, extending outwards to the lower limbs, and the pelvic diaphragm or levator ani; while the occasionally present curvator coccygis represents the pro- longation of these muscles on the ventral surface of the caudal vertebrae of some of the lower animals. It is proper to state, however, that the morphology of the muscles here termed hypaxial is by no means certain, inasmuch as their mode of