VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 493 The internal mammary veins are two in number on each side, and accompany# the arteries of the same name. They receive tributaries corresponding to the branches of the artery from the abdominal and thoracic walls and from the mediastinal space, and at the upper part of the thorax the two veins join into a single trunk which terminates in the innominate vein of the same side. The superior intercostal vein is a short vessel which receives the veins from two or three intercostal spaces below the first, and has a different termination on the two sides. The vein of the right side in- clines downwards and enters the upper part of the large azygos vein : that of the left side usually passes forwards across the highest part of the arch of the aorta and joins the left innominate vein; it also communicates below with the commencement of the left upper azygos vein, and sometimes it passes entirely into this vessel. Varieties of tlie superior vena cava and innominate veins.—A considerable number of instances are recorded in which the left innominate vein, being formed in the usual manner, does not cross the middle line to join the corresponding vessel of the right side, but is continued down in front of the arch of the aorta and the root of the left lung to the heart, where it receives the great cardiac vein and then inclines outwards in the usual position of the coronary sinus to open into the right auricle, thus giving rise to what has been termed a left superior vena cava. In some of these cases the right and left veins are connected by a cross branch of small size in the usual position of the left innominate vein. This condition is normal in many animals, and its occurrence in the human sub- ject is due, as will be more fully explained in the description of the mode of development of the great veins, to the persistence of the communication be- tween the left primitive jugular vein and duct of Cuvier in the feetus. A trace of this connection is frequently to be seen in the adult in the form of a small fibrous cord passing from the left superior intercostal vein as it crosses the aorta, within the vestigial fold of the pericardium, to the commencement of the oblique vein on the back of the left auricle. In a few cases such a left superior vena cava has been found opening into the left auricle of the heart (Hyrtl, Gruber, Luschka), and in two instances the coronary sinus has been observed terminating in a similar manner (Lindner, Jeffray). Three examples of a single left superior vena cava, without transposition of the viscera, have been met with, the right innominate vein crossing the middle line and joining the vessel of the left side to form a trunk which has a disposition similar to that of the left superior vena cava described above (Halbertsma, Greenfield, Gruber). In these cases the left duct of Cuvier has remaiued patent and undergone development, while the channel of the right side has be- come occluded. VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The blood returning from the head and neck flows on each side into two principal veins, the external and internal jugular. There are generally no valves in the veins of the head and neck, except at the lower ends of the external and internal jugular veins, near their junction with the subclavian, where valves are always present. The superficial veins of the fore part of the head and the deep veins of the face converge and unite so as to form two principal trunks, the facial and temporo-maxillary veins. From the hinder part of the scalp the blood is collected by the posterior auricular and occipital veins. The facial vein (anterior facial) lies obliquely along the side of the face, extending from the inner margin of the orbit downwards and out- wards to the anterior border of the masseter muscle. Besting on the same plane as the facial artery, but being placed farther back, and