SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE WRIST AND HAND. 689 the fold of skin passing across between the thumb and the outer margin of the palm. The palm of the hand is concave in the centre, where the skin is tightly adherent to the palmar fascia, and raised on each side. The outer elevation (thenar) is formed by the short muscles of the thumb ; the inner (hypothenar) by the short muscles of the little huger. From the central hollow of the palm a slight groove is continued downwards to each of the fingers, corresponding to the prolongations of the palmar fascia. The palm is traversed generally by four more or less regular lines, representing the folds or “ flexures ” produced in the skin by the movements of the principal joints of the hand. Two of these lines are directed nearly transversely, the others longitudinally. Of the transverse lines, one commences about the junction of the upper three-fourths with the lower fourth of the inner border of the palm, and runs outwards and then downwards to the cleft between the index and middle lingers ; this is caused by bending the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations of the inner three fingers; the second starts nearly opposite the foregoing, at the outer border of the hand, and is directed inwards and somewhat upwards across the middle of the palm; this results mainly from the flexion of the first joint of the index finger. The metacarpo-phalangeal articula- tions are placed about midway between these lines and the web of the fingers. Of the longitudinal lines, one, beginning near the centre of the wrist, curves outwards to join the upper transverse line, and is produced by the opposition of the thumb ; the other runs downwards from the wrist through the centre of the palm to meet the lower transverse line opposite the middle finger, and is caused by the opposition of the fifth metacarpal bone. The four lines give rise to a figure resembling the letter M. At the wrist, two or three lines, directed rather obliquely, outwards and a little downwards, indicate the position of the principal folds formed during flexion of the joint; the radio-carpal articulation is placed about three-quarters of an inch above the lowest of these lines. There are three well-marked transverse grooves on each finger ; the lower and middle ones are nearly opposite the two interphalangeal joints; the upper one, which is produced, as well as the transverse lines of the palm, by bending the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, is placed nearly three-quarters of an inch below the joint, and on a level with the web of the fingers. On the thumb, there are only two grooves, and the proximal, which is less distinct than the other, continues upwards the line of the radial border of the index linger, thus crossing obliquely the ■corresponding articulation. The web of the fingers, containing the superficial transverse ligament, limits the interdigital clefts on the palmar side; on the dorsum of the hand they are continued upwards almost to the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. The superficial palmar arch is placed beneath the palmar fascia, a little above the centre of the palm ; its position may be indicated by a line carried from the outer side of the pisiform bone downwards, and then curving outwards across the middle third of the palm on a level with the upper end of the cleft between the thumb and index huger. From the convex side of the arch digital branches proceed, one to the ulnar margin of the little finger, and three which descend opposite the intervals between the fingers and bifurcate about half an inch above the ■clefts. The deep palmar arch rests against the metacarpal bones about a quarter of an inch nearer the wrist than the superficial arch, and the vol. r. y Y