QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS. 243 angle close below the margin of the acetabulum, and form a tendon which is prolonged on the anterior surface, and then in the centre of the muscular mass, to beyond the middle of the thigh. From this the fleshy fibres spring pinnately, and, passing downwards and backwards as they diverge, they end on the inferior tendon which extends over the lower half of the posterior surface of the belly. The lower tendon becomes Fig. 180.—Superficial muscles of the FRONT OF THE THIGH. (A. T.) £ a, anterior superior spine of the ilium ; b’ symphysis pubis ; c, patella ; d, tubercle of the tibia ; 1, insertion of the external oblique muscle into the iliac crest; 2, its aponeurosis > 3, external abdominal ring ; 4, gluteus me- dius ; 5, tensor vaginae femoris at the place of its insertion into the ilio-tibial band, which has been removed between 5 and 5', where it is seen descending to be attached to the tibia ; 6, sartorius ; 6', its insertion ; 7, ilio-psoas ; S, pectineus; 9, adductor longus ; 10, gra- cilis ; 11, part of adductor magnus ; 12, vastus externus; 13, rectus femoris; 14, vastus in- ternus ; 15, biceps flexor cruris. free about three inches above the patella, and forms a flat band which is attached to the upper border of that bone, being joined with the tendons of the deeper portions of the quadriceps, and forming with them the common tendon of insertion. b. The vastus externus has a narrow origin from the femur, along the upper half of the anterior intertro- chanteric line, the fore and outer parts of the root of the great tro- chanter, the outer side of the gluteal ridge and the upper half of the linea aspera, and to a slight extent also from the external intermuscular sep- tum. The origin takes place fur the most part by a strong aponeurosis, which extends over the surface of the muscle for the upper two-thirds of its length. The fleshy fibres spring from this aponeurosis, and some deeper ones also from the bone immediately beneath it, and are directed downwards and forwards to end on the aponeurosis of insertion, which occupies the deep surface and anterior border of the mass in its lower half, and is continued down to the outer part of the upper border of the patella, joining the other portions in the common tendon, and sending also an expansion downwards to the capsule of the knee-joint. A few of the superficial fibres join the outer border of the rectus tendon.