540 LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 5. The submaxillary lymphatic glands, from eight to ten or more in number, lie beneath the base of the inferior maxilla, and receive the superficial lymphatics of the face, the lymphatics of the floor of the mouth, and of the submaxillary and sublingual salivary glands, as well as most of Fig. 309. Fig. 309.—Principal lymphatic vessels and glands of the head and neck on the right side (after Bourgery in part). (A. T.) ^ The inner half of the clavicle and part of the sternum have been removed so as to expose the arch of the aorta, and the innominate artery and veins ; the posterior belly of the omo-liyoid muscle is removed ; and the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the external jugular vein have been divided so as to expose the deeper parts. a, right innominate vein at the place where it is joined by the principal lymphatic trunk ; a', the left vein ; b, arch of the aorta; c, common carotid artery; d, thyroid body crossed by the anterior jugular vein ; e, cut surface of the sternum ; f, outer part of the clavicle ; 1, submaxillary lymphatic glands ; 1', lingual; 2, parotid ; 3, occipital and mastoid ; 4, superior-deep cervical; 5, 5, inferior deep cervical glands ; 6, 6, axillary glands ; 7, on the superior vena cava, some of the anterior mediastinal vessels ; 8, on the innominate artery, some of the superior mediastinal ; to these last are seen descending some of the lymphatics from the thyroid body and lower part of the neck. the vessels emerging from the parotid lymphatic glands. Their efferent vessels pass to both superficial and deep cervical glands. There are fre- quently also one or two small glands (suprahyoid—Sappey) placed in the centre of the neck between the anterior bellies of the two digastric muscles, and connected with the lymphatics descending from the lower lip. 6. The superficial cervical glands, from four to six, lie along the external jugular vein, between the platysma myoides and the deep fascia. They are joined by the lymphatics of the external ear, and of the