253 GASTROCNEMIUS MUSCLE. long plantar ligament, and is surrounded by a second synovial membrane. A sesamoid fibro-cartilage, or sometimes a bone, is found in that part of the tendon which plays over the ridge of the cuboid. The peroneus hrevis arises from the lower two-thirds of the external surface of the fibula, extending upwards in front of the peroneus longus, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. Its tendon passes down behind the external malleolus, and then inclines forwards to be inserted into the projection at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, sending in most cases a small slip to join the extensor tendon of the little toe, or to the fore part of the metatarsal bone. Relations.—In front it is in contact with the extensor longus digitorum and the peroneus tertius, and behind with the peroneus longus and flexor longus hallucis. The common synovial membrane surrounds the tendon under the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation into its special sheath, above that for the peroneus longus. Varieties.—The peroneus accessorius arises from the fibula between the peroneus longus and brevis, and joins the tendon of the former in the sole of the foot. The peroneus quinti dirjiti arises from the lower fourth of the fibula under the peroneus brevis, and is inserted into the extensor aponeurosis of the little toe ; this is of rare occurrence as a distinct muscle, but it appears to be represented normally by the above-mentioned slip of the tendon of the peroneus brevis. Peroneus quartus (Otto) arises from the back of the fibula, between the peroneus brevis and the flexor hallucis, and is inserted into the peroneal spine of the os calcis or into the ridge of the cuboid. Nerves.—The peroneus longus and brevis are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous branch of the external popliteal nerve. POSTERIOR REGION. The muscles at the back of the leg consist of a superficial group in- serted into the extremity of the calcaneum, and a deeper group covered in by a deep fascia and for the most part descending to the sole. The superficial group consists of three muscles ; two of them, the gastrocnemius and soleus, are of large size, form the bulk of the calf of the leg, and descend, the one lying on the surface of the other, to be in- serted by a common tendon—the tendo Achillis; the third, a small muscle, the plantaris, passes downwards between the other two. The gastrocnemius muscle consists of two large heads which arise from the lower end of the femur, and terminate about the middle of the leg in a common tendon. The outer head takes origin from a depression on the outer side of the external condyle, above the tuberosity, and from the hinder surface of the femur immediately above the condyle. The inner head arises from an impression on the upper part of the internal condyle, close behind the adductor tubercle, from the lower end of the internal supracondylar ridge, and from an adjoining roughened part of the popliteal surface of the femur. The lateral part of each origin takes place by means of a strong tendon which is attached to the impression on the condyle, and spreads out as it descends on the surface of the head, while the central part consists of short tendinous fibres, which are succeeded by a prominent fleshy mass extending along the part of the head next to the middle line of the limb. Tbe two heads enlarge down- wards as fresh fibres are added from the superficial tendons, and their adjacent borders converge and soon meet, but do not join, being separated superficially by a longitudinal groove, and deeply by a thin tendinous band which is seen when the fleshy fibres are drawn aside.