CEANIAL NERVES. oGG and is directed nearly horizontally outwards at the posterior border of the temporal muscle, and through the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, to the masseter, which it enters at the hinder part of its deep surface. It also gives a filament or two to the articulation of the jaw. The external pterygoid nerve generally arises in common with the buccal branch, and penetrates the inner surface of its muscle. The buccal nerve, which differs from the foregoing branches in being entirely a sensory nerve, is usually conjoined at its origin with the anterior deep temporal and the external pterygoid nerves. It passes forwards between the heads of the external pterygoid, and then descends in close contact with the inner side (occasionally perforating some of the fibres) of the temporal muscle at its insertion, to the surface of the buccinator muscle. Here it divides into several branches which join in a plexus round the facial vein with the buccal branches of the facial nerve, and are finally distributed to the skin and mucous membrane of the cheek, extending as far forwards as the angle of the month. Varieties.—The buccal nerve is occasionally replaced by a branch of the superior maxillary (p. 560). It has been seen by Turner arising from the inferior dental nerve in the dental canal, and issuing by a small foramen in the alveolar border of the lower jaw, close to the ramus. Gaillet describes it in one case as arising directly from the Gasserian ganglion, and passing from the cranium through a special aperture between the round and oval foramina. The internal pterygoid nerve is closely connected at its origin with the otic ganglion, and descends to the inner or deep surface of its muscle. Auriculo-temporal nerve.—The auriculo-temporal nerve takes its origin close to the foramen ovale, usually by two roots which surround the middle meningeal artery. It is directed at first backwards, beneath the external pterygoid muscle, to the inner side of the neck of the lower jaw ; then changing its course, it turns upwards between the ear and the temporo-maxillary articulation, under cover of the upper end of the parotid gland ; and finally, emerging from beneath the latter, it ascends over the base of the zygoma in company with the superficial temporal artery, behind which it is placed, to terminate on the side of the head as the superficial temporal nerve. Branches.—{ci) Communicating branches.—The roots of the auriculo- temporal nerve are joined, close to their origin, by slender filaments from the otic ganglion ; and from the trunk of the nerve, as it turns upwards, one or two considerable branches are sent forwards round the commence- ment of the superficial temporal artery to the temporo-facial division of the facial nerve. (&) The articular branches are one or two fine twigs to the hinder part of the temporo-maxillary articulation. (c) The nerves of the external auditory meatus are two in number, upper and lower, and enter the canal between the osseous and cartilag- inous parts of its wall. They supply the skin of the meatus, and the upper one sends a filament to the membrana tympani. (d) Parotid branches pass from the nerve, or from its connecting branches with the facial, to the gland. (e) The anterior auricular nerves are usually two in number and supply the skin of the tragus and of the upper and fore part of the pinna.