SEMI SPINALIS. MULTIFIDUS SPINiE. 311 capsular ligaments uniting them ; it is also frequently joined by one or two slender fasciculi from the lowest cervical or highest dorsal spines. It is inserted into the large internal impression between the two curved lines of the occipital bone. It is narrower above than below, and its inner margin in the neck is in contact with the ligamentiun undue. An irregular, commonly imperfect, tendinous intersection crosses the muscle about the level of the spine of the axis ; and lower down, another longer one interrupts the fibres of the inner portion of the muscle, which is more or less separate from the rest, and is hence sometimes described independently under the name of biventer cervicis. Relations.—The complexus muscle is covered by the splenius, except at its lowest origins from the dorsal vertebrae and at the internal portion of its upper extremity ; the trachelo-mastoid and transversalis cervicis rest upon its series of origins ; and the semispinalis colli, the posterior recti, and the obliqui capitis, together with the deep cervical artery, are concealed by it. The semispinalis muscle consists of bundles of fibres extending from transverse processes to spines, and crossing over from four to six vertebra?. It is described in two parts. a. The semispinalis colli is the part under cover of the complexus. It arises from the upper five or six dorsal transverse processes, and is in- serted into the spines of the cervical vertebrae from the second to the fifth, inclusive, being thickest at its insertion into the second vertebra. b. The semispinalis clorsi consists of narrow muscular bundles inter- posed between tendons of considerable length, and forms an elongated thin stratum, especially towards its lower border. It arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae from the sixth to the tenth inclusive, and is inserted into the last two cervical and from four to six upper dorsal spines. The multifidus spinas muscle occupies the vertebral groove by side of the row of spinous processes, reaching from the sacrum to the axis, and passing up under cover of the semispinalis. It is much more largely developed towards the lower than at the upper end of the column and is thinnest m the dorsal region. In the sacral region the fibres arise from the deep surface of the tendinous origin of the erector spime, from the groove on the back of the sacrum as low as the fourth foramen, from the inner part of the posterior extremity of the ilium, and from the posterior sacro-iliac ligament; m the lumbar region they take origin from the mammillary processes ; in the dorsal region from the transverse processes ; and in the neck from the articular processes of the four lower cervical vertebra?. From these several points the mus- cular bundles ascend obliquely, to be inserted into the spines of the vertebrae, from their bases to their extremities. The fibres from each point of origin are fixed to several vertebrae, some being inserted into the side of the spinous process next but one above, and others ascending more and more vertically as high as the fourth from the place of origin, the longer fibres from one origin overlapping those from the origin next above. The rotatores dorsi are eleven small muscles on each side, which may be regarded as the deepest fibres of the multifidus spina? in the dorsal region, and are distinguished by being more nearly horizontal than the rest. Each arises from the upper and back part of the transverse process of one vertebra, and is inserted into the inferior margin of the lamina of the vertebra next above. Similar small slips between adjacent vertebra?,