678 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE TRUNK. respectively, from above downwards, epigastric, umbilical, and hypo- gastric, and the lateral ones, right and left hypochondriac, lumbar, Fig. 369. Fig. 369.—Outline of the front of THE ABDOMEN, SHOWING THE DIVISION INTO REGIONS. 1, epigastric region ; 2, umbilical; 3, hypogastric ; 4, 4, right and left hypo- chondriac ; 5, 5, right and left lumbar ; 6, 6, right and left iliac. and iliac. The lowest portion of the hypogastric region, being- covered with hair, is also referred to as the pubes or pubic region ; and the adjacent parts of the iliac and hypogastric regions together constitute what is known as the inguinal region or the groin. The viscera which are contained in the several regions are shown in the following table :— Epigastric region Hypochondriac, right... Hypochondriac, left ... Umbilical Lumbar, right Lumbar, left Hypogastric Iliac, right Iliac, left ' The greater part or the whole of the left lobe, and part of the right lobe of the liver, with the gall- bladder, part of the stomach including both orifices, the first and second parts of the duodenum, the pan- creas, upper or inner end of the spleen, parts of the kidneys, and the suprarenal capsules. The greater part of the right lobe of the liver, the ( hepatic flexure of the colon, and part of the right ‘| kidney. 'r Part of the stomach, with the greater portion of I the spleen and the tail of the pancreas, the splenic - flexure of the colon, part of the left kidney, and ( sometimes a part of the left lobe of the liver. / The greater part of the transverse colon, the third ' part of the duodenum, some convolutions of the jeju- num and ileum, with portions of the mesentery and I great omentum, and part of both kidneys. ( The ascending colon, part of the right kidney, and | part of the ileum. C The descending colon, part of the left kidney, and 'I part of the jejunum. I The convolutions of the ileum, the bladder in ' children, and if distended in adults also, the uterus when in the gravid state, and behind, the sigmoid ( flexure and upper part of the rectum. ( The cecum with the vermiform appendage, and the ( termination of the ileum. j The sigmoid flexure of the colon, convolutions of l the jejunum and ileum. The Avail of the abdomen is formed at the front and sides mainly by muscles, and the forms to be recognised on the surface are for the most part to be referred to these. Anteriorly, the rectus muscle extends on