VEINS OP THE SriNE. 516 placed between the posterior common ligament and the bones, and con- stricted over each intervertebral disc, at which point an offset is sent outwards through the corresponding intervertebral foramen. Superiorly, the anterior spinal veins communicate with the basilar sinus through the foramen magnum, and form, with the posterior longitudinal veins and the lower end of the occipital sinus, a venous ring in the substance of the dura mater round that opening. Fig. 299, A and B.—Horizontal and sagittal SECTIONS OF LOWER DORSAL VERTEBRAE, SHOWING THE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL VEINS OF THE SPINE (after Brescliet). § a, spinous process; b, transverse process; c, body ; cl, spinal canal; 1, external veins of the body ; 2, dorsal spinal veins, communicating with the internal and forming a plexus over the laminie and processes ; 3, posterior, and 4, anterior internal plexus of veins of the spinal canal; 5, internal veins of the body joining the anterior spinal veins ; 6, posterior branches of the intercostal veins. The posterior longitudinal spinal veins, also two in number, are contained in the loose tissue between the dura mater and the posterior wall of the spinal canal. They are often much broken up in parts of their course, and they communicate with one another by numerous cross branches on the anterior surface of the arches of the vertebrae, with the dorsal spinal veins by branches perforating the ligamenta subflava, and with the occipital sinus by branches which ascend through the fora- men magnum. From the plexus thus formed offsets pass outwards to the intervertebral foramina, where they join the similar branches given off by the anterior longitudinal veins. The veins of the spinal cord are of small size and run with a tortuous course in the substance of the pia mater, where they form a network with elongated meshes. They are larger below than above, and one vessel, which exceeds the others in size, lies beneath the ante- rior spinal artery over the anterior median fissure of the cord. They communicate with the veins of the spinal canal by means of branches which accompany the nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and at the upper end of the cord they unite to form two or three small trunks which join the inferior cerebellar veins, or open into the inferior petrosal sinuses. From a consideration of the connection and arrangement of the different parts of these complex veins, it would appear that the main currents of the blood flow through them horizontally in the rings that are formed by the'transverse branches between the longitudinal veins, and the offsets proceeding from the latter to the intervertebral fora- mina. The veins issuing from the spinal canal open, according to the region in which they are placed, into the vertebral veins, into the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar veins, and into the lateral sacral veins.