704 THE PERINEUM OF THE MALE. the fascia propria of the hernia (Cooper), ft sometimes happens that the hernia is protruded through an openiug in the sheath, which there- fore in that event does not contribute to form the fascia propria. Lastly, the hernia is covered by the cribriform fascia stretching across the saphenous opening, the superficial fascia and the skin. Fig. 379. r Fig. 379.—View op tiie relations op THE VESSELS OP THE GROIN TO A FEMORAL HERNIA (R. Qliain). \ In the upper part of the figure a portion of the flat muscles of the abdo- men has been removed, displaying in part the transversalis fascia and perito- neal lining of the abdomen; in the lower, the fascia lata of the thigh is in part removed and the sheath of the femoral vessels opened : the sac of the hernial tumour has also been opened. a, anterior superior spinous process of the ilium ; b, aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle above the exter- nal inguinal aperture ; c, the abdomi- nal peritoneum and fascia transver- salis ; </, iliac portion of the fascia lata, near the saphenous opening; e, sac of the femoral hernia ; 1, femoral artery ; 2, femoral vein at the place where it is joined by the saphenous vein ; 3, epigas- i trie artery and vein ; x , placed upon the upper part of the femoral vein, close below the common trunk of the epigastric and an aberrant obturator artery ; the latter artery is seen in I this case to pass close to the vein and between it and the neck of the hernial tumour. THE PERINEUM OF THE MALE. The perineum is the region which is included within the outlet of the pelvis, and which is traversed by the lower end of the rectum and by the urethra. It extends, therefore, from the apex of the subpubic arch in front to the tip of the coccyx behind, and from the ischial tuberosity of one side to that of the other. It is bounded on each side, at the fore part, by the conjoined rami of the pubis and ischium, and at the back part, by the great sacro-sciatic ligament together with a portion of the lower border of the gluteus maximus muscle. Its form is rather heart- shaped in consequence of the projection of the coccyx posteriorly ; it measures about three and a half inches from side to side, and about four inches over the curved surface (three and a quarter inches in a straight line) from before back in the middle line. The perineal space is sepa- rated from the pelvic cavity above by the recto-vesical fascia and the levatores ani muscles; its depth is considerable (from two to three inches) at the posterior and outer part, much less (not exceeding an inch) at the fore part. The perineal space is conveniently divided into two parts by a line drawn across from one ischial tuberosity to the other, and passing imme- diately in front of the anus. The anterior division is termed the