435 VISCERAL BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. artery, arising by a short common stem from the front of the aorta immediately below the meeting of the crura of the diaphragm ; 4, cceliac axis ; 5, superior mesenteric artery ; 6, 6, renal arteries ; O', 6' suprarenal arteries arising partly from the aorta and partly from the inferior phrenic ; 7, placed on the front of the aorta below the origin of the sperma- tic arteries ; 7, 7', placed on the psoas muscles, point to the right and left spermatic arteries as they descend to the internal abdominal rings ; 8, inferior mesenteric artery ; 9, 9, 9, lumbar arteries ; 9', lowest lumbar artery; 10, 10, common iliac arteries ; 11, between the external and internal iliac arteries ; 12, left epigastric artery ; 13, circumflex iliac; 14, branches of the ilio-lumbar. mesenteric, the suprarenal, the renal, and the spermatic arteries ; while in the latter are included the phrenic, the lumbar, and the middle sacral arteries. The first three of the visceral branches are single arteries. Varieties.—Place of division.—In more than three-fourths of a considerable number of cases, the aorta divided either upon the fourth lumbar vertebra, or upon the intervertebral disc below it; in one case out of nine it was below, and in about one out of eleven above the spot thus indicated : in ten bodies out of every thirteen, the division of the great artery took place within half an inch above or below the level of the iliac crest (R. Quain). An instance of bifurcation imme- diately below the origin of the right renal artery is recorded by Haller (Disputat. Anatom., t. vi.,p. 781), and division opposite the second lumbar vertebra has been observed by Boinct (Arch. gen. de Med., 1835, vii.,233), Cruveilhier (“ Anatomic,” 5th Ed., iii., 148), and Eckhard (Zeitsch. f. rat. Med., xxxi., 408). Unusual branch.—Two remarkable cases are recorded of the existence of a large pulmonary branch which arose from the abdominal aorta, close to the cceliac axis, and, after passing upwards through the oesophageal opening in the dia- phragm, divided into two branches, which were distributed to the lungs near their bases (see Henle, op. cit., p. 292). A.-VISCERAL BRANCHES OP THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. The cceliac artery or axis (i) is a short wide vessel, usually not more than half an inch in length, which arises from the front of the aorta close to the margin of the opening in the diaphragm. It is directed nearly horizontally forwards at the upper border of the pancreas, being placed behind the small omentum and close to the left side of the Spigelian lobule of the liver. The two semilunar ganglia of the sympa- thetic are also contiguous to it, one on each side. The artery divides into three branches, viz., the coronary artery of the stomach, the hepatic, and the splenic, which separate simultaneously from the end of the trunk like radii from an axis. Varieties.—Tlie cceliac axis is occasionally partly covered at its origin by the diaphragm. It may be longer than usual, in which case its branches are not given off together ; or it may be entirely wanting, the coronary, hepatic, and splenic arteries arising separately from the aorta. In some cases the cceliac artery gives off only two branches at its division (the coronary and the splenic), the hepatic being supplied from another source. Rarely, it gives more than three branches to the viscera, the additional vessel being a second coronary, or a separate gastro- duodenal artery. One or both phrenic arteries are frequently derived from this trunk. Cases have been met with in which a connection existed between the cceliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery close to their origin. A. The coronary artery of the stomach (iii-iv), the smallest of the three branches derived from the cceliac axis, runs at first upwards and to the left side, and reaches the cardiac orifice of the stomach. It then F F 2