BONES OF TIIE LOWER LIMB. 104 animals there are always two epiphyses in these hones. The epiphyses begin to be ossified from the third to the fifth year, and are united to their respective shafts about the twentieth year. The terminal phalanges of the digits present the remarkable peculiarity that the ossification of their shafts commences at the distal extremity, instead of in the middle of their length, as is the case with the other phalanges and with the long bones generally (Schafer and Dixey, Proc. Roy. Soc. xxx. 550, xxxi. 03). V.—THE PELVIS ANTE LOWER LIMB. The divisions of the lower limb are the haunch or hip, thigh, leg, and foot. In the haunch is the hip-bone, which enters into the formation of the pelvis; in the thigh is the femur; in the leg the tibia and fibula; and at the knee a large sesamoid bone, the patella. The foot is composed of three parts, viz., the tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. THE HIP-BONE. The hip-bone, os coxa, or innominate lone, with its neighbour of the opposite side and the addition of the sacrum and coccyx, forms the pelvis ; it transmits the weight of the body to the lower limb. It is constricted in the middle and expanded above and below, and is so curved that whilst the upper part is nearly vertical the lower part is directed inwards. On the external aspect of the constricted portion Fig. 85. 5 Fig. 85.—Right inr-BOXE, outer surface. (A. T.) \ 1, anterior superior, 2, anterior inferior spine; 3, posterior superior, 4, posterior inferior spine ; 5, crest of the ilium; 6, surface occupied by the gluteus medius muscle above the middle curved line ; between 6 and 3 are seen the superior curved line and the rough surface for the gluteus maximus; 7, surface be- tween the middle and inferior curved lines occupied by the gluteus minimus; 8, impression of the pos- terior tendon of the rectus femoris; 9, superior ramus of the pubis, and ilio-pectineal eminence; 10, crest and spine of the pubis ; 11, place of meeting of the inferior ramus of the pubis with the ramus of the ischium ; 12, spine, and 13, tuber- osity of the ischium ; 14, articular portion, 15, non-articular portion of the acetabulum ; 16, thyroid or obturator foi-amen ; 17, great, and 18, small sciatic notches. is the acetabulum, a cavity which articulates with the femur, and perforating the in- ferior expansion is a large opening, the obturator foramen. The superior wider part of the bone forms part of the abdominal wall : the inferior enters into the formation of the true pelvis. The hip-bone articulates with its fellow of the opposite side, with the sacrum, and with the femur.