Fig. 58.—Skull of a child at birth, seen from BONES OF THE HEAD. Fig. 58. 70 Fig. 59.—Separate parts of the temporal bone Fig. 59. a vertical median suture during the first year. This frontal suture usually be- comes obliterated by osseous union taking place from below upwards, during the second year, though not unfrequently it persists throughout life. The frontal sinuses appear about the second year, and continue to increase in size up to old age. The Fontanelles. These are membranous intervals between the incomplete angles of the parietal and neighbouring bones, in some of which movements of the soft wall of the cranium may be observed in connection with variations in the state of the circulation and respiration. They are six in number, two median, above (from Leiskman). a a, anterior fontanelle ; p, posterior fontanelle; b, b, parietal eminences ; for the lateral fontanelles, see fig. 65, p. 79. anterior and posterior, and four lateral. The anterior fontanelle, situated between the an- tero-superior angles of the parietal bones and the superior angles of the ununited halves of the frontal bone, is quadrangular in form, and remains open for some time after birth. The posterior fontanelle, situated between the p>os- tero-superior angles of the parietal bones and the superior angle of the occipital bone, is triangular in shape. It is filled up before birth, but the edges of the bones, being united by membrane only, are still freely movable upon each other. The lateral fontanelles, small and of irregular form, are situated at the inferior angles of the parietal bones. The fontanelles are gradually filled up by the extension of ossification into the membrane which occupies them, thus completing the angles of the bones and forming the sutures. The closure, especially of the posterior and lateral, is often assisted by the development of Wormian bones in these situations. All traces of these unossified spaces disappear before the age of four years. The temporal bone in the later stages of foetal life consists of three principal pieces, the squamo-zygomatic, petro-mastoid, and tympanic. The squamo-zygomatic is ossified in membrane from a single nucleus, which appears in the lower part of OF A CHILD AT BIRTH (R. Quain). a, squamo-zygomatic ; b, tympanic, forming an imperfect ring, open superiorly ; c, petro-mastoid, c being placed on the mastoid part. the squamosal about the seventh or eighth week. From this point ossification extends upwards into the squamosal, and outwards into the zygoma. During the third month an osseous nucleus appears in the lower part of the external mem- branous wall of the tympanum, and extends upwards forming the tympanic ring, an imper- fect circle, open superiorly, and which encloses the tympanic membrane. Before birth the ex- tremities of this ring become united with the squamo-zygomatic. Petro-mastoid or periotic. The ossification of this part of the temporal bone does not begin so soon as that of the other parts. It is only towards the end of the fifth month and in the course of the sixth that the bony parts of the internal ear begin to appear in the cartilage which precedes them. The osseous deposit takes place at many points, the chief of which are situated in the wall of the labyrinth in connection with the formation of the cochlea and semicircular canals, and the different nuclei soon unite. According to Huxley the principal ossific centres come to be disposed so as to form three portions, to which he has