570 CRANIAL NERVES. branches are furnished to the mucous membrane of the mouth, the lower teeth and gums, the salivary glands, and the articulation of the lower jaw. This nerve supplies the muscles of mastication, viz., the masseter, temporal, and two pterygoids ; also the mylo-hyoid, the anterior belly of the digastric, the tensor palati and tensor tympani muscles. VI.—ABDUCENT NERVE. The sixth nerve (abducent nerve of the eyeball, external oculomotor) makes its appearance as a flattened band in the groove between the pons and the medulla oblongata, immediately external to the upper end of the pyramid. One or two of the innermost bundles frequently issue between the fibres of the pyramid, or from the lower edge of the pons. The nerve speedily becomes rounded, and is directed forwards to an aperture in the dura mater at the lower and outer part of the dorsum sell®. It then continues its course forwards, lying close to the floor of the cavernous sinus, in contact with the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and passes into the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and between the heads of the external rectus, to be distributed to that muscle, which it pierces on its ocidar surface (fig. 315, 6 ; fig. 318, 5). As the nerve enters the orbit, it is placed below the other nerves passing through the sphenoidal fissure, but above the ophthalmic veins. While contained in the cavernous sinus, the sixth nerve is joined by filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, and as it enters the orbit it receives a small filament from the ophthalmic nerve (Rosenthal). Variety.—Absence of the sixth nerve upon one side is recorded, its place being supplied by a branch of the third nerve (Generali). VII.—FACIAL NERVE. . The seventh or facial nerve (portio dura of the seventh pair of Willis) takes its superficial origin from the uppermost part of the medulla oblongata, in the depression between the olivary and restiform bodies, where it emerges in a line with the roots of the fifth nerve, and close to the lower edge of the pons, to which it is frequently adherent for a short distance. To its outer side is the auditory nerve, and between the two is a slender fasciculus (fig. 310, between vn and vm), which is known as the jiortio or pars intermedia of Wrisberg, and joins the facial nerve in the auditory canal. This intermediate part is frequently connected more or less closely at its origin with one or both of the nerves between which it lies, and in many cases a few of its fibres pass distally into the auditory nerve (E. Bischoff, Henle). From its origin, the facial nerve is directed outwards in company with the auditory nerve to the internal auditory meatus. Here the facial lies in a groove along the upper and fore part of the auditory nerve, and the portio intermedia is placed between the two. At the bottom of the meatus the facial nerve enters the aqueduct of Fallopius, and follows the windings of that canal through the temporal bone to the lower surface of the skull. It passes at first horizontally outwards for a short distance, between the cochlea and vestibule, to the inner wall of the tympanum, where it bends sharply backwards above the fenestra ovalis, and then arches downwards behind the pyramid and the tympanic cavity to issue