CRANIAL NERVES. the third, the longest of the three, runs onwards between the lower and the outer rectus, and terminates below the ball of the eye in the inferior oblique muscle. The last-mentioned branch is connected with the lower part of the lenticular ganglion by a short thick offset (slwrt root of the ganglion), and gives one or two filaments to the lower rectus muscle. The several branches of the third nerve enter the muscles to which they are distributed on the surface which in each is turned towards the eyeball, with the exception of that to the inferior oblique, which pene- trates the hinder border of its muscle. Varieties.—The third nerve has been seen in a few cases giving a branch to the external rectus (Cruveilhier, Fasebeck, C. Krause), and in one instance a branch of the third supplied the place of the sixth nerve which was wanting (Generali). The branch to the inferior oblique muscle was seen by Arnold to pass through the lower part of the lenticular ganglion, and by Ilenle to pierce the inferior rectus. Position of certain nerves at the cavernous sinus, and as they enter the orbit.—There are several nerves, besides the third, placed close together at the cavernous sinus, and entering the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. To avoid repetition hereafter, the relative positions of these nerves may now be described. The nerves thus associated are the third, the fourth, the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth. At the cavernous sinus.—In the dura mater which bounds the cavernous sinus on the outer side, the third and fourth nerves and the ophthalmic division of the fifth are placed, as regards one another, in their numerical order both from above downwards and from within out- wards. The sixth nerve is placed separately from the others close to the carotid artery on the floor of the sinus, and internally to the ophthalmic nerve. Near the sphenoidal fissure, through which they enter the orbit, the relative position of the nerves is changed, the sixth nerve being here close to the rest, and their number is augmented by the division of the third and the ophthalmic nerves—the former into two, the latter into three parts. In the sphenoidal fissure.—The fourth and the frontal and lachrymal branches of the fifth, which are here higher than the rest, lie on the same level, the fourth being the nearest to the inner side, and enter the orbit above the muscles. The remaining nerves pass between the heads of the external rectus muscle, in the following order from above down- wards ; the upper division of the third, the nasal branch of the fifth, the lower division of the third, and, lowest of all, the sixth. IV.—TROCHLEAR NERVE. The fourth, trochlear, or pathetic nerve is the smallest of the cranial nerves, and has the longest course within the cranial cavity. It is distributed solely to the superior oblique muscle of the eye. Taking its superficial origin close below the corpora quadrigemina from the upper part of the valve of Yieussens, the fourth nerve is directed at first outwards across the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, and then turns forwards round the outer side of the crus cerebri (fig. 311), lying parallel to and between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries. It enters an aperture in the dura mater immediately