ANGEIOLOGY The vascular system, as a whole, comprehends two sets of vessels, viz., those carrying blood and those carrying lymph or chyle. The first, constituting the sanguiferous system, includes the heart or central pro- pelling organ and the peripheral channels for the blood, viz., the arteries, capillaries and veins. The absorbent system includes the lymphatic and lacteal vessels, together with the lymphatic and mesenteric glands with which many of these vessels are connected. The descriptive anatomy of the heart is given with that of the thoracic viscera in the second volume : the account of the minute structure of the blood-vessels and of the lymphatic vessels and glands will be found in the part of the same volume which treats of General Anatomy. Under the present division, therefore, will be brought only the descriptive anatomy of the principal blood-vessels and absorbent vessels. 1.—BLOOD-VESSELS. ARTERIES AND VEINS. The descriptive anatomy of the blood-vessels includes an account of their origin, extent, form, position, mode of division, distribution, anas- tomosis with each other, and relations to other parts. Seeing, however, that the blood-vessels are subject to frec|uent variations, while the most constant forms and modes of distribution are described as the normal, it will be necessary also to make frequent reference to the more important varieties which have been observed among them. The varieties of blood-vessels may consist of a deviation either from the usual size of the channels or from their usual position and their connection with other vessels. In the latter case they may be described as consisting in differences of origin from the main stem, or from a branch, or from quite another source than that which is the most common or usual. But some varieties are so common that it becomes doubtful which form is to be described as normal. Many of these varieties are not only compatible with life, but cause no disturbance whatever in the performance of the ordinary functions of the body. Others are of such a nature as to be compatible only with the conditions of the circulation subsisting during intrauterine life, and therefore prove fatal at birth. Some are of considerable interest from their frequency, and others from their existing in situations which are liable to diseases requiring surgical operations for their cure. Many vascular varieties repeat forms which are natural in different species among the lower animals ; others are obviously due to the per- sistence of early foetal forms of distribution ; and not a few are expli-