VOL. i. T 1- PLANTAR NERVES. C41 nerve close above its division to the inner side of the ankle-joint (Riidinger). Internal plantar nerve.—The internal plantar, the larger of the two nerves to the sole of the foot into which the posterior tibial divides, accompanies the internal or smaller plantar artery, and supplies nerves to both sides of the inner three toes, and to one side of the fourth. From the point at which it separates from the posterior tibial nerve, it is directed forwards under cover of the first part of the abductor of the great toe ; then passing between that muscle and the short flexor of the toes, it gives otf the internal collateral branch for the great toe, and divides opposite the middle of the foot into three digital branches. The outermost of these branches communicates with the external plantar nerve. The distribution of this nerve in the foot closely resembles that of the median nerve in the hand. Branches. — («) Muscular branches are supplied to the abductor hallucis and flexor brevis digitorum. (b) Small y?lantar cutaneous branches perforate the plantar fascia to ramify in the integument of the sole of the foot. (c) The digital branches are named numerically from within outwards : the outer three pass from under cover of the plantar fascia near the clefts between the toes. The first or innermost branch continues single, but the other three bifurcate to supply the adjacent sides of two toes. They are distributed as follows :— The first digital branch is destined for the inner side of the great toe : it becomes subcutaneous farther back than the others, and sends off a branch to the flexor brevis hallucis muscle. The second branch, having reached the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones, furnishes a small twig to the first lumbricalis muscle, and bifurcates behind the cleft between the great toe and the second to supply their contiguous sides. The third digital branch, corresponding with the second interosseous space, gives a slender filament to the second lumbricalis muscle, and divides in a manner similar to that of the second branch into two offsets for the sides of the second and third toes. The fourth digital branch, distributed to the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes, receives a communicating branch from the external plantar nerve. Along the sides of the toes, cutaneous and articular filaments are given from these digital nerves ; and, opposite the ungual phalanx, each sends a dorsal branch to the pulp beneath the nail, and then runs on to the ball of the toe, where it is distributed like the nerves of the fingers. External plantar nerve.—The external plantar nerve completes the supply of digital nerves to the toes, furnishing branches to the little toe and half the fourth ; it also gives a deep branch of con- siderable size, which is distributed to several of the short muscles in the sole of the foot. There is thus a great resemblance between the distribution of this nerve in the foot and that of the ulnar nerve in the hand. The external plantar nerve runs obliquely forwards towards the outer side of the foot, along with the external plantar artery, between the flexor brevis digitorum and the flexor accessorius, as far as the interval between the former muscle and the abductor of the little toe. Here it