221 SUPINATOR AND EXTENSOR MUSCLES. neurotic bands, which are given off from the margins of each, and directed forwards by side of the joint, to blend with the palmar ligament of the articulation. Varieties.—The varieties of the extensor communis digitorum resolve them- selves chiefly into the following, viz., 1st, the occasional deficiency of one or more of the tendons of insertion, and 2nd, more frequently an increase in their number. This last goes in some instances to the extent of doubling- the tendon to each of the fingers, and even of tripling it to one or two of them. More frequently, however, the increase in number of the tendons is limited to the index or little finger alone. The extensor minimi digiti is a slender muscle which is placed between the extensor communis digitorum and the extensor carpi ulnaris, and arises by means of a thin tendon in common with the extensor communis. The tendon in which it ends occupies a groove between the radius and ulna, passing through a special compartment in the annular ligament; on the back of the hand it becomes split into two, the outer division being joined by the fourth tendon of the common extensor, and both parts end in the dorsal expansion of the little finger, in the formation of which it takes by far the greater share. Varieties.—This muscle is subject to an increase in the number of its tendons of insertion, and in a large proportion of the cases the additional tendon is inserted into the ring-finger. The entire absence of the muscle has also been observed. The extensor carpi ulnaris, the most internal of the muscles descending on the back of the forearm, arises from the external con- dyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from a strong intermuscular septum on its outer side, and from the fascia of the forearm. The belly of the muscle is in its middle third closely bound down to the posterior border of the ulna by the fascia, and it occasionally receives a few addi- tional fibres from this portion of the bone. The fleshy fibres are collected round a tendon which becomes free a little above the wrist, and runs through a special groove in the carpal end of the ulna and a separate sheath in the annular ligament, to be inserted into the tuberosity on the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. Varieties.—This muscle is frequently connected with the abductor minimi cligiti. It also sometimes sends a prolongation to the extensor tendons on the back of the little finger, which has been named ■ulnaris quinti. The deep-seated muscles on the back of the forearm are five in number, the supinator brevis, the three extensors of the thumb, and the extensor of the index finger. The supinator radii brevis muscle arises from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, from the annular ligament of the radius, and from a depression below the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, extending downwards a short distance along the outer border of the bone. The fleshy fibres derived from these points of attachment, as well as from a tendinous expansion on the surface, which can be followed up to the external condyle, pass obliquely round the upper part of the radius, covering it closely except at the inner side, and are inserted into that bone, for rather more than a third of its length, reaching down to the insertion of the pronator radii teres. It is pierced by the posterior in-