BOXES OF THE HEAD. 38 Fig. 33.—Right tempo- Fig. 33. is situated at its base ; it is known as the foramen actum, but may transmit a minute vein from the nasal fossae. The upper and greater part of the edge encompassing the cerebral surface of the bone is serrated, and articulates with the parietal bones in the coronal suture in the manner before described ; the lower transverse part is thin and uneven, and articulates with the greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid. The adult frontal bone is frequently divided into two parts by a median suture, the frontal or metopic suture which may be regarded as the persistence of the original foetal condition ; a trace of this suture is to be seen even in the oldest skulls above the root of the nose. THE TEMPORAL BONE. The temporal bone takes part in the formation of the side and base of the skull, and. contains in its interior the organ of hearing. It is usually described in three parts, viz., an expanded anterior and superior part, the squamous portion including the zygomatic process, a thicker posterior portion, the mastoid, and below and between these the petrous portion, a three-sided pyramid, exhibiting at its base externally the aperture of the ear, and projecting forwards and inwards into the base of the skull. It articulates posteriorly and internally with the occipital bone, superiorly with the parietal, anteriorly with the sphenoid, by the zygomatic process with the malar, and by the glenoid cavity with the inferior maxillary bone. The squamous portion, or squamo-zygomatic, extends forwards and upwards from its connection with the other portions, and presents supe- riorly an arched border which describes about two-thirds of a circle. The inner surface is marked by cerebral impressions, and by meningeal grooves. At its upper border the outer table is prolonged considerably ral BONE FROM THE OUTSIDE. (A. T.) | 1, squamous part ; 2, zygoma ; 3, mastoid part,, 3 x , mastoid process; 4, articular part of the gle- noid fossa; 5, articular eminence at the root of the zygoma, and above it the tubercle ; 6, fissure of Glaser ; 7, tympanic plate forming the posterior noil-articular part of the glenoid fossa, terminating inferiorly in the vaginal process; 8, external au- ditory meatus ; 9, auditory process; 10, styloid pro- cess ; 13 x , mastoid fora- men. beyond the inner, forming a thin scale with the fluted surface looking inwards and overlapping the corresponding bevelled edge of the parietal hone. But in front the border is thicker, looks forwards and inwards, and is serrated for articulation with the great wing of the sphenoid.