366 ARTERIES OP THE HEAD AND NECK. EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (II). Position and relations.—The external carotid artery, distributed mainly to the face and to the walls of the cranium, is smaller than the internal in young persons ; but the two are nearly of equal size in adults. It reaches from the point of division of the common carotid, opposite the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, to the neck of the lower jaw, where it divides into its two terminal branches, the superficial temporal and the internal maxillary. It diminishes rapidly as it ascends, owing to the number and size of the branches which spring from it. At first the external carotid lies in front of and somewhat nearer the mesial plane than the internal carotid ; but it soon becomes superficial to that artery, inclining slightly backwards as it ascends to its place of division. In its lower part the artery is covered by the platysma myoides and the fascia, and in the natural condition of the parts it is overlapped by the sterno-mastoid {cf. p. 362) ; in its upper part it is deeply placed, passing first beneath the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles, and finally becoming embedded in the substance of the parotid gland. At its commencement it is in contact with the pharynx and hyoid bone ; farther up it is separated by a portion of the parotid gland from the back of the ramus of the lower jaw and the stylo-maxillary ligament, and rests upon the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, which, with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, are interposed between it and the internal carotid artery. Relation to veins.—This artery has usually no companion vein, but in the parotid gland the temporo-maxillary trunk is superficial to it, and the anterior division of this, passing down to join the facial vein, is sometimes placed with the artery beneath the digastric muscle ; below the digastric it is crossed by the facial and lingual veins as they pass backwards to open into the internal jugular. Relation to nerves.—Close to the lower border of the digastric muscle the external carotid artery is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and at a short distance from its upper end, in the substance of the parotid gland, by the facial nerve. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve lies between it and the internal carotid ; and the superior laryngeal nerve is on the inner side of both vessels. Branches.—The branches of the external carotid artery are eight in number, viz., three directed forwards, the superior -thyroid, the lingual, and the facial ; two directed backwards, the occipital and posterior auricular; one on the inner side, the ascending pharyngeal; and the superficial temporal and internal maxillary, the two terminal branches into which the trunk divides. In addition to the principal branches here enumerated, the external carotid gives off small offsets to the parotid gland, and to the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. Varieties.—The peculiarities in the origin of this vessel have been noticed along with the varieties of the common carotid artery. Absence of the external carotid artery has been met with in some rare cases, the several branches arising at intervals from a single trunk which represented the common and internal carotids. The branches are not unfrequently crowded together on the main stem, near the commencement, or at a higher point. Occasionally they take origin at regular distances in the whole length of the vessel. The usual number of branches may be diminished by the origin from another artery of one of the