572 CRANIAL NERVES. Branches.—A. Arising from the facial nerve during its coarse through the temporal bone :— Communicating filaments with the auditory nerve.—These are one or two slender twigs passing between the geniculate ganglion and the upper division of the eighth nerve at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus. The large superficial petrosal nerve is directed forwards from the geniculate ganglion, and issues by the hiatus Fallopii on the upper surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Inclining downwards beneath the Gasserian ganglion, the nerve enters the foramen lacerum, and is continued across the outer side of the internal carotid artery to the posterior opening of the Vidian canal, where it unites with the large deep petrosal nerve (derived from the sympathetic on the carotid artery) to form the Vidian nerve joining the back of the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 5C3). Communication with the small superficial petrosal nerve.—A minute branch connects the geniculate ganglion with the small super- ficial petrosal nerve passing from the tympanic plexus to the otic ganglion (p. 577). The external superficial petrosal nerve (Bidder) unites the geniculate ganglion with the sympathetic filaments on the middle meningeal artery. This nerve is not always present (Rauber). A branch to the stapedius muscle is given off by the facial nerve as it descends behind the pyramid. Chorda tympani.—The branch named chorda tympani arises from the facial nerve at the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and is directed upwards and forwards through a small canal which opens on the posterior wall of the tympanum, close to the attachment of the tympanic membrane. It then arches forwards, being invested by the mucous lining of the cavity, across the upper part of the membrane and over the inner side of the handle of the malleus, above the insertion of the tensor tympani muscle. Finally, leaving the cavity by an aperture at the inner end of the Glaserian fissure, the nerve inclines downwards on the mesial side of the internal lateral ligament of the jaw, and unites at an acute angle with the lingual nerve, in which its fibres are continued to the submaxillary ganglion and the tongue. Before joining the lingual nerve, the chorda receives a communicating filament from the otic ganglion. A communication with the auricular branch of the pneumo- gastric nerve is generally present, in the form of a twig leaving the facial nerve close above the stylo-mastoid foramen (see p. 582). B. Arising from the facial nerve below the base of the sJcull ••— The posterior auricular nerve arises close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and turns upwards between the car and the mastoid process, where it divides into auricular and occipital branches. The auricular branch ascends behind the ear and is distributed to the retrahens auriculam and the small muscles on the cranial surface of the pinna. A twig is sometimes continued upwards to the hinder part of the attollens muscle. The occipital branch is directed backwards close to the bone, and supplies the posterior part of the occipito-frontalis muscle. The posterior auricular nerve receives communications from the great auricular and small occipital nerves of the cervical plexus, as well as from the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric, and certain filaments