OLFACTORY NERVES. 54D On pages 54G and 547, fig. 313 is introduced in illustration of the general view of the distribution above given. In this figure the cranium and orbit have been opened up to the depth of the several foramina through which the nerves pass. The great part of the lower jaw has also been removed on the left side, and the tongue, pharynx, and larynx are partially in view. The occipital bone has been divided by an incision passing down from the occipital protuberance and through the condyle to the left of the foramen magnum. The cervical vertebrae have been divided to the left of the middle, and the sheath of the spinal cord opened so as to expose the roots of the cervical nerves. I.—OLFACTORY NERVES. The olfactory nerves are slender filaments, about twenty in number, which spring from the under surface of the olfactory bulb, and descend to the nose through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, each being invested by tubular prolongations of the membranes of the brain. They form an inner group, which are lodged for some Fig. 314. Fig. 314.—Distribution op the olfactory nerves on the septum of the nose (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Levcille). -| The septum is exposed and the anterior palatine canal opened on the right side. I, points to the olfactory bulb, and the remaining Roman numbers to the several cranial nerves ; 1, the olfactory nerves as they pass through the cribriform plate ; 2, internal twig of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve ; 3, naso-palatine nerve. (See fig. 321, p. 563, for a view of the distribution of the olfactory nerves on the outer wall of the nasal fossa.) distance in groves on the surface of the vertical plate of the ethmoid, and then break up into tufts of branches before being distributed to the mucous membrane over that bone, and an outer group which ramify over the mesial surface of the lateral mass of the ethmoid, including the upper and middle turbinate hones. None of the branches reach the lower turbinate hone. The olfactory nerves are composed exclusively of non- medullated fibres, and their branches communicate freely with each other as they descend, thus giving rise to a narrow meshed plexus beneath the mucous membrane, especially on the outer wall of the fossa. (See also the anatomy of the nose in Yol. II.) Tlie olfactory lobe of the cerebral hemisphere is sometimes described as the olfactory nerve (see Yol. II., pp. 331 and 334).