G8L SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE BACK. and the third part of the duodenum is placed at a lower level, reaching to within about an inch of the umbilicus. The abdominal aorta passes downwards usually a little to the left of the mid-line of the body, although its lower end often occupies a mesial position, or may even extend over slightly to the right. The bifurcation occurs on the average about three-quarters of an inch below the um- bilicus, and the direction of the common and external iliac arteries is indicated by drawing a line from this point to another midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The inferior vena cava lies just to the right of the aorta. The coeliac axis arises opposite the lower part of the last dorsal vertebra, i.e., between four and five inches above the umbilicus ; the superior mesenteric artery a very little lower ; the two renal arteries about three and a half inches, and the inferior mesenteric about one inch above the umbilicus. THE BACK. At the back of the neck, a slight mesial depression, commencing immediately below the external occipital protuberance, descends over the ligamentum undue, between the prominences formed by the complexus and trapezius muscles of the two sides. By pressing deeply in this furrow, the spine of the axis is readily felt, and generally also the spines of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth vertebrae less distinctly. The furrow disappears gradually towards the root of the neck, where the spines of the seventh cervical and upper one or two dorsal vertebras become visible. The first spine to appear is usually that of the seventh cervical vertebra, but sometimes the sixth is long and comes to the surface : the most prominent is the first dorsal. They necessarily project more plainly when the neck is inclined forwards. Below these, the long spinal farrow descends in the middle line between the elevations formed by the erector spinas muscles covered above by the trapezius and below by the latissimus dorsi. The furrow is deepest in the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions, where the muscles are thickest and most fleshy ; in the lower lumbar region and over the upper part of the sacrum, the erector muscles are tendinous, and give rise to a somewhat lozenge- shaped flattened area through which the groove is continued, becoming gradually shallower, to terminate at the spine of the third piece of the sacrum (last sacral spine) in the angle formed by the meeting of the right and left gluteus maximus muscles. A little above and external to the latter point, a slight depression indicates the position of the posterior superior iliac spine. At the bottom of the spinal furrow, the spines may be felt and counted, the middle dorsal ones generally with considerable difficulty in the erect position, but most of them are rendered very evident by bending the column forwards. The fourth lumbar spine is on a level with the highest part of the crest of the ilium. The spine of the scapula is easily felt beneath the skin, and may be traced outwards (very little upwards when the arm is hanging) to the acromion, which is represented on the surface by a depression in a muscular subject, or when the arm is raised. The lower border of the spine and the outer border of the acromion meet in a prominent angle, which is always to be distinctly recognised on the surface ; from this point measurements of the length of the arm are most conveniently taken. The vertebral border and the inferior angle of the scapula are