6.') 6 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. the middle meningeal artery, twigs are described as extending to the otic ganglion, as well as to the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve (external superficial petrosal nerve, p. 572). One filament descends from these nerves to the carotid gland. Microscopic ganglia are frequently met with in the vascular plexuses, and several larger ones, of more constant occurrence, have been described. The most important of these is the temporal ganglion, of about a line in length, situated on the external carotid artery at the place of origin of the posterior auricular branch ; it is said to receive a filament from the stylo-hyoid branch of the facial nerve. MIDDLE CERVICAL GANGLION. The middle ganglion (thyroid ganglion), much the smallest of the cervical ganglia, is placed on or near the inferior thyroid artery, opposite the sixth cervical vertebra. It is usually connected with the fifth and sixth spinal nerves, but in a somewhat variable manner. It gives off* thyroid branches and the middle cardiac nerve. Thyroid branches.—From the inner side of the ganglion some twigs proceed along the inferior thyroid artery to the thyroid body, where they join the recurrent laryngeal and the external laryngeal nerves. While on the artery, these branches communicate with the upper cardiac nerve. The middle cardiac nerve (deep or great cardiac nerve) of the right side is prolonged to the chest either in front of or behind the subclavian artery. In the chest it lies on the trachea, where it is joined by filaments of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and it ends in the right side of the deep cardiac plexus. While in the neck, this nerve communicates with the upper cardiac nerve and the recurrent branch of the pneumo-gastric. On the left side, the middle cardiac nerve enters the chest between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and joins the left side of the deep cardiac plexus. Variety.—The middle cervical ganglion is sometimes absent, and in that case the middle cardiac nerve is given off by the interganglionic cord. LOWER CERVICAL GANGLION. The lower or third cervical ganglion is irregular in shape, usually somewhat flattened and round, or semilunar, and is frequently united to- the first thoracic ganglion. Placed in a hollow between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, it is concealed by the vertebral artery. It is connected by short communi- cating cords with the lowest two cervical nerves. Its branches are the lower cardiac nerve, and offsets to blood-vessels. The lower cardiac nerve, issuing from the third cervical ganglion or from the first thoracic, inclines inwards on the right side, behind the subclavian artery, and terminates in the cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. It communicates with the middle cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves behind the subclavian artery. On the left side, the lower cardiac often becomes blended with the middle cardiac nerve, and the cord resulting from their union terminates in the deep cardiac plexus. Brandies to blood vessels.—From the lowest cervical and first dorsal ganglia slender branches ascend along the vertebral artery in its canal, forming a plexus round the vessel by their intercommunications.