LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 531 of the back of the thigh lymphatics pass round on both sides to reach the inguinal glands. (Mascagni, “ Vasorum Lymph. Historia,” 1787.) The deep-seated lymphatics of the lower Limb are associated in their whole course with the deep blood-vessels. In the leg they consist of three divisions, namely, anterior tibial, posterior tibial, and peroneal. Neither these nor the superficial absorbents pass through any lymphatic gland in the leg, unless it be those lymphatics which accompany the anterior tibial artery, near which a small gland is sometimes found on the front of the interosseous membrane above the middle of the leg. The several sets of deep lymphatics in the leg enter the lymphatic glands situated in the popliteal space. The efferent vessels from those glands are joined by other lymphatics in contact with the branches of the femoral artery, and enter the deep inguinal glands. Other deep lymphatics derived from the muscles of the gluteal region, and many proceeding from the adductor muscles of the thigh, enter the cavity of the pelvis in company with the gluteal, sciatic, and obturator arteries, and open into a series of glands placed along the internal iliac vessels. The deep lymphatics of the buttock are sometimes interrupted by two or three small glands, situated in the neighbourhood of the great sacro- sciatic foramen. The superficial lymphatics of the lower half of the trunk con- verge to the superficial inguinal glands, the direction of some of them being indicated by the superficial circumflex iliac and epigastric, and the external pudic arteries. Externally they converge to the groin from the gluteal region and from the lower part of the back, those from the latter part crossing others which pass upwards to the axillary glands. Anteriorly they descend from the greater part of the surface of the abdomen, crossing and mingling above the umbilicus with vessels which ascend towards the axillary glands. The superficial lymphatics of the penis usually form three vessels, two being placed at the sides and the other on the dorsum of the organ. Commencing in the prepuce, and beneath the skin of the glaus and the mucous lining of the urethra, they pass backwards, unite on the upper surface of the penis, and, again subdividing, send branches on each side to the oblique inguinal glands. The deep-seated lymphatics of the penis pass with the pudic vessels under the pubic arch, and end in the glands on the internal iliac artery. The lymphatics of the scrotum pass to the superficial inguinal glands along the course of the external pudic arteries. The lymphatics of the external generative organs in the female present a disposition similar to that existing in the male. LYMPHATICS OF THE PELVIS AND ABDOMEN. The external iliac lymphatic glands, from six to ten or more in number, clustering round the external iliac artery and vein, receive the efferent vessels from the inguinal glands. The internal iliac lymphatic glands, a numerous series placed along the internal iliac vessels, and the sacral glands, placed in the hollow of the sacrum, receive the lymphatics from the pelvic viscera and parietes. The lymphatics of the bladd.er, few in number and confined to the neighbourhood of the base of the organ (Curnow), enter the glands M M 2