POPLITEAL ARTERY. 477 to the fat at the front of the joint, and communicate with the other articular arteries. The upper and lower articular arteries of the popliteal, the anastomotic branch of the femoral, and the anterior tibial recurrent artery form, by their communications over the front of the knee, a superficial wide- meshed network of fine vessels between the fascia and skin, and a deeper and closer network of larger vessels, in contact with the bones, from which numerous offsets proceed to the interior of the joint. Fig. 282.—The deep anastomoses of the front of the Fig- 282. knee (from Tiedemann). 4 a, patellar surface of tlie femur ; b, posterior surface of the patella which, with the ligamentum patellse, has been turned down ; c, head of the fibula ; 1 and 2, branches of the anastomotic and superior internal articular arteries, ramifying on the bone and anastomosing with the superior external articular branch 3, and with other arteries within and below the joint ; 4, branches of the internal inferior articular ; 5, external inferior articular; 6, anterior tibial recurrent artery. Varieties.—Deviations from the ordinary condition of the popliteal artery are not frequent. The principal departure from the ordinary arrangement consists in the high division of the vessel into its terminal branches. Such an early division has been found to take place opposite the knee joint, or in the inter- condylar fossa of the femur, but not higher. In one case, observed by Portal, the artery was continued down to the middle of the leg before dividing. The popliteal artery has been seen occasionally dividing into anterior tibial and peroneal arteries—the posterior tibial being small or absent. In a single case, the popliteal artery was found by R. Quain dividing into three terminal branches, viz., the anterior and posterior tibial and the peroneal arteries. One instance is recorded in which the popliteal artery passed downwards internal to the origin of the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle, and then tinned out- wards between that and the internal condyle of the femur, to gain the popliteal space (T. P. A. Stuart, Journ. Anat., xiii., 162). In two or three cases the positions of the artery and vein have been found reversed. The artery is occasionally separated from the vein by an accessory slip of origin of the gastrocnemius muscle (p. 254). The azygos articular branch often arises from one of the other articular arteries, especially the superior external branch. There are sometimes several small middle articular branches. Two examples of a small saphenous artery, formed by the enlargement of the median superficial sural branch, and descend- ing with the short saphenous nerve and vein to the back of the external malleolus, have been met with. SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. The popliteal artery is very rarely tied, since, in cases of aneurism of the arteries of the upper part of the leg, ligature of the superficial femoral artery is both an easier and a more successful operation. The artery might, however, if necessary, be secured either in its upper or its lower part, but in the middle portion of its extent, while,contained within the popliteal space, tho artery is closely covered by the vein and nerve, as well as by the sural branches of the vessels and the external saphenous vein ; and moreover the principal branches are also