S5 THE CLAVICLE. above downwards, but in the extent of its inner curve it is more or less prismatic or cylindrical. In its description, four surfaces may be dis- tinguished, together with the two extremities. Fig. 67.—The right clavi- cle. (A. T.) ts A, from above ; B, from below. 1. sternal end; 2, acromial end ; 2', facet for articula- tion with the acromion ; 3, groove on the lower surface for the subclavius muscle ; 4, conoid tubercle and trapezoid line; 5, rough mark for the attachment of the costo-clavicular or rhomboid ligament of the deltoid muscle. Fig. 67. 6, impression of the pectoralis major; 7, that The superior surface is broadest in its outer part; it is principally sub- cutaneous, but near the inner extremity presents a slight roughness, marking the clavicular attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. The anterior surface opposite the outer curve is reduced to a mere rough border, from which the deltoid muscle takes origin, but in the inner half of its extent is broadened out into an uneven space more or less distinctly separated from the inferior surface, and giving attachment to the pecto- ralis major muscle. The posterior surface is broadest at the inner ex- tremity, and smooth in the whole extent of the internal curvature; but towards its outer extremity it forms a thick border which gives attach- ment to the trapezius muscle. About the middle of this surface is the aperture of a small canal for the medullary artery, directed outwards. On the inferior surface, at the sternal end, is a rough impression for the attachment of the costo-clavicular ligament; more externally is a groove, extending over the middle third of the bone, in which the subclavius muscle is inserted; beyond this, projecting on the posterior border at the junction of the middle and outer thirds, is a broad tubercle, conoid turbercle, to which the conoid division of the coraco-clavicular ligament is attached, and from which the rough, generally raised, trapezoid line, for the trapezoid part of the same ligament, is directed outwards and for- wards towards the end of the bone. The sternal end is the thickest part of the clavicle. It presents a somewhat triangular concavo-convex surface, with its most prominent angle directed downwards and backwards. The scapular end is broad and flat, and articulates by a small oval surface with the acromion. The interior of the clavicle contains coarse cancellated tissue in its whole extent. Towards the middle the spaces sometimes widen out, and unite so as to form an irregular medullary cavity. The clavicle is subcutaneous to a greater or less extent in its whole length ; the most prominent part is about the centre, corresponding to the intermuscular intervals, above between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, and below between the pectoralis major and deltoid (supra- and infraclavicular fossa’). The outer extremity is a little higher than the upper surface of the acromion against which it fits, and forms a prominence on the upper part of the shoulder.