PULMONARY ARTERY AND VEINS. 350 The sanguiferous system consists of two great divisions, comprehended in the lesser or pulmonic and the greater or systemic circulations. To the former belong the pulmonary artery and veins, which will be first described. PULMONARY ARTERY AND VEINS. PULMONARY ARTERY. The main pulmonary artery is a short wide vessel (diameter 30 mm., Henle), which carries the dark blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. It arises from the infundibulum of the right ventricle, and passes for the space of nearly two inches upwards, and at the same time backwards, to reach the concavity of the aortic arch, where it divides into two branches—the right and left pulmonary arteries. The mode of attachment of the main pulmonary artery to the base of the ventricle is noticed in the description of the heart. At each side of its commence- ment is the corresponding coronary artery springing from the aorta, and close to its sides are the two auricular appendages. It is at first in front of the aorta and conceals the origin of that vessel; but higher up, where it lies in front of the left auricle, it passes to the left side of the ascend- ing aorta, and is finally placed below the transverse part of the arch. The pulmonary artery and the aorta are united together by connective tissue and by the serous layer of the pericardium, which for the space of about an inch and a half forms a single tube surrounding both vessels. Rather to the left of its point of bifurcation it is connected to the under side of the aortic arch by means of a short fibrous cord, which passes obliquely upwards, backwards, and to the left. This is the remains of the ductus arteriosus, a large vessel peculiar to the foetus. The right pulmonary artery (21 mm.), longer and somewhat larger than the left, runs almost transversely to the right behind the ascending aorta and the superior vena cava into the root of the right lung, where it divides into two primary branches, the upper of which is distributed to the upper lobe of the lung, the lower to the middle and lower lobes. The left pulmonary artery (19 mm.), shorter than the right, passes horizontally in front of the descending aorta and left bronchus into the root of the left lung, also dividing into two branches for the upper and lower lobes of the left lung. In the root of the lung, the right and left pulmonary arteries both lie in front of the bronchus and behind the veins. On the right side the bronchus is highest and the veins lowest, while on the left side the bronchus sinks to a level between the artery and veins. The varieties of the pulmonary artery will be referred to along with those of the aorta. RULMONARY VEINS. The pulmonary veins are four short,, trunks which convey the red blood from the lungs to the left side of the heart, and which are found, two on each side, in the root of the corresponding lung. The two veins of the right side pass below the right pulmonary artery, and behind the superior vena cava and the right auricle, to enter the left auricle ; the upper vein receives one or more branches from the middle