TAESO-METATAESAL AETICULATIONS. 183 beyond the cuboid bone, the anterior surface of the tarsus is very irregular. The first metatarsal bone articulates with the internal cuneiform ; the second is wedged in between the first and third cunei- form, and rests against the second ; the third metatarsal bone articu- lates with the extremity of the external cuneiform ; and the last two with the cuboid bone, the fourth having also usually an articulation with the external cuneiform. The articulations are synovial joints, and the bones are held in contact by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal tarso-meiatarsal ligaments (fig. 152) are flat thin bands of parallel fibres, which pass from behind forwards, connecting the conti- guous extremities of the bones before-mentioned. Thus the first meta- tarsal bone receives a broad thin band from the corresponding cuneiform bone ; the second receives three, which converge to its upper surface, one passing from each cuneiform bone ; the third has one from the external cuneiform bone ; and, finally, the last two are bound by a fasciculus to each from the cuboid bone, and by fibres from the external cuneiform to the fourth metatarsal bone. The plantar ligaments are less regular ; the bands of the first and second toes are more strongly marked than the corresponding ligaments on the dorsal surface ; and those of the fourth and fifth toes, which are merely a few scattered fibres passing to the cuboid, receive support from the sheath of the peroneus longus tendon. Ligamentous bands stretch in an oblique or transverse direction from the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsal bones, and from the external cuneiform to the fifth metatarsal. The interosseous ligaments run forwards between the bones, and from their strength and deep position oppose great resistance to the knife in separating the metatarsus from the tarsus, a. The internal and largest of these extends from the outer side of the first cuneiform bone to the neighbouring side of the second metatarsal, close to the articular surface, b. The middle, which is the smallest, and is less constant than the others, passes from the external cuneiform to the outer side of the second metatarsal bone. c. The external connects the outer side of the external cuneiform to the same side of the third meta- tarsal bone, and separates the articular cavity of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones from the rest. Synovial cavities.—There are three synovial cavities in this irregular series of articulations, a. One is between the internal cuneiform and the first metatarsal bone ; the joint formed between these two bones is altogether separate and out of the range of the rest. b. A second synovial cavity is between the cuboid and the fourth and fifth meta- tarsal bones ; this is isolated on the inner side by the external inter- osseous ligament, c. The third or middle one is placed between the middle and external cuneiform and the second and third metatarsal bones, and is prolonged between the two last-named bones, as well as between the third and fourth metatarsal bones. This cavity generally communicates between the internal and middle cuneiform bones with that of the naviculo-cuneiform articulation. Intermetatarsal Articulations.—The metatarsal bones are oound together at their tarsal and digital ends ; very firmly in the former, and loosely in the latter situation. The tarsal ends of the four outer bones articulate with each other, having lateral cartilaginous surfaces, between which processes are sent