OCCIPITO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS. 143 between the transverse processes. In the lumbar region they are membranous, in the dorsal region they are rounded bundles intimately connected with the muscles of the back; and in the neck they are reduced to a few irregular fibres, which are often wanting. Movements.—The movements of flexion and extension of the vertebral column are freely allowed in the cervical and lumbar regions, but in the dorsal are limited by the small amount of intervertebral substance and the imbrication of the lamina3. The greatest bending backwards is permitted in the cervical, the greatest bending forwards in the lumbar region, especially between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. Movements in other directions are determined chiefly by the articular processes. In the dorsal region the articular surfaces of each vertebra lie in the arc of a circle whose centre is in front, between the bodies of the vertebra:, and round this centre a certain degree of rotation is permitted. In the lumbar region, the centre of the circle in which the articular surfaces lie is placed behind, so that rotation is prevented ; the articular processes, however, permit of lateral flexion, and by combination of this with antero-posterior flexion, some degree of circumduction is produced. The articular surfaces of the cervical vertebrse, being oblique and placed in nearly the same transverse plane, allow neither pure rotation nor pure lateral flexion. They permit, besides forward and backward motion, only one other, which is rotatory round an oblique axis—the inferior articulating process of one side gliding upwards and forwards on the opposing surface, and that of the other side gliding downwards and backwards, by which a combination of lateral flexion and rotation is obtained. ARTICULATIONS OP THE ATLAS, AXIS, AND OCCIPITAL BONE. The atlas, aids, ancl occipital bone are connected by synovial articula- tions and ligaments, without the presence of intervertebral discs. Two pairs of synovial articulations, surrounded by capsular liga- ments, connect the lateral masses of the atlas with the superior articular surfaces of the axis and with the condyles of the occipital bone. The atlanto-axial capsule is strengthened at the inner and posterior part by an accessory ligament, directed downwards and inwards to the body of the axis near the base of the odontoid process. The transverse ligament of the atlas is a strong and thick band, which extends across the ring of the atlas, and retains the odontoid pro- Fig. IIS.—Frontal section Fig. 118. OF THE LOWER PART OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE, AND THE TWO UPPER VERTE- BP..E, BEHIND THE ARTICU- LATIONS (A. T. after Arnold), h 1, 1, posterior occipito- axial ligament turned up in two layers ; 2, 2', vertical part, and 3, 3, transverse or principal part of tlie cruci- form ligament; x , over the ueck of the odontoid process; 4, 4, alar or lateral odontoid ligaments; 5, 5, accessory ligaments of the atlanto-axial capsules ; 6, C, part of the capsular ligaments of the condylar articulations ; 7, 7, capsular ligaments of the atlanto-axial articulations. ccss in its place. It is attached on each side to the tubercle below the inner border of the superior articular process. It is arched backwards