464 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. Large lymphatic glands are found resting upon the front and inner side of the artery ; and the spermatic (or ovarian) vessels, together with the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve, descend over it near its termination. Branches.—The external iliac artery supplies small twigs to the psoas muscle and the neighbouring lymphatic glands, and, close to its termi- nation, two branches of considerable size, viz., the epigastric and the circumflex iliac, which are distributed to the walls of the abdomen. 1. The deep epigastric artery (iv) (inferior epigastric) arises from the inner and fore part of the external iliac, usually a few lines above Poupart’s ligament. It is at first directed inwards for a short distance between Poupart’s ligament and the internal abdominal ring, and then ascends on the inner side of that aperture, being covered by the transver- salis fascia and resting on the peritoneum. As it turns round the internal abdominal ring, the artery is crossed on its outer side, in the male by the vas deferens and the spermatic vessels, which here meet to form the spermatic cord, in the female by the round ligament of the uterus. Continuing its course upwards, the vessel perforates the transversalis fascia and passes over the semilunar fold of Douglas to enter the sheath of the rectus, becoming closely applied to the back of that muscle. It finally divides, somewhat above the level of the umbilicus, into a number of branches which supply the rectus, and anastomose freely in the muscle with the abdominal branch of the internal mammary artery. The epigastric artery is accompanied by two veins, which unite into a single trunk before ending in the external iliac vein. Branches.—These are small but numerous. («) The cremasteric artery (vi) descends on the spermatic cord, and, be- sides supplying the cremaster muscle and other coverings of the cord, anastomoses with the spermatic and external pudic arteries. (5) The pubic branch (vi) ramifies behind the pubis, and communicates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, as well as with the pubic branch of the obturator artery. (c) Muscular branches, which arise mainly from the outer side of the epigastric artery, ramify in the broad muscles of the abdomen, and anastomose with branches of the circumflex iliac, lumbar, and lower intercostal arteries. (d) Superficial branches perforate the rectus muscle, and anastomose beneath the skin Avith branches of the superficial epigastric artery. 2. The deep circumflex iliac artery (v) arises from the outer side of the external iliac, generally a little below the origin of the epigastric artery. It runs upwards and outwards behind Poupart’s ligament, resting on the iliacus muscle, and being contained in a fibrous canal at the junction of the transversalis and iliac fasciae, as far as the anterior superior iliac spine. From this point the artery is continued backwards along the inner margin of the iliac crest, giving branches to the iliacus and lateral abdominal muscles, and ends by anastomosing with the iliac branch of the ilio-lumbar artery. Some small branches also pierce the muscles attached to the crest of the ilium and communicate with offsets of the gluteal artery. From the first part of the circumflex iliac artery branches are given to the ilio-psoas, and to the upper ends of the sartorius and tensor vaginae femoris muscles. One considerable branch, sometimes replaced however by two or three smaller ones, arises near the anterior superior spine, and ascends between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, supplying