701 INGUINAL HERNIA. The coverings of a direct hernia, taking them in the order in which they are successively applied to the protruded viscus, are the following :— Fig. 376.—A DIRECT INGUINAL HER- NIA ON THE LEFT SIDE, COVERED BY THE CONJOINED TENDON OP THE INTERNAL OBLIQUE AND TRANSVER- salis muscles (R. Quain). 1, aponeurosis of the external ob- lique ; 2, internal oblique turned up ; 3, transversalis muscle; 4, trans- versalis fascia ; 5, spermatic cord ; 6, the hernia. A small part of the epi- gastric artery is seen through an opening made in the transversalis fascia. The peritoneal sac and the subperitoneal tissue which adheres to it, the transversalis fascia, the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, and the spermatic fascia derived from the margin of the external abdominal ring, together with the super- ficial fascia and skin. With regard to the conjoined tendon this hernia may be covered by it, or may pass through an opening in its fibres. The spermatic cord is commonly placed behind the outer part of the Fig. 377. Fig. 377.—A SMALL OBLIQUE AND A DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA, ON THE RIGHT SIDE (R. Quain). 1, tendon of the external oblique turned down ; 2, internal oblique turned up ; 3, transversalis ; 4, on its tendon above a part of the epigastric artery, which has been ex- posed by dividing the transversalis fascia ; 5, the spermatic eord (its vessels separated) ; 6, a bubonocele ; 7, direct hernia, protruded at the conjoined tendon of the two deeper muscles, and covered by a prolongation of the transversalis fascia. hernia. The hernial sac is not, how- ever, in contact with the vessels of the cord, the investments given from the transversalis fascia to those vessels and to the hernia respectively being interposed. But the spot at which an internal inguinal hernia passes through the triangle of Hesselbach is subject to some variation, and there is a second form of internal hernia which differs somewhat in its course and connec- tions from the foregoing. When the anterior abdominal wall is viewed from within (fig. 375), the obliterated hypogastric artery is seen running upwards to the umbilicus, and raising the peritoneum in a well-marked fold which separates two hollows known as the external and internal