Ill THE FEMUR. Tlie average dimensions of the pelvis, as measured in a number of full-sized males and females, may be stated as follow, in inches :— Distance between tbe widest part of the crests of the ilia Distance between the anterior superior spines of the ilia Distance between the front of sym- physis pubis and the sacral spines True Pelvis. | Transverse diameter Oblique diameter Antero-posterior diameter Male. 10 to 11 9-1- — 10 0-1 — 7 Female. 101 to 11 10 — 10-|- C h — n Brim. Cavity. Outlet. Brim. Cavity. 4-! 4i 3-1 4" 31- 5 41 Outlet. 4| The human pelvis, compared with that of the lower animals, is characterised by its shallowness and breadth, and by the great capacity of the true pelvis ; by the expansion of the ilia, the length and sigmoid curve of their crests, the massiveness and straightness of the ischial tuberosities, and the shortness of the symphysis. Similar, although much slighter, variations in the form of the pelvis are to be recognized in the different races of mankind, the most important of which is in the relation of the antero-posterior to the transverse diameter, and is expressed by what is termed the pelvic index. This is measured at the pelvic brim ; the transverse diameter is taken as the standard = 100, and the proportion of the antero-posterior diameter to this gives the index. For this purpose the pelves of the two sexes must necessarily be grouped separately, the female having always a lower index than the male ; and the male is usually selected for com- parison. The following examples of the average pelvic index in the male of four races will show the range of variation : European (Flower) 81 Negro (Verneau) 89 Native Australian (Flower) 98 Andaman Islander (Flower) 101 THE FEMUR. The femur or thigh-bone, situated between the hip-bone and the tibia, is the largest and longest bone of the skeleton, its proportion exceeding one-fourth of the height of the whole body. In the erect position of the body it inclines inwards and slightly backwards as it descends, so as to approach interiorly its fellow of the opposite side, and to have its upper end a little in advance of the lower. It is divisible into a superior extremity, including the head and neck and two eminences called tro- chanters, the shaft, and an inferior extremity expanded into an external and an internal condyle. At the superior extremity of the bone, the neck extends inwards, up- wards, and slightly forwards, being set upon the shaft at an angle of about 125° or 180°. The neck is expanded from above down at its base, where it meets the shaft obliquely, but compressed from before back, so 'that the vertical diameter greatly exceeds the antero-posterior; the sum- mit becomes more rounded and is somewhat enlarged again as it joins