PELVIC PLEXUS. 665 PELVIC PLEXUS. The pelvic or inferior hypogastric plexuses, one on each side, are placed in the lower part of the pelvic cavity by the side of the rectum, and of the vagina in the female. The nerves, continued from the hypo- gastric plexus, enter into repeated communications as they descend, and form at the points of connection small knots, which contain a little ganglionic matter. After descending some way, they become united with branches of the spinal nerves, as well as with a few offsets of the sacral ganglia, and the union of all constitutes the pelvic plexus. The spinal branches which enter into the plexus are furnished from the third and fourth sacral nerves, occasionally also the second. Small ganglia are formed at the places of union of the spinal nerves, as well as else- where in the plexus (plexus gangliosus—Tiedemann). From the plexus so constituted, numerous nerves are distributed to the pelvic viscera. They correspond with the branches of the internal iliac artery, and vary with the sex ; thus, besides htemorrhoidal and vesical nerves, which are common to both sexes, there are nerves special to each :—namely, in the male for the prostate, vesicula seminalis, and vas deferens ; in the female, for the vagina, uterus, ovary, and Fallopian tube. The nerves distributed to the urinary bladder and the vagina contain a larger proportion of spinal nerves than those furnished to the other pelvic viscera. Hsemorrhoidal plexus.—These slender nerves proceed from the back part of the pelvic plexus. They join with the nerves (superior hfemor- rhoidal) which descend with the inferior mesenteric artery, and penetrate the coats of the rectum. Vesical plexus.—The nerves of the urinary bladder are very nu- merous. They are directed from the anterior part of the pelvic plexus to the side and lower part of the bladder. At first these nerves accompany the vesical blood-vessels, but afterwards they leave the vessels, and subdivide into minute branches before perforating the muscular coat of the organ. Secondary plexuses are given in the male to the vas deferens and the vesicula seminalis. The nerves of the vas deferens ramify round that tube, and communi- cate in the spermatic cord with the nerves of the spermatic plexus. Those furnished to the vesicula seminalis form an interlacement on the vesicula, and some branches penetrate its substance. Other filaments from the prostatic nerves reach the same structure. Prostatic plexus.-—The nerves of this plexus are of considerable size, and pass onwards between the prostate gland and the levator ani. Some are furnished to the prostate and to the vesicula seminalis ; and the plexus is then continued forwards to supply the erectile substance of the penis, where its nerves are named cavernous. Cavernous nerves of the penis.—These are very slender, and difficult to dissect. Continuing from the prostatic plexus, they pass onwards beneath the arch of the pubis, and through the muscular structure connected with the membranous part of the urethra, to the dorsum of the penis. At the root of the latter, the cavernous nerves are joined by some short filaments from the pudic nerve. Having distributed twigs to the fore part of the prostate and the membranous part of the urethra, these nerves divide into branches for the erectile substance of the penis, as follows : —