ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 368 ramifies in the sterno-mastoid and the muscles attached to the thyroid cartilage, as well as in the platysma and neighbouring integument. The position of this branch with respect to the carotid artery is the only circumstance which gives it interest. (c) The laryngeal branch, or superior laryngeal artery (v), proceeding inwards in company with the superior laryngeal nerve, and piercing the thyro-byoid membrane. Before entering the larynx this branch is covered by the thyro-hyoid muscle. On reaching the interior of the larynx, it ramifies in the small muscles, the glands, and the mucous membrane of that organ. id) The crico-thyroid (vi), a small branch to be noticed on account of its position rather than its size. It crosses the membrane connecting the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and communicates with a similar branch from the other side : hence it may be a source of haemorrhage in the operation of lnryngotomy. Varieties.—Size.—The superior thyroid artery is frequently larger or smaller than usual. In either case the deviation from the accustomed size is accompanied by an opposite alteration in other thyroid arteries. It has been seen extremely small, ending in branches to the sterno-mastoid muscle and the larynx : total absence on one side has also been recorded. (See the observations on the inferior thyroid artery.) Origin.-—The superior thyroid is often transferred to the upper part of the common carotid artery ; and it is occasionally conjoined with the lingual branch, or with that and the facial branch of the external carotid. There are sometimes two superior thyroid arteries. Branches.—The hyoid branch is frequently very small, or absent. The laryn- geal branch often arises directly from the external carotid artery, rarely from the common carotid. Examples have occurred of this branch being of very large size, and terminating in the thyroid body. The laryngeal artery occasionally enters the larynx through a foramen in the thyroid cartilage, and it has also been observed to pass inwards below the cartilage. The crico-thyroid artery is sometimes of considerable size. 2. Lingual artery (iv).—The lingual artery (fig. 237, p. 376) arises from the fore part of the external carotid, between the superior thyroid and facial arteries, and generally opposite the great cornu of the hyoid bone. From its origin it first ascends for a short distance, and then bends sharply downwards, forming a loop which is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve. Disappearing beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, it is continued forwards along the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and under cover of the hyo-glossus, to near the anterior border of that muscle ; it there ascends almost perpen- dicularly to the under surface of the tongue, along which it is continued forwards to the tip, receiving the name of the ranine artery. The lingual artery lies upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx and the genio-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve, which courses forwards on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus, is placed above the level of the artery, except at the anterior border of the muscle, where the artery ascends and issues above the position of the nerve. Branches.—(a) The hyoid branch runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone, and supplies the contiguous muscles and skin, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. (b) The dorsal artery of the tongue, which is often replaced by several smaller offsets. This arises from the deep portion of the lingual artery,