MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 305 IV.—MUSCLES A~N"D FASCIiE OF THE TRUNK. The muscles passing between the trunk and the upper limb having been already described, those which belong exclusively to the trunk itself will now be treated of under the three heads of, 1. Dorsal muscles ; 2. Thoracic muscles, including the diaphragm; and 3. Abdominal and Perineal muscles. DORSAL MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. The muscles to be described under the above head, taken as a whole, occupy the hollow between the line of vertebral spines and the prominences formed by the mastoid process, the cervical transverse processes, the most projecting parts of the ribs, and the crest of the ilium, and they extend from the superior curved line of the occipital bone to the lower part of the sacrum. Some of them are small and are limited to certain parts of the extensive region now referred to; others extend, either con- tinuously or by the serial repetition of similar short fasciculi, throughout the greater part of it. They may be arranged for purposes of description, according to the order in which they occur, in the following groups, viz., a, the posterior serrati muscles ; h, the splenius ; c, the erector spinre ; d, the complex* and transverso-spinales ; e, the interspinales and intertransversales; /, the short cranio-vertebral muscles. Of these muscles the serrati act solely on the ribs and are closely related to the thoracic muscles, although from them position they are most conveniently described in this place. The remainder act on the spinal column and head, and considered with regard to the direction of their fibres fall into three main divisions. In the first division (splenius) the muscular fibres are directed obliquely upwards and outwards, or from spinous to transverse processes ; in the second (transverso-spinales and complex*) the fibres pass obliquely upwards and inwards or from transverse to spinous pro- cesses ; in the third the fibres run longitudinally between corresponding parts of the vertebrae, being either of considerable length and passing over several segments (erector spin*), or short and attached to adjacent verte- brae (interspinales and intertransversales). The short cranio-vertebral muscles may be regarded as presenting examples of each of these divisions. Serrati muscles.—The serratus posticus superior is a thin flat muscle which is covered, excepting at its upper border, by the rhomboid and levator anguli scapulae muscles. It arises from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchae, from the spines of the last cervical and two or three upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the supraspinous ligament, by a thin aponeurotic tendon forming nearly half of the length of the muscle. The fibres are directed obliquely downwards and outwards, and form four fleshy digitations which are inserted by tendinous extremities into the upper borders and outer surfaces of the second, third, fourth and fifth ribs, a little beyond their angles. Varieties.— The slips are sometimes only three in number ; or less frequently there are five or even six (Henle). In very rare cases absence of the muscle has been observed (Macalister, Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., 1S66). The serratus posticus inferior (fig. 157, p. 195), broader and stronger than the superior, arises from the spines of the lower two dorsal VOL. I. X