BONES OF THE HEAD. 32 SURFACE. (A. T.) J III.—THE BONES OP THE HEAD. The skull, comprising the bones of the head, is of a spheroidal figure, compressed on the sides, broader behind than before, and supported on the vertebral column. All its bones, with the exception of the lower jaw, are immoveably united together by lines and narrow surfaces, more or less uneven, termed sutures. The skull is divided by anatomists into two parts, the cranium and the face. The cranium protects the brain ; the face surrounds the mouth and nasal passages, and completes with the cranium the orbits or cavities for the eyes. The cranium is composed of eight bones, viz.: the occipital, two 'parietal, the frontal, two temporal, the sphenoid, and the ethmoid. The face is composed of fourteen bones, of which twelve are in pairs, viz. : the superior maxillary, malar, nasal, palate, lachrymal, and inferior turbinate bones; and two single, viz.: the vomer, and the inferior maxilla. The hyoid bone, suspended by ligaments from the under surface of the cranium, may also be classed with the bones of the head. THE OCCIPITAL BONE. The occipital bone is situated at the lower and back part of the cranium. In general form it is rhomboidal, and through its lower and anterior part passes a large oval aperture, foramen magnum, forming the communication between the cranium and spinal canal. The portion of 1, basilar process ; 2, con- dylar portion, the probe marks the anterior condylar foramen; 3, jugular process ; 4, lateral angle ; 5, superior angle ; 6, superior curved line ; 7, ex- ternal occipital protuberance; 7, 8, external occipital crest; 9, 10, inferior curved line ; 11, foramen magnum; 12, con- dyle, immediately above it the posterior condylar foramen. the bone behind the for- amen is tabular, the nar- rower part in front forms a thick mass named basilar process, and the parts on the sides of the i foramen, bearing the condyles or articulating processes by which the head is supported on the atlas, are the condylar portions. The two superior borders are deeply serrated, and are articulated with the parietal bones in the lambdoid suture. By its two inferior borders, which are uneven but not deeply serrated, it articulates with the mastoid Fig. 27. 5 Fig. 27. —Occipital bone FROM BELOW AND BEHIND, SHOWING THE EXTERNAL