Fig. 32S. GLOSSO-PHAEYNGEAL A’EIiVE. 577 THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE, The glosso-pharyngeal nerve One filament unites the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve with the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; _ a second passes to the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric; and a third, which however is not constant, joins the ganglion of the root of the pneumo- gastric nerve. Fig. 328.—The tympanic branch op and its connections (from Brescliet). A, squamous part of the left tem- poral bone : B, petrous part; C, in- ferior maxillary nerve ; D, internal carotid artery ; a, tensor tympani muscle; 1, sympathetic plexus ; 2, otic ganglion ; 3, glosso-pharyngeal nerve; 4, tympanic nerve; 5, 5, twigs joining the sympathetic ; 6, twig to fenestra rotunda; 7, twig to fenestra ovalis ; 8, junction with the facial nerve ; 9. small super- ficial petrosal nerve ; 10, twig from the otic ganglion to the tensor tym- pani muscle ; 11, facial nerve ; 12, chorda tympani; 13, petrous gang- lion of the glosso-pharyngeal; 14, small deep petrosal nerve. is also joined below the petrous ganglion, in many cases, by a communicating branch from the facial nerve (p. 573). The tympanic branch (nerve oi Jacobson) ascends from the petrous ganglion through a small canal, the orifice of which is seen on the ridge of bone between the jugular fossa and the carotid foramen. Having gained the inner wall of the tympanum, the nerve runs upwards and forwards in a groove on the surface of the promontory, and, after giving (or receiving) several branches, leaves the cavity at its upper and fore part, where it becomes the small superficial petrosal nerve. The latter traverses a small canal, which crosses beneath the upper end of the canal of the tensor tympani muscle, and emerges on the upper surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, immediately external to the hiatus Fallopii. Then inclining downwards, the nerve passes from the skull through the fissure between the petrous and the great wing of the sphenoid, or occasionally through a small aperture in the latter bone, and terminates in the otic ganglion. As it lies in its canal, the small superficial petrosal nerve is joined by a filament of communication from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve, or from the large superficial petrosal nerve close to that ganglion. The branches of the tympanic nerve are partly distributed to the mucous lining of the middle ear, and partly form communications with other nerves, giving rise to what is called the tympanic plexus. Of the former set, the principal branches are, one directed forwards to the Eustachian tube, and two backwards to the neighbourhood of the fenestra rotunda and fenestra ovalis, and to the mastoid cells. The communicating branches are, in addition to the small superficial petrosal VOL. i. p p