SPHENOID DONE. 45 of two plates united in front and diverging behind, so as to enclose between them the pterygoid fossa. The external pterygoid plate, broader than the internal, lies in a plane extending backwards and outwards ; its outer surface bounds the zygomatic fossa, and is impressed by the external pterygoid muscle. The internal pterygoid plate is longer and narrower than the external, and is prolonged into the slender hook-like or fiamular process, round which in a groove plays the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. At its base, the internal plate turns inwards beneath the body, from which its extremity remains distinct as a slightly raised edge, known as the vaginal process, which articulates with the everted margin of the vomer ; externally to this it is marked by a small groove, which contributes with the palate bone to form the pterygo-pala- tine canal. The interval between the lower ends of the pterygoid plates, pterygoid notch, is occupied by the pyramidal process of the palate bone. At the base of the internal pterygoid plate is a slight depression, the navicular fossa, which gives attachment to the tensor palati muscle. Fissures and foramina.—Each lateral half of the bone presents a fissure, four foramina, and a canal. The sphenoidal fissure is the obliquely placed elongated interval between the great and the small wing, closed externally by the frontal bone ; it opens into the orbit, and transmits the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Above and to the inside of it is the opitic foramen, which is inclined outwards and forwards from the side of the olivary eminence, pierces the base of the small wing, and transmits the optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery. The foramen rotundum is directed forwards through the great wing, below the sphe- noidal fissure ; it opens immediately below the level of the orbit, and transmits the superior maxillary nerve. The foramen ovale is large, placed behind and a little external to the foramen rotundum, near the posterior margin of the great wing; it is directed downwards, and transmits the inferior maxillary nerve. The foramen spinosum is a small foramen piercing the great wing, near its posterior angle, and transmits the middle meningeal vessels. The Vidian or pterygoid canal, passes through the bone horizontally from before backwards at the base of the internal pterygoid plate ; it opens anteriorly into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and posteriorly into the foramen lacerum, and transmits the Vidian nerve and vessels. Varieties.—A small tubercle is often seen on each side in front of the pituitary- fossa, at the base of the olivary eminence, and immediately internal to the last part of the carotid groove ; this is known as the middle clinoid process, and is sometimes connected by a spiculum of bone to the anterior clinoid process. Less frequently the anterior and posterior clinoid processes are similarly united. The outer pterygoid plate may be connected by a bridge of bone or of ligament with the spinous process. The foramen ovale and foramen spinosum are frequently in- complete at the posterior margin of the bone. THE ETHMOID BONE. The ethmoid, or sieve-like bone, projects downwards from between the orbital plates of the frontal bone, and enters into the formation of the cranium, the orbits, and the nasal fossae. It is of a cuboid figure. It is exceedingly light for its size, being composed of very thin plates of bone forming in part irregular cells. It consists of a central vertical plate, and of two lateral masses, united at their superior extremities by