558 CRANIAL NERVES. The ophthalmic, ciliary, or lenticular ganglion serves as a centre for the supply of nerves—motor, sensory, and sympathetic—to the eye- ball. It is a small reddish body, compressed laterally and somewhat four-sided, and measures about a line from before back. It is situated at the back of the orbit, between the outer rectus muscle and the optic nerve, and generally in contact with the ophthalmic artery ; it is joined behind by branches from the fifth, the third, and the sympathetic nerves ; while from its fore part proceed the short ciliary nerves to the eyeball. Fig. 318.—Nerves of the or- bit FROM THE OUTER SIDE (from Sappey, after Hirsclifeld and Leveill^). f The external rectus muscle lias been divided and turned down : 1, optic nerve ; 2, trunk of the third nerve ; 3, its upper division passing into the levator palpebrie and superior rectus ; 4, its long lower branch to the inferior oblique muscle ; 5, the sixth nerve -joined by twigs from the sympathetic ; 6, Gasserian gang- lion ; 7, ophthalmic nerve ; 8, its nasal branch; 9, ophthalmic gang- lion ; 10, its short, 11, its long, and 12, its sympathetic root; 13, short ciliary nerves ; 14, supraorbital nerve. Union of the ganglion with nerves : its roots.—The posterior border of the ganglion receives three nerves. One of these, the long or sensory root, a slender filament from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic trunk, joins the upper part of this border. Another branch, the short or motor root, much thicker and shorter than the preceding, and sometimes divided into two parts, is derived from the branch of the third nerve to the inferior oblique muscle, and is connected with the lower part of the ganglion. The middle or sympathetic root is a very small nerve which emanates from the cavernous plexus of the symjiathetic, and reaches the ganglion close to the long upper root: these two nerves are frequently conjoined before reaching the ganglion. The ganglion is sometimes very small, probably from the nerve cells being distributed along the nerves which are connected with it. Branches of the ganglion.—From the fore part of the ganglion arise six or eight short ciliary nerves, which undergo division as they pass forwards, so that they form from twelve to twenty fine filaments as they reach the eyeball. They are disposed in two bundles, springing from the upper and lower angles of the ganglion, and being placed, the one set above, the other below the optic nerve. The lower set is the more numerous, and is accompanied by the long ciliary nerves (from the nasal), with which one or more of these branches are joined. Having entered the eyeball by apertures in the back part of the sclerotic coat, the nerves are lodged in grooves on its inner surface, and are finally distributed to the ciliary muscle, the iris aud the cornea (see the anatomy of the eye in Yol. II.). Varieties.—Additional roots to the ophthalmic ganglion have been observed by many anatomists, derived from the upper division of the third nerve, from