SEMIMEMBRANOSUS MUSCLE. 239 three-fourths of the length of the thigh ; from it spring numerous short fleshy fibres which are directed obliquely downwards and inwards, forming a thick fusiform belly, and terminate upon the tendon of insertion on the Fig. 178. Fig. 178.—Deep muscles op the right dip AND THIGH, FROM BEHIND. (A. T.) £ a, anterior, a', posterior superior spine of the ilium ; b\ posterior inferior spine ; c, c, great and small trochanters ; d, symphisis pubis; e, ischial tuberosity ; f, popliteal surface of femur; ff, head of fibula; 1, gluteus minimus ; 2, ob- turator internus : the gemelli have been re- moved ; 3, obturator externus ; 4, small part of the back of the pectineus and adductor brevis ; 5, origin of the adductor magnus from the lower part of the ischial tuberosity ; 5', 5', line of in- sertion of this muscle on the shaft of the femur, in which are seen three arched tendinous inter- vals for the passage of the perforating vessels ; 5", tendon of insertion into the adductor tu- bercle ; between the lower 5' and 5", the interval through which the femoral vessels pass into the popliteal space ; the upper 5' is placed upon the cut end of the quadratus femoris ; 6, vastus ex- ternus ; 7, vastus internus ; 8, femoral head of the biceps; 8', its ischial head, cut short; 9, plantaris muscle: at its upper end the outer head of the gastrocnemius; the figure 5", is upon the cut inner head ; 10, popliteus ; 11, tendon of the semimembranosus ; 12, upper part of the soleus. •opposite border of the muscle. The lower tendon makes its appearance about the middle of the thigh, becomes free from muscular fibres at the level of the knee, and, turning somewhat forwards, is inserted mainly into the lower part of the horizontal groove on the back of the inner tuberosity of the tibia. One considerable expansion is sent upwards and outwards to the pos- terior ligament of the knee-joint (see p. 173), another is continued down- wards to the fascia covering the popli- teus muscle, and a few fibres join the internal lateral ligament of the joint. Relations.—At its upper part the semi- membranosus crosses obliquely from without inwards beneath the conjoined biceps and semitendinosus, and the latter muscle lies upon it in its whole length. Its deep sur- face rests upon the adductor magnus, and the great sciatic nerve lies along its outer border. Between the lower tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a large bursa which generally communicates with the cavity of the knee-joint, and a second smaller one separates the main portion of the tendon from the promi- nent upper margin of the groove on the tibia.