OSSIFICATION OF THE VERTEBR2E. 21 from a separate centre. Most of tlie anterior divisions of the cervical transverse processes are ossified by the extension into them of osseous substance from the neighbouring- posterior part of the process and from the arch ; but those of the seventh usually present a separate osseous nucleus, and small nuclei have also been observed by Meckel in those of the second, fifth, and sixth vertebra. The Atlas and Axis.—The ossification of the atlas and axis differs consider- ably from that of the other vertebra. In the atlas, the body being absent, the anterior arch is formed by a strip of cartilage in which ossification, commencing Fig. 18.—Ossification of the atlas. (R. Quain.) A, before birth ; 1 & 2, lateral centres of ossification ; the anterior arch is carti- laginous. B, in the first year ; 1 & 2, as before ; 3, ossific centre in the anterior arch. by one or two centres, only appears in the course of the first year after birth. The neural arch, together with the processes, is formed from two lateral centres corresponding with those of the other vertebrae, and which begin to ossify about the 7th week. Their union posteriorly occurs in the 3rd year, and is frequently preceded by the formation of a distinct spinal nucleus. Their union with the nucleus of the anterior arch does non take place till the 5th or 6th year. In the axis the arch and processes are formed .from two centres corresponding to those of the other vertebrae, and appearing about the 7th or 8th week. Ossifi- cation begins in the body about the 4th month, from one or sometimes two centres, Fig. 19.—Ossification crP the axis as SEEN IN FRONT. (R. QUAIN.) A, from a foetus of seven months ; 3, the centre for the body ; 4 & 5, two centres for the base of the odontoid process. B, shortly after birth; 1 & 2 the lateral centres ; 3, centre for the body ; 6, tlie two centres for the odontoid process now united. occupying the lower part of the common cartilage of the body and odontoid process. In the upper part of this cartilage, a little later, two collateral centres appear for the odontoid process ; these soon unite into one, and become ossified to the body of the axis in the 3rd year. There is also a distinct centre in the apex of the process appearing in the 2nd year. The separate ossification of the odon- toid process is important in connection with the view that it is the displaced body of the atlas. Sacral Vertebrae.—Each of the sacral vertebral presents three primary centres of ossification, one in the body and a pair in the arch. The centres of the bodies of the first three vertebrae appear about the 8th or 9th week, those of the two foUowing vertebrae somewhat later. The laminae begin to ossify about the 6th month, but the time of union with the bodies differs in the different vertebrae ; taking place as early as the 2nd year in the lowest, but not till the 5th or 6th year in the uppermost. In each of the first three vertebrae (sometimes however only in two, sometimes in four) the anterior part of the lateral mass on each side is formed from an additional nucleus which appears at the outer margin of the anterior sacral foramen from the 6th to the 8th month. These unite to the bodies later than the arches. In the case of the two lower vertebras, the lateral masses are formed by extension of ossification from the primary lateral nuclei. On the body of each vertebra, epiphysial plates are formed after puberty, as in other