399 INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. tion of the superficial cervical artery, while the other forms the posterior scapular. The transverse cervical artery is sometimes derived directly from the subclavian, beneath or even beyond the scalenus anticus muscle. The? transverse or super- ficial cervical sometimes gives off the ascending cervical artery. When the superficial cervical is separated from the posterior scapular, it some- times arises from other sources than the thyroid axis, as from the suprascapular or the subclavian artery. Fig. 245.—Dissection of the anterior THORACIC AND ABDOMINAL WALL, TO SHOW THE ANASTOMOSES OF THE INTERNAL MAMMARY, INTERCOSTAL, AND EPIGASTRIC arteries (slightly altered from Tiede- mann). (A.T.) | The fore part of the serratus magnus, the external and internal oblique, and the rectus abdominis muscles have been re- moved ; 1, upon the subclavius muscle, points to the first part of the axillary artery, giving rise to the acromio-thoracic artery, which is cut short ; 2, upon the pectoralis minor, points to the lower part of the ax- illary artery and vein ; 3, long thoracic artery ; 4, on the cartilage of the first rib, the upper part of the internal mammary artery; 4', the lower part of the same artery, giving its abdominal branch behind the cartilage of the seventh rib ; 5, in the fourth intercostal space, the anastomosis of the internal mammary and intercostal arteries ; 6, perforating branches of the internal mammary artery sending offsets over the front of the sternum ; 7, on the transversalis muscle immediately above the internal abdominal ring, points to the last part of the external iliac artery, from which are seen rising, 8, the deep epigastric artery, and 9, the deep circumflex iliac ; 10, the anastomosis of the epigastric with the ab- dominal branch of the internal mammary artery; 11, spermatic cord and cremasteric twig of the epigastric artery ; 12, femoral artery ; 13, femoral vein ; 14, a lymphatic gland closing the crural ring. 3. Internal mammary ar- tery (iv).—The internal mammary artery, remarkable for its length and the number of its branches, arises from the lower and fore part of the subclavian, opposite the thyroid axis. It runs at first for- wards and downwards, as well as slightly inwards, to the hinder surface of the cartilage of the first rib, lying between this and the sac of the pleura; from this point it descends vertically behind the costal cartilages, about half an inch Fig. 245. from the border of the sternum, as