80 BOXES OF THE HEAD. III. Race Differences, their Measurement and Classification, Cranio- metry.—The determination and measurement of the differences in form presented by the skull in the various races of mankind have in recent years engaged the attention of many anatomists in this and other countries, and a system of craniometry has been developed, by means of which the nature and degree of these differences can be precisely stated and formulated. This system is in its principles now generally followed, but there is still much difference of opinion as to many of the details, especially as to the best modes of taking several of the measurements, and a greater uniformity amongst observers in this respect is much to be desired. In the brief sketch here given the methods of measure- ment and classification recommended are those used by Professor Flower, as explained by him in the Hunterian Lectures during the years 1877 to 1880, and published in the “ Catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons,” part i., 1879, from which also most of the examples cited have been taken ; the measurements of the Andamanese skulls are from a separate memoir by the same author in the “Journal of the Anthropological Institute,” 1879. For further information the reader is referred to Topinard, “ Anthropologie,” Paris, 1876, and especially Broca “ Instructions craniologiques et craniometriques,” Paris, 1875. The first place in importance is necessarily occupied by the capacity of the cranium, as affording the most convenient indication of the development of the brain. This is ascertained by filling the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum, the other apertures having previously been stopped, with some small- grained substance, mustard seed has been found to give the most accurate and constant results, and then measuring the quantity contained in a properly graduated vessel, precautions being taken to ensure an equal pressure in both operations. The capacity of the normal human cranium varies from 1000 to 1800 cubic centimeters (about 60 to 110 cubic inches), with an average in all races of 1400 cubic centimeters (85 cubic inches). Skulls with a capacity of from 1350 to 1450 cubic centimeters are placed in a middle group and termed mesocephalic, those exceeding 1450 cubic centimeters in capacity are megacephalic, and those below 1350 cubic centimeters are microcephalia The following examples are of males only ; the figures in brackets after the names indicate the number of skulls examined, and of which the average is taken. Cranial Capacity. Cub. centim. Cub. inches. Eskimo (17) ..... . . 1546 94-3 English (24, mostly of lowest class) 1511 92-2 Chinese (16) ..... . . 1424 86-9 African Xegroes (26) . 1388 84-7 Xative Australians (32) . . . 1298 79-2 Andaman Islanders (11) 1244 75-9 Before proceeding to the consideration of the linear measurements it is necessary to refer to certain definite points on the surface of the skull from which such measurements are taken, or which have a particular importance as presenting varieties of more or less frequent occurrence, and to which special names have been given, for the most part by Broca, not of ordinary use in descriptive anatomy. The most important of these are :— Alveolar point (fig. 66, A).—The centre of the anterior margin of the upper alveolar arch. Subnasal or spinal point (S).—The middle of the inferior border of the anterior nasal aperture at the base of the nasal spine. Nasion or nasal point (X).—The middle of the naso-frontal suture. Opliryon or supraorbital point (Op).—The middle of the supraorbital line, which, drawn across the narrowest part of the forehead, separates the face from the cranium. Bregma (Bg).—The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures. Obclion (Ob).—The region situated between the two parietal foramina where the sagittal suture is more simple than elsewhere, and where its closure generally commences. Lambda (L).—The point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures.