698 ANATOMY OF THE GROIN. The coverings given from the constituent parts of the abdominal wall to the spermatic cord, besides the integuments, are, from the external ring, a prolongation of the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia ; the cremasteric muscle and fascia from the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, and a thin, funnel-shaped prolongation of the transver- salis fascia from the edge of the inner ring (infundibuliform fascia). Beneath the last, the areolar tissue uniting together the constituents of the cord is continuous with the subperitoneal areolar layer. Varieties of inguinal hernia.—Two principal forms of inguinal hernia are described, which are distinguished according to the part of the Fig. 373.—The inguinal canal and femoral sheath fully exposed. (R. Quain.) § The lower part of the external oblique has been removed (with the exception of Poupart’s ligament), a portion of the internal oblique raised, and the transversalis muscle and fascia brought into view. The femoral artery and vein are seen to a small extent, the fascia lata having been turned aside and the sheath of blood-vessels laid open. 1, external oblique muscle; 2, internal oblique ; 2', part of same turned up ; 3, transversalis muscle ; upon the last-named muscle is seen a branch of the circumflex iliac artery, with its companion veins ; 4, transversalis fascia ; 5, spermatic cord covered by the in- fundibuliform fascia ; 6, upper angle of the iliac part of the fascia lata ; 7, femoral sheath; 8, femoral artery ; 9, femoral vein ; 10, saphenous vein ; 11, a vein joining it. canal which they first enter, as well as by the position which they bear with respect to the epigastric artery. Thus, when the hernia takes the course of the inguinal canal from its commencement, it is named oblique, because of the direction of the canal, or external, from the position which its neck bears with respect to the epigastric artery. On the other hand, when the protruded part, without following the length of the canal, passes at once through its posterior wall at a point opposite the