315 INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES. muscles with which they are continuous externally, and covering the fore parts of the internal intercostals. Variety.—The siqwacostalis (Wood) is a muscular slip occasionally seen, passing from the anterior end of the first rib downwards to the fourth, sometimes also to the second and third ribs. It has been found connected above with the deep fascia of the neck, or with the scaleni muscles. The internal intercostal muscles consist of fibres which incline downwards and backwards, but are somewhat shorter and less oblique than those of the external muscles. Their attachments take place on the inner surfaces of the ribs, the upper one [being situated immediately above the subcostal groove, the lower one near the upper margin of the bone. Anteriorly they reach to the sternal ends of the costal cartilages, and in the last two spaces they become continuous with the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen : posteriorly they extend as far as, or sometimes, especially in the upper spaces, slightly beyond the angles of the ribs. Where the internal intercostals are deficient behind the inner surface of each external intercostal is lined by the posterior intercostal aponeurosis, a membranous layer which is continuous internally with the superior costo-transverse ligament, and externally is prolonged into a thin fascia between the two intercostal muscles. Relations.—The internal are separated from the external intercostal muscles at the back of the spaces by the intercostal vessels and nerves ; they are lined internally by the pleura. The levatores costarum, twelve on each side, arise from the tips of the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and eleven highest dorsal vertebrae. Corresponding in direction with the external intercostal muscles, into which they are continued at their outer borders, they pass downwards and outwards, spreading as they descend, and each is in- serted into the outer surface of the rib belonging to the vertebra below that from wdiich it springs, between the tubercle and angle. The levator muscles belonging to the lower ribs present some longer additional fibres which, passing over a rib, are inserted into the next one below; these fibres are sometimes distinguished as levatores costarum longiores. Relations—The levatores costarum lie in series superiorly with the middle and posterior scaleni, and interiorly with the lateral lumbar intertransverse muscles. The subcostal muscles (fig. 212, 10) are small, very variable bundles lying on the inner aspect of the thoracic wall, in close connection with the internal intercostals, and chiefly in the neighbourhood of the angles of the ribs. They follow the same direction as the internal intercostal muscles, but their fibres extend over one or two intercostal spaces. They are most constant on the lower ribs. The triangularis sterni, a thin stratum of muscular and tendinous fibres placed within the thorax, behind the costal cartilages, arises from the deep surface of the ensiform process and lower part of the body of the sternum, and from the cartilages of two or three of the lower sternal ribs. Its fibres pass outwards and upwards in a diverging manner, the lowest being horizontal, the middle oblique, and the upper becoming more and more nearly vertical; they are inserted by separate slips into the outer parts of the cartilages of the ribs, sometimes also into the