ULNAR ARTERY. 419 profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis muscles. It continues its course directly downwards as far as the upper border of the pronator quadratus muscle, then pierces the interosseous membrane, and descends to the back of the carpus. It gives off the following branches :— (a) The median artery, a long slender branch, which accompanies the median nerve and sends offsets into its substance, and to the flexor sublimis digitorum. This artery is sometimes much enlarged, and assists in supplying the hand as will be hereafter noticed. (If) Muscular branches to the flexor profundus, flexor longus pollicis, and pronator quadratus muscles, and others which perforate the inter- osseous membrane to supply tire extensors of the thumb. (c) The medullary arteries of the radius and ulna, which enter the foramina in those bones to be distributed in their interior. (d) An anterior communicating branch, given off before the artery pierces the interosseous membrane, and descending beneath the pronator quadratus muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. (e) Terminal twigs anastomosing with the posterior carpal arteries. The posterior interosseous artery, passing backwards through the interval between the oblique ligament and the upper border of the inter- osseous membrane, appears on the back of the forearm between the supinator brevis and extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscles, and gives off here its recurrent branch. Continuing its course downwards between the superficial and deep layers of extensor muscles, to both of which it distributes branches, it reaches the back of the wrist much diminished in size, and ends by anastomosing with the anterior interosseous and posterior carpal arteries. The posterior interosseous recurrent artery passes directly upwards, covered by the anconeus, to reach the interval between the olecranon and external condyle, where it divides into several offsets which anas- tomose with the superior profunda, the posterior ulnar recurrent and the radial recurrent arteries. 4. The posterior ulnar carpal branch, of variable size, arises a little above the pisiform bone, and winds back under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to gain the dorsal surface of the carpus. It gives a small metacarpal branch (sometimes derived separately from the ulnar) which runs along the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and then passing transversely outwards beneath the extensor tendons anastomoses with the posterior carpal branch of the radial artery, so as to form the posterior carpal arch. From this arch are derived the second and third dorsal interosseous arteries, which descend over the spaces between the third and fourth and the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, and are reinforced at the upper ends of those spaces by the junction of the superior per- forating branches of the deep palmar arch. 5. The anterior ulnar carpal branch is a very small artery, which runs on the anterior surface of the carpus beneath the flexor profundus, anastomoses with a similar offset from the radial artery, and supplies the carpal bones and articulations. Varieties.—Origin.—In the whole number of cases observed by R. Quain, the ulnar artery was found to deviate from its usual mode of origin, nearly in the proportion of one in thirteen. The brachial artery was, more frequently than the axillary, the source from which it sprang ; and the lower part of the brachial more frequently than the upper. In one case of high origin of the ulnar artery the vessel was connected with the brachial opposite the elbow-joint by means of E e 2