320 MUSCLES OF TILE THOEAX. lower margin of tlie thorax, are for a considerable extent placed close to the ribs, the lungs, especially in their collapsed condition, not descending so far as the attachments of the diaphragm. The vault of the diaphragm rises higher on the right than on the left side. In the dead body it rises on the right side to the level of the junction of the fifth rib with the sternum, and on the left side only as high as the sixth. This difference is connected with the great size and firm- ness of the liver on the right side. It is covered superiorly by the pleuree and the pericardium ; the fibrous layer of the latter membrane blending with the tendinous centre, as well as with the fascia covering its muscular substance. The lower surface, of a deeply concave form, is lined by the peritoneum, and has in apposition with it the liver, the stomach, the pancreas and spleen, and the kidneys. Varieties.—The sternal portion of the muscle is not unfrequently wanting. As a very rare occurence a fleshy fasciculus has been seen passing from the upper surface of the diaphragm to the wall of the oesophagus (Haller, Cruveilhier). Nerves.—The intercostals, levatores costarum, subcostals, and triangularis sterni are supplied by the intercostal nerves. The diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, and likewise by sympa- thetic filaments from the plexuses round the phrenic arteries. Actions.—Movements of Respiration.—The mechanical act of respiration consists of two sets of movements, viz., those of inspiration and of expiration, in which air is successively drawn into the lungs and expelled from them by the alternate increase and diminution of the thoracic cavity. The changes in the capacity of the thorax are effected by the expansion and contraction of its lateral walls, called costal respiration, and by the depression and elevation of the floor of the cavity, through contraction and relaxation of the diaphragm, called dia- phragmatic or abdominal respiration. These two movements are normally combined in the act of respiration, but in different circumstances one of them is resorted to more than the other. Thus, abdominal respiration predominates in the male, while costal respiration is employed to a greater extent in the female. Inspiration.—The study of the movements of the thoracic walls in respiration presents considerable difficulty from the complexity of these movements, and from the impossibility of perfectly imitating in the dead body the mechanical con- ditions under which they occur in life. On a fresh ligamentous thorax, by raising- and depressing the sternum, the ribs may be moved upwards and downwards nearly parallel to one another ; the first rib moving as freely as the others. But during life several causes combine to make the first rib more fixed than those which follow ; as for example, the weight of the upper extremity, and the strain of the intercostal muscles and ribs beneath. The movements of the thoracic walls in respiration are as follows : 1st. The antero-posterior diameter is increased by a forward movement of the sternum with the attached ribs and cartilages ; the lower end of the sternum being raised and advanced, while the upper end, which in easy respiration is at rest, or nearly so, is only raised in full inspiration. 2nd. The transverse diameter of the thorax is increased by the elevation and the ever- sion of the ribs ; the first of these movements bringing larger costal arches to a level occupied in expiration by smaller arches above them ; and the second, by the rotation of the ribs round an axis extending from their vertebral extremities to the sternum, increases the width of their arch outwards. These movements are facilitated by the elasticity of the ribs and, to a greater extent, of the car- tilages, allowing of the opening out of the angle between the two, which is ren- dered necessary by the resistance offered by the sternum and the weight of the upper limb to the forward and upward movement of the anterior extremities of the costal arches, while the capacity of the thorax is also increased in its inferior part by the simultaneous backward movement of the lower ribs, due to the ar- rangement of the costo-transverse articulations (see p. 149). 3rd. The vertical diameter of the thoracic cavity is increased by the descent of the platform of the diaphragm forming its floor ; and as the lower ribs are drawn backwards and out- wards rather than raised, while the last rib may even move somewhat downwards, the depth of the hinder part of the cavity is by this means also slightly augmented. Lastly, it may be remarked, that extension of the vertebral column is an important agent in respiration, for when the column is bent forwards, the ribs are pressed