695 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE ANKLE AND FOOT. The bifurcation of the popliteal artery takes place about two inches below the knee-joint, and on a level with the lower'part of the tubercle of the tibia. The course of the anterior tibial artery is marked on the front of the leg by a line drawn from a point midway between the head of the fibula and the prominence of the outer tuberosity of the tibia to the centre of the ankle-joint. The intermuscular space in which the artery lies is also indicated by a depression which is seen at the outer border of the tibialis anticus when the muscle is called into action. The posterior tibial artery runs in the direction of a line drawn from the centre of the ham to a spot midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and the centre of the convexity of the heel; beneath this spot, the vessel divides into the internal and external plantar arteries. The posterior tibial artery is covered by the gastrocnemius and solcus for about two thirds of its length, but in the lower third it is superficial and may be felt pulsating in the interval between the teudo Achillis and the tibia. About three inches below the knee, it gives off the large peroneal branch, which follows the direction of the fibula, and terminates behind the external malleolus. THE ANKLE AND FOOT. Of the two malleoli, the internal is usually the more prominent, but the external descends lower and also projects farther back, having its point, as a rule, about three-quarters of an inch nearer to the heel than that of the internal malleolus. On the dorsum of the foot, the tarsal bones are not usually to be distinguished individually, but the head of the astragalus not unfrequently forms a considerable projection when the ankle-joint is extended. Along the inner side of the foot, the tuberosity of the os calcis is first felt, and then, about an inch below the internal malleolus, the sustentaculum tali of the same bone ; in front of the latter, and about an inch and a half from the malleolus, the tubercle of the navicular bone is prominent, and to it the tendon of the tibialis posticus may be followed from the back of the internal malleolus ; the finger next passes over the internal cuneiform bone, and recognizes the base of the first metatarsal bone as a slightly prominent ridge ; from this, the shaft of the bone may be traced forwards beneath the skin to its expanded head, below which the sesamoid bones may be felt on the plantar aspect of the metatarso-phalangeai articulation. On the outer side of the foot, nearly the whole of the external surface of the os calcis is subcutaneous, and the peroneal spine of the bone may often be felt a little below and in front of the external malleolus. The anterior extremity of the os calcis may be distinguished when the foot is inverted, forming a marked prominence above the level of the cuboid bone, and in front of this, distant about two and a half inches from the external malleolus, the projecting tuberosity at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone is easily felt. Over the front of the ankle, the tendons of the anterior muscles of the leg are bound down by the anterior annular ligament; they can he readily distinguished when the joint is flexed, spreading over the dorsum of the foot, and disposed in the following order :—the most internal and the largest is the tibialis anticus; next comes the extensor proprius hallucis, and then the extensor longus digitorum, dividing into its four slips for the smaller toes ; lastly, proceeding from the outer side of the long extensor to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone is the peroneus tertins; the last-named is, however, not unfrequently wanting. The anterior tibial vessels and nerve are placed, opposite the ankle-joint.