MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 218 from the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane ; and in the majority of instances it receives also a distinct fleshy and tendinous slip, spring- ing in common with the flexor sublimis digitorum from the inner condyle or tlie coronoid process. The muscle ends in a tendon which passes be- hind the annular ligament of the wrist close to the trapezium, turns out- wards between the two heads of the flexor brevis and between the sesa- moid bones, and, entering a canal similar to those of the other flexor tendons, is finally inserted into the base of the second phalanx of the thumb. As the tendon of the muscle passes under the annular ligament it is surrounded by a synovial bursa, which is continued below into the digital sheath, and com- municates above with the bursa of the common flexor tendons in the manner before mentioned. Varieties.—The flexor longus pollicis is sometimes connected by a slip with the flexor sublimis or profundus, or the pronator teres. A tendon of insertion into the index finger has been observed, as also a slip to the first lumbricalis. The pronator quadratus, placed close to the bones behind the last two muscles, arises from the inner part of the anterior surface of the ulna in its lower fourth ; its fibres cross the lower part of the forearm, some transversely and others obliquely, and they are inserted for a slightly shorter distance into the fore part of the radius. Varieties.—The pronator quadratus is subject to varieties, chiefly as follows :— 1. It may be entirely absent, but this is rare ; 2, it is subdivided into two layers, or occasionally into three ; 3, it extends farther upwards on the bones of the forearm than usual; 4, it is prolonged downwards on the carpus, in some cases as a radio-carpal, and in others as an ulno-carpal muscle. The radio-carpus (Fano), or flexor carpi radialis brevis (Wood), is an addi- tional small muscle not unfrequently seen, arising from the radius, usually from the anterior border and surface above the pronator quadratus, and very variably inserted below, into the annular ligament, the trapezium, magnum, or some other part of the carpus, or into one or more of the metacarpal bones. Nerves.—The muscles of the pronator and flexor group receive their nerves in greatest part from the median ; only one muscle, flexor carpi ulnaris, being wholly, and another, flexor profundus digitorum, in part, supplied from the ulnar nerve. The branches from the median are distributed to the muscles in two sets, the superficial muscles being supplied by branches arising from the trunk near the elbow, the deep muscles, viz., the flexor longus pollicis, the outer half of the flexor profundus and the pronator quadratus, being supplied by its anterior interosseous branch. SUPINATOR AND EXTENSOR MUSCLES. The muscles of this group are, like those of the front of the forearm, divided into a superficial and a deep layer. The superficial muscles are seven in number, viz., the supinator longus, the extensores carpi radiales longior and brevior, the extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, and anconeus. The last muscle has already been described in connection with the triceps (p. 211). The supinator radii longus muscle (brachio-radialis—Soemmering) arises from the upper two-thirds of the external supracondylar ridge of the humerus, and from the external intermuscular septum. Its fibres form a thin fleshy mass, which descends on the outer and anterior part of the limb to about the middle of the forearm, where it ends in a flat