684 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF TIIE UPPER LIME. wards. It is placed beneath the ninth, tenth and eleventh ribs of the left side, being separated from them by the diaphragm, and at its upper part also by the lung. It lies very obliquely, its long axis coinciding almost exactly with the line of the tenth rib. Its highest and lowest points are on a level respectively with the ninth dorsal and first lumbar spines; its inner end is distant about an inch and a half from the median plane of the body, and its outer end about reaches the mid- axillary line. The upper end of the left kidney reaches to the level of the eleventh dorsal spine ; the lower end is nearly two inches from the iliac crest, and a little below the level of the second lumbar spine ; the hilus is about two inches from the middle line, and opposite the first lumbar spine. The right kidney is generally from half to three-quarters of an inch lower than the left. The ascending and descending portions of the colon pass vertically along the outermost part of the right and left kidneys respectively ; the part of the intestine which is in contact with the abdominal wall is placed immediately behind a line carried vertically upwards from the central point of the iliac crest. The pancreas crosses the spinal column opposite the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar spines, and the third part of the duodenum immediately below the latter. The relation of the origins of the spinal nerves to the spinous processes of the vertebrae may be summed up as follows.—The eight cervical nerves occupy the part of the spinal cord from its commence- ment to the level of the sixth cervical spine ; the upper six dorsal nerves, from the seventh cervical to the fourth dorsal spine ; the lower six dorsal nerves, from the fifth to the tenth dorsal spine ; the five lumbar nerves arise opposite the eleventh and twelfth dorsal spines ; and the five sacral nerves correspond to the first lumbar spine. (See, for farther details, W. R. Gowers, “ The Diagnosis of Diseases of the Spinal Cord,” London, 1880, p. G.) SUPERFICIAL ANATOHY OF THE UPPER LIMB. THE SHOULDER. In the region of the shoulder, the outer part of the clavicle and the acromion process of the scapula can be distinctly felt beneath the skin, and the extremity of the former bone usually gives rise to a marked elevation at its junction with the acromion. The rounded prominence of the shoulder is formed immediately by the thick deltoid muscle, but it is also due in great measure to the large upper extremity of the humerus, which can be felt moving under the muscle as the arm is rotated. Close to the inner side of the shoulder-joint, and just below the clavicle, the coracoid process is to be recognised ; and by pressing deeply in the axilla when the arm is abducted, the lower margin of the glenoid cavity and the head of the humerus are also to be felt. The adjacent margins of the deltoid and pectoralis major are closely united together at their lower parts, so that the division between the two muscles is not indicated on the surface ; but superiorly, they are separated by a triangular interval of variable breadth, which gives rise to the well marked wfraclavicalar fossa. By pressing deeply in this fossa, the axillary artery may be compressed against the second rib. The