Fig. 7. VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 12 or neck. It presents in front a smooth groove is, sometimes converted into a foramen by a small arch of bone, and corresponds to the notches of the other vertebrae. The transverse processes are larger and project further outwards than those of the subjacent vertebrae. They are flattened from above down- wards, and have a large foramen. Their extremities are not bifid, but broad and rough. The Second Vertebra or Axis (vert, dentata) forms a pivot on which the first vertebra rotates carrying the head. The body is characterized by the presence of a large blunt tooth- like process called odontoid (proc. dentatus). This consists of an enlarged part termed the head, and a lower part surface for articulation with the atlas, and behind a smooth groove to receive the transverse ligament. The lower surface Fig. 7.—The axis. (A. T.) \ A, seen from above and behind ; B, seen from the right side. 1, body ; 4, spinal foramen ; 5, spinous process ; 6, transverse process ; 7, superior articular surface ; 7', inferior articular process ; 1* in A, is placed at the side of the odontoid process; in B, in front of it, marking the smooth surface of articu- lation with the anterior arch of the atlas. of the body resembles that of the suc- ceeding vertebras. Its anterior surface presents a low median vertical ridge, with a depression on each side. The superior articular surfaces placed like those of the atlas in front of the notch, lie close to the base of the odontoid process, partly on the body and partly on the pedicles of the vertebra. These surfaces look upwards and slightly outwards. The inferior articular processes are similar in form and position to those of the succeeding vertebrae. The spinous process is very large, rough, deeply bifid, and grooved on its inferior surface. The lamincc are very thick and strong. The transverse processes are short and the anterior tubercle almost obsolete. The foramen for the vertebral artery is inclined obliquely upwards and outwards. The Seventh Cervical Vertebra (vert, prominens) has a long tuberculated spine, which projects under the skin (hence its name), and the transverse processes are massive, only slightly grooved, with a small foramen, and terminate in a single broad tubercle. Dorsal or Thoracic Vertebrae.—These are twelve in number, and support the ribs. The body as seen from above is somewhat heart-shaped ; its antero- posterior and transverse diameters are nearly equal; its depth greater behind than before. It is specially characterized by the presence', at the place where if joins the arch, of depressed articular surfaces for the heads of ribs. In the greater number of instances, there are two costal surfaces on eaci side,—one on the upper, the other on the lower border,—so placed tha