230 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF TEE LOWER LIMB. seven interosseous muscles have a double action, in consequence of their insertion, complete or partial, into the expansions of the extensor tendons. This action con- sists firstly, in the flexion of the fingers at the metacarpophalangeal articulations, and secondly, in extension of the second and third phalanges. The lumbricales and interosseous muscles, therefore, are antagonists to both the long flexors and to the long extensor. This partial and combined action of the long and short muscles upon the fingers, of which the movements made in forming the hair- stroke in writing may be taken as an example, has been well known for a con- siderable time, especially as regards the lumbricales, but it has recently been confirmed and elucidated as regards the interossei by the electro-physiological experiments and pathological observations of Duchenne, whose interesting work* may be advantageously consulted on these and other muscular movements. With respect to the interosseous muscles, it is farther to be observed that, besides being flexors of the first and extensors of the second and third phalanges in the manner previously stated, they severally exercise an abducting or adducting action on certain fingers, or direct them away from or towards the middle line of the hand, according to the places of their respective insertions ; and thus the four dorsal interosseous muscles are abductors of the index, middle and ring fingers, and the three palmar interosseous muscles are adductors of the index, ring, and little fingers respectively. While the muscles of the thumb produce for the most part the several move- ments indicated by their names, these movements, in consequence of the position of the first metacarpal bone, take place in directions which differ from those of the corresponding movements of the fingers. Thus, extension, being movement in the direction of the dorsal surface of the digit, occurs in nearly the same plane as abduction of the fingers ; and in abduction, the thumb moving in the direction of its radial border is carried more forwards than outwards. Opposition is pro- duced by the combined action of the flexor brevis and opponens muscles. The little finger is withdrawn from the others by its abductor, as the ring finger is withdrawn from the middle finger by the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle ; and the abductor acting with the long flexors, likewise assists the flexor brevis in keeping the first phalanx firmly down in grasping. The opponens draws forwards the fifth metacarpal bone, so as to render the hand narrower and deepen the hollow of the palm. While the palmar is longus has the effect of tightening the palmar fascia, the palmaris brevis draws up the integument on the inner side, so as to increase the hypothenar prominence. II.—MUSCLES AND FASCIA! OF THE LOWER LIMB. The muscles which pass between the trunk and the lower limb, viz., the psoas, pyriformis, and part of the gluteus maximus, are so few in number and so intimately connected with others belonging strictly to the limb, that it is unnecessary to describe them as a distinct group, as has been done in the case of the more numerous and considerable ,muscles which attach the upper limb to the trunk. FASCIiE OF TEE HIP AND THIGH. The superficial fascia of the lower limb is similar to and continuous with that of other parts of the body. Over the gluteal region it is very thick, and assists in forming the prominence of the buttock. On the front of the thigh it covers the lymphatic glands and the superficial vessels and nerves ; it passes freely over Poupart’s ligament, becoming continuous with the subcutaneous layer of the abdominal fascia, and internally it passes into the dartos tunic of the scrotum and into the * Dr. Gr. B. Duchenne, “Physiologie des Mouvements, &c.,” Paris, 1867.