181 TARSAL AETICULATIONS. The dorsal or superior ligament is a flat band, connecting the upper surfaces of the calcaneum and the cuboid bone. The internal or interosseous ligament is placed deeply in the hollow between the astragalus and os calcis, and is closely connected with the external calcaneo-navicular ligameut. A separate synovial membrane lines this joint. Articulations of the Navicular, Cuboid, and Cuneiform Bones, one with another.—Naviculo-cuboid Articulation.—The navicular and cuboid bones are connected by a dorsal ligament, composed of short Fig. 152. Si/ 21 22 Fig. 152.—Ligaments of the foot, from the outside and dorsal aspect. (A.T.) J 1, lower part of the interosseous membrane ; 2, anterior inferior tibio-peroneal liga- ment ; 3, posterior inferior tibio-peroneal ligament ; 4, middle, 5, anterior, and 6, posterior parts of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 7, is placed above the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament; 8, external calcaneo-navicular; 9, dorsal calcaneo-cuboid ; 10, part of the long plantar or calcaneo-cuboid ; 11, astragalo-navicular; 12 and 13, second and third navieulo-euneiform, and between them one of the inter- cuneiform ligaments ; 14, superior naviculo-cuboid ; 15, placed on the external cuneiform bone, points to the cuneo-metatarsal ligaments from that bone to the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones ; 16, cuneo-metatarsal ligament, from the first cuneiform to the second metatarsal bone ; between 15 and 16, are seen the cuneo-metatarsal ligaments which converge from the three cuneiform bones on the second metatarsal ; 17, cubo- metatarsal ligament passing to the fourth metatarsal bone ; 18, that to the fifth, 19 and x x, dorsal intermetatarsal ligaments; 20, lateral metatarso-digital ; 21, 22, lateral interphalangeal. thin fibres, extending obliquely between the two bones ; a plantar, con- sisting of transverse fibres ; and an interosseous ligament, which inter- venes between their contiguous surfaces. When the bones touch, which is not always the case, they present two small articulating surfaces, which are covered with cartilage and have between them an offset of the adjacent navieulo-euneiform synovial cavity. Navieulo-euneiform Articulation.—The navicular articulates with the three cuneiform bones by the smooth facets on its anterior surface, forming one continuous joint. They are united by dorsal ligaments, passing from the upper surface of the navicular to the first, second and third cuneiform bones, and by plantar ligaments, which are similarly diV