ARCH OF THE AORTA. 353 and is directed upwards, backwards, and to the left, then directly backwards, forming a well-marked curve round tbe trachea, to the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra. Arrived at that point, it bends down- wards, and at the lower border of the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra, on its left side, the arch terminates in the descending thoracic aorta. Near the base of the heart the aorta is enlarged, and presents externally three small bulging® of nearly equal size, corresponding with the dilatations which form the sinuses of Valsalva or sinuses of the aortic valves, described with the heart. These sinuses are placed, one in front and two behind, and from the anterior and left posterior are given off the two coronary arteries of the heart. From the difference in the direction and connections of its several portions the arch is described as consisting of an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. The ascending portion of the arch of the aorta (28 mm., Henle) is placed at its commencement behind the sternum, on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage of the left side ; and it rises as high as the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side. Its length is about two inches or two inches and a quarter ; and its direction is curved. In most cases there exists along the right side a dilatation, named the great sinus of the aorta. This dilatation varies in size in different bodies, and occasionally is not to be detected. This portion of the aortic arch is for the greater part of its length enclosed in the same sheath of pericardium with the pulmonary artery in such a manner that both vessels are covered by the serous mem- brane, except where they are in contact with each other. At its commencement the ascending part of the arch is in contact anteriorly with the pulmonary artery, and with the right auricular appendage; but farther up, as the aorta passes forwards and to the right side and the pulmonary artery backwards on the left, the aorta comes into view. It then approaches very near to the sternum, from which it is separated by the pericardium, by the right pleura, and to a variable extent by the thin anterior margin of the right lung ; the descending vena cava lies on the right side, and the pulmonary artery passes back- wards on the left ; while behind are placed the left auricle of the heart and the right pulmonary artery. The second or transverse part of the arch is covered, slightly on the right side, to a much greater extent on the left, by the pleura and lung, and is placed immediately in front and to the left of the trachea, the oesophagus, and the thoracic duct. The upper border of the transverse part of the arch has in contact with it the left innominate vein ; and from it are given off the large arteries (innominate, left carotid, and left subclavian), which are furnished to the head and the upper limbs. The lower or concave border overhangs the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and is connected with the left branch of that artery by the re- mains of the ductus arteriosus. This part of the arch is crossed in front by the left pneumo-gastric, phrenic and superficial cardiac nerves, as well as by the left superior intercostal vein ; and the recurrent laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric turns upwards beneath and behind it. The descending portion of the arch (28 mm.) rests against the left side of the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra, and is covered by the left pleura and lung. To the right side of this part of the arch is the oesophagus with the thoracic duct. VOL. i. A A