PEEINEAL MUSCLES IN THE MALE. 341 the fat which occupies the ischio-rectal fossa. The posterior border is adjacent to, and often continuous with, the coccygeus. Between the anterior borders of the right and left muscles the membranous part of the urethra passes downwards as it issues from the prostate. The coccygeus or levator coccygis muscle is composed of fleshy and tendinous fibres, forming a thin, flat, and triangular sheet, which arises by its apex from the spine of the ischium, and is inserted by its base into the border of the coccyx and the lower part of the sacrum. Relations.—The internal or pelvic surface of this muscle assists in supporting the rectum : its external surface is intimately united to the small sacro-sciatic ligament. The levatores ani and coccygei muscles together have been appropriately named by Meyer the pelvic diaphragm. Varieties.—The coccygeus is sometimes inserted wholly into the side of the sacrum. A few fleshy and tendinous fibres are occasionally seen passing from the lower part of the anterior surface of the sacrum to the coccyx, constituting the sacro-coccygeus anticus or curvator coccygis muscle. b. Gknito-urinary muscles.—These are three muscles on each side, placed immediately beneath the superficial perineal fascia, viz., the transversus perinei, the ischio-cavernosus, and the bulbo-cavernosus, and one single muscle more deeply placed, between the layers of the triangular ligament, viz., the constrictor urethrae. The transversus perinei muscle arises from the inner side of the ischial tuberosity, immediately above (deeper than) the origin of the ischio-cavernosus, and is directed obliquely forwards and inwards to unite with the muscle of the opposite side, as well as with the external sphincter and bulbo-cavernosus, at the central point of the perineum. Behind this muscle the superficial perineal fascia turns upwards to join the base of the triangular ligament. Varieties.—The transverse muscle is exceedingly variable in its arrangement. It is sometimes absent, and at other times one or more small muscular slips are found lying on the same plane with it, in front or behind. It may also be in- serted wholly or in great part into the bulbo-cavernosus or external sphincter. As a rare occurrence a muscular slip has been seen springing from the fascia at the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and inserted into the triangular liga- ment on its lower surface (Henle), or on its upper surface (G. D. T.). The ischio-cavernosus or erector penis muscle, embracing the crus penis, arises from the inner part of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium behind and on each side of the attachment of the crus. From this origin the fleshy fibres are directed forwards to a tendinous ex- pansion which is spread over the surface of the crus, and is inserted into the outer and under sides of that body towards its fore part. Variety.—Houston has described (“ Dublin IIosp. Reports,” v., 458), under the name of compressor venal dorsalis penis, a muscular slip separated from the outer part of the erector penis by an interval, though apparently belonging to that muscle. It arises from the pubic ramus, in front of the origin of the erector muscle and the crus of the penis, and, passing upwards and forwards, is inserted by joining its fellow in a median aponeurosis above the dorsal vein. This muscle, which is well developed in the dog and several other animals, is by no means constant in the human subject. The bulbo-cavernosus or ejaculator urinse muscle is united with its fellow of the opposite side in a median tendinous raphe, continued