EXTENSOB, MUSCLES OF THE THUMB. 223 the annular ligament, and passes on to be inserted into the proximal end of the first phalanx. The extensor secundi internodii pollicis muscle, much larger than the extensor primi internodii, which it overlaps, arises immediately below the extensor ossis metacarpi from the outer division of the posterior surface of the ulna for its middle third or more, and from the interosseous membrane for about an inch opposite the lower part of the Fig. 170.—Superficial mus- Fig. 170. CLES AND TENDONS ON THE BACK OF THE WRIST AND hand (after Bourgery). g The posterior annular liga- ment of the wrist is represented. I, extensor ossis metaearpi pol- licis ; 1', its insertion ; 2, ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis; 2', its insertion; 3, tendon of extensor secundi internodii pol- licis ; 4, extensor communis digitorum ; 4', tendon to the middle finger, receiving the in- sertion of the second and third dorsal interosseous muscles ; 4", division of the tendon into three portions, of which the median is inserted into the second phalanx, the two lateral passing on to be inserted at 4"', into the terminal phalanx ; 5, extensor minimi digiti; 5', its junction with the slip of the common extensor; 6, placed on the lower end of the ulna, points to the extensor carpi ulnaris; 6', insertion of this muscle into the base of the fifth metacarpal bone ; 7, part of the flexor carpi ulnaris ; 8, placed on the os magnum,points to the insertion of the extensor carpi radialis brevior; 8', placed on the base of the second meta- carpal bone, points to the insertion of the extensor carpi radialis longior ; 9, tendon of extensor indicis ; 10, small part of the adductor pollicis, and inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis ; 11, first dorsal interosseous or abductor indicis : in the other three inter- osseous spaces are seen in succession, from the radial side inwards, the insertion of the first palmar, second dorsal, third dorsal, second palmar, fourth dorsal, and third palmar interosseous muscles ; 12, abductor minimi digiti. ulnar attachment. Its fibres end in a tendon which passes through a separate compartment of the annular ligament, occupying the narrow oblique, groove in the middle of the posterior surface of the carpal end of the radius, and is inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. Varieties.—The extensor muscles of the thumb are subject to considerable variations, and if all the three muscles be included they seem to occur as often as in one out of every six subjects dissected. The most common occur in the extensor ossis metacarpi, and consist in more or less cleavage of the muscle of its tendon into separate parts. The insertion of the distinct tendons takes place either doubly into the first metacarpal bone, or in part into the trapezium, or