ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 172 passes to its insertion beneath the posterior border of the ligament, and below the inner tuberosity the lower internal articular vessels are placed between the ligament and the bone. The external lateral ligament is a rounded cord, which extends from the external tuberosity of the femur to the head of the fibula. Its internal surface lies upon the tendon of the popliteus muscle and the inferior external articular vessels. The tendon of the biceps flexor cruris muscle is divided into two by this ligament, and between the ligament and the tendon there is frequently a synovial bursa. Farther back is another less constant band, the short external lateral ligament, which springs from the external condyle of the femur in connection with the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and terminates below on the styloid process of the fibula. Fig. 144. A B Fig. 144, A.—The knee-joint, opened from before, to show the crucial liga- ments AND SEMILUNAR FIBRO-CARTILAGES. (A. T.) 1 1, external, and 2, internal semilunar fibro-cartilage ; 3, on the outer condyle of the femur, points to the anterior crucial ligament; 4, placed on the line separating the patellar surface from the inner condylar surface of the femur, points to the posterior crucial liga- ment ; 5, transverse ligament of the semilunar fibro-eartilages ; 6, part of the ligamentum patellae; 7, on the head of the fibula, points to the superior anterior tibio-fibular ligament ; 8, upper part of the interosseous membrane, showing the perforation for the anterior tibia! artery. Fig. 144, B.—The knee-joint, opened from behind, so as to expose the crucial LIGAMENTS AND SEMILUNAR FIBF.O-CARTILAGES. (A. T.) ^ 1, internal, 2, external semilunar fibro-cartilage; 3, anterior, 4. posterior crucial ligament : farther up is seen the accessory band from the external semilunar fibro- cartilage ; 8, upper part of the interosseous membrane ; 9, internal lateral ligament ; 10, placed on the head of the fibula, points to the posterior superior tibio-fibular liga- ment ; between the head of the fibula and the external fibro-cartilage (2) is seen the sur- face of the tibia, upon which the semilunar cartilage descends in flexion, and where a communication sometimes takes place between the synovial cavities of the knee-joint and of the tibio-fibular articulation.