BONES OF THE HEAD. The sphenoidal spongy hones seldom appear till after birth, and are united to the body at the age of puberty. Each is in early life a hollow pyramid formed by the union of three laminae, viz., an inferior, an external, and a superior; and the sphenoidal sinus subsequently results from the expansion of the cavity thus enclosed. The inferior lamina forms the greater part of what can be distinguished Fig. GO. Fig. GO.—Ossification of the sphenoid bone (K. Quain). A, sphenoid bone at an early period, seen from above ; 1, 1', the greater wings ossified ; 2, 2', the lesser wings, in which the ossification has encircled the optic foramen, and a small suture is distinguishable at its posterior and inner side ; 3, two round granules of bones in the body below the sella turcica., the rest being cartilaginous. B, copied from Meckel (Archiv. vol. i. tab. vi. fig. 23), and stated to be from a fetus of six months ; 2*, additional nuclei for the lesser wings ; 5, separate lateral processes of the body (lingulae): the other indications are the same as in A. C, back part of the bone shown in A ; 4, internal pterygoid plates still separate. D, sphenoid at birth. The great wings are still separate. The presphenoid is now joined to the basisphenoid, "and the internal pterygoid plates (not seen in the figure) are united to the external. in the adult; the external is that to which the orbital portion belongs ; while the superior lamina, foiming the inner wall and roof of the original sphenoidal sinus, becomes, as the sinus expands, partly absorbed and partly united to the attenuated body of the presphenoid, which is ultimately reduced to the thin sphenoidal septum and the rostrum. In the ethmoid bone ossification commences in the fourth or fifth month, by the appearance of a nucleus in the orbital plates of the lateral masses gradually extending into the turbinate bones. During the first year the vertical and cribri- form plates are ossified from a single nucleus, which, spreading outwards, unites with the lateral masses about the beginning of the second year. The ethmoidal cells are not formed till the fourth or fifth year. The superior maxillary bone commences to ossify immediately after the clavicle and the lower jaw. As described by Callender (Phil. Trans. 1869, p. 163), the osseous deposit takes place in many points, appearing first in the orbital plate, the nasal process and the alveolar border, but they speedily fuse, and can not be regarded as separate centres. The part of the bone, however, which carries the incisor teeth, extending as far back as the incisor foramen, has an indepen- dent origin, corresponding to the premaxillary bone of the lower animals. In young subjects always, and often in the adult, there is to be seen a fine fissure, incisor fissure, on the under surface of the palate process, passing outwards from the anterior palatine canal to the alveolar border, in front of the canine socket; and on the upper surface a similar line may be seen, though less frequently, extending up some distance on the nasal surface of the body ; but no trace of the line of union exists on the facial surface, as is the case in the lower animals.