252 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. into the second phalanx, while their lateral parts unite together and are inserted on the third, in a manner exactly similar to the arrangement of the extensor tendons of the fingers (p. 220). Relations.—It is in contact internally with the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius hallucis, and externally with the peronei muscles. It rests upon the external tuberosity of the tibia, the anterior surface of the fibula, the lower end of the tibia, the front of the ankle-joint, and the extensor brevis digitorum. The anterior tibial nerve passes obliquely beneath its upper part. Varieties.—This muscle varies considerably in the mode of origin and the arrangement of its various tendons. The tendons to the second and fifth toes may be found doubled, or extra slips are given off from one or more tendons to then- corresponding metatarsal bones, or to the short extensor, or to one of the interosseous muscles. The peroneus tertius muscle arises below the extensor longus digitorum, from the lower fourth or more of the anterior surface of the fibula, from the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and from the intermuscular septum which separates it on the outer side from the peroneus brevis. Its tendon is inserted into the upper surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Relations.—It is placed to the outer side of the long extensor of the toes, with which it is usually united at its origin, and it passes through the same compart- ment of the annular ligament with that muscle. Varieties.—The peroneus tertius is sometimes as large as the extensor longus digitorum ; it frequently terminates partly or wholly on the fourth metatarsal bone ; and it is sometimes altogether wanting. Nerves.—All the muscles of the front of the leg are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. EXTERNAL REGION. The peroneus longus muscle arises by a few fibres from the outer tuberosity of the tibia ; from the head and upper two-thirds of the ex- ternal surface of the fibula ; from the fascia of the leg; and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The muscular fibres end in the lower half of the leg on a tendon which passes downwards with that of the peroneus brevis in the hollow behind the external malleolus ; it next inclines forwards on the outer side of the os calcis, and then winds round the outer border of the foot to enter the groove on the lower surface of the cuboid bone ; finally, crossing the sole obliquely inwards and for- wards, it is inserted into an impression on the lower and posterior part of the first metatarsal bone, and slightly into the adjoining part of the internal cuneiform bone : an offset is frequently sent from it to the base of the second metatarsal bone. Relations.—At its origin the peroneus longus lies between the extensor longus digitorum in front and the soleus and flexor longus hallucis behind; in the lower part of the leg it lies behind the peroneus brevis. Its attachment to the bone is interrupted for about an inch below the head of the fibula, where the external popliteal nerve passes beneath it. Behind the external malleolus the tendons of both peronei are contained in the same sheath under the annular liga- ment, but on the outer side of the os calcis each tendon has its own sheath, the two being separated by a fibrous septum and by the peroneal spine of the cal- caneum when that process exists. A single synovial sac invests both tendons and sends two processes downwards into the special sheaths. In the sole of the foot the tendon of the peroneus longus lies in a fibrous sheath formed by the