235 MUSCLES OF THE HIP. tenor head of the rectus fern oris; its outer surface is covered by the gluteus rnedius, gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve; and its posterior border is covered by the pyriformis muscle. Varieties.—This muscle may be divided into an anterior and a posterior part, or it may send detached slips to the hip joint, to the pyriformis, to the gemellus superior, or to the outer part of the origin of the vastus externus (Macalister). The anterior fibres are occasionally separate, representing the scansorius muscle of apes. The tensor vaginse femoris or ilio-aponeurotic muscle (fig. 180, 5) arises by tendinous fibres from the external margin of the iliac crest at its fore part, and from part of the notch between the two anterior iliac spines external to the attachment of the sartorius, and by some fleshy fibres from the fascia covering the gluteus rnedius : passing downwards and a little outwards and backwards it is inserted between two laminae of the fascia lata, from three to four inches below the great trochanter of the femur. The outer of these lamina; is continued upwards on the muscle in its whole extent, being part of the general investment of the limb, the deeper is connected above with the origin of the rectus femoris, and with the fibres attaching the gluteus minimus to the hip-joint. The fibres in the fascia prolonged from the insertion of the muscle form part of the ilio-tibial band, ancl can be followed in this down to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Relations.—This muscle lies upon the anterior border of the gluteus rnedius, the upper parts of the rectus femoris and vastus externus muscles, and the as- cending branches of the external circumflex artery. At its origin it lies between the sartorius and gluteus rnedius muscles. The pyriformis muscle arises within the pelvis by three fleshy digita- tions from the second, third and fourth pieces of the sacrum between and outside the anterior sacral foramina, slightly from the hinder border of the ilium immediately below the posterior inferior spine, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The muscle passes out of the pelvis by the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and is inserted into a mark on the upper border of the great trochanter by a rounded tendon which is closely united for some distance before its insertion to the subjacent tendon of the obturator internus and gemelli muscles. Relations.—Between the upper border of the muscle as it escapes from the pelvis and the bone the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve issue ; at its lower border, between it and the superior gemellus, the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves make their appearance; its superficial surface is covered by the gluteus maximus; and its deep surface is separated by the hinder part of the gluteus minimus from the hip-joint. Varieties.—This muscle is frequently pierced by a root of the great sciatic nerve or by its external popliteal branch, and is thus divided more or less com- pletely into two parts. It may be united with the gluteus rnedius, or give fibres to the gluteus minimus, or receive the insertion of the superior gemellus. It may have only one or two sacral attachments, or again its tendon may be inserted into the capsule of the hip-joint. Its entire absence has also been noted. The obturator internus muscle, in great part lodged within the pelvis, arises from the deep surface of the obturator membrane except at its lower part; from the fibrous arch which completes the canal for the obturator vessels and nerve ; from the pelvic surface of the hip-bone, externally between the obturator foramen and the great sciatic notch, reaching up to the ilio-pectineal line, and internally between the foramen