229 ACTIONS OF MUSCLES OF FOREARM AND HAND. annular ligament, the fascia of the forearm, or tendon of the palmaris longus. In some cases the additional head arises a considerable distance above the wrist from the intermuscular fascia, under either the flexor carpi ulnaris or flexor carpi radialis, and passing downwards covers the ulnar artery to a greater or less extent, ending in the abductor or occasionally in the flexor minimi digiti. This long head is regarded by Macalister as a derivative of the palmaris longus. The opponentes muscles are subject to varieties chiefly affecting their extent, and the degree of their union with or separation from the neighbouring muscles. The interosseous muscles present some variations but not of any great magnitude. They are occasionally double in one or more of the spaces. A palmar interosseous muscle of the thumb is frequently present, and according to Henle is regular, in the form of a muscular slip springing from the first metacarpal bone in front of the abductor indicis, and joining below the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The arrangement which usually exists in the foot, and which is peculiar to man, has also been observed to occur in the hand. Nerves of the muscles of the hand.—The median nerve supplies branches to the abductor pollicis, the flexor brevis and opponens immediately below the annular ligament, and to the first two lumbricales muscles from the third and fourth digital nerves respectively. The ulnar nerve, besides giving a twig to the palmaris brevis, furnishes by its deep palmar division branches to the muscles of the little finger, the two internal lumbricales, all the interosseous muscles, the adductor, and the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. ACTIONS OF THE MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM AND HAND. The muscles of the forearm may be distinguished according to their actions as pronators and supinators, flexors and extensors of the wrist, and long flexors and extensors of the fingers; those of the hand are flexors and extensors, adductors, abductors and opposers of the fingers ; the terms adduction and abduction being here used with reference to the middle line of the hand. Pronation is mainly effected by the pronator teres and pronator quadratus : the flexor carpi radialis also contributes slightly to this movement. The pronator teres is fitted to flex the elbow when pronation has been completed, or when it is prevented by antagonistic muscles, and in this action it receives assistance from the other muscles arising from the internal condyle. Supination is effected principally by the supinator brevis, together with the biceps, the supinator longus having but little influence upon this action. The latter muscle is essentially a flexor of the elbow, acting, however, only after that movement has been begun by other muscles. The radial extensors of the wrist assist also in flexing the elbow ; the remaining muscles arising from the external condyle aid in extending that joint. Flexion of the wrist is produced by the radial and ulnar flexors of the carpus, and is aided by the flexors of the fingers when the action of those muscles on the fingers is either completed or is opposed by any resistance, as when the over- extended hand is pressed against a surface in pushing, or in the support of the body. Extension of the wrist, in a similar manner, is accomplished not only by the three muscles specially devoted to that function, but also by the extensors of the fingers. The lateral movements of the wrist are produced by the same muscles, acting in different combinations : abduction by the radial flexor and extensors, assisted by the extensors of the thumb ; and adduction by the ulnar flexor and extensor. To ensure the efficient action of the long extensor and flexor muscles of the fingers it is necessary that there should be simultaneous action of the flexors and extensors of the wrist respectively ; for the wrist-joint must be fixed backwards by its extensors in order that the long flexors of the fingers may act, and the wrist must be fixed forwards by its flexors in order that the long extensors may act upon the fingers. The flexor sublimis digitorum and the flexor profundus bend respectively the second and the third phalanges of the fingers, while the extensor communis ex- tends chiefly the first phalanx. The four lumbricales, on the other hand, and the