SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE UPPER LIMB. 686 plainly if the elbow be forcibly flexed with the band in a state of semi- pronation. On the inner side of the biceps, in the lower part of the arm, a smaller portion of the brachialis anticus is superficial, and between this and the triceps, the internal intermuscular septum can be felt, with the ulnar nerve close behind it, descending to the internal condyle. The form of the back of the arm is determined by the triceps muscle, the three heads of which, together with the large tendon of insertion, are to be recognized when the muscle is called into play. The inner head is the least distinct; the outer head forms a large prominence immedi- ately below the hinder border of the deltoid ; the long head can be seen issuing from between the teres major and minor muscles, and descending along the middle of the back of the arm ; while the tendon is represented by a depressed area, leading down to the olecranon process of the ulna. The musculo-spiral nerve begins to incline backwards immediately below the posterior fold of the axilla, and crosses the back of the humerus obliquely from within outwards in its middle third, being covered by the triceps muscle, and accompanied by the superior profunda vessels. At, or a little above, the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the arm, the nerve perforates the external intermuscular septum, and it then descends in front of the outer supracondylar ridge to the level of the external condyle, where it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. The former takes a straight course downwards to join the artery of the same name below the elbow ; but the posterior interosseous is directed backwards across the outer side of the radius in its upper fourth, to gain the back of the forearm. THE ELBOW. At the elbow, the internal and external condyles come to the surface, and also the olecranon process of the ulna. The internal condyle, which, it wi 1 be remembered, is directed more backwards than inwards, is very pro- minent, and forms one of the most important bony landmarks of the limb. The external condyle, together with the common tendon of the extensor muscles of the forearm, gives rise, when the joint is extended, to a well- marked depression at the outer and back part of the elbow, between the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior muscles externally, and the anconeus internally. If the elbow be semi-flexed, the condyle is slightly prominent ; and in extreme flexion, the outer part of the triceps muscle is stretched over the capitellum of the humerus, which forms a rounded eminence to the outer side of the point of the elbow (olecranon), while the condyle itself is no longer visible. The olecranon is subcutaneous at its posterior surface, its upper end being entirely covered by the insertion of the triceps ; its appearance necessarily varies with the position of the joint, as does also the distance between the process and the shoulder. A bursa is interposed between the bone and the skin. At the bend of the elbow, the subcutaneous veins are more or less dis- tinctly visible, according to the quantity of subcutaneous fat ;—the median vein bifurcating into the median-basilic and median-cephalic, which join respectively the ulnar and radial veins to form the basilic and cephalic (p. 510). The median-basilic and median-cephalic A'eins, diverging from each other, pass upwards on either side of the biceps tendon, which is seen, when the elbow is bent, descending from the lower end of the muscular belly into the interval between the two masses