DEEP POSTERIOR MUSCLES OF THE LEO. 259 Relations.—In the sole of the foot the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, together with the flexor accessorius and the lumbricales, are covered by the flexor brevis digitorum ; the hinder part of the external plantar vessels and nerve being placed between. These tendons, with their additional muscles, conceal the adductor hallucis, the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, the transversns pedis, the interosseous muscles, and the plantar arterial arch. The flexor longus hallucis muscle (flexor longus pollicis pedis) arises from the lower two-thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula ; from the intermuscular septum between it and the peronei; and from the aponeurosis common to it and the flexor longus digitorum, which covers the tibialis posticus. The muscular fibres, passing obliquely backwards and downwards, end in a tendon on the posterior surface of the muscle. This tendon traverses a groove on the lower end of the tibia, on the back of the astragalus and the under surface of the sustentaculum tali, being- bound down to those bones by a fibrous sheath lined by synovial mem- brane. Thence passing forwards and inwards, in the sole of the foot, it gives off a slip to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, by which it is crossed, and proceeds in a fibrous sheath over the first phalanx of the great toe to be inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx. Relations.—This muscle is concealed for the most part by the soleus, a small part only on the outer side of the tendo Achillis being covered by the fascia of the leg. Externally it is in contact with the peronei, and internally with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. It rests upon the fibula and tibialis posticus, and con- ceals the peroneal vessels. Behind the ankle the tendon of this muscle is separated from that of the flexor longus digitorum by an interval of more than half an inch, in which are placed the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. In the sole it is covered by the abductor hallucis and the plantar fascia; it is also crossed by the plantar vessels and nerves as well as by the tendon of the long- flexor of the toes. It rests upon the flexor brevis hallucis. Varieties.—This muscle is liable to very few variations, except in the mode of union of its tendon with that of the flexor longus digitorum which is exceedingly variable. In almost every case a slip is given from the flexor hallucis to the flexor digitorum ; and very frequently (1 in 6, Turner, Wood ; 1 in 4, Schulze) an additional slip proceeds from the flexor digitorum to the flexor hallucis. Com- plete separation of the tendons is very rare. This slip from the flexor hallucis most frequently passes to the second and third toes, but it may pass to the second only, or to all the four outer toes. The ‘pcvoneo-calcaneus interims is a small muscle described by Macalister as the probable homologue of the pronator quadratus of the arm. It arises below the flexor longus hallucis from the back of the fibula, behind the external malleolus, and passes over the sustentaculum tali in the groove with the flexor hallucis to be inserted into a tubercle on the os calcis. The tibialis posticus muscle, placed beneath the two long flexor muscles, arises from the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane ; from the outer portion of the posterior surface of the tibia, extending from the superior tibio-fibular articulation to the middle of the bone ; from the whole inner surface of the fibula; and slightly from the aponeu- rosis covering it. The fleshy fibres pass to a tendon which, commencing above in the centre of the muscle, descends along its inner border, be- comes free at the level of the lower tibio-fibular articulation, and gains the innermost groove at the back of the internal malleolus, where it is contained in a fibrous sheath and surrounded by synovial membrane. It then inclines forwards, and ends by being inserted into the tubercle of the navicular bone, sending offsets forwards to the three cuneiform bones, to the cuboid, and to the bases of the second, third and fourth s 2