247 INTERNAL FEMORAL OR ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. ramus of the pubis, below the adductor longus and between the gracilis and obturator externus ; directed obliquely backwards and outwards, it is inserted by a flat tendon into the whole of the line leading from the Fig. 1S2.—Muscles of the inner side Fig. 182. OF THE THIGH AND INTERIOR OF THE PELVIS. (A. T.) 5 1, iliacus ; 2, psoas magnus ; 3, obtu- rator interims, with, its fibres converging towards the small sacro-sciatie foramen ; 4, pyriformis, with three heads of origin, and its fibres converging towards the great sacro-sciatic foramen ; 5, lumbar aponeurosis covering the erector spirits muscle ; 6, gluteus maximus ; 7, sarto- rius ; T, its tendon inserted below the tuberosity of the tibia; 8, adductor longus ; 9, gracilis, 9', its tendon passing under that of the sartorius; 10, part of the adductor magnus; 11, semimembra- nosus ; 12, semitendinosus, 12', its in- sertion, and between 9' and 12', the tendon of the semimembranosus passing to its insertion on the inner tuberosity of the tibia. small trochanter of the femur to the linea aspera,_ immediately be- hind the insertion of the pectineus. Relations.—The adductor brevis is concealed at its origin by the ad- ductor longus and at its insertion in part by the pectineus; it is crossed by the superficial division of the ob- turator nerve, and by the deep femoral artery ; it rests on the adductor mag- nus and deep division of the obtu- rator nerve, and by its deep surface is in contact superiorly with the ob- turator externus, the internal circum- flex artery passing between. The adductor magnus muscle (fig. 178) arises slightly from the lower part of the body of the pubis external to the origin of the adductor brevis, from the inner margin of the pubic arch in its whole length, and from the lower portion of the tuberosity of the ischium. The muscular fibres diverge from their origin, some- what like the ribs of a fan from their central pivot: those from the body of the pubis and the pubic arch, pass outwards, the upper ones transversely, the succeeding ones becoming longer and directed with increasing degrees of obliquity downwards, and form a flattened layer which is inserted into the back of the femur