OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF TIIE LEG AND FOOT. 125 begins from a single centre during the third year, and is completed about the age of puberty. Fig. 103. K Fig. 103.—Ossification of the femur (R. Quain). A, from a foetus under eight months ; the body is osseous, both ends are cartilaginous. B, from a child at birth, showing a nucleus in the lower epiphysis. C, from a child of about a year old, showing a nucleus in the head. D, at the fifth or sixth year. Ossification has extended from the shaft into the neck, and a nucleus has appeared in the great trochanter. E, near the age of puberty, showing more complete ossification and a nucleus in the lesser trochanter. 1, shaft ; 2, lower extremity ; 3, head ; 4, great trochanter ; 5, small trochanter. C, D, & E are represented considerably, A and B very little, under the natural size. The tibia and fibula each present, besides the principal centre for the shaft, a superior and an inferior epiphysis. In the tibia the centre for the shaft appears in the 7th week; that for the upper extremity, including both tuber- osities and the tubercle, appears most frequently before, but sometimes after birth ; and that for the inferior extremity and internal malleolus appears in the 2nd year. The tubercle is occasionally formed from a separate centre. The lower epiphysis and shaft unite in the 18th or 19th year, the upper epiphysis and shaft in the 21st or 22nd year. In the fibula the centre for the shaft appears rather later than in the tibia ; that for the lower extremity appears in the 2nd year, and that for the upper, unlike that of the tibia, not till the 3rd or 4th year. The lower epiphysis and shaft unite about the 21st year, the upper epiphysis and shaft about the 24th year. The tarsal bones are ossified in cartilage each from a single nucleus, with the exception of the os calcis, which in addition to its proper osseous centre, has an epiphysis upon its posterior extremity. The principal nucleus of the os calcis appears in the 6th month of foetal life ; its epiphysis begins to be ossified in the 10th year, and is united to the tuberosity in the 16th or 16th year. The nucleus of the astragalus appears in the 7th month ; that of the cuboid about the time of birth ; that of the external cuneiform in the 1st year; that of the internal cuneiform in the 3rd year ; that of the middle cuneiform in the 4th year; and that of the navicular in the 4th or 6th year. The metatarsal bones and phalanges agree respectively with the correspond- ing bones of the hand, in the mode of their ossification. Each bone is formed from a principal piece and one epiphysis ; and while in the four outer metatarsal bones the epiphysis is at the distal extremity, in the metatarsal bone of the great toe and in the phalanges it is placed at the proximal extremity. In the first meta-