ACTIOX OF RESPIRATORY MUSCLES. 321 together in the concavity of the curve, and, conversely, when the column is ex- tended, the ribs are separated. Action of the intercostal muscles.—The manner in which these muscles act has been a subject of controversy from an early time, and is not yet thoroughly deter- mined. It is now generally agreed that the external muscles are elevators of the ribs, and therefore muscles of inspiration, but as to the action of the internal muscles there is still considerable difference of opinion. According to one view, defended by Haller, the external and internal layers have a common action, the decussating fibres acting in the direction of the diagonal between them ; while ac- cording to another view, that of Hamberger, the external intercostal muscles are admitted to be elevators, but the internal are held to be depressors of the ribs. More recently these views have been modified by Hutchinson to the extent of admitting that the external intercostal muscles, and the parts of the internal intercostals placed between the costal cartilages, elevate the ribs, and that the lateral portions of the internal intercostals act as depressors. This view is illustrated mechanically, and supposed by some to be demonstrated, by means of a mechanism of rods and elastic bands imitating the conditions of the ribs. But the ribs differ from such rods in respect that they are not straight or rigid bars, and are not free at either end, but are deeply curved, and have the greatest extent of motion in the middle of their arch ; and in the living subject the costal arches, in their elevation, both rotate upon certain axes and diminish their curvature, instead of describing a simple upward and downward movement like the bars, so that it is impossible to draw anycertain conclusion from such imperfect imitations of the mechanism. The view advocated by Haller, that the two muscles act in combination as elevators of the ribs, appears to derive support from several circumstances, among which may be particularly mentioned the deficiency of the external intercostal muscles in front and of the internal behind, in situations where both would undoubtedly act as depressors, and the experiments of Duchenne, who found (“ Physiol, des Mouvements,” &c., p. G46) that the direct galvanic stimulation of the external in- tercostal muscle throughout the fifth space caused the lower rib to rise towards the upper, and likewise that the stimulation of the internal intercostal muscle in the inter cartilaginous part of the space also caused the lower rib to rise, and who farther found that when the galvanic stimulus was so strong as to reach the intercostal nerve, and throw the whole of the internal as well as the external in- tercostal muscle into action, the lower rib was still elevated. This view also is the one adopted by Henle and Luschka, the latter referring especially to the experiments of Budge on the muscles of living animals, as proving that the in- ternal intercostal muscles elevate the ribs (Budge, “ Lehrbuch der Physiologie des Menschen,” Weimar, 18G0, p. 79). On the other hand, the careful and extensive series of measurements carried out by v. Ebner on the partially dissected thorax, both in the collapsed and inflated conditions, tend to confirm Hutchinson’s view, indicating that, with the exception of the first two intervals, the intercostal spaces are generally widened and the fibres of the interosseous internal inter- costals lengthened during inspiration (Arch. f. Anatomie, 1880, p. 185). Apart from the action of these muscles in producing movement of the ribs, they also fulfil an important function in supporting and maintaining an equable tension in the portions of the thoracic wall corresponding to the intercostal spaces, without opposing the resistance to the movements that would be presented by a firmer although elastic structure in the same situation. The levatorcs costavum are usually considered to have a similar action with the posterior fibres of the external intercostal muscles, and are therefore ranked among the agents of inspiration. The above-mentioned experiments of v. Ebner, however, tend to show that these muscles have very little influence upon the elevation of the ribs, but that their fibres are most contracted during extension and lateral flexion of the dorsal part of the spinal column. The scalene muscles also contribute, even in normal and quiet inspiration, to the support and elevation of the first and second ribs ; and it is obvious that the serratvs posticus superior must have a similar effect on those upper ribs to which it is attached. The action of the diaphragm is more easily understood than that of the inter- costal muscles. By its contraction and descent its convexity is diminished, the VOL. i. Y