THE VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS. 13!) kinds of movement are frequently combined, and they also run into one another in great variety. Angular movement is movement in such a manner as to increase or diminish the angle between two bones, so that they shall lie more or less nearly in a straight line. The different kinds of angular movement are designated by different terms according to the directions in which they take place with reference to the limb or body : thus flexion and extension indicate angular movements, which have the effect of bending or straightening parts upon one another or upon the trunk : adduction and abduction indicate angular movement to and from the mesial plane of the body, or, when fingers and toes are referred to, these terms are generally used to denote movement to and from the middle line of the hand or foot. Coaptation is a form of angular movement, in which, as in the movement of the patella on the femur the articular surface of one bone travels over that of another, so as to bring different parts of the surfaces successively into contact in the manner of a wheel rolling on the ground, this movement being usually accompanied by a certain amount of gliding. Circumduction is the movement performed when the shaft of a long bone or a part of a limb describes a cone, the apex of which is placed in the joint at or near one extremity of the bone, while the sides and base of the cone are described by the rest of the moving part. notation signifies movement of a bone round its axis without any great change of situation. Gliding is applied to that kind of movement in which the surfaces of adjacent bones are displaced without any accompanying angular or rota- tory motion, as in the movement of flat surfaces over each other in some of the carpal and tarsal articulations, or in the movement of advance and retreat of the lower jaw. In the various joints provided with synovial cavities, the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones are so formed as usually to be in close apposition or contact ; but in certain positions they are not entirely so, and there are even instances in which the separation of the surfaces must be considerable, as in the case of the patella, in some positions of the knee. In these cases the interval is filled up by folds of the synovial membrane, or by fatty processes connected with it. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. ARTICULATIONS OP THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The moveable vertebra are connected together by elastic discs inter- posed between the bodies; by synovial joints between the articulating processes ; and by ligaments. ■ The intervertebral discs are plates of composite structure placed between the bodies of the vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum. Each is composed of a fibro-laminar part externally, and of a pulpy substance in the centre. The laminar part forms more than half of the mass. The laminae are arranged concentrically, and consist mainly of parallel bundles of fibres running obliquely between the vertebrae and attached firmly to both, the direction of the fibres being reversed in successive layers: some fibres also run nearly horizontally. The outermost of these layers consist of ordinary fibrous tissue, but the deeper and more numerous