SOLEUS MUSCLE. 255 greater extent from two tendinous lam inas which descend, the outer from the fibula, and the inner from the arch over the vessels and the oblique line of the tibia, in the substance of the muscle, on the front surface of Fig. 185.—Superficial muscles of Fig- 185. THE LEG, SEEN FROM THE INNER side (after Bourgery). j 1, vastus intemus ; 2, sartorius ; 2', its tendon, spreading on the inner upper part of the tibia ; 3, gracilis ; 4, semitendinosus ; 4', its insertion ; and between 2' and 4', that of the gracilis ; 5, semimembranosus ; 6, inner head of the gastrocnemius ; 7, soleus ; 8, 8', placed upon the tendo Aehillis, point to the tendon of the plantaris descending on the inner side ; 9, small part of the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; 10, flexor longus digitorum ; 11, flexor longus hallucis; 12, tibialis anticus ; 12', its tendon of insertion ; 13, abductor hallucis. which each appears by one edge, the opposite edge being directed obliquely towards the middle line of the leg. The fibres from the anterior sur- faces of these laminae con- verge to a median tendinous septum which also appears on the front of the muscle by one border, while those arising from their posterior surfaces are directed downwards and backwards, and end in an aponeurosis which covers the greater part of the posterior surface of the mass, and over which the tendinous surface of the gastrocnemius glides. The tendon of insertion is prolonged downwards from this aponeurosis, being joined anteriorly by the median sep- tum, and forms the deeper and larger part of the tendo Aehillis. The fibres of the muscle are numerous and short, having a length of at most from two to three inches, and they are continued downwards on the deep surface of the tendo Aehillis to within a short distance of the heel. Relations.—The soleus rests upon the flexor longus hallucis. flexor longus digi- torum, and tibialis posticus muscles, together with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, from which, however, it is separated by the deep aponeurosis. Varieties.—To the soleus an accessory portion is occasionally added at its