408 ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. head of the bone and the capsule of the joint; the other continues out- wards, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex branch. Varieties.—Tlie most important variety in the trunk of the axillary artery consists in its giving off a muchlarger branch than usual,—an arrangement which has been observed in the proportion of one out of every ten cases (R. Quain). In one set of cases, this large branch is continued as one of the arteries of the fore- arm ; most frequently the radial (about 1 in 33), sometimes the ulnar (1 in 72), less frequently a vas aberrans, and very rarely the interosseous artery. In another set of cases, the large branch gives origin to the subscapular, the two circumflex, and the two profunda arteries of the arm ; but sometimes only one of the cir- cumflex, or only one of the deep humeral arteries arises from it. In the second class of cases the divisions of the brachial plexus of nerves surround the common stem of the branches instead of the main vessel. This disposition may with pro- bability be explained by supposing that the stem of the branches was originally the brachial artery, but that in early life it had become obstructed in its distal part, and that there had become developed in its place, as an apparent brachial artery for the supply of the lower portions of the limb, a vas aberrans, such as is some- times seen arising from the brachial artery, and uniting wih one of its branches. The superior thoracic artery is so frequently given off by the acromio-thoracic, that some anatomists have described that as the normal arrangement, giving the common trunk the name of thoracic axis. The long thoracic artery often rises from the acromio-thoracic, or is replaced by enlargement of the normal branches of that artery, and not unfrequently is given off by the subscapular. The subscapular artery is often united at its origin with the posterior circum- flex; and, on the other hand, the dorsal scapular branch sometimes springs directly from the axiflary artery. The posterior circumflex artery is sometimes removed from the axillary to the superior profunda branch of the brachial, in which case it ascends behind the teres major muscle. In another class of cases, not quite so numerous, the pos- terior circumflex gives off one or more branches usually derived from other sources : as for example (placing them in the order of frequency), the anterior cir- cumflex, the superior profunda, the dorsal scapular, the anterior circumflex and superior profunda together, or some other rarer combination of those vessels (R. Quain, op. cit., p. 230). The posterior circumflex is sometimes double ; and so is the anterior, but more seldom. An accessory external mammary branch is not unfrequently present, arising from the axillary beyond the circumflex arteries, and running downwards and inwards to the side of the chest behind the long thoracic. The following branches, usually derived from the subclavian artery, have been seen in rare cases to arise from the axillary, viz., internal mammary, suprascapular, and pos- terior scapular ; as have also the superior profunda, inferior profunda, and anas- tomotic arteries, normally branches of the brachial. The third part of the axillary artery is frequently crossed by a muscular slip (axillary arch) passing- from the latissimus dorsi to the anterior wall of the axilla (p. 193). SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. This artery is' usually tied in the third part of its course, as it lies upon the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. The limb having been carried away from the chest, an incision is made parallel to and a little behind the anterior fold of the axilla. On cutting through the deep fascia, the vein is exposed, and by drawing this downwards the artery is brought into view, surrounded by the nerves from the brachial plexus. The ligature is to be passed from within outwards. Another and simpler mode of operating is that recommended by Malgaigne, according to which the incision is made along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and the median nerve then serves as a guide to the artery, while the vein is not exposed. In the rest of its course the artery is so deeply placed, and in such close relation with the vein and nerves, that an operation on the third part of the sub- clavian is both easier and more successful.