27 STERNUM. THE RIBS. The mesosternum is marked on its anterior surface by three slight transverse elevations at the lines of junction of its four component parts. Its posterior surface is comparatively smooth. Each lateral margin pre- sents five notches for the reception of costal cartilages, and a small surface superiorly, which, with the similar depression on the presternum, forms the notch for the second costal cartilage. The notches for the third, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages are opposite the lines of junction of the four segments of the body of the sternum ; those of the sixth and seventh are placed close together on the sides of the inferior segment, that for the seventh being completed by the ensiform process. The metastermun, ensiform process, or xiphisternum, is a thin spatula- like process projecting downwards between the cartilages of the seventh ribs. It is subject to frequent varieties of form ; being sometimes bent forwards, sometimes backwards, often forked, and sometimes perforated. The sternum is subcutaneous in the middle line, forming the floor of the sternal groove between the pectoral muscles which cover the lateral portions of the anterior surface. The upper end is marked by the deep suprasternal notch, and the ensiform process lies at the bottom of the infrasternal depres- sion, the latter being due to the prominence of the mesosternum and the seventh costal cartilages beyond the surface of the xiphisternum. The sternum is subject to many varieties of form. It is not unfrequently much shorter than usual, and indented at its lower part, as occurs especially from the pressure of the cobbler’s last. Occasionally the lower part of the body is perforated by the so-called foramen sternale (fig. 26, E.) ; and in rare cases the sternum has been found divided to a greater or less extent, constituting the malformation of fissura stemi, and connected in some instances with ectopia cordis. (Case of E. Groux, described by Allen Thomson in Glasgow Med. Journ., 1858 ; Gibson and Malet, Journ. Anat. xiv. 1; Turner, il>. 103.) Two small nodules of bone, ossa sujirasternalia, have been found in some rare cases at the sides of the incisura close to the clavicular notches, united by cartilage and ligament to the sternum. Their position is indicated by the aste- risks (**) in figure 26, E. They appear to be vestiges of the episternal bone of monotremata and lizards, the lateral parts of which are represented normally in the interarticular fibro-cartilages of the stemo-clavicular articulations. (Breschet, Ann. des Sc. Nat., 2nd series, x. 91 ; Luschka, “ Die Halsrippen und die Ossa suprastemalia,” Vienna, 1859; Gegenbaur, Jenaische Zeitschr. i. 175. Bardeleben, Jenaische Sitzungsberichte, 1879, s. 146.) THE RIBS. The ribs (costce), twelve in number on each side, constitute a series of arched and highly elastic bones, which extend outwards and forwards from the vertebral column, and form the lateral walls of the thorax. Their anterior extremities give attachment to cartilaginous prolongations—the costal cartilages, the first seven pairs of which pass forward to "the sternum. On this account the first seven pairs of ribs are called sternal, and the remaining five pairs asternal ribs. Of these asternal ribs each of the upper three has its cartilage attached along its superior border to the cartilage of the rib above it, while the two last, being entirely free from such attachment, are called floating ribs. General characters of the ribs.—These are best marked in the ribs near the middle of the series. The posterior extremity is thickened, and js termed the head or capitulum; it presents a superior and an inferior oblique articular surface for articulation with the bodies of two vertebrae, and, between them, a slight ridge, to which the interarticular ligament is attached. Ac a little distance from the head, and separated