ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 482 short flexor of the toes and the abductor of the little toe, being placed along the line separating the middle from the external portion of the plantar fascia, and covered by that membrane. The remainder of the artery, which turns inwards and forms the plantar arch, is placed deeply against the interosseous muscles, and is covered by the flexors of the toes, the lumbricales muscles, and the adductor hallucis. Branches.—A. In its course to the fifth metatarsal lone, the external plantar artery gives off (a) two or three internal calcaneal branches, which pierce the origin of the abductor hallucis muscle and ramify over the heel, anastomosing with the external calcaneal branches of the peroneal artery ; (l) numerous muscular branches ; (c) small offsets which ascend over the outer border of the foot and anastomose with the tarsal and metatarsal branches of the dorsal artery ; and (cl) cutaneous offsets, which appear in the groove between the middle and outer divisions of the plantar fascia. B. From the plantar arch are given off the following branches :— (a) From the concavity of the arch small offsets pass backwards to the articulations of the tarsus, and anastomose with the deep branches of the internal plantar artery. (b) The posterior perforating branches, three in number, pass upwards Fig. 285.—Deep view of the arteries in the sole of the right foot (from Tiedemann). g All tlie muscles have been removed : a, calcaneal tuberosity ; b, internal cuneiform bone ; a, to c, long, and d, short plantar ligament ; e, prolongation of the tibialis posticus tendon ; f, one of the sesamoid hones of the great toe ; 1, posterior tibial artery dividing into the plantar arteries; 2, 2', external plantar artery ; 2', 2", plantar arch ; 3, 3', internal plantar artery ; 3", its communication with the internal digital artery of the great toe ; 4, branches of the internal plantar to the inner side of the foot; 5, 5', first digital branch ; 6, second digital artery ; 6', its division between the fourth and fifth toes ; 7, third digital artery ; 7', its distribu- tion to the third and fourth toes ; 8, fourth digital artery ; 8', its distribution to the second and third toes ; 9, fifth digital artery ; 9', its distribution to the first and second toes ; 10, internal digital branch of the great toe ; at the upper numbers, 6, 7, and 8, the posterior perforating branches are partially seen ; at 2", the dorsal artery of the foot (in this instance of small size) is seen joining the plantar arch ; 11, and 12, calcaneal branches of the external plantar and posterior peroneal arteries. through the back part of the three outer inter- metatarsal spaces, between the heads of the dorsal interosseous muscles, and on reaching the dorsum of the foot inosculate with the interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery, (c) The digital branches (v) are four in number. The first digital artery inclines outwards from the outermost part of the plantar arch, over the fifth metatarsal bone, and runs along the outer border of the little toe. The second digital artery passes forwards along the fourth intermetatarsal space, and near the cleft