BONES OF THE THORAX. 26 II.—THE THORAX. The skeleton of the thorax consists of the dorsal vertebrae already described, the sternum, the ribs, and the costal cartilages. THE STERNUM OR BREAST-BONE. The sternum is situated in the median line at the fore part of the thorax. It is connected with the rest of the trunk by the cartilages of the first seven pairs of ribs, and gives attachment to the clavicles. It con- sists originally of six segments. The first of these usually remains distinct up to advanced life, and is called the manubrium or pre- sternum : the succeeding four are united into one in the adult, and form the body or mesosternum: the sixth generally remains cartilaginous for some years after birth, and sometimes partially so even to advanced age, constituting the ensiform process, or metasternum ; in middle life it is most frequently ossified and united by bone to the body. The sternum is flattened from before backwards, and presents a slight vertical curve with the convexity in front. It is of unequal width, being broad at the upper part of the presternum, considerably narrower at the lower end of that portion and in the first segment of the mesosternum, somewhat wider near the lower end of that portion, and finally narrowed near the junction with the metasternum. It consists of light cancellated tissue, with a thin covering of compact bone. The presternum is the thickest part of the bone. Its anterior surface presents a slight median elevation, its posterior is smooth and somewhat Fig. 22.—The sternum of a middle-aged MAN. (A. T.) 1. A, from before ; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, & 7, the articular surfaces for the corresponding costal cartilages ; 8, manubrium still sepa- rate from the body ; 9, body ; 10, ensiform process, osseous, and united to the body ; 11, interclavicular notch ; 12, clavicular notch. B, the same sternum viewed from the right side, showing the general convexity of the bone forwards. The different facets of articulation with the clavicle and costal cartilages will be distinguished by their position in comparing the figure B. with A. concave. Its upper border is di- vided into three deep notches ; the middle one is named the incisura semilunaris, or interclavicular notch; the lateral ones form two depressed articular surfaces directed upwards, outwards and backwards, for articulation with the clavicles, clavicular notches. Each lateral border presents superiorly close to the clavicular notch, a rough tri- angular surface, which unites with the cartilage of the first rib. Below this the bone slopes inwards, and at its inferior angle presents a small surface, which with a similar one on the mesosternum forms a notch for the cartilage of the second rib. The lower margin is straight and united by cartilage to the upper margin of the mesosternum.