NEUROLOGY. •—*— The nervous system consists of central and peripheral parts. To the first belong those large masses of nervous substance forming the brain and spinal cord, or great cerebro-spinal centre ; and to the second belong the various nervous cords, cerebro-spinal and sympathetic, which are distributed in different parts of the body. Along with these the nervous system also includes the organs of the external senses and the ganglia. The description of the cerebro-spinal centre and of the organs of the senses will be given in the Second Volume. The present section includes the descriptive anatomy of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic nerves, and of the ganglia connected with them. THE CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. The nerves springing directly from the great cerebro-spinal centre constitute a series of symmetrical pairs, of which a certain number issue from the cranium through different apertures in its base, and are thence named cranial. The next following nerve passes out between the occipital bone and the atlas, and the remaining thirty nerves all issue below the corresponding segments of the vertebral column. The first is sometimes distinguished by the name of suboccipital, but to the whole series of thirty-one nerves the name of sjnnal will be here given. CRANIAL NERVES. The cranial nerves, besides being distinguished by numbers in the order of their passage through the dura mater lining the cranium, have likewise received other names, according to the place or mode of their distribution, or their functions. The number of the cranial nerves has been variously stated as nine or as twelve by Willis and Scemmerring respectively. Of the nine pairs of cranial nerves distinguished by Willis, or twelve as enumerated by Scemmerring, the first six and the last correspond, but the seventh of Willis is divided into two by Scemmerring, viz., the seventh and the eighth pairs, or the facial and the auditory nerves, while the eighth of Willis falls, in the more modern arrangement, into three distinct nerves, the ninth, tenth, and eleventh, or the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, as in the following table :—