Fig. 258. RADIAL ARTERY. 425 Fig. 258.—Arteries op the outer and back PART OF THE ARM AND HAND, SUPERFICIAL VIEW (from Tiedemanu). I a, deltoid muscle ; 5, outer head of triceps ; r, biceps ; d, bracliialis anticus ; e, supinator longus; f, extensor carpi radialis longior ; g, brevior ; k, extensor communis digitorum and extensor minimi digiti; i, extensor carpi ulnaris ; Jc, anconeus ; /, flexor carpi ulnaris ; m, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; n, extensor primi internodii pollicis ; o, extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; 1, 1, cuta- neous and posterior terminal branches of the su- perior profunda artery, the latter descending to anastomose with the branches of the interosseous and radial recurrent arteries ; 2, above the posterior annular ligament, points to the posterior branch of the anterior interosseous artery ; 3, posterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery; 4, radial artery, taking its course between the external lateral liga- ment of the wrist-joint and the tendons of the ex- tensor muscles before passing near 5, between the two heads of the abductor indicis ; beneath the extensor tendons is seen the posterior carpal arch, giving in this case the three dorsal interosseous arteries ; 6, the inner dorsal artery of the thumb; 7, the outer dorsal artery of the index finger ; 7', the metacarpal branch of the ulnar artery and between 7, and 7', the remaining dorsal digital arteries, formed by the bifurcation of the dorsal interosseous arteries. carpal bones, where it turns forwards into the palm of the hand, by passing between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. As it turns round below the end of the radius the artery is deeply seated, but afterwards it comes nearer to the surface. It is accompanied by two veins and by some filaments of the external cutaneous nerve, and is crossed by sub- cutaneous veins and by branches of the radial nerve. Branches.—1. The posterior radial carpal is a small but constant branch. It arises beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and running inwards on the back of the carpus anastomoses with the posterior ulnar carpal branch, completing the posterior carpal arch, from which the dorsal interosseous arteries of the third and fourth spaces spring. It anasto- moses, also, with the terminal branch of the anterior interosseous of the forearm. 2. The first dorsal interosseous artery, arising beneath the extensor ten- dons of the thumb, frequently in common with the posterior carpal branch, passes