AZYGOS VEINS. 514 seldom with the suprarenal or spermatic. It enters the thorax through the left crus of the diaphragm and ascends upon the spine, in front of the lower intercostal arteries, to the level (most frequently) of the ninth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses to the right behind the aorta and opens into the large azygos vein. It receives the intercostal veins from the lower three or four spaces of the left side, and some small branches from the mediastinum. The left upper azygos vein (v. hemiazygos accessoria) is formed by the union of the veins from four or five intercostal spaces, generally from the fourth to the seventh or eighth inclusive, and it receives also some mediastinal branches and the left bronchial vein. It communi- cates above with the superior intercostal vein, and below it opens into the large azygos vein, either separately or in common with the left lower azygos vein. The intercostal veins are single vessels lying in the intercostal spaces above the arteries, which they follow closely in their ramifications. They are joined by large posterior branches, collecting blood from the muscles of the back, the dorsal spinal plexus and the spinal canal, and by small twigs from the bodies of the vertebrae, before terminating in the superior intercostal or azygos veins. The vein from the first space passes forwards in company with the superior intercostal artery, and opens into the innominate vein or one of its branches, most frequently the vertebral (B. G. Morison, Journ. Anat., xiii., 346). The Ironchial veins are of small size and return only a portion of the blood conveyed to the lungs by the bronchial arteries. They are formed by the union of branches from the larger bronchial tubes, as well as from the other structures of the lung, and issue at the hilus of that organ, where they receive other twigs from the lower part of the trachea and from a fine plexus in the posterior mediastinum. The vein of the right side opens into the large azygos vein near its termination ; that of the opposite side ends in the left upper azygos vein. The minute veins from the smaller bronchial tubes, and some of those from the larger ones, terminate in the pulmonary veins, as do also several branches from the mediastinal plexus (Zuckerkandl, Wiener Sitzungsber., 1881). As the azygos veins communicate below with the inferior vena cava or some of the branches of that vessel, while they terminate above in the superior cava, they form a supplementary channel by which blood can be conveyed from the lower part of the body to the heart in cases of obstruction of the inferior trunk. There is generally a valve, most frequently consisting of two segments, in the arch or at the upper end of the ascending portion of the large azygos vein, but in the majority of cases it is not sufficient to close the vessel completely. In rare instances only is a valve present in the left lower azygos vein at or near its termi- nation. The intercostal veins from the upper spaces have valves more frequently than not at their openings into the azygos veins; in the lower' intercostal veins valves are seldom present (Gruber, Arch. f. Anat., 1866). Varieties.—The azygos veins of the left side present many varieties both in the number of intercostal veins which each receives, and in the manner in which they are connected with the large azygos vein. Two or three of the middle intercostal veins of the left side frequently unite into a short intermediate trunk, which passes directly into the large azygos vein ; or the left upper azygos vein may be absent, the intercostal veins which usually form that vessel being continued across the spine and opening independently into the main stem. The