LYMPHATICS OP THE LOWER LIME. 529 In very rare cases the duct is double throughout, the two canals opening into the right and left innominate veins (W. Krause); or it is represented by two vessels which are placed one on each side of the aorta, and unite at the root of the neck into a single trunk (Kuhn, W. Turner). Cruikshank, in one case, found the duct “ triple or nearly so.” In the neck, the thoracic duct often divides into two or three branches, which in some instances terminate separately in the great veins, but in other cases unite first into a common trunk ; less frequently one of the branches passes across to the veins of the right side of the neck. In the lower animals the termination of the thoracic duct in the veins of the right side as well as of the left is not uncommon. As a rare occurrence the trunk has been found passing upwards through the posterior mediastinum on the left side of the aorta (Henle, G. D. T.). Several cases are recorded in which, the viscera not being transposed, the thoracic duct terminated in the veins of the right side, with a right aortic arch (Allen Thomson), with a root-origin of the right subclavian artery (Fleischmann, Todd. J. M. Brown), or with a normal arrangement of the great arteries (Morrison Watson). In two instances the thoracic duct has been observed entering the large azygos vein (Wutzer, Arnold). (See Vol. II., p. 207.) RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCT. The right lymphatic duct is a short vessel, about a line or a little more in diameter, and from a quarter to half an inch in length, which receives the lymph from the absorbents of the right upper limb, the right side of the head and neck, the right side of the chest, the right lung and the right half of the heart, and from part of the upper surface of the liver. It enters obliquely into the receding angle formed by the union of the right subclavian and internal jugular veins, where its orifice is guarded by a double valve. The vessels which usually unite to form this trunk, however, frequently terminate independently in the large veins. LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER LIMB. The lymphatics of the lower limb are arranged in a superficial and a deep series. Those of the superficial series, together with the super- ficial lymphatics of the lower half of the trunk, converge to the super- ficial inguinal glands, with the exception of a few which dip into the popliteal space. Those of the deep series enter the deep inguinal glands. The popliteal lymphatic glands, usually very small, and four or five in number, surround the popliteal vessels, and are imbedded in a quantity of loose fat. They receive from below the deep lymphatics of the leg, and a few superficial ones which accompany the short saphenous vein ; their efferent vessels ascend with the femoral vein to the groin. The superficial inguinal glands vary much in number, amounting’ on an average to eight or ten : they are divisible into a superior or oblique and an inferior or vertical set. The oblique glands lie in the line of Poupart’s ligament and receive lymphatics from the integument of the trunk, gluteal region, perineum, and genital organs ; the vertical glands surround the upper end of the long saphenous vein, and extend two or three inches downwards along the course of that vessel; they re- ceive the superficial lymphatics of the limb. The efferent vessels of the superficial inguinal glands perforate the fascia, a large number passing through the saphenous opening, and some enter the deep inguinal glands, while others are continued upwards with the deep vessels into the abdomen, and join the lymphatic glands which lie along the external iliac artery. VOL. I. M M