G44 NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Another cutaneous branch, often arising in conjunction with the foregoing, extends along the outer side of the leg to the middle or lower part, sending offsets both backwards and forwards. Musculo - cutaneous nerve.—The musculo-cutaneous nerve de- scends between the peronei muscles and the long extensor of the toes, and reaches the surface by perforating the fascia in the lower part of the leg on the anterior aspect. It then divides into two branches, distinguished as external and internal, which proceed to the toes. The two branches sometimes perforate the fascia at different spots. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches are given to the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis. (b) Cutaneous branches given off near the primary division are distributed to the lower part of the leg. (c) The internal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, passing- forwards along the dorsum of the foot, furnishes one branch to the inner- side of the great toe, and another to the contiguous sides of the second and third toes. It also gives offsets which extend over the inner ankle and side of the foot. This nerve communicates with the long saphenous nerve on the inner side of the foot, and with the anterior tibial nerve between the first and second toes. (d) The external branch, smaller than the internal, descends over the foot towards the fourth toe, which, together with the continguous borders of the third and fifth toes, it supplies with branches. Cutaneous nerves, derived from this branch, spi-ead over the outer ankle and the outer side of the foot, where they are connected with the short saphenous nerve. The dorsal digital nerves are continued on to the last phalanges of the toes. The number of toes supplied by each of the two divisions of the musculo-cutaneous nerve is liable to vary; together, these nerves commonly supply all the toes on the dorsal aspect, excepting the outer side of the little toe, which receives a branch from the short saphenous nerve, and the adjacent sides of the great toe and the second toe, to which the anterior tibial nerve is distributed : with this latter branch, however, it generally communicates. Anterior tibial nerve.—The anterior tibial nerve, commenc- ing between the fibula and the peroneus longus, inclines obliquely beneath the long extensor of the toes to the fore part of the inter- osseous membrane, and there comes into contact with the anterior tibial vessels ; with these vessels it descends to the front of the ankle- joint, where it divides into an external and an internal branch. The nerve reaches the anterior tibial artery about the junction of the upper with the second fourth of the leg, and is thence placed in front of the vessels as far as the ankle, at which spot it is usually on their outer side. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches.—In its course along the leg, the anterior tibial nerve gives offsets to the adjacent muscles, namely, the tibialis anticus, the extensor longus digitorum, the extensor proprius hallucis, and the peroneus tertius. (b) An articular filament for the ankle-joint arises from the lower part of the nerve. (c) The external branch of the anterior tibial nerve turns outwards over the tarsus beneath the short extensor of the toes ; and, having