245 QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS. for its upper two-tliirds, from the outer surface of the bone, in front of and below the attachment of the vastus externus, and from the lower half of the external intermuscular septum. The fibres are directed downwards, those of the outer and lower part also considerably forwards, and they end on a superficial aponeurotic lamina which forms the deeper portion of the common tendon. The crureus consists of four or five superposed fleshy layers, the origins of which form a series of transverse arches with intervening bare spaces on the front of the femur; and between this portion of the muscle and the vastus internus the greater part of the internal surface of the bone is also free from muscular attach- ment.* The common tendon, in which the four portions of the quadriceps muscle terminate below, is broad and flat, and is inserted into the fore part of the upper border of the patella, a few fibres being prolonged over the anterior surface of the bone into the superficial portion of the ligamentum patellae. Subcrureus. This name is given to one or two thin bands of muscular fibres which might be regarded as the deepest layer of the crureus. It arises from the lower part of the anterior surface of the femur, and is inserted below by scattered fibres into the upper part of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Eolations.—The rectus is covered at its upper end by the tensor vaginse femoris, iliacus and sartorius muscles, and the acetabular tendon lies beneath the gluteus minimus. In the rest of its extent it is covered only by fascia. It rests upon the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, and the deep portions of the quadriceps : behind it pass also the external circumflex artery and branches of the anterior crural nerve. The vastus externus forms the large mass on the outer side of the thigh. It is covered by the fascia lata and the aponeurotic insertions of the gluteus maximus and tensor vaginse femoris, and its anterior border is concealed by the rectus. It rests upon the crureus, and the branches of the external cir- cumflex artery and anterior crural nerve entering it pass between the two. The vastus internus is partly covered by the sartorius and rectus; between these muscles it is superficial, forming the prominence at the lower part of the inner side of the thigh. The crureus is almost completely covered by the rectus and vasti, only a small portion being superficial on the outer side, behind the free posterior border of the vastus externus. Beneath the common tendon is a bursa which communicates in most cases with the cavity of the knee-joint. Varieties.—The parts of the quadriceps muscle are not liable to many anoma- lies. The rectus has been found with an additional origin from the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; or, again, its acetabular origin may be wanting. The vasti muscles are sometimes bilaminar, a condition which is normal in many birds. The subcrureus frequently consist of two separate bundles. Nerves.—The psoas magnus receives small branches from the lumbar plexus. The iliacus, quadriceps extensor cruris and sartorius are supplied by the anterior crural nerve. Actions.—The ilio-psoas muscle, the flexor of the hip-joint, bends the thigh on the body, or the body on the thigh, according as either of these is the more fixed. The psoas also assists in bending the lumbar portion of the spine, either forwards or laterally. The sartorius produces flexion of the hip and knee-joints, accompanied by eversion of the thigh : it also assists in rotating inwards the leg. It has been supposed to be the muscle principally concerned in producing the posture assumed by the tailor in sitting, and hence its name ; but Duchenne denies that this is its special action. * A detailed and accurate description of the anatomy of the quadriceps extensor muscle is given by W. R. Williams, Journ. Anat. xiii. 204.