OCULOMOTOR NERVE. 551 separated from the rest, and issues more externally from the anterior surface of the crus. Speedily becoming firm and round, the nerve is directed forwards, as well as somewhat outwards, between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries to the outer side of the posterior elinoid process, a Fig. 315.—View prom above op the motor nerves Fig. 315. op the eyeball and its muscles (after Hirsch- feld and Leveillo, altered). (A. T.) The ophthalmic division of the fifth pair has been cut short ; the attachment of the muscles round the optic nerve has been opened up, and the three upper muscles turned towards the inner side, their anterior parts being removed ; a part of the optic nerve is cut away to show the inferior rectus ; and a part of the sclerotic coat and cornea is dissected off showing the iris, ciliary muscle, and choroid coat, with the ciliary nerves. a, upper part of the internal carotid artery emerg- ing from the cavernous sinus ; b, superior oblique muscle ; b', its anterior part passing through the pulley ; c, levator palpebrie superioris; d, superior rectus ; c, internal rectus ; /, external rectus ; /', its upper tendon turned down ; (J, inferior rectus ; h, insertion of the inferior oblique muscle. II, optic commissure ; II', part of the optic nerve entering the eyeball; III, common oculomotor ; IV, trochlear nerve ; V, large root of the fifth ; V', the small or motor root ; VI, abducent nerve ; 1, upper division of the third nerve, giving twigs to the levator palpebne and superior rectus; 2, branches of the lower division supplying the internal and inferior recti muscles ; 3, the long branch of the same nerve proceeding forwards to the inferior oblique muscle, and close to the number 3, the short root of the ciliary ganglion : this ganglion is also shown, receiving from behind its long root, which has been cut short, and giving forward some of its ciliary nerves, which pierce the sclerotic coat; 3', marks the termination of some of these nerves in the ciliary muscle and iris after having passed between the sclerotic and choroid coats ; 4, the distribution of the trochlear nerve to the upper surface of the superior oblique muscle ; C, the abducent nerve passing into the external rectus. little anterior to which it penetrates the layer of dura mater forming the outer boundary of the cavernous sinus. Contained within this mem- brane, it continues its course forwards to the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure, and there divides into two parts, upper and lower, which enter the orbit between the heads of the external rectus muscle, and are separated from each other by the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. As the third nerve lies in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, it is connected by slender filaments with the cavernous plexus of the sympa- thetic, and it is said to receive also a small branch from the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. The upper, the smaller part, is directed inwards over the optic nerve to the superior rectus muscle of the eye and the elevator of the eyelid, to both of which muscles it furnishes branches. The lower and larger portion of the nerve divides into three branches; of these one reaches the inner rectus ; another the lower rectus ; and