ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 458 (e) Tlie artery of the corpus cavernosum (art. profunda penis) (v) is slightly the larger of the two terminal branches of the .pudic trunk. It penetrates the inner side of the crus penis, and is continued forwards in the centre of the corpus cavernosum to the anterior extremity ot that body, giving off in its course numerous offsets to the erectile tissue. This drawing is made from a preparation upon a modification of the plan of R. Quain’s 61st and 62nd Plates. The right side shows a superficial, the left a deeper view. a, anus, with a part of the integument surround- ing it; b, left half of the bulb of the urethra, ex- posed by the removal of the bulbo-cavernosus mus- cle ; c, coccyx ; d, right tuberosity of the ischium ; e, e, superficial perineal fascia; /, fat occupying theright ischio-rectal fossa; gluteus maximus mus- cle ; 1, placed on the right transversus iierinei muscle, points to the su- perficial perineal artery as it emerges in front (in this case) of the muscle ; 1', on the left side, placed on the surface of the tri- angular ligament, points to the superficial perineal artery cut short; 2, on the right ischio-cavernosus muscle, points to the super- ficial perineal artery and nerves passing forwards; 2', on the left side, the same vessel and nerves divided ; 3, on the right half of the triangular liga- ment, points to the trans- verse perineal artery ; 4, on the left tuberosity of the ischium, points to the pudic artery deep in the ischio-rectal fossa; 5, 5', inferior hemorrhoidal branches of the pudic arteries and nerves; 6, on the left side, placed in a recess from which the inferior layer of the triangular ligament has been removed, in order to show the continuation of the pudic artery, its branch to the bulb, and one of Cowper’s glands. Fig. 273. Fig. 273.—Dissection op THE PERINEUM IN THE MALE. (A. T.) i (/) The dorsal artery of the penis (v) ascends to the upper surface of that organ between the crus and the pubic symphysis. After piercing the suspensory ligament, the artery runs forwards, between the median dorsal vein and the corresponding nerve, to the neck of the penis, where it ends in offsets to the glans and the prepuce. It supplies the integument of the penis, and several branches pass through the fibrous sheath of the corpus cavernosum to the spongy tissue in its interior, and