CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. 616 SYNOPSIS OP THE CUTANEOUS DISTRIBUTION OP THE CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. 1. In the head.—The face and head in front of the ear are supplied with sensory nerves from the fifth cranial nerve. The ophthalmic division supplies branches to the forehead, upper eyelid, and clorsum of the nose. The superior maxillary division supplies the cheek, side of the nose, upper lip, lower eyelid, and the region behind the eye, over the temporal fascia. The inferior maxillary division supplies the chin and lower lip, the pinna of the ear on its outer side, and the integument in front of the ear and upwards on the side of the head. The head behind the car is mainly supplied by the great occipital branch of the posterior division of the second spinal nerve, but above the occipital protuberance there is also distributed the branch from the posterior division of the third spinal nerve ; and in front of the area of the great occipital nerve is a space supplied by anterior divisions of spinal nerves, viz., the back of the pinna of the ear, together with the integument behind, and that in front over the parotid gland, which are supplied by the great auricular nerve ; while between the area of this nerve and the great occipital the small occipital nerve intervenes. The auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve also is distributed on the back of the car. 2. In the trunk.—The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves supply an area extending on the back from the vertex of the skull to the buttock. This area is narrow in the neck ; it is expanded in the dorsal region, extending over the back of the scapula; and on the buttock the dis- tribution of the lumbar nerves reaches to the great trochanter. The area supplied by the cervical plexus, besides extending upwards, as already mentioned, on the lateral part of the skull, stretches over the front and sides of the neck, and the upper part of the shoulder and breast. The area of the anterior divisions of the dorsal and first lumbar nerves meets superiorly with that of the cervical plexus, and posteriorly with that of the posterior divisions of the dorsal and lumbar nerves. It passes down over the haunch and along by the outer part of Poupart’s ligament, and includes part of the scrotum and a small portion of the integument of the thigh internal to the saphenous opening. The perineum and penis are supplied by the pudic nerve ; the scrotum by branches of the pudic, inferior pudendal, and ilio-inguinal nerves. 3. In the upper limb.—-The shoulder, supplied superiorly by the cervical plexus, receives its cutaneous nerves interiorly, as far as the insertion of the deltoid, from the circumflex nerve. The arm internally is supplied by the intercosto-humcral nerve and the nerve of Wrisberg. The inner and anterior part is supplied by the internal cutaneous nerve ; and the posterior and outer parts by the internal and external branches of the musculo-spiral nerve. The forearm, anteriorly and on the outer side, is supplied by the external cutaneous ; on its outer and posterior aspect, superiorly by the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, and interiorly by the radial branch of the same nerve. On the inner side, both in front and behind, is the internal cutaneous nerve, and interiorly are branches of the ulnar. On the bach of the hand are the radial and ulnar nerves, the radial