MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. 342 forwards from the central point of the perineum, and the two muscles cover the bulb and the adjacent part of the corpus spongiosum urethrae. The fleshy fibres arise from the central point of the perineum and from the median raphe, and are directed outwards and forwards on the surface of the corpus spongiosum. The greater number ascend between the crus penis and the corpus spongiosum, and end on the dorsum of the latter body by joining those of the opposite side in a strong aponeurosis. At the fore part a small portion of the muscle passes to the outer side of the corpus cavernosum, where it is attached in front of the ischio- cavernosus, sending also a tendinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis (Kobelt); and the posterior fibres, shorter than the anterior, are inserted by side of the bulb into the under surface of the triangular ligament. Tlie fibres which invest the most prominent part of the bulb are more or less distinct from those contiguous to them, and have been described by Kobelt as forming a separate muscle, to which he has given the name compressor Jiemis- phccrium hdbi. The fibres of this muscular slip are connected by a small tendon, above the urethra, with the corresponding part of the opposite side. The constrictor or compressor urethrae muscle consists of fibres attached on each side to the ischio-pubic rami, as well as to the adjacent surfaces of the fascial layers between which it is enclosed, and ex- tending for the most part transversely across the subpubic arch, some of them in front of, and others behind, the membranous part of the urethra, for which they form a kind of sphincter. In some bodies a median tendinous raphe divides the muscle more or less completely into lateral halves. The hindmost fibres of this muscle are sometimes described separately under the name of transversus perinei profundus. While the greater number of the muscular fibres contained between the layers of the triangular ligament pass transversely from side to side as above stated, there are usually to be recognized, especially in well-developed subjects, other collections which take different directions. Thus, one set of fibres passes obliquely from behind forwards and inwards ; another set surrounds the urethra circularly; and on the inferior surface of the constrictor muscle a longitudinal slip of variable breadth extends from apex to base of the triangular ligament. All these bundles are, however, intimately connected together, and pass gradually into one another, so that they cannot properly be regarded as forming distinct muscles. The longitudinal fasciculi described by James Wilson (Med. Chir. Trans, i., 170), as passing from the pelvic surface of the pubis on each side, and meeting behind the membranous part of the urethra, have not been generally recognized by succeeding anatomists. (On the arrangement of the constrictor urethrae muscle, as well as of the other muscles and fasciae of the perineum, consult Henle, Eingeweidelehre,” and M. Holl, Arcliiv f. Anatomie, 1881, 225). Relations.—The constrictor urethrae is separated from the levator ani by the upper layer, and from the superficial muscles of the fore part of the perineum by the lower layer of the triangular ligament. Embedded in the substance of the muscle on each side at its origin from the bone are the pudic vessels and the dorsal nerve of the penis, and more mesially are the vessels of the bulb and the gland of Cowper. Within the constrictor muscle the membranous part of the urethra is surrounded by involuntary muscular fibres which form part of its proper wall, and will therefore be referred to in the description of the repro- ductive organs in Vol. II. Nerves. — The external sphincter receives offsets from the fourth sacral nerve and the inferior hannorrhoidal branch of the pudic nerve ; the levator ani