ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 629 surface, and from the most internal of these a filament can be traced, under cover of the anterior border of the vastus interims muscle, to the suberureus and the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. (h) The nerve of the vastus interims runs downwards with the internal saphenous nerve beneath the aponeurosis covering the femoral vessels, giving several branches to the upper part of its muscle ; it enters the latter about the middle of the thigh, and from its lower end a consider- able twig is continued to the knee-joint, in company with the deep branch of the anastomotic artery. Fig. 353. Fig. 353.—Deep nerves op the anterior and inner part of the thigh (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld ancl Leveille). | 1, anterior crural nerve ; 2, branches to the iliacus muscle ; 3, branch to the lower part of the psoas ; 4, internal and middle cutaneous nerves, divided to show the deeper branches ; 5, 6, nerves to the pectiueus ; 7, cutaneous filament from the last; 8, inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve : 9, branch to the rectus ; 10, branch to the vastus externus ; 11, branch to the vastus in- terims; 12,internal saphenous nerve; 13, its patellar branch ; 14, its continuation down the 'leg ; 15, obturator nerve ; 16, branch to the adductor longus; 17, branch to the adductor brevis ; IS, branch to the gracilis; from this a filament is prolonged downwards, to unite with the plexus formed by the union of branches from the internal cutaneous and internal saphenous nerves ; 19, deep branch of the obturator nerve to the adductor magnus ; 20, lumbo-sacral cord; 21, its union with the first sacral nerve ; 22, 22, lumbar and sacral parts of tlie sympathetic nerve ; 23, external cutaneous nerve. (i) Internal saphenous nerve.—The in- ternal or long saphenous is the largest of the branches of the anterior crural nerve. It is deeply placed as far as the knee, but is subcutaneous in the rest of its extent, In the thigh, it accompanies the femoral vessels, lying at first to their outer side, but lower down gradually crossing over the artery, and passing beneath the same aponeurosis. When the vessels pass through the opening in the adductor magnus muscle into the popliteal space, the saphenous nerve separates from them, and is continued beneath the sartorius muscle to the inner side of the knee ; here, having first given off, as it lies near the inner condyle of the femur, a branch which is distributed over the front of the patella, it becomes subcutaneous by piercing the fascia at the lower border of the sartorius. The nerve then accompanies the saphenous vein along the inner side of the leg, and, passing in front of the inner ankle, terminates on the inner side of the metatarsal region of the foot. In the leg it is connected with the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve.