410 AllTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. pressure should be directed outwards, while over the lower end of the vessel the pressure should be made from before backwards. The brachial artery lies beneath the integument and fascia of the arm as far as the bend of the elbow, where it sinks deeply in the interval between the pronator teres and supinator longus muscles, and is covered by the semilunar fascia of the biceps. It rests at first, for a short distance, on the long head of the triceps, the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery intervening, and then on the inner head of the same muscle ; at the middle of the arm it crosses the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and in the rest of its course it lies on the brachialis anticus. On its outer side it is in apposition first with the coraco-brachialis, and afterwards and for the greater part of its length with the biceps, the inner border of one or both muscles overlapping it to a greater or less extent according to the muscular development of the individual. Fig. 249.—Superficial dissection of the BLOOD-VESSELS AND NERVES AT THE FRONT OF the elbow (from R. Quain). -J a, two brandies of the internal cutaneous nerve; a' a". descending twigs of the same nerve ; b, placed over the biceps near its insertion and close to the external cutaneous nerve ; b\ branches of this nerve descending along the outer part of the forearm ; 1, placed on the fascia of the arm near the bend of the elbow, above the place where it has been opened to show the lower part of the brachial artery with its venae comites, of which one is entire, marked 2, and the other has been divided ; +, is placed between the artery and the median nerve ; 3, basilic vein ; 3', 3', ulnar veins ; 4, cephalic vein ; 4', radial vein ; 5, 5, median vein ; 3', 5, median-basilic vein ; 4', 5, median-cephalic vein. Relation to veins.— Venae comites are in close contact with the brachial artery, short transverse branches of communi- cation passing from one to another, so as at many points to encircle it. The basilic vein is placed to the inner side of the artery, but is separated from it by the deep fascia of the limb in the lower half or more, according to the level at which the vein perforates that membrane ; and at the bend of the elbow the median-basilic vein crosses over the artery, the semilunar fascia of the biceps lying between them. Relation to nerves.—The median nerve descends in contact with the artery, lying on its outer side in the upper half of the arm, directly in front of it below the middle, and on the inner side at the elbow. The large internal cutaneous nerve accompanies the artery, being placed over or to the inner side of the vessel, until it pierces the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar nerve lies on the inner side of the artery as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; and the musculo-spiral nerve is behind it for a short distance at its upper end. Branches.—In addition to the four named branches which are described