355 VARIETIES OF THE AORTIC ARCII. Branches.—The branches given off from the arch of the aorta are five in number. Two of these, named the coronary arteries of the heart, comparatively small, arise from two of the sinuses of Valsalva, and are distributed to the walls of the heart. The other three are large primitive trunks, which supply the head and neck, the' upper limbs, and, in part, the thorax, and usually arise from the transverse part of the arch, in the following order :—first, the innominate or brachio-cephalic artery ; second, the left common carotid ; and third, the left subclavian artery. The origin of the left carotid artery is usually nearer to the inno- minate artery than it is to the subclavian artery of its own side. Varieties.—It will be proper in this place to refer to the varieties which affect the whole aorta, as well as to those of the pulmonary arteries. The former may be distinguished, according as they occur in the whole length of the vessel, or belong to one or other of its parts, those which are very frequent in the arch being especially deserving of notice. These last are of peculiar interest, but as the full explanation of their mode of formation is connected with the history of fcetal development, the reader is referred to the chapter on that subject for farther elucidation of the outline of the nature of the varieties which is intro- duced in this place. 1. The aorta may vary in its position and extent. Thus, the height to which the arch rises in the upper part of the chest is found to be subject to variation to the extent of one or two vertebras; so that while in some instances the summit of the arch has been on a level with the top of the sternum, in other cases it it has been as low as the fifth dorsal vertebra. The distance to which the aorta extends downwards depends on the seat of its division into the common iliac trunks, which frequently varies to the extent of a lumbar vertebra, so that the place of division may be as low down as the fifth or as high up as the third. In rare cases the division occurs still higher. The position of the aorta with reference to the middle line or vertebral column is also subject to some variation, but such deviation to the side is more frequently the result of pathological changes than of congenital malformation. A very remarkable malformation of the aorta consists in the greater or less division of the vessel through a part or the whole of its channel into two closely united tubes, by a median septum running through the cylindrical tube from before backwards, or slanting from side to side, as in the cases observed by Cruveilhier, Vrolik, Schroder Van der Kolk, and Allen Thomson, which, when not due to pathological changes, may admit of explanation on the supposition of the fusion of the original double embryonic aorta having remained incomplete. 2. The Varieties of the Stems, or main trunks of the aorta and pulmonary artery, are intimately connected and usually associated with malformations of the heart, and frequently with the persistence of the ductus arteriosus. These first parts of the two great arteries, specially enclosed by the pericardium, are derived from the arterial bulb of the fcetal heart, and are liable to variations which may be traced to deviations from the natural mode of their septal division, and of their union with the left or right ventricles of the heart respectively. Thus, these two arterial trunks may be transposed, or each one may be connected with the ventricle to which it does not naturally belong, i.e., the pulmonary artery with the left, and the aorta with the right ventricle. Or the arterial trunks may communicate together more or less freely by deficiency of the septum between them. Or one of the vessels may be nearly or entirely obliterated ; while the other, from unnatural openings left between them, serves as the channel for the stream of blood belonging to both vessels. Or the aorta and pulmonary arteries may be entirely united in one simple stem in connection with a simple heart similar to that of fishes. 3. The Varieties in the Aortic Arch itself, along with which must be included those of the ductus arteriosus, are intimately connected with the mode of develop- ment of the fourth and fifth foetal branchial arteries. The natural aortic arch of man, and of all mammalia, is a left one produced by the persistence and develop- a A 2