524 VEINS OF THE FOETAL SYSTEM. nected with the obturator vein of the same side by a considerable branch which ascends on the back of the pubis towards the thyroid foramen. The prostatic plexus is formed mainly by the breaking up of the divisions of the dorsal vein of the penis, but it receives also smaller branches from the gland and the neighbouring muscles. It surrounds the base of the prostate, most thickly on its anterior and lateral aspects, and communicates below with the tributaries of the pudic vein, while above it is continuous with the vesical plexus. In old persons these veins generally become much enlarged. In the female, a similar plexus surrounds the upper part of the urethra and receives the dorsal vein of the clitoris. The vesical plexus consists of vessels which ramify over the whole of the bladder external to its muscular coat, being particularly large and numerous towards the base of the organ, where they are closely connected with the prostatic and haemorrhoidal plexuses in the male, and with the vaginal plexus in the female. The hccmorrhoidal plexus consists of large and copiously anastomosing veins in the wall of the lower part of the rectum, immediately under- neath the mucous membrane. From it proceed superior, middle, and inferior hccmorrhoidal veins accompanying the arteries of the same name, and it communicates freely with the plexuses in front of it. The superior haemorrhoidal vein being a branch belonging to the portal system, the haemorrhoidal plexus forms a very free communication between the portal and general venous systems. The vaginal plexus, surrounding the vagina principally in its lower part, communicates freely with the haemorrhoidal and vesical plexuses. The uterine plexus pours its blood in greatest part into the ovarian veins, and is not considerable except during pregnancy. THE PORTAL SYSTEM OP VEINS. The portal vein differs from other veins of the body in being subdivided into branches at both its extremities. The branches of origin, by the union of which it may be said to be formed, are the veins of the chylopoietic viscera (stomach, intestine and pancreas) and of the spleen; the other branches, or those of distribution, undergoing ramification in the substance of the liver, convey to the capillaries of that organ the blooi collected in the main trunk. This blood, to- gether with that of the hepatic artery, after having served for the secretion of the bile and the nourishment of the liver, is withdrawn from that organ by the hepatic veins, and carried by them into the inferior vena cava. There are no valves in the portal vein or in any of its tributaries. The portal vein or vena portse is about three inches in length. Commencing behind the head of the pancreas by the junction of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins, it passes upwards and a little to the right, behind the first part of the duodenum and then between the layers of the small omentum, to the transverse fissure of the liver. In the omentum it is placed close behind the hepatic artery and the bile duct, and is accompanied by filaments of the hepatic plexus of nerves, as well as by numerous lymphatics, all these being surrounded by the loose connective tissue constituting the capsule of Glisson.