24 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. a cervical vertebra corresponds in series to the first part of a rib ; as is illustrated by the separate ossification of that piece of bone in the seventh cervical vertebra in man, and by the occasional occurrence of a more fully developed cervical rib in that situation. The vascular passage in the dorsal region is between the neck of the rib and the vertebra. In the lumbar vertebrae the transverse processes are elongated laterally, and at their root two other processes become apparent, viz., the mam- millary or mctapophysis directed preaxially, and the accessory or anapophysis, directed postaxially. Several circumstances in the anatomy both of the bones and muscles, as well as the form and position of occasional or supernumerary lumbar ribs, seem to indicate that the outer part of the lumbar transverse processes is serially homologous with the first part of the ribs, but so intimately combined with both capitular and tubercular processes, and the part lying between them, as to leave no arterial passage ; but a groove on the upper side is regarded by some as an indication of the place of separation. In the sacral part of the column still greater departure from the form of the transverse process of the upper vertebras takes place by the large development and ossific union of the lateral parts. Throughout the whole five vertebras recognised as sacral in man, this may be looked upon as occurring to some extent in portions of the bones which are serially homologous with the combined capitular and tubercular processes ; but in the upjser sacral vertebras, another lateral element appears to be interposed be- tween that combined transverse process and the iliac surface of articulation, con- stituting the greater portion of the large lateral mass of the sacrum. This element is looked upon by some as serially homologous with part of a rib. (Retzius, Muller’s Arch., 1849 ; Muller, “ Vergl. Anat. der Myxinoiden Owen, “ On the Archetype, &c., of the Vert. Skeleton ; ” Aug. Muller, Muller's Arch., 1853 ; Humphry, “ Treatise on the Human Skeleton ; ” Goodsir, in Edin. New Phil. Journ., 1857 ; Cleland, in Nat. Hist. Rev., 18G1 and 1863; Huxley, Hunterian Lect., Brit. Med. Journ., 1869 ; St. George Mivart, Linn. Trans., 1870, and “ Elemen- tary Anatomy,” 1873 ; Flower, “ Osteology of the Mammalia,” 1870 ; Gegenbaur, “ Grundziige der Vergl. Anat.” 1870.) With the exception of the anterior arch of the atlas already referred to, there are no parts developed in the human skeleton corresponding to the hypa- pophyses which occur in connection with the vertebral column of animals, such as the “ chevron ” bones below the caudal vertebrae of cetacea, and the haemal arches enclosing the main artery of fishes. Fig. 21.—Views op the different vertebra from above to illustrate their HOMOLOGIES AND SOME OF THEIR VARIETIES. (A. T.) 1, atlas ; 2, axis ; 3, sixth cervical; 4, seventh cervical with supernumerary ribs; 5, middle dorsal ; 6, first dorsal, with costal arch and sternum attached ; 7, third lumbar ; 8, first lumbar with supernumerary ribs ; 9, fifth lumbar ; 10, first sacral; 11, first sacral vertebra, presenting the lumbar form on the right side, as in the oblique pelvis; 12, fourth sacral vertebra in a young subject; 13, four coccygeal vertebral. In the several figures the parts are indicated by letters as follows, viz., in 1, s, spine ; n, neural arch ; d, the space occupied by the odontoid process, or displaced body ; 7i, anterior or precentral arch, ar, superior articular process : in 2, c", odontoid process ; a?’, superior articular surface ; z' inferior articular process : in 3, c, centrum ; z, z', superior and inferior articular processes: in 4, t, t, transverse processes ; v, v, vertebrar- terial foramina ; co, moveable right supernumerary or cervical rib ; x, with a dotted line marking the place where an anckylosed rib on the left side may be considered tp be super- added to the transverse process of the vertebra: in 5, t, transverse process with costo-trans- verse facet; cc, costo-central facet: in 6, v, vascular interval ; ct, costo-transverse, and cc, costo-central articulations ; co, first rib : in 7, m, mammillary, and a, accessory tubercles ; t, transverse process : in 8, co, co* 1, left and right supernumerary ribs : in 10, l, the lateral mass : in 11, V, place of the lateral mass, remaining undeveloped in this instance : in 12, tl, the transverse process and lateral mass which unite with the corre- sponding parts above ;/, /', anterior and posterior sacral foramina thus formed : in 13, c, the centrum, which alone remains in the last coccygeal vertebra.