326 MUSCLES OF TIIE ABDOMEN. Varieties.—The external oblique varies chiefly in the number of its attach- ments to the ribs. Absence of the highest or lowest digitation is not uncommon ; on the other hand, one or more slips may be doubled,'most frequently those from the eighth and ninth ribs ; or an additional slip may arise from the lumbar aponeurosis below the last rib. Besides the connection with the pectoralis major, some fibres are occasionally continued into the serratus magnus. The muscle has also been found double, the deeper portion passing from the ninth, tenth and eleventh ribs to the crest of the ilium (Macalister). The obliquus interims abdominis muscle, placed under cover of the external oblique, arises by fleshy fibres from the external half or two- thirds of the deep surface of Poupart’s ligament; by short tendinous a, anterior superior iliac spine ; b, great trochanter ; c, pubic spine ; d, posterior layer of the lumbar fascia ; VI and XII, sixth and twelfth ribs ; 1, lower part of the pectoralis major, where it is attached to the aponeuro- sis of the external oblique; 2, 2, lower digitations of the serratus mag- nus ; 3, 3, costal attachments of the latissimus dorsi; 3', its iliac attach- ment ; 4, trapezius; 5, 5, divided attachments of the external oblique, left in connection with the ribs ; 5', 5', aponeurosis of the external oblique divided in front of the rectus, where it joins the sheath ; 6, internal ob- lique at its middle ; 6', 6', line where its aponeurosis divides to form the sheath of the rectus; 4- + + XII, its attachment, to the lowest ribs ; 6", conjoined tendon ; 7, sartorius ; 8, rectus femoris ; 9, tensor vaginse femoris ; 10, gluteus medius; 11, gluteus maximus. fibres from the iliac crest for two-thirds of its length ; and by some fleshy fibres again from the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle (lumbar fascia), in the angle between the crest of the ilium and the outer margin of the erector spinas muscle. From those attachments the fibres, spreading over the side of the abdomen, pass to be inserted as follows : the most posterior fibres pass upwards and forwards to the lower margins of the cartilages of the last three ribs, where they are inserted in the same plane with the internal intercostal muscles ; those arising from the anterior part of the Fig. 215. Fig. 215.—Lateral view op tiie MUSCLES OP THE ABDOMEN, THE INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE HAVING BEEN EXPOSED BY THE REMOVAL OF THE EXTERNAL OBLIQUE (modi- fied from Henle). (A. T.) A