i OD FEMORAL HERNIA. superiorly, but embraces the vessels closely below. It is continuous above with the lining fasciae of the abdomen, namely, with the transversalis fascia in front, and the iliac fascia behind. On removing its anterior wall, the sheath is found to be divided into three compartments, by fibrous septa ; the outer compartment containing the femoral artery, the middle, the femoral vein, and the inner being occupied merely by lymphatic vessels, a gland, and some fat. This inner compartment is about half an inch long, and from its being the passage through which the hernia descends, has been called the femoral or crural canal. The upper extremity of the canal presents a rounded aperture towards the cavity of the abdomen, usually of sufficient size to admit the point of the forefinger ; its size, however, varies in different persons, and it is larger in the female than in the male. This aperture is called the crural or femoral ring, and is covered when viewed from the inside by peritoneum, and beneath that by the subperitoneal connective tissue, which here forms the crural septum (Cloquet). On the outer side lies the external iliac vein covered by its sheath, but on the other three sides the ring is bounded by very unyielding structures. In front are the femoral or crural arches, the superficial being formed by Poupart’s ligament, and the deep by a strong bundle of fibres, which, springing from the under surface of Poupart’s ligament outside the femoral vessels, extends across the fore part of the femoral sheath and, widening at its inner end, is fixed to the ilio-pectineal line behind Gimbemat’s ligament. Behind the ring is the hip-bone covered by the pectineus muscle and the pubic layer of the fascia lata; and on the inner side are several layers of fibrous struc- ture connected with the ilio-pectineal line—namely, Gimbernat’s ligament, the conjoined tendon of the two deeper abdominal muscles, and the trans- versalis fascia, with the deep femoral arch. The last-mentioned structures —those bounding the ring at the inner side—present more or less sharp margins towards the opening. Relations to blood-vessels.—Besides the femoral vein, the posi- tion of which has been already stated, the epigastric artery is closely connected with the ring, lying above its outer side. It not unfrequently happens that an aberrant obturator artery descends into the pelvis at the outer side of the ring, or immediately behind it; and in rarer cases this vessel passes over the ring to its inner side (p. 455). A pubic vein, also, has occasionally the same course ; and the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery will be generally found ramifying on the superior aspect of Gimbemat’s ligament. In the male, the spermatic vessels are separated from the canal only by the femoral arches. Descent of the hernia.—When a femoral hernia is being formed, the protruded part is at first vertical in its course ; but at the lower end of the canal it bends forwards through the saphenous opening, and, as it increases in size, ascends over the iliac part of the fascia lata and the femoral arch. Within the canal the hernia is very small, being con- stricted by the unyielding structures which form that passage ; but when it has passed beyond the saphenous opening, it enlarges in the loose fatty layers of the groin ; and, as the tumour increases, it extends outwards in the groin towards the anterior superior iliac spine. Coverings of the hernia.—The coverings of a femoral hernia in order from within outwards are, the peritoneum (which forms the sac) ; the septum crurale and the sheath of the femoral vessels. These two structures combined constitute a single very thin covering, known as