PELVIC FASCIA. 337 line iii front of the bladder and between the bladder and the rectum, it thus forms a fibrous partition which completely separates the pelvic cavity above from the perineal space below. Certain parts of this fascia, generally not very well defined, however, are referred to as ligaments of the viscera with which they are connected. The best marked of these are the anterior true ligaments of the bladder or pubo- prostatic ligaments, a narrow but strong band on each side, consisting in great part of involuntary muscular fibres, and passing from the lower Fig. 220. Fig. 220.—Diagram of a sagittal section of the pelvis, a little to the left of THE MESIAL PLANE, TO SHOW THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE PELVIC FASCIA, &C. (Gr.D.T.) J a, a, section of sacrum anil coccyx ; b, section of pubis ; c, bladder ; d, prostate gland, above which are the vesicula seminalis and vas deferens cut obliquely ; e, corpus spongio- sum urethra, covered by the bulbo-cavernosus muscle ; /, rectum ; ;/, external sphincter; x , levator ani; 1, anterior true ligament of bladder; 2, 2', sheath of prostate, continuous below with the upper layer of the triangular ligament of the urethra ; the hinder part of the sheath is continued upwards between the vesiculse seminales and the rectum; 3, inferior layer of the triangular ligament, between which and the superior layer are seen in section the constrictor urethra muscle and Cowper’s gland ; 4, 4, peritoneum. The thick dotted line indicates the level at which, to the left of the section, the ascending layer of the recto-vesical fascia is attached to the bladder and rectum. The thinner dotted lines A, A', and 13, B', represent the situation of the sections shown in figs. 219 and 221. part of the pubis to the anterior surface of the prostate and the neck of the bladder. Between the two ligaments the fascia is thin and depressed, forming a small pouch which is occupied by some loose fat and areolar tissue. On the outer side of the anterior ligament, the part of the fascia VOL. I. 7,