398 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches to the sterno-mastoid, subclavius, and other neighbouring muscles. (6) A suprasternal twig crosses the inner end of the clavicle and is distributed to the skin at the upper and mesial part of the chest. (c) The supraacromial branch passes outwards through the attach- ment of the trapezius to reach the surface of the acromion, on which it ramifies, anastomosing with offsets from the acromio-thoracic artery. (d) A small subscapular branch, given off as the artery passes over the notch, anastomoses with the posterior scapular and subscapular arteries in the subscapular fossa and substance of the subscapularis muscle. (e) Branches enter the dorsal scapular muscles, the hone and shoulder- joint. Varieties.—The suprascapular artery has in some cases been observed to spring independently from the second or third part of the subclavian, or to arise from that vessel by a common trunk with the transverse cervical, or more rarely with the internal mammary. It has also been found to proceed from the axillary artery, and from the suhscapular branch of that vessel. This artery is sometimes very small, in which case the deficiency is generally supplied by a branch of the posterior scapular. 0. The transverse cervical artery, the third branch of the thyroid axis, passes outwards a short distance above the clavicle, and therefore higher than the suprascapular artery. It crosses over the scaleni muscles and the brachial plexus, sometimes passing between the nerves of the latter, and is crossed by the omo-hyoid muscle. Beneath the upper margin of the trapezius, and near the outer edge of the levator anguli scapulae, it divides into two branches, the superficial cervical and the posterior scapular. The superficial cervical artery (v), ascends beneath the trapezius, and dis- tributes branches to that muscle, the levator anguli scapulae, and splenius muscles, as well as to the cervical glands and the integument. When the posterior scapular arises separately from the subclavian, the name superficial cervical may be given to the remaining part of the transverse cervical artery. The posterior scapular artery (iv), whether arising from the transverse cervical artery or directly from the subclavian, passes backwards to the upper angle of the scapula, under cover of the levator anguli scapulae, and then, changing its direction, runs downwards beneath the rhomboid muscles, as far as the inferior angle of that bone. It anastomoses freely on both surfaces of the scapula with the divisions of the suprascapular and subscapular arteries ; and supplies branches to the rhomboids, serratus magnus, and latissimus dorsi muscles, communicating at the same time with the posterior branches of some of the intercostal arteries. Near the upper angle of the scapula this artery gives off a considerable supraspinous branch, which ramifies on the surface of the supraspinatus and supplies that muscle together with the overlying portion of the tra- pezius and skin. Varieties.—The transverse cervical branch of the thyroid axis not unfre- quently consists solely of the superficial cervical artery ; and it often happens that the vessel derived from the thyroid axis is very small, and represents only in part the superficial cervical artery, a large vessel being given off from the second or third part of the subclavian and dividing near the levator anguli scapulae into two branches, of which one ascends and represents the larger por-