OPHTHALMIC NERVE. 5 oo surface. On its inner side the ganglion is joined by filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic nerve, and, according to some anato- mists, it furnishes from its back part filaments to the dura mater. From the fore part, or convex border of the Gasserian ganglion, proceed the three large divisions of the nerve. The highest (first or ophthalmic trunk) enters the orbit; the second, the superior maxillary nerve, is continued forwards to the face between the orbit and month ; and the third, the inferior maxillary nerve, is distributed chiefly to the external ear, the tongue, the lower teeth, the face below the mouth, and the muscles of mastication. The first two trunks proceed exclusively from the ganglion and are entirely sensory, while the third or inferior maxillary trunk, derived principally from the ganglion, has associated with it also the whole of the fibres of the motor root, and thus distributes both motor and sensory branches. I.—OPHTHALMIC NERVE. The ophthalmic nerve, or first division of the fifth, the smallest of the three offsets from the Gasserian ganglion, is flattened from side to side, and measures about an inch in length. It is directed forwards and up- wards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, in company with the third and fourth nerves, towards the sphenoidal fissure, where it ends in branches which pass through the orbit to the surface of the head and to the nasal fossa. In its course forwards, the ophthalmic nerve is joined by filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. Branches.—A small recurrent branch arises from the ophthalmic trunk near the Gasserian ganglion and, running backwards across the fourth nerve, to which it generally adheres closely for some distance, ramifies between the layers of the tentorium. Farther forwards the ophthalmic nerve gives off three slender offsets which join respectively the third, fourth, and sixth nerves as they enter the orbit (L. liosenthal, Wiener Sitzungsber., 1878). The terminal branches resulting from the division of the ophthalmic nerve close to the orbit are the nasal, which is usually the first to arise and springs from the inner and lower part of the trunk, the frontal and the lachrymal. These branches are transmitted separately through the sphenoidal fissure, and are continued through the orbit (after supplying some filaments to the eyeball and the lachrymal gland) to their final dis- tribution in the nose, the eyelids and the integument of the forehead. Lachrymal nerve.—The lachrymal nerve (fig. 81G, 3) is external to the frontal at its origin, and is contained in a separate sheath of dura mater. In the orbit it passes along the outer part, above the external rectus muscle, to the outer and upper angle of the cavity. Near the lachrymal gland, the nerve has a connecting filament with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve; and when in close apposition with the gland, it gives many filaments to that body and to the con- junctiva. Finally, the lachrymal nerve penetrates the palpebral ligament externally, and ends in the upper eyelid, the terminal ramifications being joined by twigs from the facial nerve. Varieties.—The lachrymal nerve is occasionally smaller than usual, being re- inforced by a twig from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary, and it has been seen replaced entirely by an offset of the latter nerve (Turner, Hyrtl.). On the other hand, the lachrymal nerve has been found sending an offset through