SPINAL NERVES. 596 generally none from the external branches of the same nerves, and vice versa. Lumbar nerves.—The external brandies enter the erector spinae7 and give filaments to the intertransverse muscles. From the upper three, cutaneous nerves are supplied ; and from the last, a fasciculus descends to the corresponding branch of the first sacral nerve. The cutaneous nerves given from the external branches of the first three lumbar nerves pierce the fleshy part of the ilio-costalis and the aponeu- rosis of the latissimus dorsi: they cross the iliac crest near the edge of the erector spinae, and terminate in the integument of the gluteal region. One or more of the filaments may be traced as far as the great tro- chanter of the femur. The internal branches wind backwards in grooves close to the articular processes of the vertebrae, and sink into the multifidus spinae muscle. Sacral nerves.—The posterior divisions of these nerves, except the last, issue from the sacrum through its posterior foramina. The first three are covered at their exit from the bone by the multifidus spinas muscle, and bifurcate like the posterior trunks of the other spinal nerves ; but the remaining two, which continue below that muscle, have a peculiar arrangement, and require separate examination. The internal branches of the first three sacral nerves are small, and are lost in the multifidus spinae muscle. The external branches of the same nerves are united with one another, and with the last lumbar and fourth sacral nerves, so as to form a series of anastomotic loops on the upper part of the sacrum. From these, branches are then directed outwards to the cutaneous or posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where, covered by the glutens maximus muscle, they form a second series of loops, and end as cutaneous nerves. The latter pierce the great gluteus muscle in the direction of a line from the posterior superior iliac spine to the tip of the coccyx. They are commonly two in number—one is near the lower part of the sacrum, the other by the side of the coccyx. All are directed outwards over the great gluteal muscle. In six dissections by Ellis this arrangement was found to be the most frequent. The variations to which it is liable are these :—the first nerve may not take part in the formation of the second series of loops, and the fourth may be associated with them. The posterior divisions of the last two sacral nerves are smaller than those above them, and are not divided into external and internal branches. They are connected with each other by a loop on the back of the sacrum, and the lowest is joined in a similar manner with the coccygeal nerve ; one or two filaments from these sacral nerves are distributed in the neighbourhood of the coccyx. Coccygeal nerve.—The posterior division of the coccygeal nerve is very small, and separates from the anterior primary portion of the nerve in the sacral canal. It is joined by a communicating filament from the last sacral nerve, and ends in the integument over the posterior surface of the coccyx.