EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 465 the abdominal wall, and anastomosing with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. Two veins accompany the circumflex iliac artery ; these unite below into a single vessel, which crosses the external iliac artery about three quarters of an inch above Poupart’s ligament, and joins the external iliac vein. Varieties.—Size.—In those rare cases in which tlic principal vessel of tlie lower limb is continued from the sciatic branch of the internal iliac artery, the external iliac is much diminished in size, and ends in the profunda artery of the thigh. Branches.—The usual number of two principal branches of the external iliac artery may be increased by the separation of the circumflex iliac into two branches, or by the addition of a branch usually derived from another source, such as the internal circumflex artery of the thigh, or the obturator artery, or very rarely the deep femoral artery. The deep epigastric artery occasionally arises higher than usual, as at an inch and a half, or even two inches and a half, above Poupart’s ligament; and it has been seen to arise below that ligament from the femoral, or from the deep femoral artery. The epigastric frequently furnishes the obturator artery as already described (p. 454), and a few examples are recorded in which the epigastric artery arose from an obturator furnished by the internal iliac artery. In a single instance the epigastric artery was represented by two branches, one arising from the external iliac, and the other from the internal iliac artery (Lauth, in Velpeau’s “ Medecine Operatoire,” v. ii., p. 452). Some combinations of the epigastric with the internal circumflex, or with the circumflex iliac, or with both those vessels, have been noticed. The deep circumflex iliac artery sometimes deviates from its ordinary position, —arising at a distance not exceeding an inch above Poupart’s ligament. Devia- tions in the opposite direction are not so frequent, but it is occasionally found arising below the ligament, from the femoral artery. SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The external iliac artery is usually tied about midway between its commence- ment and the origin of the epigastric artery. It may be exposed by a curved incision, about four inches in length, commencing about an inch above and a little outside the middle of Poupart’s ligament, and terminating about an inch above the anterior superior iliac spine. After dividing carefully the integument, the abdominal muscles, and transversalis fascia, the peritoneum (to which the spermatic vessels adhere) is raised from the iliac fossa, and the artery is found at the margin of the pelvis, lying along the inner border of the psoas muscle. The vein is close to the artery, on its posterior and inner aspect. In order to pass the ligature, it is necessary to divide the layer of subperitoneal tissue which binds the vessel down to the iliac fascia. Collateral circulation.—After ligature of the external iliac artery, blood is conveyed to the lower end of that vessel through the anastomoses of the epi- gastric with the internal mammary, intercostal, and lumbar arteries, and of the circumflex iliac with the lumbar and ilio-lumbar arteries; to the femoral trunk also by the anastomoses of the branches of the deep femoral artery with,the branches of the internal iliac, viz., the internal circumflex with the obturator and sciatic arteries, the external circumflex with the gluteal, and the perforating arteries with the sciatic. FEMORAL ARTERY. The femoral artery is that portion of the artery of the lower limb which lies in the upper three-fourths of the thigh,—its limits being marked above by Poupart’s ligament, and below by the opening in the great adductor muscle, after passing through which the artery receives the name of popliteal. VOL. I. n ix