528 THORACIC DUCT. large azygos vein. The duct runs upwards, gradually inclining to the left, and at the same time diminishing slightly in size, until it reaches Fig. 304. j 13 Fig. 304.—Sketch op the thoracic duct with THE PRINCIPAL SYSTEMIC VEINS. (A. T.) J The full description of this figure will he found at p. 491. 10, 10, thoracic duct; the lower number is close to the receptaculum chyli; 6, on the left subclavian vein, marks the termination of the duct in the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugu- lar veins ; 5, on the right subclavian vein, indi- cates the similar termination of the right lymphatic duct. the fourth dorsal vertebra, where, passing behind the arch of the aorta, it becomes applied to the left side of the oesophagus lying between that tube and the left sub- clavian artery. Continuing its course into the neck to the level of the seventh cervical vertebra, it changes its direction and turns outwards, at the same time arching downwards and forwards so as to describe a curve over the apex of the pleura, and then terminates on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, in the angle formed by the union of that vein with the subclavian. The diminution in the size of the duct as it ascends is such that at the fifth dorsal vertebra it is often only two lines in diameter, but above this poiut it again enlarges. The duct is generally waving and tortuous in its course, and is often alternately contracted and enlarged at irregular intervals. The thoracic duct has numerous double valves at short intervals through- out its whole course, the constrictions of their attachments giving a nodulated appearance to the vessel. They are more numerous in the upper part of the duct. At the termination of the duct in the veins there is a valve of two segments, so placed as to allow the contents of the duct freely to pass into the veins, but effectually preventing the reflux of either chyle or blood into the duct. 14*= *14' Varieties.—The thoracic duct is not always a single trunk throughout its whole extent; it is frequently divided for some distance into two vessels which afterwards unite, especially in the lower part of its course (normal accord- ing to Teichmann); sometimes it separates into three divisions, or even presents a plexiform arrangement, for a short distance.