39 TEMPORAL BONE. The order surface is in its greatest extent vertical, with a slight con- vexity, and forms part of the temporal fossa. From its lowest part a long process, the zygoma, takes origin. Fig. 34.—The eight tem- poral BONE FROM THE INNER SIDE. (A. T. ) | 2, 3 x , 10, as in the pre- ceding figure. 11, cerebral surface of the squamous por- tion ; 11 x , the squamous edge ; 12, inner surface of the mastoid portion ; 13, sigmoid groove of the lateral sinus— the figure is placed at its upper part, and close to the mastoid foramen; 14, apex of the petrous bone ; 15,. in- ternal auditory meatus ; 16, scale of bone covering the aqueduct of the vestibule; 17, is above the aqueduct of the cochlea ; 18, superior pe- trosal groove ; 19, eminence of the superior semicircular canal; 20, hiatus Fallopii. Fig. 34. The zygoma, or zygomatic process, is connected with the lower and outer part of the squamous portion, and is of considerable breadth at its base, which projects outwards. It then turns forwards, becomes narrower, and is twisted on itself so as to present outer and inner surfaces and upper and lower borders. The superior margin is thinner, and prolonged further forward than the inferior. The bevelled extremity is serrated, and articulates with the malar bone. At its base the zygoma presents two roots; the anterior, continuous with the lower border, is a broad convex ridge, directed inwards on the under aspect of the bone; the posterior, prolonged from the upper border, passes backwards above the external auditory meatus, marks the line of division between the squamous and mastoid portions of the bone, and turning upwards posteriorly forms the boundary of the temporal fossa. At the point of division of the two roots is a slight tubercle, which gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the lower jaw. Between the two roots is the glenoid fossa, a considerable hollow, elongated from without inwards, and divided into two parts by the nearly transverse fissure of Glaser. The posterior part of the glenoid fossa is formed by the tympanic plate of the petrous division of the bone, is non-articular, and lodges a portion of the parotid gland; the anterior part of the fossa, together with the cylindrical elevation, articular eminence, formed by the anterior root of the zygoma in front of it, is coated with cartilage, and forms the concavo-convex surface for articulation with the lower jaw; the articular cavity is bounded behind by a small conical process which descends in front of the external auditory meatus, and is known as the postglenoid process. In front of the articular eminence, and separated from the temporal surface by a slight ridge, is a small triangular area which enters into the zygomatic fossa. The mastoid portion is rough externally for the attachment of muscles, and is prolonged downwards behind the aperture of the ear into a nipple-shaped projection—the mastoid process. This process has on its