412 ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. beneath the hinder part of the deltoid with the posterior circumflex artery ; and another of considerable size descends in the inner head of the triceps, and joins in the anastomoses above the elbow-joint. Much reduced in size as it arrives at the outer side of the humerus, the artery ends by dividing into two branches; the one of which, much the smaller, passes on with the musculo-spiral nerve through the external intermuscular septum, into the interval between the supinator longus and bracliialis anticus muscles, and anastomoses with the recurrent branch of the radial artery ; while the other descends along the back of the external intermuscular septum, and anastomoses behind the outer condyle of the humerus with the posterior interosseous recurrent artery, and across the back of the bone with the inferior profunda and anasto- motic arteries (fig. 253, p. 417). Small twigs are also given to the skin along with the external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nerve. 2. The inferior profunda artery, of small size, arises from the brachial artery about the middle of the arm, and is directed to the back part of the inner condyle of the humerus. It descends in company with the ulnar nerve, lying behind the internal intermuscular septum on the inner head of’the triceps muscle, to which it gives branches, and it ends by anastomosing with the posterior recurrent branch of the ulnar artery, and with the anastomotic branch of the brachial. 3. The medullary artery of the humerus is a small branch given off by the brachial about the middle of the arm, or by one of its collateral branches. It inclines downwards, enters the canal in the humerus near the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and is distributed in the interior of the bone. 4. The anastomotic artery is a very constant branch of moderate size. Arising from the brachial artery about two inches above the bend of the elbow, it is directed backwards and inwards on the brachialis anticus muscle, above the inner condyle of the humerus, and, after per- forating the intermuscular septum, turns outwards behind the bone, under cover of the triceps muscle, to form with the superior profunda an arch across the humerus, immediately above the olecranon fossa. In front of the humerus the anastomotic artery furnishes a branch which ramifies beneath the pronator teres, and anastomoses with the anterior ulnar recurrent branch. Behind the inner condyle another offset joins with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and several branches are given to the joint and the muscles. Varieties.—From their comparative frequency, and surgical interest, the peculiarities of the brachial artery, especially those which affect its trunk, deserve particular attention. Course.—The brachial artery sometimes, though rarely, descends, accompanied by the median nerve, towards the inner condyle of the humerus, and regains its usual position at the bend of the elbow by passing forwards underneath a fibrous arch, from which the pronator teres in these cases arises, and which descends to the inner condyle from the occasional prominence called the supracondylar process. This variety resembles the condition normally existing in the Felidae and many other animals, in which the brachial artery and median nerve are directed forwards and outwards through a supracondylar foramen (see p. 91). Division.—As an extremely rare condition, the artery has been found dividing near its commencement into two vessels, which unite again near the elbow, form- ing a single trunk from which the radial and ulnar arteries are given off in the usual manner. The most frequent change from the ordinary arrangement of the brachial artery is connected with its division into terminal branches.