OSSIFICATION OF THE OCCIFITAL AND FRONTAL BONES. 69 absent, some of the latter arising early in life, and others being formed at a comparatively late but variable period. The ocoipital bone at birth consists of four separate pieces—a basilar, a tabular, and two condylar parts, united by intervening cartilage. The lines of junction of the basilar and condylar parts pass through the condyles near their anterior extremities; those of the condylar and tabular parts extend outwards from the posterior margin of the foramen magnum. The basilar (basioccipital) and con- Fig. 56.—Ossification of the occipital bone (R. Quain). A, in a foetus of 10 weeks (from Meckel); a, tabular part; 1 & 2, lower and upper pairs of centres; b, lower part or basilar and condylar portions : ossific centres are seen in the condylar portions. B, occipital bone at birth ; a, tabular part, in which the four centres have become united into one, leaving fissures between them ; b, b, condylar portions; c, basilar portion. Fig. 56. B dylar parts (exoccipitals) arise each from one osseous nucleus, which appears in the seventh or eighth week.* In the tabular part there appear, a few days earlier, usually four nuclei, an upper and a lower pair; these speedily unite, but leave fissures running in from the upper and lateral angles, which remain for some time after birth. The upper pair of these differ from the other centres of this bone in being deposited in membrane, and whilst the lower portion of the tabular part is the proper supraoccipital element, the upper represents the interparietal bone of many animals ; it occasionally happens that this remains distinct in the human skull, the upper part of the occipital squama being separated from the rest by a suture running transversely from one lateral angle to the other, and by no means unfrequently a partial division exists, by persistence of the lateral fissures, which may even simulate fracture. The osseous union of the supra- and exoccipitals, beginning in the second or third, is completed in the fourth year; that of the basi- and exoccipitals, beginning in the third or fourth, is completed in the fifth or sixth year. The basioccipital is united to the basisphenoid by intervening cartilage up to about the twentieth year, after which ossific union begins and is completed in one or two years. The parietal bone is ossified from a single nucleus, which appears in the situation of the parietal eminence about the seventh week. The eminence is very Fig. 57.—Frontal bone of a foetus shortly before birth (R. Quain). a k b indicate the two portions of the bone, in each of which the radiation of bony spicula from the frontal eminence is seen. conspicuous in the young bone, and gives a marked character to the form of the skull for a number of years in early life. The frontal bone is ossified from two nuclei which appear one on each side above the orbital arch, about the seventh week. At birth the bone consists of two separate lateral portions, which meet in In the descriptions of the mode of ossification of the bones, weeks and months refer always to periods of fcetal life. Fig. 57.