438 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN! lobule, and enters the liver at the left end of the transverse fissure. The ramifications of the hepatic artery in the liver accompany the di- visions of the portal vein and hepatic duct. Varieties.—The hepatic artery sometimes arises from the superior mesenteric artery, or from the aorta itself. The left hepatic artery is not unfrequently de- rived from the coronary artery of the stomach, occasionally from the superior mesenteric, rarely from the splenic. Accessory hepatic arteries are sometimes met with, generally coming from the coronary artery, less frequently from the superior mesenteric, the aorta, the right renal, or the inferior mesenteric. The hepatic artery has been found to furnish a phrenic branch. The cystic artery has been seen arising from the superior mesenteric. C. The splenic artery (ii), in the adidt the largest branch of the coeliac axis, supplies the spleen, and in part the stomach and pancreas. Waving and often tortuous in its course, it passes along the upper border of the pancreas, and divides near the spleen into several branches, which are distributed to that organ and to the left portion of the stomach. Branches.-—(a) Pancreatic branches, variable in size and number, are given off while the artery is passing along the pancreas, the body and tail of which they supply. One of larger size not unfrequently runs from left Fig. 264. Fig. 264.—Tiie arteries or the stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and spleen (from Tiedemann). ^ The stomach and liver are turned upwards ; the jejunum is divided at its commence- ment : a, right lobe of the liver; l>, left lobe; c, cardiac orifice of the stomach ; d, pylorus ; e, first part, /, second part, and g, third part of the duodenum ; h, commence- ment of the jejunum ; i, head, and k, body of the pancreas ; l, spleen ; 1, 1, right and left inferior phrenic arteries passing from the aorta upon the crura of the diaphragm ; 2, placed on the aorta close to the coeliac axis; 3, 3', coronary artery; 4, common hepatic; 4', 4', proper hepatic artery and its right branch ; 4", cystic artery ; 5, 5, right gastro- epiploic, and 6, superior pancreatico-duodenal, the two divisions of the gastro-duodenal; 7, splenic artery; V, splenic branches ; 7", one of the vasa brevia to the stomach ; 8, 8, left gastro-epiploic artery, uniting with the right on the great curvature of the stomach ; 9, trunk of the superior mesenteric artery, giving off the inferior pancreatico- duodenal ; 10, inferior mesenteric.