518 INFERIOR VENA CAVA. the left side, and then a valve will generally be found in the renal vein not more than a quarter of an inch from the entrance of the former vessel (Kivington, Journ. Anat., vii., 163). 3. The renal or emulgent veins are short but wide vessels which issue from the hilus of the kidney, and pass inwards in front of the corresponding arteries to join the vena cava nearly at a right angle, the left usually a little higher up than the right. The vein of the left side is also longer than the right, and passes in front of (rarely behind) the aorta. The renal veins receive small branches from the suprarenal bodies, and the left is joined also by the spermatic and capsular veins of the same side. Valves are occasionally present in the renal veins or in some of their branches (Rivington). 4. The capsular or suprarenal veins are, relatively to the organs from which they arise, of considerable size. On the right side the vein ends in the vena cava, on the left in the renal vein. 5. The hepatic veins return the blood conveyed to the liver by the portal vein and the hepatic artery. They converge to the groove in which the inferior vena cava lies, and are collected mainly into two or three large trunks which open obliquely into that vessel. There is also a variable number of smaller branches which collect the blood from the adjacent portions of the gland and pass directly into the vena cava. The hepatic veins have no valves ; but, owing to their oblique entrance into the vena cava, a semilunar fold is formed at the lower border of the orifice of each vein. 6. The inferior phrenic veins are two in number on each side, and follow the course of the arteries of the same name. On the left side these veins often join the suprarenal vein. Varieties.—It occasionally happens that the left common iliac vein is con- tinued upwards on the left side of the aorta, after having given off, in most of these cases, a connecting branch of variable size to the right vein at the usual place of junction. About the level of the second lumbar vertebra it receives the left renal vein, and then crosses in front of (very rarely behind) the aorta to join the right common iliac vein, which passes up in the usual place of the inferior vena cava. The vein on the left of the aorta in these cases is regarded by W. Krause as a persistent lower portion of the left cardinal vein of the foetus. In rarer cases the inferior vena cava is placed in the lower part of its course on the left side of the aorta, and crosses over the latter vessel to gain its usual situation, after having been joined by the left renal vein. It is obvious that this condition would result from the foregoing variety if the vein of the right side were obliterated. In cases of transposition of the viscera, without other abnormality (p. 35G), the inferior vena cava is of course on the left side of the aorta throughout. In a few instances the inferior vena cava, instead of ending in the right auricle of the heart, has been seen following the course of the right, or even of the left, azygos vein, passing through the diaphragm by the side of the aorta, and ascending through the posterior mediastinum, to join the superior vena cava, which therefore returns the blood from nearly the whole of the body. In these cases the hepatic veins do not join the inferior cava, but form a trunk which opens into the right auricle at the usual place of termination of that vessel. In this variety it may be supposed that the normal inferior cava has not been developed, and that the blood is returned from the lower part of the body by a persistent cardinal vein. (See the account of the development of the great veins in Yol. II.) Supernumerary renal veins are occasionally met with, but not so frequently as supernumerary arteries; and one of these vessels on the left side may open into the corresponding azygos vein, as may also the spermatic or suprarenal vein.