63 Fig. 55.—Sagittal section of LEFT NASAL FOSSA, &C. (A.T.) £ BONES OF ,TIIE HEAD. A PART OF THE SKULL, SHOW- dorsum sell® divided ; and between 9 and 10, the sella turcica ; 11, posterior surface of Fig. 55. sphenoidal first appear during childhood, but remain of small size up to the time of puberty, when they undergo a great enlargement. In advanced fife they all increase in size by absorption of the cancellated ING THE OUTER WALL OF THE 1, nasal bone ; 2, nasal process of the superior maxillary bone; 3, vertical plate of the palate bone ; 4, superior turbinate bone —below it the superior meatus, behind it the opening into the left sphenoidal sinus; 5, the middle turbinate bone—below it the middle meatus, into which opens the maxillary sinus ; supe- riorly and anteriorly, is the open- ing of the infundibulum ; behind it, and above 3, the spheno- palatine foramen ; 6, inferiol- turbinate bone — below it the inferior meatus x x ; below these marks the section of the palate plates of the left palate and superior maxillary bones ; 7, left frontal sinus ; 8, left sphenoidal sinus; 9, left optie foramen in the root of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, and anterior clinoid process ; 10, the petrous, close to the internal auditory meatus ; 12, basilar process of the occipital bone, close to the jugular foramen; 13, below the anterior condylar foramen; 14, left styloid process ; 15, external, and 16, internal pterygoid plates ; 17, posterior palatine canal. tissue in their vicinity. The ethmoidal sinuses consist of several irregular spaces occupying the lateral masses of the ethmoid, and completed by the frontal, sphenoid, lachrymal, inferior maxillary and palate bones. The anterior, the larger and more numerous, open into the middle, the posterior into the superior meatus. The frontal sinuses are placed between the outer and inner tables of the frontal bone over the root of the nose. They extend outwards from behind the glabella to a variable distance over the orbit, being separated from each other by a thin bony septum. They open into the middle meatuses of the nose through the infundibula. The sphenoidal sinuses occupy the body of the sphenoid, being formed in connection with the sphenoidal spongy bones. They are separated by a median septum, and open on the roof of the nose above the superior meatus. The maxillary sinus has been described in connection with the superior maxillary bone ; it opens by a small aperture into the middle meatus. OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE HEAD. The ossification of the bones of the base of the cranium takes place for the most part in cartilage, and in each case proceeds from several centres which represent distinct bones in the lower vertebrate types ; the bones of the roof are simpler in their development and originate in membrane; those of the face are also deposited in membrane, with the exception of the inferior turbinate bone and a small part of the lower jaw. In the expanded tabular bones the ossification spreads outwards from the centres, and the marginal portions, in the earlier stages, present more or less the form of radiated fibres or spicula. At birth the sutural edges, and especially the angles, are incomplete, the bones being united and the interspaces filled up by fibrous tissue. The diploe and sinuses are at first