MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 242 of tlie ilium, and is inserted into the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, or into the ilio-femoral ligament. The psoas par vus, a small muscle placed on the surface of the psoas magnus, arises from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and from the disc between them, and soon ends in a flat tendon, which passes along the front and the inner side of the psoas magnus, being incorporated with the iliac fascia, and is inserted into the ilio-pectineal line and eminence. This muscle, although it is well developed and constant in animals generally, is very inconstant in the human subject. Out of 450 bodies examined by Gruber it was absent on both sides in 183, on one side only in 69. When present, it is liable to many changes in the place of origin ; thus, it may be connected only with the first lumbar vertebra, or with the second and the intervertebral substance above it, and it has been observed to commence by two parts or heads separated by an interval. The sartorius muscle is very long, narrow, and ribbon-shaped, and has the longest fibres of all the muscles of the body. It arises by a short tendon from the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and from a small part of the anterior margin of that bone immediately below, and, passing downwards and inwards across the front of the thigh, it is inserted by a thin flattened tendon into a slight roughness on the inner side of the tibia near the tubercle, sending off one aponeurotic expansion from its upper border to the capsule of the knee-joint, and another from its lower border to the fascia of the leg. Relations.—In this long course the sartorius is directed obliquely inwards over the anterior part of the thigh in the upper half, and then nearly vertically on the inner aspect of the limb as far as the knee : below this it curves forwards to its place of attachment. The muscle is covered only by the fascia lata and the integument. It passes over the iliacus and rectus femoris muscles, the anterior crural nerve and femoral vessels, the pectineus, the adductor longus, adductor magnus, and vastus intemus muscles. The tendon of insertion covers those of the gracilis and semitendinosus, being separated from them, however, by a pro- longation of the bursa which is interposed between these tendons and the in- ternal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The inner border of this muscle and the most projecting part of the adductor longus form the sides, and Poupart’s ligament forms the base, of a triangular space in the upper third of the thigh, through the middle of which the femoral artery passes. This usually receives the name of Scarpa’s triangle. Varieties.—The sartorius has in several instances been found divided into two parts similarly attached ; or the accessory portion is inserted into the femur or ligament of the patella, or into the tendon of the normal one. The tendon of insertion has been found to end in the fascia lata or in the capsule of the knee- joint. A tendinous intersection has been seen in rare cases. Total absence of the muscle has also been noted. The quadriceps extensor cruris, the extensor muscle of the knee, is divisible into four parts, one of which, the rectus femoris, descends from the hip-bone and is distinct to its insertion, while the other three, viz., the vastus externus, vastus interims, and crureus, are more or less closely united together, and cover the whole of the anterior and lateral surfaces of the thigh-bone, from which they arise. a. The rectus femoris is spindle-shaped, and extends in a straight line from the pelvis to the patella. It arises from the ilium by two tendi- nous heads, the anterior of which is attached to the anterior inferior spine, and the posterior to the impression on the outer surface of the bone immediately above the acetabulum. The two join at a right