SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE TRUNK. 680 sternal articulation, on the left to that of the sixth ; it does not usually reach more than an inch and a half or two inches beyond the left margin of the sternum. It must be borne in mind, however, that the liver is subject to great variations, not only in size, but also in position, both tem- porarily and permanently. Thus, it sinks with inspiration, and rises in expiration ; it descends slightly on assuming the upright position ; and it is frequently moved downwards by alterations in the shape of the chest. It is relatively very large in the infant and child, and extends across far into the left hypochondriac region. In adults, the margin of the liver is seldom to be felt below the ribs on the right side during health, unless the abdominal wall be unusually thin. The stomach lies in the left hypochondriac and the epigastric regions, in the latter being partly covered by the liver and partly in contact with the abdominal wall. Its cardiac orifice is situated behind the seventh costal cartilage of the left side, about an inch from the sternum : the pylorus is from two to three inches below the xiphi-sternal articulation, and, when the stomach is contracted, immediately to the right of the mesial plane ; but when the stomach is distended, the pylorus moves considerably to the right. The fundus of the stomach is directed upwards into the left portion of the vault of the diaphragm, and reaches under ordinary circumstances to the level of, or somewhat higher than, the sixth chondro-sternal articulation, being a little above (and behind) the apex of the heart. The great curvature of the stomach is directed at first to the left, and afterwards downwards, the latter part reaching, with a moderate degree of distension of the organ, about as far as the line separating the epigastric from the umbilical regions. The transverse colon passes across in the upper part of the umbilical region, following closely the great curvature of the stomach. The cfecum is comparatively superficial in the right iliac region ; the ascending colon and the hepatic flexure are deeply placed in the right lumbar and hypochondriac regions. The splenic flexure reaches a much higher level than the hepatic, and is situated behind the stomach in the left hypochondriac region, while the descending colon occupies the hinder part of the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions. Deep pressure on the left side detects the sigmoid flexure as it passes over the brim of the pelvis, in thin persons even when comparatively empty ; if distended with fasces, it forms a distinct tumour in this situation. The intestines below the stomach are all covered more or less com- pletely by the great omentum. The coils of the small intestine occupy the anterior part of the belly below the transverse colon, those of the jejunum being principally found above, those of the ileum below. In children under ordinary circumstances, and in adults when it is distended, the bladder rises out of the pelvis into the hypogastric region, being closely applied to the anterior abdominal wall without the inter- vention of peritoneum for some distance above the pubis ; if the distension be excessive, the bladder may reach as far as the umbilicus. The kidneys, being situated at the back of the abdominal cavity, are not to be felt under normal conditions, or at most the right is at times to be detected. They occupy on each side a part of the lumbar, hypo- chondriac, epigastric, and umbilical regions. The inferior extremity of the right kidney (which, it will be remembered, is the lower of the two) scarcely reaches to the level of the umbilicus. The pancreas crosses the spine about three inches above the umbilicus;