OCCIPITO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS. 145 round, placed in front of it, which is sometimes described as the com- mencement of the anterior common ligament. The anterior atlanto-axial ligament, likewise thin and mem- branous, except in the middle, where it is considerably thickened, extends from the anterior arch of the atlas to the body of the axis. Fig. 121. c Fig. 121.—The ligamentous structures which surround the articulations of tiie OCCIPUT AND TWO UPPER VERTEBRAS. } A, the lower part of the skull sawn transversely through the basilar process, with the atlas and axis, viewed from before. 1, the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament ; 2, the accessory occipito-atlantal ligament ; 3, the anterior atlanto-axial ligament. B, the lower part of the skull, with three adjacent vertebra;, viewed from behind. 1, the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament; 2, the posterior atlanto-axial ligament. C, the occipital bone sawn transversely through the foramen magnum, and a part of the arches of the atlas and axis removed, so as to show the posterior oceipito-axial ligament. The posterior occipito-atlantal ligament, thin and membranous, is attached superiorly to the margin of the occipital foramen behind the condyles, and interiorly to the adjacent border of the arch of the atlas. It is closely united to the dura mater. The posterior atlanto-axial ligament, similar to the preceding, connects the neural arch of the atlas with that of the axis, in the absence of ligamenta subflava. Movements.—The atlanto-axial articulation is so constructed that the head, to- gether with the atlas, is rotated on the axis ; the odontoid process serving as a pivot. The rotation is limited by the check ligaments. The occipito-atlantal articulation takes no part in rotation, hut allows the head to be freely raised or depressed upon the vertebral column. When the atlas is placed symmetrically over the axis, it is seen that the opposing articular surfaces, instead of fitting one to the other, come very slightly into contact, the surface of the axis present- ing an antero-posterio convexity, to which there is no corresponding concavity von i. l