449 COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. length. Both are covered by the peritoneum and the small intestine, and are crossed by the branches of the sympathetic nerve which pass from the aortic to the hypogastric plexus, as well as usually by the ureter near their point of division ; the artery of the left side is crossed also by the superior hemorrhoidal vessels. The left common iliac artery lies close to the inner border of the psoas muscle, and rests upon the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae ; the right artery is separated for the most part from these bones by the two common iliac veins, and touches the psoas muscle only at its lower end. The viscera of the pelvis have been re- moved, as well as the internal iliac veins; the larger nerves have been left: a, body of the fifth lumbar ver- tebra; b, anterior supe- rior spine of the ilium; c, left auricular surface of the sacrum ; c', third piece of the sacrum ; d, first piece of the coccyx; e, small sacro- sciatic ligament ; f, tuberosity of the is- chium, covered inter- nally by the great sacro-sciatic ligament; rj, aperture at the upper end of the obtu- rator foramen; i, ilia- cus muscle ; 1, abdo- minal aorta; 1', middle sacral artery ; 2, 2, common iliac arteries ; 2' right external iliac ; 3, inferior vena cava ; 4, 4, common iliac veins; the number on the right points by a line to the right internal iliac artery ; 4', right external iliac vein; 5, placed on the lumbo-sacral nervous trunk, points to the posterior division of the internal iliac artery continued into the gluteal; 5', ilio-lumbar artery ; 5", lateral sacral artery, with branches passing into the anterior sacral foramina; 6, placed on the anterior division of the first sacral nerve, points to the sciatic artery coming from the anterior division of the internal iliac ; 7, pudic artery ; 7', the same artery passing behind the spine of the ischium, and proceeding forwards on the inner side of the obturator internus muscle, accompanied by the pudic nerve, and giving off, near /, inferior hannorrhoidal branches ; 7", superficial perineal artery and nerve ; 8, obliterated hypogastric artery, cut short, and 8', superior vesical branches rising from it; 9, obturator artery with the correspond- ing nerve and vein ; 9', pubic twigs which anastomose with the pubic branch of the epi- gastric artery; 10, inferior vesical; 11, middle hemorrhoidal artery, rising in this instance from the pudic ; 12, epigastric artery, winding to the inner side of +, +, the vas deferens and spermatic cord; 13, circumflex iliac artery; 14, spermatic artery and vein divided superiorly; 15, twigs of the ilio-lumbar artery proceeding to anastomose with the circumflex iliac. VOL. I. Fig. 268.—The eight SIDE OF A MALE PELVIS SHOWING THE ILIAC ARTERIES AND THEIR BRANCHES. (A.T.) i Fig. 268. G G