5 and 6, interphalangeal cavities ; 4', 5', and 6', the palmar ARTICULATIONS OF THE HAND. Fig. 138. Fig. 138.—Sacittal section through the lower tart op AND PHALANGES OP THE MIDDLE FINGER, TO SHOW THE SHAPE 163 the interior of the joint, is lined by synovial membrane, and supports the head of the metacarpal bone. In the joint of the thumb there are two sesamoid bones, one situated at each side, which are connected with its ligaments. THE RADIUS, SEMILUNAR BONE, OS MAGNUM, METACARPAL BONE OP THE ARTICULAR SURFACES AND THE STNOVIAL CAVITIES BETWEEN THESE SEVERAL BONES. (A. T.) | 1, synovial cavity of the wrist-joint ; 2, intercarpal cavity ; 3, carpo-metacarpal cavity ; 4, metacarpo-phalangeal cavity; fibrous plates which are attached to the bases of the several phalanges ; 7, indicates the place of the tendons of the long flexor muscles ; 8, section of the anterior annular ligament; 9, and 10, transverse retinacula, or vaginal ligaments of the flexor tendons on the first and second phalanges. A synovial membrane is present in each joint, and invests the surface of the ligaments which •connect the bones. The interphalangeal articulations differ from the foregoing only m the shape of the articular surfaces {see p. 118). Movements of the Wrist and Fingers.—The move- ments taking place at the wrist have their seat partly in the radio-carpal, partly in the intercarpal articulation. Flexion is the freest movement, hut a considerable degree of over-extension is also permitted. The hand can also he moved laterally, and to a greater extent inwards (adduction or ulnar flexion) than outwards (abduction or radial flexion). The kind of movement which is allowed between the several ■carpal and metacaipal bones is best illustrated by placing the hand in such a position that the weight of the body is rested upon the open palm. The metacarpal range, which naturally is concave towards the palm, is flattened ; and the interosseous and palmar metacarpal ligaments are thus tightened, while a slight separation of the opposed surfaces of the bones takes place; so also the palmar carpo-metacarpal ligaments are tightened, and both palmar and interosseous ligaments of the second range of carpal hones. The convex part of the os magnum and unciform bone, fitted in these circumstances into the concavity of the first range, is a little wider than the part usually in contact with it; and thus, while the bones of the first range are separated from the palmar side, those ■of the second range are pressed still more apart from the distal aspect. The whole arrangement secures elasticity. The fourth and especially the fifth meta- carpal bones are not so tightly bound to the carpus as the second and third, and can therefore be moved to some extent forwards (opposition), thus making the hand narrower and deepening the hollow of the palm : these hones move in this way very distinctly in shutting the hand, so that the, back is then rendered more convex, and the tips of the fingers are brought more closely together. At the interphalangeal articulations the only movements allowed are flexion and extension, while over-extension is prevented by the ligamentous structures in front of the joints. At the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations of the fingers abduction and adduction are allowed, chiefly in the extended position. In the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium all kinds of angular movement are allowed, but owing to the shape of the articular surfaces the movement of flexion is accompanied by a certain amount of rotation of the metacarpal bone on its long axis, by which the thumb is turned towards the m 2