233 GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. muscle, quadrilateral in shape, which arises from the posterior fourth of the iliac crest, and from the rough surface of the ilium between the crest and the superior curved line ; from the back of the last two pieces of the sacrum and the first three pieces of the coccyx ; from the great Fig. 176.'—Superficial muscles of the hip Fig. 176. AND THIGH, SEEN FROM BEHIND. (A. T.) f 1, gluteus medius, covered by the fascia lata ; 2, gluteus maximus ; 2', lower part of the fas- cial insertion of the gluteus maximus ; 3, vastus externus ; 4, biceps flexor cruris ; 4', tendon of the biceps ; 5, 5', semitendinosus ; 6, 6, semi- membranosus ; 7, 7', gracilis ; 8, sartorius ; 9, adductor magnus ; 10, outer, and 11, inner head of the gastrocnemius ; 12, placed in the popliteal space, points to the origin of the plantaris. sacro-sciatic ligament; and, between the sacrum and the ilium, from the aponeurosis of the erector spinse muscle. Thence it passes downwards and out- wards with parallel fibres. The whole of the upper half of the muscle, and the superficial fibres of the lower half are inserted into the strong fascia on the outer side of the thigh ; the deeper and larger portion of the lower half forms a flattened tendon which is at- tached to the gluteal ridge on the upper third of the shaft of the femur. Relations.—The lower border of the muscle lies in the fold of the nates. The deep sur- face rests on the gluteus medius and pyri- fonnis muscles, the tendon of the obturator internus with the two gemelli, the quad- ratus femoris, a small portion of the ad- ductor magnus, the great trochanter, the ischial tuberosity, and the origins of the hamstring muscles; it covers also the sciatic vessels and nerves as they emerge from the pelvis below the pyriformis, the superficial branch of the gluteal artery passing out above that muscle, and the pudic vessels and nerve lying behind the spine of the ischium. Between the fascial insertion of the muscle and the great trochanter is a large multilocular bursa, or there are sometimes two or three smaller ones, and another in- tervenes between it and the upper part of the vastus externus. The great size of the gluteus maximus, and the consequent prominence of the buttock, is a characteristic of man as com- pared with those animals which most nearly approach him in general structure. Varieties.—These are not frequent. The muscle has been seen receiving an additional fasciculus of origin from the lumbar aponeurosis, or joined at its lower border by a distinct slip from the lower part of the sacrum and coccyx, repre-