MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 250 inner ankle and the heel, through which the tendons of the flexor muscles run. Its upper border, continuous with the fascia of the leg (more especially the intermuscular layer), is very imperfectly defined ; and its lower border, giving origin to many fibres of the abductor hallucis, is but little more distinct. Its anterior extremity is attached to the inner malleolus, and its posterior to the inner side of the calcaneum ; but between these two points it arches over several osseous grooves so as to form canals for the passage of tendons. The first canal (next to the malleolus) contains the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and the second that of the flexor longus digitorum, each being provided with a synovial lining. Then follows a wider space for the passage of the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Lastly a fourth canal upon the astragalus, 1 ined like the first two by a synovial bursa, transmits the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The external annular ligament extends from the point of the outer malleolus, to the outer side of the calcaneum, and keeps in place the tendons of the long and short peroneal muscles. The tendons are close together, and are surrounded by one synovial sac. Muscles.—The muscles of this part are divided naturally into three groups, which occupy respectively the front, the outer side, and the back of the leg. ANTERIOR REGION. Between the tibia and fibula, and on the front of the leg, are placed four muscles—the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius hallucis, extensor longus digitorum, and peroneus tertius. The tibialis anticus arises from the lower part of the external tuberosity of the tibia, and from the upper half of the outer surface of that bone ; from the adjoining portion of the interosseous membrane ; from the strong fascia of the leg ; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the extensor longus digitorum. The tendon glides in a synovial sheath beneath the anterior annular ligament, and is inserted into a rounded mark on the inner and lower part of the internal cunei- form and into the contiguous extremity of the first metatarsal bone, dividing slightly into two slips as it descends. Halations.—This muscle lies immediately under the aponeurosis of the leg. It rests upon the tibia, and the interosseous membrane. Its outer surface is in contact with the extensor longus digitorum, the extensor proprius hallucis, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. Its tendon passes over the lower end of the tibia, the ankle-joint, and the inner surface of the tarsus. A small bursa is fre- quently placed under it close to its insertion. Varieties.—In cases of talipes the tendon of this muscle has been found split into two, one half going to the usual place of insertion, the other to the astra- galus or first metatarsal bone ; the whole tendon has also been seen inserted into the plantar fascia. The tibio-fascialis anticus is a small muscle described by Wood, arising from the lower third of the anterior edge of the tibia over the tibialis anticus, and inserted into the annular ligament and deep fascia. It may also exist as a tendinous slip from the tibialis anticus. The extensor proprius hallucis muscle (extensor proprius pollicis pedis), placed between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum, arises from the middle two-fourtlis of the narrow anterior surface of the fibula, and from the contiguous portion of the interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a distinct compartment in the