TROCHLEAR AND TRIFACIAL NERVES. 553 beneath the free margin of the tentorium, a little behind the posterior clinoid process, and rnns forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, resting against the upper margin of the ophthalmic nerve, and crossing the third obliquely on its outer side from below upwards, to the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure. Passing into the orbit above the external rectus muscle, it inclines inwards over the levator palpebrae and Fig. 316.—View from above OF THE UPPERMOST NERVES OF THE ORBIT, THE GAS- SERIAN ganglion, &c. (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Lcveilld). I, olfactory tract, passing for- wards into the bulb ; II, optic commissure ; III, oculomotor ; IV, trochlear nerve ; V, large root of the fifth nerve, a small portion of the lesser root is seen below it; VI, sixth nerve ; VII, facial ; VIII, auditory; IN, glosso - pharyngeal; X, pneumo - gastric ; XI, spinal accessory ; XII, hypoglossal ; 1, Gasserian ganglion ; 2, oph- thalmic nerve; 3, lachrymal nerve ; 4, frontal; 5, external, 6, internal bi'anch of the supra- orbital nerve; 7, supratrochlear nerve ; 8, nasal nerve ; 9, its infratrochlear branch; 10, nasal nerve, passing through the in- ternal orbital canal; 11, an- terior deep temporal proceeding from the buccal nerve; 12, middle deep temporal; 13, pos- terior deep temporal arising from the masseteric ; 14, origin of the auriculo-temporal; 15, great superficial petrosal nerve. Fig. 316. superior rectus, and finally enters the superior oblique muscle on its upper surface, and close to its outer border. While lodged in the outer wall of the sinus, the fourth nerve is con- nected with the sympathetic on the carotid artery, and according to Rosenthal it is also joined by a filament from the ophthalmic nerve. Varieties.—The fourth nerve has been observed in several cases sending a branch forwards to the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, or to join the supra- trochlear, the infratrochlear, or the nasal nerve. A communication with the frontal nerve is recorded by Berte. V.—TRIFACIAL KERVE. The fifth, trifacial, or trigeminal nerve is the largest of the cranial nerves, and resembles a spinal nerve, in the circumstance that it arises by separate sensory and motor roots, and also that the sensory fibres pass through a ganglion while the motor do not. Its sensory division, which is much the larger, imparts common sensibility to the face and the fore part of the head, as well as to the eye, the nose, the ear, and the mouth, includ-