OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. 73 Callender explains this as being due to the development at the lower and fore part of the maxilla of an outgrowth, which he terms the incisor process, and which forms the front wall of the incisor sockets ; behind this process, between it and the palate process, is a deep groove in which the premaxillary bone is formed, the latter being distinct up to the fifth month of foetal life. The sockets of the teeth are formed by the downgrowth of an outer and an inner plate on the sides of the dental groove, and subsequently the partitions Fig. 61. Fig. 61.—Different views op the superior maxiluary bone op a fcetus op four or five months (R. Quain). A, external surface ; a fissure, 1, is seen extending through the orbit into the infra- orbital canal. B, the internal surface ; the incisor fissure, 2, extends from the foramen upwards through the horizontal plate and some way into the nasal process. C, the bone from below, showing the imperfect alveoli and the incisor fissure, 2', 1, which crosses the palate plate, between the second and third alveoli, and passes through the outer part of the bone. appear, those on each side of the canine tooth first. The antrum appears as a shallow depression on the inner surface of the bone at about the fourth month ; this gradually extends, separating the orbital and palate portions of the bone, which at birth are still very close together. The infraorbital canal begins as a groove on the orbital surface, the margins of which gradually close over, but a fine suture remains indicating the line of meeting. The palate bone is ossified from a single centre, which appears in the seventh or eighth week at the angle between its horizontal and ascending parts. The vomer is ossified from a single nucleus appearing at the hinder part about the eighth week. From this nucleus two laminae are developed, which, passing Fig. 62.—The fcetal vomer near tiie time of birth (R. Quain). 1 & 2 show the two plates of which the bone consists, and which are united behind and below. up on either side of the middle line, embrace the septal cartilage. These laminae gradually undergo increased union from behind forwards till the age of puberty, thus forming a mesial plate, with only a groove remaining on its anterior and superior margins. The nasal and lachrymal bones are each ossified from a single centre, which appears about the eighth week. The malar bone also commences to ossify about the eighth week. According to Rambaud and Renault it is developed from three points which have united by the fourth month of fcetal life ; and to the persistent separation of one of these, the divided condition of the bone referred to on p. 53 may be due. The inferior turbinate bone is ossified in cartilage from a single centre, which only appears in the fifth month. The inferior maxillary bone is developed principally in the fibrous tissue investing Meckel’s cartilage (see development of the head in Vol. II.), but to Fig. 62. 2 *’ ■ Q