SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 439 to right in the direction of the pancreatic duct, and is called arteriapan- creatica magnet. (b) The splenic branches are the proper terminal branches of the artery ; they are five or six, or even more, in number, and vary in length and size; they enter the spleen by the hilus on its concave surface, and ramify within that organ. (c) The short gastric branches (vasa brevia), from four to six in number, are directed forwards and to the right, some issuing from the trunk of the splenic artery, others from its terminal branches : they reach the left extremity of the stomach, where they divide and spread out between its coats, communicating with the coronary and left gastro-epiploic arteries. (d) The left gastro-epiploic artery runs from left to right along the great curvature of the stomach, supplying branches to both surfaces of the stomach and to the omentum on the left side, and inosculates with the right gastro-epiploic branch from the hepatic artery. Varieties.—These are not frequent. The splenic artery has been seen to give off the left hepatic artery, the middle colic artery, and in one case, together with the last, the inferior mesenteric artery. The superior mesenteric artery (i) supplies the whole of the small intestine beyond the duodenum, and half of the large intestine. It arises from the fore part of the aorta, a little below the coeliae axis, and under cover of the pancreas and splenic vein. Emerging below the pancreas, it crosses the left end of the third part of the duodenum, and descends between the layers of the mesentery. Much diminished in size owing to the large number of its branches, it inclines below towards the right iliac fossa, and ends near the junction of the ileum with the large intestine by inosculating with its own ileo-colic branch. Branches.—(a) The inferior pancreatico-duodenal, generally arising from the first intestinal branch and directed transversely to the right behind the main trunk, runs along the concave border of the duodenum, and joins with the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery. (b) The intestinal branches, supplying the jejunum and ileum, spring from the convex or left side of tire vessel. They are usually twelve or more in number, and are all included between the layers of the mesen- tery. They run parallel to one another for some distance, and then divide into two branches, each of which forms an arch with the neigh- bouring branch. From the first set of arches other branches issue, which divide and communicate in the same way, until finally, after forming from three to five such tiers of arches, the smaller as they arc nearer to the intestine, the ultimate divisions proceed directly to the intestine, spreading upon both sides, and ramifying in its coats. Small offsets are also furnished to the glands and other structures between the layers of the mesentery. (c) The colic branches arise from the right or concave side of the artery, and are usually three in number. 1. The ileo-colic artery, the first in order from below upwards, inclines downwards and to the right side, towards the caecum, and divides into two branches : one of these descends to inosculate with the termination of the mesenteric artery itself, and to form an arch, from the convexity of which branches proceed to supply the junction of the small with the large intestine, and the caecum and its appendix ; the other division