CERVICAL PLEXUS. 599 junction of the third with the fourth, arise some of the cutaneous nerves of the shoulder and chest. Muscular and communicating branches spring from the same nerves. The branches of the plexus may be separated into two sets—a superficial and deep ; the superficial consisting of those which perforate the cervical fascia and supply the integument ; the deep comprising branches which are distributed for the most part to the muscles. The superficial nerves may be subdivided into ascending and descending; the deep nerves into an internal and an external series. SUPEBI'ICIAL ASCENDING BRANCHES. Superficial cervical nerve.—This nerve takes origin from the second and third cervical nerves, turns forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle, and, after perforating the cervical fascia, divides beneath the platysma myoides into two branches, which are distributed to the anterior part of the neck. (a) The tipper branch is the larger, and gives an ascending twig which accompanies the external jugular vein, and communicates freely with the facial nerve (cervico-facial division) ; it is then transmitted through the platysma to the surface, and ramifies in the integument of the upper half of the front of the neck, filaments reaching as high as the lower maxilla. (b) The lower branch, sometimes represented by two or three smaller offsets, likewise pierces the platysma, and is distributed below the pre- ceding, its filaments extending in front as low as the sternum. Variety.—The superficial cervical nerve may arise from the plexus in the form of two or more distinct branches. Thus Valentin describes three superficial cervical nerves, which he names superior, middle, and inferior. Great auricular nerve.—Arising from the second and third cervical nerves, this branch winds round the hinder border of the sterno-mastoid, and is directed obliquely upwards between the platysma myoides muscle and the deep fascia of the neck towards the lobule of the ear. A little below the latter the nerve g;ives a few small offsets to the face, and then ends in auricular and mastoid branches. (a) The auricular branches are directed to the back of the auricle, on which they ramify, and arc connected with twigs derived from the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. One offset reaches the outer surface of the ear by a fissure between the antihelix and the concha. A few filaments are supplied likewise to the outer part of the lobule. (b) The mastoid branch ramifies in the integument over the mastoid process, and communicates with the posterior auricular and small occipital nerves. (c) The facial branches are distributed to the integument of the face over the parotid gland. Some slender filaments penetrate into the sub- stance of the gland, and communicate with the facial nerve. Small occipital nerve.—The small occipital nerve varies in size, and is sometimes double. It springs from the second and third (sometimes only the second) cervical nerves, and is directed almost vertically to the head along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Having