SPLANCHNIC NERVES. 659 Fig. 3G7.—Diagrammatic view of the sympathetic cord of the right side, showing ITS CONNECTIONS WITH THE PRINCIPAL CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES AND THE MAIN PIIEAORTIC PLEXUSES. $■ Cerebrospinal Nerves.—VI, a portion of the sixth cranial nerve as it passes through the cavernous sinus, receiving two twigs from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic nerve ; 0, ophthalmic ganglion, connected by a twig with the cavernous plexus; M, connection of the spheno-palatine ganglion by the large deep petrosal nerve with the carotid plexus ; C, cervical plexus ; Br, brachial plexus ; D 6, sixth dorsal nerve ; D 12, twelfth ; L 8, third lumbar nerve ; S 1, first sacral nerve ; S 3, third ; S 5, fifth ; Cr, anterior crural nerve ; Cr', great sciatic ; pn, pneumo-gastric nerve in the lower part of the neck ; r, re- current nerve, winding round the subclavian artery. Sympathetic Cord.—c, superior cervical gaDglion ; c', middle ; c", inferior ; from each of these ganglia cardiac nerves (all deep on this side) are seen descending to the cardiac plexus; d 1, placed immediately below the first dorsal sympathetic ganglion; cZ 6, is opposite the sixth ; l 1, first lumbar ganglion ; c g, the terminal or coccygeal ganglion. Preaortic and Visceral Plexuses. —pp, pharyngeal plexus ; pi, posterior pulmonary plexus, spreading from the pneumo-gastric on the back of the right bronchus ; ca, on the aorta, the cardiac plexus, towards which, in addition to the cardiac nerves from the three cervical sympathetic ganglia, other branches are seen descending from the pneumo-gastric and recurrent nerves ; co, right or posterior, and co’, left or anterior coronary plexus ; o, oesophageal plexus in long meshes on the gullet; sp, great splanchnic nerve; +, small splanchnic ; + +, smallest splanchnic ; the first and second of these are shown joining so, the' solar plexus ; the third descending to re, the renal plexus; connecting branches between the solar plexus and the pneumo-gastric nerves are also represented ; pn', above the place where the right pneumo-gastric passes to the posterior surfa.ee of the stomach ; pn", the left, distributed on the anterior surface of the cardiac portion of the organ ; from the solar plexus large branches are seen surrounding the arteries of the cteliac axis, and descending to ms, the superior mesenteric plexus ; opposite to this is an indication of the suprarenal plexus ; below re (the renal plexus), the spermatic plexus is also indicated ; ao, on the front of the aorta, marks the aortic plexus, formed by nerves descending from the solar and superior mesenteric plexuses and from the lumbar ganglia; mi, the inferior mesenteric plexus, surrounding the corresponding artery ; hy, hypogastric plexus, placed between the common iliac arteries, connected above with the aortic plexus, receiving nerves from the lower lumbar ganglia, and dividing below into the right and left pelvic or inferior hypogastric plexuses ; pi, right pelvic plexus ; from this the nerves descending are joined by those from the plexus on the superior lnemorrhoidal vessels mi', by sympathetic nerves from the sacral ganglia, and by numerous visceral nerves from the third and fourth sacral spinal nerves, and there are thus formed the rectal, vesical, and other plexuses, which ramify upon the viscera from behind forwards, and from below upwards, as towards ir, and v, the rectum and bladder. arrangement, several small ganglia have been observed on its divisions. Accord- ing to Cunningham, the splanchnic ganglion is always present on the right side (Journ. Anat., ix., 303). In eight instances out of a large number of bodies, Wrisberg observed a fourth splanchnic nerve (nervus splanchnicus supremus). It is described as formed by offsets from the cardiac nerves, and from the lower cervical as well as some of the upper thoracic ganglia. (“ Observ. Anatom, de Nerv. Visceram particula prima, ” p. 25, sect. 3.) Small splanclmic nerve.—The small or second splanchnic nerve springs from the tenth and eleventh ganglia, or from the neighbouring part of the cord. It passes along with the preceding nerve, or separately, through the diaphragm, and ends in the coeliac plexus. In the chest, this nerve often communicates with the large splanchnic nerve ; and in some instances it furnishes filaments to the renal plexus, especially if the lowest splanchnic nerve is very small or wanting. Smallest splanclmic nerve.—This nerve (nerv. renalis posterior— "Walter) arises from the twelfth thoracic ganglion, and communicates sometimes with the nerve last described. After piercing the diaphragm, it ends in the renal plexus, and in the inferior part of the coeliac plexus. u u 2