ARTICULATIONS OP THE LOWER LIMB. 180 The astragalo-navicular ligament, a membranous band situated on the dorsum of the foot, extends obliquely forwards from the head of the astragalus to the upper surface of the navicular bone, and completes the capsule of the astragalo-calcaneo-navicular joint, formed in the rest of its extent by the inferior and external calcaneo-navicular ligaments. Two synovial membranes line the articulations of the calcaneum and navicular bone with the astragalus, one belonging to the astragalo-calcaneal joint, and the other to the astragalo-calcaneo-navicular articulation. Calcaneo-Cuboid Articulation.—The calcaneum is united to the cuboid bone by a synovial joint and ligaments. The inferior ligament consists of two distinct layers, of which one is superficial, the other deep-seated. The superficial part, called the long Fig. 151. Fig. 151.—Ligaments of the foot, from the inner side. (A. T.) i 1, internal lateral ligament of the ankle ; x , in front of the sustentaculum tali, show- ing part of the internal lateral ligament descending upon it; 2, posterior astragalo-calcaneal ligament ; 4, part of the long and short plantar ligaments seen from the inside ; 5, 6, astragalo-navicular ligament, divided into three portions ; 7, 8, first, 9, second dorsal naviculo-cuneiform ligaments; 10, intercuneiform, or transverse dorsal cuneiform, between the first and second cuneiform bones ; 11, first dorsal tarso-metatarsal ligament; 12, first inferior tarso-metatarsal; 13, internal lateral metatarso-phalangeal ; the internal sesamoid bone is seen below ; 14, internal lateral interphalangeal ligament of the first toe, plantar ligament (fig. 150, 3), is the longest of the tarsal ligaments. Its fibres, attached behind to the inferior surface of the calcaneum as far as the anterior tubercle, pass forwards, and are attached in greater part to the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone ; but some of them are continued onwards to the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, covering the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. The deep-seated part, or short plantar ligament (fig. 150, 3'), lies close to the bones, being separated from the superficial part by some areolar tissue. Its breadth is considerable, its length scarcely an inch. One extremity is attached to the anterior tubercle of the calcaneum, the other, somewhat expanded, to the depressed surface of the cuboid bone behind the ridge.