THE ANKLE-JOINT. 177 Fig. 148. transverse or inferior ligament is a short band of TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATIONS. The tibia and fibula form articulations at their upper aud lower extremities, and their shafts are united by an interosseous membrane. Upper tibio-fibular articulation.—-The superior extremities of the bones present two flattened oval articular surfaces, retained in close contact by thin anterior and posterior superior tibio-fibular ligaments, both of which pass upwards and inwards from the head of the fibula to the external tuberosity of the tibia. The synovial cavity of this joint not unfrequently communicates posteriorly with that of the knee. The interosseous membrane or ligament, which connects the shafts of the tibia and fibula, passes between the external border of the tibia and the interosseous ridge of the fibula, and is composed for the most part of parallel fibres running outwards and downwards, only a few fibres crossing in a different direction. It presents superiorly an elongated opening for the transmission of the anterior tibial vessels, and interiorly a small interval is left between it and the lower articulation for the passage of the anterior peroneal vessels. Lower tibio-fibular articulation.—The inferior extremities of the tibia and fibula are in contact by surfaces which for the most part are rough and bound together by ligament, but near their lower edges are smooth and covered with cartilage. The tibial surface is concave, the fibular is correspondingly convex. The strong short fibres which pass directly between the opposed surfaces form the inferior interosseous liga- ment. The anterior ligament (fig. 152, 2) is a flat band of fibres, extended obliquely over the lower part of the bones, the direction of its fibres being downwards from the tibia to the fibula. The posterior ligament is similarly disposed behind the articulation. The yellowish fibres under cover of the posterior liga- ment ; it runs horizontally from the hinder border of the lower articular surface of the tibia to the contiguous part of the external malleolus, and closes the angular interval between the bones. The synovial cavity between the small articular surfaces is an extension of that of the ankle-joint. THE ANKLE-JOINT. In this articulation, which is a hinge-joint, the inferior extremities of the tibia and fibula are united so as to present a three-sided hollow, which embraces the astragalus and renders lateral move- ment impossible when the ligaments are tense. Fig. 148.—The lower tibio-fibular articulation and ANKLE-JOINT, FROM BEHIND (A. T.) ^ 1, interosseous membrane; 2, posterior ligament of the lower tibio-fibular articulation ; 3, internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint ; 4, posterior, and 5, middle bands of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 6, external, and 7, posterior astragalo-calcaneal ligaments. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament (fig. 151,1) is a flat fasciculus of fibres, much broader at the lower than at the upper part. One extremity