MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 190 bones, or run in fibrous sheaths, synovial cavities exist, either of a vesicular or tubular form, thus forming the synovial bursa or sheaths. In many such instances a true synovial membrane appears to cover the adjacent surfaces, and diminishes their friction in moving on each other. In other places less defined spaces exist in the connective tissue between parts of the tendons or fasciae, and occasionally between parts of the skin and the harder or more prominent structures on which they lie. In some of these subcutaneous bursae a distinct synovial membrane cannot be found ; and there are probably gradations of transition between these bursal spaces and those which are lined by synovial mem- brane. Some of the synovial sacs and sheaths of tendons in the vicinity of joints communicate freely with the articular cavities. (See Gen. Anat., vol. ii.) I.—MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE UPPER LIMB. A certain number of muscles situated superficially on the trunk pass to the bones of the shoulder and humerus, so as to attach the upper limb to the body. These muscles, from their position, form a division of the muscles of the trunk, but considered with reference to their desti- nation and action they may be held as belonging to the upper limb, and will therefore be so described in the present section. The muscles referred to are, posteriorly, the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, the rhomboidei, and levator anguli scapulas ; and, anteriorly, the two pectoral muscles, the subclavius, and the serratus magnus. Along with these might also be included the clavicular part of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle and the omo-hyoid; but as these last have important relations with parts situated in the neck, they are more conveniently described among the muscles of that region. BETWEEN THE TRUNK AND THE UPPER LIMB POSTERIORLY. Fascia:.—The superficial fascia covering the muscles which pass from the trunk to the shoulder and upper limb posteriorly forms a layer of considerable strength with embedded fat lying beneath the skin: it is continuous with that of the neck above, that of the axilla and breast in front, and that of the abdomen and hips below. The deep fascia of the back forms a dense fibrous layer closely investing the superficial muscles to which it furnishes sheaths : at the outer margins of the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles it is continuous with the deep fasciae of the neck, axilla, breast, and abdomen, and turns round beneath the edges of the muscles so as to complete their sheaths and separate them from the subjacent layer of muscles. It is attached to the skeleton along the line of the spines of the vertebrae, to the occipital bone, the spine of the scapula, and the crest of the ilium. In the loins there is a strong, flat, shining tendinous structure called the lumbar aponeurosis, to which the latissimus dorsi and other muscles are attached posteriorly ; but this will be most conveniently described along with the muscles of the back. Muscles.—The trapezius muscle (cucullaris) arises by a thin apo- neurosis from the piotuberance of the occipital bone, and the inner third of its superior curved line, from the ligamentum nuchte, and from the