FEMORAL ARTERY. 469 to both of which it furnishes branches, and, piercing the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh, is distributed to the scrotum in the male, to the labium in the female. The external pudic arteries anastomose with each other, with the superficial perineal artery, and with the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric artery. Fig. 279. Fig. 279.—The femoral artery and its branches (from R. Quain). \ The sartorius muscle has been re- moved in part, so as to expose the artery in the middle third of the thigh : a, anterior superior iliac spine ; b, aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle near the external abdominal ring; c, rectus femoris muscle ; d, adductor longus ; e, lower part of the aponeurosis covering the artery ; 1,1, femoral artery; 1', femoral vein, divided and tied close belowPoupart’s ligament; 2, 2, 2, deep femoral artery ; 3, an- terior crural nerve, the figure lies be- tween two superficial epigastric branches of the artery ; 3', superficial circum- flex iliac artery ; 4, 5, external pudic arteries, the deeper arising in this case from the internal circumflex; 6, ex- ternal circumflex artery, with its as- cending, transverse and descending branches separating from it; 6', branch to the rectus muscle; 7, branch to the vastus intemus muscle ; 8 and 9, some of the muscular branches of the femoral; +, origin of the second per- forating artery. 3. The superficial epigas- tric artery, arising from the femoral about half an inch below Poupart’s ligament, passes forwards through the fascia lata (sometimes through the upper part of the saphenous opening) and runs upwards on the abdo- men in the superficial fascia covering the external oblique muscle. Its branches, ascending nearly as high as the umbilicus, anastomose with superficial branches of the deep epigastric artery. 4. The superficial circumflex iliac artery, frequently arising in common with the superficial epigastric, runs outwards across the iliacus muscle, in the direction of Poupart’s ligament, towards the iliac crest. It gives small twigs to the iliacus and sartorius muscles, anastomosing with the deep circumflex iliac artery, and other branches which perforate the fascia lata and supply the integument of the hip. All the preceding arteries give small branches to the lymphatic glands in the groin.