118 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. prominent than the internal malleolus ; internally it forms the outer limit of the ankle joint, and presents a triangular smooth surface for articulation with the astragalus, behind which is a rough depression where a part of the external lateral ligament is attached: its anterior border, after projecting rather abruptly forwards, slopes downwards and Fig. 98. Fig. 99. Fig. 98.—Right fibula from the outside. (A. T.) J ], outer surface of the shaft; 2, head ; 3, styloid process ; 4, external malleolus, the figure is placed opposite its anterior oblique edge ; above this is seen the triangular subcutaneous surface. Fig. 99.—Right fibula from the inside and behind. (A. T.) i 5, articular surface on the head for the tibia; 6, points to the internal surface ; 7, the triangular rough 11'',, surface for the lower interosseous ligament; 8, the ex- ternal malleolar surface for articulation with the astra- galus ; 9, groove behind the external malleolus for the tendons of the peronei muscles ; at a little distance below 6, the medullary foramen. backwards; posteriorly it is marked by a shallow groove traversed by the tendons of the peronei muscles ; externally it is convex and subcutaneous, and a triangular subcuta- neous surface is continued up from it for two or three inches on the shaft. The shaft presents four surfaces, separated by as many prominent lines. Three of these lines are known as borders, the fourth is the interosseous ridge. The anterior border is the most prominent ; it commences at the fore part of the neck, and takes a straight course down the front of the bone as far as the lower fifth, where it bifurcates, the one line running to the front of the malleolus, the other to the back, and enclosing between them the triangular subcutaneous surface. Im- mediately internal to this is the interosseous ridge, so named from giving attachment to the interosseous membrane ; it is close to the anterior border above, but gradually diverges from that as it passes downwards; it termi- nates about an inch and a harif above the ankle-joint in the apex of a triangular sur- face, convex and roughened by the inferior interosseous ligament, fixing it to the tibia. The external border extends the whole length of the bone, from the styloid process to the back of the malleolus, in- clining inwards in its lower half. The remaining border, internal, commences at the inner side of the neck, runs down the shaft for two- thirds of its length, and then ends by joining the interosseous ridge. The surfaces are :—the anterior, between the anterior border and the interosseous ridge, narrow' above, wider below ; it gives origin to the ex- Jn mr