COMPARISON OF THE ARM AND LEG BONES. 131 forwards, in such a manner that the prescapular fossa (supraspinous of man) ■corresponds to the sacral surface of the ilium, the postscapular (infraspinous of man) to the iliac fossa or surface, and the subscapular to the gluteal. (See Flower, “ Osteology of the Mammalia,” and Joum. of Anat., vol iv., 1870.) According to the other view, maintained by Humphry, the prescapular and iliac fossa; are regarded as homologous, and the postscapular fossa as corresponding with the dorsum ilii or gluteal surface, the subscapular surface being represented by the sacral surface of the ilium. (Humphry, in Journ. of Anat., vol. v.: see also Mivart, in Linn. Soc. Trans. 1866, and Rolleston, in the same, 1869.) In the more developed forms of the scapula and ilium, in which the muscular fossae are of large extent, it is almost impossible to trace the relations now referred to ; but in the comparison of the simple forms of these bones which belong to some animals with those of others throughout the series, resemblances are per- ceived which give to the views of Flower the greater share of probability. In such simpler forms of scapula and ilium these bones may be described as three- sided prismatic rods, in which an internal surface is separated from two external surfaces by anterior and posterior ridges, and the two external surfaces are divided by an external ridge which descends from the dorsal extremity of the bones to the cavity of the joints. It is in this external ridge, glenoid in the scapula and cotyloid in the ilium, and which includes in both the attachment of the great extensor muscle of the limb, that the key to the homologies of the bones is probably to be found. Further observations, especially on the disposition ■of the muscles, are necessary to determine this question satisfactorily. Bones of the Limbs.—In making the comparison of the bones composing the limbs themselves, it may be proper to revert to the simpler relations subsisting between the limbs and the trunk or vertebral axis of the body in earlier embryonic life, and to remind the reader that there is a determinate and similar position in which the elements of the limb-forming parts are developed from the side of the vertebral stem or trunk (Humphry). In the very earliest stage, while the embryo still occupies the prone position in the blastoderm, the limbs may be said to bud out laterally from the dorsal plates as flattish semilunar flaps, so that Fig. 109.—Lateral view op Fig. 109. THE HUMAN EMBRYO OF ABOUT SEVEN WEEKS, SHOW- INS THE RUDIMENTARY LIMBS IN THEIR SECOND position. (A. T.) Mag- nified 7 DIAMETERS. r, preaxial or radial and pollex border of the thoracic limb; u, its postaxial or ulnar and little finger border ; t, preaxial or tibial and hallux border of the pelvic limb ; /, its postaxial or fibular and little toe border. they present a dorsal and a ventral surface, coinciding with these respective surfaces of the trunk : but in the next stage, when the limbs come to be folded •against the body in the ventral direction, although the original relation to the trunk is undisturbed, their axes have now come to lie nearly perpendicularly to the transverse plane of the vertebral axis, and the position of the limbs is such that in each there is one border which looks towards the head, and another which looks towards the tail. To these borders of the limbs Huxley and Flower have given the names of preaxial and postaxial respectively, as indicating their posi- tion before and behind the axis of the limbs. When at a somewhat later stage of development, the divisions of the limbs make their appearance, and more especially when the quinquifid division of the digits in the hand and foot becomes perceptible, it is obvious that the thumb and radius in the one limb, and che great toe and tibia in the other, occupy corresponding cephalic and preaxiaL K 2