475 POPLITEAL ARTERY. magnus to the lower border of thepopliteus muscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. Its termination is on a level with the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia. In the first part of its course the popliteal artery inclines slightly from within outwards, over the inner portion of the popliteal surface of the femur, to reach a point behind the middle of the knee-joint, whence it descends vertically to its lower end. Being deeply situated in its whole extent, it is covered at its upper end by the semimembranosus muscle ; for a short distance above the knee it is placed in the popliteal space ; below this it is covered by the gastrocnemius muscle and is also crossed by the plantaris ; and its termination is beneath the upper margin of the soleus muscle. At its commencement the artery lies close to the inner side of the femur, but in descending it is separated by an interval from the some- what hollowed popliteal surface of the bone ; it then rests on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and lastly on the popliteus muscle. Relation to veins.—The.popliteal vein lies close to the artery through- out. At the upper end it is placed to the outer side and somewhat behind, it then gradually crosses over the artery, and below gains the inner side. The vein is frequently double along the lower part of the artery, and more rarely also at the upper part. The short saphenous vein, ascending to join the popliteal, is also placed over the artery in the lower part of the popliteal space. Relation to the nerve.—The internal popliteal nerve lies at first to the outer side of, but much nearer to the surface than, the artery; it afterwards crosses gradually oyer the vessels, and is placed behind and to the inner side of them below the joint. The nerve is separated from the artery throughout its course by the vein. Branches.—The branches of the popliteal artery may be arranged in two sets, viz., the muscular and the articular. A. The muscular branches are divided into a superior and an inferior group. 1. The superior muscular branches, three or four in number, are distributed to the lower parts of the adductor magnus and hamstring muscles, and anastomose with the perforating and upper articular arteries. Small offsets pass from these branches to the internal popliteal nerve and to the skin, and also communicate above with the branches of the per- forating arteries. 2. The inferior muscular or sural arteries, generally two in number, and of considerable size, arise from the back of the popliteal artery, a little above the knee-joint, and enter, one the outer, and the other the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle, which they supply, as well as the plantaris and the upper part of the soleus muscle. Over the surface of the gastrocnemius, on each side and in the middle of the limb, are slender branches, which descend a considerable distance along the calf of the leg and supply the integument. These small vessels {superficial sural) may arise either from the popliteal trunk or from its sural branches. B. The articular arteries are five in number. Two of these pass off nearly at right angles from the popliteal artery, one on each side, above the condyles of the femur ; two others have a similar arrangement below the knee-joint; and the fifth passes directly forwards into the centre of the joint.