394 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. the intervertebral foramina, and, passing along the anterior roots of the nerves, communicate with each other along the middle line by means of ascending and descending branches ; so that, by a succession of anasto- moses, a slender single vessel extends from the one end to the other of the cord. This vessel, or chain of inosculating vessels, supplies the pia mater and the substance of the cord—some branches entering the anterior median fissure. At the lower end of the spinal cord it ends as a slender branch continued downwards on the filum terminale. On a part of the spinal cord near the lower end, and in front of the pos- terior roots of the nerves, may be found another small artery, also derived from the branches ascending on the posterior roots of the nerves. (d) The (;posterior) inferior cerebellar artery (vi), the largest of the branches, arises from the vertebral near the pons, and sometimes from the basilar artery : it turns backwards and outwards over the restiform body and near the lower lateral margin of the fourth ventricle, to enter the fore part of the vallecula, where it divides into two branches. One of these runs backwards in the sulcus between the cerebellar hemisphere and the inferior vermiform process, its offsets being distributed mainly to the latter structure, and anastomosing with those of the opposite artery; while the other inclines outwards and ramifies on the under surface of the hemisphere as far as its outer border, over which the ultimate divisions of both branches anastomose with those of the superior cerebellar artery. Before dividing, this artery gives branches to the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. Varieties.— Origin.—While the vertebral artery arises, in the great majority of cases, on the right side from the subclavian between half an inch and an inch from its beginning, and on the left side from the same trunk as it bends out- wards, its range of origin extends over the whole of the first part of the subclavian artery. In those cases in which the right subclavian artery is given off inde- pendently from the posterior part of the arch of the aorta, the right vertebral artery sometimes arises from the common carotid of the same side. In some rare instances the right vertebral artery has been seen arising from the aorta, between the right subclavian and carotid (p. 358), between the innominate and left carotid (Meckel), or beyond the left subclavian artery and passing to its usual place behind the oesophagus (Hyrtl, Struthers). The left vertebral artery is not unfrequently derived from the aorta, in which case it generally arises between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, but sometimes it is the last of the branches from the arch. Either vertebral artery may as a very rare occurrence arise by two roots, both proceeding from the subclavian artery, or one from the subclavian and one from the aorta or from the inferior thyroid artery. One example of three roots to a vertebral artery (right) is recorded (R. Quain, pi. 24, fig. 2). Course.—The vertebral artery not unfrequently enters the foramen of the fifth or fourth cervical vertebra ; more rarely the third, or even the second. On the other hand, it has been seen to enter the foramen of the seventh vertebra. Size.—One vertebral artery, more frequently the left, is sometimes much larger than the other. Branches.—The vertebral artery has been found, though very rarely, to give off the inferior thyroid or superior intercostal artery. The inferior cerebellar artery is often wanting on one side. The basilar artery (iii), the single trunk formed by the junction of the right and left vertebral arteries, extends from the lower to the upper border of the pons Varolii, along the median groove of which it lies under cover of the arachnoid. The length of this artery is therefore