CRANIAL NERVES. 582 furnished successively to the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart ; in the thorax, additional branches are supplied to the heart, as well as offsets to the lungs and oesophagus ; and in the abdomen, its terminal branches are distributed to the stomach, liver, and other organs. A. Branches of communication. The upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric nerve receives a twig from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; one or two filaments pass between it and the spinal accessory nerve ; and there is sometimes a filament connecting it with the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. The lower ganglion of the pneumo-gastric forms connections with the hypoglossal nerve, with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and with the loop between the first two cervical nerves. B. Branches of distribution . The recurrent or meningeal branch arises from the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric, and passes backwards through the jugular foramen to be distributed to the dura mater in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. The auricular branch (nerve of Arnold) is given off from the ganglion of the root, and, after receiving a filament from the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, runs backwards along the outer boundary of the jugular foramen to an opening near the root of the styloid process. It then traverses the substance of the temporal bone, crosses the aqueduct of Fallopius on its inner side about two lines from the lower end, forming here a communication with the facial nerve, and finally emerges between the external auditory meatus and the mastoid process, where it divides into two parts, the one of which joins the posterior auricular nerve, while the other is distributed to the skin of the back of the pinna, and the lower and back part of the auditory canal. Varieties.—In rare instances, absence of the auricular branch has been observed, or of the communication with the facial nerve. The auricular branch occasionally passes entirely into the facial trunk, and in that case its fibres are probably conveyed to the external ear through the posterior auricular nerve. The pharyngeal branch, often represented by two or even more off- sets, and composed mainly of fibres prolonged from the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve, leaves the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus. It courses inwards over the internal carotid artery, and divides into branches which, conjointly with those derived from the glosso-pharyngeal and the sympathetic, form the jjharyngeal plexus. This plexus often contains one or more small ganglia, and from it filaments pass to the muscles and mucous membrane of the larynx. One slender branch (Ungual branch of the vagus—Luschka) descends from the pharyngeal plexus, receiving its fibres from the pharyngeal branches of both the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric nerves, and joins the hypoglossal nerve as that turns round the occipital artery. Superior laryngeal nerve.—This branch springs from the middle of the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus, and inclines forwards on the inner side of the internal carotid artery towards the larynx. It is joined by fine filaments from the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic and from the pharyngeal plexus, and speedily divides into two branches which are distinguished as external and internal laryngeal. The external laryngeal branch, the smaller of the two, runs downwards