COMMON VERTEBRAL LIGAMENTS. 141 and the curvature of those portions of the column is due principally to the form of the discs. The anterior common ligament (fig. 122, p. 146) is a strong band placed on the front of the bodies of the vertebrae, and reaches from the axis to the firsL bone of the sacrum, becoming broader as it descends. It consists of longitudinal fibres which are dense, firm, and well-marked. The superficial fibres extend from a given vertebra to the fourth or fifth below it; the fibres beneath these pass over the bodies of one or two vertebrae ; whilst the deepest pass only between adjacent vertebra;. The fibres adhere more closely to the intervertebral discs than to the bones, and none are attached over the middle of the bodies, where the ligament is stretched across the transverse depression existing at this part ; and by this means the anterior surface of the column, especially in the thoracic region, is rendered more even. Upon the sides of the bodies there are some fibres which are thin and scattered, and reach from one bone to another. The posterior common ligament is situated within the spinal canal, lying on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae; it extends, from the axis to the sacrum. At its upper extremity it is continuous with the posterior occipito-axial ligament. It is smooth and shining, and Fig. 115.—Tiie bodies of three lumbar vertebrae, seen from Fig. 115. BEHIND, WITH THE POSTERIOR COMMON LIGAMENT. J The arches have been removed by cutting through the pedicles. The narrowing of the posterior common ligament opposite the middle of each body, and its greater width and attachments opposite the intervertebral discs, are represented. is broader at the upper than at the lower part of the spine. In the neck it extends quite across the bodies of the vertebra;, but in the back and loins it is broader opposite the intervertebral discs than at the middle of the bodies, so that its margins present a series of points or dentations with intervening concave spaces. It adheres firmly to the discs and to the contiguous margins of the bodies of the vertebrae, but it is separated from the middle of the bodies by the transverse parts of the large venous plexus. Between the ligament and the dura mater which lines the canal some loose con- nective tissue is interposed. The joints of the articular processes present each a synovial cavity Fig. 116.—The arches of three dorsal vertebras, Fig. 116. SEEN FROM BEFORE. £ The bodies of the vertebrae have been removed by saw- ing through the pedicles, to show the articular capsules and the ligamenta subflava. surrounded by a fibrous capsule. These cap- sules are longer and looser in the cervical than in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The ligamenta subflava are ligaments con- sisting of yellow elastic tissue, which connect the laminae of the vertebrae from the axis downwards. Their fibres are nearly vertical, and are attached superiorly to the anterior surface of the lamina of one vertebra some distance