175 THE KNEE-JOINT. superior tibio-peroneal ligament; 11, upper part of interosseous membrane. the joint. Between the tibia and patella the synovial membrane lies upon a large pad or cushion of fat, on the surface of which it forms two lateral folds (alar ligaments) which fit into the space between the lower part of the patella and the femur, while from the middle of the pad it sends backwards a variably developed process, the mucous ligament, through the joint to the front of the intercondylar fossa. Above the patella the synovial membrane extends upwards for a short distance under the extensor tendon, and the pouch thus formed communicates in most cases more or less freely with a bursa situated here between the tendon and the anterior surface of the femur. Movements, &c.—In order to explain the nature of the movements, it is necessary to state some considerations with regard to the relations of the several parts of the knee-joint to each other. The knee-joint may be regarded as con- sisting of three articulations conjoined, viz., that between the patella and femur, and two others, one between each condyle of the femur and the tibia. In many mammals the synovial membranes of those three joints are either completely distinct or communicate with each other by only small openings ; and this some- times occurs in man. In the human subject the mucous ligament is an indica- tion of this separation of the synovial cavities of the inner and outer joints, and the crucial ligaments may be looked upon as the external and internal lateral ligaments of those two joints respectively. On the cartilage-covered articular Fig. 147. Fig. 147.—The superficial parts of the knee-joint removed, and the external CONDYLE OF THE FEMUR SAWN OFF OBLIQUELY, TOGETHER WITH HALF THE PATELLA, SO AS TO EXPOSE BOTH THE CRUCIAL LIGAMENTS TOGETHER. (A. T.) \ In A, tlie parts are in the position of extension, in B, that of flexion, the figures being designed to show the different states of tension of the cmeial ligaments in these positions. 1, sawn surface of femur; 2, sawn surface of patella; 3, ligamentum patellae; 4, anterior or external crucial ligament, tense in A, and relaxed in B; 5, posterior or internal crucial ligament, partly relaxed in A, tense in B ; 6, internal, and 7, external semilunar fibro- cartilage ; 8, transverse ligament ; 9, articular surface of the tibia, extending behind the external semilunar fibro-cartilage; 10, on the head of the fibula, points to the anterior