INNOMINATE VEINS. 492 angle of union of the internal jugular and subclavian veins, on the left side the thoracic duct, on the right side the right lymphatic duct. The vertebral vein is formed by the union of branches which proceed from the pericranium and the deep muscles lying behind the foramen magnum of the occipital bone, and which anastomose with the the occipital, with the commencement of the deep cervical, and with the posterior spinal veins. It passes downwards with the artery of the same name through the canal formed by the foramina in the transverse processes of the upper six cervical vertebra;, and then, inclining forwards, descends across the subclavian artery, and under cover of the internal jugular vein, to open into the commencement of the innominate vein posteriorly, where its orifice is guarded by a single or double valve (Struthers). The vertebral vein receives in its course downwards several branches from the neighbouring muscles, and branches from the spinal canal issuing by the intervertebral foramina; it communicates freely with the dorsal spinal veins of the neck, and with a venous plexus which surrounds the transverse processes and extends over the anterior surface of the cervical vertebra;; and near its termination it is joined by the anterior vertebral and deep cervical veins, as well as by a small vein from the first intercostal space, which accompanies the superior intercostal artery. The last branch may, however, open independently into the innominate vein (B. G. Morison, Journ. Anat., xiii., 346). The anterior vertebral vein issues from the plexus over the cervical vertebra;, and passes downwards in company with the ascending cervical artery, receiving branches from the prevertebral and scaleni muscles, to join the lower end of the vertebral vein. The deep cervical vein (posterior vertebral), a vessel of large size, commences in the suboccipital region, and descends between the corn- plexus and semispinalis muscles to the lower part of the neck, where it turns forwards below the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, to unite with the vertebral vein just before that enters the innominate trunk. It is joined by the occipital veins and by branches from the deep parts at the back of the neck, and it has numerous com- munications with the dorsal spinal veins. Varieties.—The vertebral vein not unfrequently passes through the foramen in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, or sends a considerable offset through that foramen to join the deep cervical vein. The inferior thyroid veins are of large size, and are formed by branches which emerge from the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, where they anastomose with the superior and middle thyroid veins. They form a plexus on the front of the trachea below the isthmus of the thyroid body, and then descend along that tube, under cover of the sterno-tliyroid muscles, receiving on their way downwards oesophageal, inferior laryngeal and tracheal branches. The vein of the left side joins the left innominate trunk ; that of the right side either terminates in common with the foregoing, or it inclines somewhat outwards across the innominate artery, and opens into the angle of union of the two inno- minate veins, or less frequently into the lower end of the right inno- minate. There is also in some cases an additional median vein descend- ing from the isthmns of the thyroid body.