607 CIRCUMFLEX NERVE. Circumflex nerve.—The circumflex nerve, one of the terminal branches of the posterior cord of the plexus, is placed at first behind the axillary artery, resting- on the subsoapularis muscle. At the lower border of the latter it turns backwards with the posterior circumflex artery, and appears at the back of the shoulder in the quadrilateral space between the two teres muscles, external to the long head of the triceps, where it divides into branches, which are distributed to the deltoid and teres minor muscles, the integument of the shoulder, and the shoulder- joint. Fig. 340.—Distribution of the posterior cutaneous nerves of the shoulder and arm (after Ilirschfeld and Leveille). § 1, supra-acromial branches of the cervical plexus descend- ing on the deltoid muscle ; 2, ascending and 2', descending cutaneous branches of the circumflex nerve ; 3, inferior external cutaneous of the musculo-spiral nerve ; 4, posterior cutaneous branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve to the forearm ; 5, internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral ; 6, intercosto-humeral nerve ; 7, nerve of Wrisberg; 8, 9, posterior branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. (a) The upper branch winds round the surgical neck of the humerus, extending nearly as far as the anterior border of the deltoid muscle, to which it is distributed. One or two cutaneous filaments, penetrating, between the muscular fibres, are bent downwards and supply the integument over the lower part of the muscle. (b) The lower branch supplies offsets to the back part of the deltoid, and furnishes the nerve to the teres minor, which is remarkable in pre- senting a gangliform enlargement. It then turns round the posterior border of the deltoid below the middle, and ramifies in the integu- ment, over the lower two-thirds of that muscle, and over the adjacent part of the triceps muscle. (c) An articular filament for the shoulder- joint arises near the commencement of the nerve, and enters the capsular ligament below- the subscapular muscle. Internal cutaneous nerve.—At its origin from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, this nerve is placed on the inner side of the axillary artery. It becomes cutaneous about the middle of the arm, and, after perforating the fascia, or, in some cases, before doing so, is divided into two parts ; one destined for the anterior, the other for the posterior surface of the forearm. (a) The anterior branch crosses at the bend of the elbow behind (less frequently over) the median-basilic vein, and distributes filaments in front of the forearm, as far as the wrist; one of these is, in some instances, joined with a cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. (b) The posterior branch inclines obliquely downwards at the inner side of the basilic vein, and winding to the back of the limb, over the