ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIME. 151 thin fibrous cord, which passes from the point of the styloid process to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, and suspends that bone from the styloid process. A considerable portion of the stylo-hyoid ligament is sometimes converted into bone in the human subject, and in many animals it is naturally osseous, constituting the e2rihyal bone. Movements.—The jaw is capable of movements of elevation and depression, and of protrusion and retraction ; but it is to be observed that when the jaw is depressed, as in opening the mouth, the condyle advances from the glenoid cavity so as to be placed on the articular eminence in front of it. The movements which take place in the superior and inferior compartments of the joint are of different kinds. In the upper the fibro-cartilage glides forwards and backwards on the temporal bone ; in the lower compartment the condyle rotates on a trans- verse axis against the fibro-cartilage. In opening the mouth the two movements are combined : the jaw and fibro-cartilage together move forwards and rest on the convex root of the zygoma, while at the same time the condyle revolves on the fibro-cartilage. When the lower incisors are protruded beyond those of the upper jaw, the movement is confined chiefly to the upper articulation ; and when the same movement is alternately performed in the joints of opposite sides a hori- zontal oblique or grinding motion is produced. The fibres of the external lateral ligament remain tight hi opening the mouth, owing to the descent of the condyle when it passes forwards on to the articular eminence. AETICULATIONTS OF THE UPPEB, LIMB. THE SCAPULO-CLAVICULAR, ARCH. The supporting arch of the upper limb has only one point of attach- ment to the skeleton of the trunk, namely, at the sterno-clavicular arti- culation ; the scapula being connected with the trunk only by muscles. The clavicle articulates at its inner end with the first bone of the sternum, and is connected by ligaments to its fellow of the opposite side and to the first rib. At its outer end it is united to the scapula. Sterno-C lavic ular Articulation.—The articular surface of the inner end of the clavicle is considerably larger than the opposing surface of the sternum. Between the two bones an interarticular fibro-cartilage is interposed. The anterior sterno-clavicular ligament, broad and consisting of parallel fibres, passes from the front of the inner extremity of the clavicle, downwards and inwards, to the anterior surface of the manubrium. The posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, on the posterior aspect of the joint, is of similar conformation to the anterior ligament, but is not so strongly marked. The interclavicular ligament is a dense fasciculus of fibres passing between the sternal ends of the clavicles. It dips downwards in the middle, where it is attached to the interclavicular notch of the sternum. The interarticular fibro-cartilage, nearly circular in form, and thicker above and at its margins than at the centre, is interposed between the articular surfaces of the two bones. Superiorly it is attached to the upper part of the inner extremity of the clavicle, and interiorly to the cartilage of the first rib. In the latter situation it is thin and prolonged outwards, beneath the lower border of the clavicle. Synovial cavities.—In this articulation, as in that of the lower jaw, there are two synovial cavities, one on each side of the inter- articular fibro-cartilage.