513 AZYGOS VEINS. communication below, either directly or indirectly, with the common iliac vein. It is also joined in many cases hy a branch which Ficr. 298.—Sketch op the principal systemic VENOUS TRUNKS, (A. T). t SHOWING THE AZYGOS VEINS. Fig. 298. For the detailed description of this figure see p. 491. The following indications relate to the accom- panying part of the text: 8, left superior intercostal vein, continued below into the left upper azygos vein ; the superior intercostal vein of the right side is seen passing downwards into the large azygos vein ; 9, 9, 9, large azygos vein ; 9', left lower azygos vein; 10, thoracic duct; 11, inferior vena cava; 12, union of a branch of the left lower azygos with the left renal vein ; 13, 13', right and left ascending lumbar veins, continued upwards into the corres- ponding azygos veins ; 15, union of lumbar, ilio- lumbar, and sacral veins. opens distally into the inferior vena cava, or into the renal vein, and occa- sionally it takes its origin solely in this way. Passing from the abdomen into the thorax through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, or to the outer side of that opening through the fibres of the right crus, the azygos vein ascends on the bodies of the dorsal vertebra? to the level of the fifth rib, where it arches forwards over the root of the right lung, and then opens into the superior vena cava, immediately above the point at which that vessel perforates the pericardium. When passing through the opening in the diaphragm, this vein is accompanied by the thoracic duct, both being situated on the right side of the aorta. In the thorax, maintaining the same position with respect to the duct and the aorta, it passes in front of the inter- costal arteries, and is covered by the pleura. It receives the intercostal veins of the right side, with the exception of that from the first space, the upper two or three of these vessels being united into a short common trunk which is known as the superior intercostal vein (p. 493), and which opens into the commencement of the arch of the azygos vein. It is also joined by the left azygos veins, by the right bronchial vein, and by several small oesophageal, peri- cardial, and posterior mediastinal veins. The left lower or small azygos vein (v. hemiazygos) commences as the ascend- ing lumbar vein of the left side, or frequently by a communication with the VOL. i. ‘SI m-t, T corresponding renal vein, L L