116 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. is a slight roughness where the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles are inserted. It is separated from the external surface by a sharp, slightly sinuous ridge, the anterior border or crest, which descends from the tubercle, and is smoothed away in the inferior Eig. 96. Fig. 96.—Right tibia from before. (A. T.) i 6' 1, shaft, and crest or anterior border ; 2, inner tube- rosity ; 3, outer tuberosity; 4, inner, and 5 outer, con- dylar articular surface ; 6, spine, with fossa at its root in front ; 7, tubercle ; 8, lower articular surface for as- tragalus ; 9, internal malleolus. third of the bone. The external surface is slightly hollowed in the larger part of its extent, where it gives origin to the tibialis anticus muscle ; but beneath the point where the crest disappears it turns forwards, be- comes convex, and is covered by the extensor tendons. The j'posterior surface is crossed obliquely in its upper third by a rough line, the popliteal, or oblique line, which runs down- wards and inwards from the outer tuberosity, and gives origin to the soleus muscle : above this is a triangular area occupied by the popliteus muscle, while below the line, in the middle third of the shaft, a longitudinal ridge divides the surface into two portions, an inner giving origin to the flexor longus digi- torum, and an outer, larger, to the tibialis posticLs. blear the oblique line is a large medullary foramen directed downwards into the bone. The posterior surface is separated from the internal by a smooth rounded in- ternal border, and from the outer surface, by the external border, a sharp ridge, inclined forwards above, to which the interosseous membrane is attached. The inferior extremity, much smaller than the superior, is expanded transversely, and projects downwards on its inner side, so as to form a thick process, the internal malleolus. Interiorly it presents for articulation with the astragalus a cartilaginous surface, which is quadrilateral, concave from before back- wards, and having its posterior border nar- rower and projecting farther downwards than the anterior; internally the cartilaginous sur- face is continued down in a vertical direc- tion upon the internal malleolus, clothing its outer surface somewhat more deeply in front than behind. The external surface is concave, and mostly rough for ligament, but along the lower border is a narrow surface which is smooth and cartilage-covered for articulation with the fibula. The posterior surface of the internal malleolus is marked by a double groove for the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus