SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 3S7 c c 2 system of arteries; the other ramifies in the pia mater, and is distributed to the grey matter of the convolutions and the subjacent white matter ; it is called the cortical system of arteries. These two systems are to a great extent independent of each other, the vessels which connect them being few in number, and of almost capillary minuteness. Moreover, not only are the two systems thus distinct, but the primary branches of the several arteries are also limited in their distribution to certain well-defined areas, and their communications are few and small, so as to render these areas practically independent territories. The same remark applies, in a less degree, however, to the secondary, and even tertiary divisions of these arteries. The anterior cerebral artery has a very limited central distribution, giving only a few small branches (and these liable to much variation as to size and number) to the anterior extremity of the caudate nucleus. Its cortical branches are three or four small arteries to the orbital portion of the first frontal convolution, supply- ing also the olfactory lobe, and three terminal branches which arise on the upper surface of the corpus callosum near its anterior end. The first of these is dis- tributed to the lower part of the marginal convolution and the first and second frontal convolutions ; the second to the callosal convolution and the upper part of the marginal convolution ; and the third supplies the quadrate lobule and gives off the artery of the corpus callosum, which runs backwards on the upper surface of that body to its posterior extremity. The middle cerebral artery immediately after leaving the internal carotid gives off a number of small vessels which pass directly upwards, parallel to each other, into the foramina of the anterior perforated spot, and enter the base of the corpus striatum. They are distributed to the lenticular nucleus of that body, to the pos- terior part of the caudate nucleus, and the neighbouring portion of the optic thalamus. The main trunk of the middle cerebral passes upwards and outwards in the fissure of Sylvius until it reaches the island of Reil, on the surface of which it divides into four branches. The first branch is limited in its distribution to the outer part of the orbital surface of the hemisphere and the adjacent inferior frontal con- volution ; the second branch supplies the chief part of the ascending frontal con- volution ; the third branch passes in the fissure of Rolando to the rest of the ascending frontal and to the ascending parietal convolution, and to the ante- rior part of the superior parietal lobule ; and the fourth, lying in the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius, supplies the inferior parietal lobule, and the superior temporo-sphenoidal convolution. The posterior cerebral artery (the origin and cour se of which are described at p. 395) gives off a number of twigs over the posterior perforated spot, and others as it passes round the crus cerebri, both of which sets pass into the optic thalamus, crus cerebri and corpora quadrigemina, and one or two posterior choroid arteries to the upper part of the choroid plexus. The cortical branches are three in num- ber : the first is distributed to the anterior part of the uncinate gyrus and its immediate vicinity ; the second branch supplies the middle part of the uncinate, the lower occipito-temporal, and the lower temporo-sphenoidal convolutions ; the third, lying in the calcarine fissure, supplies the occipital lobe on its inner and outer surfaces. (Heubner, Centralbl. f. d. med. Wissensch. 1872 ; H. Duret, Arch, de Physiol. 1874.) SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The subclavian artery is the first portion of a long trunk which forms the main artery of the upper limb, and which is artificially divided for purposes of description into three parts, named the subclavian, axillary, and brachial arteries. The subclavian artery, arising on the right side from the extremity of the innominate stem, and on the left from the arch of the aorta, passes a short way up into the neck, arches outwards over the pleura and lung, and rests between the scalenus anticus and scalenus medius muscles on the first rib. At the outer border of the first rib it ceases to be called