GLUTEAL NERVES. 635 to the divided small sciatic or posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh; 6. great sciatic nerve; 6', 6', some of its muscular branches to the hamstrings ; 7, internal popliteal nerve-; 7', its muscular or sural branches ; 8, external popliteal nerve ; 8', its external cutaneous branch ; 9, communicating tibial ; 9', communicating peroneal branch to the external saphenous nerve. Superior gluteal nerve.—The superior gluteal nerve arises from the lumbosacral cord and the first sacral nerve. It leaves the pelvis with the gluteal vessels through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, above the pyriformis muscle, and immediately divides into two branches, which run forwards between the gluteus medius and minimus, supplying those muscles and the tensor vaginae femoris. {a) The upper branch is the smaller and more superficial; it sends its offsets solely to the gluteus medius. (b) The tower branch crosses the middle of the gluteus minimus muscle with the lower branch of the gluteal artery ; it sends branches to both the gluteus medius and minimus, and generally perforates the fore part of the latter muscle to reach the deep surface of the tensor vaginae femoris, in which it ends. Variety.—The superior gluteal nerve sometimes sends a branch to the pyriformis muscle. Inferior gluteal nerve.—The inferior gluteal nerve arises from the back of the plexus, being formed of fibres which are derived from the lumbo-sacral cord, the first and second sacral nerves. ' It usually sends a branch downwards to join the commencement of the small sciatic nerve, and sometimes the two nerves are more closely connected at their origins. The inferior gluteal nerve turns backwards at the lower border ■of the pyriformis muscle, and immediately divides into a number of branches which, diverging upwards and downwards, enter the deep surface of the gluteus maximus muscle about midway between its origin and insertion. Small sciatic nerve-—The small sciatic nerve (nervus iscliiadicus minor, posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh) is entirely a sensory nerve, supplying the integument of the lower part of the buttock, the back of the thigh, and the upper part of the back of the leg ; it also furnishes one branch to the perineum—the inferior pudendal nerve. The nerve takes its origin usually by two roots from the back of the second and third sacral nerves, and receives also a descending branch from the inferior gluteal nerve. Emerging below the pyriformis. muscle, it descends beneath the gluteus maximus muscle, resting on the great sciatic nerve, and then along the back of the thigh under cover of the fascia lata to a little beyond the knee. Here it becomes sub- cutaneous, and its terminal ramifications are distributed to the skin of the calf, one branch accompanying the short saphenous vein and forming a communication with the external saphenous nerve. Branches.—(a) The glureal cutaneous branches are two or three in number, and bend upwards over the lower border of the gluteus maximus muscle, to be distributed to the skin of the lower and outer part of the gluteal region. (5) The inferior pudendal nerve turns inwards below the ischial tuberosity, giving offsets (sometimes separate branches of the nerve) to the skin of the upper and inner part of the thigh, and is continued for- wards to the outer part of the scrotum (or external labium pudendi).