225 MUSCLES AND FASCLZE OF THE HAND. The fascia of the palm consists of a central part which is thick and strong, and of two lateral portions, which are very thin and cover the short muscles of the thumb and little finger. The central portion is that commonly referred to under the name of the palmar fascia. Consisting principally of longitudinal fibres which are in largest part continued from the tendon of the palmaris longus, others however springing from the front of the annular ligament, it is narrow above and becomes expanded and thinner below. Here it divides into four processes which pass to the bases of the several fingers, and join the commencement of the digital sheaths, sending some fibres also to the integument at the clefts of the fingers, and to the superficial transverse ligament. From the sides of these processes, moreover, offsets are sent backwards to be attached to the transverse metacarpal ligament opposite the lateral margins of the heads of the metacarpal bones, and thus above each finger a short canal is formed in which the flexor tendons run. In the intervals between the processes some deeper transverse fibres make their appearance, covering the lumbricales muscles and the digital ves- sels and nerves. At the lower margin of the palm a superficial band of transverse fibres, which stretches across the roots of the four fingers, being contained in the folds of skin at the upper ends of the clefts, is known as the superficial transverse ligament of the fingers. There is also deeply placed in the palm a thin layer of fascia which covers the inter- osseous muscles, and dipping between them is attached to the palmar ridges of the metacarpal bones, while interiorly it becomes continuous with the transverse metacarpal ligament. From the deep surface of the palmar fascia a thin septum is sent backwards on each side between the flexor tendons and the thumb and little finger muscles respectively, and these, joining the fascia covering the interosseous muscles, complete a sheath in which the tendons are contained in their passage through the palm. Cutaneous ligaments of the phalanges.—Under this name Professor Cleland has described some fibrous bands which spring from the edges of the phalanges and are inserted into the skin of the sides of the fingers, and which serve the purpose of retaining the skin in position during flexion of the joints (Joum. Anat. xii. 526). Muscles.—Besides the tendons of the long muscles and the lumbri- cales already described, there are placed in the hand one superficial muscle called palmaris brevis, the short muscles of the thumb and little finger, and the interosseous muscles. The palmaris brevis (fig. 165, 16) is a thin flat subcutaneous muscle, which arises from the inner margin of the palmar fascia and the annular ligament; its fibres pass transversely inwards, and are in- serted into the skin along the inner border of the palm. Relations.—The palmaris brevis crosses the muscles of the little finger and covers the ulnar vessels and nerve. Muscles of the thumb.—The fleshy mass which forms the thenar eminence, or ball of the thumb, consists of four muscles. The abductor pollicis muscle, superficial and flat, arises mainly from the front of the annular ligament, a few of the outer fibres being- attached sometimes to the ridge iff the trapezium or the tubercle of the scaphoid; proceeding downwards and outwards, it is inserted by a tendon into the radial border of the first phalanx of the thumb at its base. VOL. I. Q