417 ULNAR ARTERY. forearm ; but as the vessel inclines inwards, it approaches the nerve, and is accompanied by it in the lower half or more of its course—the nerve lying close to its inner side. The small palmar cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve descends upon the lower part of the artery. Branches.—The ulnar artery in the forearm gives numerous muscular branches, of small size, to the surrounding muscles, and the following named offsets, viz.:—- 1. The anterior ulnar recurrent artery, a small branch, arches in- wards and upwards from the upper part of the ulnar artery, in front of the inner condyle, lying on the brachialis anticus muscle, and covered by the pronator teres, both of which muscles it partly supplies. It ends by communicating with the anastomotic branch of the brachial. 2. The posterior ulnar recurrent artery, larger than the preced- ing, comes off a little lower down ; but not unfrequeutly the two vessels arise by a short common trunk. The posterior recurrent runs inwards and backwards beneath the flexor sublimis, and then ascends behind the inner condyle. In the interval between that process and the olecranon it lies beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris, and, passing between the heads of Fig. 253.—The anastomoses OP THE ELBOW : A, FROM BEFORE ; B, FROM BEHIND (from R. Quain). ^ Fig. 253. A. a, brachialis anticus mus- cle ; b, external condyle, covered by the anastomoses of the su- perior profunda and radial re- current arteries ; c, ulnar nerve ; d, median nerve; e, musculo- spiral nerve ; e, its posterior interosseous branch ; its radial branch is cut short; 1, brachial artery ; 2, radial artery ; 3, ulnar artery ; 4, inferior pro- funda ; 5, anastomotic ; 6, anterior ulnar recurrent, anasto- mosing with the anterior de- scending branch of the anasto- motic ; 7, posterior ulnar re- current, passing up behind the inner condyle to anastomose with the inferior profunda and pos- terior branch of the anastomotic; 8, anterior terminal branch of the superior profunda ; 9, on the tendon of the biceps muscle, points to the radial recurrent artery; 10, 10, interosseous artery and its anterior branch. B. a, part of the brachialis anticus muscle; b, external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint ; c, ulnar nerve ; d, a small part of the musculo-spiral nerve ; 1, superior profunda artery; 2, branch which descends in the inner head of the triceps muscle ; 3, its posterior terminal branch ; 4, branches of the radial recurrent ; 5, posterior interosseous recurrent, passing up to anas- tomose with the preceding and with the posterior ulnar recurrent ; 6, inferior profunda ; 7, 7, anastomotic artery ; 8, anastomosis of the inferior profunda and anastomotic with the superior profunda ; 9, posterior ulnar recurrent, passing up with the ulnar nerve to anastomose with the inferior profunda and anastomotic. VOL. i. E E