65 INTERIOR OF TEE CRANIUM. of which the diploe is entirely absent; the bone is also thin and com- pact in the middle part of the inferior occipital fossae, and in the squama and glenoid fossa of the temporal. The upper part of the cranial cavity consists of a single vaulted dome formed by the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones. It is marked by the superior longitudinal groove, by shallow cerebral impressions, by small ramified meningeal grooves, and by Pacchionian fossae of varying Fig. 54. Fig. 54.—Sagittal section op the adult skull a little to the left op the middle line. (A. T.) £ 1, nasal bone; 2, perpendicular plate of the ethmoid with olfactory foramina and grooves at its upper part; 3, vomer ; 4, right superior maxillary bone, forming part of the wall of the right nasal fossa ; below this, the anterior extremity of the right inferior tur- binate bone overhanging x , which is the right inferior meatus of the nose ; 5, crista galli; 6, inner surface of the frontal bone ; 7, of the parietal bone ; 8, squamous part of the temporal; 9, on the occipital bone below the internal occipital protuberance ; 10, external occipital protuberance ; 11, on the condylar process below the anterior condylar foramen ; 12, on the posterior surface of the petrous below the internal auditory meatus ; between 9 and 12, the groove of the right lateral sinus ; 13, placed above the sella turcica; 14, left frontal sinus ; 15, loft sphenoidal sinus, the figure being placed on the sphenoidal septum ; 16, hard palate and alveolar arch—the figure is placed near the lower opening of the pos- terior palatine canal, and the grooves which extend forwards from it; 17, anterior nasal spine ; 18, section of the left superior maxillary bone, and near the place to which the line points, the section of the anterior palatine canal; 19, on the inner surface of the ramus of the lower jaw,below the sigmoid notch, and above the inferior dental foramen ; 20, inner surface of the body of the jaw on the mylo-liyoid ridge ; 21, surface of section of the lower jaw to the left of the symphysis ; behind the symphysis, and between 21 and 22, the mental spines ; 23, mylo-hyoid groove. VOL. i. F