MUSCLES UE THE LOWER LIMB. 232 cornu, the most completely defined part of the margin, lies in the angle between the internal saphenous and the femoral veins, below their junction ; while the superior cornu forms a larger curve, the inner ex- tremity of which, often called femoral ligament, passing completely to the inner side of the femoral sheath, is attached to the front of Gimber- nat’s ligament. It is customary to call the parts of the fascia lata which are placed external and internal to the saphenous opening the iliac and pubic portions. The iliac portion is intimately connected above with Pou- part’s ligament, as well as with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, and internally forms the falciform margin of the saphe- nous opening; the pubic portion, attached superiorly to the ilio-pectineal line, passes on its outer side deeply behind the sheath of the vessels, with which it is connected, and is continued into the iliac fascia to be subse- quently described. The fascia lata is perforated in many places by foramina, which allow the passage of the cutaneous nerves and blood-vessels. The fascia lata has various deep processes. One of these, leaving the main fascia at the insertion of the tensor vaginae femoris muscle, passes upwards on the inner side of that muscle as a strong flat band on the surface of the vastus externus, and is attached superiorly to the ilium above the origin of the posterior head of the rectus femoris, with which also it is closely connected. Two processes, the external and internal intermuscular septa, bind the fascia to the femur in the lower part of the thigh: the external septum, situated between the vastus externus and crureus in front and the short head of the biceps behind, is inserted into the linea aspera from the lower border of the tendon of the gluteus maximus to the outer condyle of the bone : the internal septum, which is much thinner, is inserted into the femur between the vastus interims and the adductor magnus, becoming blended with the tendinous attach- ments of those muscles. Sheath of the Femoral Vessels.—The femoral vessels are surrounded by an investment of fascia, which in its upper part is particularly dis- tinct and receives the name of the crural sheath. This sheath, com- mencing at the deep crural arch, is continuous with the transversalis fascia and iliac fascia of the cavity of the abdomen. Its outer border descends in contact with the artery, while its inner border is inclined outwards from the margin of Gimbernat’s ligament, and comes in con- tact with the vein at the distance of less than an inch lower down : the sheath is therefore funnel-shaped. It is divided into three compart- ments, separated by thin septa : the outermost contains the artery, the middle one the vein, and the innermost forms a space occupied at its upper end by the crural ring, and in which there is generally a lymphatic gland and some fat. Through this passage a femoral hernia descends, and on this account it has been named the femoral or crural canal. (See later, the special account of Hernia). MUSCLES OP THE HIP. The muscles of this region are the three glutei, the tensor vaginae femoris, the pyriformis, the obturator internus with the gemelli, the obturator externus, and the quadratus femoris. The gluteus maximus is a very large and coarsely fasciculated