571 FACIAL NERVE. by the stylo-mastoid foramen. At the place where it turns backwards (genu), the nerve presents on its fore part a reddish enlargement which contains numerous nerve-cels, and is named the geniculate ganglion Fig. 324.—Tiie facial nerve IN ITS CANAL, WITH ITS CON- NECTING BRANCHES, &C. (fl'Oni Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveille). I The mastoid and a part of the petrous bone have been divided nearly vertically, and the canal of the facial nerve opened in its whole extent from the internal meatus to the stylo-mastoid fora- men ; the Vidian canal has also been opened from the outside: 1, facial nerve in the first horizontal part of its course ; 2, its second part turning backwards; 3, its vertical portion ; 4, the nerve at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen ; 5, geniculate ganglion ; 6, large superficial petrosal nerve ; 7, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 8, small superficial petrosal nerve ; 9, chorda tympani : 10, posterior auricular branch cut short; 11, branch to the digastric muscle; 12, branch to the stylo-hyoid muscle ; 13, twig uniting with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (lland 15). (intumesceutia ganglioformis). Below the skull, the trunk is continued downwards and forwards through the substance of the parotid gland, and a little behind the ramus of the lower jaw it terminates by dividing into Fig. 325.—Geniculate ganglion of the FACIAI. NERVE AND ITS CONNECTIONS from above (from Bidder). The dissection is made in the middle fossa of the skull on the right side ; part of the temporal bone being removed so as to open the internal auditory meatus, hiatus Fallopii, and a part of the canal of the facial nerve, together with the cavity of the tympanum : «, auricle ; b, middle fossa of the skull with the menin- geal artery ramifying in it ; 1, facial and auditory nerves in the internal auditory meatus ; 2, large superficial petrosal nerve ; 3, small superficial petrosal nerve lying over the tensor tympani muscle ; 4, external superficial petrosal nerve joining sympathetic twigs on the meningeal artery ; 5, facial and chorda tympani ; 6, nerves entering the jugular fora- men. two parts, temporo-facial and cervico-facial, from which numerous branches spread over the side of the head, the face, and the upper part of the neck, communicating freely with one another, and thus forming a radiating plexus to wrhich the name of pes anserinus is given.