HOMOLOGIES OF THE BOXES OF THE HEAD. 77 sion that they may be looked upon as consisting' mainly of three sets of parts, viz.: 1st, Basal or central parts, comprising the basioccipital, basisphenoid, presphenoid and mesethmoid, which form a series prolonged forwards in the line of the vertebral axis, and constituting a cranio-facial axis ; 2nd, Superior arches, Fig. 64. Fig. 64.—Diagrammatic view of the bones in the right haIf of a fcetal skull FROM THE INSIDE. (A. T.) In this figure the bones have been slightly separated and displaced so as to bring the whole into one view : /, frontal : pa, parietal; so, supraoccipital; n, nasal; l, lachry- mal ; ma, malar ; os, orbitosphenoid ; as, alisphenoid ; sq, squamosal ; zy, zygomatic ; per, periotic ; eo, exoccipital ; et, ethmoturbinal; mx, maxilla ; mt, maxilloturbinal; pm, premaxillary; me, mesethmoid ; r, vomer ; pi, palatal; pt, pterygoid ; ps, pre- sphenoid ; bs, basisphenoid; bo, basioccipital ; c, bodies of 2nd, 3rd, and 4tli cervical vertebrae ; c', odontoid process ; x, anterior arch of atlas ; s, spinous processes of 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th cervical vertebrae ; cm, neural canal; ch, a line indicating the position of the notochord passing through the vertebral bodies into base of the cranium, bs ; ty, tympanic, along with ml, i, and st, displaced from its connection with per ; ml, malleus ; c. mk, cartilage of Meckel ; mn, mandible ; i, incus ; st, stapes ; sth, stylohyal; ch, ceratohyal; th, thyrohyal ; bh, basihyal; t, thyroid cartilage. enclosing the brain, and consisting generally of more or less expanded bones, viz., the exoccipital and supraoccipital together with the interparietal, the alisphenoids, squamosals and parietals, the orbitosphenoids and frontals ; and 3rd, Inferior arches, surrounding the visceral cavity as represented by the nose, mouth, and pharynx ; these include the pterygoids, palatals and maxillae in a first arch, the mandible and the malleus of the internal ear in a second, the basi-, cerato-, epi-, stylo- and tympanohyals in a third, whilst the thyrohyals are the rudiments of a fourth. To these succeed in the lowest vertebrates the series of