595 POSTERIOR DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. plexus have been divided in the neck, and the erector spin® separated and partially removed in the back, so as to expose the deep portions of the nerves. a, a, small occipital nerve from the cervical plexus ; 1, muscular branches of the first cervical nerve and union by a loop -with the second ; 2, placed on the rectus capitis posticus major, marks the great occipital nerve passing round the inferior oblique muscle and piercing the complexus ; the external branch is seen to the outside ; 2', cranial dis- tribution of the great occipital; 3, external branch of the posterior primary division of the third nerve ; 3', its internal branch, or third occipital nerve ; 4', 5', 6', 7', 8', internal branches of the several corresponding nerves on the left side ; the external branches of these nerves proceeding to muscles are displayed on the right side ; d 1 to d 6, and thence to d 12, external muscular branches of the posterior primary divisions of the twelve dorsal nerves on the right side ; d 1', to d 6', the internal cutaneous branches of the six upper ■dorsal nerves on the left side ; d 7' to d 12', cutaneous branches of the six lower dorsal nerves from the external branches ; l, l, external branches of the posterior primary branches of several lumbar nerves on the right side piercing the muscles, the lower descending over the gluteal region ; l', l', the same more superficially on the left side ; s, s, on the right side, the issue and union by loops of the posterior primary divisions of four sacral nerves •, s', s', some of these distributed to the skin on the left side. giving offsets to those muscles and to the multifidus, and, having reached the spines of the vertebral, turn transversely outwards and are distributed iu the integument over the trapezius muscle. From the cutaneous branch of the third nerve a branch passes upwards to the integument on the lower part of the occiput, lying at the inner side of the great occipital nerve, and this is sometimes called the third occipital nerve. Between the inner branches of the first three cervical nerves, beneath the complexus, there are frequently communicating fasciculi; this communication has been designated by Cruveilhier the posterior cervical plexus. The internal branches from the lowest three cervical nerves are placed beneath the scmispinalis muscle, and end in the muscular structure, without furnishing (except occasionally the sixth) any offset to the skin. These three nerves are the smallest of the series. The great occipital nerve is directed upwards across the inferior oblique muscle, and is transmitted to the surface through the complexus and trapezius muscles, giving twigs to the complexus. Ascending with the occipital artery, it divides into branches which radiate over the back of the head, the most external communicating with the small occipital nerve. Dorsal nerves.—The external brandies increase in size from above downwards. They are directed through or beneath the longis- simus dorsi to the space between that muscle and the ilio-costalis or accessorius, and supply the several divisions of the erector spinas. The lower five or six nerves give cutaneous twigs, which are transmitted to the integument in a line with the angles of the ribs. The internal branches of the upper six or seven dorsal nerves appear in the interval between the multifidus spinas and the semispinalis muscle; they supply the transverso-spinales muscles, and become cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes of the vertebras. The cutaneous branch of the second nerve, and sometimes others, extend outwards over the scapula. The internal branches of the lower dorsal nerves are placed between the multifidus spinas and longissimus dorsi, and end in the multifidus without giving branches to the integument. Where cutaneous nerves are supplied by the internal branches, there are Q q 2