215 FLEXOR SUBLIMIS DIGITORUM. Relations.—This muscle rests on the flexor profundus digitorum. The ulnar nerve and the posterior ulnar recurrent artery pass between the two heads of origin and the nerve is then covered by the muscle as far as the wrist, as is also the ulnar artery below the middle of the forearm. The flexor siiblimis digitorum or flexor perforatus, the super- ficial flexor of the fingers, is a broad flat muscle placed behind the pre- ceding muscles. It arises from the inner condyle by the common tendon, and the fibrous septa common to it and the other muscles ; from the internal lateral ligament; from the inner margin of the coronoid process; and by a thin flat portion from the oblique line and part of the anterior border of the radius. It is divided interiorly into four parts, ending in as many tendons, which pass to be inserted into the second phalanx of each of the four inner digits. These tendons pass under the annular ligament of the wrist in pairs ; the anterior pair consisting of those for the middle and ring fingers, the posterior of those for the index and little fingers. That for the little finger is much smaller than the others. In the palm of the hand the tendons diverge, and each, accom- panied by a tendon of the flexor profundus, enters a fibrous sheath which binds both tendons down to the palmar surface of the phalanges. Opposite the first phalanx the tendon of the flexor sublimis divides into two parts, which fold closely round the tendon of the deep flexor, and are reunited by their margins behind it: the two portions of the tendon thereafter separating, pass to be inserted one on each side into a ridge at the middle of the lateral border of the second phalanx. Relations.—In the forearm the flexor sublimis is for the most part concealed by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus ; but between the last muscle and the flexor carpi ulnaris a narrow strip is superficial from the in- ternal condyle down to the annular ligament. Its radial origin is crossed by the radial artery. It rests on the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus digi- torum, the median nerve, and the ulnar artery. In the palm of the hand, its tendons are covered by the palmar fascia, the superficial palmar arterial arch, and the branches of the median nerve ; and they lie in front of the accompanying tendons of the flexor profundus. Varieties.—The radial origin of the flexor sublimis is sometimes wanting. The body of the muscle is occasionally subdivided, so that each of the four tendons has a distinct muscular belly ; this happens most frequently with the radial and the little finger parts. The tendon to the little finger is sometimes absent. A muscular slip is frequently given from this muscle to the flexor pro- fundus, or to the flexor longus pollicis. The deep-seated muscles of the front of the forearm are the flexor profundus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, and pronator quadratus. The flexor profundus digitorum, or flexor perforans, a large and thick muscle, arises from the inner and anterior surfaces of the ulna for three-fourths of its length ; from the ulnar half of the interosseous membrane for the same distance ; and from the aponeurosis attaching the flexor carpi ulnaris to the ulna. It divides inferiorly into four tendons, only one of which, that for the index finger, is distinct from the others above the wrist—the rest being connected together as far as the palm. In the palm the tendons, as they diverge, give origin to the lumbricales muscles. In front of the fingers they are bound to the first and second phalanges by the sheath common to them and the perforated tendons. Opposite the first phalanx, the tendon of each finger passes