LINGUAL ARTERY. 369 beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the mucous mem- brane of the dorsum, and the substance of the tongue, as well as the tonsil, ramifying as far back as the epiglottis, and communicating around the foramen caecum with the corresponding branch of the opposite side. (c) The sublingual branch. Taking origin at the anterior margin of the hyo-glossus, this branch runs forwards between the genio-glossus muscle and the sublingual gland. It supplies the substance of the gland, and gives branches to the mylo-hyoid and other muscles connected with the tower jaw. Small branches are also distributed to the mucous membrane of the mouth and the inside of the gum, and a considerable offset anastomoses across the middle line with the artery of the other side. ((/) The ranine artery passes forwards with a tortuous course, giving numerous branches as it proceeds, and being for the most part embedded in the substance of the tongue between the genio-glossus and inferior lingualis muscles. Near the tip of the tongue it communicates with the opposite ranine artery in a small loop (Krause), but with this exception the right and left arteries do not form other than capillary anastomoses. In the last part of its course the ranine artery lies quite superficially, at the side of the framiun. Varieties.—The lingual artery is often united at its origin with the facial; less frequently with the superior thyroid ; and the three vessels occasionally arise by a common trunk. Instead of passing beneath the hinder border of the hyo- glossus the artery sometimes pierces the origin of the muscle. The lingual artery has been seen replaced entirely or in large part by a branch of the internal maxillary, or of the submental branch of the facial. The hyoid branch is often absent; and it appears that this branch varies in size inversely with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. The sublingual branch is sometimes derived from the facial artery, and then perforates the mylo-hyoid muscle. The lingual artery has been observed to give off, as unusual branches, the superior laryngeal, the submental, and the ascending palatine. Surgical anatomy.—The lingual artery may be tied either in the carotid triangle, before it passes under the digastric muscle, or farther forwards, while it is beneath the hyo-glossus; preferably in the latter situation, since its place of origin is subject to variation and its relation to the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone is therefore not constant. To reach the artery in the submaxillary triangle, a curved incision, reaching from a point a little outside the symphysis nearly to the angle of the lower jaw and descending in the middle to the hyoid bone, is made through the integuments, the platysma and the deep fascia, and the submaxillary gland is drawn upwards, when the intermediate tendon of the digastric is brought into view, together with portions of its two bellies, and the lower end of the stylo-hyoid muscle. Crossing the angle formed by the two bellies of the digastric the hypoglossal nerve is seen, accompanied by the ranine vein, and passing forwards beneath the hinder border of the mylo-hyoid ; and some fibres of the last muscle may be cut if necessary. By then dividing carefully the hyo-glossus muscle in the interval between the hypoglossal nerve and the tendon of the digastric the lingual artery is exposed and may be secured. The facial vein is frequently seen in the posterior angle of the wound, and may be injured if the primary incision is made too freely. 3. Facial artery (iv).—The facial artery (external maxillary), taking origin a little above the lingual, is at first directed upwards, beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and enters the hinder part of the sub- maxillary triangle; it then runs horizontally forwards under cover of the base of the lower jaw, resting on the mylo-hyoid muscle, and being lodged in a groove on the deep surface of the submaxillary gland. Emerging from beneath the gland it turns sharply upwards and crosses vol. r. jj b