371 FACIAL ARTERY. On the side of the face the artery ascends obliquely, passing near the angle of the mouth and by side of the nose, to the inner canthus of the eye, where it ends by inosculating with the nasal branch of the oph- thalmic artery. In this part of its course the artery is exceedingly tortuous, a circumstance connected with the great mobility of the parts on which it rests. It is crossed by the risorius and the zygomatic muscles ; it lies upon the buccinator, the levator anguli oris and the levator labii superioris (sometimes under the last muscle); and near its ending it is embedded in the fibres of the levator labii superioris alteque nasi. The facial vein is to the outer side of the artery and separated from it by a considerable interval in the face ; at the base of the jaw the vein is close to the artery ; and in the neck the vein is more superficial, being separated from the artery by the submaxillary gland. Branches of the facial nerve cross the vessel ; and the infraorbital nerve is beneath it, separated by the fibres of the elevator of the upper lip. A. Cervical branches.—The following branches are derived from the facial artery below the jaw :— (a) The inferior or ascending palatine artery, a considerable branch, ascends between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and then between the internal pterygoid and the wall of the pharynx, to near the base of the skull, giving small branches to the surrounding muscles, to the tonsil, and to the Eustachian tube. Meeting the levator palati, it turns downwards and passes with that muscle above the upper border of the superior constrictor into the soft palate, where it is distributed to the mucous membrane, the glands, and the muscles, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. The place of this artery in the palate is frequently taken by the ascending pharyngeal. (b) The tonsillar branch ascends on the outer side of the stylo-glossus muscle, and, penetrating the superior constrictor of the pharynx, terminates in small vessels upon the tonsil and the side of the tongue near its root. This branch is often represented by one or more twigs from the inferior palatine artery. (c) The glandular branches are several short vessels which enter the substance of the submaxillary gland, while the facial artery is in contact with it. Small twigs are also furnished from this part of the artery to the stylo-hyoid, internal pterygoid, and masseter muscles. (d) The submental branch is the largest arising from the facial in the neck. Leaving the artery near the point at which it turns upwards to the face, this branch runs forwards below the base of the jaw, on the surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and gives branches to the surrounding muscles and the integuments, as well as others which perforate the mylo- hyoid to anastomose with the sublingual artery. Much diminished in size it turns over the border of the jaw near the symphysis, and terminates in branches to the depressor labii inferioris and levator menti muscles, and the other structures of the chin and lower lip, forming anastomoses with the inferior labial and mental arteries, and with the corresponding branch of the opposite side. B. Facial branches.—From, the outer side of the artery in its facial portion small offsets proceed which are distributed to the muscles— masseter, buccinator, &c., and anastomose with the transverse facial, buccal, and infraorbital arteries. The larger branches are directed inwards, and are as follows :— (a) The inferior labial branch arises soon after the facial artery has b u 2