ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. 144 Fig. 120.—Transverse section similar to that Fig. 120. behind the odontoid process, and is broadened out m the middle line. From the middle of its posterior surface a short thin bundle of fibres passes down to be attached to the body of the axis, whilst another passes up to the basilar process. These form, with the transverse portion, the figure of a cross, and from this arrangement is derived the term cruci- form, which is sometimes applied to the transverse ligament and its appendages together. Two synovial cavities are placed one in front and another behind the odontoid process ; the first of these is situated between the process Fig. 119.—Horizontal section through the ODONTO-ATLANTAL ARTICULATION. (A. T.) J 1, cut surface of the odontoid process ; 2, cut surface of the anterior arch of the atlas ; 3, transverse ligament; between 1 and 2, the anterior synovial cavity, and between 1 and 3, the posterior synevial cavity of the articulation ; 4, is placed on the back part of the left superior arti- cular process of the atlas ; the anterior part has been partly removed by the section. For the sake of distinctness, the synovial spaces are repre- sented somewhat wider than natural. Fig. 119. and the anterior arch of the atlas, the other between the process and the transverse ligament. The lateral or alar odontoid or check ligaments are two thick and very strong bundles of fibres, which extend from the sides of the summit of the odontoid process outwards and a little upwards to be im- shown in Fig. 118, the cruciform ligaments HAVING BEEN REMOVED. (A. T.) J 4, alar odontoid ligament ; 5, accessory atlanto- axial ligament ; 6, 7, capsular ligaments of the occipito-atlantal and the atlanto-axial articulations; 9, odontoid process ; 9, 9', middle odontoid liga- ment. planted into the rough impression on the inner side of each condyle of the occi- pital bone. Some of the fibres of the two ligaments are usually continuous across the middle line. The middle odontoid or suspensory ligament consists of fibres which pass directly upwards from the summit of the odontoid process, to the margin of the foramen magnum. The posterior occipito-axial ligament is a strong wide band, covering the cruciform and odontoid ligaments. It is attached above in the' basilar groove, and below to the body of the axis, and many of the superficial fibres are prolonged into the posterior common ligament, of which it forms the continuation upwards. The anterior occipito-atlantal ligament extends from the anterior- border of the occipital foramen, between the condyles, to the anterior arch of the atlas. It is thin, broad, and membranous ; but in the median line it is strengthened by an accessorrj ligament, thick and