2 INTRODUCTION. Descriptive Anatomy may be treated of in two methods ; viz., the Systematic and the Topographical. In the first or Systematic Anatomy, the several organs and parts of the body are considered in a systematic order, according to their structure, their connection with each other, and their relation to the purposes of life ; while in the second, or Topographical Anatomy, the parts are described in the order of their position or association in any region of the body. The first method is best adapted for the elementary and complete study of the structure of organs, the second is more immediately useful in the study of particular regions in their relation to medicine and surgery. The object of the present work being mainly to serve as a guide for systematic study, the topographical details will for the most part be included under and combined with the general description of organs, and only some of the more important regions will receive separate notice. The description of any organ embraces the consideration of its form, size, position, connection and texture ; the whole of these constituting the anatomy of the organ. The adult or fully formed condition of the body is commonly assumed as the subject of this description ; but it is obvious that a consideration of the structure of the body and its organs in different stages of life is required to render the knowledge of their anatomy complete. To the description of the origin and formation of organs in the embryo, a special chapter will be devoted in this work, under the name of Embryological Anatomy or Foetal Development, while the more advanced changes of growth will be described along with the Systematic Anatomy. The study of anatomy may be viewed in two different aspects ; viz., the Physiological and the Morphological. In the former, anatomy supplies the materials relating to structure from which an explanation is sought of the uses or functions of organs by the physiologist; and for this purpose the study of Textural Anatomy is of particular service. In its Morphological aspect, Descriptive Anatomy investigates and combines the facts relating to the structure and relations of organs, from which may be deduced general principles as to the construction of the human body or that of animals. In the determination of these general principles, or laws of Morphology, it is necessary to combine the know- ledge of the anatomy of animals with that of man, and both of these with the history of development. PLAN OP ORGANIZATION. Vertebrate Type.—The general plan of construction of the human body agrees closely w'ith that which prevails in a certain number of animals, viz., mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibia, and fishes, and is known as the vertebrate type of organisation. The main feature of that type, and that from which its name is derived, belongs to the internal skeleton, and consists in the existence of a number of bones (or cartila- ginous substitutes) termed vertebrae, which extend in a longitudinal series through the whole trunk of the body, and which by their more solid part, termed centrum or body, form a pillar or axis, round which the rest of the parts are arranged with a certain similarity of structure. At one extremity of this pillar is situated the head, presenting in almost