170 ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIME. capsule and is known as the ilio-femoral ligament. This springs above from the lower part of the anterior inferior iliac spine, and behind this from an impression on the bone immediately above the margin of the acetabulum ; the fibres diverge and form two strong bands, the inner of which passes almost vertically to the lower part of the anterior intertro- chanteric line ; the outer to the upper part of the same line and the adjacent part of the neck of the femur. Between the two bands is a thinner part of the capsule ; but it not unfrequently happens that the division is not marked, so that the ligament forms one flat triangular band, attached by its base to the whole length of the anterior intertro- chanteric line.* At the lower and hinder part of the joint, a broad and strong band of fibres, iscliio-capsular ligament, passes from the furrow on the ischium below the acetabulum to end in the circular fibres. In front and below may be also found a number of scattered fibrous bundles, which converge to the capsule from the ilio-pectineal eminence, from the margin of the obturator foramen, and from the obturator membrane, constituting the pubofemoral ligament. Besides these the capsule re- ceives above other strengthening bands from the tendon of the posterior head of the rectus femoris, and from the gluteus minimus. From the inside of the capsule the innermost fibres are reflected upwards from their insertion upon the neck of the femur to the articular cartilage, forming a surface partly level and partly raised into longitudinal folds called retinacula. The synovial membrane of the joint is reflected from the neck of the femur to the inner surface of the capsule, thence to the inner surface of the cotyloid ligament and to the pad of fat in the bottom of the ace- tabulum, from which it is further prolonged as a tubular investment upon the interarticular ligament. It sometimes communicates, through an opening in the anterior wall of the capsule, with a synovial bursa placed beneath the tendon of the ilio-psoas muscle. Movements.—The movements allowed at the hip-joint are flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. Extension is limited by the anterior fibres of the capsular ligament, and the inner band of the ilio-femoral ligament : flexion is limited only by the contact of the thigh with the abdomen. Abduction is controlled by the pubo-femoral band, and by the lower part of the capsule; adduction by the outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament, and by the upper part of the capsule. Rotation outwards is checked mainly by the outer part of the ilio-femoral ligament, inwards by the ischio-capsular ligament, the hinder part of the capsule, and by the muscles at the back of the joint. The whole extent of this movement is less than the sixth of a circle. The inter- articular ligament is put upon the stretch when the hip is partly flexed, and the thigh then adducted, or rotated out, but it is in many cases so slender that it can have very little influence upon the mechanism of the joint. The ilio-femoral ligament is so strong that it is but rarely broken in dislocations of the hip, and advantage is taken of this circumstance in attempting to reduce the displacement by manipulation. The swinging antero-posterior movement of the femur, as in walking or running, is affected by rotation of the head of the bone in the hip- joint. In the erect attitude a vertical line passing through the centre of gravity of the trunk falls behind the centres of rotation in the hip-joints ; the pelvis therefore tends to fall backwards by over extension of the hip-joints, but as this is prevented by the tightening of the capsule in front, the trunk is supported Upon the thigh-bones in great measure without muscular effort by virtue of this mechanism of the joint. * The outer or upper of these bands is sometimes described separately as the ilio- trochanteric ligament; and the whole structure is frequently designated by surgeons the Y ligament of Bigelow.