319 THE DIAPHRAGM. to tlie lateral portions of the posterior margin of the tendinous centre. It frequently happens that fleshy fibres spring only from the inner portion of the external arched ligament, and in that case a triangular interval is left between the vertebral and costal portions of the muscle through which the areolar tissue of the thoracic cavity becomes con- tinuous with that of the abdomen. The costal portion of the muscle consists of a series of serrated slips arising from the cartilages of the six lower ribs, and interdigitating with the attachments of the transversalis abdominis muscle (fig. 211). They sometimes arise also in part from the osseous ribs. The sternal portion is a narrow slip, sometimes divided into two, separated on each side from the costal portion by an interval which gives passage to the epigastric branch of the internal mammary artery, together with some lymphatics, and in which the lining membranes of the thorax and abdomen are separated only by a small quantity of loose connective tissue. The sternal fibres of the diaphragm are much the shortest; the lateral costal fibres are the longest. The fibres of the sternal and costal slips, after being united, rise in an arched and converging manner to be inserted into the anterior and external margins of the central tendon. The central tendon—trefoil or cor diform tendon—is a strong aponeurosis, forming the central and highest part of the diaphragm. It is elongated fi’om side to side, convex in front and concave behind, and consists of three lobes or alee, partly separated by indentations. The right lobe is the. largest; and the left, which is elongated and narrow, is the smallest of the three. The central tendon is surrounded on every side by the muscular portion of the diaphragm, the fibres of which are directly continuous with those of the tendon. The tendinous fibres cross one another, and are interwoven in various directions. Foramina.—There are in the diaphragm three large perforations for the passage respectively of the aorta, the oesophagus, and the vena cava, besides some smaller holes or fissures which are less regular.—a. The foramen for the aorta (hiatus aorticus), placed in front of the vertebrae, is bounded by tendinous fibres of the crura as already described. Besides the aorta, this opening transmits the thoracic duct, and generally also the large azygos vein. b. The foramen for the oesophagus, higher and farther forwards than the preceding, as well as a little to its left, is sepa- rated from that opening by the decussating fibres of the crura. It is oval in form, and is generally entirely surrounded by muscular fibres ; in some rare cases, however, a small part in front is formed by the margin of the central tendon. Through it pass also the pneumo-gastric nerves. c. The opening for the vena cava (foramen qnadratum) is placed in the highest part of the diaphragm, in the tendinous centre at the junction of the right and middle lobes, posteriorly. Its form is somewhat quad- rangular ; and it is bounded by fasciculi of tendinous fibres running parallel with its sides. Besides the foregoing large foramina there are small perforations through the crura for the splanchnic nerves on both sides, and for the small azygos vein on the left side, while the large azygos vein often takes its course through the right crus. The cord of the sympathetic nerve either perforates the outer part of the crus or passes under the internal arched ligament. Form and Relations.—The upper or thoracic surface of the diaphragm is highly arched. Its xrosterior and lateral fibres, ascending from their connection with the