SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 47 above with the cribriform plate, and exhibiting a number of canals and grooves for branches of the olfactory nerve. It is divided at its back part by a channel, directed forwards and upwards from its posterior margin to about its middle. This is the superior meatus of the nose, and communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells. The short, sharp margin which overhangs this channel, is the superior turbinate process or spongy bone. Below this is a slightly folded margin of greater extent, free in front and behind, the inferior turbinate process or middle spongy bone, which overhangs the middle meatus of the nose. From the front of the middle meatus a passage, the infundibulum, is prolonged upwards through the anterior ethmoidal cells, into the frontal sinus. The superior margin of the lateral mass is covered, and the cells com- pleted, by the projecting inner border of the orbital plate of the frontal bone ; two grooves are seen crossing it, which complete Avith the frontal bone the internal orbital canals. The inferior margin is formed by the rounded edge of the middle turbinate bone, and is free in the nasal fossa. The anterior extremity presents one or two open cells, which are closed by the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and the posterior extremity fits against the front of the body of the sphenoid, where it is commonly anchylosed with the sphenoidal spongy bone. The cribriform plate corresponds in size to the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone which it occupies. On each side of the crista galli it is de- pressed into the olfactory groove Avhich lodges the olfactory bulb, and is pierced by numerous foramina, for transmission of the filaments of the olfactory nerves. The foramina in the middle of the groove, are simple per- forations ; the internal and external sets are the orifices of small canals which subdivide as they descend on the vertical plate and lateral mass. At the anterior extremity is a small fissure at each side of the crista galli, close to its base, and externally to this a groove or foramen, con- nected usually by a slight furrow with the anterior internal orbital canal, which transmits the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The upper jaw, superior maxilla, is the principal bone of the face ; it supports all the teeth of the upper range, and takes part in the formation of the hard palate, the floor of the orbit, and the floor and lateral wall of the nasal cavity. It consists of a central part or body, and four processes. The body presents an external surface, which is again sub- divided into anterior or facial, and posterior or zygomatic portions ; an internal or nasal surface, and a superior or orbital surface. The pro- cesses are, the nasal or ascending, projecting upwards from the fore part of the body, the alveolar forming the loAA'er border of the bone and containing the alveoli or sockets for the teeth, the malar on the outer aspect separating the facial and zygomatic surfaces, and the palate 2mocess projecting horizontally on the inner side. The body is farther excavated by a large sinus or antrum, which opens on the inner side into the nasal fossa. The superior maxillary bone articulates with its fellow, with the nasal, frontal, lachrymal, ethmoid, palate, malar, vomer, and inferior turbinate bones, and sometimes with the sphenoid. Thq facial surface is marked at the loAver part, where it is continuous with the outer surface of the alveolar process, by a series of eminences corresponding in position to the fangs of the teeth ; that of the canine si particularly prominent, and internal to this is a slight depression, the