42 BOXES OF THE HEAD. the internal maxillary artery ; while farther inwards another small canal may be seen by which the chorda tympani nerve issues. The description of the Small Bones of the Ear with the Tympanum and Internal Ear will be found in the chapter on the Organs of the Senses. THE SPHENOID BONE. The sphenoid hone is placed across the base of the skull, near its middle. It enters into the formation of the cavity of the cranium, the orbits, and the nasal fossae. It is of very irregular shape, and consists of a central part or body, a pair of lateral expansions called the great wings, Fig. 36. Fig 36.—The sphenoid bone from above and behind. (A. T.) 1, the basilar surface, sawn from the occipital bone ; 2, Dorsum sellfe terminating superiorly in the two posterior clinoiil processes ; 3, is placed on the olivary eminence, and between it and 2 is the sella turcica, or pituitary fossa; in front of 3 is the transverse groove of the optic commissure ; 4, the side of the body with the sigmoid groove of the internal carotid artery ; 5, lesser wing ; x , anterior clinoid process ; 6, ethmoidal spine ; 7, cerebral surface of the great wing ; 8, upper angle of the great wing, which articulates with the parietal bone ; 9, the spinous process; 10, external, and 11, internal pterygoid plate ; 11, is placed opposite the hamular process and groove for the tendon of the tensor palati muscle; 12, optic foramen; 13, sphenoidal fissure; 14, foramen rotundum ; 15, foramen ovale ; 16, foramen spinosum ; 17, lingula, below which is placed the posterior opening of the Vidian canal. a pair of smaller horizontal processes above, called the small wings, and a pair which project downwards, thz pterygoid processes. The sphenoid is articulated with all the seven other bones of the cranium and with five of those of the face, viz., posteriorly with the occipital and with the petrous portions of the temporals, anteriorly with the ethmoid, palate, frontal, and malars, laterally with the squamous portion of the temporals, the parietals and frontal, and interiorly with the vomer and palate bones ; sometimes also with the superior maxilla. The body is hollowed out into two large cavities, the sphenoidal sinuses, separated by a thin mesial lamina, the sphenoidal septum, and opening anteriorly into the nasal fossm by two rounded apertures. The superior surface presents in the middle a deep pit, the pituitary fossa, or sella turcica, which lodges the pituitary body. In front of the fossa is an elevated portion of bone on a level with the optic foramina, the olivary