BONES OP TIIE HEAD, 82 The circiimference (horizontal) is taken in a plane passing anteriorly through the ophryon, and posteriorly through the occipital point (fig. 06, 0p O). This may exceed to a slight degree 550 millimeters (21.7 inches) or it may be as low as 450 mm. (17.7 inches). For comparison of the relative development of the anterior and posterior portions of the cranium, the preauricular part of the circumference is divided from the postauricular part by a line on each side jiassing from the auricular point to the bregma (auriculo-bregmatic line). The length of the cranium is measured from the ophryon to the occipital point (Sg. 06, Op O), and this is made the standard = 100. The breadth is, in the examples given below, always the greatest interparietal breadth, but many anthropologists, with probably more reason, take the greatest breadth of the cranium above the level of the zygoma, whether it be over the parietals or squamous; the proportion of this to the length is calculated, 100 x breadth, and length, the result is the index of breadth or the cephalic index. Skulls with a breadth- index above 80 are brachycephalic, from lb to 80 mesaticephalic, and below 75 dolichocephalic. This character exhibits a very wide range of variation, it there- fore early attracted attention, and upon it Retzius founded a primary classifica- tion of skulls ; its value, however, in this respect is not so great as was supposed, since the extremes of dolichocephaly and of brachycephaly are met with in races that are shown otherwise to be nearly allied. The height is measured from the basion to the bregma, and the proportion of this to the length, calculated in the same way, is the index of height. It is subject to less variation than the breadth- index ; in some cases, especially in dolichocephalic skulls, it exceeds, but more frequently it falls below that index. Mongolians of Siberia and Central Asia Andaman Islanders .... Chinese ...... English ...... Native Australian .... Fiji Islanders ..... Breadth- Height- index. index. 88 73 82 77 79 75 76 71 71 71 00 74 For a more accurate determination of the form of the cranium other measure- ments are taken, such as the transverse circumference, passing through the auricular point on each side and the bregma above ; the longitudinal arc from the nasion to the opisthion, with its subdivisions into frontal, parietal and occipital arcs ; transverse arcs from the posterior root of the zygoma immediately above the auricular point of the one side to the other, across the most prominent parts of the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones respectively. The antero- posterior curve of the roof may also be indicated by a series of radii from the basion to the centre of the frontal bone, the bregma, the vertex and the lambda. Other features again are not capable of being expressed in terms of direct measurement, and must be described in each case ; for example, the form of the transverse arch of the cranium, which in the best shaped skulls is full and rounded, whilst in some races, notably in the Australian, the line of the sagittal suture is elevated, and the surface on each side flattened or even some- what depressed, making the calvaria roof-shaped ; and this condition, combined with great prominence of the parietal eminences or of the temporal lines, gives the skull, when viewed from behind, a markedly pentagonal figure. The degree of complication and fusion of the sutures, the amount of projection of the glabella and of the inion, and other variable points, may be stated according to tables furnished by Broca in the work above referred to. The situation and direction of the foramen magnum differ greatly, as was pointed out by Daubenton, in man and the lower animals, in connection with the altered position of the axis of the head in relation to that of the vertebral column. In man the foramen is placed in or near the centre of the base of the skull, and its plane looks mainly downwards, in quadrupeds it is placed on the posterior surface of the skull and looks backwards, while in the anthropoid r.pos it is intermediate in position and direction. But even in human skulls