293 SUPRAHYOID MUSCLES. process, the sterno-mastoid and splenius muscles, and the parotid gland; it crosses the internal and external carotid arteries, with the internal jugular vein and accompanying nerves. The anterior belly is placed immediately beneath the deep cervical fascia, and rests on the mylo-liyoid muscle ; its inner border is con- nected by a dense aponeurosis with its fellow of the opposite side. Varieties.—The digastric muscle is subject to many variations. The posterior belly has been seen receiving' an accessory slip from the styloid process (Wood), or arising entirely from that part, or connected by a slip with the middle or inferior constrictor of the pharynx (Perrin, Curnow). The anterior belly has been joined by a slip arising from the lower jaw in front of the angle (Henle). In rare cases the muscle is monogastric, the anterior attachment in that case taking place about the middle of the body of the lower jaw (McWhinnie). The anterior belly is frequently divided into two or more parts, one or even two of which may cross the middle line and decussate with similar slips from the muscle of the opposite side ; or a slip sometimes passes to the median raphe of the mylo-hyoid, or be- comes incorporated with its fellow of the opposite side. Its deep surface is some- times united by muscular fibres with the subjacent mylo-hyoid. The tendon of the digastric has been seen in front of, or more rarely behind the stylo-hyoid, instead of passing through it. The mento-hyoid (Macalister) is an occasional mesial slip found passing from the body of the hyoid bone to the chin. It sometimes consists of two parallel bands, and Macalister suggests that it may be a differentiated portion of the platysma. The stylo-hyoid is a slender muscle placed along the upper border of the posterior belly of the digastric. It arises by a narrow tendon from the back of the styloid process of the temporal bone near the root, and inclines downwards and forwards, to be inserted into the hyoid bone at the union of the great cornu with the body. Its fibres are usually divided into two fasciculi near its insertion, for the transmission of the tendon of the digastric muscle. Relations.—The upper part of the stylo-hyoid is covered by the parotid gland ; the lower part is superficial. The muscle crosses the external carotid artery. The lower part of the stylo-hyoid, the anterior belly of the digastric, and the base of the lower jaw bound a triangular space which contains the submaxillary gland, and is known as the submaxillary triangle. Varieties.—The stylo-hyoid is not unfrequently wanting, while, on the other hand, doubling of the muscle has also been recorded. It is occasionally placed on the inner side of the external carotid artery. The insertion may take place partly or wholly into the tendon of the digastric ; or fibres are continued into the omo-hyoid, thyro-hyoid, or mylo-hyoid muscles. An additional muscular slip is occasionally seen (stylo-Uyoideus alter—Alb.), passing from the styloid process to the small cornu of the hyoid bone, and accompanying or replacing the stylo- hyoid ligament. The mylo-liyoid muscle arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of the lower jaw, extending from the last molar tooth to the symphysis. The nearly parallel fibres pass inwards, backwards and downwards; the hinder ones are inserted, shortly tendinous, into the body of the hyoid bone, while the larger number, becoming gradually shorter as they are placed farther forwards, meet at an angle with those of the opposite muscle and end in a median tendinous raphe, extending from the symphysis of the jaw to the hyoid bone. Thus the two muscles together form a floor below the anterior part of the mouth (diajihragma oris, Meyer). Relations.—The lower surface of the mylo-hyoid is in contact with the anterior belly of the digastric, the submaxillary gland, the facial artery and its submental branch, and the mylo-hyoid vessels and nerve. The muscle covers the genio-