MUSCLES OF THE PHAEYXX. 297 Fig. 203. pharynx ; 4, middle constrictor ; MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. The pharynx, the dilated upper part of the alimentary tube extending from the base of the skull to the oesophagus, presents at the sides and back a continuous wall, in great part formed and supported by distinct muscles resting posteriorly against the vertebral column, while in front it is open towards the nasal cavity, the mouth, and the larynx. The muscles entering into the construction of the wall of the pharynx are disposed in two layers, viz., an outer layer in which the fibres have a generally transverse direction, and an inner one composed of longitudinal fibres. The outer layer includes three muscles named constrictors, all of which spring in front from bones or cartilages, and terminate behind, where they are much expanded and overlap one another from below up- wards, by joining their fellows in the middle line, forming in the upper part a mesial tendinous raph6. The inner layer comprises the elevator muscles of the pharynx, two in number, viz., the stylo-pharyngeus and the palato-pharyngeus, the latter of which will be described together with the muscles of the soft palate. The inferior constrictor muscle, the broadest and thickest of the three, arises by a series of slips from the side of the cricoid cartilage at Fig. 203.—Deep muscles of the cheek, pharynx, &c. (modified from Cloquet). (A. T.) l The pharynx has been distended by stuffing, a, external pterygoid plate ; i, styloid process with short portions of the three styloid mus- cles attached ; c, body of the lower jaw, which has been divided at the phlce where the pterygo-maxil- lary ligament + is attached; d, body of the hyoid bone ; e, thyroid cartilage ; /, cricoid cartilage ; </, trachea ; 1, outer part of the or- bicularis oris muscle ; 2, buccina- tor ; 3, superior constrictor of the 5, inferior constrictor; 6, (eso- phagus ; 7, points by three lines to the lower parts of the stylo-glossus, stylo-hyoid, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles respectively; 8, mylo- hyoid ; 9, hyo-glossus, of which a small part is removed posteriorly to show the attachment of the middle constrictor; 10, thyro-hyoid. its lower and posterior part, and from the inferior cornu, the oblique line and upper border of the thyroid carti- lage ; some fibres are also usually continued into it from the sterno-thyroid and crico-thyroid muscles. It curves backwards and inwards, and unites with its fellow in the middle line at the back of the pharynx. The direction of the inferior fibres is horizontal; the rest ascend with increasing degrees of obliquity, and the highest fibres