ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. 1S5 the bones are held in contact bj two lateral ligaments and an inferior ligament or fibrous plate; and each of the cavities is lined by a synovial membrane. Movements.—In the mechanism of the foot three arches are distinguishable, two of them longitudinal and one transverse; all of them capable of being flattened somewhat by pressure from above, thus securing elasticity. The inner arch is formed by the os calcis, astragalus, navicular, and three cuneiform bones together with the three inner toes, the astragalus being the key-stone, and is supported especially by the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament. The outer arch is formed by the os calcis, cuboid bone, and two outer toes, and is supported by the strong inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. Thus the calcaneo-navicular and calcaneo-cuboid ligaments are stretched by the whole weight of the body bearing down upon the arch, and prevent the too great flattening of the instep; an action in which they are assisted, however, by the plantar aponeurosis. The transverse arching of the foot is most marked in the line of the tarso-metatarsal articulations, and is maintained by the wedge-shape of the bones and by the plantar ligaments. The weight of the body, falling upon the balls of the toes when the heel is raised, tends to spread out the metatarsal bones at their distal extremities, and to flatten the transverse arch, which recovers its position when the pressure is removed. Between the astragalus and the calcaneum only one kind of motion is possible, the centre of which is in the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament, and is of such a nature, that when the posterior articular surface of the os calcis glides forwards and downwards beneath the astragalus, the sustentaculum tali moves backwards and upwards, and the cuboid extremity of the bone is carried slightly inwards. The navicular and cuboid bones can be moved downwards and inwards, or up- wards and outwards, over the fore part of the astragalus and calcaneum re- spectively. It is in these articulations mainly that the movements known as inversion and eversion have their seat. In inversion the fore part of the foot is depressed and carried inwards, the longitudinal arches are increased, and the outer margin of the foot descends more than the inner, so that the sole is turned to some extent inwards. In eversion these actions are reversed, and the foot resumes its normal position. The movement is assisted by a small amount of gliding between the anterior tarsal bones, and between these and the metatarsal bones. Inversion of the foot is always associated with extension, and eversion with flexion of the ankle-joint. The first, and, to a less degree, the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones are capable of a limited amount of movement by which they are carried downwards and towards the middle line of the foot, so that the transverse arch is increased and the fore part of the foot rendered somewhat narrower. The movements of the metatarso-phalangeal and interphalangeal articulations are similar to those of the corresponding joints of the fingers, but are more restricted in their extent.