SPINAL NERVES. 592 immediately beyond the points at which the roots perforate the dura mater lining the spinal canal. The first and second cervical nerves, how- ever, which leave the spinal canal over the laminae of the vertebrae, have their ganglia opposite those parts. The ganglia of the sacral nerves are contained in the spinal canal, that of the last nerve being occasionally at some distance from the point at which the nerve issues. The gan- glion of the coccygeal nerve is placed within the canal in the sac of dura mater, and at a variable distance from the origin of the nerve. The fibres of the posterior root of the nerve are collected into two bundles as they approach the ganglion, and the inner extremity of the oval-shaped ganglion is usually bilobate, the lobes corresponding to the two bundles of fibres. The anterior roots of the spinal nerves are smaller than the posterior, and are devoid of ganglia. Their fibres are also collected into two bundles near the intervertebral ganglion. Size.—The roots of the upper cervical nerves are smaller than those of the lower nerves, the first being much the smallest. The posterior roots of these nerves, with the exception of the first in which the an- terior root is larger than the posterior, exceed the anterior in size more than in the other spinal nerves, and they are likewise composed of fasciculi which are considerably larger than those of anterior roots. The roots of the dorsal nerves, exception being made of the first, which resembles the lowest cervical nerves and is associated with them in a part of its distribution, are of small size, and vary but slightly, or not at all, from the second to the last. The fasciculi of both roots are thinly strewed over the spinal cord, and are slender, those of the posterior exceeding in thickness those of the anterior root in only a small degree. The roots of the lower lumbar, and of the upper sacral nerves, are the largest of all the spinal nerves ; those of the lowest sacral and of the coccygeal nerve are, on the other hand, the smallest. All these nerves are crowded together upon the lower end of the cord. Of these nerves the anterior roots are the smaller, but the disproportion between the anterior and posterior roots is not so great as in the cervical nerves. Length.—The place at which the roots of the upper cervical nerves are connected with the spinal cord being nearly opposite the foramina by which they respectively leave the canal, these roots are comparatively short. But the distance between the two points referred to is gradually augmented from nerve to nerve downwards, so that the place of origin of the lower cervical nerves is the depth of at least one veretebra, and that of the lower dorsal nerves about the depth of two vertebra, above the foramina by which they respectively emerge from the canal. More- over, as the spinal cord extends no farther than the first lumbar verte- bra, the length of the roots of the lumbar, sacral and coccygeal nerves increases rapidly from nerve to nerve, and in each case may be estimated by the distance of the foramen of exit from the extremity of the cord. Owing to their length, and the appearance they present in connection with the spinal cord, the aggregation of the roots of the nerves last referred to has been named the cauda equina. The direction the roots take within the canal requires brief notice. The first cervical nerve is directed horizontally outwards. The roots ©f the lower cervical and dorsal nerves at first descend over the spinal cord, held in contact with it by the arachnoid, till they arrive opposite