451 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. rests against the sacrum and lumbo-sacral nervous cord. It is covered by the layer of peritoneum constituting the posterior false ligament of the bladder, and beneath this the ureter crosses it on the inner side. The companion vein lies behind, and somewhat to its inner side, and the com- mencement of the artery crosses the upper end of the external iliac vein. Branches.—-The branches of the internal iliac artery, though con- stant and regular in their general distribution, vary much in their mode of origin. They arise, in most instances, from two principal divisions of the parent trunk, of which one is anterior to the other. From the anterior division arise the superior vesical (connected with the pervious portion of the fcetal hypogastric artery), the inferior vesical (vaginal in the female), middle hamiorrhoidal, obturator, internal pudic, and sciatic arteries, and also, in the female, the uterine artery. The poster io) division gives off the ilio-lumbar and lateral sacral arteries, and is continued into the gluteal. Varieties.—Length.—The internal iliac artery has been found as short as half an inch, and sometimes as long as three inches, but it is not often less than an inch in length. Two instances are recorded in which this vessel was absent on the left side, and its branches were derived from a loop of the external iliac artery dipping down into the pelvis (Ellis, Eckhard). The lengths of the common and internal iliac arteries generally bear an inverse proportion to each other— the internal iliac being long when the common iliac is short, and vice versa. More.over, when the common iliac is short, the internal iliac (arising higher than usual) is placed for some distance above the brim of the pelvis, and descends by the side of the external iliac to reach that cavity. The 'place of division of the internal iliac into its branches varies between the upper margin of the sacrum and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. Branches.—Sometimes all the branches of the internal iliac artery arise without the previous separation of that vessel into two portions. In more than a fourth of R. Quain’s cases a branch, most frequently the ilio- lumbar artery, arose from the internal iliac trunk before its subdivision. Hypogastric artery.—In the foetus, the hypogastric artery, retaining almost the full size of the common iliac, curves forwards from that artery to the side of the urinary bladder, and ascends on the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus. At that point the artery takes the name of umbilical, and the vessels of the two sides, coming into' contact with one another, and with the umbilical vein along with which they are spirally coiled, proceed in the umbilical cord to the placenta. After the cessation of the placental circulation at birth, the hypogastric arteries become impervious from the side of the bladder upwards to the umbilicus, and are converted into fibrous cords. These two cords, being shorter than the part of the peritoneum on which they rest, cause a fold of the serous membrane to project inwards ; and thus are formed two fossee at the fore part of the abdomen on each side of the middle line, in one or other of which the projection of an internal inguinal hernia takes place. The proximal part of the artery persists as the internal iliac, and the portion intervening between this and the side of the bladder remains pervious, although proportionally much reduced iu size, and forms the trunk of the superior vesical artery. BRANCHES OP THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 1. The superior vesical artery (v) is, at its commencement, that part of the hypogastric artery of the feetus which remains pervious after the changes that take place subsequently to birth. It divides into numerous branches which supply the apex and body of the bladder, and anastomose with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side, as well as with the offsets of the inferior vesical artery. Anteriorly, small twigs ascend on the urachus to the abdominal wrall, and posteriorly, others supply the lower end of the ureter. One or more of the hindmost g g 2