BRANCHES OF THE DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. 431 A. Branches to the viscera :— The pericardial branches are some very small and irregular vessels which pass forwards and ramify on the pericardium. The bronchial arteries are the nutrient arteries of the substance of the lung, and they supply also the bronchial glands, and in part the pericardium and oesophagus. These vessels vary frequently in number, and in their mode of origin. On the right side there is usually one bronchial ar- tery which arises from the first aortic intercostal artery, or by a common trunk with the upper left bronchial artery from the descending thoracic aorta ; on the left side there are generally two arteries, both of which arise from the descending thoracic aorta, one near the commencement of that trunk, and the other, named inferior bronchial, lower down. Each artery is directed to the back part of the corresponding bronchus, along which it runs, dividing and subdividing with the successive bronchial ramifications in the substance of the lung. Varieties.—Tlie place of origin of tlie bronchial arteries is liable to much variation. The artery of the right side has been found to arise singly from the aorta, from the internal mammary, or from the inferior thyroid. The bronchial arteries of the two sides have been seen to arise by a common trunk from the subclavian (Haller). Two common trunks, each furnishing a branch to the right and left lungs, have been observed in a single case to descend into the thorax, after arising, one from the internal mammary, and the other from the superior intercostal artery (R. Quain, pi. 26, fig. 5). In some cases they arise from the under surface of the arch, instead of from the descending thoracic aorta. Instances also occur of two distinct bronchial arteries for each lung. The oesophageal arteries are variable in size and number. There are usually four or five, which arise from the fore part or right side of the aorta, and run downwards upon the oesophagus, supplying its coats. Their lower branches anastomose with the ascending offsets of the coronary artery of the stomach and with the phrenic arteries, wdiile their upper branches communicate with those of the inferior thyroid artery. Posterior mediastinal branches, small and irregular, supply the glands, areolar tissue, and other structures in the posterior mediastinum, as well as the vertebral portion of the diaphragm. B. Branches to the wall of the thorax :— The intercostal arteries (iv) arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards upon the bodies of the vertebra;, to reach the intercostal spaces. They are usually nine in number—the upper two spaces being supplied by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery. Owing to the position of the aorta on the left side of the spine, the right aortic intercostals cross over the front of the vertebra, furnish- ing small branches to their interior, and are longer than the arteries of the left side. The vessels of both sides pass outwards behind the pleura, and are crossed by the sympathetic nerve : those of the right side also pass behind the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein. In each intercostal space the artery, passing outwards more horizon- tally than the ribs, crosses the space obliquely, so as to gain the lower border of the upper rib near its angle. It lies upon the deep surface of the external intercostal muscle, and in the back of the space is separated from the pleura only by a thin fascia, but farther outwards it lies between the twro layers of intercostal muscles. Extending forwards in the sub-