700 ANATOMY OF THE GEOIN. In the female, oblique inguinal hernia follows the course of the round ligament of the uterus along the inguinal canal, in the same manner as in the male it follows the spermatic cord. After escaping from the external abdominal ring, the hernia lodges in the labium pudendi. The coverings are the same as those in the male body, with the exception of the cremaster, which does not exist in the female : but it occasionally happens that some fibres of the internal oblique muscle are drawn down over this hernia in loops, so as to have the appearance of a cremaster (Cloquet). A strictly congenital inguinal hernia may occur in the female, the protruded parts being received into the little diverticulum of the peritoneum (canal of Nuck), which sometimes extends into the inguinal canal with the round ligament. But as this process of the peritoneum, in such circumstances, would probably not differ in any respect from the ordinary sac. there are no means of distinguishing a congenital hernia in the female body. Direct inguinal hernia (internal: ventro-inguinal). — Instead of following the whole course of the inguinal canal, in the manner of the hernia above described, the viscus in this case is protruded from the abdomen to the groin directly through the lower end of the canal, at the external abdominal ring. At the part of the abdominal wall through which the direct inguinal hernia finds its way, there is recognised on its posterior aspect a triangular interval, the sides of which are formed by the epigastric artery, and the margin of the rectus muscle, and the base by Poupart’s ligament. It is commonly named the triangle of Hessel- hach. Through this space the hernia is protruded, carrying before it a sac from the fossa of the peritoneum internal to the obliterated hypo- gastric artery ; and it is in general forced onwards directly into the external abdominal ring. Fig. 375.—Internal view of tile VESSELS IN THE NEIGH HOl'RHOOlt of the groin (R. Quain). A portion of the wall of the abdo- men and pelvis of the left side, seen from behind. 1, symphysis pubis; 2, irregular surface of the hip-bone separated from the sacrum ; 3, ischial spine ; 4, ischial tuberosity; 5, obturator internus ; 8, rectus, covered with a prolongation from 7, transver- salis fascia ; 8, iliac fascia covering the iliacus muscle ; 9, psoas magnus cut; 10, external iliac artery; 11, its vein; 12, epigastric vessels; 13, spermatic vessels entering the abdo- minal wall at the internal ring, the vas deferens joiningthem from below; 14, two pubic veins; 15, obliterated hypogastric artery.