S7 FRONTAL BONE. the temporal line of the parietal bone : it separates the temporal from the frontal part of the outer surface of the bone. Inferior surface.—The orbital surfaces are somewhat triangular, their internal margins being parallel, while the external are directed backwards and inwards. Close to the external angular process is the lachrymal fossa, which lodges the lachrymal gland ; and close to the internal angular process is a small depression, trochlear fossa, where the pulley of the superior oblique muscle is attached. Between the orbits in front is the nasal notch, a semilunar serrated surface which articulates with the superior maxillary and nasal bones; in the concavity of the notch a sharp process of variable length, the nasal spine, descends in the middle line between the latter bones and the central plate of the ethmoid, and on each side of this is a small grooved surface which enters into the formation of the roof of the nasal fossa. Between the ethmoidal notch and the inner margin of the orbit is an irregular surface occupied by depressions forming the roots of cells in the ethmoid bone. Travers- ing this surface are two grooves, which complete, with the ethmoid, the anterior and posterior internal orbital canals ; the anterior transmits the nasal nerve and the anterior ethmoidal vessels ; the other, the pos- terior ethmoidal vessels. Further forward, on each side of the nasal spine, is the opening of the frontal sinus, a cavity which extends within the bone for a variable distance behind the superciliary ridges. Outside and behind the orbital surface, there is a large rough triangular area which articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid. Cerebral surface.—This surface forms a large concavity, except over the roofs of the orbits, which are convex. Upon it are seen the impres- Fig. 32.—The frontal bone Fig. 32. FROM BEHIND AND BELOW, SHOWING THE INTERNAL CERE- BRAL SURFACE AND THE ROOF OF THE ORBITS. (A. T.) ^ 2, 4, and 5, as in the preceding figure; 9, internal or cerebral surface ; 10, groove of the su- perior longitudinal sinus, ending below in 11, the frontal crest, which leads down to 13, the foramen csecum; 12, orbital plate, the number is placed in the depression for the lachrymal gland ; 14, opening of the frontal sinus ; 15, placed on the roof of the orbit internally, is near the opening of the anterior in- ternal orbital canal; 16, surface of articulation with great wing of sphenoid. sions of the cerebral con- volutions, which, with the intervening ridges, are strongly marked over the orbits. A groove, the frontal sulcus, lodging the longitudinal sinus, descends from the middle of the upper margin of the bone, and is succeeded by the frontal crest, a ridge which runs down to the lower margin. A small foramen, usually formed in part by the central plate of the ethmoid,