VARIETIES OF TIIE ARTERIES OF THE HAND. 429 la the greater number of cases the superficial palmar arch is diminished, and gives off fewer digital branches than usual. Generally only one branch is wanting, viz., that which supplies the adjacent sides of the fore and middle fingers ; but sometimes two or three branches are absent, or even all four, as when the ulnar artery, after giving branches to the short muscles of the little finger, ends in the deep palmar arch. In the last-mentioned case, which is rare, it Fig. 260.—An enlarged median artery replac- ing THE RADIAL AND ULNAR IN THE SUPPLY OP PALMAR ARTERIES TO HALF THE DIGITS (from Tiedemann). J 1, lower part of the brachial artery; 2, radial artery, not giving any superficial volar branch ; 3, recurrent radial; 4, ulnar artery, passing over the wrist and supplying at 4', 4', 4', digital arteries to half the hand ; 5, the enlarged median artery pass- ing in front of the annular ligament of the wrist, and supplying 5', 5', digital branches to the outer half of the hand. is obvious that the superficial arch is alto- gether wanting. These various deficiencies in the superficial palmar arch and its branches are usually com- pensated for by an enlargement of the deep arch, the palmar interosseous branches of which, being increased in size, divide at the clefts of the fingers, and form such collateral digital branches as are not derived from the usual source. But a defective superficial arch may, as before mentioned, be reinforced from other vessels, viz., from the superficial volar, from an enlarged median artery, or from a large dorsal interosseous branch. It sometimes, but less frequently happens, that the deep system of vessels is deficient; in which case the superficial arch may supply all the digital arteries to the thumb and fingers, or one or more of these may be derived from the superficial volar, the median, or a dorsal inter- osseous artery. The superficial palmar arch has occa- sionally been seen double, the superficial part of the ulnar artery and the superficial volar branch of the radial being each divided into two communicating branches. Two of the digital arteries frequently arise by a common trunk. Fig 230. SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE ULNAR AND RADIAL ARTERIES. In the upper third of the forearm, the depth at which the ulnar artery is placed beneath the muscles and the origin of the large interosseous branch prevent the application of a ligature to this part of the vessel. In the middle third, the artery may be tied as it approaches the ulnar nerve. An incision is made along a line drawn from the internal condyle of the humerus to the pisiform bone, and the intermuscular space between the flexor sublimis digitorum and flexor carpi ulnaris opened up, when the ulnar nerve comes into view. The artery, accompanied by its veme comites, will be found to the outer