135 ERECT ATTITUDE OF THE SKELETON. III.—Tabus or the Homologous (according Scapula. Supraspinous fossa . . . Infraspinous fossa Subscapular fossa Base Spine and acromion Superior angle .... Inferior angle Superior or coracoid border . External or glenoid border Parts op the Scapula and Iliuii to Flower). Ilium. . Sacral surface. . Iliac fossa. . Gluteal or dorsal surface. . Iliac crest. . Ilio-pectineal line and eminence. . Posterior superior spine. . Anterior superior spine. . Posterior or ischial border. . Anterior or cotyloid border. ADAPTATION OF THE SKELETON TO THE ERECT ATTITUDE. The axial skeleton of man is, for the puiposes of station and progression, raised more fully to the vertical position than is the case in any animal; and along with this the lower limbs are extended in lines parallel to the axis of the trunk. The feet rest on the ground by the contact of the heel and the balls of the toes, the centre of gravity of the body falling within the basis of support. For the maintenance of this attitude, the constant action of the muscles passing- over the ankle-joint is more immediately necessary. But at the knee and hip- joint, it is mainly by the mechanism of the ligaments and other parts of the joints, and less directly by muscular action, that the erect attitude is maintained, as will be more fully shown in the description of the different articulations. There are, besides, many peculiarities in the construction of the body, and especially of the skeleton, which are associated with the assumption of the erect posture, and although many of them have been noticed in the description of the several sets of bones, it may still be useful to recapitulate them briefly in this place. It may first be remarked that the full development of these peculiarities belongs to the adult condition. In the infant, while still unable to walk, the large proportional size of the head, amounting to nearly a fifth of the whole body, the comparative straightness of the vertebral column, or absence of the curves which characterise the spine of the adult, the shortness of the lower limbs, and incompleteness of their structure, aH contribute to render the assumption of the erect attitude by the child, for a time, difficult and insecure. Thus the middle distance between the vertex of the head and the foot in a child is situated some- what above the umbilicus, while in the adult it is generally at the upper border of the pubis, or even lower, in some part of the symphysis. In the child also, from the large dimensions of the head and upper part of the body, the centre of gravity is carried to a considerably higher point than in the adult. The skull of man differs from that of animals in being nearly balanced on the vertebral column, the condyles of the occipital bone being brought forward to near the middle of the base by the comparative shortness of that part of the skull which lies in front of the foramen magnum, and the projection backwards of that which lies behind it. In animals the skull extends forwards from the extremity of the column, and is sustained by the elastic ligamentum nuchae, represented in man by a comparatively feeble structure which passes between the external occipital protuberance, and the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae. Together with this altered relation of the head to the spine, the plane of the foramen magnum, which in quadrupeds is vertical, becomes in man hori- zontal, or even inclined somewhat upwards anteriorly. The spinal column, by its pyramidal form, is fitted to sustain the weight which bears down upon its lower part, and by means of its different curvatures possesses elasticity and strength combined, and allows considerable range of motion to the trunk, without removal of the centre of gravity from within its base. The strong and expanded sacrum is the immediate means of transferring the weight of the trunk to the hip-bones and lower limbs. The pelvis is of peculiar breadth in man, presenting an upper and lower arch