RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS. lou The glenoid ligament is a fibrous band, about two lines thick, which iis fixed to the edge of the glenoid fossa, and thus deepens the cavity. The upper part of it is connected with the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle, which is also attached at the upper end of the glenoid fossa, within the capsule of the joint. The synovial membrane is reflected uninterruptedly from the margin of the glenoid cavity on the inner surface of the fibrous capsule to the humerus, but its form is complicated by its relation to the tendons of the biceps and subscapularis muscles. The long tendon of the biceps muscle, traversing the joint in its course from the upper border of the glenoid cavity to the bicipital groove, is enclosed in a tubular sheath, formed by a process of the synovial membrane, which is continued down upon it beyond the fibrous capsule into the bicipital groove, and is thence reflected upwards lining the groove, to become continuous with the synovial membrane of the capsule in such a manner as to preserve the integrity of the membrane. The bursal prolongation of the synovial membrane under the tendon of the subscapularis muscle is of variable extent, sometimes scarcely existing, sometimes forming a considerable pouch on the venter of the scapula. Subacromial Bursa.—Superficial to the muscles covering the top of the joint is a considerable bursa, by means of which the contiguous surfaces of the acromion process, of the coraco-acromial ligament and of the deltoid muscle, are lubricated, so as to facilitate the movements of the subjacent head of the humerus. Movements.—The shoulder-joint, being a ball and socket joint, allows of angular movement in all its varieties, as well as of rotation. In flexion the arm is earned forwards and somewhat inwards, in extension backwards and somewhat outwards; in abduction and adduction the humerus moves in directions more or less at right angles to the foregoing. The movements of extension and adduction are very limited, being restrained by the coraco-humeral ligament. Flexion and. abduction are the movements by which the humerus is raised, and are admitted to the extent of 90°, but are then checked by the upper end of the bone meeting the coraco-acromial ligament, and farther elevation of the arm is effected by the rotation of the scapula before described. In rotation the humerus revolves about its long axis; the whole range of the movement is about a quarter of a circle. The arch formed by the acromion, the coracoid process, and the coraco- acromial ligament, lined by the subacromial bursa, forms a sort of secondary socket in which the extremity of the humerus, covered by the tendons inserted into the great tuberosity, revolves, and against which it is pressed when the weight of the body is made to rest upon the arms. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. The bones of the forearm are united by a superior and an inferior articulation and an interosseous membrane. In the SUPERIOR RADIO-ULNAR articulation the head of the radius is received into the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna and is held in position by the annular or orbicular ligament. This ligament is a strong band of fibres attached to the ulna in front and behind, at the extremities of the small sigmoid cavity, and forming about four-fifths of a ring which encircles the head of the radius and binds it firmly in its situation. The external lateral ligament of the elbow is inserted into its outer surface ; its deep surface is smooth, and is lined by the synovial membrane of the elbow-joint. The inferior radio-ulnar articulation.—The connection between