MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 2S0 opposite the molar teeth, and by its posterior margin to the pterygo- maxillary ligament, a narrow band of tendinous fibres, which extends from the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate to the mylo- hyoid ridge of the lower jaw close to the last molar tooth, and is placed between the buccinator muscle and the superior constrictor of the pharynx (fig. 203, p. 297). From these parts the fibres of the muscle are directed forwards, approaching each other, so that the muscle is narrowed and proportionally thickened near the angle of the mouth, where it becomes incorporated with the orbicularis. The fibres near the middle of the muscle cross each other, those from above passing into the lower lip, and those from below into the upper one ; but the higher and lower fibres are directed into the corresponding lip without decussation. Relations.—The buccinator is covered and supported by a thin fascia, which is closely adherent to the muscular fibres ; and is overlapped by the depressor anguli oris, by the upper fibres of the platysma myoides, and by the masseter and zygo- maticus major, from which it is separated by a quantity of soft fat. Opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, its fibres give passage to the duct of the parotid gland. The depressor anguli oris, or triangularis menti muscle, is broad at its origin from the external oblique line of the lower jaw ; passing upwards it is collected into a narrower bundle, which joins the orbicularis and other muscles at the angle of the mouth. Relations.—This muscle is covered only by the skin and fat; it conceals part of the buccinator and of the depressor of the lower lip. Variety.—The transversus menti (Santorini) is a small band of muscular fibres sometimes found arising from the inner border of the depressor, and curving downwards and inwards below the chin across the mesial line to the corresponding part of the opposite side. The depressor labii inferior is, or quadratus menti muscle, arises from the lower jaw by a line of attachment extending from near the sym- physis to a little beyond the mental foramen ; thence it ascends with an inward inclination, unites with its fellow, and blending with the orbicularis oris is inserted into the lower lip. Its fibres are intermixed with much adipose matter. The levator lafoii inferioris, or levator menti muscle, arises by a narrow head from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw, and expands as it is directed downwards and slightly forwards, between the depressors of the lower lip, to be inserted into the integument of the chin. Serves.—All the superficial muscles of the scalp and face previously described receive their motor fibres from one source, viz., the facial or seventh cranial nerve. The expression of the passions by the varying states of the skin of the forehead and eyebrows, the nostrils and mouth, the closure of the eyelids, the dilatation of the nostrils in breathing, and the movements of the lips in the prehension of food and otherwise, together with the movements of the scalp and external ear, vdien they are possible,—are all under the influence of this nerve, which was therefore considered by Sir Charles Bell to be a special nerve of respiration and expression. Actions.—The orbicularis oris acting alone draws the lips together in both the vertical and transverse directions. Acting in conjunction with the buccinators it closes the lips, while at the same time they are elongated transversely. Its facial portion acting alone projects the lips. The labial portion, wdien acting in concert with the converging muscles, tightens the lips, one or both, against the teeth. The convergent muscles each draw their oral points of insertion in a direction corresponding to that of their muscular fibres. The common elevator of the lijJ