33 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. THE SCAPULA. The scapula is placed upon the upper and back part of the thorax, and forms the posterior part of the shoulder-girdle. It is not attached directly to the trunk, but is articulated -with the outer end of the clavicle, and from it is suspended the humerus in the shoulder-joint. It consists of a triangular blade or body, supporting two large processes. The surfaces of the body are anterior and posterior ; the borders superior, internal or vertebral, and external or axillary ; the angles superior, inferior, and external; the last, being the thickest part Fig CS a. Fig. 68 b. Fig. 68 a.—Right Scapula from behind. (A.T.) % 1, head and glenoid cavity ; 2, superior angle ; 3, inferior angle ; 4, spine ; 4, at the Base, triangular smooth surface of the spine ; 5, acromion ; 6, coracoid process ; 7, supra- spinous fossa : 7', infraspinous fossa ; 1 to 2, superior border ; 2 to 3, vertebral border ; 1 to 3, axillary border ; 10, oval surface of origin of the teres major muscle ; 11, oblique impression for the teres minor muscle ; 12, the rough ridge where the long head of the triceps rises; 13, suprascapular notch ; 14, neck, below the great scapular notch. Fig. 68 Right scapula from before. (A.T.) ^ 1, 5, 6, and 13, as in fig. 68 a ; 5' articular facet on the acromion for the clavicle ; 8, subscapular fossa ; 9, 9', surfaces giving attachment to the upper and lower parts of the serratus magnus muscle. of the bone, and bearing the large articular surface, is distinguished as the head, and is supported upon a neck. The processes are an anterior, coracoid process, and a posterior, the spine, which is produced into the acromion. The anterior surface or venter, looking also considerably inwards, presents a concavity, the sub scapular fossa, occupied by the subscapulaiis muscle, and marked by oblique prominent lines converging upwards and outwards, which give attachment to the tendinous intersections of that muscle. Separated from this concavity, are two smaller fiat surfaces;