OFFSETS OF THE SOLAR PLEXUS. 6G3 plexus and the outer part of the semilunar ganglion, a few filaments being added from the diaphragmatic plexus. They are short, but numerous in comparison with the size of the body which they supply : they enter the upper and inner parts of the suprarenal capsule. These nerves are continuous below with the renal plexus. The plexus is joined by branches from one of the splanchnic nerves, and presents a ganglion (gcingl. splanchnico-svprarenale), where it is connected with those branches. The plexus and ganglion are smaller on the left than on the right side. Renal plexus.—The nerves forming the renal plexus, fifteen or twenty in number, emanate for the most part from the outer side of the semilunar ganglion; but some are added from the solar and aortic plexuses. Moreover, filaments from the smallest splanchnic nerve, and occasionally from the other splanchnic nerves, terminate in the renal plexus. In their course along the renal artery, ganglia of different sizes {renal ganglia) are formed on these nerves. Lastly, dividing with the branching of the vessel, the nerves follow the renal arteries into the sub- stance of the kidney. On the right side some filaments are furnished to the vena cava, behind which the plexus passes with the renal artery ; and on both sides offsets pass to the spermatic plexus. Spermatic plexus.—This small plexus commences in the renal, but receives in its course along the spermatic artery an accession from the aortic plexus. Continuing downwards to the testis, the spermatic nerves are connected with others which accompany the vas deferens and its artery from the pelvis. In the female, the plexus, like the artery, is distributed to the ovary and the uterus. Cceliac plexus.—This plexus is of large size, and is derived from the fore part of the great epigastric plexus. It surrounds the cceliac axis in a kind of membranous sheath, and subdivides, with the artery, into coronary, hepatic, and splenic plexuses, the branches of which form communications corresponding with the arches of the arterial anasto- mosis. The plexus receives offsets from one or more of the splanchnic nerves, and on the left side a considerable branch from the right pneumo-gastric nerve is continued into it. The coronary plexus is placed with its artery along the small curvature of the stomach, and unites with the nerves which accompany the pyloric artery, as well as with branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves. The nerves of this plexus enter the coats of the stomach, after running a short distance beneath the peritoneum. The hepatic plexus, the largest of the three divisions of the cceliac plexus, ascends with the hepatic vessels and the bile-duct, and, entering the substance of the liver, ramifies on the branches of the portal vein and the hepatic artery. Offsets from the left pneumo-gastric nerve join the hepatic plexus at the left side of the vessels. From this plexus fila- ments are furnished to the right suprarenal plexus, as well as other secondary plexuses which follow the branches of the hepatic artery. Thus there is a cystic plexus to the gall-bladder ; and there are pyloric, gastro-epiploic, and pancreatico-duodenal p>lcxuses, which unite with coronary, splenic, and mesenteric nerves. The splenic plexus, continued on the splenic artery and its branches into the substance of the spleen, is reinforced at its beginning by branches from the left semilunar ganglion, and by filaments from the