642 NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. divides into a superficial and a deep branch, having previously furnished offsets to the flexor accessorius and the abductor minimi digiti. (a) The superficial portion separates into two digital branches, which have the same general arrangement as the digital branches of the internal plantar nerve. The outermost of these is undivided, and runs along the Fig. 361.—Superficial and deep distribution of the plantar nerves (after Hirschfeld and Le- veills, slightly modified). (A. T.) J The flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor hallucis and abductor minimi digiti, a part of the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, together with the lumbricales muscles, have been removed so as to bring into view the transversus and interosseous muscles in the middle of the foot. a, upon the posterior extremity of the flexor brevis digitorum, near which, descending over the heel, are seen ramifications of the calcaneal branch of the posterior tibial nerve ; b, abductor hallucis ; c, tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, divided close to the place where it is joined by the flexor accessorius ; d, abductor minimi digiti ; e, tendon of the flexor longus hallucis between the two portions of the flexor brevis hallucis ; 1, internal plantar nerve giving twigs to the abductor hallucis, and 1', a branch to the flexor brevis digitorum, cut short ; 2, inner branch of the internal plantar nerve, giving branches to the flexor brevis hallucis, and forming 2', the internal collateral nerve of the great toe ; 3, continuation of the internal plantar nerve, dividing into three branches, which form, 3', 3', 3', the plantar digital nerves of the first and second, second and third, and third and fourth toes ; 4, external plantar nerve ; 4', its branch to the abductor minimi digiti ; 5, twig of union between the plantar nerves ; 6, superficial branch of the ex- ternal plantar nerve, dividing into 6', 6', the collateral digital nerves of the fourth and fifth toes and the external nerve of the fifth ; 7, deep branch of the external plantar nerve. outer side of the little toe : it is smaller than the other, and pierces the plantar fascia farther back. The short flexor muscle of the little toe, and sometimes one or both of the interosseous muscles of the fourth space, receive branches from this nerve. The larger digital branch communicates with an offset from the internal plantar nerve, and bifurcates near the cleft between the fourth and fifth toes to supply one side of each. (■b) The deep or muscular part of the external plantar nerve dips into the sole of the foot with the external plantar artery, under cover of the tendons of the flexor muscles and the accessorius, and terminates in numerous branches for the following muscles:—all the interosseous (dorsal and plantar) except occasionally one or both of those in the fourth space, the two outer lumbricales, the adductor hallucis and the trans- versus pedis. Summary of the internal popliteal nerve.—This nerve sup- plies all the muscles of the back of the leg and sole of the foot, and the integument of the plantar aspect of the toes, the sole of the foot, and in part that of the lower half of the back of the leg. External popliteal or peroneal nerve.—This nerve descends Fig. 361.