651 CERVICAL PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. Fig. 364.—Diagrammatic outline op the sym- pathetic COP.I) op one side in connection with THE SPINAL NERVES. Tlie full description of this figure will be found at p. 590. On the right side the following letters indicate parts of the sympathetic nerves, viz.—a, superior cervical ganglion, communicating with the upper cervical spinal nerves and continued below into the great sympathetic cord ; 6, middle cervical ganglion ; e, d, lower cervical ganglion united with the first dorsal : d', eleventh dorsal ganglion; from the fifth to the ninth dorsal ganglia the origins of the great splanchnic nerve are shown ; l, lowest dorsal or upper lumbar ganglion ; ss, upper sacral ganglion. In the whole extent of the sympathetic cord, the twigs of union witli the spinal nerves are shown. veins of the spinal canal, and to the bodies of the vertebral (Luschka, “ Die Nerven d. menschl. Wirbelkanales,” Tubingen, 1850; Riidinger,“ Ueb. d.Verbreitung d. Sympathicus i. d. aninralen Rohre Miinchen, 1803). The great prevertebral plexuses comprise three large aggregations of nerves, or nerves and ganglia, situated in front of the spine, and occupying respectively the thorax, the abdomen, and the pelvis. They are single and median, and arc named respectively the cardiac, the solar, and the hypogastric plexus. These plexuses receive branches from the cerebro-spinal nerves, as well as from both the gangliated cords above noticed, and they constitute centres from which the viscera are supplied with nerves. CERVICAL PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. In the neck, each gangliated cord is deeply placed behind the sheath of the great cervical blood-vessels, and in con- tact with the muscles which immediately cover the fore part of the vertebral column. It comprises three ganglia, the first of which is placed near the base of the skull, the second in the lower part of the neck, and the third immediately above the neck of the first rib. UPPER CERVICAL GANGLION. This is the largest ganglion of the great sympathetic cord. It is continued