Fig. 204.—View of Fig. 204. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 298 phagus ; 5, internal terminate on the raphe about an inch below the basilar process. From its lower border a few fibres turn downwards into the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. Hflat io ns.—This muscle is in contact posteriorly with the cervical vertebras and the prevertebral muscles ; laterally with the thyroid body, the carotid arteries and the stemo-thyroid muscle. It covers the middle constrictor, the stylo-pharyn- geus, the palato-pharyngeus and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The superior laryngeal nerve and vessels pass inwards to the larynx above its upper border, and the inferior ascend beneath its lower border. The middle constrictor muscle arises from the large and small cornua of the hyoid bone, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament: its fibres, diverging greatly, pass back to the middle line of the pharynx behind, the lowest fibres inclining downwards beneath the inferior constrictor, the highest ascending and overlapping the superior constrictor, and the intermediate fibres running transversely. ^Relations.—This muscle is separated from the superior constrictor by the stylo- pharyngeus muscle, while between its origin and that of the inferior constrictor the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels pierce the thyro-hyoid membrane. THE MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX, &C., from behind (after Dourgery). J The hack part of the skull, the ver- tebral column and back parts of the ribs are removed, a, cut surface of the basilar process; b, clavicle ; c, first rib ; d, ramus of the lower jaw; e, posterior extremity of the great cornu of the hyoid bone; /, pos- terior surface of the manubrium; 1, supe- rior constrictor muscle of the pharynx; above it the fibrous mem- brane which closes the pharynx; 2, middle constrictor; 2', a dot- ted line, indicating the direction of the lower part of the mus- cle ; 3, the inferior constrictor; 4, oeso- pterygoid; 6, stylo- glossus ; 7, posterior belly of the digastric; 8, a portion of the stylo-hyoid surround- ing the tendon of the digastric ; 9, sterno-mastoid ; 10, anterior belly of the omo-hyoid ; 11, sterno-thyroid muscle (represented somewhat too broad). Varieties.—The middle constrictor has been seen to receive fibres from the body of the hyoid bone, from the tongue, and from the hinder part of the mylo-