291 INFKAHYOID MUSCLES. one side has been seen (G. D. T.). The muscular fibres are occasionally interrupted by a transverse tendinous intersection at the level of the intermediate tendon of the omo-hyoid, or hr rare cases opposite the insertion of the sterno-tliyioid. The sterno-thyroid, broader find shorter than the preceding muscle, Dehind which it lies, arises from the thoracic surface of the first piece of the sternum, lower down and more internally than the sterno-hyoid, and variably from the first and second rib-cartilages ; it ascends, diverging a little from its fellow, and is inserted into the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Fig. 200.—Muscles op the NECK, FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) -A Fig. 200. On the right side, the platys- ma alone has been removed ; on the left side, both bellies of the digastric, the stylo-hyoid, mylo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid muscles have been removed : a, symphysis, b, angle of the lower jaw ; c, body of the hyoid bone ; d, mastoid process ; e, placed on the front of the thyroid cartil- age, points to the tbyro-hyoid muscle ; /, upper part of the sternum ; g, lateral lobe, and +, isthmus of the thyroid body ; above +, the front of the cricoid cartilage and the crico-thyroid muscle ; 1, pos- terior, and 1', anterior belly of right digastric muscle ; 2, right mylo-hyoid ; 3, left genio-hyoid ; 4, liyo-glossus ; 5, stylo-glossus ; 5', a portion of it seen on the right side ; 6, stylo-hyoid of the right side ; 7, stylo-pharyngeus of the left side ; 8, placed on the levator scapulae, points to the left middle constrictor of pharynx; 9, placed on the middle scalenus, points to the left inferior constrictor ; right sterno-hyoid; 11, placed on the left sterno-thyroid, points also to the lower part of the right muscle ; 12, placed on the right sterno-mastoid, points to the anterior and posterior bellies of the right omo-hyoid. the 10, Relations.—The greater part of its anterior surface is concealed by the sternum and the sterno-hyoid muscle, as well as by the sterno-mastoid. By its deep sur- face it rests on the innominate vein, the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, and the thyroid body. The inner margin is contiguous to the muscle of the other side in the lower part of the neck. Varieties.—The two sterno-thyroid muscles are frequently united across the middle line at their origins. Absence of the muscle has been observed (Macalister), also doubling. It is occasionally partly crossed by transverse or oblique tendinous, lines. At the upper extremity a few fibres are often continued into the thyro- hyoid muscle or into the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. From the outer border a slip is occasionally given off to the sheath of the carotid vessels, covering them as high as the thyroid cartilage (costo-fascialis, Wood). The thyro-hyoid muscle forms a continuation upwards of the pre- ceding ; it arises from the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, u 2