202 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. and is inserted into the lower border of the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone. Relations.—This muscle is concealed in great part by the stemo-hyoid and omo- hyoid ; it rests on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and on the thyro-hyoid mem- brane. Between that membrane and the muscle, the superior laryngeal nerve and artery are placed before entering the larynx. The omo-liyoid is a long- ribbon-shaped muscle, consisting of two bellies united by an intervening tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, near the suprascapular notch, and occasionally from the ligament which crosses the notch. Thence it extends forwards and only slightly upwards, across the root of the neck, till it passes beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and then, curving rapidly, it ascends nearly vertically, to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone immediately outside the sterno-hyoid. The tendon which divides the muscle is placed beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and varies much in length and form in different bodies. The tendon is enclosed within the deep cervical fascia, which, after forming a sort of sheath for it, is prolonged downwards, and becomes attached to the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib ; and by this means, as also by fascia investing the posterior belly and descending to the clavicle, the muscle is maintained in its bent position. Relations.—At its scapular origin the muscle is covered by the trapezius, in the middle of its course by the sterno-mastoid : the two bellies appear one in each of the triangles of the neck, the anterior crossing the common carotid artery, the pos- terior bounding the small triangle in which the subclavian artery is found ; it also lies over the scaleni muscles, the lower cervical nerves, the sheath of the common carotid artery and jugular vein, and the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. Varieties.—These are very frequent. The commonest is an attachment to the clavicle, which may be the sole origin of the posterior belly, or it may be by a super- numerary belly. Complete doubling of the muscle has been observed in a few cases. On the other hand entire absence on both sides is recorded ; also absence of the anterior belly, its place being taken by a band of fascia. The anterior belly is sometimes fused with the sterno-hyoid. Nerves.—The infrahyoid muscles receive their motor nerves mainly from the hypoglossal, the thyro-hyoid by a direct branch from the trunk of the nerve, the rest from the descending branch in combination with the communicating branches from the second and third cervical nerves. SUPRAHYOID MUSCLES. The digastric muscle consists of two elongated fleshy bellies united by an intervening rounded tendon. The posterior belly arises from the digastric fossa of the temporal bone, and is directed downwards, forwards and inwards, tapering gradually, towards the hyoid bone: the anterior is attached to a rough depression on the lower border of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis menti; it is shorter and broader than the pos- terior belly, and is directed downwards, backwards, and slightly out- wards. The intervening tendon is connected to the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone by a broad band of aponeurotic fibres and by the fleshy fibres of the stylo-hyoid muscle, through which the tendon passes. Relations.—The posterior belly is for the most part concealed by the mastoid