MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 256 lower and inner part; this usually ends on the inner side of the tendo Achillis, but it is sometimes attached separately to the os calcis, or to the internal annular ligament. The tendo Achillis, the thickest and strongest tendon in the body, is formed by the union of the flat tendons of the gastrocnemius and soleus. Broad at its commencement near the middle of the leg, it contracts as it proceeds downwards and becomes thicker to within about an inch and a half of the heel; it then expands slightly to be inserted into the middle part of the posterior surface of the tuberosity of the os calcis. A synovial bursa is interposed between the upper part of the tube- rosity and the tendon. The plantaris muscle arises from the femur immediately above the external condyle, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; its muscular part is from three to four inches in length, and terminates in a long slender tendon, which inclines inwards between the gastrocnemius and soleus, and, running along the inner border of the tendo Achillis, is inserted by the side of that into the posterior part of the calcaneum. Varieties.—The plantaris varies in its mode of termination ; it frequently joins the tendo Achillis, or ends in the deep fascia of the leg-, or in the internal annular ligament. Its tendon is sometimes enclosed in the lower part of the tendo Achillis. It is frequently absent altogether. This muscle, which is little developed and almost vestigial in man, is of large size in some animals, being prolonged over the calcaneum to the plantar fascia and the short flexor of the toes. The deep group of posterior muscles of the leg is in close contact with the bones; it consists of the popliteus, flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, and tibialis posticus. The popliteus, a short muscle placed below the knee, arises by a rounded tendon, about an inch in length, from the lower part of the groove on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur, within the external lateral ligament and capsule of the knee-joint; it is in contact with the external semilunar flbro-cartilage, and receives addi- tional fibres from the posterior ligament of the joint. The muscular fibres diverge as they pass downwards and inwards, and are inserted into the triangular surface of the tibia above the oblique line, and into the aponeurosis covering the muscle. Its tendon occupies the groove on the femur only when the knee-joint is fully flexed. Relations.—The popliteus is bound down by an aponeurosis, principally derived from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. The plantaris and gastro- cnemius muscles, the popliteal vessels and internal popliteal nerve lie upon its posterior surface. The synovial membrane of the knee-joint sends a prolongation downwards between its tendon and the back of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Varieties.—This muscle has been seen with an additional head of origin from the sesamoid bone in the outer head of the gastrocnemius. The popliteus minor (Calori) is a muscular slip of rare occurrence, arising from the femur on the inner side of the plantaris, and inserted into the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The pcronco-tibialis is a small muscle described by W. Gruber, and found by him in the proportion of 1 in 7 in a large number of subjects. It arises from the inner side of the head of the fibula, and is inserted into the upper end of the oblique line of the tibia, being situated beneath the popliteus. It is constant in apes. (Arch. f. Anat., 1877, p. 401, and 1878, p. 484.) The three remaining muscles of this group are bound clown together by a deep fascia, which extends between the tibia and fibula, and sepa- rates hem from the soleus.