MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 2G6 plantar nerve ; all the others, including' the flexor accessorius and the two outer lumbricales, are supplied by the external plantar nerve. Actions of the Muscles of the Leg1 and Foot.—There is only one muscle of the leg, viz., the popliteus, which acts on the knee-joint alone. Its principal action is that of a rotator inwards of the leg, but it also assists in bending the knee. It comes into play especially in the commencement of flexion, producing the inward rotation of the tibia (or outward rotation of the femur), which is essential to that stage of the movement. It may here be observed that owing to the difference in the direction of the bend at the ankle, as compared with that at the wrist-joint, some confusion is apt to arise in the description of the action of the muscles of the leg upon the foot. As it is obvious from morphological considerations that the anterior sur- face of the leg and the dorsal surface of the foot belong to the general extensor surface of the limb, corresponding with the back of the forearm and the dorsum of the hand ; and that the back of the leg and the sole of the foot belong in the same way to the general flexor surface corresponding with the front of the fore- arm and the palm of the hand, the foot being in a position of over-extension, it follows that the muscles on the anterior aspect of the leg are really extensors, and that their action in moving the foot so as to approximate the toes to the front of the leg merely increases the over-extension ; while, on the other hand, the muscles on the posterior aspect of the leg are really flexors, and their action in straightening the ankle-joint is to reduce merely this over-extension by an opposite movement of flexion. Nevertheless, it has been customary to apply the name of flexion to the action of raising the foot on the front of the leg, and that of extension to its depression. In the following description the usual terms are employed. The gastrocnemius acts both as a flexor of the knee and an extensor of the ankle-joint. When the anterior muscles of the leg fix the ankle-joint, it is fitted to act as a flexor of the knee; when the knee is fixed either by being placed in complete extension or by the sustained action of the extensor muscles, the gastro- cnemius acts entirely on the foot, and combines with the soleus in lifting the heel from the ground, and in raising the body on the toes. The tibialis anticus and peroneus tcrtius are flexors of the ankle ; the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus and brevis are extensors. The two tibial muscles acting together produce the movement of inversion of the foot, in which action they are aided by the flexors of the toes. The three peronei and the extensors of the toes draw the foot upwards and outwards, and thus produce the movement of eversion. The peroneus longus, in crossing the foot inferiorly, strengthens the transverse arch formed by the metatarsal bones and anterior range of tarsal bones ; especially when that arch is pressed upon by the weight of the body falling on the balls of the toes, as in stooping with bent knees. 1h.Qfl-e.vor and extensor muscles of the toes, including the lumbricales and inter- osseous muscles, act like the corresponding muscles in the hand. The direction of the flexor longus digitorum is, however, modified by the flexor accessorius, so as to bring its line of action into the direction of the middle of the foot and of the short flexor. The tibialis posticus and the flexors of the toes give important assistance to the ligaments and the plantar fascia in supporting the longitudinal arches of the foot. MORPHOLOGY OF THE LIMB-MUSCLES. It has already been mentioned (p. 1S8) that the muscles of the limbs and limb- girdles are primarily derived mainly from the ventro-lateral division of the epaxial set of muscles. In the case of the upper limbs there are no muscles of hypaxial origin, but in the lower limb there are at least two muscles which may be regarded as prolongations outwards from the hypaxial set, one passing to its inner and anterior (preaxial) aspect (psoas), the other to its posterior and outer (postaxial) aspect (pyriformis). These two muscles are consequently without homologues in the upper limbs. As each limb begins bud-like to project from the side of the embryo, it may be supposed to receive an enveloping sheath of