258 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Relations.— It rests upon the tibia and upon the tibialis posticus muscle, crossing the latter obliquely in the lower third of the leg. It is covered at the upper part by the soleus and inferiorly by the aponeurosis of the leg. Upon it also lie the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Varieties.—A supplementary head, flexor accessorius longus digitorum, is not unfrequently found rising from the fibula, or the tibia, or the deep fascia, and ending in a tendon which, after passing beneath the internal annular ligament, joins the tendon of the long flexor, or the accessorius. It has also been seen re- placing the latter muscle. It rarely sends a slip to the flexor hallucis tendon. Gies describes an accessory slip from the tibialis anticus, which joined the flexor digitorum at the ankle. A flexor proprius digiti secundi was found by Bahnsen, arising from the back of the tibia. Intimately connected with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum are the flexor accessorius and the lumbricales muscles, which, although Fig. 187.—Second layer of muscles of the sole. £ b, tendon of flexor longus digitorum ; c, tendon of flexor longus hallucis ; e, long plantar ligament; 2, tendon of flexor brevis digitorum to second toe, cut short; 4, flexor accessorius ; 5, first lumbricalis ; 6, 6, flexor brevis hallucis; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti; 10, third plantar interosseous muscle. they are situated in tlie foot, may he most conveniently described in this place. The flexor accessorius arises by two heads, the internal and larger of which is fleshy, and is attached to the inner surface of the calcanemn, while the external, flat, narrow, and tendinous, is attached to the outer surface of the calcanemn a little in front of the external tubercle, and to the long plantar form a muscular mass which is inserted into the external border and upper surface of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. Varieties.—The outer head of the muscle is often absent. The number of digital tendons to which the fibres of the accessorius can he fol- lowed is subject to considerable variation. Most frequently offsets are sent to the second third and fourth toes ; in many cases however to the fifth as well; occasionally to two toes only. More rarely a slip joins the tendon of the flexor hallucis. and the muscle has been seen to end entirely on that tendon (G. D. T). The lumbricales muscles, four in number, arise from the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum at their point of division, each being, with the exception of the most internal, attached to two tendons. They pass forwards to the inner sides of the four outer toes, each muscle ending in a tendon, which is inserted into the expansion of the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the first phalanx of the toe. Varieties.—Absence of one or more of the lumbricales has been observed ; also doubling of the third and fourth. The insertion of these muscles frequently takes place, partly or wholly, into the first phalanges. ligament. These origins united