391 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. Another branch, in the majority of instances, arises from the second or third part of the artery. This is generally the posterior scapular artery, a branch which otherwise is derived from the transverse cervical, one of the divisions of the thyroid axis. Fig. 242. Fig. 242.—Origin of the branches of the right subclavian artery (modified from Wyeth). (G. I>. T.) Natural size. v, vertebral artery ; i.t, inferior thyroid artery, giving off a.c, the ascending cervical; s.c, superficial cervical artery; ss, suprascapular artery ; the last three arising together by the thyroid axis ; i.m, internal mammary artery ; s.i, superior intercostal artery,from which arises d.c, the deep cervical; p.s, posterior scapular artery. The thick dotted lines indicate the position of the inner and outer borders of the anterior scalenus muscle. Varieties.—The variations in origin of the subclavian arteries have been considered along with the peculiarities of the arch of the aorta. Course and connections.—The height to which these vessels reach in the neck is liable to some variation. Most commonly the second part of the artery is placed from half to three-quarters of an inch above the clavicle (the shoulder being depressed to the full extent), but it is sometimes, especially on the right side, placed as high as an inch, or even an inch and a half above the level of the bone ; or on the other hand it may be entirely under cover of the clavicle. The third part of the artery is not unfrequently concealed by the posterior belly of the omo-liyoid, when that muscle has an attachment to the clavicle (p. 292) or is bound down to the bone by the fascia. More rarely the artery is covered by an unusually wide clavicular attachment of the trapezius (p. 191). Occasionally the subclavian artery perforates the anterior scalenus muscle, and in rarer cases it has been found altogether in front of the muscle, and close to the subclavian vein. The vein has also been seen to pass with the artery behind the scalenus muscle ; and two or three cases are recorded in which the positions of the artery and vein were reversed. Branches.—The places of origin of the several branches of the subclavian artery are subject to frequent slight variations, and it occasionally happens that