ARTICULATIONS OF TIIE PELVIS. 164 lingers, thus giving rise to the so-called opposition. The metacarpo-plialangeal articulation of the thumb allows of only a limited amount of flexion and ex tension. ARTICXJLATIOISrS OF THE PELVIS. Articulation of the Pelvis with the last Lumbar Vertebra. —The fifth lumbar is united to the first sacral vertebra by anterior and posterior ligaments of the bodies, capsular ligaments of the articular pro- cesses, ligamenta subflava of the arches, interspinous and supraspinous ligaments, and by an intervertebral disc, all of which are similar to those between the vertebrae above. It is also attached to the pelvis by two other ligaments, as follows. The sacro-vertebral ligament is a variable fasciculus, passing from the lower border of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra obliquely downwards to the lateral part of the base of the sacrum ; its fibres diverge as they descend, and some of them join the anterior sacro- iliac ligament. The ilio-lunibar ligament is a strong band extended horizontally Fig. 139. Fig. 139.—Articulations of the pelvis and hip-joint, seen from before. The ANTERIOR HALF OF THE CAPSULAR LIGAMENT OF THE LEFT HIP-JOINT HAS BEEN REMOVED, AND TIIE FEMUR ROTATED OUTWARDS. (A. T.) 5 1, 1, anterior common ligament of the vertebra passing down to the front of tho sacrum ; 2, ilio-lumbar ligament; 3, anterior sacro-iliac ligament; between 2 and 3, on the right side, the sacro-vertebral ligament is shown, but not with sufficient distinctness ; 4, placed in the great sacro-sciatie foramen, points to the small sacro-sciatic ligament; 5, a portion of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; 6, anterior ligament of the symphysis pubis; 7, obturator membrane ; 8, capsular ligament of hip-joint: the figure is placed on its ilio-femoral band ; 9, upper part of tlie divided capsular ligament of the left hip- joint near the place of its attachment to the border of the acetabulum ; 10, placed on the os pubis of the left side above the transverse ligament of the acetabular notch. The head of the femur is withdrawn partially from the socket, so as to show the interarticular ligament stretched from the transverse ligament.