ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. 148 chondral articulations are synovial joints, formed by the processes on the adjacent margins of some of the costal cartilages, viz., from the sixth (sometimes the fifth) to the ninth, surrounded by short capsules. The joints are strengthened anteriorly by oblique ligamentous fibres, derived from the anterior intercostal aponeuroses which occupy the fore parts of the intercostal spaces. Connection of the ribs with their cartilages.—The external extremities of the cartilages are fixed into the oval depressions on the ends of the ribs, and the union receives support from the periosteum. Ligaments of the sternum.—The manubrium and body of the sternum are connected by interposed cartilage in which a fissure is some- times formed, and by anterior and posterior ligamentous fibres, which have chiefly a longitudinal direction. A layer of cartilage also inter- venes between the body and ensiform process, so long as they are not united by bone. The whole sternum is much strengthened by thick periosteum, and by the radiating bands of the costo-sternal ligaments already mentioned. Fig. 124. Fig. 124.—Articulations of the STERNUM, CLAVICLE, AND RIBS, AS SEEN FROM BEFORE. (A. T., after Arnold.) y On the right side the anterior ligaments are shown; on the left side, the front parts of the clavicle, sternum and costal cartilages have been removed so as to display the articular cavities. 1 to 10, the anterior extremities of the ribs from the first to the tenth inclusive, on the right side ; 1' to 10', the costal cartilages of the left side from the first to the tenth ; at 1', the direct union of the first costal cartilage with the sternum is shown ; at the sternal ends of the cartilages marked 2' to 6', the small synovial cavities are opened ; between the costal cartilages on the right side the anterior intercostal aponeuroses are shown stretching over the intercostal spaces ; and on the left side, by a section, small synovial cavities are shown between the adjacent edges of the costal cartilages from the 5th to the 9th ; on the front of the right half of the sternum the radi- ating anterior costo-sternal liga- ments are shown ; 11, the ensiform process ; 12, 12', the interclavicular ligament ; aud below 12, the an- terior sterno-clavicular ligament ; below 12', the stemo-clavicular ar- ticulation is opened, showing the interarticular fibro-cartilage and double synovial cavity ; 13, the costo-clavieular or rhomboid ligament. Movements of the Ribs.—The heads of the ribs are so tightly bound down to the vertebrae by the interarticular and stellate ligaments that the movements must take place round a centre situated in the costo-central articulation. The ribs generally are capable of a certain amount of elevation and depression, moving