AETEEIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 474 or one of the circumflex arteries, arising- at a higher level than usual must, how- ever, be borne in mind in considering the propriety of applying a ligature to this part of the vessel. In performing the operation, an incision about two and a half inches in length, with its centre placed over the artery, is made parallel to and half an inch below Poupart’s ligament, dividing the integument and the iliac portion of the fascia lata. Any superficial arteries that have been cut being secured, the crural sheath is then laid open, and the artery freed from its areolar investment. The vein is here to the inner side of the artery, and, being separated from that vessel by a septum in the crural sheath, does not come into view. The needle should be passed from within outwards. The superficial femoral artery may be tied either immediately below Scarpa's triangle, or in Hunter’s canal. The former position is that usually preferred by surgeons, owing to the superficial position of the vessel, and its freedom from large branches. The hip having been slightly flexed, and the thigh everted, an incision about three and a half inches long, and so placed that its centre is about four and a half inches from Poupart’s ligament, is made in the line of the artery (p. 467). The integument and fascia lata are cut through at once, and the sartorius muscle exposed. The inner border of the sartorius is then raised and drawn well outwards, together with the internal cutaneous nerve which lies along this edge of the muscle (fig. 278), and the sheath of the artery is opened in the centre of the incision and separated from the vessel. The femoral vein is not seen, as it is placed behind the artery, only a very thin layer of connective tissue being interposed between the two. The needle is to be passed from within outwards, its point being kept close to the artery. A considerable branch of the saphenous vein may be divided in making the first incision, and if so will require a ligature. To reach the artery in Hunter’s canal a longer incision is necessary, in conse- quence of the greater depth of the vessel, and it should be made a finger’s breadth internal to the line of the artery, care being taken to avoid the internal saphenous vein. The superficial structures and the fascia lata having been cut through, the sartorius muscle is exposed and is recognized by its fibres running parallel to the line of the incision. The outer border of this muscle is then freed and drawn inwards, when the aponeurosis covering the femoral vessels is laid bare, and is to be carefully divided. The sheath of the artery is now opened, avoiding the internal saphenous nerve which lies on the surface of the vessel, and the needle is to be passed from without inwards, as the vein is placed behind and slightly to the outer side of the artery. Collateral circulation.—When the common femoral artery has been tied, the circulation in the lower limb is carried on by means of the anastomoses of the internal pudic artery with the pudic branches of the femoral, of the obturator with the internal circumflex, of the circumflex iliac and gluteal with the external circumflex, and of the sciatic with the internal circumflex and upper perforating branches of the profunda. After ligature of the superficial femoral artery, blood reaches the distal portion of the limb through the anasto- moses of the descending branch of the external circumflex artery with the articular arteries of the knee, and through the communications along the back of the thigh, between the sciatic artery, the terminal branches of the internal circumflex, the perforating arteries, and the branches of the popliteal. In several instances in which the condition of the vessels has been examined after liga- ture of the femoral (or external iliac) artery, the comes nervi ischiadici has been found much enlarged, forming, with anastomotic branches from the perforating arteries, a vessel which accompanies the great sciatic nerve, and ends below in the popliteal artery or one of its branches. POPLITEAL AKTERY (I—II). The popliteal artery, continuous with the femoral, is placed at the hack of the knee, and extends along the lower fourth of the thigh and the upper sixth of the leg. It reaches from the opening in the adductor