,522 VEINS OF THE PELVIS. and, joining with the deep femoral vein, first approaches the femoral artery at the groin. The same vein is sometimes double in a small part, or more rarely in almost its whole length ; and this condition, as well as the similar variety of the popliteal vein, may be explained as resulting from the enlargement of one of a pair of small veins which constantly accompany the main arterial trunk (Langer). The external iliac vein is the continuation of the femoral vein from Poupart’s ligament to the junction of the internal iliac vein, in the neighbourhood of the lumbo-sacral articulation. It is at first internal to the artery, but as it ascends it gradually inclines to the back of that vessel. It frequently contains one valve, very rarely two (Friedreich). Near its commencement at Poupart’s ligament, the external iliac vein receives the deep circumflex iliac and epigastric veins, corresponding to the arteries of the same name, and also a pubic vein, which ascends from the obturator vein in the thyroid foramen, and frequently constitutes the principal termination of the latter vessel. VEINS OP THE PELVIS. The internal iliac vein is formed by the union of branches which accompany most of the branches of the internal iliac artery. The umbilical vein of the foetus, however, which in the cord accompanies the corresponding arteries, diverges from these arteries within the body, and passes upwards to the liver. The internal iliac vein lies behind and somewhat to the inner side of the artery, and, after a short course up- wards to the margin of the pelvis, joins with the external iliac vein, to form the common iliac. No valves are found in the trunk of the internal iliac vein, but they exist in its branches. Tributaries.—The tributaries of the internal iliac vein correspond in general to the various branches of the internal iliac artery, with the excep- tion that the internal pudic vein does not receive the main supply of blood from the dorsal vein of the penis, and that the ilio-lumbar veins open into the common iliac trunks. The visceral veins are remarkable for their size and frequent anastomoses, and form a series of plexuses, named prostatic, vesical, hcemorrhoidal, vaginal, and uterine. The gluteal, sciatic and obturator veins agree closely with the arteries of the same name. The lateral sacral veins form, by their communications with one another and with the middle sacral veins, a plexus over the anterior sur- face of the sacrum. They receive branches from the sacral canal through the anterior sacral foramina, and open at two or three points into the internal iliac vein. The internal pudic vein commences as the vein of the corpus caver- nosum and receives in its course backwards branches corresponding to the offsets of the artery in the perineum. The dorsal vein of the penis commences by branches which issue from the glans penis and prepuce and form in the first, instance two veins, one on each side of the middle line. These speedily unite and give rise to a single vessel which runs backwards between the two dorsal arteries, in the median groove on the upper surface of the penis, receiving on its way branches from the corpus spongiosum, and others from the corpora caver- nosa and the skin of the organ. At the root of the penis the dorsal vein