31 OSSIFICATION OF THE BIBS AND STEENUM. cartilage about the fourth month. After puberty the centres of two small epi- physes appear in the cartilage of the head and tubercle. These become united with the main bone by the twenty-fifth year. The tubercular epiphysis is wanting in the eleventh and twelfth. The ossification of the sternum begins about the sixth month, and usually by a single centre in the presternum. The next centre appears at the seventh month in the upper segment of the mesosternum, and ossification follows in the next two segments shortly before birth. In the lower segment ossification begins in the first year or later, in the metasternum usually not before the sixth Fig. 26. Fig. 26.—Ossification of the sternum. (R. Quain.) A, the cartilaginous sternum before the middle of fcetal life. B, the sternum of a child at birth. 1, 2, 3, & 4, mark the commencing ossific nuclei for the manubrium and three upper pieces of the body. C, the sternum soon after puberty, showing cartilage between the manubrium and body, and imperfect union of the first, second and third pieces of the body, while the third and fourth are united. D, a sternum at birth with an unusual number of ossific centres, six in the manubrium, 1', which is very uncommon ; two pairs in the lower pieces of the body 3' & 4' which is not unusual; 2, the single centre of the first piece of the body. E, example of the perforated sternum, which depends upon the imperfect union of the pairs of ossific nuclei shown in D in the lower part of the body ; this figure also shows two episternal bones, * *, C and E are reduced below the size of nature. year, and often much later. In the presternum sometimes two centres of ossi- fication appear, one above the other, and occasionally several are met with. In the upper segment of the mesosternum the centre is most commonly single, but in each of the following segments there are frequently two placed one on each side of the middle line. The lower segments of the mesosternum unite together after puberty, but the upper one often remains separate till after the twenty-fifth year. The metastemum is united to the mesosternum in middle life, the pre- stemum in more advanced life, and then not invariably. The bony parts formed from the lateral centres of the lower segments of the mesosternum, as well as of the metastemum, not unfrequently remain separate for a considerable time, and occasionally, by defect of ossification or non-union across the middle line, leave the permanent median aperture referred to on p. 27.