115 TIIE PATELLA.—THE TIBIA. Fig. 95. THE PATELLA. The patella, rotula, or knee-pan, situated at the front of the knce- Fig. 95.—Right patella. (A. T.) ^ A, from before ; B, from behind. Both views show the lower extremity pointing slightly inwards ; the posterior view shows the articular surface, divided by an ele- vated ridge into a smaller internal and a larger external part. joint, is attached inferiorly by a ligament or tendon to the tibia, and may be considered as a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor cruris. It is compressed from before backwards, and has the. form of a triangle with the apex below. Its anterior surface is subcutaneous ; the superior border is broad, and gives attachment to the extensor muscle; its inferior angle, together with the sharp border on each side, gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae. The deep surface, except at the inferior angle, is coated with cartilage for articulation with the femur, and is divided by a vertical elevation into two parts, the external of which, the larger, is transversely concave, while the internal is convex. THE TIBIA. The tibia, or shin-bone, is, next to the femur, the longest bone in the skeleton. It is the anterior and inner of the two bones of the leg, and alone communicates the weight of the trunk to the foot. It articulates with the femur, fibula, and astragalus. The superior extremity is thick and expanded, broader from side to side than from before backwards, and slightly hollowed posteriorly. On its superior aspect are placed two slightly concave articular surfaces, which sustain the femur. These are the condylar surfaces; they are ova} in form, the Internal being larger than the external, a little more hollowed, and longer from before backwards. Between them is an irreg- ular interval, depressed in front and behind, where it gives attaclnnent to the crucial ligaments and semilunar fibro-cartilages of the knee joint, and elevated in the middle, where is formed the spine. The summit of the spine presents two compressed tubercles, formed by the prolongation upwards on its sides of the margins of the condylar surfaces, the inner rising a little higher than the outer. On the sides of the upper ex- tremity of the bone are two massive eminences, the external and internal tuberosities; the outer of these, somewhat smaller than the other, forms at the junction of its anterior and external surfaces a broad prominent tubercle, and is marked at its posterior and under part by a flat surface which articulates with the fibula, while the inner, which is rounded, presents posteriorly a groove for the insertion of the semimembranosus muscle. Lower down, in front, is situated the tubercle or anterior tuberosity, marked by the attachment of the ligamentum patellae. The shaft of the tibia is three-sided, and diminishes in size as it descends for about two-thirds of its length, but increases somewhat towards its lower extremity. The internal surface is convex and, for the most part, subcutaneous ; at the upper end, by the side of the tubercle.