SHEATHS OF THE FLEXOR TENDONS. 217 frequently tlie middle or ring) has sometimes two inserted into it. Lastly, one muscle may be inserted into two fingers. The fourth has been observed to take the place of the fourth perforating tendon of the flexor profundus. Synovial bursa.—The tendons of both the superficial and deep flexors, as well as the median nerve, are surrounded beneath the annular ligament by a large and loose synovial bursa, which extends upwards to the level of the radio-carpal articulation, and downwards to a little beyond the bases of the metacarpal bones, being prolonged farther on the little finger tendons than on the others. Accor- ding to Max Schuller (deutsche med. Wochensch. 1878) this bursa is double, the sheath investing the tendons of the two ulnar fingers being separated by a longi- tudinal partition from that of the index and middle finger tendons. The latter division communicates opposite the upper border of the annular ligament, by a small aperture, with the synovial sheath of the flexor longus pollicis tendon. Fig. 167.—Bones op two fingers, with the insertions op the tendons. (It. Quain.) \ In A, the tendons of the flexor muscles are bound to the bones by the fibrous sheath. In B, the sheath has been removed, as well as the vincula accessoria ; 1, metacarpal bone ; 2, tendon of the flexor sublimis ; 3, tendon of the flexor profundus ; *, perforation of the sublimis by the profundus tendon ; 4, tendon of the extensor communis digitorum; 5, lumbricalis muscle ; 6, one of the interosseous muscles. The sheaths of the flexor tendons, by which they are bound down to the fingers, are formed opposite the shafts of the first and second phalanges by strong tendinous-looking bands of transverse fibres, vaginal ligaments, attached to the rough margins of the palmar surfaces of the phalanges. Opposite the joints, flexion is allowed by the substitution for those bands of a thin membrane, strengthened by oblique decussating fibres. The tendinous sheath has a synovial lining, which gives a separate investment to each tendon. The synovial membrane forms small folds (vincula accessoria tendinum) be- tween the tendons and the bones. There are two sets of these ; the one, liga- vienta Irevia, broad and membranous, passing between the tendons near their insertion and the lower part of the phalanx immediately above ; the other, liya- menta lonya, slender and less constant bands, joining the tendons at a higher level. Contained in the ligamentum breve of the deep flexor is a small band of yellow elastic tissue (vinculum subflavum). which stretches from the tendon to the head of the second phalanx, and may assist in drawing down the tendon after flexion of the fingers (J. Marshall, Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Eev. 1853). The flexor longus pollicis muscle, placed side by side with the flexor profundus digitorum, arises from the anterior surface of the radius, ex- tending from the oblique line to the edge of the pronator quadratus ;