SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 559 the lachrymal nerve, from the sphenopalatine ganglion, or from the sixth nerve. (See Henle, “ Nervenlehre,” 1879, S. 406.) According to Reichart the ophthalmic ganglion does not receive its sympathetic fibres by a single root, but by several fine filaments, the majority of which accompany the third nerve. Although considered here, for convenience of description, in connection with the fifth nerve, it appears from its mode of development and its arrangement in many of the lower vertebrates, that the ophthalmic ganglion is morphologically associated more intimately with the third nerve, having in fact the significance •of a spinal ganglion on that nerve (M. Marshall, Schwalbe). II.—SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The superior maxillary nerve, or second division of the fifth, is intermediate in size between the ophthalmic and the inferior maxillary trunks. It commences at the middle of the Gasserian ganglion, and, passing horizontally forwards, soon leaves the skull by the foramen rotnndum of the sphenoid bone. The nerve then crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa, and, taking the name of infraorbital, enters the infraorbital canal of the upper maxilla, by which it is conducted to the face. After emerging from the infraorbital foramen, it terminates beneath the elevator of the upper lip in branches, which spread out to the side of the nose, the eyelid, and the upper lip. Branches.—Xear its origin a fine recurrent branch passes to the dura mater and middle meningeal artery. In the spheno-maxillary fossa an orbital or temporo-malar branch ascends from the superior maxillary Fig. 319. Fig. 319.—Superior maxillary nerve and some of the orbital nerves (from Sappey, after Hirsclifeld and Leveille). § 1, Gasserian ganglion ; 2, lachrymal nerve ; 3, trunk of the superior maxillary nerve ; 4, its orbital branch ; 6, origin of its malar twig; 7, its temporal twig, joined by 5, the communicating branch from the lachrymal nerve ; 8, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 9, Vidian nerve; 10, its upper branch or great superficial petrosal nerve proceeding to join the facial nerve (11); 12, its lower branch or great deep petrosal nerve joining the sympa- thetic ; 13, 14, posterior dental nerves; 15, terminal branches of the infraorbital nerve in the face; 16, a branch of the facial uniting with some of the twigs of the infra- orbital.