309 ERECTOR SPIKE. cervicalis ascendens continued upwards from the accessorius ; 8, spinalis dorsi. On the right side, 6, marks, in the lumbar region, the insertions of the longissimus dorsi into the upper four transverse processes (the insertion into the accessory processes not being shown); in the dorsal region the narrower tendons of insertion into the lower part of the dorsal transverse processes (the six lower only are represented); 6', 6', the costal inser- tions ; 7, ilio-costalis, drawn outwards ; 7', placed between the lowest insertion of the ilio-costalis and the lowest origin of the accessorius ; 7", cervicalis ascendens ; 9, 9, semi- spinalis colli ; 10, 10, semispinalis dorsi ; 11, 11, lower dorsal and lumbar parts of the multifidus spinse, which appears again above the semispinalis colli, above the upper 9 ; 12, levatores costarum, long and short; 13, in the upper part of the figure, points by four lines to the rectus capitis posticus minor and major, and the obliqrrus inferior and superior muscles. uniting that bone to the coccyx. This tendon becomes blended below with the overlying layer of the lumbar fascia ; its deep surface gives origin also to some fibres of the multifidus spinae, and between the iliac and sacral attachments a part of the gluteus maximus arises from its border. The fasciculi of which it is composed pass nearly vertically upwards, the outer ones, above the iliac crest, being very short, while the inner ones ascend by side of the spines to the middle of the dorsal region. The fleshy fibres of the muscle are derived mostly from the oblique upper border and the deep surface of the tendon, but others spring directly from the rough posterior part of the inner surface of the ilium, beneath and outside the attachment of the tendon. The lower part of the muscle forms a large mass which projects backwards beyond the spines, and laterally beyond the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and which becomes divided below the level of the last rib into the middle and outer columns. The inner column only separates itself from the middle column in the upper dorsal region. a. The ilio-costalis or sacro-lumbalis, the first portion of the outer column, is continued from the outer and superficial portion of the common mass ; it ends in a series of tendons which incline slightly out- wards, and are inserted one into each of the lower six or seven ribs at their angles, a slender fasciculus being usually prolonged also into the accessorius. 1. The musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem (ad sacro-lumbalem) prolongs upwards the preceding muscle. It arises by flat tendons from the upper margins of the lower six ribs, internal to the tendons of the ilio-costalis, and ends superiorly by continuing the series of those tendons to the angles of the upper ribs, and to the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. c. The cervicalis ascendens consists of slips in serial continuation with the foregoing, taking origin from four or five ribs above the accessorius, and inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. Its insertions are intimately connected with those of the transversalis cervicis. d. The longissimus dorsi is both larger and longer than the ilio- costalis, its original fibres passing as high as the first dorsal vertebra. Internally it is closely connected on the surface with the spinalis dorsi, the tendinous slips springing from the upper two or three lumbar verte- brae being common to the two muscles. When those slips and the tendons of origin from the lumbar spines are cut through the inner surface of the muscle is brought into view, and it is then usually seen to receive from two to four slender accessory tendons from the lower dorsal transverse processes. The longissimus dorsi presents two series of