33G MUSCLES OF THE PEEINEUM AND PELVIS. fascia are placed the membranous portion of the urethra, the con- strictor muscle of the urethra, and Cowper’s glands, together with the pudic arteries and the arteries of the bulb, and the dorsal vein and nerves of the penis. The superior or 'posterior layer consists of right and left lateral halves, which are separated in the middle line by the urethra close to the neck of the prostate, where they are continued into the sheath of that gland derived from the recto-vesical portion of the pelvic fascia, whilst laterally they join on each side the obturator portion of the pelvic fascia close to its attachment to the pubic and ischial rami. This layer of fascia is superficial to the anterior fibres of the levator ani muscle, which lie between it and the recto-vesical fascia, and it is con- nected with a thin web of areolar tissue which extends backwards on the surface of the levator ani muscle, and is distinguished as the anal fascia. In the female the deep perineal fascia is divided in the middle by the vagina. Fasciae of the Pelvis.—The pelvic fascia is a complicated structure lining the muscles within the cavity of the pelvis and supporting the pelvic viscera. It consists of two principal parts, which are known as the obturator fascia and the redo-vesical fascia. The obturator fascia, a distinct piece on each side of the pelvis, may be regarded as the special fascia of the obturator internus muscle, the inner surface of which it covers, and around which it is fixed to the bone. It is attached above for a short distance to the iliac portion of the ilio- pectineal line ; in front, to the body of the pubis along an oblique line extending from the upper and inner part of the thyroid foramen to a little below the symphysis ; behind, to the anterior margin of the great sciatic notch, as well as to the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and below it joins the falciform process of that ligament by means of which it is connected to the ischial and pubic rami. At the upper end of the thyroid foramen its attachment to the bone is interrupted and the fascia joins the upper edge of the obturator membrane, forming an arch over the border of the muscle, and bounding below the short canal by which the obturator vessels and nerve issue. The inner surface of this fascia in its upper part looks into the pelvic cavity and is lined by peritoneum ; in its lower part it looks into the perineal space, forming the outer boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa, and in this part of the fascia the internal pudic vessels and nerve are embedded in a sheath as they course to the front of the perineum. The fascia of the pxjr if or mis is a thin and unimportant layer, which is continued backwards from the obturator fascia to the sacrum, passing in front of the pyriformis muscle and the nerves of the sacral plexus, and being perforated by the branches of the internal iliac vessels which leave the pelvis by the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The recto-vesical fascia is attached anteriorly to the back of the pubis above the obturator fascia, from which it is here separated by the origin of the levator ani, the three being, however, generally closely adherent near the bone ; laterally it springs from the obturator fascia along a curved line passing from the upper part of the obturator foramen to the ischial spine ; and posteriorly it becomes continuous with the lower part of the fascia of the pyriformis. From these attachments the fascia is directed downwards and inwards, in contact with the upper surface of the levator ani muscle, to the prostate gland, to the bladder, and to the rectum, and being farther continuous from side to side across the middle