102 BOXES OF THE UPPER LIMB. Fig. 83.—Ossification of the ulna (R. Quain). only appears some time after birth. The nucleus in the carpal extremity appears at the end of the 2nd year, while that of the head is not seen till the 5th or Cth year. The superior epiphysis and shaft unite about the 17 th or 18th year; the inferior epiphysis and shaft unite about the 20th year. The ulna is ossified similarly to the radius, but begins a little later. The nucleus of the shaft appears about the 8th week, that of the carpal extremity in the 4th or 5th year. The upper extremity grows mainly from the shaft, but at A, the ulna at birth ; B, at the end of the fourth year ; C, of a boy of about twelve years of age ; D, of a male of about nineteen or twenty years. 1, shaft ; 2, nucleus of the lower epiphysis ; 3, nucleus of the upper epiphysis. In D, the upper epiphysis is united to the shaft, while the lower is still separate. the end of the olecranon a small epiphysis is formed from a nucleus which ap- pears in the 10th year. This epiphysis is united to the shaft about the 17th year ; the inferior epiphysis about the 20th year. From what is stated above it appears that in the bones of the arm and fore- aim the epiphyses which meet at the elbow-joint begin to ossify later, and unite with their shafts earlier, than those at the opposite ends of the bones, while in the bones of the thigh and leg the epiphyses at the knee-joint are the soonest to ossify and the latest to unite with their shafts. In the bones of the arm and forearm the nutrient foramina are directed towards the elbow ; in those of the thigh and leg they are directed away from the knee. Thus in each bone the epiphysis of the extremity towards which the medullary foramen is directed is the first to be united to the shaft. The carpus is entirely cartilaginous at birth. Each carpal bone is ossified from a single nucleus. The nucleus of the os magnum appears in the first year ; that of the unciform in the first or second year ; that of the pyramidal in the third year ; those of the trapezium and semilunar bones in the fifth year ; that of the scaphoid in the sixth or seventh year; that of the trapezoid in the seventh or eighth year ; and that of the pisiform in the twelfth year. The metacarpal bones and phalanges are usually formed each from a prin- cipal centre for the shaft and one epiphysis. The ossification of the shaft begins about the eighth or ninth week. In the four inner metacarpal bones the epiphysis is at the distal extremity, while in the metacarpal bone of the thumb and in the phalanges it is placed at the proximal extremity. In many instances. Fig. 83,