VARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL. 79 general adoption can be formed. (See especially Parker and Bettany, “ The Morphology of the Skull,” 1877, and various papers by Parker in Phil. Trans.; Kolliker, “ Entwicklungsgeschichte,” 2nd ed., 1879; G-egenbaur, “Elements of Comparative Anatomy,” Eng. Trans., 1878, where also other references are given.) THE VARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL. I. Differences according: to Age.—In the earlier stages of its development the posterior part of the cranium bears a very large proportion to the anterior part ; so much so, that in the second month of foetal life the line of the tentorium cerebelli is vertical to the basis cranii, and divides the cranial cavity almost equally into two parts. The parietal region then increases rapidly in volume, along with the greater development of the cerebral hemispheres ; the frontal region next augments; and again, in the latter part of fortal life, the occipital region increases as the cerebrum extends backwards (Cleland). At the time of birth the Fig. 65.—Lateral view of the child’s head at birth. (From Leishman.) J This figure shows the elongated form of the skull in the infant, and the small proportion which the facial bears to the cranial part, and also the lateral fontanelles at the lower angles of the parietal bones. The lines indicate the various diameters. parietal region has reached its largest development in proportion to the occipital and frontal re- gions. The greatest frontal breadth is then smaller in proportion to that between the parietal eminences than afterwards. In the first years of childhood the superior parts of the cranium grow more rapidly than the base. Thus, in the frontal region, the upper part of the frontal bone grows more rapidly than its orbital plates, giving the prominent appearance of the frontal eminences peculiar to children. The face at birth scarcely reaches an eighth of the bulk of the rest of the head, while in the adult it is at least a half (Froriep, “ Characteristik des Kopfes nach dem Entwicklungsgesetz desselben,” 1815). At the same time that the face increases in bulk, the lower part of the forehead is brought forward by elongation of the anterior cranial fossa, and on the approach of adult age, especially in the male, it becomes still more prominent by the expansion of the frontal sinuses. The face becomes elongated in the progress of growth, partly by increased height of the nasal fossae and adjacent air-sinuses, partly by the growth of the teeth and the enlargement of the alveolar arches of the jaws. In old age the proportion of the face to the cranium is diminished by the loss of the teeth and absorption of the alveolar portions of the jaws. In consequence of this the upper jaw retreats, while in the lower jaw the same cause gives, especially when the mouth is closed, a greater seeming prominence to the chin. II. Sexual Differences.—The female skull is, in general, smaller, lighter, and smoother than that of the male ; the muscular impressions are not so strongly marked, the mastoid processes and the superciliary ridges are less prominent, and the frontal sinuses less developed. The cranial capacity is less, on the average, by one-tenth, than that of the male in the same race, and the frontal and occipital regions are less capacious in proportion to the parietal (Huschke). The face is smaller in proportion to the cranium, the zygomatic arches slender, and the jaws narrower and less prominent. The female skull resembles the young skull more than that of the adult male ; but it must also be admitted that it is often impossible to determine the sex by the appearance or form of a skull. Fig. 65. t