CGI SYMPATHETIC NERVES. right vagus nerve. It furnishes the left (/astro-epiploic and pancreatic plexuses, which course along the corresponding branches of the splenic artery, and, like the vessels, are distributed to the stomach and pancreas. Superior mesenteric plexus.—The plexus accompanying the superior mesenteric artery, whiter in colour and firmer than any of the preceding offsets of the solar plexus, envelopes the artery in a mem- braniform sheath, and receives a prolongation from the junction of the right pneumo-gastric nerve with the cceliac plexus. Near the root of the artery, ganglionic masses (gangl. mcseraica) occur in connection with the nerves of this plexus. The offsets of the plexus are in name and distribution the same as the vessels. In their progress to the intestine some of the nerves quit the arteries which first supported them, and are directed forwards in the intervals between the A7essels. As they proceed they divide, and unite with lateral branches, like the arteries, but without the same regularity : they finally pass upon the intestine along the line of attachment of the mesentery. Aortic plexus.—The aortic or intermesenteric plexus, placed along the abdominal aorta, and occupying the interval between the origins of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries, consists, for the most part, of two lateral cords, connected with the semilunar ganglia and renal plexuses, which are extended on the sides of the aorta, and which meet in several communicating branches over the front of that vessel. It is joined by branches from some of the lumbar ganglia, and presents not unfrequently one or more distinct ganglionic enlargements towards its centre. The aortic plexus furnishes the inferior mesenteric plexus and part of the spermatic, gives some filaments to the lower vena cava, and ends below in the hypogastric plexus. Inferior mesenteric plexus.—This plexus is derived principally from the left lateral part of the aortic plexus, and closely surrounds with a network the inferior mesenteric artery. It distributes nerves to the left or descending part and the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and assists in supplying the rectum. The nerves of this plexus, like those of the superior mesenteric plexus, are firm in texture and of a whitish colour. The highest branches (those on the left colic artery) are connected with the last branches (middle colic) of the superior mesenteric plexus, while others in the pelvis unite with offsets derived from the pelvic plexus. HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS. The hypogastric plexus, the assemblage of nerves destined for the supply of the viscera of the pelvis, lies, invested in a sheath of dense connective tissue, in the interval between the two common iliac arteries. It is formed by the prolongations of the aortic plexus on each side, which receive considerable branches from the lumbar ganglia, and, after crossing the common iliac artery, interlace in the form of a flat plexiform. mass placed in front of the lowest lumbar vertebra. The plexus contains no distinct ganglia. At the lower end it divides into two parts, which are directed forwards, one to each side of the pelvic viscera, and form the pelvic plexuses.