54 is placed at the lower end of the groove for the nasal Fig. 44. Fig. 44.—Right nasal bone. (A. T.) § BONES OP THE HEAD. THE NASAL BONE. The nasal bones form the bridge of the nose. They are thick and narrow above, but gradually become wider and thinner below. The superior border of each is serrated, and articulates with the frontal bone; the inferior supports the lateral nasal cartilage; the external border, the longest, articulates with the ascending process of the superior A, from the front ; B, from behind. 1, upper or frontal border; 2, internal border ; 3, ex- ternal or maxillary border ; 4, lower free border ; in B, 4 nerve. maxillary bone; and the internal with its fellow, with the nasal spine of the frontal bone and with the perpendicular plate of the eth- moid. The anterior surface, concave from above down at its upper part, convex in the rest of its extent, presents a minute vascular foramen; the posterior or nasal surface is marked by a groove for the passage of the nasal nerve. THE LACHRYMAL BONE. The lachrymal hone, or os unguis, is a thin scale of bone placed at the anterior and inner part of the orbit. It articulates superiorly with the frontal bone, posteriorly with the orbital plate of the ethmoid, and anteriorly with the nasal process of the superior maxilla. The external surface is divided by a vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest, into two parts: the anterior is grooved, lachrymal groove, for the Fig. 45. 45_—Right lachrymal bone, from the outside. (A. T.) § §1, upper or frontal border ; 2, orbital surface ; 3, lachrymal groove ; 4, the process which meets the inferior turbinate bone. lachrymal sac, and this part is prolonged interiorly beyond the orbit in the form of a pointed process which 4 completes the canal of the nasal duct on the inner side and articulates with the inferior turbinate bone; the posterior part, broader, is flat, continuous with the orbital surface of the ethmoid, and is produced below into a hook-like projection, hamular process, which curves forwards in the lachrymal notch of the superior maxilla and bounds the orifice of the nasal duct on the outer side. The internal surface superiorly completes some anterior ethmoidal cells, and interiorly looks into the middle meatus of the nose. THE INFERIOR TURBINATE BONE. The inferior turbinate or spongy bone, maxilloturhinal, is a slender lamina, attached by the upper margin along the lateral wall of the nose, and projecting into the nasal cavity, so as to divide the middle from the inferior meatus. It is slightly convoluted, its convexity looking inwards, and its lower margin is free, slightly thickened and rolled upon itself. The attached margin articulates anteriorly with the