DORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 310 insertions. The inner row of insertions is a series of rounded tendons attached to the transverse processes of all the dorsal, and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The outer insertions form a series of thin fleshy processes which are attached in the dorsal region to the lowest nine or ten ribs, between their tubercles and angles, and in the lumbar region to the whole length of the transverse processes, and beyond these to the lumbar fascia connected with them. e. The transversalis cervicis muscle prolongs upwards the column of fibres of the longissimus dorsi. It arises from the transverse processes of the highest four or five dorsal vertebrae, and occasionally the last cervical, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of five cervical vertebrae, from the second to the sixth inclusive. It generally receives a slip of the original fibres of the longissimus dorsi. /. The trachelo-mastoid muscle (transversalis capitis), which may be regarded as the continuation of the longissimus dorsi to the head, arises in close connection with the transversalis cervicis from the upper dorsal transverse processes, and also from the articular processes of the lower three or four cervical vertebrae, and, forming a thin flat muscle, passes to be inserted into the posterior margin of the mastoid process, under cover of the splenius and sterno-mastoid muscles. It is the only muscle which lies between the splenius and complexus, and the only portion of the erector spinae concealed by the former. It is usually crossed by a tendinous intersection a little below its insertion. (j. The spinalis dorsi is a long narrow muscle placed at the inner side of the longissimus dorsi, and closely connected with it. It receives the slender tendinous fasciculi from the lowest two or three dorsal spines, and other fleshy fibres spring from the tendons which pass from the upper lumbar spines into the longissimus. Its insertion takes place into a variable number, from four to nine, of the upper dorsal spines, the slips being closely adherent to those of the subjacent semispinalis muscle. Varieties.—The spinalis cervicis is an inconstant muscle, arising variably from the ligamentum nuchas and the seventh cervical spine, or from one or two spines above or below this, and inserted mainly into the spine of the axis, occasionally also into those of the third and fourth cervical vertebrae. (See ILenle and Heilen- beck, Muller’s Archiv, 1837). The name sacro-coccygcus posticus, or extensor coccygis, has been given to slender fibres occasionally found extending from the lower end of the sacrum to the coccyx, and representing the extensor of the caudal vertebrae of the lower animals. Complexus and traxsverso-spixales.—The muscles of this group, comprising the complexus, semispinalis, multifidus spinas, and rotatores dorsi, present the feature in common of ascending with an inward inclination, and are thus distinguished from those last described. The most superficial, the complexus, has the longest and most vertical fibres, but is the shortest in its whole extent, being limited to the upper part of the dorsal and the cervical regions ; the muscle beneath it, the semi- spinalis, occupies the greater part of both those regions ; the multifidus spinae, still more deeply placed, extends from the sacrum to the axis ; and the rotatores dorsi, the deepest of all, are confined to the thoracic region. The complexus muscle (semispinalis capitis) arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the upper six or seven dorsal and the last cervical vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the three and sometimes four succeeding cervical vertebrae, together with the