SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE LOWER LIMB. 694 don of that muscle ; it may be felt rolling beneath the finger as it crosses the outer side of the neck of the fibula, before entering the peroneus longus muscle. The glands in the popliteal space are not to be felt unless they are enlarged. THE LEG. Along the fore part of the leg, the anterior border of the tibia is to be followed downwards from the tubercle, constituting what is known as the shin. This border is sharp in the upper two-thirds of the leg, and de- scribes a slight curve with the concavity outwards ; in the lower third the border disappears, and the bone is concealed by the tendons of the anterior muscles. On the inner side of the shin, the broad internal surface of the tibia is subcutaneous below the sartorius, and leads down- wards to the prominent internal malleolus. At the back of the latter process a sharp edge is felt, which is formed by the inner margin of the groove for the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; the tendon itself covers the posterior surface of the malleolus. The head of the fibula is sub- cutaneous, as has been before mentioned ; the shaft is surrounded by muscles, but it can be felt through them in the lower half at least of the leg, and it will be remembered that it is placed considerably farther back in the leg than the shaft of the tibia ; near the ankle, a triangular portion of the bone comes to the surface, and is continued down to the external malleolus. Along the concavity of the anterior edge of the tibia, the prominence formed by the fleshy belly of the tibialis anticus is seen, and external to this is the much less distinct and narrower extensor longus digitorum. The tendons of the muscles appear in the lower third of the leg, and be- tween them also that of the extensor proprius hallucis ; they are brought into view most distinctly by flexing the ankle and extending the toes. From the head of the fibula downwards, the peroneus longus and brevis muscles form an elongated swelling, from which the tendons can be traced descending behind the external malleolus. Posteriorly, the elevation of the calf is formed by the gastrocnemius muscle, which terminates about the middle of the leg in the tendo Achillis ; the inner head of the gastro- cnemius is the larger, and descends lower than the outer. On each side of the gastrocnemius and tendo Achillis, a portion of the soleus comes to the surface ; and the characteristic form of the gastrocnemius, depending upon the peculiar structure of the muscle (p. 253), as well as the extent and shape of the projecting portions of the soleus, are brought into view by raising the body on the toes. The tendo Achillis gradually becomes narrower as it approaches the heel, but it widens again a little as it passes over the tuberosity of the os calcis to its insertion. Between it and the malleolus, on each side, is a well marked hollow, that on the outer side being the deeper ; in the inner of these, the tendons of the tibialis posti- cus and flexor longus digitorum, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve are superficial. Both the external and internal saphenous veins are visible beneath the skin of the leg, together with numerous tributaries and communicating branches. The internal is the larger, and, after crossing in front of the internal malleolus, runs upwards just behind the inner border of the tibia ; the external passes behind the outer malleolus and then ascends over the middle of the calf to the ham. Each vein is accompanied by the nerve of the same name.