BRANCHES OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. 407 where it anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries. The dorsal scapular artery gives off, as it passes through the triangular space, one or two slender ventral branches, which ramify in the sub- scapular fossa beneath the subscapularis muscle, and anastomose with twigs from the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries ; and a con- siderable descending branch which runs in the groove between the origins Fig. 247. — Anasto- moses OF THE AR- TERIES ON THE VEN- TRAL SURFACE OF THE SCAPULA, &C. (from R. Quain). -J- a, coracoid process ; b, tendon of the long head of the biceps; e, capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint ; d, tendon of the latissi- mus dorsi ; e, teres major; A, axillary, and A', brachial ar- tery ; 1, suprascapu- lar artery, giving off, as it passes over the ligament into the su- praspinous fossa, 1', its ventral branch, which descends through the notch and ramifies in the subscapular fossa ; 2, 2, posterior scapular artery ; 2', 2', its ventral branches ; 3, 3, stem of the sub- scapular artery at its origin from the axillary, continued into the dorsal scapular artery, which is turning to the back of the scapula, and gives off, 3', its ventral branch, pro- ceeding to anastomose with the ventral branches of the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries ; 4, thoracic branch of the subscapular artery ; 5, anterior circumflex artery; 6, posterior circumflex, in this case rising above the subscapular, and passing back through the quadrilateral intermuscular space. of the teres minor and major, supplying both muscles, to the lower angle of the scapula. Small offsets are also furnished to the long head of the triceps and the hinder part of the deltoid muscle. 6. The posterior circumflex artery, a considerable vessel but smaller than the subscapular, immediately below which it arises, is directed backwards in company with the circumflex nerve, passing through the quadrilateral space between the teres muscles, the humerus, and the long head of the triceps, and therefore separated by the last from the dorsal scapular artery. It winds round the humerus, and ter- minates by ramifying in the deltoid muscle, giving branches also to the shoulder-joint, to the long and outer heads of the triceps, and to the skin, and anastomosing with the anterior circumflex and acromio-thoracic arteries, as well as with the superior profunda branch of the brachial. 7. The anterior circumflex artery, much smaller than the posterior, arises nearly opposite that from the outer side of the axillary artery. It passes outwards, beneath the inner head of the biceps and the coraco- brachialis muscles, and resting on the fore part of the humerus, until it reaches the bicipital groove. There it divides into two branches, one of which ascends in the groove with the long head of the biceps to the