PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. 579 pneumo-gastric nerve is contained in the same sheath of dura mater and arachnoid as the spinal accessory nerve, and its filaments unite in a small ganglionic enlargement which is known as the ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric. After its passage through the foramen, it is joined by the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve, and a second ganglion is formed upon it, the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve. Several com- munications are at the same time established with surrounding nerves. The upper ganglion or ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric nerve (jugular ganglion), situated in the jugular foramen, is of a greyish colour, nearly spherical, and about two lines in diameter. It has fila- ments connecting it with other nerves, viz., with the facial, the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, the spinal accessory, and the sym- pathetic. The lower ganglion or ganglion of the trunk of the pneumo- gastric nerve (cervical ganglion, plexus ganglioformis), is placed below the base of the skull, about half an inch beyond the upper ganglion. It is of a flattened cylindrical form and reddish colour, and measures about nine lines in length and two in breadth. The accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve runs over the surface of the ganglion, and is in great measure continued directly into the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the vagus ; some of the accessory fibres, however, become incorporated with the main trunk, and enter the inferior laryngeal and cardiac branches. The lower ganglion communicates with the hypoglossal, the spinal, and the sympathetic nerves. The pneumo-gastric nerve descends in the neck between, and con- cealed by, the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, and afterwards similarly between the vein and the common carotid artery, being enclosed along with them in the sheath of the vessels. In their passage into and through the thorax, the nerves are disposed differently on the right and left sides. On the right side the nerve crosses over the first part of the right sub- clavian artery at the root of the neck, and its recurrent laryngeal branch turns backwards and upwards round that vessel. The nerve then enters the thorax behind the right innominate vein, and descends on the side of the trachea to the back of the root of the lung, where it spreads out in the posterior pulmonary plexus. It emerges from this plexus in the form of two cords, which are directed to the oesophagus, and by their union and subdivision on it form, with similar branches of the left side, the oesophageal plexus. Near the lower part of the thorax, the branches of the nerve, which have thus interchanged fibres with the nerve of the left side, are gathered again into a single trunk, which, descending through the diaphragm along the back of the oesophagus, is spread out on the posterior surface of the stomach. On the left side the pneumo-gastric nerve, entering the thorax between the left carotid and subclavian arteries and behind the left innominate vein, lies farther forwards than the right nerve, and crosses over the arch of the aorta, while its recurrent laryngeal branch turns up behind the arch. It then passes behind the root of the left lung, forming, like its fellow, a posterior pulmonary plexus, whence it descends along the oesophagus, and takes part in the formation of the oesophageal plexus. Interiorly, it forms a single trunk in front of the oesophagus, and is spread out on the anterior surface of the stomach. r p 2