424 ARTERIES OF THE UPTER LIMB. branches ; one or more, of considerable size, to the supinator and radial extensor muscles, and some beneath the latter to anastomose with the posterior interosseous recurrent. It also supplies the supinator brevis, and brachialis anticus in part. Fig. 257. —Deep anterior view of the ar- teries OF THE FOREARM AND HAND (from Tiedemarm). \ For the full description of this figure see p. 418. The following numbers refer to the radial artery and its branches: 5, upper part of the radial ai’tery and radial recurrent; 5', lower part of the radial artery, giving off the anterior carpal and superficial volar branches ; 5", the radial artery, emerging from betweon the heads of the abduc- tor indicis muscle and forming the deep palmar arch ; 9, placed between the princeps pollieis and radialis indicis branches of the radial artery. 2. The anterior radial carpal is a small branch which arises near the lower border of the pronator quad- ratic muscle, and runs inwards in front of the wrist to anastomose with a similar branch of the ulnar artery. The arch thus formed (anterior carpal arch) is joined above by communi- cating offsets from the anterior inter- osseous artery and below by the recur- rent branches of the deep palmar arch, thus giving rise to a network over the front of the wrist, from which twigs are supplied to the carpal bones and articulations. 3. The superficial volar artery, arising from the radial near the place where it leaves the front of the fore- arm, passes onwards into the hand. In size it is variable ; in most instances it is very small, and ends in the muscles of the thumb ; but in others it attains considerable size, and, crossing these muscles, terminates by inosculating with the radial extremity of the super- ficial palmar arch, which it thus com- pletes. At the wrist.—Below the styloid process of the radius, the radial artery turns backwards, passing beneath the tendons of the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb, and resting upon the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. It then runs downwards for a short distance over the scaphoid bone and trapezium, being crossed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and reaches the upper end of the space between the first and second meta-