84 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. projection of tlie malar bones is estimated, and several other measurements of the face skeleton, reference must be made to the special treatises. (On the foregoing subject consult, in addition to the works of Camper, Cuvier, Blumenbach, Lawrence, Carpenter, and those quoted above, the following: viz., Transl. of the Memoir of Retzius in the Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev. 1S60 ; Owen, in Trans. Zool. Soc., vol. iv., 1851 ; Busk’s papers in Trans. Ethnol. Soc. Lond. vol. i., 1861, and Journ. of Anthrop. Inst., vol. iii. ; Huxley’s Lect. “ Man’s Place in Nature,” and in Joum. of Anat. and Physiol., vols. i. and ii. ; Thumam and Barnard Davis, “ Crania Britannica,” and B. Davis, “ Thesaurus Craniorum,” 1867 ; Cleland in Philos. Trans., 1869 ; Virchow, “Development of the Cranial Basis,” 1857, and in Germ. Quart. Mag. Nov. 1871 ; Huschke, Scliadel, Him, und Seele, &c., 1854; Lucae, Zur Morphol. der Rassenschadel, 1861-64; de Quatre- fages and Hamy, “ Crania Ethnica,” 1873-81). IV. Irregularities of Form.—The most frequent irregularity in the form of the skull is want of symmetry. This sometimes occurs in a marked degree, and there is probably no skull perfectly symmetrical. The condition which has been observed to co-exist most frequently with irregular forms of skull is synos- tosis, or premature obliteration of certain of the sutures. The cranial bones increase in size principally at their margins ; and when a suture is prematurely obliterated the growth of the skull in the direction at right angles to the line of suture may be supposed to be checked, and increased growth in other directions may take place to supply the defect. Thus the condition known as scaphocephaly is found associated with absence of the sagittal suture, where, the transverse growth being prevented, a great increase takes place in the vertical, and especially the longitudinal directions, giving the vault of the skull a boat-like form. The oblique deformity or plagioceplialy also is met with in connection with premature fusion of one half of the coronal or lambdoid suture, but independently of this a precisely similar deformity may be induced by rickets, wry-neck, or external pressure. (See Huxley, loc. c\t.; Virchow, “ Gesammelte Abhandlungen,” 1856 ; J. Barnard Davis, “ On Synostotic Crania,” 1865 ; W. Turner in Nat. Hist. Rev., 1864.) Another series of irregular forms of skull is that produced by pressure artificially applied in early life, and is best exemplified from among those American tribes who compress the heads of their children by means of an apparatus of boards and bandages : it is also illustrated in a slighter degree by individual instances in which undue pressure has been employed unintentionally. (Gosse, “ Essai sur les Deformations artificielles du Crane,” 1855.) Posthumous distortions likewise occur in long-buried skulls, subjected to the combined influence of pressure and moisture. (Wilson, “ Prehistoric Annals of Scotland.”) IV.—BONES OF THE UPPER, LIMB. The upper limb consists of the shoulder, the arm, brachium, the fore- arm, antibrachium, and the hand, manus. The bones of the shoulder are the clavicle and scapula, which together form the pectoral arch or shoulder girdle ; in the arm is the humerus ; in the forearm are the radius and ulna; and in the hand three groups of bones, viz., the carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. THE CLAVICLE. The clavicle or collar-bone extends outwards and backwards, from the summit of the sternum to the acromion process of the scapula, and con- nects the upper limb with the trunk. It is curved like an italic f: the internal curve has its convexity directed forwards, and extends over two- thirds of the length of the bone; the outer curve is concave forwards, corresponding to the hollow between the chest and shoulder. The clavicle is broad towards its scapular end, being compressed from