EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITORUM. 251 lower portion of the annular ligament and along the dorsum of the foot, to be inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx of the great toe. An expansion given oft from the tendon on each side spreads over the joint between the metatarsal bone and the first phalanx. Fig. 1S3 Muscles of the leg and Fotfr from before. (A. T.) J 1, tendon, of the rectus femoris ; 1', ligamentum patella?; 2, vastus internus; 3, vastus externus; 4, sartorius ; 5, ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata; 6, inner bead of the gastrocnemius ; 7, inner part of the soleus ; 8, tibialis aDticus ; 8', its tendon near its insertion ; 9, extensor proprius hallucis ; 9', its tendon ; 10, extensor longus digitorum ; 10', lower band of the anterior annular ligament; 11, peroneus longus ; 12, peroneus brevis ; 13, peroneus tertius ; 13', its tendon at its insertion; 14, origin of the extensor brevis digitorum, the first head of which is seen passing to the great toe near the line from 9'. Relations.—This muscle is partly concealed by those between which it is placed. It lies external to the anterior tibial artery at its origin, but crosses in front of that vessel in the lower third of the leg', and is internal to it on the foot. Varieties.—The extensor ossis metatarsi hallucis is a small muscle, sometimes found as a slip from the extensor proprius, or from the tibialis anticus, or from the extensor communis digitorum ; or it may be a distinct muscle arising close to the ex- tensor proprius, and traversing the same compart- ment of the annular ligament with that muscle. The extensor primi internodii hallucis, another occasional muscle, is nearly always an offshoot from the extensor proprius, though it has been found separate. It was seen by Wood in one half of the subjects examined by him. Fig. 183. ; I I 'mi i'ii'lf// 12- 13- 14 13- The extensor longus digitorum pedis arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia ; from the head and the anterior sur- face of the fibula for about three-fourths of its length, in front of the extensor hallucis; from a small part of the interosseous mem- brane at its upper part ; also from the apo- neurotic septa intervening between it and the muscles on each side, and from the fascia of the leg. The muscle ends in four tendons, which descend through the lower part of the annular ligament, in the same sheath as the peroneus tertius, and on the dorsum of the foot pass respectively to the four outer toes. The three inner tendons are each joined at the outer side, on the first phalanx, by a tendon from the extensor brevis digitorum. All the four tendons are continued into expansions, which are joined on the first phalanx by tendinous processes from the lumbricales and interosseous muscles ; they divide into three parts, their middle fibres being inserted