SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE CHEST. 675 in other cases the lung docs not project at all above the bone. A resonant percussion-note may, however, be obtained in the living sub- ject as far as three-quarters of an inch above the level of the apex, owing to the obliquity of the surface of the neck. The distance of the apex from the clavicle is actually diminished during inspiration, since that bone is then moved upwards with the anterior end of the first rib. There does not appear to be any constant difference in the extent upwards of the lung on the two sides (Pansch). From the apex, the anterior border of each lung inclines inwards behind the sterno-clavicular articulation and the manubrium, to the junction of the latter with the body of the sternum, where the two almost meet in the middle line ; they then descend together, the right sometimes projecting a little to the left of the mid-line, as far as the fourth costal cartilage ; from this point the margin of the right lung continues a nearly straight course to the level of the sixth chondro-sternal articulation (sometimes even to the lower end of the body of the sternum), while that of the left slopes out- wards behind the fifth costal cartilage, in a direction which may be indicated with sufficient accuracy by a line drawn from the fourth chondro-sternal articulation of the left side to the spot on the chest-wall corresponding to the apex of the heart (see below). The lower limit of the lung may be marked by a line; slightly convex downwards, carried round the side of the chest from the sixth chondro- sternal articulation to the tenth dorsal spine. In the mammary line, the lung extends downwards to the sixth rib; opposite the posterior fold cf the axilla, to the eighth rib ; and in the scapular line (carried ver- tically downwards from the lower angle of the scapula, while the arms are against the sides), to the tenth rib. This margin of the lung descends considerably in inspiration, and rises in expiration. The position of the great fissure in each lung may be ascertained approxi- mately by drawing a line from the second dorsal spine to the sixth rib in the nipple-line; and the smaller fissure of the right lung extends from the middle of the foregoing to the junction of the fourth costal •cartilage with the sternum. The pleura reaches considerably farther downwards than the lung. Posteriorly, its lower margin corresponds most frequently to the head of the twelfth rib, or the eleventh dorsal spine ; it is seldom higher than this, but often lower, in many cases extending as much as an inch beyond the spot mentioned. Being directed at first horizontally outwards, its line then ascends gradually over the side of the chest, and passes behind the seventh costal cartilage to the sternum, on the left side extending •considerably farther over the pericardium than the corresponding lung. At the side of the chest, the line of reflection of the pleura is generally from two to three inches above the lower margin of the thorax : towards the front, it is usually a little lower on the left side than the right. The upper limit of the heart is represented by a horizontal line at the level of the second costal cartilages ; the lower limit by a line drawn somewhat obliquely, and with a slight downward convexity, from the junction of the seventh costal cartilage of the right side with the sternum to the apex, the latter point being in the fifth intercostal space, about three and a half inches to the left of the middle line, and generally about an inch and a half below, and three-quarters of an inch to the sternal side of, the nipple. The right border of the heart is indicated by a line carried from the second to the seventh chondro-sternal articulation, and arching out- x x 2