DORSAL NERVES. 617 the muscles, the nerve lies at the back of the wrist beneath the tendons of the extensor indicis and the common extensor of the fingers, and forms here a small gangliform enlargement, from which filaments are given to the adjoining ligaments and articulations. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches.—Before the nerve passes to the back of the forearm it gives offsets to the extensor carpi radialis brevior and the supinator brevis muscles. After perforating the supinator brevis, it supplies branches to the extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, the three extensors of the thumb, and the extensor indicis. (b) Articular branches.—From the terminal enlargement of the nerve fine twigs proceed to the articulations of the wrist, and, according to Biidinger and Rauber, other filaments descend on the back of the hand to the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. Varieties.—The dorsal branch of the radial nerve sometimes supplies the whole of the back of the hand and fingers. In two cases, recorded by Turner and Schwalbe, the posterior interosseous nerve passed down to supply the adja- cent sides of the index and middle fingers. Summary.—The musculo-spiral nerve distributes its branches to the extensor muscles of the elbow-joint and sometimes sends a filament to the brachialis anticus, which, however, receives its principal supply from another source. Before separating into its two large divisions, the nerve gives branches to two muscles of the forearm, viz., 'the long supinator, and the long radial extensor of the carpus. The posterior interosseous division distributes nerves to the remaining muscles on the outer and back part of the forearm, except the anconeus (previously supplied), viz., to the short supinator and the extensors. Cutaneous nerves are distributed, from the trunk of the nerve and its radial division, to the upper arm, to the forearm, and to the hand—on the posterior and outer aspect of each. DORSAL NERVES. The anterior divisions of the twelve dorsal nerves are distributed almost entirely to the walls of the thorax and abdomen. The exceptions are the first, the greater part of which joins the brachial plexus, and the second and twelfth, which send cutaneous offsets to the arm and hip respectively. Close to the intervertebral foramina, these nerves are connected to the gangliated cord of the sympathetic by very short com- municating branches ; they are then directed transversely outwards to their destination without forming any plexus, and in this respect they differ from the anterior primary divisions of the other spinal nerves. The smaller part of the first, and the trunks of the succeeding ten nerves pass forwards in the intercostal spaces, and are thence termed intercostal nerves. Of these, the upper six are confined to the parietes of the thorax, while the lower five are continued anteriorly from the intercostal spaces into the wall of the abdomen. The twelfth nerve is placed below the hist rib, and is therefore contained altogether in the abdominal wall. FIRST DORSAL NERVE. The anterior division of the first dorsal nerve divides into two parts, the larger of which ascends over the neck of the first rib to enter into the brachial plexus. The remaining portion of the nerve is continued as