Fig. 78.—Ossification of the clavicle Fig. 78. 99 OSSIFICATION OF SHOULDER BONES. Fig. 79. somewhat flattened and expanded free extremities, which are rough and raised round the margins and upon the palmar aspect in the ungual process. Sesamoid bones.—A pair of sesamoid bones is placed in the palmar wall of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb ; and similar nodules, single or double, are sometimes found in the corresponding joint of one or more of the other fingers, most frequently of the index and little fingers. OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. With the exception of the clavicle, all the bones of the upper limb begin to ossify in cartilage. The clavicle begins to ossify before any other bone in the body. Its ossifica- tion commences before the deposition of cartilage in connection with it, but after- wards progresses in cartilage as well as in fibrous substance. It is formed from (R. Quain). a, the clavicle of a fcetus at birth, osseous in the shaft, 1, and cartilaginous at both ends. b, clavicle of a man of about twenty-three years of age ; the shaft, 1, fully ossified to the acromial end ; the sternal epiphysis, 2, is represented rather thicker than natural. one principal centre, appearing about the Gth week, to which is added an epiphysis at the sternal end. The epiphysis appears from the 18th to the 20th year and is united to the shaft about the 25th year. The scapula is ossified from two primary centres, one for the body, the scapula D 22 years. Fig. 79.—Ossification of the scapula (R. Quain). 1, scapula proper, including the body and spine; 2, coracoid ossification ; 3, 5, nuclei of acromion ; 4, epiphysis at the lower angle ; 6, epiphysis on vertebral border. In A, ossification has commenced in the coracoid process. In B the coracoid process (represented as too little ossified in the figure) is now partially united at its base, and centres have appeared in the acromion and at the lower angle. In C, a second point has appeared in the acromion, and a long epiphysis on the vertebral border. In D, the acromion and the epiphysis of the vertebral border are still separate. H 2