CRANIAL NERVES. 550 II.—OPTIC NERVE. The second pair or optic nerves of the two sides meet each other at the optic commissure where they partially decussate. From this point they may he traced backwards round the crura cerebri, under the name of the optic tracts. The optic tract arises from the posterior part of the optic thalamus, the corpora geniculata, and the superior corpus quadrigeminum. As it leaves the under part of the thalamus it makes a sudden bend forwards, and then runs, in the form of a flattened band, obliquely inwards across the upper part of the anterior surface of the cerebral peduncle, to which it is closely attached; after this, becoming more nearly cylindrical, it adheres to the tuber cineremn, from which, and from the lamina cinerea, it is said to receive an accession of fibres, and thus reaches the optic commissure. The optic commissure or chiasmci is of an oblong form, the longer dia- meter (nearly half an inch) being directed transversely. It rests upon the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, and the internal carotid artery, ascending to the brain, is close to it on each side. The greater number of the fibres of the two nerves decussate in the commissure, but some are continued from the tract to the nerve of the same side (see Vol. II., p. 363). The optic nerve proper runs from the commissure forwards and out- wards through the optic foramen, having the ophthalmic artery to its lower and outer side. As it enters the foramen it receives a strong- sheath from the dura mater, and a slender one from the arachnoid, both of which are prolonged as far as the eyeball. Appearing in the orbit between the origins of the recti muscles, it continues its oblique course, inclining at the same time somewhat downwards, to the eyeball, which it enters on its posterior aspect about one-tenth of an inch internal to its centre. Here the nerve perforates the sclerotic and choroid coats, and terminates by expanding in the retina (see the anatomy of the eye in Yol. II.). The intraorbital part of the nerve is about an inch in length; it is surrounded by the ciliary vessels and nerves, and is pierced from a quarter to half an inch behind its termination by the central artery of the retina, which, with a companion vein, runs in the axis of the nerve to the eyeball. Varieties.—In a few rare instances absence of the optic commissure lias been met with, each optic tract being- continued directly into the optic nerve, and passing to the eyeball, of the same side (see Henle, “ Nervenlelire,” 2nd ed., 303). III.—OCULOMOTOR NERVE. The third nerve, the common motor nerve of the eyeball (motor oculi), gives branches to all the muscles of the orbit, with the exception of the superior oblique and external rectus. It also supplies, through its con- nection with the lenticular ganglion, the sphincter muscle of the iris and the ciliary muscle of the eyeball. The nerve makes its appearance in the interpeduncular space at the base of the brain, where its fibres emerge in a number of bundles from the inner side of the crus cerebri, commencing close to the upper border of the pons, and extending upwards and outwards along the line of the oculomotor groove (Yol. II., p. 315). One of these bundles is frequently