490 SUPERIOR VENA CAVA. The anterior cardiac veins are two or three small vessels running upwards on the front of the right ventricle, and one of larger size ascending along the right border of the heart, all of which open into the auricle immediately above the auriculo-ventricular groove. These veins have no valves. The smallest cardiac veins (venae cordis minimae), very variable in number, are contained in the substance of the heart, and open into the right auricle, especially upon and in the neighbourhood, of the inter- auricular septum, giving rise to some of the foramina Thebesii. Similar minute veins open into the left auricle, and according to L. Langer also into both ventricular cavities. The coronary sinus, together with the small oblique vein, considered with reference to their early foetal condition and certain abnormal conditions to which they are subject along1 with other neighbouring veins, may be looked upon rather as the persistent terminal parts of a typically distinct left superior vena cava (duct of Cuvier), than as simply the main stem of the cardiac veins. The explanation of this will be found in the description of the development of these veins. SUPERIOR VERA CAVA. The superior or descending vena cava conveys to the heart the blood which is returned from the head and neck, the upper limbs, and the walls of the thorax. It is formed by the union of the right and left innominate veins, behind the junction of the first costal cartilage of the right side with the sternum, and descends nearly vertically to the base of the heart, where it opens into the right auricle, opposite the upper border of the third costal cartilage. It is about three inches long, and in its course it describes a slight curve, the convexity of which is directed to the right side. It has no valves. At its commencement, the superior vena cava is placed on the right side of the innominate artery, and is covered in front and externally by the pleura. The right phrenic nerve also lies along its outer side. About an inch and a half above its termination, it perforates the fibrous layer of the pericardium, the serous membrane being reflected over it and surrounding it except aloDg its posterior surface. The lower part of the vein lies in front of the right division of the pulmonary artery and the upper right pulmonary vein, and the ascending part of the arch of the aorta is to its inner side. The superior vena cava receives small pericardial and mediastinal veins, and immediately above the place where it perforates the pericardium it is joined by the large azygos vein. INNOMINATE VEINS. The innominate or brachio-cephalic veins, commencing on each side by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins behind the inner end of the clavicle, transmit the blood returning from the head and neck, the upper limbs, and a part of the thoracic wall. They end below by uniting to form the superior vena cava, beneath the junction of the first costal cartilage of the right side with the sternum. The right vein is about an inch in length, and descends nearly vertically by the side of the commencement of the subclavian and the upper end of the innominate artery ; externally it is covered by the right pleura and lung, the phrenic nerve being interposed. The vein of the left side, nearly three times as