149 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. Fig. 125. A PORTION OP THE SKULL Fig. 125. upon an axis directed transversely through the costo-central articulations, and of rotation upwards and downwards about an axis passing between their costal and sternal ends, constituting what may be distinguished as the eversion and inversion of the ribs. The movement of the tubercles of the ribs upon the transverse processes is of a gliding nature, and as the planes of the costo-transverse articulations of the lower ribs are directed obliquely, these ribs move backwards as well as up- wards in inspiration, and downwards and forwards in expiration. The backward and forward movement is much freer in the case of the last two ribs owing to the absence of the costo-transverse articulation, while the up and down move- ment is more limited. The first rib can be elevated to a considerable extent, but only very slightly everted, in consequence of the shortness of its cartilage, and the absence of a synovial articulation at the junction with the sternum. When the vertebral column is bent forwards, the ribs are depressed ; and when the column is rotated, the ribs of that side towards which the upper part of the trunk is turned are raised, and those of the other side correspondingly depressed. The combined movements of the thoracic walls in respiration will be described with the actions of the intercostal muscles. It is sufficient at present to state that the elevation and eversion of the ribs are the main causes of the antero-posterior and transverse enlargement of the chest in inspiration. TEMPORO-MAXILLAKY ARTICULATION. The lower jaw articulates by its condyle on each side with the smooth surface of the temporal bone, extending over the part of the glenoid WITH THE LOWER JAW AND HYOID BONE, SEEN PROM THE OUTER SIDE. (A. T., after Arnold.) ^ 1, external lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation ; 2, a part of the capsule of the joint; 3, styloid process; 4, stylo-maxillary ligament ; 5, stylo-hyoid ligament ; 6, lesser cornu of the hyoid bone with some short ligamentous fibres attach- ing it to, 7, the body, and 8, the great cornu. fossa in front of the Glaserian fissure and the articular emi- nence formed by the anterior root of the zygoma. The joint is divided by an interarticular fibro-cartilage into an upper and a lower synovial cavity. The external lateral ligament is a short fasciculus of fibres, attached above to the lower border and the tubercle of the zygoma; and below to the external surface and posterior border of the neck of the lower jaw, its fibres being directed downwards and backwards. Scattered ligamentous fibres cover the synovial membrane in fi-ont, on the inside, and behind, forming a thin and loose capsule round the joint. The internal lateral ligament is a flat, thin band, placed at some distance from the joint. It extends from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone downwards and a little forwards, to be attached to the inner border of the inferior dental foramen. Between it and the lower jaw are [ 1 iced the external pterygoid muscle, the internal maxillary vessels, the auriculo-temporal and the inferior dental nerves. It has