530 LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 305. Fig. 305.—The superficial lymphatio VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE LOWER LIMB, FROM THE FRONT AND INNER SIDE (founded on Mascagni and others). (A.T.) £ 1, 1, upper inguinal glands receiving the lower abdominal, the inguinal, penile, and scrotal lymphatic vessels ; 2, 2, femoral or lower inguinal glands, receiving the anterior, internal, and external femoral lymphatic vessels ; 2', the internal lymphatic vessels ; 3, 3, large plexus of lymphatic vessels in the course of the internal saphenous vein ; 4, the same in the leg ; 5, posterior lymphatics of the calf of the leg ; 6, lymphatic vessels of the dorsum of the foot ; 7, those of the heel and inner ankle. The deep-seated inguinal glands, less numerous than the superficial, surround the femoral artery and vein, and one is con- stantly placed in the crural ring. They receive the deep lymphatics of the limb and some of the efferent vessels of the superficial inguinal glands. The efferent vessels of the deep glands proceed upwards with the blood-vessels, the greater number passing through the crural ring, and terminate in the external iliac lym- phatic glands. The superficial lymphatics of the lower limb arise in two sets, one from the inner part of the dor- sum and sole of the foot, the other trom the outer. The inner vessels, the more numerous, follow a similar course to that of the internal saphe- nous vein : passing partly in front of and partly behind the inner ankle, they ascend along the inner side of the knee and front of the thigh, and terminate in the superficial inguinal glands. The outer vessels, ascend- ing from the outer side of the foot, pass in great part obliquely across the popliteal space to join the inner set above the knee; in part they reach the inner set by crossing in front of the tibia; and a small number of them, accompanying the external saphenous vein, dip down between the heads of the gastro- cnemius muscle, and end in the popli- teal glands. From the middle line