505 SINUSES OF TIIE CRANIUM. vessels (anterior and posterior intercavernous sinuses) which connect to- gether the right and left cavernous sinuses. Either of these transverse branches may however be wanting, but the anterior, which is usually the larger, is the more constant. On the other hand, there is sometimes an additional vessel passing across below the pituitary body. The superior petrosal sinus is a narrow canal running in the groove along the upper margin of the petrous part of the temporal bone. Commencing at the back part of the cavernous sinus, it is directed out- wards and backwards in the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli, and ends in the lateral sinus as this turns downwards in the groove on the mastoid part of the temporal bone. It is joined by some inferior cerebral and superior cerebellar veins, as well as by small branches from the tympanum, which issue by the petro-squamous fissure (p. 41). The inferior petrosal sinus, much shorter and wider than the superior, passes from the cavernous sinus downwards and outwards in the groove along the lower margin of the petrous bone, between this and the basilar process of the occipital bone. It passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen and opens immediately into the upper end of the internal jugular vein. The inferior petrosal sinus receives some inferior cerebellar veins, and the auditory veins from the internal ear. The transverse or basilar sinus (basilar plexus—Virchow) is a venous network excavated in the dura mater over the basilar process of the occipital bone, opening into the inferior petrosal sinus on each side, and into the anterior spinal veins below. Varieties of the sinuses.—The disposition of the sinuses around the torcular Ilerophili is subject to considerable variation. It occasionally happens that the lower part of the superior longitudinal sinus is placed in the middle line, and then the straight sinus opens into the front, while the lateral sinuses spring from the sides, of the torcular, so that a true confluence of the sinuses is formed. In other instances the connecting branch between the torcular and the straight sinus is of large size, and conveys blood from the superior longitudinal sinus, which then empties itself equally into both lateral sinuses. In either of the fore- going arrangements, the right and left lateral sinuses are of equal size, a condition, however, which is of comparatively unfrequent occurrence (Riidinger, “ Beitrage zur Anatomie” &c., Munchen, 1876). A great diminution, or even absence, of one lateral stilus has been met with, the vessel of the opposite side being much enlarged. The occipital sinus is sometimes wanting ; or it may be of large size and form a groove on the occipital bone, by the side of the foramen magnum, as it passes forwards to the jugular foramen (fig. 292). An additional petro-squamous sinus is sometimes present, lying in a small groove along the junction of the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone, and opening behind into the lateral sinus. In rare cases the petro-squamous sinus is found passing through an aperture (.foramen jugular e spurium) in the squamous part of the temporal bone, between the orifice of the external auditory meatus and the glenoid cavity, and then joining the temporal vein, thus re- sembling the arrangement in the dog and many other animals, in which a similar vessel forms the principal outlet for the intracranial blood. In the human subject also, at an early period of foetal life, the lateral sinus is continued forwards in this course, and opens into the primitive (afterwards the external) jugular vein, and the occurrence of a petro-squamous sinus is due to the per- sistence of this channel, which usually becomes obliterated after the development of the internal jugular vein. (On the varieties of the sinuses, see J. F. Knott, Journ. Anat., xvi., 27.)