Fig. 75. 95 THE CARPUS. Fig. 75.—Semi-diagrammatic view op anterior annular ligament is stretched across between these prominences, so as to form a canal for the transmission of the flexor tendons. The superior surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and pyramidal bones form, when in apposition, a continuous convexity which corre- sponds with the concavity presented by the radius and the triangular fibro-cartilage, while the pisiform bone is attached in front of the pyramidal, with which alone it articulates. The line of articulation THE RIGHT CARPUS AND PART OP THE METACARPAL BONES, PROM BEFORE, THE CARPAL BONES BEING SLIGHTLY SEPARATED TO SHOW TIIE MODE OP THEIR CONNECTION WITH EACH OTHER. (A.T. ) § 1, scaphoid bone ; 2, semilunar ; 3, pyramidal ; 4, pisiform ; 5, trapezium, the figure is placed upon the ridge, to the inside of which is the groove for the tendon of flexor carpi radialis ; 6, trapezoid ; 7, os magnum ; 8, unciform, the figure is placed on the unciform process. The articulation of the os magnum with the fourth metacarpal bone is represented somewhat too large. between the superior and inferior rows is concavo-convex from side to side, the trapezium, trapezoid and os magnum bounding a cavity which lodges the external part of the scaphoid, and the os magnum and unci- form rising up in a convexity, which is received into a hollow formed by the scaphoid, semilunar, and pyramidal, bones. The scaphoid bone, the largest and most external of the first row, lies with its long axis directed outwards and downwards. It has a concave surface, which looks downwards and inwards, and articulates with the os magnum ; on the opposite side are two convex articular surfaces, an upper for the radius, and a lower for the trapezium and trapezoid bones of the second row ; these approach so near to one another behind, that the dorsal surface is reduced to a narrow grooved transverse strip, to which the posterior ligaments of the wrist are attached. At the inner extremity is a small crescentic surface for articulation with the semi- lunar bone ; while the outer end is produced into a stout conical tubercle, which projects forwards and gives attachment to the annular ligament. The scaphoid articulates with five bones, viz., the radius, the semilunar, trapezium, trapezoid, and os magnum. The semilunar bone, irregularly cubic, is characterized by the deep con- cavity from before backwards of its inferior surface, which rests on the head of the os magnum, and commonly also by a bevelled edge slightly on the unciform bone. Its external surface is crescentic and vertical, and articulates with the scaphoid hone ; its internal surface looks down- wards and inwards, is much deeper and narrower than the external, and articulates with the pyramidal. The convex superior surface, which articulates with the radius, extends like that of the scaphoid, farther backwards than forwards, and lienee the anterior free surface is deeper than tha posterior. The semilunar articulates with five bones, viz., the radius, scaphoid, pyramidal, os magnum, and unciform. The pyramidal or cuneiform bone is situated with its blunted apex directed downwards and inwards ; the base lias the shape of a half-oval.