199 PECTORALIS MINOR. scalene muscles ; 5, anterior part of trapezius ; 6, deltoid ; 7, upper part of triceps in the left arm ; 8, teres minor ; 9, teres major ; 10, latissimus dorsi; 11, pectoralis major; 11', on the right side, its clavicular portion ; 12, part of pectoralis minor ; 13, serratus magnus ; 14, external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; 15, placed on the ensiform process at the upper end of the linea alba; 15', umbilicus ; 16, is placed over the symphysis pubis; at the lower end of the linea alba, above 16, the pyramidal muscles are seen through the abdominal aponeurosis ; 14 to 17, linea semilunaris at the outer border of the rectus muscle, the transverse tendinous lines of which are seen through the abdominal aponeurosis ; 18, part of the gluteus medius ; 19, tensor vaginas femoris ; 20, rectus femoris; 21, sartorius ; 22, femoral part of the ilio-psoas; 23, pectineus ; 24, adductor longus ; 25, gracilis. On each side of 16, the external abdominal ring is indicated. Fig. 159.—View of some of THE DEEPER MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER AND TRUNK, FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) | On the right side the pector- alis major and external oblique muscles have been removed, a, coracoid process ; 6, manubrium ; c, c, cartilages of the fifth ribs ; cl, ensiform process; 1, levator anguji scapulae muscle ; 2, on the middle of the clavicle, points to the subclavius muscle ; 3, pec- toralis minor ; 4, subscapularis ; 4', its insertion into the small tuberosity of the humerus ; 5, coraco-brachialis cut short; 6, coracoid, and 6', glenoid head of the biceps brachii, both cut short; 7, on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, points by a line to the tendon of the teres major, both cut short and passing to their in- sertion inside the bicipital groove ; 8, folded tendon of the pectoralis major ; 9, insertion of the del- toid; 10, brachialis anticus, em- bracing the insertion of the del- toid; 11, part of the inner head of the triceps, the middle head of which is seen passing behind the Fig. 159. tendons of the latissimus and teres ; 12, 12, on the fifth and eighth ribs, point to the origin of the serratus magnus ; 13, 13', recti abdominis. border and upper surface of the coracoid process, in contact with the conjoined origin of the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles. Relations.—This muscle is covered by the pectoralis major, and forms a part of the anterior wall of the axilla. It crosses the axillary artery and brachial plexus of nerves. When the arm is much raised a portion of the muscle may be seen projecting beyond the lower margin of the pectoralis major. Varieties.—The pectoralis minor is sometimes found split up or subdivided into as many pieces as it has costal attachments. The place and number of the costal slips are subject to slight variation. The tendon of insertion is not unfrequently detached in part or wholly from the coracoid process, and continued over that to the capsule of the shoulder and the great tuberosity of the humerus. The subclavius muscle arises by a short thick tendon from the first costal arch at the junction of the rib and cartilage, close to the costo-