BOXES OF THE HEAD. 48 incisor or myrtiform fossa; while between it and the malar process is the deepei canine fossa. Above the canine fossa, and close below the margin ot the orbit, is the infraorbital foramen, by which the infraorbital nerve and artery issue. The inner margin of this surface is deeply excavated by the nasal notch, the sharp edge of which is produced below into the anterior nasal spine. The zygomatic surface looks into the zygomatic and spkeno-maxillary fossae; it is convex and presents about the centre one, two or more apertures of the posterior dental canals, transmitting the vessels and nen es ot that name; the lower and posterior part of this surface is prominent and rough, and is distinguished as the tuberosity. The nasal surface presents at the fore part a nearly horizontal ridge, the inferior turbinate crest, for articulation with the inferior turbinate bone; above the crest, and extending on to the base of the nasal process, Fig. 39.—Superior maxillary bone of the right side. (A. T.) r A, from the outside ; B, from the inside. 1 to 2, alveolar process—1 at the middle in- cisor tooth, 2 marks the tuberosity, and above it, in A, the posterior dental foramina; 3, nasal process; 4, malar process ; 5, orbital plate, below 5 is the infraorbital groove leading to the canal; 6, placed in front of the nasal notch marks the incisor crest terminating in the ante- rior nasal spine ; 7, incisor fossa ; 8, is in front of the canine fossa ; 9, infraorbital foramen ; 10, lachrymal groove; 11, antrum ; 12, inferior turbinate crest; 13, nasal crest; from 13 to 14, the incisor foramen ; 15, placed on the surface of articulation of the body with the palate bone, points to the groove of the palato-maxillary canal. These figures also exhibit a full set of the upper teeth of one side as they occur in middle life. is a smooth concave surface belonging to the middle meatus of the nose, and below the crest a much larger surface for the inferior meatus. Behind the nasal process is seen the lachrymal groove, nearly vertical, but inclined slightly backwards and outwards, about half an inch in length, and leading into the inferior meatus; the margins overhang the groove in front and behind, and the small interval left is closed by the lachrymal and inferior turbinate bones, thus completing the canal of the nasal duct. Behind the lachrymal groove is the large opening into the antrum; behind this the surface is rough for articulation with the palate bone, and traversing the lower part of this roughness is a smooth groove, passing downwards and forwards from the posterior margin, and completing with the palate bone the posterior palatine or palato-maxillary canal. The orbital surface is triangular, flat, and smooth ; anteriorly it reaches the margin of the orbit for a short distance at the root of the nasal pro- cess ; externally it is bounded by the rough surface for the malar bone.