586 CRANIAL NERVES. the nerves of the right ancl left sides, while they lie in contact with the oesophagus. Gastric branches.—The branches distributed to the stomach (gastric nerves) are the terminal branches of both pneumo-gastric nerves. The nerve of the left side, on arriving in front of the oesophagus, opposite the cardiac orifice of the stomach, divides into many branches : the largest of these extend over the fore part of the stomach ; others lie along its small curvature, and unite with branches of the right nerve and the sympathetic ; and some filaments are continued between the layers of the small omentum to the hepatic plexus. The right pneumo- gastric nerve descends on the back of the gullet to the stomach, and dis- tributes branches to the posterior surface of the organ : a large portion of this nerve passes to the coeliac, splenic and left renal plexuses of the sympathetic. Summary.—The pneumo-gastric nerves supply branches directly to the upper part of the alimentary canal, viz., the pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach with the liver and spleen ; and to the respiratory passages, namely, the larynx, trachea, and its divisions in the lungs. They also furnish small offsets to the dura mater and external ear. These nerves give branches likewise to the heart and great vessels by means of their communications with the cardiac plexus, and to the remaining abdominal viscera through their connection with the solar plexus. Each pneumo- gastric nerve is connected with the following cranial nerves—the spinal accessory, glosso-pharyngeal, facial, and hypoglossal; also with some spinal nerves ; and with the sympathetic in the neck, thorax and abdomen. XI.—SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. The eleventh or spinal accessory nerve (spinal nerve accessory to the vagus, third trunk of the eighth pair of Willis) consists of two parts, the one of which (accessory) joins the trunk of the pneumo-gastric, while the other (spinal) is distributed to the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. It arises by a series of filaments from the side of the medulla oblongata below the pneumo-gastric nerve, and from the lateral column of the spinal cord as low down as the sixth or seventh cervical nerve. The filaments arising from the medulla oblongata form the small accessory portion of the nerve. The lowest spinal filaments are attached to the middle of the lateral column ; the highest ones arise close to the posterior nerve-roots, with the upper one or two of which they are frequently connected. The accessory portion is directed outwards with the pneumo-gastric nerve : the spinal part ascends between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the cervical nerves, passes into the skull through the foramen magnum, and immediately bends outwards to enter the middle compartment of the jugular foramen, where the nerve is contained in the same sheath of dura mater as the vagus. In the foramen, the two parts of the nerve interchange fibres, and they are sometimes intimately united so as to form a single trunk for a short distance. The accessory part is also connected by one or two filaments with the ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric. Below the skull, the internal, accessory or vagal portion passes over the surface of the lower ganglion of the vagus, and sends its fibres into the