FACIAL NERVE. 573 which may sometimes be followed from its branches to the skin are pro- bably composed of fibres derived from these nerves. The digastric branch arises close below the preceding nerve, and divides into two or three filaments which enter the posterior belly of the digastric muscle ; one of these sometimes passes through or above the digastric, and joins the glosso-pharyngeal nerve near the base of the skull. The stylo-hyoid branch, long and slender, arises in common with the digastric branch, and inclines forwards to enter the stylo-hyoid muscle on its posterior aspect. Temporo-facial division.—The temporo-facial, the larger of the two primary divisions of the facial nerve, is directed forwards through the upper part of the parotid gland, crossing over the external carotid artery and the temporo-maxillary vein. It receives one or two consider- able offsets from the auriculo-temporal nerve (p. 5C6), and speedily divides into a number of branches which form, by their communications with one another and with branches of the fifth nerve, a network over the side of the face, extending as high as the temple and as low as the mouth. Its ramifications are arranged in temporal, malar, and infraorbital sets. The temporal branches ascend over the zygoma and supply the attrahens and attollens auriculam muscles, the frontalis, the upper part of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and the corrugator supercilii. One or two filaments pass on to the auricle, and are distributed to the small muscles on its outer surface. These branches form communications with the auriculo-temporal nerve, the temporal branch of the superior maxil- lary, and the supraorbital and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The malar branches cross the malar bone to reach the outer side of the orbit and supply the orbicular muscle. Some filaments are dis- tributed to both the upper and lower eyelids : those in the upper lid join filaments from the lachrymal and supraorbital nerves, and those in the lower lid are connected with filaments from the superior maxillary nerve. Filaments from this part of the facial also communicate with the malar branch of the upper maxillary nerve. The infraorbital branches, of larger size than the others, are almost horizontal in direction, and are distributed between the orbit and mouth. They supply the buccinator and orbicularis oris muscles, the elevators of the upper lip and angle of the mouth, and the muscles of the nose. Be- neath the elevator of the upper lip these nerves are united in a plexus with the terminal branches of the superior maxillary nerve ; on the side of the nose they communicate with the nasal, and at the inner angle of the orbit with the infratrochlear nerve. The lower branches of this set are connected with those of the cervico-facial division. Cervicofacial division.—This division of the facial nerve is directed obliquely through the parotid gland towards the angle of the lower jaw, and gives branches to the face, below those of the preceding division, and to the upper part of the neck. The branches are named buccal, supramaxillary, and inframaxillary. In the gland, this division of the facial nerve is joined by filaments of the great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus, and offsets from it penetrate the substance of the gland. The buccal branches are directed across the masseter muscle to the angle of the mouth ; supplying the buccinator and sphincter muscles, they communicate with the temporo-facial division, and on the buccinator