EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 323 longed downwards over the spermatic cord to the scrotum. The sub- cutaneous layer, losing its fat, is combined with the deeper layer as they both pass to the scrotum ; and here the united layer acquires a reddish brown colour, and undergoes a modification in structure by becoming mingled largely with involuntary muscular fibres, constituting the dados tunic of the scrotum. Some involuntary muscular fibres also exist in the altered superficial fascia which covers the penis. This covering, on leaving the scrotum posteriorly, becomes continuous with the superficial fascia of the perineum. The parts of the superficial fascia here described have received minute atten- tion from anatomists, by reason of their close relation to the seat of hernial tumours and other pathological conditions ; the adhesion of the fascia below Poupart's ligament, and its disposition over the inguinal aperture, spermatic cord, and scrotum, while they prevent the descent upon the thigh of fluid which has been effused beneath the fascia, cause it either to spread upwards upon the abdomen or to take its course downwards into the scrotum. The deep layer of the abdominal fascia is also interesting as corresponding with the tunica abdominalis of animals, a strong membrane consisting almost entirely of yellow elastic tissue, which may be well seen in the horse or ox, and which contributes to the support of the viscera. Muscles.—The muscular wall of the abdomen is formed on each side for the most part by three layers of muscle, the fibres of which run in different directions ; those of the superficial and middle layers being oblique, and those of the innermost layer being transverse. In front, these three layers of muscle are replaced by tendinous expansions, which meet in the middle line, giving rise to the tinea alba; on each side of this line the fibres of the rectus muscle extend in a vertical direction between the tendinous layers, supported usually at the lower end by the pyramidalis muscle. Posteriorly, the wall is formed in part by apo- neurosis, and in part by muscles of which the fibres are chiefly vertical, viz., the muscles of the back, and in front of them the quadratus lum- borum. The obliquus externus abdominis muscle, the strongest and most superficial of the three broad muscles of the abdomen, arises from the outer surface of the lower eight ribs, by slips arranged in a serrated series, four or five of them interdigitating with origins of the serratus magnus, and three or four with origins of the latissimus dorsi. The lower and upper digitations of the external oblique are connected with the ribs near their cartilages, the intermediate ones are attached to the ribs at some distance from their extremities ; the lowest digitation generally embraces the cartilage of the twelfth rib. The fleshy fibres from the last two ribs pass down in a nearly vertical direction to be in- serted into the external margin of the crest of the ilium for about the an- terior half of its length ; all the rest incline downwards and forwards, and terminate in tendinous fibres, which form the broad aponeurosis by ■which the greater part of the muscle is inserted. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is wider below than above, and is larger than that of either of the subjacent broad muscles. Consisting for the most part of oblique fibres, which continue the direc- tion of the muscular fasciculi, it extends inwards towards the middle line in front, where it meets its fellow of the opposite side in the linea alba ; at some distance from this line, but farther out above than below\ y 2