271 AURICULAR MUSCLES. division. Posteriorly it is attached to the occipitales muscles, and to the protuberance and superior curved lines of the occipital bone, and anteriorly it terminates in the frontales muscles, while laterally it pre- sents no distinct margin, but below the temporal line becomes thinner and less aponeurotic, and gives attachment to the superior and anterior auricular muscles. Its fibres are chiefly longitudinal, and are most distinctly tendinous where they give attachment to the occipitales muscles. Its outer surface is firmly bound to the shin by an abundant network of connective tissue, constituting the so-called superficial fascia, by the meshes of which the subcutaneous fat is divided into granules; while its deep surface glides upon the subjacent pericranium, to which it is loosely attached by a delicate areolar tissue devoid of fat. Varieties.—Both parts of the occipito-frontalis are subject to variation in their development, and in their places of attachment. The occipitalis occasionally approaches the middle line, and is frequently broken up into separate parts : its outermost fibres are sometimes inserted into the back of the pinna, becoming continuous with the posterior auricular muscle. The frontalis may send slips from its inner part to the frontal, nasal, or superior maxillary bones, or into the levator labii superioris absque nasi, or from its outer part to the external angular process of the frontal bone, all of which have been described as normal by different anatomists. Actions.—By the contraction of the frontales muscles the eyebrows are elevated, the scalp drawn forwards, and the skin of the forehead thrown into transverse wrinkles; by the contraction of the occipitales muscles the scalp is drawn backwards; and by the alternate action of the frontales and occipitales muscles the scalp is moved forwards and backwards. In the majority of persons, however, there is only a partial control over the action of these muscles, limited to the elevation of the eyebrows and horizontal wrinkling of the forehead. AURICULAR MUSCLES. Besides minute bundles of muscular fibres which, pass from one part of the pinna to another, and which will be most conveniently described with that structure, there are attached to the external ear three larger, but still very slightly developed, muscles, which serve to move it as a whole. The auricularis superior or attollens auriculam, the largest of the three, arises in the temporal region of the head from the epicranial aponeurosis. Its fibres are extremely delicate, and converge from a wide surface to be inserted by a compressed tendon into the anterior part of the helix and into the eminence on the inner surface of the pinna corresponding to the fossa of the antihelix. The auricularis anterior or attraliens auriculam, scarcely sepa- rated from the preceding muscle, is pale and indistinct, and is attached to the thin lateral prolongation of the epicranial aponeurosis, from which it passes backwards to be inserted into the fore part of the helix. The auricularis posterior or retrahens auriculam muscle con- sists of two or three fasciculi, which arise from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone by short aponeurotic fibres, and are inserted into the back part of the concha. The fibres are deeper in colour and more distinctly marked than in either of the other auricular muscles. Varieties.—Of the auricular muscles the posterior and the anterior are subject to greater varieties than the superior, but all vary somewhat in the extent of their development, the posterior more frequently by an increase in the number