SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE LOWER LIMB. 602 the tibia. Of the adductor muscles, the only parts that are to be separately recognised are the strong tendon of origin of the adductor longus below the pubic crest, and the lower tendon of the adductor magnus which is felt distinctly, when the knee is bent, in the interval between the sartorius and vastus interims muscles, extending down to the adductor tubercle on the internal condyle of the femur. The adductors are not marked off on the surface from the hamstring group on the back of the thigh, nor are the latter muscles to be individually distinguished from one another until they become tendinous near the knee. Along the outer and posterior part of the thigh, however, the hamstring muscles are separated from the vastus externus by a well marked groove, corresponding to the position of the external intermus- cular septum. The whole of the shaft of the femur is deeply placed, and in fairly muscular subjects is not to be detected through its fleshy covering. The head of the bone is situated close below Poupart’s ligament, immediately external to its mid-point, and is occasionally, in thin subjects, to be felt in this position through the overlying muscles. The subcutaneous veins of the thigh all join one trunk, the internal saphenous, which ascends from the hinder part of the inner side of the knee, with a gradual inclination forwards, to the saphenous opening. The extent to which this vein and its branches are to be perceived varies greatly with the amount of subcutaneous fat. The position of the femoral artery is indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis to the prominent tuberosity on the inner condyle of the femur, the hip having been first slightly flexed and the thigh everted. At the junction of the upper three-fourths with the lower fourth of this line, the artery passes backwards through the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. Pressure is most conveniently applied to the vessel as it enters the thigh below Poupart’s ligament, and it should be directed backwards so as to compress the artery against the pubis and the adjacent part of the hip-joint. Lower down, the pressure must be made in a direction backwards and outwards, as the artery lies considerably to the inner side of the shaft of the femur. At Poupart’s ligament, the femoral vein is close to the inner side of the artery, and tbe anterior crural nerve is a little distance (a quarter to half an inch) from its outer side. The profunda, arising from the main trunk usually between one and two inches below Poupart’s ligament, follows a line almost identical with that of the femoral artery. The small sciatic (posterior cutaneous) nerve lies immediately beneath the fascia along the middle line of the back of the thigh ; and in the same line, but under cover of the hamstring muscles, is the great sciatic nerve. THE KNEE. On the inner side of the knee, the internal condyle of the femur and the corresponding tuberosity of the tibia produce a rounded surface, the most prominent point of which is formed by the tuberosity on the internal condyle. The interval between the two bones opposite the knee- joint is seldom to be seen, but is always easily felt. On the upper part of the inner condyle, the sharp adductor tubercle and the insertion of the adductor magnus tendon are also to be recognized. The external condyle, although not prominent, is subcutaneous and readily felt; its