463 EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. course, together with that of the common iliac artery, may be marked by a line drawn on the surface of the abdomen from the place of division of the aorta, i.e., a spot about a finger’s breadth to the left of and below the umbilicus, to a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. The upper third of this line would lie over the common iliac, the lower two-thirds over the external iliac artery. In its course downwards and forwards, the external iliac artery is situated a little above the brim of the pelvis, and rests for the most part against the inner border of the psoas, but near Poupart’s ligament it passes on to the front of that muscle. It is, however, separated from the muscle by the iliac fascia, to which it is bound, together with the companion vein, by the subperitoneal tissue. The artery is covered by peritoneum, and crossed on the left side by the sigmoid flexure of the colon, on the right by the termination of the ileum. The ureter, as it descends into the pelvis, sometimes passes over the upper end of the vessel. Relation to veins, &c.—The ex- ternal iliac vein lies at first behind the artery with an inclination to the inner side ; but, as the vessels approach Poupart’s ligament at the fore part of the pelvis, the vein is on the same plane with the artery and quite to the inner side, being carried forwards by the bone. At a short distance from its lower end the artery is crossed by the cir- cumflex iliac vein. Fig. 276.—The distribution and anas- tomoses OP THE EPIGASTRIC AND IN- TERNAL mammary arteries (from Tiede- mann). £ For the detailed description of this figure, see p. 399. 7, on the transversalis muscle above the internal abdominal ring, points to the last part of the external iliac artery, at the place where it gives origin to 8, the epigastric, and 9, the circumflex iliac ar- tery; 10, anastomosis of the epigastric with the abdominal branch of the internal mammary artery ; 11, spermatic cord, re- ceiving the cremasteric branch from the epigastric artery ; 12, femoral artery; 13, femoral vein; 14, a lymphatic gland closing the crural ring. Fig. 276.