633 SACEAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. The distribution of its brandies is as follows:— A communicating branch is given off about the middle of the thigh to join in the interlacement formed beneath the sartorius by this nerve and branches of the obturator and internal cutaneous nerves. The patellar branch perforates the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata,, and spreads out over the front of the knee, where it forms, by uniting- with branches of the internal and middle (sometimes also the external) cutaneous nerves, a plexus named the patellar plexus. Numerous branches are given off from the nerve to the skin of the leg, and the larger of these turn forwards over the anterior border of the tibia. Its terminal offsets on the inner side of the foot communicate with branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Varieties.—The two branches of the middle, or of the internal, cutaneous nerve frequently arise independently from the anterior crural. The middle cutaneous- nerve sometimes leaves the trunk of the anterior crural at a higher level than usual, within the abdomen. The posterior branch of the internal cutaneous is sometimes very small or absent, its place being supplied by the obturator or the internal saphenous nerve. The anterior crural occasionally gives off the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh. The internal saphenous nerve has been seen ending at the knee, its place in the leg being taken by a branch of the internal popliteal nerve (G. H. Meyer). Summary.—The anterior crural nerve is distributed to the skin upon the fore part and inner side of the thigh, commencing below the termina- tion of the ilio-inguinal and genito-crural nerves. It furnishes also a cutaneous nerve to the inner side of the leg and foot. All the muscles on the front of the thigh receive their nerves from the anterior crural, and the iliacus and pectineus are also supplied by this nerve. Lastly, branches are given from the anterior crural nerve to the femoral artery, and to the hip and knee-joints. FIFTH LUMBAR NERVE. The anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve, having received a fasciculus from the nerve next above it, descends to join the first sacral nerve, and forms part of the sacral plexus. The trunk resulting from the union of the fifth with a part of the fourth nerve is named the lumbosacral cord, and gives origin to the greater part of the superior gluteal nerve. SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. The anterior divisions of the first four sacral nerves emerge from the spinal canal by the anterior sacral foramina, and the fifth passes out between the sacrum and coccyx. The first two sacral nerves are large, and of nearly equal size ; the others diminish rapidly, and the fifth is exceedingly slender. Like the anterior divisions of the other spinal nerves, those of the sacral nerves communicate with the sympathetic : the communicating cords are very short, as the sympathetic ganglia are close to the inner margin of the foramina of the sacrum. The first three nerves and part of the fourth contribute to form the sacral plexus. The fifth has no share in the plexus,—it ends on the back of the coccyx. As the description of the fourth and fifth sacral nerves and of the coccygeal will occupy only a short space, these three