SPIXAL XERVES. 590 Fig. 333.—Diagrammatic outline of the roots AND FIRST PART OF THE SPINAL NERVES, TO- GETHER WITH THE SYMPATHETIC TRUNK OF ONE SIDE. (A. T.) £ The view is taken from before. In the upper part of the figure the pons Yarolii and medulla oblongata are represented, and from V to IX, the roots of the several cranial nerves from the trifacial to the hypoglossal are indicated. On. the left side C 1, is placed opposite the first cer- vical or suboccipital nerve ; and the numbers 2, to 8,followingbelowindicatethecorresponding cer- vical nerves; Br, indicates the brachial plexus ; D 1, is placed opposite the intercostal part of the fiist dorsal nerve, and the numbers 2, to 12, fol- lowing mark the corresponding dorsal nerves; L 1, the first lumbar nerve, and the numbers 2, to 5, following the remaining lumbar nerves ; Cr, the anterior crural, and o, the obturator nerve ; S 1, the first sacral, and the following numbers 2, to 5, the remaining sacral nerves; 6, the coccygeal nerve ; Sc, great sciatic nerve ; x x , the filum terminate of the cord. On the right side of the figure the following letters indicate parts of the sympathetic nerve, viz., a, the superior cervical ganglion communi- cating with the upper cervical spinal nerves and continued below into the great sympathetic cord ; b, the middle cervical ganglion ; c, d, the lower cervical ganglion united with the first dorsal; d', the eleventh dorsal ganglion; from the fifth to the ninth dorsal ganglion the origins of the great splanchnic nerve are shown ; l, the lowest dorsal or upper lumbar ganglion ; s s, the upper sacral ganglion. In the whole extent of the sympathetic cord, the twigs of union with the spinal nerves are shown. SPINAL NERVES. The spinal nerves are characterised by their origin from the spinal cord, and their direct transmission outwards from the spinal canal in the intervals between the vertebrae. There are, in all, thirty-one pairs of these nerves, and, according to the region in which they issue from the spinal canal, they are named cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. By universal usage each pair of nerves in the dorsal, lumbar and sacral regions is named in correspondence with the vertebra below which it emerges. Of the eight pairs of nerves between the cranium and the first dorsal nerve, the uppermost is placed above the atlas, and the second and following nerves below the seven cer- vical vertebrae in succession. These