55 INFERIOR TURBINATE BONE. inferior turbinate crest of the superior maxillary bone, then ascends abruptly to form the lachrymal process and complete the lachrymal canal and articulate with the lachrymal bone; behind this it is folded downwards in the maxillary process, forming part of the inner wall of Fig. 46.—The inferior turbinate bone op THE RIGHT SIDE. (A. T.) § A, from tlie outside ; B, from the inside. 1, anterior angle ; 2, posterior angle ; 1, 3, 2, inferior free border ; 4, internal convex surface ; 5, ethmoidal process ; 6, lachrymal process; 7, outer concave surface ; 8, maxillary process. the antrum below the entrance into that cavity; above and behind this, it presents a small projection which articulates with the uncinate process of the ethmoid, ethmoidal process, and posteriorly it is attached to the inferior turbinate crest of the palate bone. The posterior extremity is elongated, sharp and pointed; the anterior flat- tened and obtuse. This bone is marked by horizontal grooves and canals for vessels and nerves, but not, as the turbinal parts of the ethmoid are, with vertical grooves for the olfactory nerve. Fig. 46. THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The lower jaw, inferior maxilla, mandible, is the thickest and strongest bone of the face, and moves on the rest of the skull by means of a pair of condyles articulating with the glenoid fossae of the temporal bones. It has the shape of an inverted arch bent forwards upon itself. Fig. 47.—The inferior max- illary BONE, FROM THE RIGHT SIDE AND ABOVE. (A. T.) \ 1, body; 2, symphysis ; 3, ramus ; 4, angle, near it the oblique ridges marked by the attachment of the masseter muscle ; 5, coronoid process ; 6, condyle; 7, placed in the sig- moid notch, points to the front of the neck ; 8, mental foramen ; 9, external oblique line ; 10, in- ferior dental foramen and mylo- hyoid groove of the left side. This figure represents a full set of the teeth of the lower jaw in middle life. (See also fig. 54 for view of the inner surface of the lower jaw.) Fig. 47. and consists of a middle larger horizontal part—the body, and of two rami or ascending branches. The body is marked in the middle line by a vertical ridge, indicating the place of union of the originally separate lateral parts, and thence