2SS COMPARISON OF THE LIMB-MUSCLES. to bear in mind, first, the great difference in the attitude of the bones of the proximal segments, the flexor surface in the upper limb being thrown forwards as if by an outward twist, and in the lower limb the flexor surface being turned backwards as if by an inward twist of the proximal segments ; and farther, the preponderance in the second segment of the lower limb of the preaxial bone (tibia) over the postaxial (fibula) as opposed to the greater development of the upper end of the postaxial bone of the arm (ulna) over the preaxial (radius). These differences are apt to lead to confusion and difficulty, inasmuch as the insertions of homologous muscles are in some cases very different in the two limbs. In such cases the determination of the homologies may be greatly assisted, by the observation of the more constant origins. For example, the great extensor of the forearm is inserted into the postaxial ulna, while in the leg the quad- riceps is inserted into the preaxial tibia ; and yet few will doubt the justness of the homological comparison between them. In the distal segments of both limbs the muscles, though more numerous, become shorter and more uniform in their disposition, and hence the homology becomes more apparent between the muscles of the hand and foot, than in those situated nearer the roots of the limbs. From what has been said it appears that considerable difficulty still prevails in the determination of the muscular homologies of the upper and lower limbs, especially in their proximal segments and attachment to the trunk, and the com- parison of these muscles cannot, therefore, be minutely followed out. But the following table may be useful to the student of human anatomy, as presenting what appear to be the most probable views of the muscular relations in the upper and lower limbs, and as indicating the bearing upon such views of some facts in comparative anatomy as well as of some of the varieties mentioned in the pre- vious description of the individual muscles. (Upon this subject consult the works of Humphry, Mivart, Rolleston and Huxley, already quoted at pp. 131 and 188.) TABLE OP MUSCULAR HOMOLOGIES IN THE UPPER AND LOWER LIMBS. I. Muscles passing from Trunk to Limbs or their Girdles. TJpper Limb.* 1. Trapezius . la. Cleido-mastoid .... 11). Rhomboids ..... 2. Levator scapuke ) 2a. Serratus magnus ) 3. Latissimus dorsi ) 3a. Teres major ) 4. Pectoralis major .... -in. Pectoralis minor .... Ih. Subclavius (second pectoral of birds, Rolleston) ? . 5. Omohyoid . . . . . Lower Limb. 1, la. lh. Lumbar aponeurosis and ex- ternal oblique. 2 ( Quadratus lumborum. ’ ' ( Internal oblique. | 3, 3a. Gluteus maximus. 4. Gracilis. Part of Pectineus ? 4a. ? 111. Inner or deep head of Pectineus, supplied by obturator nerve (Rolleston) ? II. Muscles passing mainly from Girdle to Limb. !C>a. Scapular part 65. Clavicularpart 7. Supraspinatus 6a. Tensor vaginae femoris and Sar- torius. j 65. Pectineus, outer head supplied by ( anterior crural nerve (Rolleston). 7. Obturator intemus ? * The numbers affixed to the several muscles in the two columns are intended merely as a means of facilitating the reference from one to the other, the upper limb being taken as the standard of comparison. The names of muscles printed in italics are those of varieties more or less frequently found in human anatomy.