345 MORPHOLOGY OF THE TRUNK-MUSCLES. development lias not yet been worked out, and they are regarded by many anatomists (Humphry and Balfour among others) as being merely separated portions of the ventro-lateral muscle. The dorso-lateral muscle consists of fibres which more than any others retain their original segmented character and longitudinal direction. It is represented in man by the mass of muscles which lies in the vertebral groove of the back, and which, arising from the lower vertebrae, splits as it passes upwards to be inserted into other vertebrae, the ribs and the skull. It may be divided into three sets of muscles, characterized by the different directions of their fibres. The first set consists of those which run for the most part in a longitudinal direction, as from spine to spine, in spinalis and interspinales ; from transverse process to transverse process in longissimus dorsi and intertransversales ; or from rib to rib in ilio-costalis. The second set consists of muscular fibres directed more or less obliquely upwards and outwards from spines to transverse processes, as in splenius capitis and colli, rectus posticus major and obliquus inferior. The third set is also oblique, but its fibres are directed upwards and inwards from transverse pro- cesses to spines, as in complexus, semispinalis, multifidus, and obliquus superior ; and from transverse processes to 1 ami me. as in rotatores dorsi. In the postaxial part of the trunk in tailed animals this dorsal series of muscles is continued backwards without interruption as the superior caudal muscles, and in man a muscular slip is occasionally found developed as an extensor coccygis ; but in general, owing to the very slight development of the caudal vertebrae and the large size of the pelvic girdle, the dorso-lateral muscles do not in man extend beyond the upper part of the sacrum. Preaxially this muscle is prolonged to the side of the head, where it forms the group of temporal, pterygoids, masseter, and probably the orbital muscles. The connection between these muscles and the dorsal muscles is well seen in the tailed amphibia, where the fibres of the dorsal muscle are directly continuous with those of the temporal. In man this continuity is interrupted in consequence of the great expansion of the cranium, a considerable portion of which is exposed between the temporal and the neck muscles. The ventro-lateral muscle, while equally simple in the lowest vertebrates with the dorso-lateral, shows in the higher animals a much greater degree of com- plexity, both of form and attachments. It springs from the ventral surfaces and tips of the transverse processes of the vertebral, as well as from the lateral septa and general fascial investment; and by means of its connection with the last- mentioned structure the superficial portion of the muscle is prolonged dorsally, and gains an attachment to the spinous processes, so that it covers the dorso- lateral muscle almost completely. Ventrally, it extends round the visceral cavity to the median line, where it is separated from the corresponding mass of the opposite side by the haemal septum, and it thus forms the whole thickness of the muscular portion of the body-wall. It comes into connection with the orifices only of the alimentary canal, where portions of the right and left muscles become united and form the external sphincters. It is farther characterized by the dis- position which certain of its sclerotomes show to become the seat of ossification in the hyoid bone, ribs and limb-girdles. According to the direction of its fibres the trunk portion of this muscular mass may be divided into two groups of muscles, a mesial with longitudinally directed fibres and a lateral with more or less obliquely directed fibres. The mesial group is represented in man by the rectus abdominis, supracostalis (an occasional muscle), the stemo-mastoid, stemo-hyoid, sterno-thyro-hyoid and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, the anterior belly of the digastric, genio- hyoid and genio-glossus ; and it repeats more closely the simple segmented con- dition of the dorsal muscle than is the case with the lateral fibres. In fishes the oblique fibres are almost entirely wanting, and in the lower vertebrates generally they are less developed than the longitudinal. On the other hand, in the higher forms, as in man, the oblique fibres are the more important, the longitudinal fibres being in certain places (thorax) absent altogether, or only occasionally present as supracostalis. In some animals, as Lepidosiren, the oblique fibres of the abdomen are directly continuous with the longitudinal, but in man greater differentiation exists, for the lateral muscles are merely prolonged forwards as strong aponeuroses