LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 539 cephalic vein to the glands in the infraclavicular fossa, and these are joined by others which pass forwards from the shoulder. The deep lymphatics of the upper limb correspond with the deep blood-vessels. In the forearm they consist, therefore, of three sets, associated respectively with the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries and veins. In their progress upwards, they communicate near the wrist with the superficial lymphatics, and some of them enter the glands which lie by the side of the brachial artery near the bend of the elbow. They all terminate in the glands of the axilla. The superficial lymphatics of the chest include the vessels running under cover of, and collecting lymph from, the pectoral muscles, the cutaneous lymphatics of this region, and the greater number of the lymphatics of the mamma. They are directed outwards and traverse the pectoral glands on their way to join the principal axillary glands. Associated with these vessels are the superficial lymphatics of the upper part of the abdominal wall, which commence about the level of the umbilicus, where they decussate with others passing downwards to the superficial inguinal glands, and then ascend to the pectoral and axillary glands. The superficial lymphatics of the back converge to the axillary glands from its various regions ; from the neck over the surface of the trapezius muscle, from the posterior part of the deltoid, and from the whole dorsal and lumbar regions as low as the crest of the ilium ; the branches decussating inferiority with vessels leading to the inguinal glands, and likewise crossing the middle line so as to decussate with branches of the opposite side. (Mascagni, tab. xxii., xxiii., xxiv.) LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The lymphatic glands of the head are comparatively few and small ; those of the neck are, on the contrary, large and numerous. The follow- ing groups of glands, with their associated vessels, are distinguished :— 1. One or two suboccipital glands are placed beneath the skin, over the upper end of the complexus muscle, and receive the lymphatics from the hindmost part of the scalp ; their efferent vessels join the super- ficial cervical glands. 2. The mastoid glands are two or three in number, and lie over the insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; they receive lymphatics which descend from the scalp behind the ear, and their efferent vessels enter the superficial cervical glands. 3. The parotid lymphatic glands, three or four of small size, lie beneath the parotid fascia, and are frequently more or less embedded in the substance of the parotid gland; one, larger than the others, is situated immediately in front of the tragus of the ear. They receive the superficial lymphatics descending from the temporal region, and their efferent vessels pass to the submaxillary and superficial cervical glands. 4. The internal maxillary glands are placed deeply beneath the ramus of the lower jaw, one or two with the internal maxillary artery, others on the hinder part of the buccinator muscle and the side wall of the pharynx. Their afferent vessels are derived from the temporal, zygomatic, orbital and nasal fossae, as well as the palate and upper part of the pharynx; their efferent vessels enter the superior deep cervical glands.