INTRODUCTION. 4 segmentation affects more or less, not merely the skeletal parts of its structure, hut also, to some extent, its other component organs. Fig. 2. throu; Fig. 2.—Semidiagrammatic VIEW OF A LONGITUDINAL SECTION OF THE EMBRYO REPRESENTED IN FIGURE 1 ; SHOWING THE RELATIONS OF THE PRINCIPAL SYSTEMS AND ORGANS TO EACH OTHER IN THE HORIZONTAL POSITION OF THE VERTE- BRAL AXIS. (A. T.) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, primary divisions of the brain in the cranial part of the neural canal ; n, n, spinal cord in the vertebral part of the canal; s, spinous process of one of the vertebra (4th ;h the axis of the vertebral centra ; ch\ the a, dorsal aorta ; p, pharyngeal cavity i dorsal) ; eh, chorda dorsalis runninL same extending into the base of the cranium ■i, i, alimentary canal ; h, ventricular part of the heart, from which the arterial bulb is seen joining the aorta by arches ; h, visceral arches ; l, liver ; vj, Wolffian body; v, urinary vesicle or allantois, joining the intestine in the cloaca, cl; u, u', umbilicus. Fig. 3. Fig. 4. Fig. 3.—Transverse section (diagrammatic) of the trunk of the embryo THROUGH THE UPPER LIMBS. (A. T.) 7ii, spinal cord; n, neural or dorsal arch, including bone, muscle, skin, roots of the nerves, &c. ; ch, chorda dorsalis, surrounded by the vertebral body or centrum ; v, ventral or visceral arch, or wall of the body ; p, p, pleuro-peritoneal cavity ; i, alimentary canal; /(, heart ; 7, l, the rudimentary limbs. Fig. 4.—First dorsau vertebra with the first rib and upper part of the STERNUM, SEEN FROM ABOVE. ^ O, centrum ; IVj neural cavity j V, cavity of the chest, visceral cavity. It is true that a segmented plan of construction is not restricted to vertebrate animals, but exists in several other classes of the animal kingdom, as is most conspicuously seen in the Arthropoda, such as insects and Crustacea. In these animals, however, although there is a marked repetition of parts of like struc- ture in a longitudinal series, there are many important deviations from the vertebrate type of organisation ; and it is unnecessary here to trace the corre- spondence between their structure and that of man.