MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 210 this head has been found to be attached in the bicipital groove, not extending to the scapula. The brachialis anticus muscle arises from the lower half of the front of the humerus and from the intermuscular septa of the arm. At the upper part of its origin it embraces the insertion of the deltoid by- two angular fleshy processes ; it extends downwards to the capsule of the elbow-joint, and inwards to the internal supracondylar ridge and the intermuscular septum in its whole extent; on its outer side it is separated from the intermuscular septum in the greater part of its length by the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior, and only arises from it for a short distance at its upper end. It is closely adherent to the anterior ligament of the elbow-joint, and terminates below in a thick mass which is inserted into the rough triangular surface on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna. Relations.—This muscle lies immediately behind and projects on each side of the biceps. It supports the brachial vessels and median nerve. On the outer side the musculo-spiral nerve lies upon it, under cover of the supinator longus. Varieties.—This muscle is subject to considerable variation. The most frequent of these consist in its subdivision into two or sometimes more parts; its union with neighbouring muscles, such as supinator longus, pronator teres or biceps ; insertion of a slip from it into the semilunar fascia; and occasionally into the radius. The triceps extensor cubiti (figs. 162, 163) occupies the whole posterior brachial region. The muscle consists of three separate portions or heads, which are united below in a common tendon occupying the posterior surface of the mass from the middle of the arm to the elbow, where it terminates by being inserted into the olecranon process of the ulna. The middle or long head arises from the rough triangular impres- sion on the lower part of the neck, and the adjacent portion of the axillary border of the scapula, by a tendon which spreads over the surface of the muscular structure proceeding from it. This head forms the middle and superficial part of the muscle, and its fibres end on the inner margin of the common tendon. The external head takes origin by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the upper and outer part of the posterior surface of the humerus, extending from the insertion of the teres minor downwards as low as the spiral groove, and from an aponeurotic arch formed by the external intermuscular septum as it crosses the upper part of the groove : its fibres, which are comparatively short, descend obliquely to be inserted into the upper end and outer border of the tendon. The internal or deep head, the shortest of the three, arises from the whole extent of the posterior surface of the humerus below the spiral groove, on the inner aspect of the arm reaching by a pointed process as high as the insertion of the teres major ; it also rises from the internal intermuscular septum in all its length, and from the inferior portion of the external septum. Some of its lower fibres are inserted immediately into the olecranon, but the greater part of them join the deep surface of the common tendon. No muscular fibres arise from the spiral groove itself. The insertion of the common tendon takes place into the posterior part of the upper surface of the olecranon, a small bursa intervening between it and the fore part of the surface ; from its outer side also a considerable band is prolonged downwards over the anconeus, blending with the fascia, in which the fibres can be followed to the posterior border of the ulna.