MORPHOLOGY OF THE TRUNK-MUSCLES. 34C which, form a fibrous sheath for the rectus on each side of the middle line. In man these longitudinal fibres have little or no connection with the muscles of the limbs, but in urodelans they are continued outwards upon the ventral aspect of each limb as part of the pectoralis major and gracilis. Longitudinal fibres are also found in the pyramidalis, a small rudimentary muscle in man, but which in marsupials and monotremes is extremely large ; and as a rare variety between the lateral oblique muscles forming a lateral rectus, which consists of a few fibres running between the lower ribs and the ilium. Posteriorly again the longitudinal direction is maintained by certain fibres of the quadratus lumborum. The lateral group of trunk muscles, distinguished by the oblique direction of then- fibres, is divisable usually into three or it may be into four layers. In the lowest vertebrates this stratification does not occur, but in the higher animals it is coincident with the differentiation of separate muscles. Of these layers three are very constant in their relations and extent, but the fourth, which is the most superficial, though very constantly found, is on the whole only a partial layer. In man these layers are represented, the first three by the abdominal muscles, the external and internal oblique and transversalis respectively, and the fourth by the platysma myoides, the facial, auricular and epicranial muscles. The transverse or deepest of these layers is represented by the transversalis muscle, which is prolonged into the thorax by the triangularis sterni ; and the subcostals, small in man, but very largely developed in birds, serpents, &c., as the retrahentes costarum and levatores costarum interni, must also be referred to this laj^er. The internal oblique is directly continuous with the lower internal intercostals, and the external intercostals and levatores costarum are probably also differen- tiated portions of the same layer. In series with these are the scaleni and anterior intertransverse muscles in the neck, and the quadratus lumborum and lateral intertransverse muscles in the loins. Interiorly, the middle layer furnishes the coccygeus (ischio-caudal), the constrictor urethra, ischio- and bulbo-cavernosus, and transversus perinei. Laterally, it gives the costo-scapular muscles (serratus magnus with the levator scapulas) and the costo-coracoid (subclavius) to the shoulder-girdle; and the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid forms a connection between this layer of the lateral oblique fibres and the mesial longitudinal fibres. Superiorly, the hyo-glossus, the constrictors of the pharynx, the styloid muscles with the posterior belly of the digastric, and the faucial and palatal muscles are probably also derived from this layer (Humphry). The external oblique layer is prolonged upwards upon the side of the chest, and outwards upon the upper limb as pectorales and latissimus dorsi, and between the limb and head as cleido-mastoid and trapezius. The rhomboids and serrati postici appear to be segmented deeper portions of this layer, and its most pre- axial derivative is the mylo-hyoid. The fourth layer, corresponding to the panniculus carnosus of animals, seems to be mainly developed from the cutaneous surface of the last or external oblique layer; or it may be an independent layer developed in close connection with the skin (exoskeleton) and fascial investment. In man this layer extends only upon the surface of the head and neck, and very slightly over the shoulder. It forms the subcutaneus colli or platysma myoides, and those slight continuations down- wards which are found upon the surface of the pectoral and deltoid muscles, as well as the occasional sternalis muscle. On the surface of the head this forms the epicranial muscles, with the intervening aponeurosis, the auricular and the facial muscles. All these muscles are attached to bone usually by one end only, the other being attached to the skin or to the cartilage of some moveable structure, but in some cases they may reach the deeper structures by both ends. Portions of this layer in animals may blend with or even take the place of parts of the subjacent muscles, or they may be enormously developed as compared with other layers, or lastly, the whole layer may be aborted. (See, in addition to the works quoted at p. 188, Gegenbaur, “Elements of Comparative Anatomy,” Eng. Transl. 1878, and Balfour, “ Comparative Embryology,” vol. ii., 1881.)