£02 CRANIAL NERVES. Spheno-Falatine Ganglion. The sphenopalatine ganglion, also named Meckel’s or the nasal gang- lion, is deeply placed in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno- palatine foramen. It receives the two spheno-palatine branches which descend together from the superior maxillary nerve as it crosses the top of the fossa. It is of a reddish-grey colour, triangular in form, and convex on the outer surface. Its diameter is about the fifth of an inch. The grey or ganglionic substance does not involve all the fibres of the spheno-palatine branches of the upper maxillary nerve, hut is placed at the back part, at the point of junction of the Yidian nerve, so that many of the fibres of the spheno-palatine nerves proceeding to the nose and palate pass to their destination without being incorporated with the ganglionic mass. Branches proceed from the ganglion upwards to the orbit, downwards to the palate, inwards to the nose, and backwards through the Yidian and pterygo-palatine canals. Ascending branches.—These consist of three or more very small twigs, which reach the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and are distributed to the periosteum and, according to Luschka, to the mucous membrane of the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses. Bock and Valentin describe a branch, ascending from the ganglion to the sixth nerve ; Tiedemann, one to the lower angle of the ophthalmic ganglion. The filaments described by Hirzel as ascending to the optic nerve most probably join the ciliary twigs which surround that nerve. Descending branches.—These are three in number,—the large, the small, and the external palatine nerves, and are in great part continued directly from the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary. (a) The large or anterior palatine nerve descends in the palato-maxillary canal, and divides in the roof of the mouth into branches which are received into grooves in the hard palate, and extend forwards nearly to the incisor teeth. In the mouth it supplies the inner side of the gum, the glands, and the mucous membrane of the hard palate, and joins in front with the naso-palatine nerve. When entering its canal, this pala- tine nerve gives a nasal branch which ramifies on the middle and lower spongy bones; and a little before leaving the canal, another branch is supplied to the membrane covering the lower spongy bone: these are the inferior nasal branches. (h) The small ox posterior palatine nerve enters, with a small artery, the lesser palatine canal, and is conducted to the soft palate, the tonsil, and the uvula. Through it are supplied also the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles. (c) The external palatine nerve, the smallest of the series, courses through the external palatine canal between the maxilla and the tuber- osity of the palate bone, to be distributed to the tonsil and the outer part of the soft palate. This nerve is occasionally wanting. Internal branches.—These consist of the naso-palatine, and the upper nasal branches, which ramify in the lining membrane of the nasal fossae and adjoining sinuses. The upper nasal are very small branches,-and enter the back part of the nasal fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen. Some are prolonged to the upper and posterior part of the septum, and the remainder ramify