EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. Cl The lateral region of the skull presents in succession from behind forwards the mastoid process, the external auditory meatus, the glenoid fossa, with the condyle of the lower jaw, the zygomatic arch, formed by the zygomatic process of the temporal bone and the posterior part of the malar, and internal to this the coronoid process of the lower jaw. Above the zygomatic arch is the temporal fossa, below is the zygomatic fossa, the two being separated by the infratemporal crest on the great wing of the sphenoid. The temporal fossa is occupied by the temporal muscle, and the squamous part of the temporal, the parietal, frontal, sphenoid and malar bones take part in its formation. Fig. 51. Fig. 51.—Section op male skull op middle age, in two planes, one passing VERTICALLY THROUGH THE LEFT ORBIT, THE OTHER OBLIQUELY FROM BEHIND THE ORBIT, BACKWARDS AND OUTWARDS, THROUGH THE TYMPANUM AND MASTOID PRO- CESS. (A. T.) \ 1, section of tlie frontal tone in the roof of the orbit ; 2, left nasal hone ; 3, nasal process of the superior maxillary bone ; 4, left lachrymal hone, and in front the lachrymal groove; 5, placed on the orbital plate of the ethmoid, below the anterior internal orbital canal ; 6, placed on the body of the sphenoid, between the optic foramen and the posterior internal orbital canal, and in front of the sphenoidal fissure; 7, orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone inside the infraorbital groove ; 8, on the orbital plate of the palate bone, in front of and above the spheno-palatine foramen and spheno- maxillary fossa ; 9, upper extremity of the posterior palatine canal; 10, cranial opening of the foramen rotundum—its anterior opening is seen in the spheno-maxillary fossa ; 11, section, of the great wing of the sphenoid bone outside the foramen ovale, aDd in the fossa near it the anterior opening of the Vidian canal ; 12, placed between tbe spinous and oval foramina ; 13, on the anterior surface of the petrous bone, near the apex. In front of the figure is seen the sigmoid groove of the internal carotid artery, and below the figure and externally the hiatus Fallopii; 14, the pituitary fossa, with the anterior and posterior clinoid processes ; 15, section of the petrous bone above the labyrinth ; two of the semi- circular canals are opened ; immediately below is the tympanum. The inner wall is seen with the promontory, fenestra ovalis and pyramid in shadow ; forwards near x, the tympanic opening of the Eustachian tube, and backwards, below 16, the opening into the mastoid cells; 17, left styloid process—that of the right side is seen in perspective below the skull, close by the occipital condyle ; 18, tuberosity of the superior maxilla ; 19, below the canine fossa ; 20, nasal notch and anterior nasal spine ; 21, inner wall of the antrum seen by the removal of its outer wall ; above the figure is the maxillary process of the inferior turbinate bone, and over that an irregular fissure, Tiz., the opening of the antrum into the middle meatus of the nose.