MESENTERIC ARTERIES. 441 2. The right colic artery passes transversely towards the right side, beneath the peritoneum, to the middle of the ascending colon, opposite which it divides into two branches ; of these one descends to com- municate with the ileo-colic artery, while the other ascends to join in an arch with the middle colic. This artery and the ileo-colic often arise by a common trunk. 3. The middle colic artery runs forwards between the layers of the transverse mesocolon towards the transverse colon, and divides in a manner exactly similar to that of the vessels j ust noticed. One of its branches inclines to the right, where it inosculates with the preceding vessel; the other passes to the left side, and forms a similar communica- tion with the left colic branch, derived from the inferior mesenteric artery. From the arches of inosculation thus formed, small branches pass to the colon for the supply of its coats. Those branches of the superior mesenteric artery which supply the ascending colon have a layer of peritoneum only on their anterior aspect; the others lie between two strata. Varieties.—The number of the branches of the superior mesenteric artery, both intestinal and colic, is by no means constant. It also frequently gives off accessory branches to the neighbouring viscera; of these that to the liver is the most common. An offset of this artery may replace the gastro-duodenal or its chief branch, the right gastro-epiploic, or it may give accessory pancreatic and splenic branches (Hyrtl), or the artery to the gall-bladder. It has also been seen to give off the left colic artery, and in one case in which the inferior mesenteric was absent also the superior heemorrhoidal (Fleischmann). A rare anomaly is the presence of an omphalo-mesenteric artery, arising either from the main stem or from one of the branches of the superior mesenteric. In one case it ran directly to the umbilicus where it gave a branch to the urachus (Haller). In another it reached the anterior wall of the abdomen rather below the umbilicus, and after giving a branch to the rectus, which anastomosed with the deep epigas- tric, it terminated by ascending in the round ligament, and forming a capillary net- work in the falciform ligament of the liver (Hyrtl). The inferior mesenteric artery (iii-iv) arises from the front of the aorta between one and two- inches above its bifurcation, and supplies the lower half of the large intestine. Inclining slightly to the left, it passes downwards close to the aorta, gives off branches to the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure, and is continued under the name of superior hccmorrlioidal artery over the left common iliac vessels to the back of the rectum. Branches.—(a) The left colic artery is directed to the left side behind the peritoneum, and across the left kidney, to reach the descending colon. It divides into two branches, which form a series of arches in the same way as the colic vessels of the opposite side. One of these two branches passes upwards along the colon, and inosculates with the left branch of the middle colic ; while the other descends and anastomoses with the sigmoid artery. (b) The sigmoid artery runs obliquely downwards to the sigmoid flexure of the colon, where it divides into branches, which form arches like the other arteries ; the highest branch joins the left colic, the lower ones turn downwards to the rectum and anastomose with the following artery. Instead of a single sigmoid artery, two or three branches are sometimes present. (c) The superior hccmorrlioidal artery, the continuation of the inferior