OBTURATOR NERVE. G25 under Poupart’s ligament, and enters the thigh immediately below the anterior superior iliac spine, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch distributed to the integument of the outer side of the hip and thigh (fig. 352, 1). (a) The posterior branch perforates the fascia lata and subdivides into two or three others, which turn backwards and supply the skin upon the outer surface of the limb, from the upper border of the hip-bone nearly to the middle of the thigh. The highest among them are crossed by the cutaneous branches from the last dorsal nerve. (5) The anterior brand/, the continuation of the nerve, is at first con- tained in a canal formed in the substance of the fascia lata ; but, about four inches below Poupart’s ligament, it enters the subcutaneous fatty tissue, and is distributed along the outer part of the front of the thigh, ending near the knee. The principal offsets spring from its outer side. In some cases, this branch reaches quite down to the knee, and takes part there in the formation of the patellar plexus. Obturator nerve.—The obturator nerve is distributed mainly to the adductor muscles of the thigh, and to the hip and knee-joints. It arises from the lumbar plexus generally by three roots, proceeding from the second, third and fourth lumbar nerves, but the highest of these is not unfrequently wanting. Having emerged from the inner border of the psoas muscle, opposite to the brim of the pelvis, it runs along the side of the pelvic cavity, above the obturator vessels, as far as • the opening in the upper part of the thyroid foramen, through which it escapes from the pelvis into the thigh. In the foramen, it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, which are separated from one another by some fibres of the obturator externus, and lower down by the short adductor muscle. A. The anterior or superficial portion communicates with the accessory obturator nerve, when that is present, and descends over the upper border of the obturator externus and in front of the adductor brevis, but behind the pectineus and adductor longus muscles. It gives branches as follows («) An articular branch to the hip-joint arises in the thyroid foramen. (b) Muscular branches are given to the gracilis and adductor longus muscles, generally also to the adductor brevis, and occasionally to the pectineus. (c) The terminal twig turns outwards upon the femoral artery, and surrounds that vessel with small filaments. (d) An offset at the lower border of the adductor longus communicates beneath the sartorius with the internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve, and with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve, forming a sort of plexus. B. The posterior or cleep part of the obturator nerve, having perforated the upper fibres of the obturator externus muscle, crosses behind the short adductor to the fore part of the adductor magnus, where it divides into several branches, all of which enter those muscles, excepting one which is prolonged downwards to the knee-joint. (a) The muscular branches supply the external obturator and the great adductor muscle, with the short adductor also when this muscle receives no branch from the anterior division of the nerve. (5) The articular branch for the knee rests at first on the adductor magnus, but perforates the lower fibres of that muscle, and thus reaches VOL. i. s s