BONES OF THE HEAD. 52 articulates with the sphenoid. The process is generally hollow, and the cavity completes one of the posterior ethmoidal cells, or it may open behind into the sphenoidal sinus. The orbital surface is frequently found enlarged from the union with the palate bone of a portion of bone ossifying from a separate centre, usually united with the ethmoid or sphenoid, and already described with the sphenoidal spongy bone (p. 43). The sphenoidal 'process curves upwards, inwards, and backwards from the posterior part of the vertical plate. Its superior or external surface is in contact with the body of the sphenoid and the base of the internal pterygoid plate, and is grooved for the completion of the pterygo-palatine canal; its internal or under surface looks to the posterior nares ; and at its base a third surface looks forwards and outwards into the spheno- maxillary fossa. Its inner extremity is in contact with the ala of the vomer. The two processes are separated by the deep sjoheno-palatine notch, which is closed above by the body of the sphenoid, and thus converted into the foramen of the same name. It leads from the spheno-maxillary fossa into the nasal cavity, and transmits the internal nerves from Meckel’s ganglion and the nasal branch of the internal maxillary artery. THE VOMER. The vomer is a thin mesial bone, irregularly quadrilateral, and placed vertically between the nasal fossae. It articulates with the sphenoid, ethmoid, palate, and superior maxillary bones, and with the septal cartilage of the nose. Fig. 42. Fig. 42.—The vomer. (A. T.) § A, from the right side ; B, from above. 1, 1, the aloe on each side of the hollow which receives the rostmm of the sphenoid ; 2, anterior border, grooved to receive the septal cartilage of the nose, and prolonged at x into a process which rests upon the incisor crest; 3, posterior border ; 4, inferior border. The surfaces are smooth and in the recent state covered by mucous membrane : each is traversed by a faint groove running downwards and forwards, and conducting the naso-palatine nerve and vessels to the anterior palatine canal. The superior border is by far the thickest part of the bone, and is divided into two spreading alee, which fit under the body of the sphenoid, receiving the rostrum into the groove between them; the edge of each ala meets the vaginal process of the sphenoid and the sphe- noidal process of the palate bone. The anterior border, sloping downwards and forwards, is grooved for the septal cartilage, and in the upper half is united by anchylosis on one or both sides with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. The anterior extremity of the vomer forms a short vertical edge which fits in behind the incisor crest of the maxillaries, and from the upper end of which a process projects forwards in the groove of the