070 SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. downwards, the upper one by turning it over a probe, and the ocular and palpebral conjunctiva can thus be completely examined ; the former is transparent and smooth, presenting only a few minute vessels in the healthy state ; the latter is more or less red and velvetty in appearance. The Meibomian glands are seen at the same time, appearing through the conjunctiva as lines of yellowish granules arranged perpendicularly to the edges of the lids, and along the latter the openings of their ducts are visible in the form of minute spots within the line of the eyelashes. If the eyelids are drawn forcibly outwards, the internal tarsal ligament, or tendo oculi, is made to project between the inner canthus and the margin of the orbit, and this band can also be felt as it is tightened during the act of winking. Behind the tarsal ligament, and reaching to a somewhat higher level, is the lachrymal sac, and into the latter the canaliculi open, taking a course from the puncta. lachrymalia, at first vertically, and then nearly horizontally, the one above and the other below the ligament. A knife entered immediately below the internal tarsal ligament will open the lower part of the lachrymal sac, and a probe may then be passed through the incision, in a direction downwards and slightly backwards and outwards, along the nasal duct into the nose. On looking into the mouth, the teeth are seen, and by everting the lips, the outer surface of the gums may be inspected, and the alveolar processes can be examined with the finger. The smooth mucous mem- brane lining the lips is thus exposed, and in the middle line, passing from each lip to the jaw, is a thin fold termed the frgenum ; of these the upper one is the larger. On pulling the angle of the mouth out- wards, the lining membrane of the inside of the cheek can be examined, and the papilla on which the duct of Stenson opens may be seen and felt opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw ; with some difficulty a fine probe may be made to enter the aperture. A little farther back, if the mouth be alternately opened and shut, it is easy to distinguish the anterior border of the masseter and temporal muscles, as well as the edge and inner surface of the ramus of the jaw. By raising the tongue, the inner aspect of the gums and the floor of the mouth are brought into view. The under surface of the tongue is smooth, and is connected in the middle line with the floor of the mouth by the fraenum linguae, a fold of mucous membrane similar to, but much larger than, the fraena of the lips ; from this a fine line is continued for- wards to the tip of the tongue. Somewhat less than half an inch external to the fraenum, on each side, the ranine vein is clearly seen through the delicate mucous membrane ; the corresponding artery is more deeply placed and does not come into view ; an elevated and fringed line of the mucous membrane lies superficially to these vessels, and may be followed, converging towards its fellow, almost as far as the tip of the tongue. Between the alveolar border and the tongue, on each side, is a well marked ridge of the mucous membrane, directed obliquely forwards and inwards, over the sublingual salivary gland. Each ridge ends close to the middle line in a small papilla, and on this is seen, in the form of a minute spot, the opening of Wharton’s duct, into which a fine probe may be easily passed. On putting back the head, the mucous membrane covering the hard palate, and the soft palate come into view, as well as the uvula, the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces, and the tonsils. The hamular process is plainly felt a little behind and internal to the last