LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER LIMB. o38 and the shoulder, and are con- nected above with the inferior cervical glands, below with the axillary glands. The efferent vessels of the axillary glands ascend with the subclavian vein, and form by their union in some cases a single trunk {axillary lympha- tic trunk), in others two or three large vessels, which ter- minate on the left side in the thoracic duct, on the right side in the right lymphatic duct. Sometimes they open separately into the subclavian vein near its termination. The superficial lympha- tics of the upper limb are usually described as forming Fig. 308.—Superficial lymphatics of the breast, SHOULDER, AND UPPER LIMB, FROM BEFORE (after Mascagni). (A. T.) A Tlie lymphatics are represented as lying upon the deep fascia. a, placed on the clavicle, points to the external jugular vein; i, cephalic vein; c, basilic vein; cl, radial; e, median ; /, ulnar vein ; rj, great pectoral muscle, cut and turned outwards ; 1, superficial lymphatic vessels and glands above the clavicle ; 2, infraclavieular glauds ; 3, 3, pectoral glands; 4, 4, axillary glands ; 5, two small glands placed near the bend of the arm ; 6, radial lymphatic vessels ; 7, ulnar lymphatic vessels; 8, 8, palmar arch of lymphatics two divisions corresponding with the super- ficial veins on the outer and inner borders. On the front of the limb they arise from an arch formed in the palm of the hand by the union of two lymphatic vessels proceeding from each finger, becoming more numerous in the forearm, they are found thickly set over its surface, whence they pass upwards in the arm ; the inner vessels in a straight direction, following the course of the basilic vein, and those placed further outwards inclin- inggradually inwards over the biceps muscle to reach the axillary glands. On the back of the hand also, two lymphatics proceed from each finger; and from the copious network on the back of the forearm vessels pass over the radial margin, and in greater number round the ulnar side to join those in front. A few lymphatic vessels ascend with the