197 THE PECTORAL MUSCLES. the clavicle ; the sternocostal portion from the anterior surface of the sternum, from the cartilages of the upper six ribs and from the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The -fibres of the two portions converge, and form a thick mass which is inserted by a tendon of considerable breadth into the pectoral ridge of the humerus. The tendon of insertion is composed of two layers, which are only united for a limited extent along their lower margins. The anterior layer is formed by the upper sterno-costal fibres, and is also joined on its front surface by the descending clavicular portion of the muscle, the latter being prolonged downwards beyond the level of the sterno-costal fibres and becoming closely united with the tendon of the deltoid. The posterior layer of the tendon is formed by the lower sterno-costal fibres, which turn backwards successively behind the upper part; this layer of the tendon reaches higher on the humerus than the anterior, and from its upper border an expansion is given off, covering the long head of the biceps muscle, to the great tuberosity of the humerus and the capsule of the shoulder-joint. From the lower border of the tendon also a slip is prolonged to the fascia of the arm. Relations.—The folded inferior border of the pectoralis major forms the an- terior margin of the axilla ; the superior runs parallel with that of the deltoid muscle, from which it is separated only by a slight interval which becomes wider towards the clavicle, and in which run the cephalic vein and the humeral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery. The anterior surface is subcutaneous in the greater part of its extent, being covered only by some of the fibres of the platysma myoides and by the mamma. The posterior surface rests chiefly on the pec- toralis minor, and with that muscle forms the anterior wall of the axilla. Varieties.—The more frequent varieties of this muscle consist in the greater or less extent of its attachments to the ribs or sternum, and the greater or less separation of its clavicular and sterno-costal parts. The clavicular part has occa- sionally been observed to be absent, or to be incorporated completely with the deltoid. The tendinous and fleshy fibres of origin of opposite sides sometimes meet and even decussate in front of the sternum. In some instances additional muscular slips take origin from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and in others considerable deficiency, or even absence, of the sterno-costal portion of the muscle has been observed. Sometimes also slips connect the great pectoral with the biceps muscle. The slips of connection with the latissimus dorsi have already been noticed. Cliondro-epitroclilcaris.—This name has been given to a muscular slip which is occasionally seen, springing from one or two rib-cartilages, or from the aponeurosis of the external oblique, below the pectoralis major, or sometimes given off from the lower border or from the tendon of the muscle itself, and passing to a variable insertion on the inner side of the arm, to the fascia, to the intermuscular septum, or even to the internal condyle of the humerus. The sternalis muscle is a fasciculus not unfrequently present on one or both sides, fleshy in the middle and tendinous at both ends, lying on the surface of the pec- toralis major, parallel to the margin of the sternum. It springs below, variably, from the sheath of the rectus and the fifth and sixth costal cartilages, and ter- minates above in the sterno-mastoid, or sternum and upper rib-cartilages, or more rarely in the pectoralis major. When two are present, they frequently unite in front of the manubrium. The pectoralis minor muscle arises from the upper margins and slightly from the external surfaces of three ribs near their cartilages— usually the third, fourth, and fifth—by tendinous slips which are blended with the anterior intercostal aponeuroses. Its fibres converge to a narrow tendon, which is inserted into the anterior half of the inner