SPINAL NERVES. 593 CERVICAL PLEXUS. The cervical plexus is formed by the anterior divisions of the first four cervical nerves, and distributes branches to some of the muscles of the neck, and to a portion of the integument of the head, neck, and chest. It is placed opposite the first four vertebrae, beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and rests against the middle scalenus muscle and the levator anguli scapulae. The disposition of the nerves in the plexus is easily recognised. Each nerve, except the first, divides into an ascending and a descending part; and these are united in communicating loops with the contiguous nerves. From the union of the second and third nerves, superficial branches are supplied to the head and neck ; and from the The nerves are separated from the spinal cord at their origin and are supposed to be viewed from before : Cl, the first cervical or sub- occipital nerve, and the lioinan numbers in succes- sion from II, to VIII, the cor- responding cervical nerves ; 1)1, the first, and II, and 111, the second and third dorsal nerves ; the origin of the posterior primary branch is shown in all the nerves ; of these p 2, indicates the great occipital from the second, and jo 3, the smallest occipital nerve from the third. Cervical plexus : 1, anterior primary branch of the first cervical nerve and loop of union with the second nerve ; 2, small occipital nerve ; 3, great auricular nerve; 3', superficial cervical nerve ; 3 n, communicating' branches to the descendens. noni from the second and. third ; 3 s, communicating to the spinal accessory from the third and fourth nerves; 4, supraclavicular nerves ; the loops or arches of com- munication between the four upper cervical nerves, and between the fourth and fifth, are shown; 4', phrenic nerve. Brachial plexus: V', to VIII', and D\ the five roots of the brachial plexus ; 5, the rhomboid nerve ; 5', suprascapular; 5", posterior thoracic ; 6, nerve to the subclavius muscle ; 7, 7, inner and outer anterior thoracic nerves ; 8, 8', 8'', sub- scapular nerves. In the larger nerves proceeding to the shoulder and arm from the plexus, those of the anterior divisions are represented of a lighter shade, those belong- ing to the posterior division darker ; ec, external cutaneous or musculo-cutaneous ; in, median ; u, ulnar ; ic, internal cutaneous ; w, nerve of Wrisberg; r, musculo-spiral ; c, circumflex ; i,i, intercostal nerves ; i', lateral branch of the same ; ih, intercosto-humeral nerve. Fig. 336. Fig. 336.— Diagrammatic OUTLIXE OF THE CERVICAL AND BRACHIAL PLEXUSES. (A. T.) I