119 TIIE TAESUS. tensor muscles of the toes and the peroneus tertius : the external broadest of all, somewhat hollowed at the upper part, turning below to the back of the malleolus, thus indicating the course of the peronei muscles, by which it is completely covered ; the posterior, which winds to the inner side of the bone in its lower half; in its upper third it i rough, giving origin to the soleus, the rest of its extent is occupied by the flexor longus hallucis ; and the internal, between the internal border and the interosseous line, is a fusiform surface over the upper two-thirds only of the shaft, and giving origin to the tibialis posticus ; it is often traversed by an oblique ridge which gives ■attachment to a tendinous septum in the muscle. The medullary foramen is small, placed on the in- ternal or posterior surface, about the middle, and is directed downwards. The head of the fibula projects under the skin at the outer and back part of the knee, behind and somewhat below the level of the prominent outer tuberosity of the tibia. The shaft is covered by muscles, except over the triangular surface above mentioned. The external malleolus descends lower and projects farther backwards than the internal, its point being nearer to the heel by about three-quarters of an inch. THE tahsus. The tarsus is composed of seven bones, viz., the calcaneum, astragalus, navicular, three cuneiform, and cuboid. The Calcaneum, or os calcis, is the largest bone of the foot. Pro- Fig. 100.—Eight foot, viewed from above, showing Fig. 100. ITS DORSAL ASPECT. (A. T.) $ a, navicular bone ; b, astragalus ; c, os calcis; d, its tuberosity ; c, internal cuneiform ; /, middle cuneiform; <j, external cuneiform; h, cuboid bone. I to V, the meta- tarsal bones; 1, 3, first and last phalanges of the great toe; 1, 2, 3, first, second, and third phalanges of the second toe. jecting downwards and backwards, it forms the heel. Above it articulates with the astragalus, and in front with the cuboid bone. Its prin- cipal axis extends forwards and outwards from its posterior extremity to the cuboid bone. The large posterior extremity, or tuberosity, presents interiorly two tubercles, which rest upon the ground, and the internal of which is the larger : its hinder surface is divided into an upper part, smooth and separated by a bursa from the tendo Achillis, a middle part for the attachment of the tendon, and a lower part, convex and roughened, continued below on to the tubercles, and covered by the thick skin and fatty pad of the heel. The part in front of the tuberosity forms a slightly constricted neck. The internal surface of the bone is deeply concave, and its concavity is surmounted in front by a flattened process, the sustentaculum tali, which projects inwards near the anterior extremity of the bone on