BONES OF THE THORAX. 28 from it by the slightly constricted neclc, is the tubercle, which is directed backwards, and presents a smooth surface for articulation with the transverse process of the inferior of the two vertebrae with which the head is connected, and, outside that, a roughness marking the insertion of the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The whole extent beyond the tubercle constitutes the body. It is laterally compressed, and broader from above downwards towards the anterior extremity. Outside the tubercle, over the most convex part of the body, is a rough line wdiich corresponds to the outer border of the erector spinae muscle, and. Fig. 23.—The first, sixth, and twelfth ribs of the right side. (A. T.) ^ A, the sixth seen from above and the outer side ; B, the same rib from below and within ; C, the first rib from above ; D, the twelfth rib from above. 1, the head in C & D, the intervertebral ridge in B; **, the costo-central facets ; 2, neck ; 3, tubercle, in B presenting the rough tubercle and the smooth facet for articulation with the transverse process ; 4, lower border with the ridge and subcostal groove ; 5, upper border ; 6, oval pit for the attachment of the costal cartilage ; 7, in C, the scalene tubercle, and behind it the smooth groove for the subclavian artery. marks tbe angle, so-called because at this point the rib takes a more sudden curve, its direction being now forwards and outwards. Tbe inferior border presents on its inner aspect the subcostal groove, in which lie the intercostal vessels and nerve, and which is best marked opposite the angle and disappears in front. The anterior extremity is hollowed at its tip into an oval pit, in which the costal cartilage is implanted. Inclination and curves.—There is a general inclination of the ribs downwards from the head to the anterior extremity, the slope being- greatest between the head and angle. The curve of the ribs is more marked towards the back part than in front, especially near the angle. Besides the main curves now mentioned the rib is slightly twisted on itself, so that while its surfaces are vertical behind, they are placed somewhat obliquely in front. Special characters of certain ribs.—The ribs increase in length from the first to the seventh or eighth, and decrease to the twelfth, so that the last is little longer, often even shorter, than the first. The first rib is the broadest, and after it the middle ones ; the twelfth is the narrowest. The distance of the angle from the tubercle increases gradually from above down. The first rib is not twisted, and is so placed that its surfaces look