n CERVICAL VERTEBRiE. The transverse processes are short and present at their extremities two tubercles, anterior and posterior. Each process is deeply grooved superiorly for a spinal nerve, and at its base is perforated vertically by a round foramen (vertebrarterial), through which in the upper six the vertebral artery and vein pass. It is united with the rest of the vertebra by two parts ; by the posterior, at the place of junction of the pedicle and lamina, like a dorsal transverse process ; by the anterior, to the body of the vertebra, in the same position as the heads of the ribs. The articular processes are placed at the extremities of a short, stout, vertical column of bone ; their flat articular surfaces are oblique, the superior looking backwards and upwards, the inferior forwards and downwards. The foremen is triangular with rounded angles, and larger than in the dorsal or lumbar vertebrae. The First Cervical Vertebra, or Atlas, differs remarkably from the others in the absence of a body and spinous process, having the form merely of a large ring with articular and transverse processes. Fig. 6.—Atlas, from above. (A. T.) J 1, tubercle on anterior arch ; 4, the poste- rior part of the ring, with 5, an indication of a spinous tubercle ; 4', the anterior part of the foramen, containing the odontoid process, and indicating in front of 4' the smooth sur- face on which the process moves in rotation ; 6, transverse process with a slight indication of division into two tubercles ; 7, condylar articular process ; + inside it indicates the rounded tubercle to which the transverse liga- ment is attached ; a, foramen in the trans- verse process ; b, groove on the posterior arch for the vertebral artery. The interior of the ring is wider posteriorly than anteriorly. Its posterior part corresponds to the foramina of the other vertebra ; its narrower anterior part is occupied by the odontoid process of the axis, and in the recent state is separated from the posterior by the transverse ligament. In front of the ring is the anterior arch, on the anterior aspect of which is a small tubercle, and on the posterior a smooth surface for articulation with the odontoid process. At the sides of the ring are the lateral masses, which are thick and strong, bearing the articular processes superiorly and interiorly, and extending outwards into the transverse processes. The articular processes differ from those of other vertebra in being situated in front of the places of exit of the nerves. The superior are oval, converging in front, with articular sur- faces concave from before backwards, and looking upwards and inwards; they are frequently divided by a transverse groove into two. At the inner margin of each is a smooth rounded tubercle, to which the trans- verse ligament is attached. The inferior articular processes are smaller than the superior, flat, nearly circular, looking downwards and slightly inwards. The posterior arch presents in the middle line a rough elevation, the rudiment of a spinous process ; at its junction with the lateral masses, it is hollowed out superiorly, so as to form a smooth transverse groove, in which lie the vertebral artery and first spinal (suboccipital) nerve ; the Fig. 6. 1 6