140 Fig. 113. Fig. 113. — A LU.MBAR VERTEBRA, SEEN FROM ARTICULATIONS OF TIIE TRUNK AND HEAD. laminae consist of white fibro-cartilage. The central part of the disc is a pulpy and elastic material which, when the pressure which confines ABOVE, WITH PART OF THE INTERVERTEBRAL DISC ADHERING TO THE BODY. (R. Quain.) A 1, 1, the fibrous lamirue arranged concentri- cally ; 2, the central soft substance. it is taken off by cutting through the intervertebral substance, rises up so as to assume a conical form. It is then seen to be of a lobate structure, and, examined under the microscope, exhibits a finely fibrous matrix, imbedded in which are seen numerous cells, which are not of the nature of cartilage cells, but are united together so as to form a reticular structure, which is closer in the centre of the pulp than towards the periphery. A thin cartilaginous layer covers the upper and lower surfaces of each vertebra and gives attachment to the disc, but it is incomplete towards the circumference, where the epiphyses of the body have been developed in it. It is now generally admitted that the pulp of the intervertebral disc is in part at least a remains of the chorda dorsalis ; homologous, therefore, with those larger vestiges of the chorda dorsalis which occupy the biconical cavities between the bodies of the vertebra; in fishes. According to Luschka, there is present in each disc a synovial cavity, and the lobes of the pulp are synovial villi, similar to those which are to be found in the knee and shoulder joints, but of larger size, and occupying the whole cavity ; and it is worthy of notice that in like manner secondary cavities, developed within the chorda dorsalis, are found in the inter- vertebral substance in many fishes. The same author also describes in the cervical region a synovial joint with cartilage covered surfaces, on each side, between the prominent lip of the upper surface of the body of one vertebra and the corresponding portion of the under surface of the body of the vertebra above. (Luschka, “ Die Halbgelenke des Menschlichen Korpers,” Berlin, 1858.) The discs are thickest, both absolutely, and relatively to the depth of Fig. 114.—Sagittal section THROUGH TWO LUMBAR VERTE- BRAE, SHOWING THE ARRANGE- MENT OP THE INTERVERTEBRAL disc. (R. Quain.) § 1, 2, the fibrous laminre; 3, the central soft substance : the capsule of the joint between the articular processes is represented. the vertebral bodies, in the lumbar region, and thinnest in the intervals from the third to the seventh dorsal vertebrae'. They form to- gether about a fourth of the length of the moveable part of the column. In the cervical and lumbar regions they are thicker in front than behind. Fig. 114.