MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 254 The short muscular fibres incline forwards, and end obliquely on the surface of the inferior tendon, which is broad and aponeurotic as it occupies the deep surface of the muscle, but becomes narrower and thicker as it proceeds downwards to be united with the subjacent tendon of the soleus in the tendo Achillis. Fig. 184. Fig. 184.—Superficial muscles of the leg, seem from behind (after Bourgery). §■ 1, lower part of the vastus externus ; 2, biceps flexor cruris ; 3, semitendinosus ; 4, semimembranosus ; 5, gracilis ; 6, sartorius ; 7, outer, and 8, inner head of the gastrocnemius ; 9, placed in the popliteal space, points to the plantaris ; 9', its thin tendon on the inner side of the tendo Achillis ; 10, 10, fibres of the soleus descending to the flat tendon which, joining with that of the gastrocnemius, forms, + +, the tendo Achillis ; 11, peroneus longus ; 12, peroneus brevis; 13, flexor longus digitorum ; 14, tibialis posticus; 15, is placed on the lower part of the fibula, and points to the lower fibres of the flexor longus hallucis, the tendon of which is seen descending over the tibia at 15'. The lower edge of each muscular part presents a convexity downwards ; and the inner head, besides being broader and thicker, also descends lower than the outer. A syno- vial bursa, usually communicating with the knee-joint, lies beneath the inner head of origin, and separates it from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. In the outer head a sesamoid fibro-cartilage is sometimes met with over the outer condyle of the femur, and it is occasionally found ossified. Relations. —The heads of the gastrocnemius muscle form the inferior boundaries of the popli- teal space, and are placed between the hamstring muscles : the peroneal nerve is lodged between the external head and the biceps. The gastrocnemius conceals the popliteus, plantaris and soleus muscles, with the popliteal vessels and internal popliteal nerve. The short saphenous vein is placed over, and the tibial communicating nerve descends in, the interval between its two heads. Varieties.—The gastrocnemius is not unfre- quently joined by a bundle of muscular fibres which arises separately from some part of the pop- liteal surface of the femur. This bundle has been seen passing between the popliteal artery and vein. Absence of the outer head or even of the whole muscle has also been observed. The soleus muscle arises externally from the posterior surface of the head and upper third of the shaft of the fibula; internally from the oblique line and the posterior border of the tibia, as far down as the middle of the bone ; and between the tibia and fibula, from a tendinous band which arches over the popliteal vessels and nerve. The muscular fibres spring in part from the bones, but to a much