BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 124 In the 7th or 8th year the rami of the ischium and pubis become completely united by bone. The parts which meet in the acetabulum are still separated by a triradiate strip of cartilage, which from its shape has been called the Y cartilage. This cartilage begins to be ossified from one or more centres about the age of puberty, and the intermediate bone or epiphysis so formed is united to the neighbouring parts about the 17th or 18th year. Epiphyses are likewise A, the condition of the bone at birth. Bone has spread from three nuclei into the ilium, ischium, and pubis, which meet in the cartilage of the acetabulum. B, from a child under six years of age. The rami of the ischium and pubis are farther ossified, but still separate. C, a bone of two or three years later, in which the rami are united. D, the bone of the right side from a person of about twenty years. Union has taken place in the acetabulum, and the additional epiphyses are seen in the crest of the ilium, the anterior inferior spine, the ischial tuberosity, and the margin of the symphysis pubis. In A, B, and C, 1, ilium; 2, ischium; 3, pubis; below D, 4, separated Y-shaped piece formed of several fragments which begin to ossify about the 14th year, and often unite into this form before the completion of the acetabulum ; 5, epiphysis of the crest; 6, that of the tuberosity of the ischium ; 7, that of the symphysis pubis ; 8, that of the* anterior inferior spine of the ilium. formed in the cartilage of the crest of the ilium, the tuberosity of the ischium, the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and the symphysis pubis. These begin to ossify soon after puberty, and unite with the main bone from the 23rd to the 25th year. The pelvis of the foetus and young child is of very small capacity in propor- tion to the size of the body, and those viscera which are afterwards contained for the most part in the true pelvis occupy a part of the abdominal cavity. The inclination of the pelvis is considerably greater in early life than in the adult. The femur is developed from one principal ossific centre for the shaft which appears in the 7th week, and from four epiphyses, the centres for which appear in the following order;—A single nucleus for the lower extremity appears shortly before birth, one for the head appears in the 1st year, one for the great tro- chanter in the 4th year, and one for the small trochanter in the 13th or 14th year. These epiphyses become united to the shaft in an order the reverse of that of their appearance. The small trochanter is united about the 17th year, the great trochanter about the 18th year, the head from the 18th to the 19th year, and the lower extremity soon after the 20th year. The neck of the femur is formed by extension of ossification from the shaft. The patella is formed in the 3rd month by a deposit of cartilage in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor cruris muscle. In this cartilage ossification Fig. 102. li Fig. 102.—Ossification of the hip-bone (R. Quain).