14? Fig. 123.—Horizontal section on ligament ; 6, interosseous or middle ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIES. Fig. 123. and ligaments, and by a longer ligament to the transverse process of the vertebra above. The posterior costo-transverse ligament is a distinct band extending outwards from the posterior part of the summit of the trans- verse process to the rough external part of the tubercle of the rib. The middle or interosseous costo-transverse ligament, consists of a series of short parallel fibres, which unite the neck of the rib to the anterior surface of the contiguous transverse process. These fibres are A DORSAL VERTEBRA, WITH THE ADJACENT PORTIONS OF TWO RIBS. (R. Quain.) f 1, the rib ; 2, transverse pro- cess ; 3, anterior costo-central liga- ment ; 5, posterior costo-transverse costo-transverse ligament. seen on removing by hori- zontal section a portion of the rib and transverse pro- cess, and forcibly drawing the one from the other. The superior costo-transverse ligament, anterior or long, consists of fasciculi of fibres, passing from the neck of the rib obliquely upwards and outwards to the lower margin of the transverse process next above it. Its internal margin is thickened and free ; externally it is continued into the posterior intercostal aponeurosis, which occupies the hinder portion of the intercostal space. This ligament does not exist in the articula- tion of the first rib. There are no synovial joints between the lowest two ribs and the transverse processes, and the posterior and middle costo-transverse liga- ments are represented by a single band. The costo-steknal articulations, situated between the anterior extremities of the cartilages of the sternal ribs and the corresponding fossae in the margins of the sternum, are, with the exception of the first, small synovial joints, surrounded by short capsules, which are most developed in front and behind, and thus form anterior and posterior liga- ments. The fibres of the anterior ligament radiate from the extremity of the cartilage to the anterior surface of the sternum, where they inter- lace with those of the opposite side, and are blended with the tendinous fibres of origin of the peetoralis major muscle ; the fibres of the posterior ligament are similarly disposed, but are not so thick or numerous. In the second articulation the synovial cavity is divided into two by a short inlerarticiilar ligament, passing horizontally between the end of the costal cartilage and the cartilaginous layer uniting the manubrium to the body of the sternum ; and similar divisions sometimes exist in the succeeding joints. The synovial cavity is frequently wanting in the articulations ■of the sixth and seventh cartilages. The cartilage of the first rib is almost always directly united to the sternum. A variable fasciculus of fibres connecting the cartilage of the seventh rib, and sometimes likewise that of the sixth, with the xiphoid cartilage, is called the < osto-xiphoid ligament. Connection of the cartilages one with another.—The inter-