PUDIC NERVE. C37 external sphincter and levator ani muscles, the transversus perinei, ischio- cavernosus and bulbo-cavernosus. One branch passes inwards through the Fig. 358.—Right side up the Fig. 358. INTERIOR OF THE MALE PELVIS, WITH THE PRINCIPAL NERVES displayed (after Hirschfeld and Leveille). t The left wall has been removed as far as the sacrum behind and the symphysis pubis in front; the viscera and the lower part of the right levator ani have been re- moved ; a, lower end of the aorta ; «', placed on the fifth lumbar ver- tebra, between the two common iliac arteries, of which the left is cut short ; b, right external iliac vessels ; c, symphysis pubis ; d, the divided pyriformis mnscle, close to the left auricular surface of the, sacrum ; e, bulb of the urethra covered by the bulbo- cavernosus muscle; the mem- branous part of the urethra cut short is seen passing into it ; 1, on the crest of the ilium, the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh pass- ing over the iliacus muscle ; 2, on the psoas muscle, the genito-crural nerve; 3, obturator nerve; 4, 4, on the lumbo-sacral cords ; that of the right side points to the gluteal artery cut short ; 4b superior gluteal nerve ; 5, on the right sacral plexus, points by four lines to the anterior divisions of the four upper sacral nerves, which, with the lumbo-sacral cord, form the plexus ; 5', placed on the fifth piece of the sacrum, points to the fifth sacral nerve ; 5", visceral branches from the third and fourth sacral nerves ; 6, placed on the lower part of the coccyx, below the coccygeal nerves ; 7, the nerve of the levator ani muscle : 8, inferior liannorrhoidal nerve ; 9, nerve of the obturator internus ; 10, pudic nerve ; 10', muscular branches of the perineal nerve ; 10", superficial perineal nerves, and on the scrotum the distribution of these nerves and the inferior pudendal nerve ; 11, right dorsal nerve of the penis ; 11', the nerve on the left crus penis which is cut short ; 12, small sciatic nerve ; 12', its inferior pudendal branch ; 13, on the transverse process of the fifth lum- bar vertebra, the lowest lumbar sympathetic ganglion ; 14, on the first piece of the sacrum, the upper sacral sympathetic ganglia ; between 14 and 6, are seen the remaining ganglia and sympathetic nervous cords, as well as their union with the sacral and coc- cygeal nerves, and at 6, the lowest ganglion or ganglion impar. bulbo-cavernosus muscle, and divides into slender filaments which pene- trate the corpus spongiosum and reach the mucous membrane of the urethra. (c) The dorsal nerve of the penis is the deepest branch of the pudic nerve, and accompanies the pudic artery in its course through the deep perineal fascia (pp. 335 and 457), and between the layers of the suspensory ligament to the dorsum of the penis, along which it passes as far as the glaus, where it divides into filaments for the supply of that part. While passing through the deep perineal fascia, it gives fine twigs for the supply of the constrictor urethrae muscle ; and on the dorsum of the penis, it is joined by branches of the sympathetic system, and sends outwards numerous offsets to the integument on the upper surface and sides of that organ. Some filaments also penetrate the corpus cavernosum.