257 FLEXOR LONGUS DIGITORUM. The flexor longus cligitorum pedis muscle, or flexor perforans, arises from the inner portion of the posterior surface of the tibia (see m Fig. 186.—Deep posterior muscles op the leg. Fig. 186. (A. T.) k a, popliteal surface of the femur ; b, bare surface / / of the upper third of the tibula ; from which the /" soleus muscle has been removed ; c, internal malleo- / ( lus ; il, external malleolus ; e, tuberosity of the os calcis, with a part of the tendo Achillis inserted into it, and the plantaris on its inner side ; 1, inner head of the gastrocnemius, cut short ; 2, outer head ; 3, plantaris ; 4, tendon of the semimem- branosus muscle near its insertion, seen spreading in three portions, viz., to the tibia, to the popliteal fascia, and to the posterior ligament ; 5, tendon of the biceps inserted into the head of the fibula ; 6, popliteus muscle ; 7, upper part of the origin of the soleus from tiie fibula, cut short; 7', line of its tibial origin ; between these figures is seen the per- foration in the upper part of the interosseous mem- brane ; 8, tibialis posticus ; 8', its tendon, passing between the flexor longus digitorum and the tibia ; 9, flexor longus digitorum ; 9', its tendon, with that of the tibialis posticus, passing behind the internal malleolus ; 10, flexor longus hallucis ; 10', placed beside its tendon, where it passes over the tibia and astragalus ; 11, peroneus longus ; 11', its tendon behind that of the peroneus brevis, passing down behind the external malleolus ; 12, peroneus brevis. p. 116), its attachment extending oyer the middle two-fonrths of the length of the bone; it likewise receives fibres from a thin aponeurosis which covers the tibialis posticus, and is attached to the inner border of the fibula, and from which the flexor » Wf/'Wv/ longus hallucis also takes origin. Its ten- f mmmt'A don descends in a groove behind thfe in- ternal malleolus, lying outside that of the tibialis posticus, and invested by a distinct fibrous and synovial sheath ; it is then directed obliquely forwards and outwards into the sole of the foot, crossing be- low the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis interiorly, to which it is con- nected by a tendinous slip; it there divides into four parts, which pass forwards to > j be inserted into the terminal phalanges of the four smaller toes. Each digital tendon enters a fibrous sheath on the toe to which it belongs, perforates the corre- sponding tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum, and is invested with synovial membrane and connected by vincula ac- cessoria to the phalanges ; the whole arrangement being essentially the same as that which has been already described in the fingers (see p. 217). VOL. i. s -12