88 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. spinous to the infraspinous fossa; its position is also marked superiorly by the notch in the upper border. The coracoid process, thick, strong, and hook-like, rises for a short distance ahnost vertically from the upper border of the head, and then bending at a right angle, is directed forwards and slightly outwards. Its superior surface, towards the base, is rough and uneven, giving origin to the coraco-clavicular ligament; on its outer border is attached the coraco-acromial ligament, at its extremity the coraco-brachialis muscle and short head of the biceps, and on the inner edge the pectoralis minor. The borders of the scapula are three in number. The superior border is the shortest; it extends from the superior angle outwards and down- wards to the coracoid processs, at the base of which it presents a rounded suprascapular notch, which is converted into a foramen by a ligament or occasionally by a spiculum of bone, and is traversed by the suprascapular nerve. The axillary border is the thickest; at the upper end, below the glenoid cavity, it presents a strong rough mark, above an inch long, to which the long head of the triceps muscle is attached; and below this there is usually a slight groove, where the dorsal branch of the sub- scapular artery passes backwards ; on the ventral aspect of this edge in the greater part of its length is a marked groove in which a considerable part of the subscapularis muscle arises. The vertebral border, called also the base, is the longest of the three, and is divisible into three parts, viz., a short one opposite the triangular surface of origin of the promi- nent border of the spine, and the portions above and below that space, both of which incline outwards as they recede from the spine. The upper part gives attachment to the levator anguli scapulae muscle, the middle to the rhomboideus minor, and the lower to the rhomboideus major muscle. The body of the scapula is in great part, thin and translucent, and contains little cancellated tissue. The head, the coracoid and acromion processes, the prominent border of the spine, and the thick rib along the axillary border, derive their greater thickness and strength from in- creased thickness of the compact bony substance in some parts, and from cancellated tissue in others. Vascular foramina pierce the upper and lower surfaces of the spine, and others are to be found on the anterior surface of the bone, near the neck. The subcutaneous parts of the scapula are the free border of the spine in nearly the whole of its length, the upper surface of the acromion, and a small part of the vertebral border in its lower half; the superior and axillary borders are entirely concealed by the muscles. The coracoid process projects in front beyond the clavicle, and can be readily felt inside the head of the humerus, but can be seen only in very thin persons. With the arm hanging by the side the scapula covers the ribs from the second to the seventh inclusive, sometimes the eighth, and the root of the spine is on a level with the interval between the third and fourth dorsal spines ; but it is to be remembered that the bone changes its position with every movement of the arm. THE HUMERUS. The humerus or arm-bone extends from the shoulder to the elbow, where it articulates with both bones of the forearm. It is divisible into the superior extremity, including the head, neck, and great and small