MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 264 Relations.—This muscle is in great part covered by the abductor hallucis and the common flexors of the toes, while the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis runs in the groove between its heads. Varieties.—The origin of the flexor brevis hallucis is subject to considerable variation : it often receives fibres from the os calcis or long plantar ligament, and the attachment to the cuboid is sometimes wanting. The muscle has been seen sending a slip to the first phalanx of the second toe. The adductor hallucis (add. pollicis pedis), placed obliquely in the sole of the foot, and forming a thick fleshy mass, arises from the tarsal extremities of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the sheath of the peroneus longus muscle ; narrowing as it passes forwards, it is inserted, conjointly with the external head of the flexor brevis hallucis, into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Fig. 191.— Third layer of muscles of ran sole. J cl, tendon of peroneus longus; e, long plantar ligament; 6, flexor brevis hallucis; 7, adductor hallucis ; 8, transversus pedis ; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti; 10, 10, second and third plantar interosseous muscles; 11, 11, third and fourth dorsal interosseous muscles. Relations.—At its inner side it is connected with the flexor brevis hallucis ; its deep surface rests upon the second, third and fourth meta- tarsal bones and the intervening interosseous muscles. The deep parts of the external plantar artery and nerve pass inwards beneath its outer border. Varieties.—A slip has been observed from this muscle also to the base of the first phalanx of the second toe. The opponents hallucis is a muscle frequently found (Macalister). It usually comes off as a slip from the adductor, and is inserted into the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It occurs in some apes. The transversus pedis consists of nar- row fasciculi of fleshy fibres, placed trans- versely under cover of the flexor tendons, and arising from the inferior metatarso- phalangeal ligaments of the three outer toes, and from the transverse metatarsal ligament. The fibres of the muscle pass transversely inwards, and are inserted in union with the adductor hallucis into the first phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—Superficially it is crossed by the flexor tendons and by the digital nerves ; its deep surface rests upon the heads of the metatarsal bones, the inter- osseous muscles and the digital vessels. Varieties.—The slip from the little toe is frequently absent: absence of other slips or of the entire muscle has also been recorded. This muscle is described by many anatomists as a second head of the adductor hallucis. The flexor brevis minimi digiti arises by tendinous fibres from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the sheath of the pero- neus longus, and terminates in a tendon which is inserted into the base and external border of the first phalanx of the little toe.