C27 ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. Anterior crural nerve.—This nerve is the largest branch of the lumbar plexus, and is derived principally from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, but in part also from the second. Emerging from the outer border of the psoas muscle, near its lower part, it descends into the thigh in the groove between that muscle and the iliacus, and, therefore, to the outer side of the femoral blood-vessels. Below Poupart’s ligament, the nerve becomes flattened out and divides into two parts, one of which is mainly cutaneous, while the other is distributed for the most part to muscles. A. Branches in the trunk—The branches given from the anterior crural nerve within the abdomen are few and of small size. (a) The iliacus receives three or four small branches, which are directed outwards from the nerve to the fore part of the muscle. (6) The nerve of the femoral artery is a small branch which divides into numerous filaments upon the upper part of that vessel. It some- times arises lower down than usual, in the thigh. It may, on the other hand, be found to take origin above the ordinary position from the third lumbar nerve. Beck and Kauber describe a filament passing from this nerve, in company with the medullary artery, to the femur. B. Terminal branches.—From the principal or terminal divisions of the nerve the remaining branches take their rise as follows. From the superficial or anterior division cutaneous branches are given to the fore part of the thigh, and to the inner side of the leg ; they are the middle and internal cutaneous nerves. Two muscles, the sartorius and the pectineus, receive their nerves from this group. From the deep or posterior division branches proceed, to supply the extensor muscle of the knee, and also one cutaneous nerve, the internal saphenous. («) Middle cutaneous nerve.—The middle cutaneous nerve either pierces the fascia lata in two parts about four inches below Poupart’s ligament, or as one trunk which soon divides into two branches. These branches descend on the fore part of the thigh to the front and inner side of the patella. After or before the nerve has become subcutaneous, it communicates with the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and also with the internal cutaneous. This nerve, or the outermost of its branches, frequently pierces the upper part of the sartorius muscle. (b) Interned cutaneous nerve.—The internal cutaneous nerve gives branches to the skin on the inner side of the thigh, and the upper part of the leg ; but the extent to which it reaches varies with the presence or absence of the “ occasional cutaneous” branch of the obturator nerve. Lying beneath the fascia lata, this nerve descends obliquely over the upper part of the femoral artery. It divides either in front of that vessel, or at the inner side, into two branches (one anterior, the other posterior), which pierce the fascia separately. Before dividing, this nerve gives off two or three cutaneous twigs, which accompany the upper part of the long saphenous vein. The highest of these perforates the fascia near the saphenous opening, and reaches down to the middle of the thigh. The others appear beneath the skin lower down by the side of the vein ; one, larger than the rest, passes through the fascia about the middle of the thigh, and extends to the knee. In some instances, these small branches spring directly from the anterior crural nerve, and they often communicate with each other. s s 2