238 MUSCLES OF TIIE LOWER LIMB. ductors when the Rip is flexed. TAe quadratus fnmoris rotates tRe thigh outwards and assists in adducting. TRe obturator externns is also principally an external rotator, but it is farther a flexor and adductor of tRe tRigR, bringing the’>upper- most of tlie two limbs into position when we cross the tRigRs in sitting. It supports tRe Rip-joint posteriorly and inferiorly. POSTERIOR FEMORAL OR HAMSTRING MUSCLES. At the back of the thigh are three long flexor muscles of the knee- joint ; viz., the biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus. The biceps flexor cruris muscle consists of two parts, arising one from the hip-bone, the other from the femur, which unite inferiorly to terminate on the fibula. The long head arises by a tendon common to it and the semitendinosus from the inner impression on the upper part of the ischial tuberosity, receiving also some fibres from the great sacro-sciatic ligament; the short head arises from the outer lip of the linea aspera in its whole extent, from the upper two-thirds of the external supracondylar line, and from the adjacent external inter- muscular septum. The muscular fibres from both heads end in a common tendon, which is inserted into the upper and outer part of the head of the fibula by two portions, which embrace the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Some of the fibres of the tendon, passing forwards and inwards, are inserted into the outer tuberosity of the tibia, and from the posterior border others are given off to the fascia of the leg. Relations.—TRe upper end of tlie biceps is covered by the gluteus maximus; in the rest of its extent the muscle is subcutaneous. It lies upon the semimem- branosus, the great sciatic nerve, and the adductor magnus; its inner border is in contact with the semitendinosus and semimembranosus, and at its lower end it forms the upper and outer boundary of the popliteal space. A bursa is gene- rally present between the tendon and the external lateral ligament, and there is sometimes another between the long Read and the origin of the semimembranosus. Varieties.—TRe short head may be absent, or there may be an additional head arising from the ischial tuberosity, or from the linea aspera, or from the inner supra- condylar ridge of the femur, or from various other parts. A slip has been found passing from the long head to the gastrocnemius or the tendo Achillis. The semitendinosus muscle, closely united at its origin with the long head of the biceps, arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, and from the tendon common to it with the biceps for about three inches; it descends on the back of the thigh, and terminates in the lower third in a long, rounded, and slender tendon, which passes along the inner side of the popliteal space, resting on the semimembranosus, and curves forwards to be inserted in an expanded form into the upper part of the inner surface of the tibia, a considerable process being sent from its lower border to the fascia of the leg. There the tendon is on the same plane with, but below that of the gracilis, both being under cover of the sartorius, and a bursa separates the three tendons from the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The belly of the muscle is traversed about its middle by a thin oblique tendinous intersection. The semimembranosus muscle arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, above and to the outside of the origin of the biceps and semi- tendinosus, by a strong flattened tendon which is grooved on its posterior surface for the reception of the common tendon of those two muscles. The tendon of origin is prolonged downwards on the outer side of the muscle for