450 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. Relation to veins.—The left common iliac vein lies to the inner side of and below the left artery. On the right side there are three veins in proximity to the artery ; the right common iliac vein lying behind the lower part of the vessel, the left common iliac vein crossing behind it above its middle, and the inferior vena cava, resulting from the union of the two others, being on the right side of the artery at its upper end. The common iliac artery usually does not furnish any named collateral branches. A few minute twigs are given to the psoas muscle, to the ureter, and to the neighbouring lymphatic glands. Varieties.—The place of division of these arteries is subject to great variety. In two-thirds of a large number of cases, it ranged between the middle of the last lumbar vertebra and the upper margin of the sacrum ; in one case in eight it was above, and in one case in six it was below that space. Most frequently the left artery was found to divide lower than the right (R. Quain). The length varies in most instances between an inch and a half and three inches, but it has been seen in some rare cases less than half an inch, and as long as four inches and a half. When longer than usual the artery is generally more or less tortuous. In two instances absence of one common iliac artery has been observed, the internal and external iliacs of that side springing directly from the end of the aorta (on the right side by Cruveilliier, “ Anatomie,” 5th Ed., iii., 150; on the left side by W. J. Walsham, St. Bartholomew’s Hosp. Rep. xvii., 1881). Branches.—The common iliac artery occasionally gives off the middle sacral, ilio-lumbar or upper lateral sacral artery, more rarely a lumbar or an accessoiy renal artery. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. The common iliac artery may be reached in an operation by dividing the abdominal muscles in the lumbar region. A semilunar incision, having its convexity turned outwards, may be carried from a point an inch and a half to the inner side of the anterior superior iliac spine, upwards and somewhat out- wards, to near the lower margin of the thorax. The external oblique, internal oblique, and transversalis muscles are successively divided, together with the thin transversalis fascia ; the peritoneum, to which the ureter and spermatic vessels adhere closely, is next separated from the lateral abdominal wall and the surface of the psoas until the artery is reached; the areolar sheath is then scraped through and the ligature applied, the needle being passed on either side from right to left. It seldom happens that the common iliac artery is too short to allow of the application of a ligature, but if it were found to be less than an inch and a half in length, the external and internal iliac trunks might be secured close to the bifurcation. Collateral circulation.—After ligature of the common iliac artery, blood is conveyed to the external iliac trunk through the anastomoses of the circumflex iliac with the lumbar arteries, and of the epigastric with the internal mammary ; to the internal iliac through the anastomoses of the middle with the lateral sacral arteries, of the lumbar with the ilio-lumbar, of the superior with the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal, and of the obturator and the arteries supplied to the pelvic viscera with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side. INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (II). The internal iliac artery (hypogastric) extends from the bifurcation of the common iliac artery downwards towards the great sacro-sciatic fora- men, near the upper border of which it divides into branches. It is gene- rally from an inch to an inch and a half in length, and is smaller than the external iliac in the adult, but the reverse in the foetus. At its origin, the artery lies near the inner border of the psoas muscle ; lower down, it