072 SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. tinned into the clavicular head, which is, however, broader and less salient than the sternal origin. A slight depression usually corresponds to an interval between the two heads, and the lower boundary of the depression is formed by the somewhat prominent inner extremity of the clavicle. A needle thrust backwards in this depression and in contact with the end of the clavicle would reach, on the right side, the bifurca- tion of the innominate artery, on the left, the common carotid artery as it passes into the neck. The carotid arteries are situated just beneath the border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, their position being indicated more exactly by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The common carotid artery reaches upwards as far as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; above this level, the external and internal carotids are placed side by side, the external being the more anterior, until they pass beneath the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the position of which may be indicated by a line drawn from the mastoid process to the fore part of the hyoid bone. If deep pressure be made in the situation of the great vessels opposite the cricoid cartilage, the prominent anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra (carotid tubercle) can be felt, and the common carotid artery may be compressed against it. This is a little below the spot at which the omo-hyoid muscle crosses the carotid artery, and indicates also the place where the inferior thyroid artery turns inwards, and the vertebral artery usually enters upon its course through the foramina in the transverse processes. The lingual artery runs forwards from the external carotid along the upper margin of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and the hypoglossal nerve takes a similar course close above the artery. At a slightly higher level, the occipital and facial arteries leave the external carotid, the former passing up to the transverse process of the atlas, which may be felt just below and a little in front of the tip of the mastoid process, the latter taking a winding course above the submaxillary gland to the anterior border of the masseter muscle. The superior thyroid artery, arising below the lingual, runs downwards and inwards near the back of the thyroid cartilage, and sends its crico-thyroid branch across the crico- thyroid space. The line of the internal jugular vein is just external to that of the carotid arteries ; the facial vein, more superficial than the artery, courses from the anterior border of the masseter downwards and backwards, to join the main trunk about opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; the middle thyroid vein crosses the common carotid artery near the level of the cricoid cartilage, and the large inferior thyroid veins are situated deeply on the front of the trachea. More superficially placed, and often showing through the skin, are the anterior jugular vein near the middle line, and a communicating branch, frequently of large size, between the facial and anterior jugular veins, lying along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The right and left anterior jugular veins arc generally connected by a cross branch of con- siderable size at the bottom of the suprasternal notch, close to the upper border of the manubrium, and the lower part of each vein is then directed outwards behind the origin of the sterno-mastoid, so that great care must, be exercised, in order not to wound the vessel, in dividing this muscle for the cure of wry-neck.