356 ARCH OF THE AORTA. ment of the left fourth branchial arch : in birds it is the right fourth arch which forms the permanent aorta ; and in reptiles both the right and left fourth arches remain patent. Here it may be proper to call attention to the complete lateral transposition, i.c., from right to left and vice versa, which affects the aortic arch and pulmonary vessels, as well as the other parts of the heart, when transposed with or without the transposition of other viscera. Several cases of this kind have been recorded by various observers, and they are usually unattended with any disturbance of the functions or other unnatural condition of structure. There is, in fact, only a change of position, which may be best described by comparing it to that in which the natural parts would appear if viewed by reflection from a mirror. Although this transposition gives rise to no perceptible lesion of function, yet from the direction of the apex of the heart towards the right, and other differences from the natural position, its existence is capable of being ascertained during life Fig. 229.—Diagram of the fcetal aortio ARCHES, SHOWING THEIR TRANSFORMATION INTO THE PERMANENT VESSELS OF THE mammal (after Ratlike). (A. T.) A, to the right of the primitive arterial bulb, now divided into aortic and pulmonary stems, the latter in front; a, the right, a', the left aortic root ; A', the descending aorta; on the right side, the double out- lines, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, indicate the five primi- tive branchial vascular arches ; on the left side, I, II, III, IV, mark the seat of the four branchial or pharyngeal clefts; c, is between the common carotid arteries ; ee, the external carotids ; ci, the right, ci', the left internal carotid; s, the right, s', the left subcla- vian ; v, the right, v', the left vertebral ; the right fourth arch forms the innominate trunk, and passes on to v and s, the right vertebral and subclavian arteries; the left fourth arch passes to a, as the permanent aortic arch ; P, pulmonary arteries springing from the fifth left arch, which at d is continued into the left aortic root as ductus arteriosus ; pn, right, and pit', left pneumo-gastric nerve, The permanent systemic arteries are repre- The aortic arch has been observed completely double in some rare cases, which admit of being explained, on the supposition that both the right and left fourth branchial arches have remained pervious and undergone development. The ascending aorta, having the usual relation to the pulmonary artery, divides above into two branches which pass backwards, embracing the trachea and oesophagus, and join on the left side of the spine to form the descending aorta. Each arch gives origin to the common carotid and subclavian arteries of its own side, in the order mentioned. Examples of this condition have been recorded by Hommel, Curnow, and some others. In one remarkable instance, however, known as Malacarne’s case, the arrangement was different, and seems to have been the result of some unexplained mode of development of the arterial stem. The ascending aorta divided close to the heart, and the two arches embraced the trunk of the pulmonary artery, as well as the trachea and oesophagus ; and each gave rise successively to a subclavian, an external, and an internal carotid artery, an arrangement which is inconsistent with the known modes of development of the branchial vascular arches. The existence of a right aortic arch, that is, one passing to the right of the trachea and gullet, instead of the usual left arch, is easily explained on the sup- Fig.229. which have been arlded to Rathke’s figure, sented in deep shade.