328 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. descend from the outer attachment, and only a few from the inner, spread out inferiorly and are embedded in the substance of a fascia termed cremasteric, which adheres to the fascia propria of the testicle. Sometimes the only fibres developed are a bundle descending from the outer attachment. In the female there may he almost constantly detected a few fibres des- cending on the round ligament of the uterus, which correspond with the last- mentioned fibres of the cremaster muscle of the male. Fig. 216. Fig. 216.—Diagram op a transverse section of the wail of the abdomen, to SHOW THE CONNECTIONS OF THE LUMBAR FASCIA, AND THE SHEATH OF THE RECTUS MUSCLE. (A. T.) i A, at the level of the third lumbar vertebra ,* B, the fore part, at a few inches above the pubis. a, spinous process, b, body of the third lumbar vertebra ; 1, external oblique muscle ; 2, internal oblique ; 3, transversalis ; 4, a dotted line to mark the position of the transversalis fascia ; 5, 5, in A, anterior and posterior parts of the sheath of the rectus, formed by the aponeurosis of the internal oblique splitting at the outer edge of the muscle, 2' ; 6, rectus abdominis ; 7, anterior layer of the lumbar fascia, passing in front of the quadratus lumboriun to the anterior surface of the transverse process; 8, psoas magnus and parvus muscles ; 9, 9', erectores spin® muscles ; 9 + , middle layer of the lumbar fascia (posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis) passing to the extremity of the transverse process ; 10, 10+ , posterior layer of the lumbar fascia, connected with the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior : in A, at the sheath of the rectus, the aponeurosis of the external oblique is seen to unite in front with the sheath, while that of the transversalis is seen uniting with it behind : in B, the section is taken below the semilunar fold of Douglas, and all the tendons pass in front of the rectus at 5'; the + near this, and in a similar place in A, marks the middle line, and the place of the union of the several aponeuroses in the linea alba. The transversalis abdominis muscle, subjacent to the internal oblique, arises from the inner surface of the cartilages of the six lower ribs by fleshy slips which interdigitate with the costal attachments of the