36 EOXES OF THE HEAD. Fig. 31. Fig. 31.—Frontal bone from sharp or squamous edge, with a slightly fluted surface directed outwards and overlapped at its anterior extremity by the great wing of the sphenoid, and behind that by the squamous part of the temporal bone ; its posterior part is serrated, and articulates with the mastoid portion of the temporal. The anterior border is slightly overlapped by the frontal bone above, but overlaps the edge of that bone interiorly. Varieties.—The parietal foramen varies greatly ; frequently it is absent on one or both sides; in extreme cases it has been seen more than half an inch in diameter. As a rare occurrence the parietal bone is divided by a suture into an upper and a lower part. Considerable depressions sometimes occur on the outer surface, in which the bone is not thicker than paper ; usually on both sides and symmetrical. THE FRONTAL BONE. The frontal bone, arching upwards and backwards above the orbits, forms the fore part of the cranium ; it likewise presents interiorly two thin horizontal laminae, the orbital plates, which form the roofs of the orbits and are separated by a mesial excavation, the ethmoidal notch. It articulates with twelve bones, viz., posteriorly with the parietals and sphenoid ; outside the orbits with the malars ; and between the orbits, from before backwards, with the nasal, superior maxillary, lachrymal, and ethmoid bones. Anterior surface.—The part forming the greatest convexity of the forehead on each side is called the frontal eminence. It is separated by a slight depression below from the superciliary ridge, a curved elevation of varying prominence above the margin of the orbit. Between the superciliary ridges is the surface called glabella. The margin of BEFORE, SHOWING ITS EXTER- NAL SURFACE. (A. T.) ^ 1, frontal eminence ; 2, nasal spine, and above this the ser- rated surface for articulation of the nasal and superior maxil- lary bones; 3 to 4, orbital arch ■—3, internal, and 4, external angular process; 5, supraorbital notch; 6, glabella; 7, super- ciliary ridge ; 8, temporal crest, and behind this the temporal surface. the orbit, the orbital arch, is most defined towards its outer part; it presents towards its inner third the supraorbital notch, some- times a foramen, which transmits the supraorbital nerve and artery. The ■extremities of the orbital arch point downwards, and form the internal and external angular processes. The internal is but slightly marked, it meets the lachrymal bone ; the external is strong and projecting, and articulates with the malar bone. The temporal crest springs from the external process, and arches upwards and backwards to be continued into