113 THE FEMUR. The small trochanter, a conical eminence, projects and inner aspect of the bone at the junc- tion of the neck with the shaft; its rounded summit gives attachment to the tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles. The ( neck is separated from the shaft ante- Fig. 94.—Femur of a male from eeiiind. (A. T.) ^ 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, x , 10, and 13, as in the preceding figure ; 2', pit on the head for the interarticular ligament of the hip-joint ; 3', the back of the neck, showing a slight groove for the obturator extemus muscle as it passes over the capsular ligament and neck ; between 4 and 5, the posterior intertro- chanteric ridge; 14, gluteal ridge; 15, inner divi- sion of upper end of linea aspera ; between this and the gluteal ridge is seen the line leading to small trochanter; 16, linea aspera; 17, popliteal sur- face ; 18, intercondylar notch ; 19, foramen for the medullary artery. riorly by the anterior intertrochanteric line, a broad rough, line commencing at the tubercle of the femur and directed obliquely downwards and inwards a finger’s breadth in front of the small trochanter; it indicates the attachment of the thick anterior portion of the cap- sular ligament of the hip and the upper border of the united crureus and vastus internus muscles. The shaft is arched from above down- wards, with the convexity forwards. It is expanded at its upper and lower ends. Towards the centre it is nearly cylindri- cal, but with a tendency to the prismatic form, due to the projection of the linea aspera behind, and a slight flattening of the surface in front; so that it may con- veniently be regarded as presenting an anterior and two lateral surfaces, although definite lines separating the surfaces clo not exist. All three surfaces, smooth and uniform, are covered by the crureus and vasti muscles. The lateral surfaces in the middle of their extent approach one another behind, being only separated by the linea aspera. The linea aspera is a prominent ridge, extending along the cen- tral third of the shaft posteriorly, and bifurcating above and below. It presents two sharp margins or lips and a flat in- terval. The external lip is prolonged up to the great trochanter, and in its course is strongly marked for about three inches where the VOL. I. from the posterior Fig. 94. §m 1 vs JpT / v ■ in if7 W, fry \ M - - y hli:L 35- 10- H \ a if* * yy ! vt.I ill t i ha ill i If | ! M\ !; it ni w i m\ mi w 23 1 gluteus maximus is i