LUMBAR ARTERIES. 447 ring with the vas deferens i; 8, inferior mesenteric artery; 9, lumbar arteries; 9', a lowest lumbar artery, rising from the middle sacral 1', (see varieties of the latter vessel); 10, 10', right and left common iliac arteries; 11, 11, between the external and internal iliac arteries ; 12, left epigastric artery; 13, circumflex iliac artery. ones. Continuing outwards between the abdominal muscles, the vessel ramifies in their substance, and the several arteries form anastomoses with one another, with the branches of the epigastric and internal mam- mary in front, with the terminal branches of the lowest intercostals above, and with offsets of the ilio-lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries below. (b) The dorsal branch, like the posterior branch of an intercostal artery, gives oft' immediately after its origin an offset to the spinal canal, and then, proceeding backwards between the transverse processes with the posterior division of the corresponding spinal nerve, divides into smaller vessels which are distributed to the muscles and integument of the back. The spinal branch enters the spinal canal through the corresponding intervertebral foramen, gives an offset which supplies the dura mater and ascends along the roots of the nerves to the spinal cord (see p. 393), and divides into two principal branches which are distributed to the bones and ligaments in the following manner :—one curves upwards on the back of the body of the vertebra above, near to the attachment of the pedicle, while the other descends in a similar manner on the vertebra below ; and each communicates with a corresponding branch from the neighbouring spinal artery. As this arrangement prevails on both sides and throughout the whole length of the spine, there is formed a double series of arterial arches behind the bodies of the vertebrae, the convexities of which are turned towards each other. From the arches on opposite sides offsets are directed inwards at intervals to reinforce a median longitudinal vessel, which extends along the spine like the single artery on the front of the spinal cord. The arches are moreover joined together across the bodies of the vertebra? by transverse branches. Other small twigs pass back- wards from the spinal branch, and anastomosing with their fellows form an irregular network on the anterior surface of the arches of the vertebrae and the ligamenta subflava. From these interlacements numerous minute ramifications proceed to the ligaments, the periosteum and the bones. Varieties.—The lumbar arteries of opposite sides, instead of taking their origin separately from the aorta, occasionally commence by a common trunk, the branches of which pass out laterally, and continue their course in the ordinary way. Two arteries of the same side are sometimes conjoined at their origin. One or both of the last pair of lumbar arteries may arise in common with the middle sacral. On the fifth lumbar vertebra, the place of a lumbar artery is often taken by a branch from the middle sacral artery, and the ilio-lumbar com- pensates for the absence of the lumbar vessel amongst the muscles. MINUTE ANASTOMOSES OF THE VISCEEAL AND PAEIETAL BEANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AOETA. The existence of minute anastomoses between some of the visceral branches of the abdominal aorta and those supplying the wall of the cavity has been recog- nised by several anatomists, but the extent and nature of these communications were first clearly demonstrated by W. Turner in a series of experimental injections, made with a view to their detection (Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., July, 1863).