THYROID AXIS. 395 about equal to the depth of the pons, at the upper border of which it ends by dividing- into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Branches.—Besides numerous small branches to the substance of the pons, the basilar artery gives off the following (a) The transverse arteries, several on each side, pass directly outwards. One, the auditory artery, accompanies the nerve of the same name into the internal auditory meatus and supplies the labyrinth of the ear. (b) The anterior (inferior) cerebellar arteries (vi) pass backwards, one on each side, to the anterior part of the under surface of the cerebellum, anastomosing with the inferior cerebellar branches of the vertebral arteries. (c) The superior cerebellar arteries (v) arise so close to the bifurcation of the basilar, that this artery is often described as dividing into four branches. Each one passes outwards immediately below the third nerve, and, entering the groove between the pons Yarolii and the crus cerebri, turns backwards round the latter, close to the fourth nerve, to reach the upper surface of the cerebellum, where it divides into branches. Of these some extend outwards, and one or more backwards along the superior vermiform process, to reach the circumference of the cerebellum, where they anastomose with the branches of the inferior cerebellar artery; while others run inwards to supply the vermiform process and the valve of Vieussens, and in part the velum interpositum. The posterior cerebral artery (iv), passes outwards, on each side, parallel to the superior cerebellar artery, and separated from it at its origin by the third nerve, which comes forwards between the two vessels. It turns backwards round the crus cerebri, and then runs outwards and upwards on the under surface of the posterior part of the cerebrum, passing near the hinder extremity of the corpus callosum. Close to its origin it gives off several small branches to the posterior perforated spot, and as it turns backwards it is joined by the posterior communicating artery, thus taking part (as described at p. 386) in the formation of the circle of Willis. It then gives off one or two posterior choroid arteries to the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses, and its terminal branches supply the occipital lobe and the lower and inner parts of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum (see p. 387). Varieties-—The basilar artery is originally formed by the coalescence of two separate vertebral arteries, and traces of a septum are sometimes found in its interior (Davy, “ Researches,” &c., vol. i, p. 301). The occurrence of a perfora- tion of the vessel, which is occasionally seen, may be likewise attributed to the incomplete fusion of the two arteries. The posterior cerebral artery is occasionally given off on one side from the internal carotid, by an enlargement of the posterior communicating branch. 2. Thyroid axis (ii).—The thyroid axis springs from the fore part of the subclavian artery, close to the inner side of the anterior scalenus muscle. It is a short thick trunk, and receives the name of “ axis,” because, two or three lines from its origin, it divides into branches, which diverge in different directions : these are—the inferior or ascend- ing thyroid, the suprascapular, and a third branch, which is either the transverse cervical, or one of the branches into which that artery, when present, divides, viz., the superficial cervical. Varieties.—The thyroid axis has been seen arising beyond the scalenus anti- cus muscle. It may be associated at its origin with another branch ; most fre-