499 INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. end of the external jugular vein, or sometimes directly into the subcla- vian vein. The lower parts of the two anterior jugular veins are generally united by a transverse branch contained in the interfascial space at the upper border of the sternum (p. 289). Varieties of the superficial veins of the head and neck.—These veins are subject to many deviations from the arrangement above described. Thus, the relative size of the two divisions of the temporo-maxillary vein varies greatly, and it not unfrequently happens that one is very small or even absent, so that the trunk is continued mainly or wholly in one set of cases into the external jugular vein, in another set into the internal jugular through the common facial vein. The facial vein occasionally passes backwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle and joins the external jugular vein ; or it may be continued downwards, by means of an enlargement of the normal communicating branch, into the anterior jugular vein. In those instances in which the temporo-maxillary vein passes entirely into the internal jugular, the external jugular vein is very small, being formed solely by the posterior auricular vein ; and in such cases the posterior auricular vein may also join the temporo-maxillary trunk, so that the external jugular vein is then altogether wanting in the greater part of the neck. The lower part of the external jugular vein is occasionally connected with the cephalic vein of the arm by means of a branch passing downwards over the clavicle, and in rare cases the whole vein has been seen taking this course and dipping into the infraclavicular fossa to join the cephalic, or to open into the subclavian vein above the subclavius muscle. The transverse cervical and supra- scapular veins not unfrequently open independently into the subclavian vein. The anterior jugular vein varies greatly in size, and the right and left veins are sometimes united into a single median vessel for a part of their length. As a rare occurrence the anterior jugular vein passes outwards in front of the sterno- mastoid muscle. Internal jugular vein.—This vein, receiving the blood from the cranial cavity, is continuous at its upper extremity with the lateral sinus within the skull, and terminates interiorly in the innominate vein. It commences in the large posterior compartment of the jugular foramen by a dilatation which is termed the sinus or bulb of the internal jugular vein, and then makes its appearance below the base of the skull, where it rests against the rectus capitis lateralis muscle, being placed close behind the internal carotid artery. Inclining gradually to the outer side of that vessel, it descends with a nearly straight course in the neck, and becoming considerably increased in size about the level of the hyoid bone by the junction of the common facial, as well as of several deep veins, it thence accompanies the common carotid artery to the back of the clavicle, under cover of which it unites at a right angle with the subclavian vein. The internal jugular vein lies on the outer side of, and frequently overlaps somewhat, the common carotid artery, and the two vessels, together with the pneumo-gastric nerve, are contained in the same sheath of the deep cervical fascia. Close to, or within an inch of, the lower end of the vein is placed a single or double valve, which is however generally insufficient to completely prevent regurgitation, especially on the left side, where it is not unfrequently absent (Gruber). Lateral tributaries.—(a) The inferior petrosal sinus leaves the skull by the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and opens imme- diately into the internal jugular vein. (b) Pharyngeal veins.—These veins form a plexus which covers the outer surface of the pharynx, communicating above on the inner side of the internal pterygoid muscle with the pterygoid plexus, and collecting branches also from the soft palate, the Eustachian tube, and the pre- K K 2