707 THE PERINEUM OF THE MALE. siderable branch to the bulb, which is directed inwards about half an inch from the base of the triangular ligament, and an inch and a half in front of the anus. Resting on the upper surface of the triangular ligament is the apex of the prostate, and this body is surrounded by its sheath, which is con- tinuous on each side with the upper layer of the ligament; beneath the sheath is the large prostatic plexus of veins, derived mainly from the breaking up of the dorsal vein of the penis which passes into the pelvis between the symphysis pubis and the triangular ligament. In the recess between the lateral part of the upper surface of the triangular ligament and the sheath of the prostate, the anterior part of the levator ani muscle is lodged. Above the prostate, and at a depth generally of from two and a half to three inches from the surface, is the bladder, the base of which projects backwards into the concavity formed by the rectum and overlaps the second part of the bowel to a variable extent according to the degree of distension of the bladder. Between the bladder and rectum are tbe vesiculm seminales and the terminal portions of the vasa deferentia. When the bladder is full, the recto-vesical pouch of the peritoneum does not usually reach below a line an inch and a half from the base of the prostate. In contact with the upper surface of the levator ani is the recto-vesical fascia, forming the deep boundary of the perineal space. It extends from the side wall of the pelvis downwards and inwards to the side of the rectum, to the bladder and prostate. Its line of attachment to the bladder on each side runs upwards and backwards immediately above the prostate, and external to the position of the vesicuke seminales ; and it is essential, in the operation of lithotomy, that the bladder be opened -entirely below this level. If the incision be carried through the fascia beyond this line, then the pelvic cavity will be opened, and extravasation of urine into the loose areolar tissue will probably follow. z v. 2