ARTERIES OP THE ABDOMEN. 454 4. The uterine artery (v) is directed inwards from the anterior division of the internal iliac towards the neck of the uterus. Insinuating itself between the layers of the broad ligament, it passes upwards on the side of the uterus, pursuing an exceedingly tortuous course, and sends off numerous branches, winch ramify on the anterior and posterior surfaces and in the substance of that organ. Near its termination it is joined by a branch of the ovarian artery, forming an arch from which offsets proceed to the Fallopian tube and the round ligament of the uterus. During pregnancy the uterine artery becomes much enlarged. 5. The obturator artery (iv), while it usually arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, is not unfrequently derived from the posterior division of that vessel. It is directed downwards and forwards a little below the ilio-pectineal line, resting upon the obturator portion of the pelvic fascia, and covered by the peritoneum. The obturator nerve is a little way above, and the companion vein is below the artery. Reaching the upper part of the thyroid foramen, it passes through a short canal formed by the groove on the under surface of the superior ramus of the pubis and the arched border of the obturator fascia (p. 336), and divides immediately into internal and external ter- minal branches, which descend on the surface of the obturator membrane, beneath the obturator externus muscle. Branches.—(a) Within the pelvis, besides other small muscular offsets, the obturator artery furnishes an iliac branch which ramifies in the iliac fossa, supplying the ilio-psoas muscle and anastomosing with the ilio- lumbar artery, and sometimes a branch to the urinary bladder. (b) One or two small pubic branches are given off by the artery as it is about to leave the pelvis : these vessels ramify on the back of the pubis, and communicate behind the bone and the attachments of the abdominal muscles with the pubic branch of the epigastric artery, and with the corresponding offsets of the opposite side. (c) The internal terminal branch, turning downwards close to the inner margin of the thyroid foramen, furnishes offsets to the obturator muscles and to the upper ends of the adductors, and anastomoses with branches of the internal circumflex artery. (d) The external terminal branch descends near the outer margin of the thyroid foramen, sends a small offset inwards to anastomose with the lower part of the internal branch, and then, inclining outwards in the groove below the acetabulum, is distributed to the muscles arising from the ischial tuberosity and anastomoses with branches of the sciatic artery. It also gives twigs to the obturator muscles; and one small branch, entering the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch, supplies the fat and synovial membrane at the bottom of the acetabulum, and ramifies in the interarticular ligament as far as the head of the femur. Varieties.—The obturator artery frequently has its origin transferred to the commencement of the epigastric artery, and sometimes to the external iliac near its termination. In 361 cases observed by R. Quain, the origin of the obturator artery took place as follows. In the proportion of 2 cases out of 3, it arose from the internal iliac ; in 1 case out of 3)r, from the epigastric ; in a very small number of cases (about 1 in 72) it arose by two roots, one from each of the above-named vessels ; and in about the same proportion, from the external iliac artery. Sometimes the obturator artery arises from the epigastric on both sides of the same body, but in the majority of instances this mode of origin of the vessel is met with only on one side.