MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE. 801 The palato-pharyngeus arises in the soft palate in two layers which embrace the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles. The superficial or upper layer consists of scattered fibres which join those of the opposite muscle in the middle line ; the deep or lower layer is much stronger, and partly meets its fellow, partly takes origin from the hinder margin of the hard palate and the aponeurosis of the velum. At the outer border of the soft palate the muscle also receives one or two slender bundles which descend from the lower and fore part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube (salpingo-pharyngens, Santorini). It then passes downwards and backwards in the posterior pillar of the fauces, becomes considerably expanded, and is inserted, its fibres mingling with those of the stylo-pharyngeus, into the upper and hinder borders of the thyroid cartilage, and into the fibrous layer of the lower part of the pharynx, reaching as far as, or even crossing, the middle line behind. The azygos uvulas muscle (Morgagni), so called from having been supposed to be a single muscle, consists of two slips, which arise, one on each side of the middle line, from the tendinous structure of the soft palate, sometimes also from the posterior nasal spine, and descend into the uvula. The two slips are separated by a slight interval above, and unite as they descend. The levator palati muscle arises by a narrow tendon from the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, in front of the orifice of the carotid canal, and from the lower margin of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The fibres form a rounded muscle which passes downwards and forwards into the pharynx, crossing the upper border of the superior constrictor. Becoming flattened as it approaches the middle line, its fore part is inserted into the aponeurosis of the palate, while the larger posterior portion meets the muscle of the other side under cover of the azygos uvulae. The circumflexus or tensor palati arises from the navicular fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, from the spine of the sphenoid, and from the outer side of the Eustachian tube. Its flattened belly descends perpendicularly, on the mesial side of the internal pterygoid muscle, and ends in a tendon which, turning round the hamular process, where a synovial bursa smooths its passage, extends horizontally inwards, and is inserted into a transverse ridge on the under surface of the palate bone, and into the aponeurosis of the soft palate. Nerves.—The muscles of this group receive their nerves from various sources some of which are not yet sufficiently determined. The tensor palati receives a branch from the otic ganglion of the fifth nerve, the levator palati and azygos uvulas from the facial through the petrosal branch of the Vidian, and the palato- glossus and palato-pharyngeus are probably supplied through the pharyngeal plexus. Actions of the Muscles of the Pharynx and Soft Palate.—In considering the mode of action of the constrictor muscles it is to be observed that their so- called insertion takes place into a part which, owing to its connections, cannot be moved forwards, and that the constriction of the pharynx takes place there- fore mainly by movement backwards of its anterior wall, the cavity being thus converted into a transverse slit. The hyoid bone and larynx are at the same time carried somewhat upwards as well as backwards, in consequence of the oblique direction of the larger number of the fibres of the middle and lower constrictors. The upper part of the superior constrictor differs from the rest in the circumstance that, being placed above the level of the palate, it cannot act directly on the food, and also that its fibres are attached at both ends to parts which are immoveable. The effect of its contraction is consequently to flatten the side-walls of this part