Fig. 86. 106 Fig. 86.—Rigiit hip-bone, inner BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. with the bone of the opposite side, the junction being called the symphysis ligament ; and 4, a less rough surface reaching up to the hinder portion of the iliac crest and giving' origin to the lower parts of the erector and multifidus spinal muscles. OR PELVIC SURFACE. (A. T.) ^ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 16, 17, and 18, in- dicate tlie same parts as in the pre- ceding figure ; 19, iliac fossa ; 20, ilio-pectineal line ; 21, auricular surface; 22, deep impressions for the posterior sacro-iliac ligament, and behind these the surface for the erector and multifidus spinse muscles ; 23, oval surface of the symphysis pubis ; 24, pubic spine ; 25, angle of the pubis ; between 24 and 25, the pubic crest ; between 17 and 20, the pelvic surface of the ilium. The cs pubis forms the an- terior wall of the pelvis, and bounds the obturator foramen in the upper half of its extent. At its outer and upper extremity it forms a part of the acetabulum ; at its inner extremity it presents an elongated oval surface which forms the articulation of the pubis. The part which passes downwards and outwards below the symphysis is called the inferior or descending ramus, the upper part is called the superior or ascending ramus, and the flat portion between the rami is the body. The deep or pelvic surface of the body is smooth ; the anterior or femoral surface is roughened near the symphysis by the attachments of muscles. At the superior extremity of the symphysis is the angle of the pubis, and extending outwards from this on the superior border is the rough crest, terminating in the projecting spine. The inferior ramus is flattened : the superior ramus becomes prismatic, and increases in thickness as it passes upwards and outwards, and between its posterior and superior surfaces there is prolonged outwards from the spine a ridge which is the pubic portion of the ilio-pectineal line. The surface in front of this line is covered by the pectineus muscle ; the inferior surface of the ramus presents a deep groove directed from behind forwards and inwards for the obturator vessels and nerve. On the superior surface above the acetabulum there is an elevation, the ilio-pectineal eminence, marking the place of junction of the pubis and ilium. The ischium forms the posterior and inferior part of the hip-bone, and bounds the obturator foramen in the lower half of its extent. Superiorly it enters into the acetabulum, inferiorly it forms a thick projection, the tuberosity, and this part, diminishing in size, is con- tinued forwards into the ramus. On its posterior border, behind the acetabulum, a sharp process, the spine, projecting with an inclination inwards, forms the inferior limit of the great sciatic notch, and is