DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. 430 side of the nerve, a little way removed from it, and under cover of the flexoi sublimis digitoram, if the spot selected be above the middle of the forearm. Near the wrist, the artery is readily exposed by an incision along the outer border of the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon. After drawing inwards this tendon, a deep layer of fascia is seen covering the vessels, and on dividing this the artery is laid bare with the nerve to its inner side. The radial artery may be ligatured in any part of its extent in the forearm by means of an incision carried through the skin and fascia in the course of the vessel, i. e., along a line from the centre of the bend of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid process of the radius. In the upper half of the forearm, the fleshy belly of the supinator longus will have to be drawn outwards ; in the lower half, the artery lies close to the outer side of the tendon of the flexor carpi ra.dia.lia which forms a guide to the vessel. At the wrist the radial artery may also be readily secured, the incision being made midway between the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and secundi internodii pollicis. It is generally preferable, however, to tie the artery at the lower part of the forearm. Collateral circulation.—The communications between the branches of the ulnar and radial arteries, about the wrist and in the palm, are so numerous and free that the circulation in the hand is carried on without difficulty after occlusion of either of the main trunks. It is important to bear in mind, in connection with wounds of the palmar arteries, the possibility of blood being conveyed to the hand by other channels than the ulnar and radial trunks, viz., by a large median artery, or a terminal branch of the anterior interosseous. DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. From the point at which its arch is considered to terminate—the lower margin of the fifth dorsal vertebra, the aorta descends along the spine to the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. The direction of this part of the vessel is not vertical, for, as it follows the hend of the spine, upon which it rests, it is necessarily concave forwards in the dorsal region, and convex forwards in the lumbar. Again, as its commencement is on the left side of the bodies of the vertebrae, and its termination nearly in the middle line, there is a general inclination inwards in its whole length, but more marked in the upper half. Within the thorax, where the offsets are small, the aorta diminishes only slightly in size (from 23 to 21 mm.) ; in the abdomen the diminution is considerable (from 21 to 17 mm.), in con- sequence of large branches being furnished to the viscera of that cavity. That part of the descending aorta which is situated in the thorax is called the descending thoracic aorta; it extends from the lower border of the fifth dorsal vertebra on the left side, to the opening between the crura of the diaphragm in front of the last dorsal vertebra. It lies in the posterior mediastinum, resting against the spine and covered in front by the root of the left lung and the pericardium; on the left side it is in contact with the corresponding pleura and lung ; and close to it on the right side are the azygos vein, the thoracic duct, and the oesophagus. The oesophagus, however, towards the lower part of the thorax, is in front of the artery, and near the diaphragm gets somewhat to the left side. The left or small azygos vein lies behind the descending thoracic aorta. The branches derived from the descending thoracic aorta are numerous, but small. They are distributed to the walls of the thorax, and to the viscera contained within it—the parietal branches being the larger and more numerous..