DORSAL AETEEY OF THE FOOT. 485 of the popliteal artery. It runs outwards across the neck of the fibula, perforating the attachment of the soleus, and is distributed to that muscle, to the peroneus longus, and to the integument. 3. The anterior tibial recurrent artery (v), larger than the posterior, arises from the trunk immediately after its passage through the aperture in the interosseous membrane. Ascending through the upper end of the tibialis anticus muscle, to which it furnishes offsets, this branch ramifies over the outer tuberosity of the tibia, and anasto- moses with the lower articular arteries of the popliteal. 4. The muscular branches supply the muscles of the front of the leg, and send also three or four small twigs backwards through the inter- osseous membrane into the tibialis posticus (Hyrtl), as well as other oil- sets forwards between the muscles to the skin. 5. The external malleolar artery (v-vi), arises near the ankle- joint, and is directed outwards beneath the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius muscles, to ramify over the outer malleolus, forming anastomoses with the anterior peroneal and tarsal arteries. It furnishes twigs to the neighbouring articulations. 6. The internal malleolar artery, smaller than the foregoing, passes inwards beneath the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and ramifies over the internal malleolus, anastomosing with the corresponding branches from the posterior tibial artery. DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT (IV-V). The dorsal artery of the foot, the continuation of the anterior tibial, extends from the bend of the ankle to the posterior end of the first inter- metatarsal space. At this spot it turns downwards and passes between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle into the sole, where it completes the plantar arch and supplies the inner side of the second and both sides of the great toes. On the dorsum of the foot the artery lies in the interval between the tendons of the extensor proprius hallucis and extensor longus digitorum muscles, resting upon the tarsal bones, to which it is bound by an aponeurotic layer. It is covered by the integument and the dorsal fascia of the foot, at its upper end also by the lower band of the anterior annular ligament, and near its termination by the innermost slip of the extensor brevis digitorum muscle. Two vence comites accompany this artery, and the internal branch of the anterior tibial nerve lies usually on its outer side. Branches.—On the dorsum of the foot, the artery gives off two or three small internal branches, which ramify on the inner side of the tarsus, and anastomose with branches of the internal plantar artery ; two external branches, which are of larger size, and are named tarsal and » metatarsal arteries ; and the first dorsal interosseous artery, which iirises as the trunk bends downwards in the first space. As soon as it appears in the sole, the artery divides into two terminal offsets, an outer communicating branch which completes the plantar arch, and an inner digital artery to the great and second toes. 1. The tarsal artery (v) arises opposite the head of the astragalus, and inclines outwards beneath the extensor brevis digitorum muscle to the cuboid bone, where it divides into branches which anastomose with