INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 567 (/) The superficial temporal nerve divides into slender branches which supply the skin over the greater part of the temporal region, the anterior ones forming communications with the temporal branches of the facial nerve (fig. 32 6, 18). Inferior dental nerve.—The inferior dental is the largest of the three branches of the lower maxillary nerve. It descends under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, behind and to the outer side of the lingual nerve, and, passing between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation, enters the inferior dental canal. In company with the dental artery, it proceeds along this canal, and supplies branches to the teeth. At the mental foramen it bifurcates; one part, the incisor branch, being continued onwards within the bone to- wards the middle line, while the other, the much larger mental branch, escapes by the foramen to the face. When about to enter the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, the inferior dental nerve gives off the slender mylo-hyoid branch. (a) The mylo-hyoid branch descends in the groove on the inner side of the ramus of the lower jaw to the under surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, to which and to the anterior belly of the digastric it is dis- tributed. The fibres of this nerve may be traced back within the sheath of the inferior dental to the motor portion of the inferior maxillary nerve. (b) The dental branches supply the molar and bicuspid teeth, together with the adjoining part of the gum. They form by their communications a fine inferior dental plexus, resembling that formed by the corresponding nerves in the upper jaw. (c) The incisor branch continues the direction of the trunk of the nerve, and supplies filaments to the canine and incisor teeth. (d) The mental or labial nerve, emerging from the bone by the mental foramen, divides beneath the depressor anguli oris into three parts, an inferior, which descends to the integument of the chin, and two superior, which ascend to the skin and mucous membrane of the lower lip. All three communicate freely with the supramaxillary branch of the facial nerve. Varieties.—The inferior dental and lingual nerves have been observed to form a single trunk as far as the dental foramen. The inferior dental nerve sometimes has one or two accessory roots from other divisions of the inferior maxillary. The most common of these is one which arises from the Gasserian ganglion and remains separate until after it enters the dental canal (lesser Inferior dental nerve, Sapolini). The mylo-hyoid nerve frequently (constantly, Sappey) gives off a small branch, which pierces the mylo-hyoid muscle and joins the lingual nerve. Branches are also described as passing from the mylo-hyoid nerve to the depressor anguli oris and platysma myoides muscles (Henle), to the integument below the chin (Krause, Schwalbe), and to the submaxillary gland (Meckel, Henle, Cumow). Lingual nerve.—The lingual branch (or gustatory nerve) descends under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, lying to the inner side and in front of the dental nerve, and generally united to that by a cord which may cross over the internal maxillary artery. Near its origin, it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani, a small branch which is given off by the facial nerve, and descends from the inner end of the Glaserian fissure. It then passes between the internal pterygoid muscle