231 FASCIiE OF THE HIP AND THIGH. superficial fascia of the perineum. In the neighbourhood of the groin a thin layer of condensed areolar tissue, placed beneath the glands and superficial vessels, can be raised from the surface of the fascia lata, and this is sometimes described separately as a deep layer of superficial fascia. This structure is continued across the saphenous opening of the fascia lata, to the margins of which it is closely attached, and being here perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of blood-vessels and lymphatics, it receives the name of cribriform fascia. The deep fascia of the thigh or fascia lata is a strong aponeurotic membrane, consisting of white shining fibrous tissue, and forming a continuous sheath round the limb. It is attached superiorly to the back of the sacrum and coccyx, to the crest of the ilium, to Poupart’s liga- ment, to the body and ramus of the pubis, to the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium, and to the lower margin of the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment. In the gluteal region it descends on the surface of the gluteus medius muscle as far as the upper border of the gluteus maximus, where it divides into two layers, one of which passes on the superficial, the other on the deep surface of that muscle. After encasing the muscle, the layers unite at its lower and external borders. Over the great trochanter, where the layers unite externally, and where also the fascia is much thickened, the greater number of the fibres of the muscle are inserted between the layers. The thickened portion of the fascia may be traced downwards on the outside of the thigh, from the crest of the ilium to the outer tuberosity of the tibia and the head of the fibula. This ilio-tibial band consists of dense glistening parallel fibres, and about the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the thigh it receives also the insertion of the tensor vaginae femoris muscle. On the rest of the thigh the fascia lata varies in thickness. It is thinnest in the upper and inner part of the thigh, where it covers the adductor muscles. At the knee it is considerably strengthened on each side of the patella by tendinous expansions given off from the lower parts of the vasti muscles, and assists in forming the capsular investment of the joint. This part of the fascia is firmly attached to the head of the tibia and to the lateral margins of the patella, but a superficial layer is given off which extends over the front of the latter bone, a synovial bursa of considerable size being interposed. A second smaller bursa is placed immediately under the skin covering the patella, and the cavities of the two are sometimes continuous through an aperture in the aponeurosis. Other small bursae are not unffequently present over the patella or its ligament, or over the tubercle of the tibia. Posteriorly the fascia is continued uninterruptedly over the hamstring muscles and the popliteal space into the fascia of the leg. On the front of the thigh, a little below and external to the inner end of Poupart’s ligament, is placed the saphenous opening, an aperture in the fascia lata through which the internal saphenous vein passes to join the femoral vein, and which receives special attention from its being the place of exit of femoral hernia. The outer part of this opening lies in front of the femoral artery, and is bounded externally by a crescentic margin, the falciform border, which crosses the surface of the infundi- buliform sheath of the femoral vessels. This margin in the middle of its extent is continued into looser tissue, the above-mentioned cribriform fascia, but superiorly and inferiorly it ends in two more distinct in- curved extremities, the superior and inferior comua. The inferior