470 ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 5. The deep femoral or profunda artery (ii), the principal nutrient vessel of the thigh, usually arises from the outer and back part of the femoral, about an inch and a half below Poupart’s ligament. It is directed at first somewhat outwards, in front of the iliacus muscle, so as to be visible for a short distance external to the continuation of the femoral trunk ; then inclining inwards and slightly backwards, it descends behind that vessel, and between the adductor longus and magnus muscles near their femoral attachments. Giving off numerous branches on its way downwards, the profunda diminishes rapidly in size ; and it termi- nates, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh, as a small vessel which pierces the adductor magnus, and is known as the lowest perforating artery. This artery lies successively in front of the iliacus, pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus muscles. The femoral and profunda veins and the adductor longus muscle are interposed between it and the femoral trunk. Branches.—The named branches of the deep femoral artery are the external and internal circumflex, and the perforating arteries. Other less regular offsets pass to the vastus internus, and to the adductor muscles. 1. The external circumflex artery (iii-iv), the largest of the branches, arises from the outer side of the profunda near its commencement. Passing outwards for a short distance beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles, and between the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, it gives offsets to the neighbouring muscles, and ends by dividing into the three following branches :— (a) The ascending branch runs upwards beneath the tensor vaginae femoris, supplies that muscle and the fore parts of the gluteus medius and minimus, and anastomoses with the terminal branches of the gluteal artery, as well as with offsets of the deep circumflex iliac. One branch passes up under cover of the rectus muscle, and is distributed to the hip- joint. (&) The transverse branch, the smallest of the three, is directed outwards over the crureus, and divides into two or three branches which enter the vastus externus muscle on its deep surface, and anastomose with the upper perforating arteries. (c) The descending branch, much larger than the others, sends its offsets downwards to the rectus, vastus externus and crureus muscles, anastomosing in the last with the inferior perforating arteries. One or two of the lowest branches reach as far as the knee, and communicate with the upper external articular of the popliteal. 2. The internal circumflex artery (iv), arising generally opposite the external from the inner and posterior part of the deep femoral artery, passes backwards between the psoas and pectineus muscles, and over the upper border of the adductor brevis, towards the small trochanter of the femur, close to which it divides into two terminal branches, ascending and transverse. It furnishes muscular branches, which supply the obturator externus and adductor muscles, and anastomose with the obturator artery, and an articular branch (developed in inverse proportion to the articular branch of the obturator artery) which enters the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch, and supplies the fat and synovial membrane in the interior. (a) The ascending branch follows the tendon of the obturator externus muscle to the hollow on the inner side of the great trochanter, where it