SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF TIIE HEAD. 609 throughout, find ascending from its central point the anterior edge of the masseter. Immediately in front of the latter, the facial artery crosses the base of the jaw, and is readily found by its pulsation : the course of the vessel is roughly marked by a line passing upwards a little outside the corner of the mouth and continued by the side of the nose to the inner canthus of the eye. The coronary branch of the artery may be felt pulsating beneath the mucous membrane in each lip very near its free border. Stenson’s duct runs generally in the direction of a line drawn from the lower margin of the concha of the ear to a point midway between the ala of the nose and the free margin of the lip, but it varies somewhat in position in different subjects ; accompanying the duct are the transverse facial vessels and the infraorbital branches of the facial nerve. The interval between the ramus of the jaw and the mastoid process is occupied by the parotid gland, a part of which extends forwards over the masseter muscle, and the trunk of the facial nerve is deeply placed beneath the gland ; the position of the nerve may be indi- cated” by a line running downwards and forwards from the anterior border of the mastoid process at the point where it meets the ear. A line carried downwards over the face, crossing the supraorbital notch and the interval between the two bicuspid teeth of the lower jaw, will be found to be nearly vertical and to pass over the infraorbital and mental fora- mina, thus forming a guide to the spots at which the largest cutaneous branches of the three trunks of the fifth nerve come to the surface. About the anterior half of the eyeball can be felt in the aperture of the orbit ; it gives a tense elastic sensation to the fingers. At the upper and inner angle of the orbital opening the pulley of the superior oblique muscle may also be felt. The skin of the eyelid is very soft and thin ; at the free margin of each lid it passes into the conjunctiva along the line of the eyelashes, and within this a sharp edge is formed, especially in the case of the lower lid, which is closely applied to the surface of the eyeball. The palpebral fissure is somewhat oval, or widely fusiform, in shape, but the margin of the upper lid is more arched than that of the lower. The fissure is also generally a, little inclined from vbthout inwards and downwards. The whole length of the palpebral fissure is about an inch and a quarter ; its breadth is scarcely sufficient, unless when the eyes are unusually widely opened, to expose the whole of the cornea ; but these dimensions, especially the latter, vary considerably in different persons, thus causing the eye to appear larger or smaller, although the size of the globe itself is relatively very constant. At the outer canthus, the lids meet in an acute angle ; at the inner, the fissure is prolonged downwards and inwards for about a quarter of an inch between portions of the lid- margins, which are straight and rounded. The junction of the curved and straight portions of the margin is marked by a slight elevation, the papilla lachrymalis, which is much better developed in the lower lid than the upper, and on drawing the lid forwards a minute opening, the pundum lachrymale, is seen on the summit of the papilla, leading into the canaliculus by which the tears are conveyed into the lachrymal sac. In the neighbourhood of the inner canthus the lids are separated from the eyeball by the caruncula lachrymalis, a red fleshy-looking portion of skin, which supports a few fine hairs, and by the fold of mucous mem- brane known as the plica semilunaris. The lids can be readily everted, the lower one by simply pulling it