MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. 340 which enclose the anus and meet again anteriorly, where the superficial fibres end in the skin, some of the innermost ones decussating across the middle line, while the larger part becomes blended with the transverse and the bulbo-cavernosus muscles in the central point of the perineum. Th q central point of the perineum is the mesial part of a small transverse tendinous septum in which several muscles of the perineum meet. It is placed about an inch in front of the anus, and immediately behind the bulb of the urethra in the male, behind the vulval orifice in the female. The tendinous structure is, however, not unfrequently entirely absent, in which case the muscles are directly continuous with one another. The levator ani is a broad fleshy layer which extends from the anterior and lateral parts of the pelvic wall downwards and inwards to the middle line, and forms, together with its fellow of the opposite side, a muscular floor to the greater part of the pelvic cavity. It takes origin from the pelvic surface of the pubis by thin tendinous fibres, placed between and usually intimately adherent to the pubic attachments of the obturator and recto-vesical fascite ; from the pelvic fascia along the line of origin of the recto-vesical fascia*; and to a slight extent from the ischial spine. Some fasciculi are also frequently added to the fore part of the muscle from the upper layer of the deep perineal fascia. The fibres of the hinder and larger portion of the muscle, including all those which are derived from the ischial spine and the pelvic fascia, converge as they descend upon the side of the rectum, and are inserted into the Fig. 223. Fig. 223.—Left half of the male PELVIS, TO SHOW THE LEVATOR ANI AND coccygeus muscles (after Cloquet). \ a, promontory of the sacrum ; b, pubic spine ; c, coccyx ; d, ischial spine ; e, sym- physis pubis ; /, a small portion of the anal part of the rectum ; y, half the prostate gland ; h, half the bulb and a portion of the penis ; 1, part of the obturator intemus muscle, exposed by removing the upper por- tion of the obturator fascia ; 2, coccygeus muscle, and above it the sacro-sciatic liga- ments ; 3, inner surface of the levator ani. lateral margin of the lower part of the coccyx, and into a narrow mesial aponeurosis, common to the muscles of the two sides, between the coccyx and the anus : a smaller part of the muscle, continued from the pubic origin, passes over the side of the prostate, and is inserted into the lower part of the rectum, where it becomes connected with the fibres of the external sphincter and slightly with those of the internal ; and the most anterior fibres, which are directed backwards, nearly parallel to the mesial plane, along the lower part of the prostate, meet between that body and the rectum witl i the corresponding fibres of the muscle of the opposite side, and blend with those of the external sphincter and constrictor urethrae muscles in the central point of the perineum. Relations.—The upper or pelvic surface of the levator aui is in contact with the recto-vesical fascia, which intervenes between the muscle and the rectum and prostate. The 1 ower or perineal surface, invested by the thin anal fascia, is covered by