SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE UPPER LIMB. 688 turns round the outer border of the forearm below the middle to join the median vein. The subcutaneous veins of the lower part of the front of the forearm (also those of the palm) are small, and terminate in the median and anterior ulnar veins. It occasionally happens that the ulnar artery, having been derived from the brachial at a higher level than usual, descends over the pronato-flexor muscles to the wrist, and in that case it would he felt pulsating beneath the skin in the neighbourhood of the anterior ulnar vein (p. 420). The bifurcation of the brachial artery takes place opposite a spot a finger’s breadth below the centre of the bend of the elbow. From this point, the radial artery runs downwards with a straight course to the fore part of the styloid process of the radius, being covered by the supinator longus as far as the centre of the forearm, and superficial beyond this spot. The ulnar artery inclines, Avith a slightly curved course, inwards to the middle of a line drawn from the internal condyle of the humerus to the outer side of the pisiform bone : this line indi- cates in its Avhole extent the direction of the ulnar nerve in the forearm, in its lower half that of the ulnar artery also. The latter is deeply placed beneath the muscles arising from the internal condyle till within an inch of the AATist. THE WRIST AND HAND. At the front of the Avrist, on the inner side, the pisiform bone can be grasped between the fingers, and moved slightly from side to side ; beloAV this the hook of the unciform bone can be felt Avith difficulty. On the outer side, a projection is felt just below and internal to the styloid process of the radius, formed by the tubercle of the scaphoid bone, and close beloiv this, the ridge of the trapezium is also to be dis- tinguished. At the back of the Avrist, on the inner side, the pyramidal bone can be felt, and slightly external to the middle line of the hand is a prominence, sometimes indistinct, but often very Avell marked, formed by the base of the third metacarpal bone. The sesamoid bones of the thumb can be felt, and the metacarpal bones and phalanges can be distinctly followed on the dorsal aspect. At the outer side of the Avrist, when the thumb is extended, there is a deep hulloAv bounded by the prominent tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodi i pollicis anteriorly and the ex- tensor secundi internodii pollicis posteriorly ; the latter tendon may be folloAved doAvn over the metacarpal bone of the thumb almost to its in- sertion. Beneath these tendons, and across the intervening holloAV, the radial artery runs in its course from the front to the back of the wrist ; its direction may be marked by a line drawn from the fore part of the styloid process of the radius to the upper end of the first interosseous space ; and a considerable vein, ascending from the outer part of the hand, is usually to be seen through the skin over the position of the artery. On the back of the hand, the tendons of the extensor communis digi- torum and extensor minimi digiti may all be recognized, together with the connecting band between the innermost slip of the common extensor and the outer portion of the little finger tendon. Between the first and second metacarpal bones is the abductor indicis muscle, Avhich forms a Avell marked prominence Avhen the thumb is brought to the side of the index finger, and below this is the adductor pollicis muscle contained in