349 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Fig. 225.—General view of the heart and blood-vessels of the trunk, from BEFORE IN A MALE ADULT. (A. T.) £ A, Right auricle ; B, left auricular appendix ; C, right ventricle ; D, part of the left ventricle ; I, I, aortic arch, and descending thoracic aorta ; II, trunk of the pulmonary artery dividing into its right and left branches, and connected to the aorta by the cord of the ductus arteriosus ; III, superior vena cava ; IV, IV, inferior vena cava. 1, innominate artery and right carotid; 1', left carotid ; 2, 2, right and left subclavian arteries; 3, intercostal vessels; 4, inferior diaphragmatic arteries ; below 4, the cceliac axis and superior mesenteric artery; 5, renal arteries ; 6, 6', the spermatic arteries ; below 6, the inferior mesenteric; 7, 7', right and left common iliac arteries ; 8, 8', ex- ternal iliac arteries ; 9, left epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries ; 10, 10', internal iliac arteries ; and between these two figures, the middle sacral artery ; 11, 11, femoral arteries ; 12, deep femoral arteiy of the left side. o, right innominate vein ; a , the left; b, V, right and left subclavian veins; b", the cephalic vein of the right arm ; c, c', internal jugular veins; c", right facial vein ; d, d, external jugular veins formed by the posterior auricular and part of the temporo-maxillary; d', anterior jugular veins with the transverse branch joining them ; e, azygos vein passing over the root of the right lung ; /, hepatic veins ; g, renal veins ; to the sides are seen the kidneys and the suprarenal bodies ; g’, right, g", left ureter; h, h', spermatic veins ; i, i, common iliac veins ; i', i', external iliac veins ; Ic, lc, femoral veins; l, internal saphenous vein of the right side. cable on the supposition of abnormal enlargement or diminution of naturally existing vessels. For fuller information on the natural and abnormal distribution of the blood-vessels, the reader may consult the works of Haller and Tiedemann, and more especially the “Anatomy of the Arteries,” by Richard Quain, 1844 ; Henle’s “Handbuch,” vol. iii., part 1, 2nd Ed., 1876, in which a connected view of the varieties by W. Krause is given ; and other special treatises. The dimensions of the arteries and the thickness of their coats have been studied by C. Krause (“ Handbuch,” 3rd Ed. by TV. Krause, vol ii., 1879), Kolliker (Mikroskop. Anat. ii., 512), Gimbert (Journ. de l’anat., 1865, 536), Beneke (Schriften der Marburger Gesellsch. z. Befbrd. d. ges. Naturwiss. xi., 1880), and Valeric Schiele-Wiegandt (Virchow’s Archiv, 1880, Ixxxii., 27) ; and the observations of the two last-named authors agree in indicating that, in addition to individual and sexual differences, both the calibre of the large arteries and the thickness of their walls increase gradually with advancing years. The primary branches of the aortic trunk, and their secondary and tertiary ramifica- tions are divided by Hcnle, according to their average calibre (after injection), into six groups or orders, as shown in the annexed table ; and this classification will be adopted in the following descriptions, the order to which each principal artery belongs being indicated by Roman figures within a parenthesis after its name. The average diameter of the pulmonary artery and of the several parts of the aorta will be directly stated in millimeters, as will also that of the innominate, sub- clavian, common iliac and external iliac trunks, which are considerably larger than the arteries of the first order, but differ too widely in size from one another to be included in one group. ORDER. AVERAGE CALIBRE. EXAMPLE. I. 8 mm. (4 inch) Common carotid. II. 6 mm. (:j- inch) Brachial. III. 5 mm. (| inch) Ulnar. IV. 3‘5 mm. Q inch) 2 mm. (V inch) Lingual. V. Posterior auricular. VI. 1 to -5 mm. (V to i inch) Supraorbital.