ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 404 AXILLARY ARTERY (I). The axillary artery is that part of the artery of the upper limb which extends from the outer border of the first rib to the lower margin of the teres major muscle. In this course it passes through the axilla, lying to the inner side of the shoulder-joint and upper part of the humerus, and its di- rection varies with the position of the limb, being curved downwards, or upwards, or being straight, according as the arm hangs by the side, or is elevated to a greater or less degree. With the arm raised to the level of the shoulder, a line drawn from the most prominent part of the clavicle to the inner side of the eminence formed by the biceps and coraco- brachialis muscles will indicate the position of the vessel. The axillary artery is crossed in front by the pectoralis minor muscle, and is thus conveniently divided into three parts : the first part lying above the pectoralis minor, the second part being behind that muscle, and the third part beyond it. In the first part of its course the artery is deeply placed, being covered by the pectoralis major, by a quantity of areolar and fatty tissue, and by a prolongation of the costo-coracoid membrane, as well as by the lower part of the subclavius muscle when the shoulder is depressed. This part of the artery is also invested by the axillary sheath, a membranous structure continued downwards from the dee]') cervical fascia (p. 289), and surrounding both the trunks of the vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves. It rests upon the first intercostal space and the first digita- tion of the serratus magnus. The axillary vein lies to the inner side and somewhat in front of the artery, and the cephalic and acromio-thoracic veins cross it to reach the main trunk. The nerves of the brachial plexus are to the outer side, and the posterior thoracic nerve passes down behind it. In the second part of its course the artery is covered in front by the pectoralis major and minor muscles : the vein is on its inner side, and the three cords of the brachial plexus are placed one on the outer side, the second behind, and the third on the inner side, the last intervening between the artery and vein. The third part of the axillary artery is covered anteriorly for the upper half of its extent by the pectoralis major muscle ; in its lower half it is superficial, being placed immediately beneath the deep fascia of the arm, and here the flow of blood in the vessel may be readily controlled by pres- sure directed from within outwards against the humerus. It rests upon the subscapularis muscle and the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major ; and on its outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle. The axillary vein is still on its thoracic side, and the lower portion of the artery is accompanied also by one or both of the brachial venae comites. The nerves resulting from the division of the brachial plexus are disposed around the artery, as follows, viz., behind are the circumflex and musculo- spiral; to its inner side the ulnar (between the artery and vein), and the small internal cutaneous (internal to the vein); to its outer side the Fig. 246.—The carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries (from Tiedemann). ^ The great pectoral, the sterno-mastoid, and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles have been removed; the front part of the deltoid has been divided near the clavicle. Subclavian artery and its branches.—1, first part of the subclavian artery giving rise to the thyroid axis and internal mammary, and also to +, the vertebral artery; 2, third part of the subclavian artery ; 3, first part of the axillary artery; 4, third part of the axillary artery; 5, commencement of the brachial artery; 6, superficial cervical artery,