296 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Relations.—Its external surface is in contact with the inferior lingualis, hyo- glossus and stylo-glossus muscles, the sublingual gland and the ranine vessels, and its lower border with the genio-hyoid muscle. The terminal portion of the hypoglossal nerve enters its posterior part. Varieties. — Occasional slips of this muscle have been noticed passing to the epiglottis, or to the stylo-hyoid ligament, or more frequently to the small cornu of the hyoid bone. It has also been found united with the genio-hyoid muscle. The liyo-g'lossus is a flat quadrate muscle, arising from the whole length of the great cornu and from the lateral part of the body of the hyoid bone ; it passes upwards to the posterior half of the tongue close to its lateral border, whence the fibres spread forwards and inwards over the dorsum, joining those of the stylo-glossus muscle. Delations.—The hyo-glossus is concealed by the digastric, stylo-hyoid and mylo- hyoid muscles, except at its posterior inferior angle : the deep part of the submaxillary gland rests on its surface, and it is crossed from below upwards by the hypoglossal nerve, the Whartonian duct, and the lingual nerve. It covers the hinder part of the genio-glossus and the origin of the middle constrictor of the pharynx, together with the lingual artery and glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Varieties.—The origin of the muscle is sometimes pierced by the lingual artery. The triticeo-glossus (Bochdalek) is a small muscle which arises from the cartilago- triticea in the thyro-hyoid ligament, and passes upwards and forwards, lying on the inner side of the lingual artery, to enter the tongue with the posterior part of the hyo-glossus. The chondro-glossus is a small flattened muscular slip, sometimes described as a part of the preceding muscle, from which it is separated, however, by the pharyngeal fibres of the genio-glossus. It arises from the inner side of the base of the small cornu and from part of the body of the hyoid bone, and its fibres are directed upwards and forwards, spreading- somewhat, to end on the dorsum of the tongue by side of the middle line. It is sometimes wanting. The stylo-glossus, the shortest of the three muscles which spring from the styloid process, arises from the front of that process near its point, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, to which in some cases the greater number of its fibres are attached : passing forwards and slightly downwards and inwards, it is inserted along the side and under part of the tongue as far as the tip, its fibres decussating, and becoming blended with those of the hyo-glossus and palato-glossus muscles. Delations.—This muscle lies deeply beneath the parotid gland and angle of the jaw, and is crossed by the lingual nerve. Varieties.—The mylo-glosms (Wood) is a small accessory slip, which usually comes from the angle of the lower jaw, but has also been seen coming from the stylo-maxillary ligament. Occasionally the whole muscle arises from one of these points. A very rare origin has been noted by Gruber from the external auditory meatus. Albinus and Bohmer have noted entire absence of the muscle, and various anatomists have seen it double. Nerves.—The muscles of this group are all supplied with branches from the hypoglossal or twelfth cranial nerve. Actions.-—The genio-glossus muscle has a complicated action, the hinder past protruding, and the fore part retracting the tongue, while the middle part, or nearly the whole muscle, acts as a depressor. The stylo-glossus draws the tongue backwards, and elevates its base. It thus comes into play in deglutition. The muscle of one side acting alone gives a lateral direction to the fore part of the tongue. The hyo-glossus and chondro-glossus retract and depress the tongue. The genio-glossus and stylo-glossus acting together tend to make the dorsum of the tongue concave, while the hyo-glossus produces a convexity.