MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 278 The levator anguli oris, or musculus caninus, arises in the canine fossa immediately below the infraorbital foramen, inclines down- wards and slightly outwards, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, where it becomes blended with the fibres of the orbicularis, zygomaticus major and depressor anguli oris. Relations.—At its origin this muscle is concealed by the proper elevator of the upper lip ; its anterior surface supports the infraorbital nerve and artery, which separate it from the preceding muscle ; the posterior surface lies on the superior maxilla and the buccinator muscle. The zygomatici are two narrow and subcutaneous fasciculi of mus- cular fibres, extending obliquely from the most prominent part of the cheek towards the angle of the mouth, one being thicker and longer than the other. The zygomaticus minor, a very small muscle, arises from the an. terior and inferior part of the malar bone, and inclines downwards and forwards to terminate by joining the outer margin of the levator labii superioris ; sometimes near the origin of that muscle. The zygomaticus major, placed externally to the smaller muscle of the same name, arises from the malar bone near the zygomatic suture, from which it descends to the angle of the mouth, where it is partly inserted into the skin aud partly continued into the orbicularis and depressor anguli oris. Varieties.—The zygomaticus minor is frequently absent ; or it may fall short of the mouth, and be inserted into the fascia of the cheek. It may arise wholly or in part from the orbicularis palpebrarum ; it has also been observed fused with the zygomaticus major, or the levator labii superioris, or even united to the outer fibres of the frontalis (Eustachius). It has frequently been found double. The zygomaticus major has also been found double, or it may be double merely at its insertion. Sometimes it arises from the masseteric fascia below the zygoma (Maealister). Absence of the muscle has also been observed. The risorius (Santorini), or smiling muscle, is generally regarded as a part of the platysma myoides. It consists of some very thin fasciculi, which commence in the fascia over the masseter, or on the parotid gland, and, extending transversely inwards in the fat of the cheek, join the orbicularis and depressor anguli oris at the angle of the mouth. Varieties.—The risorius is often absent. It has been seen to arise from the integument over the upper end of the sterno-mastoid (Hallet) ; from the zygoma (McWhinnie) ; from the external ear (Albinus) ; and from the fascia over the mastoid process (Maealister). It was found double and even triple by Santorini. The lower and lateral part of the face receives a superficial muscular covering from the facial part of the platysma myoides, which is incor- porated with the muscles of the angle of the mouth and lower lip, and passes along with the superficial fascia over the base of the jaw into the cervical portion of the muscle; the anterior portion of the cervical platysma, on the other hand, though continuous externally with the facial, takes firm attachment to the base of the jaw for a length of two inches or more external to the symphysis. The bmccinator muscle consists of a flat and thin but strong set of fibres in contact with the mucous membrane, and forming a considerable part of the wall of the mouth. It is attached by its upper and lower margins to the outer surface of the alveolar parts of the maxillary bones.