MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 202 superiorly, the lowest slips of the serratus rnagnus may assist in dilating the chest by raising and everting the ribs. The latissimus dorsi carries the elevated arm downwards and backwards, rotat- ing it at the same time inwards, so as to make the palm look backwards, thus accomplishing such a movement as is made by the arm in swimming. By pass- ing over the angle of the scapula it binds that part to the trunk, preventing its projection backwards ; and by being folded round the outer border of the scapula, it limits the projection outwards of the same angle when the arm is raised. The pectoralis major muscle, while it combines with the latissimus dorsi in depressing the humerus from the raised position, opposes that muscle by drawing* the limb forwards. It is placed upon the stretch when the arms are thrown backwards, and is most shortened when they are folded across the chest. In the remarkable case of Groux, affected with congenital cleft sternum, when the shoulders were fixed backwards, the action of the great pectoral muscles tended to separate the two segments of the sternum, and increased the space in which the motions of the heart could be observed through the integuments. Considered as acting on the trunk from the upper limb in a fixed condition, these muscles all tend to draw the trunk of the body towards the limb, as in climbing, or other like efforts. The latissimus dorsi muscles, if acting on both sides, carry the body upwards and forwards, as in the use of crutches. The pectorales and latissimus dorsi are also muscles of forced inspiration, tending to raise and evert the ribs, more especially when the shoulders are fixed and the arms are elevated. The upper parts of both trapezii acting on the occipital bone aid in extending the head on the vertebral column ; and if one muscle only acts, it aids in rotating the head. MUSCLES AND FASCI.33 OF THE SHOULDER. Fascia.—The deep fascia binds together the muscles of the shoulder with considerable firmness, and over the back part of the deltoid and infraspinatus muscles assumes a tendinous appearance. A strong and somewhat isolated portion, bound down to the vertebral and axillary margins of the scapula, covers the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles as far as they are left uncovered by the deltoid. On reaching the posterior border of the deltoid muscle, this aponeurosis divides into two layers, of which the deeper is continued beneath the deltoid to the shoulder- joint, and the more superficial forms the thin aponeurotic covering of that muscle, becoming more and more slender as it passes forwards, and is attached to the lower border of the spine. Muscles.—The deltoid muscle is of a triangular form and coarsely fasciculated, and extends from the most prominent part of the shoulder downwards for half the length of the upper arm. It takes origin in an extended line which may be divided into three portions, viz., an anterior from the front of the external third of the clavicle, a middle from the point and outer edge of the acromion, and a posterior from the lower border of the spine of the scapula as far back as the triangular surface at its inner end. The fasciculi from these several parts converge as they descend, and are inserted by a strong thick tendon into the deltoid im- pression, a triangular rough surface above the middle of the humerus on its outer side. The three parts composing the deltoid muscle differ somewhat in the dispo- sition of the muscular fasciculi and the tendons. The anterior and posterior por- tions are composed of parallel fasciculi which, arising from the clavicle by short tendinous fibres, and by longer ones from the spine of the scapula, are inserted into the outer surface of the marginal parts of the inferior tendon. In the acro- mial portion, while some of the muscular fibres spring directly from the bone, yet most of them arise in a penniform manner from the sides of three or, more