ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. Fig. 12S. 152 Fig. 128.—View from before of the articulations of the shoulder bones. (A. T.) i 1, acromio-clavicular articulation; 2, conoid, and 3, trapezoid part of the coraco- clavicular ligament; 4, near the suprascapular- ligament; 5, on the coracoid process, points to the coraco-acromial ligament; 6, capsular ligament of the shoulder joint; 7, coraco-humeral ligament; above 6, an aperture in the capsular ligament through which the synovial membrane is prolonged under the tendon of the subscapularis muscle ; 8, tendon of the gknoid head of the biceps muscle ; 9, right half of the interclavicular liga- ment ; 10, in'erarticular libro-cartilage of the sterno-clavicular articulation; 11, costo- clavicular ligament ; 12 and 13, cartilage and small part of the second and third ribs attached by their anterior costo-stemal ligaments. supported above by a thick and broad superior ligament, and below by an inferior ligament, which is very thin. A small inter articular fibro-cartilage is sometimes present. It is wedge-shaped, attached by its base to the superior ligament, and projects only a short distance between the arti- cular surfaces. In rare cases it effects a complete division of the joint. The coracc-clavicular ligament, which connects the clavicle with the coracoid process of the scapula, is divisible into two parts. The conoid ligament, which is the posterior or internal fasciculus, broad above, narrow below, is attached interiorly to the inner part of the root of the The costoclavicular or rhomboid ligament may be regarded as an accessory ligament of the sterno-clavicular articulation. It is attached interiorly to the cartilage of the first rib near its sternal end, and passes obliquely upwards, backwards and outwards, to be fixed to a rough impression on the under surface of the clavicle near the sternal end. Scapulo-Clavicular Articulations.—At its outer end the clavicle is connected to the acromion and coracoid processes of the scapula. The acromio-clavicular articulation is a synovial joint uniting the outer extremity of the clavicle with the inner edge of the acromion. It is