222 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. terosseous nerve, which effects a more or less complete division of the muscle into two layers. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscle (abductor longus pollicis—Albinus) arises from a narrow oblique impression occupying the upper part of the outer division of the posterior surface of the ulna (see p. Fig. 169. of the supinator longus, and, the radial artery. Fig. 169.—Deep posterior muscles of the forearm. (A. T.) J a, humerus; b, olecranon ; c, radius ; d, lower part of the ulna, grooved for the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris, which is cut short; 1, an- coneus ; 2, flexor profundus digitorum, exposed by the removal of the aponeurotic tendon of 3, the flexor carpi ulnaris ; +, supinator brevis ; 4, ex- tensor carpi radialis hrevior, and 5, the cut tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior ; e, their inser- tions into the second and third metacarpal hones ; 6, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; 6', its insertion into the base of the first metacarpal bone ; 7, ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis ; T, its insertion into the base of the first phalanx; 8, extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; 8', its insertion into the base of the last phalanx ; 9, extensor indicis; 9', its junc- tion with the tendon of the common extensor, which is cut short : in the intermetacarpal spaces the four dorsal interosseous muscles are exposed, the tendons of the common extensor having been removed ; and at 10, the insertions of the second and third dorsal interosseous muscles, by a triangular expansion, into the tendon of the extensor communis, as well as the mode of insertion of that tendon into the middle and last phalanges, are shown. 92), below the origin of the supinator brevis ; from the middle third of the pos- terior surface of the radius, below the in- sertion of the same muscle ; and from the interosseous membrane between. Thence descending obliquely outwards, it ends in a tendon which passes, in company with the extensor primi internodii pollicis, through the groove on the outer side of the lower extremity of the radius, and is inserted in the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Relations.—The upper part of this muscle is concealed by the common extensor, but it be- comes superficial below, and together with the next muscle crosses the tendons of the radial extensors of the carpus, conceals the insertion below the extremity of the radius, crosses The extensor primi internodii pollicis muscle lies close to the lower border of the extensor ossis metacarpi, and is much smaller than that muscle ; it arises from the interosseous ligament and a small part of the radius below the middle of the forearm ; its tendon accompanies that of the extensor ossis metacarpi through the same compartment of