491 INNOMINATE VEINS. long as the right, takes a course from left to right, at the same time in- Fig. 288.—Sketch op the principal venous TRUNKS, TOGETHER WITH THE THORACIC DUCT. (A.T.) i a, basilar process of the occipital bone, through which and the temporal bones a transverse section has been made so as to lay open the jugular fora- men on both sides ; b, fifth cervical vertebra ; r, first rib ; cl, the sixth ; e, the twelfth ; /, fifth lumbar vertebra ; 1, superior vena ca va divided at the place of its entrance into the right auricle ; 2, right, 2', left subclavian vein ; 3, right internal jugular vein ; 3', 3', lower parts of the lateral sinuses of the dura mater ; that of the right side sliotfs at its junction with the jugular vein the bulb which lies in the jugular fossa of the temporal bone ; 4, right, and 4', left external jugular vein ; 5, right, and f/, left vertebral vein, being joined by 5", the anterior vertebral vein, before entering (in this case) the subclavian vein ; 6, placed on the left subclavian vein below the opening of the last, and of the thoracic duct; below b, the inferior- thyroid veins ; 7, 7', internal mammary veins ; 8, the left superior intercostal vein, joining the left innominate, and anastomosing below with the left upper azygos vein ; the right superior intercostal vein is seen joining the large azygos vein ; 9, 9, 9, large azygos vein ; 9', left lower azygos vein ; 10, thoracic duct; 11, inferior vena cava, at the place of junction of the renal veins ; 12, communication of the left lower azygos vein with the left renal vein ; 13, 13', right and left ascending lumbar veins, continued upwards into the corresponding azygos veins ; 14, 14', external iliac veins, which are joined higher np by the internal iliacs, to form the common iliac veins ; 15, placed on the pro- montory of the sacrum, points on either side to the prolongation of the lower branches of the lumbar veins into the pelvis, and their union with sacral and other branches of the internal iliac veins. Fig. 288. 3'JJI MO-7! Cm nil dining somewhat downwards : it crosses behind the upper part of the manubrium, being separated from the bone by the lower ends of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and by the thymus gland or its remains ; below it is the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, and behind it are the three large branches of the arch, as well as the left phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves. The innominate veins have no valves. Lateral tributaries.—Both inno- minate veins are joined by the vertebral, inferior thyroid and internal mammary veins ; that of the left side also by the superior intercostal, and some small thy- mic, mediastinal and pericardial veins. There is also, opening into the &6