244 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. and its deep surface is connected to a greater or less extent with the sub- jacent crureus, especially in its lower part. c and d. The remaining portions of the muscle, viz., the vastus internus and crureus, appear at first sight to be inseparably united and Fi<r. 181. Fig. 181.—Deep muscles of the front of THE THIGH. (A. T.) 4 a, anterior superior, and b, anterior inferior spine of the ilium ; e, great trochanter; d, symphysis pubis ; e, patella ; /, inner side of the knee-joint; g, head of the fibula; 1, gluteus medius; 2, gluteus minimus; 3, upper tendon of the rectus, dividing into its two portions ; 4, points to the cut tendon of insertion of the ilio-psoas muscle ; 5, part of the obturator externus and quadratus femoris; 6, pectineus ; 7, part of the adductor brevis; 8, adductor magnus ; 9, vastus internus ; 10, crureus; 11, vastus externus; 12, lower tendon of the rectus ; 13, lower part of the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata. to form one mass. If, however, the rectus tendon be turned well down- wards, there will come into view, above the patella, a narrow interval which can be followed up between the two tendons in the direction of a line from the inner part of the patella to the lower end of the anterior intertro- chanteric line of the femur, and the two portions can thus be separated, although their fleshy fibres are usually continuous above. The vastus inter- nus, like the vastus externus, has a narrow origin from the femur, by a superficial aponeurosis and deeper fleshy fibres, along the inner lip of the linea aspera and the line conti- nued upwards from that, while in the lower half numerous fibres arise from the tendons of the adductor longus and adductor magnus. The muscular fibres are directed downwards and forwards, and end mostly on a deep aponeurosis which forms below the innermost part of the common tendon ; the lower fibres, however, which pass inwards more obliquely than the upper ones, end by being inserted, shortly tendinous, into the inner margin of the patella for its upper half. A few superficial fibres also join the adjacent margin of the rectus tendon, and from its lower border an ex- pansion is given off to the capsule of the knee. The crureus has a fleshy origin from the anterior surface of the femur