548 CRANIAL NERVES. together in one foramen. The numerous small olfactory nerves descend into the nose through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; the optic nerve pierces the root of the small wing of the sphenoid bone ; the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, with the ophthalmic division of the fifth, pass through the sphenoidal fissure ; the superior maxillary and inferior maxillary divisions of the fifth pass respectively through the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale of the great wing of the sphenoid ; the facial and auditory nerves pierce the petrous bone ; the glosso- pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory nerves descend through the middle compartment of the jugular foramen between the petrous and occipital bones ; and the hypoglossal nerve passes through the anterior condylar foramen of the occipital bone. General distribution.—The greater number of the cranial nerves are entirely confined in their distribution within the limits of the head, as in the case of the first six pairs, the auditory and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Of these, the olfactory, optic, and auditory are restricted to their respective organs of sense ; while the third, fourth, and sixth are exclusively motor nerves in connection with the muscles of the eyeball and the elevator of the upper eyelid. In the fifth or trifacial nerve all the fibres derived from the large root, and connected with the Gasserian, ganglion, are entirely sensory in their function, and constitute the whole of the first and second and the greater part of the third division of the nerve ; but the last of these divisions has associated with it the fibres of the small or motor root, so as to become in some degree a compound nerve. As a nerve of sensation the trifacial occupies in its distribution the greater part of the head superficially and deeply, excepting the interior of the cranium and that part of the scalp which is situated behind a perpendicular line passing through the external auditory meatus. The muscular distribution of the inferior division of the fifth nerve is chiefly to the muscles of mastication. The glosso-pharyngeal is also a mixed nerve, and is distributed to the tongue, pharynx, and part of the ear-passages. Of the remaining nerves, the facial and hypoglossal, both exclusively motor in function, are almost entirely cephalic in their distribution ; the facial nerve giving fibres to all the superficial and a few of the deeper muscles of the head and face ; and the twelfth or hypoglossal supplying the muscles of the tongue. Of the facial, however, one branch passes downwards in the neck to the platysma myoides; and of the twelfth, the descending branch supplies in part the muscles of the neck which depress the hyoid bone and larynx. Lastly, the tenth or pneumo-gastric and the eleventh or spinal acces- sory nerves differ from the foregoing in having only a very limited distribution in the head, and in furnishing nerves in much greater proportion to organs situated in the neck and trunk. The first of these, after giving a small branch to the external ear, and supplying nerves to the pharynx and larynx, the trachea, gullet, lungs and heart, extends into the abdominal cavity as the principal nerve of the stomach. The other, the spinal accessory, which is classed with the cranial nerves in consequence of its passing out through one of the foramina of the skull, is entirely a motor nerve ; it is partially united with the pneumo-gastric near its origin, and thus furnishes some of the motor fibres of that nerve, but it is mainly distributed in the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles.