343 PERINEAL MUSCLES IN THE FEMALE. Fig. 224.—Muscles op the perineum in Fig. 224. from the fourth sacral and the perineal branch of the pudic ; and the coccy- geus from the fourth sacral nerve. The superficial genito-urinary muscles are supplied by the perineal branch of the pudic nerve, and the constrictor urethrae by the dorsal nerve of the penis. Actions.—The sphincters of the anus cause by their contraction occlusion of that aperture. The contraction of the external is usually maintained involun- tarily, though it may be rendered firmer by an act of the will ; that of the in- ternal is wholly involuntary. The levator ani and coccygcus act principally in supporting and to a slight ex- tent raising the floor of the pelvis. They thus come into play with the muscles of the abdominal wall in forcible expiratory and other expulsive efforts. The levator ani can also compress the lower part of the rectum, and in this way it assists directly in the evacuation of the bowel. The transversi acting together draw backwards and fix the central point of the perineum, thus assisting to give a base of support to the ejaculator muscles. The ischio-cavernosus serves to compress the crus penis and thus assists in pro- ducing or at least in maintaining the erection of the penis. The bulbo-cavernosi compress the bulb and the adjoining part of the corpus spongiosum, so as to eject forcibly any fluid lodged in the urethra. They come into action at the end of the process of micturition, when their contraction is mainly a voluntary act, and in the emission of the semen, when it is involun- tary. The constrictor urethra: diminishes the calibre of the urethra and expels its contents; it contracts at the end of micturition, so as to assist the bulbo- cavernosi in clearing the canal. According to Henle the constrictor takes also an important share in producing the erection of the penis, by compressing the veins of the corpora cavernosa, which are contained between its fibres. B.—In the female.—In this sex the anterior fibres of the levator ani embrace the vagina as they do the prostate in the male. The transversus perinei and the external sphincter are arranged essentially in the same manner as in the male. The erector clitoridis (ischio-cavernosus) differs from the erector penis of the male by its smaller size alone. The sphincter vaginse (bulbo-cavernosus) is attached behind to the a, clitoris ; b, crus clitoridis; c, is placed in the vestibule above the orifice of the urethra ; d, vagina ; x , anus ; e, coccyx ; 1, externai sphincter of the anus; 2, sphincter vaginfe ; 2', some of its fibres prolonged to the clitoris ; 3, levator ani ; 4, on the left ischial tuberosity, points to the transversus perinei (the inner portion of this muscle is represented too far forwards in the figure) ; 5, 6, ischio-cavernosus ; 7, gracilis ; 8, adductor magnus, semitendino- sus, Ac. ; 9, gluteus maximus. central point of the perineum, in common with the external sphincter and transversus perinei muscles ; its fibres open out to surround the vaginal orifice and vestibule, closely embracing on the outer side the two bulbs of the vestibule ; again approaching each other in front, they become narrow, and are inserted mainly upon the corpora cavernosa of the clitoris, a fasciculus crossing THE FEMALE. (A. T.) £