ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 426 to the interval between the second and third metacarpal bones, commu- nicates with the first superior perforating branch of the deep palmar arch, and descends on the second dorsal interosseous muscle to the level of tbe metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. It here sends forwards a slender inferior perforating branch to join the corresponding palmar digital artery, and ends by dividing into two dorsal digital branches which ramify on the adjacent margins of the index and middle fingers, as far as the base of the second phalanx, and anastomose on the sides of the fingers with the palmar collateral arteries. The second and third dorsal interosseous arteries, springing from the posterior carpal arch, are distributed in a similar manner in the third and fourth interdigital spaces, but their inferior perforating branches are often wanting. 3. The dorsal arteries of the thumb, two small branches, arising separately or together opposite the base of the metacarpal bone, run upon the dorsal aspect of the thumb-bones, one at the radial, the other at the ulnar border. 4. The dorsal artery of the index finger, a very small branch, arises below the preceding, and, sending branches to the abductor indicis, runs along the radial side of the back of the index finger. In the hand.—The radial artery, entering the palm between the heads of the abductor indicis muscle, immediately gives off, under cover of the deep part of the flexor brevis pollicis, the large artery of the thumb and the radial branch of the index finger, and turns inwards to form the deep palmar arch by inosculating with the deep branch of the ulnar artery. The large artery of the thumb (art. princeps pollicis') passes down- wards in front of the abductor indicis, between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the muscles covering it, to the space between the heads of the flexor brevis pollicis. At that point, and beneath the tendon of the long flexor, it divides into two collateral branches, which course along the borders of the phalanges, on their palmar aspect, and unite in front of the last phalanx, to form an arch similar in arrangement to that on the other fingers. The radial branch of the index finger (art. radialis indicis) descends between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis muscles, and continues along the radial border of the index finger, forming its radial collateral branch, and anastomosing in the usual manner on the last phalanx with the ulnar collateral branch derived from the superficial palmar arch. This artery sometimes arises by a common trunk with the foregoing, or more frequently is united with the inner collateral artery of the thumb. Varieties.—Origin.—In tlie observations of Richard Quain, the radial artery was found to arise higher up than usual in nearly one case in eight. Its origin was much more frequently from the axillary, or from the upper part of the brachial, than from the lower part of the latter artery. Low origin of the radial artery is much less frequent (see p. 413), but it has been found arising below the upper third of the forearm (Tiedemann, tab. 47, fig. 3). Course.—The radial artery more rarely deviates from its usual position along the forearm than the ulnar. It has been found lying upon the semilunar fascia of the biceps, and over the aponeurosis of the forearm instead of beneath those structures. It occasionally turns backwards over, instead of beneath, the tendons of the extensor muscles of the thumb ; and in rarer cases it has been seen passing backwards, over the supinator longus, above the middle of the forearm, and