COMPARISON OF SHOULDER AND PELVIC GIRDLES. 120 and lower limbs are respectively applied ; as, for example, in the upper limb of man, the breadth of the shoulders, caused by the interposition of the clavicle, the greater extent of motion in the shoulder joint, the eversion of the humerus, and the forward flexed attitude of the elbow-joint, the arrangements for pro- nation and supination by rotation of the radius and hand, and the opposability of the thumb, all have reference to the freedom, versatility, and precision of the movements of the upper limb as an organ of prehension and touch ; while in the lower limb, the comparatively fixed condition and arched form of the pelvic girdle, the greater strength of the bones, the close-fitting of the hip-joint, the inversion of the femur, the backward flexure of the knee-joint, the arched form of the foot, and non-opposability of the great toe, have all manifest relation to the support of the trunk and pelvis, and their movements upon the lower limbs. In the lower animals, greater modifications in the form of both limbs arc to be observed, obviously adapted to their different functions in each case. Without attempting to follow out this subject by any detailed reference to comparative anatomy or development, it may be useful to state here shortly the more probable conclusions which have been formed with respect to the homo- logical correspondence of the several parts of the upper and lower limbs.* Shoulder and Pelvic Girdles.—With respect to the attaching bones of the two limbs, it is generally held that the blade of the scapula corresponds with the ilium, each of them forming the dorsal section of their respective arches : and the greatest difference between them consisting in the scapula being entirely free from bony articulation with the vertebral column, and capable therefore of considerable motion, while the ilium is firmly jointed to the lateral mass of the sacrum. The ventral part of the shoulder-girdle, completed by the articulation of the clavicles with the sternum, presents no doubt at first sight some similarity to the meeting of the ossa pubis at the symphysis; and thus at one time the clavicle and the pubis were looked upon as homologous bones. But the fuller knowledge of comparative anatomy has more recently led to the adoption of a different view, according to which it appears more probable that the pubis represents rather the precoracoid of the Monotremata and of Reptiles, while, as before believed, the coracoid process of man, originally separate, and typically a distinct bone, is represented in the pelvic girdle by the ischium. Thus, then, it appears that the clavicle is not repeated in the lower limb girdle; and in the place of the very imperfect coracoid process of man and most mammals, there exists in the lower limb a double ventral branch (pubis and ischium) most probably corresponding morphologically to the precoracoid and coracoid of the Monotremata and Reptiles. The clavicle has, indeed, by some been held to be represented by Poupart’s ligament, but it seems on the whole more probable that there is no homologue of the clavicular arch in the lower limb. The marsupial bone of the pouched mammals does not represent the clavicle, but lies in the situation of the upper or mesial pillar of the external inguinal aperture. With regard to the comparison to be established between the individual parts of the scapula and ilium, still greater difficulty prevails than in the general determinations before mentioned. When looked at only in man, the iliac fossa appears at first sight to be the most obvious representative of the subscapular fossa ; while the dorsum ilii seems to contain within its limits parts correspond- ing to both the supra- and infraspinous fossae. But when our observation extends to a series of different animals, this view loses its apparent probability, and a different mode of comparison is forced upon us. It then appears obvious that the iliac fossa does not at least correspond to the subscapular; but the full deter- mination of the homologies of the different parts of the scapula and ilium, is one of the most difficult parts of this intricate subject. Two different views have lately been brought forward, the one supported by Flower, according to which the scapula and ilium are supposed to have undergone rotation with reference to the axis of the limbs in different directions, the scapula backwards, the ilium * It is right to mention that, while ill the comparison here given most British and European authors coincide, opinions widely different from these are held by several com- parative anatomists of distinction in America, among whom may be mentioned Agassiz, Wvman, Wilder, and Coues. VOL. X. K