VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 520 accompanied by the internal saphenous nerve. It inclines a /ittle backwards as it passes the inner condyle of the femur, and ascending along the inner and fore part of the thigh, following the course of the sartorius muscle, it passes through the saphenous Fig. 300. opening in the fascia lata to terminate in the , femoral vein. Fig. 300.—The internal saphenous vein. 1, saphenous opening in the fascia lata ; a, superficial epigastric vein ; b, external pudic ; c, superficial circumflex iliac ; d, external or short saphenous beginning on the dorsum of the foot. The internal saphenous vein communicates below the internal malleolus with the deep plantar veins, in the leg with the veins accom- panying the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and in the thigh one or more branches pass between it and the femoral vein. It is joined at its commencement by superficial branches from the inner part of the sole ; in its course upwards by numerous cutaneous branches from the leg and thigh ; and close to its termination by the superficial circumflex iliac, siiperficial epigastric, and external pudic veins, corresponding severally to the arteries of the same name, as well as in many cases by a large anterior branch which ascends in the thigh over the position of the femoral artery. There is also very frequently a posterior branch of considerable size, collecting blood from the inner and back parts of the thigh, and opening into the saphenous vein a little below its aperture in the fascia lata. The external or short saphenous vein, smaller than the internal, proceeds from the outer end of the arch on the dorsum of the foot. It passes behind the outer ankle, and ascends in the leg along the outer border of the tendo Achillis, in company with the external saphenous nerve, and then over the interval between the heads of the gastrocnemius to the lower part of the popliteal space, where it perforates the deep fascia to end in the popli teal vein. Opposite the ankle and along the leg it communicates with the deep veins ; and it receives superficial branches from the outer part of the foot and heel, and the back of the leg, as well as one which descends on the posterior surface of the thigh. A communicating branch passes from this vessel near its termination upwards and forwards to the internal saphenous vein, and sometimes the trunk itself follows this course, having no connection, or only a very small one, with the popliteal vein.