ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 456 6. The internal pudic artery (iv), one of the terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac, is distributed to the perineum and the external organs of generation. The following description of the artery has reference to its arrangement in the male, and the differences which it presents in the female will be afterwards pointed out. From its origin in front of the pyriformis muscle, the pudic artery descends along with the sciatic artery, and leaves the pelvis by the lower Fig. 272.—The arteries of the male pelvis, as seen on the removal of the left hip-bone, &c. (from R. Quain). | a, external oblique muscle divided ; b, internal oblique ; c, transversalis; d, d, the parts of the divided rectus ; e, psoas magnus divided ; /, placed on the auricular surface of the sacrum, points to the sacral plexus of nerves ; y, placed on the 03 pubis, sawn through a little to the left of the symphysis, points to the divided spermatic cord ; h, crus penis divided ; i, bulb of the urethra ; k, external sphincter muscle ; l, spine of the ischium with the small sacro-seiatic ligament; m, peritoneum ; n, upper part of the urinary bladder ; n', vas deferens ; n", ureter ; o, o, intestines ; 1, common iliac artery; 2, external iliac ; 3, internal iliac ; 4, obliterated hypogastric and superior vesical arte- ries ; 5, middle vesical; 6, inferior vesical artery; 7, placed on the sacral plexus, points to the common trunk of the pudic and sciatic arteries ; close above 7, the gluteal artery is seen cut short; 8, sciatic artery cut short; 9, placed on the rectum, the pudic artery as it is about to pass behind the spine of the ischium; 9', on the lower part of the rectum, the inferior hemorrhoidal branches; 9", the superficial perineal artery; 9"', placed on the prostate gland, the pudic artery in the fore part of the perineum, giving off the artery of the bulb, and finally dividing into the artery of the corpus cavernosurn and the dorsal arteiy of the penis; 10, placed on the middle part of the rectum, the superior hsemor- rhoidal arteiy. part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Then curving gradually for- wards, it crosses over the ischial spine and passes through the small sacro-sciatic foramen into the posterior division of the perineal space, where it lies along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, being placed from an inch to an inch and a half above the lower margin of the ischial tuberosity. Continuing its course forwards, it gradually approaches the margin of the ischial ramus, penetrates the base of the triangular ligament.