CRANIAL NERVES. 576 front of the flocculus to the middle compartment of the jugular foramen, through which it passes in company with the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, but in a separate tube of dura mater. In the foramen, where it is placed external to and somewhat in front of the other nerves, it is lodged in a groove, occasionally a canal, in the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and it presents, successively, two ganglionic enlargements :—the jugular ganglion and the petrous ganglion. After leaving the skull, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve appears between the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein, and is directed down- wards over the carotid artery and beneath the styloid process and the muscles connected with it, to the hinder border of the stylo-pharyngeus ; then curving gradually forwards, it crosses over the outer surface of the latter muscle, and passes beneath the hyo-glossus to end in branches for the hinder part of the tongue (fig. 329, 10). Fig. 327.—Diagrammatic sketch FROM BEHIND OF THE ROOTS OF THE NINTH, TENTH, AND ELEVENTH NERVES, WITH THEIR GANGLIA AND communications (from Bendz). A, part of tire cerebellum above the fourth ventricle ; B, medulla oblon- gata; 0, spinal cord; 1, glosso-pharyn- geal nerve; 2, pneumo-gastric; 3, 3, 3, spinal accessory ; 4, jugular ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal; 5, petrous ganglion ; 6, tympanic branch ; 7, ganglion of the root of the pneumo- gastric; S, auricular branch; 9, gang- lion of the trunk of the pneumo- gastric ; 10, branch from the upper ganglion to the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal; 11, inner por- tion of the spinal accessory; 12, outer portion; 13, pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric ; 14, 14, superior laryngeal branch ; 15, twigs con- nected with the sympathetic; 16, in- ternal part of the spinal accessory prolonged with the pneumo-gastric. The jugular ganglion is situated at the upper part of the osseous groove in which the nerve lies during its passage through the jugular foramen. It is from half a line to a line in length, and it includes only the lower filaments of the nerve, the upper ones forming a separate fasciculus which passes over the ganglion, and joins the trunk of the nerve below it. This ganglion is not always to be distinguished, and it is regarded by Henle and others as resulting, when present, from the more or less complete separation of a part of the petrous ganglion. The petrous ganglion is contained in a small depression at the lower end of the groove in the petrous part of the temporal bone, and measures from two to three lines in length. From it arise the small branches by which the glosso-pharyngeal is connected with other nerves at the base of the skull; these are the tympanic nerve, and the branches of communication with the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic. Branches.—A. Connecting branches and tympanic branch. Fig. 327.