671 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF TILE HEAD AND NECK. molar tooth, and just in front of this is situated the opening of the posterior palatine canal, through which the largest vessels and nerves of the palate issue. The pterygo-maxillary ligament is to he felt descending from the hamular process to the inferior maxilla, being contained in a more or less .prominent fold of the mucous membrane, which passes between the jaws behind the extremities of the dental arches. Just in front of this, and immediately internal to the last molar tooth, the lingual branch of the fifth nerve runs inwards beneath the mucous membrane to the side of the tongue. Between the posterior pillars of the fauces, a portion of the mucous lining of the hinder wall of the pharynx is seen ; and if the finger be passed behind the tongue, there is no difficulty in feeling the remainder of the back of the pharynx and the epiglottis. By hooking the finger up behind the soft palate, the basilar process of the occipital bone is reached, and the posterior nares and adjacent parts may be explored. In this way also the bodies of the upper cervical vertebrae may be ex- amined, the anterior arch of the atlas being opposite the lower margin of the posterior nares, and the axis corresponding to the soft palate. THE NECK. The front of the neck is divided into an upper, suprahyoid, sul- maxillary, or lujo-mmtal region, and a lower, infrahyoid or hyo-sternal region. The hyoid bone, which forms the boundary line between the two divisions, can be felt in the receding angle below the chin, and it may be examined by fixing the two great cornua between the fingers. The anterior bellies of the digastric muscles form the convex surface in the middle of the suprahyoid region, and outside this on each side the submaxillary gland is both to be felt and seen. The median prominence (pomum Addmi) in the upper part of the infrahyoid region is due to the thy- roid cartilage, and is strongly marked in men, especially those with deep voices, small or indistinct in women and children. Above the thyroid cartilage the finger sinks into the depression (thyro-hyoid space) between that and the hyoid bone ; below the thyroid, the crico-thyroid space and the cricoid cartilage are recognised; and from the latter the finger passes on to the trachea. The rings of the trachea are, however, scarcely to be distinguished, being obscured above by the isthmus of the thyroid body, and below by the muscles and the increasing quantity of fat as the airtube recedes from the surface, the depth of the front of the trachea at the upper border of the sternum amounting to nearly an inch and a half. The lower part of the epiglottis is placed behind the thyro-hyoid space, and still farther back is the upper aperture of the larynx. The rima glottidis is at a lower level, being opposite the middle of the short anterior margin of the thyroid cartilage. The lower border of the cricoid cartilage indicates also the termination of the pharynx and the commencement of the oesophagus. Along the side of the neck, the sterno-mastoid muscle runs obliquely from the mastoid part of the temporal bone to the sternum and clavicle; its anterior border, forming the hinder boundary of the anterior triangle of the neck, is thick and prominent, and leads down to the strongly marked sternal head, which passes to the front of the manubrium and gives rise, Avitli its fellow of the opposite side, to the deep suprasternal notch. The posterior border of the muscle is thin, and in its upper part does not sIioav on the surface ; interiorly it becomes evident and is con-