621 LUMBAR NERVES. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve, passing- through both oblique muscles, is directed downwards over the iliac crest to the integument covering the fore part of the gluteal region, some filaments reaching as far as the great trochanter of the femur. LUMBAR NERVES. The anterior divisions of the lumbar nerves increase in size from the first to the fifth ; and all, except the fifth, which passes down to join the sacral nerves, are connected together in loops, so as to form the lumbar plexus. On leaving the intervertebral foramina, the nerves are connected by filaments with the cord of the sympathetic, these filaments being longer than those connected with other spinal nerves, in consequence of the position of the lumbar sympathetic ganglia on the fore part of the bodies of the vertebrae. In the same situation small twigs are furnished to the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles. LUMBAR PLEXUS. The lumbar plexus is formed by the communications between the anterior primary divisions of the four upper lumbar nerves. It is placed in the substance of the psoas muscle, in front of the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebra?. Above, the plexus is narrow, and is usually connected with the last dorsal nerve by a small offset from that nerve, named dorsi-lumbar ; below, it is wider, and is joined to the sacral plexus by means of a branch passing from the fourth lumbar nerve to the fifth. The arrangement of the plexus may be thus stated. The first nerve gives off the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, and sends down- wards a communicating branch to the second nerve. The second furnishes-the greater part of the genito-crural and external cutaneous nerves, and gives a connecting branch to the third, from which some of the fibres of the anterior crural and obturator nerves are derived. From the third nerve two branches proceed; one of these, the larger, forms part of the anterior crural nerve ; the other, a part of the obturator nerve. The fourth nerve gives three branches, two of which serve to complete the obturator and anterior crural nerves, while the third ■ is a connecting branch to the fifth nerve, and enters into the formation of the sacral plexus. The branches of the lumbar plexus form two sets, which are dis- tributed, one to the lower part of the wall of the abdomen, the other to the fore part and inner side of the lower limb. In the former set are the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, and part of the genito- crural ; and to the latter belong the remaining part of the genito-crural nerve, the external cutaneous, the obturator, and the anterior crural nerves. Ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves.—These nerves are the upper two branches from the lumbar plexus ; they are both derived from the first lumbar nerve, and have a nearly similar distribution. They become subcutaneous by passing between and through the broad muscles of the abdomen, and end in the integument of the groin and scrotum in the male, and the labium pudendi in the female, as well as in the integument of the gluteal region. The extent of distribution of the one is inversely proportional to that of the other.