455 OBTURATOR ARTERY. When the obturator artery arises from the epigastric, it turns backwards into the pelvis to reach the canal at the upper part of the thyroid foramen ; and in this course it is necessarily close to the crural ring, the opening situated at the inner side of the external iliac vein, through which hernial protrusions descend from the abdomen into the thigh. Out of 101 cases observed by R. Quain, the artery turned backwards close to the external iliac vein, and therefore on the outer side of the crural ring, in 54 ; it passed backwards across the ring in 37 ; and in the remaining 10 it was directed at first inwards, and then arched backwards on the inner side of the ring : the point at which this artery separated from the epigastric was not found to exercise any influence upon its relation to the crural ring (oj?. cit., pp. 451-451). It is when the artery is placed on the inner side of tho ring that it is liable to be wounded in the operation for dividing the stricture in a femoral hernia. The anastomosis which normally exists between the pubic branches of the obturator and epigastric arteries explains the nature of the change which takes place when the origin of the obturator artery is transferred from the one place to the other. In such cases one of the anas- tomosing vessels may be supposed to have become enlarged, and the poste- rior or proper root of the obturator artery to have remained undeveloped or to have become obliterated in a proportionate degree. The obturator artery has also been seen to arise from the upper part of the femoral, either alone or in conjunction with the internal circumflex artery, in which case it arches backwards over the superior ramus of the pubis, and through the crural ring, to reach the thyroid foramen. In a few cases the obturator artery has been observed giving off the epigastric artery, an accessory pudic artery (within the pelvis), or the dorsal artery of the penis (in the thyroid foramen). Fig. 271, A. and B.—Views OP THE LEFT HIP-BONE, WITH THE ATTACHED ABDO- MINAL MUSCLES, FROM THE INSIDE, SHOWING DIFFERENT POSITIONS OF THE ABERRANT OBTURATOR ARTERY. (R Quain.) -J In A, the aberrant artery passes to the outer side of a femoral hernia ; in B, it sur- rounds the neck of the sac. a, rectus muscle ; b, iliacus muscle ; c, symphysis pubis ; d, obturator membrane ; e, placed on the transversalis fascia, points to the vas deferens passing through the internal abdominal ring ; f, testicle; +, neck of a femoral hernial sac ; 1, external iliac artery ; 2, external iliac vein; below 2, the obturator nerve ; 3, epigastric artery, giving off 4, the aberrant obturator artery. Fig. 271.