452 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. branches of this artery are sometimes described separately under the name of middle vesical. 2. The inferior vesical artery (v) (vesico-prostatic), derived usually from the anterior division of the internal iliac, is directed down- wards to the base of the bladder, where it ends in branches which are distributed to the lower part of that organ, to the prostate, and to the vesiculae seminales. The branches to the prostate communicate more or less freely upon that body with the artery of the opposite side, and by Fig. 269. Fig. 269.—View op the viscera op the male pelvis prom the left side, showing THE VESICAL AND PUDIC ARTERIES (from R. Quaill). y a, os pubis, divided a little to the left of the symphysis ; b, placed close to the upper part of the bladder, upon which lies the vas deferens ; c, placed on the upper part of the rectum, near the left ureter; c', at the junction of the middle and lower parts of the rectum, points to the vesicula seminalis ; c", anus ; d, bulb of the urethra ; e, crus penis divided; /, small sacro-sciatic ligament, attached to the spine of the ischium; 1, common iliac artery; 2, internal iliac artery; S, gluteal artery cut short ; 4, common trunk of the sciatic and pudic arteries ; 4', sciatic artery, cut as it is passing out of the great sacro- sciatic foramen ; 5, placed on the divided surface of the ischial spine, points to the pudic artery as it is about to enter the perineum by the small sacro-sciatic foramen ; 5', superficial perineal branch of the pudic; 5", pudic artery, giving off the artery of the bulb, and proceeding at 6, to divide into the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the penis ; 7, placed on the middle part of the rectum, points to the descending branches of the superior hsemorrhoidal artery; 8, 8, ramifications of the superior vesical artery; 9, inferior vesical artery, of considerable size in this instance, giving branches to the bladder, the vesicula seminalis, the rectum (middle kremorrhoidal), and 9', to the prostate gland. small descending twigs also with the arteries of the perineum (Haller). It occasionally happens that one of the latter offsets is much enlarged, and replaces one or more branches of a defective pudic artery, as will be more fully noticed in the description of that vessel. One slender but constant branch, the artery of the vas deferens (vi), arising from either the superior or inferior vesical artery, sends one or more twigs downwards to the lower part of the vas deferens and the vesicula seminalis, and is then continued forwards along the vas