SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 663 The small cavernous nerves (Mtiller) perforate the fibrous covering of the corpus cavernosum near the root of the penis, and end in the erectile substance. The large cavernous nerve, which extends forwards on the dorsum of the penis, and dividing, gives filaments that penetrate the corpus cavernosum, and pass with or near the cavernous artery. As it con- tinues onwards, this nerve joins with the dorsal branch of the pudic nerve about the middle of the penis, and is distributed to the corpus cavernosum. Branches from the foregoing nerves reach the corpus spongiosum urethrae. (Muller, “ Ueber die organischen Nerven der erectilen mannlichen Geschlechtsorgane, ” &c. Berlin, 183G.) Vaginal plexus.—The nerves furnished to the vagina leave the lower part of the pelvic plexns—that part with which the spinal nerves are more particularly combined. They are distributed to the vagina without previously entering into a plexiform arrangement; and they end in the erectile tissue on the lower and anterior part, and in the mucous membrane. Nerves of the uterus.—These nerves are derived mainly from the lateral fasciculus prolonged to the pelvic plexus from the hypo- gastric plexus, but some filaments are also added from the third and fourth sacral nerves. They are directed upwards with the blood-vessels, between the layers of the broad ligament, along the side of the organ, and some slender filaments accompany the branches of the uterine artery, but the larger number of the nerves sink directly into the substance of the uterus, penetrating for the most part its neck and the lower portion of its body. They form connections in the broad ligament with the ovarian nerves, and the fundus of the uterus also receives an offset from that plexus. Numerous ganglia are contained in the plexus by the side of the cervical portion of the uterus, but they have not been found in its muscular substance. One branch, continued directly from the common hypogastric plexus, reaches the hinder surface of the body of the uterus above the rest ; and a nerve from the same source ascends to the Fallo- pian tube. (Fr. Tiedemann, “Tab. Nerv. Uteri,” Heidelberg, 1823 ; Robert Lee, in Phil. Trans. 1841, 1842, 184G, and 1849 ; Snow Beck, in Phil. Trans., 1846, part ii.; and F. Frankenhauser, “ Die Nerven der Gebarmutter,” 18G7.) The nerves of the gravid uterus have been frequently investigated, with a view to discover if they become enlarged along with the increase in size of the organ. It is ascertained that the increase which takes place is confined, for the most part to the thickening of the fibrous envelopes of the nerves ; but it appears also, from the researches of Kilian, that fibres furnished with a medullary sheath, which in the un- impregnated state of the uterus lose that sheath as they proceed to their distribution, in the impregnated condition of the uterus continue to be surrounded with it as they run between the muscular fibres. (Farre, in Supplement of Cyclopcedia of Anat. and Phys., “Uterus and Ap- pendages.”)