THE KNEE-JOINT. 173 The posterior ligament is broad and membranous, and passes from the upper part of the intercondylar fossa of the femur to the posterior margin of the head of the tibia. It is in great part formed by an expan- sion from the tendon of the semimembranosus, which is directed upwards and outwards towards the external condyle of the femur, and the outer head of the gastrocnemius muscle. The ligamentum patellae is a strong flat band, attached superiorly to the apex and lower border of the patella, and interiorly to the tubercle of the tibia. Between the tibia and the ligament, near its insertion, is placed a synovial bursa. If the patella be considered a sesamoid bone, this ligament must be regarded as part of the tendon of the quadriceps extensor cruris muscle. The crucial ligaments, placed in the centre of the joint, pass from the sides of the intercondylar fossa to the spaces in front of and behind the spine of the tibia. They decussate somewhat like the lines of the letter X. The anterior or external ligament is fixed by its lower extremity to the inner part of the depression before the spine of the tibia, and by its upper extremity it is inserted into the inner and hinder- part of the external condyle of the femur ; hence its direction is upwards, backwards, and outwards. The posterior or internal ligament is attached interiorly to the back of the depression behind the tibial spine and superiorly to the lower part of the outer surface of the internal condyle, as well as to the adjacent part of the intercondylar fossa of the femur ; its fibres are directed upwards and a little forwards and inwards. The semilunar fibro-cartilages are two crescent-shaped plates, placed on the articulating surfaces of the head of the tibia, and inter- posed between these and the condyles of the femur. They have each a smooth free surface above and below, and a convex border, which is thick, while the concave border is thinned to a fine edge, and the part of the articular surface of the tibia within the concave border of each Fig. 145,—View of toe semilunar fibro- cartilages OF TIIE RIGHT KNEE-JOINT, FROM ABOVE, WITH THE CRUCIAL LIGAMENTS DIVIDED, AND THE LIGAMENTUM I'ATELLSG TURNED FOR- WARDS. (A. T.) g 1, ligamentum patellae ; 2, inner, 3, outer fibro- cartilage ; 4, placed on the tibia in front of the transverse ligament; 5, cut end of the anterior crucial ligament; 6, cut end of the posterior crucial ligament, from which fibres are seen descending to the outer fibro-cartilage ; 6', tibial attachment of the posterior crucial ligament; 7, head of the fibula; 8, cartilage-covered surface of the tibia, which extends for some way downwards towards the tibio-fibular articulation. Fig. 145. cartilage is left uncovered. At their extremities they are fibrous, and are firmly fixed to the head of the tibia, whilst by the circumference they are connected with the fibrous capsule of the joint. The internal semilunar fibro-cartilage forms about a semicircle ; its anterior extremity is small and pointed, and is inserted into an im- pression at the fore and inner part of the hollow before the spine of the tibia ; its posterior end is attached to the inner edge of the hollow behind the spine, in front of the posterior crucial ligament. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage forms nearly a complete