420 ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. a transverse branch (Gruber, Reich. Arch., 1871). See, on this subject, the remarks on the varieties of the axillary and brachial arteries. Fig. 255. Fig. 255.—High origin and superficial course of the ulnar artery (from It. Quain, and from a preparation in Allen Thomson’s collection). \ a, biceps muscle covered by the deep fascia; 6, b, fascia of the forearm, which has been opened in a considerable extent to show the radial artery subjacent to it; c, median nerve; d, ulnar nerve ; 1, on the biceps muscle, points to the brachial artery after having given off the ulnar artery higher up, and dividing at 1', into the radial artery and a deep vessel corresponding to the interosseous and a part of the normal ulnar ; 2, on the supinator longus muscle, points to the radial artery ; 3, 3, artery which is given off by the brachial in the arm, and which descending upon the fascia takes the pdace of the ulnar at the wrist; 3', the same continued into the superficial palmar arch, giving off digital branches in the usual manner, and joined by 4, the superficial volar branch of the radial; 5, 5, digital branches. Course.—The position of the ulnar artery in the forearm is more frequently altered than that of the radial. In cases of high origin, it almost invariably descends over the muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus, only one exception to this rule having been met with by R. Quain (pi. 36, fig. 2). In one instance the ulnar artery taking this course divided just below the elbow into a superficial and deep branch (Gruber, loc. cit.). Most commonly in such cases it is covered by the fascia of the forearm; but instances also occur in which the artery rests on the fascia, and either continues in that position or again sinks beneath the fascia lower down, while the vessel thus disposed is distributed below after the manner of the normal ulnar artery. The vessel from which the high ulnar separates is afterwards divided into the radial artery and the interosseous ; it appears therefore probable that the abnormal arrangement results from early obstruction of the ulnar artery below the origin of the interosseous, and the development of a superficial vas aberrans, which unites the portion of vessel below the obstruction with the axillary or brachial trunk. The interosseous artery in such cases of abnor- mality thus comprises not only the ordinary inter- osseous branch, but likewise the portion of ulnar artery above the obstruction ; and, in accordance with this view, we find that the recurrent branches are derived from it. The ulnar artery has been seen occasionally taking a superficial course when arising in the usual situation, and in these cases also the recurrent and interosseous arteries are given off by the radial trunk. As to size, the ulnar artery presents some varieties which are generally accompanied by deviations of an opposite and compensating character in the A '//A ill