216 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. through the opening formed for its transmission in the tendon of the flexor sublimis, and it is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Relations.—The upper extremity of the flexor profundus embraces the insertion of the brachialis anticus. In the forearm the muscle is covered by the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor sublimis digitorum, and Fig. 166. on its surface lie the median nerve and the ulnar vessels and nerve. The external border is adjacent to the flexor longus pollicis, from which it is se- parated on the interosseous membrane by the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. Fig. 166.—Deep anterioe muscles of the forearm. (A. T.) J The superficial muscles of the forearm and hand, together with the lumbricales, have been removed, and the place of the anterior annular ligament of the carpus is marked by two dotted lines, a, surface of the humerus above the coronoid fossa ; b, coronoid process of the ulna ; c, head of the radius covered by the orbicular ligament; +, internal lateral ligament of the elbow- joint ; d, lower end of the radius ; e, that of the ulna ; /, scaphoid and trapezium bones ; 1, supinator brevis ; 2, flexor longuS pollicis ; 3, flexor profundus digitorum ; 3', its four tendons, where they are about to pass under the annular ligament; 4, pronator quadratus on the lower part of the radius; 5, deep part of flexor brevis pollicis ; 6, adductor pollicis ; 7,first dorsal interosseous muscle ; 8, in the second space, is placed between the first palmar and the second dorsal interosseous muscles ; in the third space, between the third dorsal and the second palmar ; in the fourth space, between the fourth dorsal and the third palmar. (For the lumbricales, see figs. 167 and 172.) The lumbricales muscles are four tapering fleshy fasciculi, passing from the tendons of the flexor profundus to the tendons of the common extensor. Each muscle rises by fleshy fibres from the outer or radial border of one of the deep flexor tendons, and in the case of the two inner muscles/ also from the ulnar border of the second and third, and proceeding downwards and then backwards on the radial sides of the fingers, each is in- serted into the expansion of the extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx. Varieties.—The flexor profundus often presents varieties in its origin, deriving fibres from the radius in some instances, a distinct slip from the coronoid process of the ulna in others, and more rarely from the inner condyle of the humerus. It is not unfrequently connected with the flexor sublimis, or with the flexor longus pollicis. The slip from the coronoid process constitutes in numerous cases an accessory or supplemental muscle which joins very variously one or more of the perforating tendons. Varieties of the lumbricales muscles are of frequent occurrence. Their number is sometimes diminished to three, and in rare instances is increased to five or six. The destination of one or two of them is often changed, and one finger (most