ARTICULATIONS OF TIIE TRUNK AND HEAD. ing in the supraspinous ligament. posterior occipito-atlantal ligament ; 5, 5, supra- PART OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN, AND PART 242 Fig. 117. Fig. 117.'—Sagittal section op the upper from its inferior margin, and inferiorly to the upper margin and part of the posterior surface of the vertebra beneath. They are most dis- tinctly seen when the arches are detached from the bodies of the verte- bras, and they are viewed from the front. Posteriorly they appear short, and in the dorsal region are concealed by the prominent inferior margins OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE, SHOWING THE AR- TICULATIONS. (A. T."after Arnold.) 1, 1, anterior common ligament; 1', anterior occipito-atlantal ligament; 2, from this figure upwards the posterior common ligament; 2', the continuation of the preceding or posterior occipito- axial ligament lying on the basilar process of the occipital bone; 3, 3, 3, these figures are placed on the inside of the arches of the 2nd cervical and 1st and 6th dorsal vertebra; ; the ligamenta subflava are seen stretching between the laminae; 4, 4, placed upon two of the interspinous liga- ments ; 4', divided edge of the occipital bone behind the foramen magnum, and below it, the spinous ligament; 6, ligamentum nuchae ; x , its upper extremity at the external occipital pro- tuberance ; x x , its lower extremity terminat- of the laminae aud the roots of the spines. Their outer margins are close to the articular processes ; their inner margins are thickened and in contact with each other beneath the root of the spinous process. The interspinous ligaments, thin and rather membranous, have an at- tachment extending from the root to near the summit of each spinous process, and connect the inferior border of one with the superior border of that next Mow it. They are strongest in the lumbar region, and are least de- veloped in the neck. The supraspinous ligament consists of bundles of longitudinal fibres, which connect the summits of the spinous processes, and form a continuous cord from the seventh cervical vertebra to the sacrum. The superficial fibres pass down from a given vertebra to the third or fourth below it; those more deeply seated reach only from one to the next, or the second below it. The ligamentum nuchas is the continuation upwards of the supra- spinous ligament. It is, in the human subject, a thin intermuscular septum of elastic and white fibrous tissue, the most superficial part of which extends from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra to the external occipital protuberance, while the deeper fibres, springing from the same origin, pass to the occipital crest, and the spines of the six upper vertebra;. It is the representative of a strong elastic structure which suspends the head in the lower animals. The intertranswerse ligaments are unimportant bands extending