ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 480 Small branches also perforate the interosseous membrane, and are dis- tributed to the extensor longus digitorum and peroncus tertius muscles (Hyrtl). ( b) A medullary artery enters the fibula. (c) The communicating branch, lying close behind the tibia about an inch from its lower end, is a branch of variable size, which connects the peroneal and posterior tibial arteries, and also sends small twigs beneath the muscles to ramify over the inner side of the lower part of the tibia. This branch is sometimes wanting. (d) The anterior peroneal artery (v), arising from an inch to an inch and a half above the ankle joint, passes forwards below the inter- osseous membrane, and descends in front of the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the tarsus. It communicates with the external malleolar branch of the anterior tibial artery, and supplies offsets to the peroncus tertius muscle, and the articulations of the ankle ; its terminal branches anastomose with the posterior peroneal and tarsal arteries. (e) The terminal branches of the posterior peroneal artery (external calcaneal) anastomose with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries on the outer side of the foot; and over the heel with the internal calcaneal branches of the external plantar artery. Varieties.—The posterior tibial artery, as well as the anterior tibial, is lengthened in those instances in which the popliteal artery divides higher up than usual. Not unfrequently the posterior tibial artery is diminished in size, and is subsequently reinforced, either by a transverse branch from the peroneal in the lower part of the leg, or, more rarely, by two transverse vessels, one crossing close to the bone, and the other over the deep muscles. In other instances the posterior tibial may exist only as a short muscular trunk in the upper part of the leg, or may be entirely wanting, while an enlarged peroneal artery takes its place from above the ankle downwards into the foot. One or two internal calcaneal branches are frequently given off from the lower end of the posterior tibial artery. The posterior tibial artery is occasionally covered in the lower third of the leg by muscle, which may be an accessory long flexor of the toes (p. 258), or a slip of the soleus (p. 255). The peroneal artery has been found to arise lower down than usual, about three inches below the popliteus muscle ; and, on the contrary, it sometimes arises higher up from the posterior tibial, or even from the end of the popliteal artery. In some cases of high division of the popliteal artery, the peroneal artery is transferred to the anterior tibial. It more frequently exceeds than falls short of the ordinary dimensions, being enlarged to reinforce the posterior tibial. In those rare instances in which it is lost before reaching the lower part of the leg, a branch of the posterior tibial takes its place. Absence of the peroneal artery has been recorded by Otto and W. Krause, but these cases are explained by Barkow, as being correctly suppression of the posterior tibial artery between the origin of the peroneal and the communicating branch. The anterior peroneal branch is sometimes enlarged to compensate for the small size of the anterior tibial artery in the lower part of the leg, or to supply the place of that artery on the dorsum of the foot; or it may be absent and be replaced by the external mal- leolar branch of the anterior tibial. PLANTAR ARTERIES. The internal and external plantar arteries are the branches into which the posterior tibial divides, immediately below the internal annular