MORPHOLOGY OF THE BOXES OF THE LIMBS. 128 tarsal bone there is also to be observed, as in the first metacarpal (see p. 103), a tendency to the formation of a second or distal epiphysis (A. Thomson). In the metatarsal bones the nuclei of the shafts appear in the Sth or 9th week. The epiphyses appear from the 3rd to the Sth year, and unite with the shafts from the 18th to the 20th year. The nuclei of the shafts of the phalanges appear in the 9th or 10th week. The epiphyses appear from the 4th to the 8th year, and unite with the shafts from the 19th to the 21st year. MORPHOLOGY OP THE BONES OF THE LIMBS. Relation to the Axial Skeleton.—Anatomists have generally agreed to look upon the relation which the bones of the limbs bear to the rest of the skeleton as that of appendages to the trunk, hence their distinction as appendicular parts of the axial skeleton ; and most are also disposed to regard these appendages as similar radiations or extensions from one or more of the vertebral segments in two determinate situations of the trunk. But opinions are still divided as to the typical number of the vertebral somatomes which are involved, and as to the exact mor- phological nature of the parts which form the radiations. The existence in both of a supporting arch in relations somewhat resembling those of the ribs, and the division of this arch at the first joints of the limbs (shoulder and hip-joints) into an upper or dorsal and a lower or ventral section are easily recognised; in the lower limb the dorsal being firmly attached to the side of the sacrum, while in the upper, the ventral part of the arch abuts on the sternum. But it does not appear to be yet determined in the case of the pelvic arch what is the exact morphological nature of the lateral.mass of the sacrum, and in both limbs it is still doubtful what is the precise homological relation of the arch to the vertebras. The fact, however, that a quinquifid division of the peripheral parts of both limbs is constant in man and a certain number of animals, and that in no animals above fishes is there a greater number of elements than five, while in many animals some of the elements may be absent or abortive, together with the remarkably regular passage of a certain number of spinal nerves from the trunk to the limb, of which five are of considerable size in man and those animals possessing the limb elements complete, appears favourable to the view that both limbs have prolonged into them the elements of five vertebral segments, and it is generally held that these elements follow each other in a similar order in the two limbs from the cephalic to the caudal part of the vertebral axis, so that the pollex and radial elements occupy the cephalic side of the upper, while the hallux and tibia take the same place in the lower limb. (See Owen “ On the Nature of Limbs,” Goodsir “ On the Morphological Constitution of Limbs,” in Edin. New Philos. Journ., 1857.) Homological Comparison of Upper and Lower Limbs.—A certain anato- mical correspondence between the upper and lower limbs, which is apparent to common observation, is admitted in even a fuller degree by most scientific anatomists as the result of a careful comparison of the form, structure, and relations of their bones, as well as of their other parts. But very different views have been taken of the nature and extent of the comparison which may be made between them. Thus Vicq d’Azyr compared the bones of the upper limb of one side of the body to the bones of the lower limb of the other; and Bourgery and Cruveilhier regarded the upper end of the tibia as homologous with that of the ulna, while they compared its lower end to that of the radius. But all such fanciful views have now yielded to the fuller appreciation of hour ological correspondence which has resulted from a more careful comparison of structure in a wide series of animals, and the study' of their transformations in enbryonic development; and thus the general conclusion has been formed, that the thoracic and pelvic limbs are constructed on the same general type in man and animals, both as regards the attaching girdles of the shoulder and pelvis, and in the three several sections of which each limb is composed. There are, however, certain modifications of that general plan, leading to considerable differences in the form, size, and number of the individual parts in different animals, which appear to be in a great measure related to the different uses to which the upper