41 TEMPORAL BONE. and internal to the carotid foramen is a rough free surface which is con- tinued into the inner extremity, or apex of the petrous bone. The carotid canal ascends at first perpendicularly, then turns horizontally forwards and inwards, and emerges at the apex, close to the anterior margin ; it transmits the internal carotid artery. The posterior surface looks backwards and inwards, and forms part of the posterior fossa in the base of the skull. It presents a large orifice leading into a short canal which is directed outwards, the internal auditorij meatus. This canal is terminated by a plate of bone, the lamina cribrosa, presenting in the lower part small apertures through which the divisions of the auditory nerve pass, while in its upper part is the commencement of the canal called aqueduct of Fallopius, which transmits the facial nerve. This canal takes a somewhat circuitous course through the petrous bone, passing outwards and backwards over the labyrinth of the ear, and then downwards to terminate at the stylo-mastoid foramen. The anterior or upper surface looks upwards and forwards, and forms part of the middle fossa in the base of the skull. A depression near the apex marks the position of the Gasserian ganglion. A narrow groove rims obliquely backwards and outwards to a foramen named the hiatus Fallopii, which leads to the aqueduct of Fallopius, and transmits the large superficial petrosal nerve. Farther back is a rounded eminence, indicating the situation of the superior semicircular canal. The line of separation of this surface of the petrous from the internal surface of the squamous is always marked by a narrow fissure, petrosquamous, com- mencing' anteriorly at the retiring angle between the two portions, and generally to be traced less distinctly to the posterior border of the bone. The portion of bone between this fissure externally and the eminence of the superior semi- circular canal and the hiatus Fallopii internally is a thin lamina, often perforated, which roofs in the tympanum and the common canal of the Eustachian tube and tensor tympani muscle, and is known as the tegmen tympani. The superior border is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus. The anterior border is very short, and forms at its junction with the squamous part an angle in which is situated the orifice of the Eustachian canal, the osseous portion of a tube of the same name, which leads from the pharynx to the tympanum; and above this, partially separated from it by a thin lamella, the processus cochlear if or mis, is a small passage which lodges the tensor tympani muscle. The posterior border internal to the jugular fossa articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone, and forms with that the groove for the inferior petrosal sinus. Small Foramina.—The opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule is a narrow fissure, covered by a depressed scale of bone, and situated on the posterior surface of the petrous bone, about four lines outside the internal auditory meatus; that of the aqueduct of the cochlea is a small foramen, beginning in a three-sided wider depression in the posterior margin, directly below the internal auditory meatus. In the plate between the jugular fossa and the carotid canal is the foramen by which the nerve of Jacobson passes to the tympanum. In the ascending part of the carotid canal is the minute foramen for the tympanic branch of the carotid plexus. In the jugular fossa are a groove and foramen for the auricular branch of the vagus nerve; and parallel to the hiatus Fallopii, close to the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, are a groove and foramen for the small superficial petrosal nerve. The so-called fissure of Glaser is for the most part closed, but near the inner end a small orifice is left leading to the tympanic cavity, and which contains the slender process of the malleus, the laxator tympani muscle, and the tympanic branch of