LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 537 sets, anterior and posterior. The anterior lymphatics pass forwards in the intercostal spaces and enter the sternal glands. The posterior or intercostal lymphatics run backwards with the intercostal vessels, receive opposite the intervals between the transverse processes accessions from the muscles of the back and the spinal canal, and terminate in the inter- costal glands. The lymphatics of the heart follow the coronary arteries from the apex of the organ towards the base, where they communicate together, and those of each side are gathered into one trunk. The trunk from the right side ascends along the aorta and enters a gland in front of or immediately above the arch of that vessel; the left trunk runs along the pulmonary artery to its bifurcation, and terminates in some glands behind the arch of the aorta. The lymphatics of the lungs, like those of the viscera generally, form two sets, one being superficial, the other deep-seated. Those at the surface are numerous and form a network beneath the pleura. The deep lymphatics run with the pulmonary blood-vessels and the bronchial tubes. The vessels of both sets converge to the root of the lung and terminate in the bronchial glands. The lymphatics of the oesophagus form only a single plexus between the muscular and mucous coats. The trunks emerging from this plexus perforate the muscular wall and terminate in the glands of the posterior mediastinum. The lymphatics of the thymus gland are numerous and large. They enter the glands of the superior mediastinum, and, according to Astley Cooper, two large vessels proceed, one from each lateral lobe, to open by one or more orifices into the internal jugular veins. LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER LIMB. In the upper limb, as in the lower, the lymphatics are arranged in a deep and a superficial set. These two sets of vessels, together with the superficial lymphatics of the greater part of the back and of the chest, converge to the axillary glands. The lymphatic glands found in the upper limb below the axilla are neither large nor numerous ; a few, however, are found in the course of the brachial artery, and occasionally even of the arteries of the forearm ; two or more small glands are sometimes found in connection with the superficial lymphatics at the bend of the elbow, and one or two, more constantly, near the commencement of the basilic vein, a little above and in front of the inner condyle of the humerus. The axillary glands are generally ten or twrelve in number ; they vary, however, considerably in their number as well as in their size, in different individuals : they are mostly placed along the axillary vessels, and receive the lymphatics which ascend from the limb ; but a few (pectoral (/lands) also lie farther forwards on the serratus magnus near the long thoracic artery, at the lower border of the pectoral muscles, and receive the lymphatics from the mamma and front of the chest; while others (subscapular glands) are situated at the back of the axilla, along the subscapular vessels, and are joined by the lymphatics from the back. One or two small glands (infraclavicidar) are also found immediately below the clavicle in the hollow between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles; they receive some lymphatics from the outer side of the arm