ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 478 arising- here, so that a ligature cannot be safely applied to this part of the vessel. In its upper part the artery may be reached either by making an incision on the inner side of the thigh in its lower third, and then separating the sartorius and inner hamstring muscles from the tendon of the adductor magnus, or by dividing the integument in the middle line of the limb posteriorly, and then turning in- wards the semimembranosus muscle. In an operation upon the lower part of the artery, the incision would have to be carried between the heads of the gastro- cnemius muscle, care being taken to avoid the external saphenous vein. POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (III). The posterior tibial artery, the larger of the two vessels resulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal, lies along the back of the leg, between the superficial and deep muscles of this part, being closely bound down to those of the latter group by the fascia which covers them. It extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the lower bor- der of the internal annular ligament, where it divides, on a level with a line drawn from the point of the internal malleolus to the centre of the con- vexity of the heel (Wyeth), into the internal and external plantar arteries. Situated at its origin opposite the interval between the tibia and fibula, the artery approaches the inner side of the leg as it descends, and lies behind the tibia ; at its lower end it is placed midway between the inner malleolus and the prominence of the heel. Very deeply seated at the upper part, where it is covered by the fleshy portions of the gastro- cnemius and soleus muscles, it becomes superficial in the lower third of the leg, being there covered only by the integument and two layers of fascia, and by the annular ligament behind the inner malleolus. At its termination the artery is placed beneath the origin of the abductor hallucis muscle. It lies successively upon the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and, at its lower end, directly on the tibia and the ankle-joint. Behind the ankle, the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum lie between the artery and the internal malleolus ; while the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis is to its outer side. Relation to the veins and nerve.—The posterior tibial artery is accompanied by two venae comites. The posterior tibial nerve is at first on the inner side of the artery, but as soon as the latter has given off its peroneal branch, the nerve crosses over the vessel and is continued down on its outer side. Beneath the internal annular ligament the artery is frequently placed between the internal and external plantar divisions of the posterior tibial nerve. Branches.—The posterior tibial artery gives off one large branch—the peroneal artery, and numerous small offsets which will be first described. 1. Several muscular branches are distributed to the deep-seated muscles, and one or two of considerable size to the inner part of the soleus muscle. A small offset from one of these perforates the tibial attach- ment of the soleus, and ascends over the popliteus muscle to anastomose with the lower internal articular artery. 2. The medullary artery of the tibia, the largest of its kind in the body, arises from the posterior tibial near its commencement, and, after giving small branches to the neighbouring muscles, enters the foramen in the bone. This vessel not unfrequently arises from the anterior tibial artery. 3. Two or three cutaneous branches, of small size, supply the skin of the inner side of the leg.