312 Fig. 209.—Deep posterior muscles op DORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. Fig. 209. but more longitudinal in direction, are occasionally present in the cervical and lumbar regions. Interspinales and intertransversales.—The interspinales are short vertical fasciculi of fleshy fibres, placed in pairs between the spinous processes of contiguous vertebra). In the neck, from the axis downwards, they are roundish bundles attached to the two parts into which the spinous processes are divided. In the dorsal region they are for the most part absent, a few fibres only being present in one or two of the highest and lowest spaces. In the loins they are flattened bands, one on each side of the inter- spinous ligament, and extending the whole length of the spinous processes. Variety.—Longer interspinous bundles are sometimes found in the neck pass- ing- over one or two vertebrae, and forming a transition to the spinalis cervicis muscle already described. The intertransversales are short muscles passing nearly vertically THE UPPER PART OP THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. (A. T.) i a, external occipital protuberance; b, surface between the superior and in- ferior curved lines into which the ccm- plexus is inserted ; c, spinous process of the axis ; d, transverse process of the atlas ; e, transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra; /, lamina of the sixth dorsal vertebra; 1, rectus capitis posticus minor muscle ; 2, rectus posticus major ; 3, obliquus superior; 4, obliquus in- ferior ; 5, rectus capitis lateralis ; 6, 6, trachelo-mastoid, the muscle of the right side turned inwards and its slips of at- tachment to the dorsal and cervical vertebrae separated from each other ; 7, 7, transversalis cervicis, the figures are placed near the extreme ends of the muscle on the right side ; 7', on the left side, longissimus dorsi ; 8, 8, cervicalis ascendens, the muscle of the right side is spread out ; 8', 8', on the left side, ten- dinous insertions of the ilio-costalis and accessorius muscles ; 9, upper part of the semispinalis colli of the left side ; 10, placed on the seventh rib of the right side close to the insertion of its levator costae muscle ; 11, 11, three rotatores dorsi. from vertebra to vertebra between the transverse processes. In the cervical region there are two rounded fleshy bundles beneath each transverse process, the one descending from the anterior, the other from the posterior part of the process. In the dorsal region there are small fleshy bundles in the lowest three or four spaces ; in the middle spaces they are replaced by small tendinous bands which constitute the so-called inter-