286 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 198.—The pterygoid Fig. 198. as they descend, and terminate mostly in a tendon, which is implanted into the upper and anterior borders of the coronoid process of the lower jaw, while the deeper fibres have a fleshy insertion into the inner side of the process, reaching down .to the union of the ramus and body of the jaw. Relations.—Tlie upper part of the muscle is closely covered by the temporal fascia; the lower and anterior part is imbedded in fat continuous with that which lies between the masseter and buccinator muscles. Between the muscle and the bone of the temporal fossa are the deep temporal arteries and nerves, which penetrate its substance. In contact with the deep surface of the muscle near its insertion the buccal nerve descends, and at the posterior border of the in- sertion the masseteric nerve and artery emerge. The internal pterygoid muscle arises from the pterygoid fossa, its fibres, tendinous and fleshy, being attached mostly to the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and that portion of the tuberosity of the palate bone which is situated between the pterygoid plates, and by a second smaller slip, lying outside the external pterygoid muscle, from the outer surface of the tuberosities of the palate and superior maxillary bones. Thence it is inclined downwards, with a direction backwards and outwards, and is inserted into the rough mark on the inner side of the ramus of the jaw between the angle and the dental foramen. Relations.—The internal pterygoid muscle is placed on the inner side of the ramus of the jaw, somewrhat in the same manner as the masseter lies on the outside. Between the external surface of the muscle and the ramus of the maxilla are the internal lateral ligament and the internal maxillary vessels, with the dental artery and nerve ; and at its upper part the larger head is crossed by the external pterygoid muscle. Its inner surface is in contact with the tensor palati muscle, and with the superior constrictor of the pharynx. MUSCLES FROM OUTSIDE. £ The masseter muscle, the greater portion of the zygo- matic arch, the temporal muscle with the coronoid pro- cess, and a large part of the ramus of the jaw have been removed. 1, external ptery- goid : the figure is placed on the lower head; 2, internal pterygoid. The external ptery- goid muscle, occupying the zygomatic fossa, arises by two fleshy heads placed close to- gether, the superior of whicn is attached to _ the zygomatic surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, and to the infratempoial cxest which separates that surface from the temporal fossa ; while the inferior, which is larger, is attached to the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. The fibres from both heads pass backwards, and converge to be inserted into the depression on the front of the neck of the lower jaw, aixd into the ixxterarticular fibro-cartilage of the temporo-maxillary articulation.