605 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The branch for the rhomboid muscles arises from the fifth nerve, and is directed backwards to the base of the scapula through the fibres of the middle scalenus, and beneath the levator anguli scapulae to the deep sur- face of the rhomboid muscles, in which it terminates. It gives one or two branches to the levator scapulae, and sometimes a twig to the highest digitation of the serratus posticus superior (Rielander). The nerve of the subelavius muscle, of small size, arises from the front of the cord which results from the union of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It is directed over the third part of the subclavian artery to the deep surface of the subelavius muscle. This small nerve is frequently connected with the phrenic nerve in the neck, or in the chest, by means of a slender filament. Branch to join the phrenic nerve.—This small and short branch is, when present, an offset from the fifth cervical nerve ; it joins the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. Fig. 339. —• Distribution of THE SUPRASCAPULAR AND CIRCUMFLEX NERVES (from Hirschfekl and Leveille). A a, scalenus medius and posti- cus muscles ; b, levator anguli scapulae ; c, acromion ; d, del- toid muscle, of which the back part has been removed; c, rhomboid muscles; f, teres major ; y, latissimus dorsi; 1, the brachial plexus, seen from behind ; 1', nerve to the rhom- boid muscles ; 2, placed on the clavicle, the suprascapular nerve; 3, its branches to the supraspina- tus muscle ; 4," branch to the infraspinatus ; 5, the circum- flex nerve, passing out of the quadrangular interval; 6, its branch to the teres minor mus- cle ; 7, branches to the deltoid ; 8, cutaneous branch. Posterior thoracic nerve.—The posterior thoracic nerve (nerve of the serratus magnus) is generally formed in the substance of the middle scalenus muscle by two roots, one from the fifth and another from the sixth nerve, and reaches the surface of the scalenus lower than the nerve of the rhomboid muscles, with which it is often connected. It descends behind the brachial plexus on the outer surface of the serratus magnus, nearly to the lower border of that muscle, supplying it with numerous branches. Suprascapular nerve.—The suprascapular nerve arises from the cord formed by the union of the fifth and sixth nerves, and passes outwards and backwards beneath the trapezius to the upper border of the scapula, where it enters the supraspinous fossa through the suprascapular notch, below the ligament of the same name. In the supraspinous fossa, the nerve supplies branches to the supraspinatus muscle, and a slender articular filament to the shoulder-joint ; and it then descends through the great scapular notch to the lower fossa, where it ends in the infra- spinatus muscle, furnishing sometimes a second twig to the articulation of the shoulder. Fig. 339.