ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 43G turns sharply forwards and downwards, and is continued from left to right along the small curvature of the stomach, distributing branches to both surfaces of that viscus, and finally inosculating with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. Where it first reaches the stomach, this artery sends upwards (esopha- geal branches, which anastomose with the aortic oesophageal arteries. The branches to the stomach, descending on the fore and back part of the organ, anastomose with branches from the arterial arch on the great curvature. Varieties.—The coronary artery of the stomach is sometimes given off directly from the aorta; and is occasionally replaced by two separate vessels. It some- times furnishes the left or an additional hepatic artery ; and according to Hyrtl there is constantly a small branch which ascends to the left end of the transverse fissure of the liver and anastomoses with an offset of the left hepatic artery. B. The hepatic artery (ii) is in the adult intermediate in size between the coronary and splenic arteries, but in the foetus it is the largest of the three. It is directed at first forwards and to the right, passing over the upper border of the pancreas, and below the foramen of Winslow, to the upper margin of the pyloric orifice of the stomach, where it gives off its gastro-duodenal branch. It then ascends between the layers of the small omentum, and in front of the foramen of Winslow, towards the transverse fissure of the liver ; and in this course it lies upon the portal vein, and to the left of the common bile-duct. Near the liver, it ends by dividing into right and left branches, which supply the corre- sponding lobes of that organ. Branches.—(a) The gastro-duodenal artery (iv) descends near the pylorus behind the first part of the duodenum, and divides at the lower border of that viscus into a smaller superior pancreatico-duodenal and a larger right gastro-epiploic artery. The superior pancreatico-duodenal artery descends along the inner margin of the duodenum, between that and the pancreas, and, after furnishing several branches to both these organs, anastomoses with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal from the superior mesenteric artery. The right gastro-epiploic artery, the continua- tion of the gastro-duodenal, runs from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, and ends by inosculating with the left gastro-epiploic from the splenic artery. It sends branches upwards to both surfaces of the stomach, and long slender vessels downwards to the omentum. (b) The pyloric artery, descending from its origin and coming in con- tact with the stomach at the upper border of the pylorus, extends from right to left along the small curvature, aud inosculates with the coronary artery. It is sometimes a branch of the gastro-duodenal. (c) The right hepatic branch inclines outwards behind the hepatic and cystic ducts (occasionally in front of the hepatic), giving off the cystic artery as it passes these, and reaches the right end of the transverse fis- sure, where it divides into two or three branches as it enters the liver substance. The cystic artery (vi) turns forwards upon the neck of the gall-bladder, and divides into two smaller branches, of which one rami- fies between the coats on the inferior surface, the other between the bladder aud the liver. (d) The left hepatic branch, smaller than the right, from which it diverges at an acute angle, gives off one or two branches to the Spigelian