BICEPS FLEXOR CUBITI. 209 Relations.—Concealed above by the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, the fleshy belly of the biceps forms in the rest of its extent the prominence of the front of the arm. It lies in its upper part on the humerus, and in its lower on the bra- chialis anticus, and by its inner margin is in contact in its upper half with the coraco- brachialis, in its lower with the brachial artery. Its inferior tendon passes back- ! Fig. 164.—Deep view of the mus- cles OF THE RIGHT SHOULDER AND ARM, FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) | a, b, outer half of the clavicle; c, coracoid process ; d, upper, and e, lower triangular spaces at the upper and lower angles of the scapula on its anterior surface to which the serratus magnus is attached ; /, great tube- rosity ; gr, surface of the humerus below the bicipital groove ; h, outer and i, inner condyle ; 1, cut coracoid head, and 1', cut glenoid tendon of the biceps muscle ; 2, double tendon of insertion of the pectoralis major, from which a prolongation is seen running up to the capsule of the shoulder ; 3, insertion of the deltoid ; 4, coraco-brachialis; 5, subscapularis; 5', its insertion into the small tube- rosity ; 6, teres major ; 6', its inser- tion behind and below the latissimus dorsi; 7, part of the latissimus dorsi; +, slip from the inferior angle of the scapula ; 7', insertion of the tendon, after winding round the teres major, in front of and higher than that muscle ; 8, 8', brachialis anticus; 9, 9, long head of the triceps, at the upper part seen in the interval be- tween the teres major and subscapu- laris muscles ; 9', inner head ; 10, flexor profundus digitorum ; 11, tendon of insertion of the biceps. Fig. 164. wards between the supinator longus and pronator teres muscles, and the fibrous expansion or semilunar fascia is stretched across the brachial vessels and median nerve. Varieties.—The biceps is one of the most variable muscles in the body. The commonest variety is the occurrence of a third head which arises from the humerus in more or less close connection with the brachialis anticus and the insertion oi the coraco-brachialis, and is inserted into the coracoid portion of the muscle and the semilunar fascia: this head lies generally on the outer side of the brachial artery, but has sometimes been found covering the vessels. Less fre- quently an additional head springs from the outer side of the humerus, from the bicipital groove, or from the great tuberosity. In rarer cases two supplementary heads are present, arising from different parts of the humerus. Occasionally a fleshy slip is given off from the inner border of the muscle to the internal inter- muscular septum, or to the internal condyle, passing over the brachial artery ; and fasciculi have been seen passing to the pronator teres and to the brachialis anticus. In a few cases absence of the long head has been observed ; in others VOL. i. r