597 ANTERIOR DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. ANTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS OP THE SPINAL NERVES. The anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves arc distributed to the parts of the body situated in front of the vertebral column, including the limbs. They are, for the most part, considerably larger than the posterior divisions. The anterior division of each spinal nerve is connected by one or two slender filaments Avith the sympathetic. Those of the cervical, lumbar, and sacral nerves form plexuses of various forms ; but those of the dorsal nei'A'es remain for the most part separate from one another. CERVICAL NERVES. The anterior divisions of the four upper cciTical nerves form the cervical plexus. They appear at the side of the neck betAAreen the scalenus medius and rectus anticus major muscles. They are each united by a communicating filament to the first cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, or to the cord connecting that ganglion with the second. The anterior divisions of the four lower cervical nerves, larger than those of the upper four, appear between the anterior and middle scaleni muscles, and, together with the larger part of the first dorsal, go to form the brachial plexus. They are each connected by a filament with one of the two loAver cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, and Avith the plexus on the vertebral artery. The anterior dmsions of the first and second nerves require a notice separately from the description of the nerves of the cervical plexus. SUBOCCIPITAL NERVE. The anterior primary division of the first nerve runs forwards in a groove on the outer side of the upper articular process of the atlas, and bends downwards in front of the transverse process of that vertebra to join the second nerve. In this course forwards it lies beneath the vertebral artery, and on the inner side of the rectus lateralis muscle, to which it gives a branch. As it crosses the inner side of the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, the nerve is joined by a filament from the sympathetic on the vertebral artery ; and from the loop which it makes in front of the transverse process, branches are supplied to the tAvo anterior recti muscles. Short filaments connect this part of the nerve with the pneumo-gastric, the hypoglossal, and the sympathetic nen'es. Valentin notices filaments distributed to the articulation of the occipital bone •with the atlas, and to the mastoid process of the temporal bone. SECOND CERVICAL NERAIE. The anterior division of the second cervical nerve, beginning between the arches of the first tAvo vertebrae, is directed forwards betAveen their transverse processes, being placed outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the posterior intertransverse and other muscles fixed to those processes. In front of the intertransverse muscles, the nerve divides into an ascending part, which joins the first cervical nerve, and a descending part to the third.