MUSCLES OF TILE UPPER LIMB. 200 clavicular ligament. From this tendon its fibres pass outwards and upwards, forming a prismatic belly, which is inserted into the groove on the under surface of the clavicle, extending as far as the recess between the conoid and trapezoid parts of the coraco-clavicular ligament. Relations.—The subclavius is encased by the costo-coracoid membrane, and is placed immediately over the great vessels and nerves entering the limb. Varieties.—The subclavius is sometimes found to be without any attachment to the clavicle, being inserted into the root of the coracoid process ; or it may have a double insertion, the upper into the clavicle, the lower into the coracoid process. A part of this muscle, or occasionally an independent fasciculus, may be inserted into the upper border of the scapula, constituting the sterno-scajmlar muscle of Wood. The serratus magnus muscle, placed upon the upper and lateral part of the thorax, between the ribs and the scapula, arises anteriorly from the first eight or sometimes nine ribs by as many fleshy slips or digitations ; each digitation being attached to the fore part of the outer surface of the corresponding rib, with the exception of the first, which is attached to two ribs. Posteriorly, the muscle, considerably narrowed, is inserted into the line in front of the base of the scapula, and at the upper and lower angles of the bone into the flat surfaces which are excluded from the fossa of the subscapular muscle. The fibres are arranged in three sets, thus :—a, those of the first digitation, springing from the first and second ribs and an intervening aponeurotic arch, form a thick bundle which terminates on the flat area in front of the upper angle of the scapula ; b, those of the second and third digitations, from the second and third ribs, but especially the first of these, spread out into a triangular layer, the thinnest part of the muscle, and are attached along the line in front of the base of the scapula, extending from the place of insertion of the preceding part nearly to the lower angle of the bone ; c, the remaining five or six digitations converge in the form of a fan, and terminate posteriorly in a thick mass, which is attached to the flat surface in front of the lower angle of the scapula. Relations.—By its deep surface, the serratus magnus rests on the upper ribs, the intercostal muscles, and part of the serratus posticus superior. Its outer surface is in contact posteriorly with the subscapular and latissimus dorsi muscles, and forms anteriorly the internal wall of the axilla, being subcutaneous in the lower part of its extent. Varieties.—Not unfrequently the muscle receives a slip also from the tenth rib : on the other hand, the highest digitation often has no attachment to the first rib ; or one or more of the lower digitations may be absent, so that the muscle does not pass lower than the seventh rib. The muscle has been observed divided into three parts : sometimes the middle part is absent; and in various instances the serratus has been observed united partially with the levator scapulae, the external intercostals, or the external oblique. With the levator scapulae it forms one muscle in many mammals. Nerves.—The nerves which supply the anterior muscles passing from the trunk to the upper limb are all derived from parts of the brachial plexus. The nerve of the subclavius is a small twig from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The large nerve of the serratus magnus, called posterior thoracic, proceeds from the fifth and sixth, sometimes also the seventh nerves, and pierces the middle scalene muscle. The nerves of the pectoral muscles, named anterior thoracic, are two in number, internal and external, proceeding respectively from the inner and outer cords of the plexus, the outer supplying the great pectoral muscle, the inner both it and the lesser pectoral.