BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB 114 attached ; this gluteal ridge is the representative of the third trochanter of the horse and other animals. The internal lip is continued, winding in front of the small trochanter, to the anterior intertrochanteric line, marking the attachment of the vastus interims, and in the interval be- tween the two diverging branches of the linea aspera a less distinct line is seen passing to the small trochanter, and which gives attachment to the pectineus. Interiorly the two lips are prolonged to the condyles under the name of internal and external supracondylar lines, enclosing between them a flat triangular surface of bone, the popliteal surface of the femur, which forms the floor of the upper part of the popliteal space. The internal supracondylar line is interrupted at the upper part where the femoral vessels lie against the bone ; it terminates below in a small sharp projection, the adductor tubercle, giving attachment to the tendon of the adductor magnus. Above the centre of the linea aspera is the foramen for the medullary artery, directed upwards into the bone; a second is frequently to be seen near the lower end of the line. The inferior extremity presents two rounded eminences, the condyles, united anteriorly, hut separated posteriorly by a deep intercondylar fossa or notch. Their greatest prominence is directed backwards, and their curve, as it increases towards that part, may he compared to that of a partially uncoiled piece of watch-spring. The external condyle is the broader and more prominent in front; the internal is the longer and more prominent interiorly. One large articular surface, coated continu- ously with cartilage, extends over both condyles, but, opposite the front of the intercondylar fossa, it is divided by two irregular, slightly marked, transverse grooves into three parts, an elevated surface on each side of the fossa for articulation with the tibia ; and a grooved anterior surface for the patella. The patellar surface is of a trochlear form, being marked by a vertical hollow and two prominent lips ; the external portion of this surface is more prominent, and rises higher than the in- ternal. The tibial surfaces are nearly parallel, except in front, where the internal turns obliquely outwards to reach the patellar surface. On the exposed lateral surface of each condyle is a rough hiberosity, giving attachment to the respective lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The external tuberosity is the smaller of the two ; above it is a roundish im- pression for the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and below and behind it an oblique groove, ending inferiorly in a pit, in which the popliteus muscle takes origin. On the upper part of the internal condyle, between the adductor tubercle and the articular surface is an impression for the internal head of the gastrocnemius. The head and neck of the femur are deeply placed, the great trochanter is covered only by the aponeurosis of the gluteus maximus, and is readily felt, forming the most prominent part of the hip. The shaft is thickly surrounded by muscles. The condyles are subcutaneous on each side of the knee, the internal being especially prominent ; the trochlear surface is concealed by the patella during extension, but in the flexed limb its form can be traced pushing up the muscular covering. The angle between the neck and shaft of the femur is very open in the child ; in advanced age it tends to diminish, and at last may be reduced to a right angle, probably as a result of degenerative processes. In tlic female the angle of the neck is slightly less obtuse than in the male ; and from the greater width of the pelvis, and the shortness of the limbs, the convergence of the thigh bones inferiorly is more apparent.