153 THE SHOULDER-JOINT. coracoid process, and superiorly to the conoid tubercle of the clavicle : its fibres are directed backwards and upwards. The trapezoid ligament, the anterior or external fasciculus, slopes upwards, backwards, and out- wards from the upper surface of the coracoid process to the trapezoid line, on which it is inserted into the oiavicle. In the angle between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments there is frequently a synovial bursa. Movements.—The clavicle is firmly bound down at its inner end in the sterno- clavicular articulation, and upon this as a centre it can be moved upwards and downwards, forwards and backwards, or in any intermediate direction, necessarily carrying the scapula with it, which glides in a corresponding direction over the thoracic wall. The scapula farther undergoes a movement of rotation, by which the acromion is raised and the glenoid cavity directed upwards when the arm is elevated, and the reverse when the arm is depressed. The movements of the bones are limited, not so much by the forms of the articular surfaces, as by the costo-clavicular and coraco-clavicular ligaments, and the position of the thoracic wall. When the clavicle is forcibly depressed, as in lifting a heavy weight, it presses upon the first rib, its sternal end rises, and the interarticular fibro-cartilage and interclavicular ligament are put upon the stretch. The acromio-clavicular joint is loose and allows of considerable play, by which the angle between the spine of the scapula and the clavicle is altered as the shoulder is moved ; and the scapula is supported on the clavicle principally by the strong coraco-clavicular ligament. Ligaments of the Scapula.—There are two ligaments which stretch from one part of the scapula to another. 1. The coracoid or supra- scapular ligament is a thin, flat band of fibres, attached by its extre- mities to the opposite margins of the notch at the root of the cora- coid process, which it thus converts into a foramen for the transmission of the suprascapular nerve, the corresponding artery most commonly passing above it. This ligament is frequently converted into bone. 2. The coraco-acromial ligament, broad, firm, and triangular, is attached by its broader extremity to the outer edge of the coracoid process, and by the narrower to the tip of the acromion. Its inferior surface looks downwards upon the shoulder-joint, the superior is covered by the del- toid muscle. It completes the arch formed by the coracoid and acromion processes, and gives protection to the shoulder-joint. THE SHOULDER-JOINT. In this articulation the large and hemispherical head of the humerus is opposed to the much smaller surface of the glenoid cavity of the scapula. The bones are retained in position, not by the direct tension of ligaments, which would restrict too much the movements of the joint, but by surrounding muscles and atmospheric pressure. The capsular ligament is attached to the scapula round the margin of the glenoid cavity, and to the humerus at the place where the neck springs from the tuberosities and shaft. It extends farthest down the humerus on the internal or inferior aspect, and is strongest on the superior aspect. It is so lax that the humerus separates from the glenoid cavity as soon as its muscular connections are detached. Superiorly and posteriorly the capsule is strengthened by the tendons of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor muscles, which are in- timately connected with it as they pass over it to reach the great tube- rosity of the humerus. Anteriorly the tendon of the subscapularis muscle comes into direct contact with, the synovial membrane, which is pro-