FEMORAL ARTERY. 467 from one to two inches below Poupart’s ligament it becomes suddenly smaller (i) in consequence of its giving off a large branch, deep femoral artery, for the supply of the muscles of the thigh. The short portion of the vessel above the origin of its deep branch is frequently referred to as the common femoral artery, which is then described as dividing into the superficial femoral (the continuation of the trunk) and the deep femoral arteries, A general indication of the direction of the femoral artery, over the fore part and inner side of the thigh, is given by a line reaching from a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the sym- physis pubis above to the prominent tuberosity on the inner condyle of the femur below, the hip-joint having been first somewhat flexed, and the thigh abducted and rotated out. In the first part of its course the artery lies along the middle of the depression known as Scarpa’s triangle, between the ilio-psoas muscle on the outer side, and the adductor muscles on the inner side of the limb. In this situation the beating of the artery may be felt, and the circulation through the vessel may be most easily controlled by pressure. At a distance of from three to four inches below Poupart’s ligament, the sartorius muscle, which forms the outer boundary of Scarpa’s triangle, inclining inwards, comes to lie over the artery, and conceals the vessel in the remainder of its extent. Beneath the sartorius the artery is contained, together with the femoral vein and the internal saphenous nerve, in an elongated intermuscular space which is called Hunter’s canal, and which is bounded externally by the vastus internus muscle, internally and posteriorly by the adductors. While passing through Scarpa’s space, the femoral artery is covered only by the integument and the iliac portion of the fascia lata, as well as, in its upper part, by the crural sheath which invests both the artery ancl the vein. In the rest of its course it is covered by the sartorius muscle, and also by a dense fibrous membrane which stretches across from the tendons of the long and great adductors to the vastus internus muscle, and forms the anterior wall of Hunter’s canal. The artery rests at first upon the psoas muscle, by which it is separated from the margin of the pelvis and the capsule of the hip-joint ; next it is placed in front of the pectineus and adductor brevis muscles, the companion vein and deep femoral vessels being interposed; afterwards, it lies upon the long- adductor muscle ; and lastly, upon the tendon of the great adductor, the femoral vein being placed between the tendon and the artery. In the lower half of its course, it has immediately on its outer side the vastus internus muscle, which intervenes between it and the internal sur- face of the femur. At the groin the artery, after having passed over the margin of the pelvis, is placed in front of the innermost part of the head of the femur ; and at its lower end, the vessel lies close to the inner side of the shaft of the bone ; but in the intervening space, in consequence of the projection of the neck and shaft of the femur outwards, while the artery holds a straight course, it is separated from the bone by a considerable interval. Relation to veins.-—The femoral vein is very close to the artery, both being enclosed in the same sheath, and separated from each other only by a thin partition of fibrous membrane. At the groin, the vein lies on the same plane as the artery, and to its inner side ; but gradually inclining backwards, the vein is placed behind the artery at the lower end of Scarpa’s space, and afterwards gets somewhat to the outer side.