532 LYMPHATICS OF THE PELVIS AND ABDOMEN. placed near the internal iliac artery ; with these are associated the lymphatics of the prostate gdand and vesiculre seminalcs. The lymphatics of the uterus in the unimpregnated state of the organ, are small, but during the period of gestation they are greatly enlarged. Issuing from the entire substance of the uterus, the greater number descend, together with those of the vagina, and pass backwards to enter the glands upon the internal iliac artery, thus following the course of the principal uterine blood-vessels. Others, proceeding from the upper end of the uterus, run outwards in the folds of peritoneum which constitute the broad ligaments, and, joining the lymphatics derived from the ovaries and Fallopian tubes, ascend with the ovarian vessels to the glands placed on the aorta and vena cava. The lymphatics of the rectum are frequently of considerable size ; immediately after leaving the intestine, some of them pass through small glands which lie contiguous to it, and finally, they enter the lymphatic glands situated in the hollow of the sacrum. At the anus, their capillary network is continuous with that of the cutaneous lymphatics. The lumbar lymphatic glands are very numerous and are disposed in three groups, a mesial and two lateral. The glands of the mesial group are of large size, and surround the aorta and vena cava ; they receive the efferent vessels of the external and internal iliac, and of the sacral glands, the lymphatics from the kidneys, suprarenal bodies and testicles (or ovaries with a part of the uterus), some of the efferent vessels of the lateral lumbar glands, aiid the lymphatics of the vertebral portion of the diaphragm. The glands of the lateral group are much smaller ; they lie behind the psoas muscle, in the intervals between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and receive the deep lymphatics of the hinder part of the abdominal wall. The greater number of the efferent vessels of the lumbar glands are generally united on each side into a short stem, the lumbar lymphatic trunk, which, with several smaller vessels, opens into the commencement of the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the kidney consist of a deep and a superficial set. Those placed upon the surface of the organ are comparatively small ; they unite at the hilus of the kidney with the lymphatics from the interior of the gland, and then pass inwards to the mesial lumbar glands. The lymphatics of the suprarenal capsules unite with those of the kidney. The lymphatic vessels of the ureter are numerous; they communicate with those of the kidney and bladder, and for the most part terminate by union with the former. The lymphatics of the testicle commence in the substance of the gland, and upon the surface of the tunica vaginalis. Collected into several large trunks, they ascend with the other constituents of the spermatic cord, pass through the inguinal canal, and accompany the spermatic vessels in the abdomen to enter some of the lumbar lymphatic glands. The deep lymphatics of the abdominal wall in part pass along the circumflex iliac and epigastric arteries, to the external iliac glands ; others accompany the ilio-lumbar and lumbar arteries, and, after being joined by lymphatics from the muscles of the back and the spinal canal, enter the lateral lumbar glands. The lymphatics from the upper part of the anterior wall ascend with the internal mammary vessels and enter the sternal glands in the thorax. The mesenteric glands vaiy in number from a hundred and thirty