BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 461 the main artery of the limb (see varieties of the femoral artery). The covies nervi iscliiadici has been seen by Hyrtl of large size, and continued along the thigh to join the popliteal artery, a little above the knee-joint (Wiener Denkschriften,' xxiii., 1864). 8. The gluteal artery (iii), the largest branch of the internal iliac, is distributed to the muscles on the outer side of the pelvis. It passes backwards between the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, turns round the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and divides opposite the interval between the gluteus rnedius and pyriformis muscles into a superficial and a deep part. Before leaving the pelvis the gluteal artery gives some twigs to the pyriformis and obturator internets muscles, and one or two branches to the hip-bone. (a) The superficial part, the smaller of the two divisions, passes back- wards between the contiguous borders of the gluteus rnedius and pyriformis muscles, and divides into a number of branches, which are distributed to the gluteus maximus, and anastomose with the sciatic and the posterior branches of the lateral sacral arteries. (b) The deep part divides again into two branches, which run forwards between the gluteus rnedius and minimus muscles. The superior branch courses along the upper border of the gluteus minimus towards the anterior superior iliac spine, and, after supplying the muscles between which it is placed, anastomoses with the ascending branch of the external circumflex artery, as well as with the deep circumflex iliac by means of branches which perforate the origin of the gluteus rnedius, and ascend over the iliac crest. The inferior branch crosses the middle of the gluteus minimus, distributes offsets to the smaller gluteal muscles and the hip- joint, and anastomoses with the external circumflex and sciatic arteries. Variety.—One instance is recorded in which the gluteal artery was replaced by a large branch arising from the femoral and passing outwards and backwards to reach the gluteal muscles (F. T. Roberts, Liverpool Med. and Surg. Rep., 1867). 9. The ilio-lumbar artery (v) resembles in a great measure one of the lumbar arteries. It is a short vessel which passes outwards, between the obturator nerve and the lumbo-sacral cord, to the upper end of the ilio-pectineal line, where it divides, behind the inner margin of the psoas muscle, into lumbar and iliac branches. The lumbar or ascending branch turns upwards under cover of the psoas, to which and to the quadratus lumborum it is mainly distributed, and anastomoses with the lower lumbar arteries. A spinal branch is sent inwards through the last intervertebral foramen, and is distributed like the spinal offsets of the lumbar arteries. The iliac or transverse branch is directed outwards into the iliac fossa, and ramifies partly beneath, partly on the surface of the iliacus muscle, giving offsets to the bone, and forming anastomoses with the obturator, circumflex iliac, and lumbar arteries. Varieties.—The ilio-lumbar artery frequently arises from the internal iliac above the division of that trunk ; more rarely from the common iliac. The iliac and lumbar portions sometimes arise separately from the parent trunk. 10. The lateral sacral arteries (v) are usually two in number on each side, although occasionally they are united into one. They arise close together from the posterior division of the internal iliac. Both arteries incline somewhat inwards and descend on the front of the sacrum,