448 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. These anastomoses constitute a well-marked vascular plexus, situated in the subperitoneal tissue, which Turner calls the subperitoneal arterial plexus. It occupies the lumbar region from the diaphragm downwards into the iliac regions and pelvis, and establishes communication between the parietal vessels and those of the viscera, chiefly, though not exclusively, through branches of the arteries of those viscera which are situated behind the peritoneum. It belongs to the hepatic, the renal and suprarenal arteries, those of the pancreas and duodenum, the caecum, and the ascending and descending parts of the colon. It extends also to the vessels of the rectum, and to the spermatic arteries, both in their descent through the abdomen and in the inguinal canal and scrotum. In these situations it was found that the injected material (coloured gelatine) when thrown into the vessels of the viscus, so as to fill them completely, ex- tended through the subperitoneal plexus in various ways, so as to reach one or other set of parietal vessels, such as the phrenic, lumbar, ilio-lumbar, circumflex iliac, lower intercostal, and epigastric arteries; in the pelvis, the middle and lateral sacral arteries; and in the scrotum, the superficial pudic and perineal arteries. The more direct inosculations of the hasmorrhoidal arteries on the rectum with the inferior haemorrhoidal branches of the pudic artery are well known, and the importance of these and other similar anastomoses, as well as the more extensive and minute anastomosing plexus investigated by Turner, is obvious, with reference not merely to the nutrition of the subperitoneal tissue, but also to the debated question of the influence exerted by local superficial blood-letting on the state of the vessels of the deeper viscera. Middle sacral artery (iv).—The middle sacral artery arises from the back of the aorta just above the bifurcation. From this point it proceeds downwards, over the last lumbar vertebra and along the middle of the sacrum, to the front of the coccyx, where it forms slender arches of anas- tomosis with the lateral sacral arteries, and is then continued as a small vessel through the median aponeurosis of the levatores ani muscles to terminate in the coccygeal gland (see Yol. II., p. 197). From the front of the middle sacral artery small branches pass into the fold of the mesorectum, and ramify upon the posterior surface of the intestine, anastomosing with the hmmorrhoidal arteries; and on each side others spread out upon the sacrum, and anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries, occasionally sending small offsets into the anterior sacral foramina. Varieties.—The middle sacral artery sometimes deviates a little to one side. It may arise in common with one or both of the fifth pair of lumbar arteries, or from the bifurcation of the aorta, or'from one of the common iliac arteries, more frequently the left. It often gives off on each side a considerable branch (lowest lumbar artery'), which passes backwards on the fifth lumbar vertebra (fig. 267, 9'). The middle sacral artery has also been seen to furnish an accessory renal, or a middle hamiorrhoidal artery. This artery represents the caudal prolongation of the aorta of animals, and its lateral branches may be regarded as corresponding to the intercostal and lumbar arteries. COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. The common iliac arteries (11-12 mm.), commencing at the bifurca- tion of the aorta, pass downwards and outwards, diverging from each other at an angle which is slightly greater in the female than in the male, and divide opposite the lumbo-sacral articulation into the internal and external iliac arteries. The common iliac arteries measure generally about two inches in