ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 414 follows that the brachial portion of the vessel is replaced, throughout its whole extent, by two separate trunks. In 94 cases out of the 481 observed by R. Quain, or about one in five, there were two arteries instead of one in some part of the arm. The position of the two arteries, in these cases, is also of surgical interest. Usually they are close together, occupying the ordinary position of the brachial artery, and the abnormal vessel is generally the more superficial; but the radial artery, when thus given off, in the arm, often arises from the inner side of the brachial, then runs parallel with the larger vessel (the brachial or ulnar-inter- osseous), and crosses over it, occasionally under it, opposite the elbow, still covered by the fascia. The radial artery has also been found, in a few instances, to perforate the fascia near the bend of the elbow, and run immediately under the skin for some distance. As a rare occurrence it passes behind the tendon of the biceps to its usual place in the forearm. When the ulnar is the branch arising high, it often inclines from the position of the brachial, at the lower part of the aim, towards the inner condyle of the humerus. This vessel generally lies beneath the fascia as it descends, and super- ficial to the flexor muscles of the forearm, sometimes however crossing beneath the palmaris longus. It is occasionally placed between the integument and the fascia ; and in one case only was it found by R. Quain beneath the muscles. In one instance occurring in the dissecting-room of Glasgow University, the ulnar artery given off from the brachial at the middle of the arm was observed to descend superficially behind the inner condyle. The interosseous, after arising from the axillary or brachial artery, is commonly placed behind the main trunk, and, on reaching the bend of the elbow, passes deeply between the muscles to its usual position in the forearm. Lastly, when the radial has arisen high in the aim, the remaining portion of the brachial (' ulnar-inter osseous) has occasionally been observed descending, accom- panied by the median nerve, along the intermuscular septum towards the inner condyle of the humerus, and turning forwards round a supracondylar process to gain the usual position at the middle of the bend of the elbow. The interosseous trunk has also been seen to take a similar course when given off in the arm, as has also a vas aberrans joining the ulnar artery (fig. 252). The two arteries occupying the place of the brachial are in some instances con- nected near the bend of the arm by an intervening trank, which proceeds from the larger (or ulnar-interosseous) artery to the radial or the radial recurrent, and varies somewhat in its size, form, and course. The aberrant arteries, “ vasa aberrantia,” alluded to above, are long slender vessels, which arise either from the brachial or the axillary artery, and end by joining one of the arteries of the forearm, or one of their branches. In eight cases out of nine, observed by R. Quain, this unusual vessel joined the radial; in the remaining case it joined the radial recurrent, which arose irregularly from the ulnar artery. Very rarely the aberrant vessel joins the ulnar. This peculiarity may be regarded as an approach to that condition in which there is division of the brachial artery and subsequent connection of its two parts by an intervening branch. In most cases of high division of the brachial artery the condition of the vessels is not the same in the right and left arms. In 61 bodies in which the high division existed, it occurred on one side only in 43 ; on both sides, in different positions, in 13 ; and on both sides, in the same position, in the remaining 5. A median artery of large size (pp. 419, 421) has also been seen arising from the brachial, and in one or two cases this vessel passed downwards over the muscles of the forearm to reach the palm of the hand. In a very few cases the three arteries of the forearm, radial, ulnar, and inter- osseous, have arisen together from the end of the brachial trunk, at the usual dis- tance below the elbow. Relations.—The brachial artery is occasionally covered in some part of the arm by a fleshy slip connected with the coraco-brachialis, biceps, brachialis anticus, or pronator teres muscle. The median nerve sometimes passes behind, instead of in front of, the brachial artery, and in these cases it will be generally found that the axillary artery pre-