219 SUPINATOR AND EXTENSOR MUSCLES. tendon, which is inserted into an impression on the outer side of the lower end of the radius, near the base of the styloid process. Relations.—This muscle is covered only by skin and fascia, except at its in- sertion, where two of the extensor tendons of the thumb lie over the tendon. Above, the brachialis anticus is in contact with its inner surface, the musculo- spiral nerve being interposed, and the long radial extensor is beneath it. It Fig. 163. Fig. 168.— Superficial muscles of the forearm AND HAND, SEEN FROM BEHIND. (A. T.) ^ d, olecranon; e, external condyle ; /, lower end of ulna; 8", tendon of triceps; 9, anconeus ; 10, part of brachialis anticus; 11, supinator longus; 12, extensor carpi radialis longior ; 13, brevior; 14, extensor communis digitorum ; 15, extensor carpi ulnaris; 15', its insertion into the fifth metacarpal bone; +, between 14 and 15, extensor minimi digiti; 16, origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris by an aponeurosis from the back of the ulna ; 17, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis : 17', its insertion into the first metacarpal bone; 18, extensor primi intemodii pollicis; 18', its insertion into the first phalanx; + and +, posterior annular ligament; at I, the tendons of the long and short radial extensors ; at +, the tendon of ’the extensor minimi digiti; 19, tendon of extensor secundi internodii; 20, is placed on the proximal end of the second metacarpal bone, close to the insertion of the radial extensors of the carpus : in the hand, the dorsal interosseous muscles are shown, and on the middle finger the insertion of the extensor tendon. forms the outer boundary of the triangular space at the bend of the elbow, and in the forearm it rests upon the supinator brevis, pro- nator teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and the radial vessels and nerve. Varieties.—These are neither great nor nu- merous in this muscle. One of the commonest is the division of the tendon or lower part of the muscle into two or sometimes three slips, which are inserted either together or at some distance from each other. The supinator longus may also be connected to some of the neigh- bouring muscles, especially at its origin. The extensor carpi radialis longior muscle arises from the lower third of the external supracondylar ridge of the hu- merus, and from the external intermus- cular septum ; a few fibres also spring from the outer side of the common tendon of the extensor muscles. Its muscular belly ends above the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which passes, conjointly with that of the following muscle, in the outermost of the grooves on the posterior surface of the radius, and is inserted into the base of the second metacarpal bone. A small bursa lies beneath the tendon at its insertion. The extensor carpi radialis brevior muscle arises from the outer