054 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. (e) The filaments connected with the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve are supplied to its inner surface. (d) The sympathetic root of the ophthalmic ganglion passes from the cavernous plexus into the orbit, either separately, or in connection with the nasal nerve, or, according to Reichart, with the third nerve (p. 559b (e) Minute filaments are furnished to the pituitary body. 2. Pharyngeal nerves and plexus—These nerves arise from the fore part of the ganglion, and are directed obliquely inwards to the side of the pharynx. Opposite the middle constrictor muscle they unite with branches of the pneumo-gastric and glosso-pharyngeal nerves ; and by their union with these nerves the pharyngeal plexus is formed. Branches emanating from the plexus are distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. One or two filaments pass from these branches to the superior and external laryngeal nerves. 3. Upper cardiac nerve.—Each of the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic furnishes a cardiac branch, the three being named respec- tively the upper, middle, and lower cardiac nerves. These branches are continued singly, or in connection, to the large prevertebral centre (cardiac plexus) of the thorax. Their size varies considerably, and where one branch is smaller than common, another will be found to be increased in size, as if to compensate for the defect. There are some differences in the disposition of the nerves of the right and left sides. The upper or superficial cardiac nerve of the rigid side proceeds from two or more branches of the ganglion, with, in some instances, an offset from the cord connecting the first two ganglia. In its course down the neck the nerve lies behind the carotid sheath, in contact with the longus colli muscle ; and it is placed in front of the lower thyroid artery and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Entering the thorax, it passes in some cases before, in others behind the subclavian artery, and is directed along the innominate artery to the back part of the arch of the aorta, where it ends in the deep cardiac plexus, a few small filaments con- tinuing also to the front of the great vessel. Some branches accompany the inferior thyroid artery to be distributed to the thyroid body. In its course downwards this cardiac nerve is repeatedly connected with other branches of the sympathetic, and with the pneumo-gastric nerve. Thus, about the middle of the neck it is joined by some filaments from the external laryngeal nerve ; and, rather lower down, by one or two filaments from the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve (upper cervical cardiac branches) : lastly, on entering the chest, it joins with the recur- rent laryngeal. Variety.—Instead of passing to the thorax in the manner described, the superior cardiac nerve may join the cardiac branch furnished from one of the other cervical ganglia. Scarpa describes this as the common disposition of the nerve; but Cruveilhier (“ Anat. Descript.,” t. iii., 707) states that he has not in any case found the cardiac nerves to correspond exactly with the figures of the “ Tabuke Neurologic®.” The upper cardiac nerve of the left side has, while in the neck, the same course and connections as that of the right side. Within the chest it follows the left carotid artery to the arch of the aorta, and usually crosses over that vessel to enter the superficial cardiac plexus. In some