VOL. I. XT MUSCLES AND FASCI2E OF THE NECK ANTERIORLY. 2S9 the anterior triangle. In the posterior triangle the fascia is attached interiorly to the clavicle, and near that bone is perforated by the external jugular vein, which in the previous part of its course lies on the surface of the membrane. In the anterior triangle it is bound superiorly to the base of the jaw in front, and farther back is continued super- ficially over the parotid gland (parotid fascia) to the zygoma, sending upwards also a deep process between the submaxillary and parotid glands, in which the stylo-maxillary ligament is developed. Anteriorly the fascia is attached to the hyoid bone, and becoming stronger as it descends, it splits, a little below the level of the thyroid body, into two distinct layers. Of these the more superficial and weaker, running along the sterno-mastoid muscles, is fixed to the sternum and the interclavicular ligament; whilst the stronger layer, lying under the former, and closely covering the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, is attached to the deeper surface of that bone. Between these layers, at the upper border of the sternum, is a small space which extends also a short distance on each side above the clavicle and behind the sternal head of the sterno-mastoid. This space contains some loose connective tissue and fat, and sometimes a small lymphatic gland, and in the lateral recess the anterior jugular vein is directed outwards. Prolonged from the deeper of these two layers, a fascia is found in the posterior triangle, investing the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and binding it down to the clavicle and first rib, where this structure is connected with the costo-coracoid membrane. Still deeper in the anterior triangle a process of the fascia passes behind the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, investing the thyroid body, and extending thence on the trachea and large vessels at the root of the neck down to the fibrous layer of the pericardium. Continuous with the deep processes of the cervical fascia is the carotid sheath, an envelope of fascia enclosing the carotid artery and jugular vein with the pneumo-gastric nerve. A thin fibrous septum intervenes between the artery and vein, thus completing a separate sheath for each. Lastly, thep'evertehral fascia is a layer descending on the prevertebral muscles, and separating them from the pharynx and oesophagus. Laterally this becomes continuous with, or forms, the back of the carotid sheath, and is then prolonged outwards and downwards over the scaleni muscles, the brachial plexus of nerves and the subclavian vessels, which it accom- panies into the upper part of the axilla, thus giving rise to the axillary sheath. Muscles.—Immediately beneath the fascia is a large oblique muscle, extending the whole length of the neck, and named from its attachments the sterno-cleido-mastoid. At a deeper level than this are two sets of muscles situated respectively above and below the hyoid bone. The muscles of the upper set are known as the suprahyoid muscles or elevators of the hyoid bone ; those of the lower set are the infrahyoid muscles or depressors of the hyoid bone. The sterno-cleido-mastoid or sterno-mastoid muscle is attached inferiorly in two parts to the anterior surface of the manubrium and to the inner third of the clavicle on its upper aspect. The sternal head is thick and rounded, tendinous in front and fleshy behind. The clavicular portion, separated from the sternal by a narrow interval, is flat, and is composed of fleshy and tendinous fibres. The two portions meet and form a thick prominent muscle, which, extending upwards and backwards, is inserted