13 DORSAL VERTEBRAE. each completes, with that of the adjacent vertebra, a cavity for the head of one rib. Fig. 8.—Sixth dorsal vertebra. (A. T.) £ A, viewed from above ; B, viewed from the right side. 1, body ; 2, pedicle ; 3, lamina ; 4, spinal foramen ; 5, spinous process ; 6, transverse process; 7, 7', superior and inferior articular processes ; c, c', superior and inferior facets on the body for the articulation of the head of the rib ; d, facet on the transverse process for the articulation of the tubercle of the rib. The lamince, broad and flat, are imbri- cated or sloped one pair over another like tiles on a roof. The superior notches are very shallow, the inferior compara- tively deep. The spinous process, described as bayonet-shaped, is three-sided, and termi- nates in a slight tubercle. It is longest and has the greatest downward inclina- tion in those toward the middle of the series. The transverse ywocesses are strong, directed outwards and backwards, and terminate in a rough knob which presents anteriorly a smooth surface for articulation with the tubercle of a rib. The articular processes have their cartilaginous surfaces nearly vertical. Those of the superior processes look backwards, slightly upwards and outwards, those of the inferior look forwards, slightly downwards and inwards. The foremen is nearly circular, and is smaller than in the cervical or the lumbar region. The first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth doTsal vertebrae present certain characters by which they may be individually distinguished. The First Dorsal Vertebra in its general conformation approaches very closely the seventh cervical. The body is elongated transversely and concave on the upper surface ; the superior intervertebral notches are of considerable depth ; the upper articular surfaces oblique, and the spinous process long and nearly horizontal. On each side of the body is a complete circular facet close to the upper border for the first rib, and a demi-facet below for the second. The Tenth Dorsal Vertebra touches only one rib on each side, and has a single nearly complete articular surface, mainly on the pedicle. There is the usual facet on the transverse process. The Eleventh Dorsal Vertebra has a complete articular surface on each side for the head of the rib, but no facet on the transverse process. The Twelfth Dorsal Vertebra has also only a single facet on each side; the inferior articular processes have their surfaces turned out- wards, resembling those of a lumbar vertebra; the transverse processes are short and present three elevations, the external, superior, and inferior tubercles, which correspond to the transverse, mammillary, and accessoiy processes of the lumbar vertebrae (v. fig. 10, 6, e,f). Indications of these tubercles are also seen upon the tenth and eleventh vertebrae.