LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX. 536 4. The superior mediastinal or cardiac glands, eight to ten in number, are placed in the upper part of the interpleural space, in con- nection with the arch of the aorta and the innominate veins ; they re- ceive the lymphatics of the heart, of the greater part of the pericardium, and of the thymus gland. Their efferent ducts form two or three vessels on each side, which ascend along the trachea to the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts respectively. 5. The bronchial glands are numerous, and are continuous above with the foregoing group ; the largest occupy the interval between the Fig. 307. Fig. 307.—The lym- phatics OF THE HEAD AND NECK AND OFTHEUP- PER PART OF THE TRUNK (from Mascagni). | The chest and pericar- dium have been opened on the left side, and the left mamma detached and thrown outwards over the left arm, so as to expose a great part of its deep surface. The principal lymphatic vessels and glands are shown on the side of the head and face, and in the neck, axilla, and medias- tinum. P>etween the left internal jugular vein and the common carotid artery, the upper ascending part of the thoracic duct is seen marked 1, and above this, and descending to 2, the arch and last part of the duct. The termination of the upper lymphatics of the diaphragm in the me- diastinal glands, as well as the cardiac and the sternal glands, are also shown. bronchi at their divergence, and others of smaller size accompany the primary divisions of each of those tubes in the hilus of the lung. They receive the lymphatics of the lung ; and their efferent vessels, forming two or three considerable trunks, ascend on the trachea with those of the cardiac glands to join the great lymphatic ducts. In early infancy the colour of the bronchial glands is pale red; towards puberty they become greyish and studded with dark spots; at a more advanced age they are frequently very dark or almost black. 6. The posterior mediastinal glands, eight to twelve, lie along the descending thoracic aorta and oesophagus, receiving lymphatics from the latter and from the hinder parts of the pericardium and the diaphragm; their efferent vessels join mainly the thoracic duct, but some pass also to the bronchial glands. The deep lymphatics of the thoracic wall are divided into two