184 ARTICULATIONS OP THE LOWER LIMB. forwards from the two outer synovial cavities of the tarso-metatarsal articulations, and they are connected by dorsal, plantar, and inter- osseous ligaments. The dorsal and plantar ligaments are short trans- verse bands stretching across the four metatarsal bones from one to another. The interosseous ligaments, lying deeply between the bones, Fig. 154. Fig. 154.—Sagittal section of the ankle-joint and articulations of the right FOOT, A LITTLE TO THE INSIDE OF THE MIDDLE OF THE GREAT TOE. (A. T.) J 1, synovial cavity of tbe ankle-joint; 2, posterior astragalo-calcaneal articulation; 3, 3', astragalo-calcaneo-navicular articulation : the interosseous ligament is seen sepa- rating 2 from 3' ; 4, inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament; 5, part of the long plantar ligament; 6, naviculo-cuneiform articulation ; 7, first cuneo-metatarsal articulation ; 8, first metatarso-phalangeal articulation ; 9, section of the inner sesamoid hone ; 10, interphalangeal articulation ; 11, placed on the calcaneum, indicates the bursa between the upper part of the tuberosity of that bone and the tendo Achillis. connect the rough parts of their lateral surfaces ; they are of consider- able strength and firmness. The first and second metatarsal bones do not usually articulate laterally with each other. Transverse metatarsal iigament.—The digital extremities or heads of the metatarsal bones are loosely connected by a transverse band, which is identical in its arrangement with the corresponding structure in the hand, with this exception, that it is attached to the great toe, whereas in the hand the transverse metacarpal ligament does not reach the thumb. Metatarso-phalangeal and Interphalangeal Articulations.— The heads of the metatarsal bones are connected with the small concave articular surfaces of the first phalanges by two lateral ligaments, an inferior ligament, which is developed into a thick fibrous or sesamoid plate, and a synovial membrane,—all being closely similar to the corresponding parts of the hand. In the first metatarso-phalangeal articulation the sesamoid plate is divided into two parts, which are fully ossified, forming the sesamoid bones. These are held together by strong transverse ligamentous fibres, and being provided with cartilaginous surfaces, move upon the corresponding grooved cartilaginous surfaces of the head of the first metatarsal bone. The articulations of the phalanges with one another are also con- structed on the same plan as those of the superior extremity. In each