MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 262 Varieties.—The tendons of this muscle vary considerably both as to number and position, they may be reduced to two, or one of them may be doubled, or an additional slip may pass to the little toe. The innermost portion of the muscle is commonly separate much farther back than the other slips, and is described by many anatomists as a distinct muscle under the name of extensor brevis hallucis. The first layer of muscles of the sole includes the short common flexor of the toes, and the abductors of the great and little toes. The flexor brevis digitorum, or flexor perforatus, arises by a small pointed attachment from the fore part of the inner tubercle of the Fig. 1S9.—First layer op muscles op the sole. J. a, plantar fascia ; b, tendon of flexor longus digi- torunx to second toe; c, tendon of flexor longus hal- lucis ; 1, abductor hallucis; 2, flexor brevis digi- torum ; 3, abductor minimi digiti; 5, first lumbricalis; 6, inner head of flexor brevis hallucis; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti. calcaneum, from the deep surface of the plantar fascia for about two inches forwards, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The muscle terminates in four slender tendons which are inserted into the second phalanges of the four outer toes. Each tendon prior to its insertion divides and gives passage to the tendon of the long flexor, in a manner precisely similar to the arrange- ment of the tendons of the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus muscles of the hand. Selations.—This muscle lies between the ab- ductor hallucis and abductor minimi digiti, and is covered by the plantar fascia; it conceals the flexor accessorius, with the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. Varieties.—The slip of this muscle to the little toe, which is regularly much smaller than the others, is frequently wanting; or it may be re- placed by a small fusiform muscle arising from the outer side of the long flexor tendon, or more rarely from the flexor accessorius. On the other hand, the muscle has been seen with five tendons, two passing to the second toe. The abductor hallucis muscle (ahd. pollicis pedis) arises from the inner part of the larger tubercle of the calcaneum, from the internal annular ligament, from the septum between it and the flexor brevis digi- torum, and from the plantar fascia covering it. The fleshy fibres end in a tendon which, after being joined by fibres of the internal head of the flexor brevis hallucis, is inserted into the inner border of the base of the first jihalanx of the great toe. Relations.—It is covered by the thin internal division of the plantar fascia. Its deep surface is in contact with the tendons of the tibialis posticus, and long flexor muscles, with the flexor brevis hallucis, and with the plantar vessels and nerves. Varieties.—The abductor hallucis occasionally sends a slip to the base of the first phalanx of the second toe. Its tendon of insertion is sometimes joined by a Fig. 139.