330 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. nearly to the middle line behind the recti muscles. In its upper two-thirds it becomes united with the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the in- ternal oblique, forming the posterior Avail of the rectus sheath, and interiorly, where that aponeurosis passes entirely in front of the rectus, it takes a similar position in relation to that muscle. The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis springs by strong fibrous bundles from the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and extends outwards to the commencement of the fleshy fibres, being placed between the erector spinae and quadratus lumborum muscles. Superiorly it is attached to the lower border of the last rib, and in- teriorly to the ilio-lumbar ligament and the adjoining part of the iliac crest. This membrane constitutes the middle layer of the lumbar fascia, and it is joined behind, at the outer edge of the erector spinae, by the posterior layer, and in front, more externally, at the outer edge of the quadratus, by the anterior layer of that structure. Relations.—Between the outer surface of this muscle and the internal oblique are placed the lower intercostal nerves and a branch of the internal circumflex artery: its inner surface is lined throughout by the transversalis fascia, which separates it from the subperitoneal tissue and the peritoneum. The highest part of the transversalis is continued into the triangularis steriii muscle of the thorax. Varieties.—The transversalis has been found fused with the internal oblique (Soemmering) ; or entirely absent (Macalister). The spermatic cord has been seen to pierce its lower border (Guthrie). The rectus abdominis is a long flat muscle, consisting of vertical fibres, situated at the fore part of the abdomen, within a tendinous sheath formed in the manner already described in the account of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle ; it is separated from the muscle of the other side by a narrow interval, which is occupied by the linea alba. It arises from the pubis by a flat tendon consisting of tAVO parts, of which the internal is much the smaller and is connected with the ligaments covering the front of the pubic symphysis, becoming- blended with the one of the opposite side, while the external is fixed to the pubic crest. Expanding and becoming thinner as it ascends, the muscle is inserted into the cartilages of three ribs, the fifth, sixth, and seventh, as well as usually into the bone of the fifth, by three distinct slips of unequal size. Some fibres also are frequently found attached to the ensiform process. The fibres of the rectus muscle are interrupted by three or more irregular tendinous intersections, known as the inscriptiones tendinece. The three Avhich are most constant are placed, one opposite the umbilicus, another on a level Avith the lower end of the ensiform process, and the third intermediately betAveen the first tAvo ; and these generally run across the whole or the greater part of the muscle. When one or tAvo additional transverse lines occur, they are usually incomplete; one of them is very generally placed below the umbilicus, the position of the other is variable. The intersections do not usually penetrate the AA-hole thickness of the muscle, but are confined chiefly to its anterior fibres, and are firmly united to the anterior Avail of the sheath of the muscle, while the posterior surface of the muscle has no attachment to the sheath. Varieties.—The rectus is sometimes joined by some fibres springing from the lower part of the linea alba. The insertion of the muscle has been seen pro- longed upwards to the fourth, and even to the third rib.