589 HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. B. Branches of distribution. The descending branch (r. descendens noni) leaves the trunk of the hypoglossal nerve as it crosses over the occipital artery, or a little higher up. It passes downwards on the surface of the common carotid artery, inclining gradually from the outer to the inner side, and being placed generally within, but sometimes on the front of, the carotid sheath. After having given off a branch to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, it joins about the middle of the neck in a loop with one or two branches from the second and third cervical nerves (r. communicantes noni), giving rise to what is termed the ansa hijpoglossi. The concavity of the loop is turned upwards, and the connection between the nerves is frequently effected by two or more interlacing filaments which form a small plexus. From this interlacement of the nerves, offsets are con- tinued backwards to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and down- wards to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Occasionally a filament is continued to the thorax, where it joins the cardiac and phrenic nerves. Muscular branches.—The branch to the thyro-hyoid muscle is a separate twig arising from the hypoglossal trunk as it approaches the hyoid bone. As it lies beneath the mylo-hyoid, the nerve gives offsets to the stylo- glossus, hyo-glossus and genio-hyoid muscles, and the terminal branches, penetrating the genio-glossus, supply that muscle and the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. Varieties.—In one instance, recorded by Riidinger, the hypoglossal nerve was found taking its superficial origin from the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata. The vertebral artery is not unfrequently found passing forwards between, very rarely above, the roots of the nerve. The right and left nerves are occasionally united by a cross branch or loop in the substance of the genio-hyoid, or between that and the genio-glossus muscle. In rare cases, the twelfth nerve gives filaments to the mylo-hyoid muscle (Krause). The descending branch sometimes appears to be derived either altogether from the pneumo-gastric or from both the pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves, but it can generally be shown by dissection that these varieties of origin are only apparent, resulting from the temporary adhesion of the filaments of this branch to those of the pneumo-gastric. It is probable, moreover, that the descendens noni has little if any real origin from the hypoglossal nerve, being formed (according to Luschka, E. Bischoff, Holl and others) of fibres derived from the upper cervical nerves, temporarily associated -with the hypoglossal. It is also stated by IIoll that the thyro-hyoid and genio-hyoid branches are similarly composed of fibres proceeding from the spinal nerves (Zeitsch. f. Anat., 1876). In many animals the twelfth nerve possesses a posterior root furnished with a ganglion, like a spinal nerve. Summary.—The hypoglossal nerve supplies, either alone or in union with branches of the spinal nerves, all the muscles connected with the hyoid bone, including those of the tongue, but with the exception of the digastric, stylo-hyoid, mylo-hyoid and the middle constrictor of the pharynx. It also supplies the sterno-thyroid muscle. It is connected with the following nerves, viz., pneumo-gastric, lingual, three upper cervical nerves, and the sympathetic.