500 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. vertebral muscles. From this plexus two or three vessels descend, and open into the internal jugular or the common facial vein, either separately or in union with the lingual or superior thyroid veins. (c) Lingual veins.—The blood conveyed to the tongue by the lingual artery is returned by means of—1, the ranine vein, the largest of the lingual veins, which commences below the tip of the tongue, and passes backwards at first beneath the mucous membrane, and afterwards across the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, in company with the hypo- glossal nerve, receiving branches from the substance of the tongue, the surrounding muscles, the sublingual gland, and the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth ; 2, two venae comites of small size which accompany the lingual artery; and 3, the dorsal veins of the tongue, which proceed from a plexus beneath the mucous membrane on the posterior third of that organ. These vessels are sometimes united in a short common trunk, but more frequently they open separately into the internal jugular or common facial vein. (d) The common facial vein has already been described. (c) The superior thyroid vein leaves the upper part of the thyroid body, after communicating freely with the other thyroid veins, and ascends to join the internal jugular or frequently the common facial vein. It receives branches from the surrounding muscles, and the superior laryngeal and crico-thyroid veins. (/) The middle thyroid vein issues from the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, and crosses the common carotid artery to join the internal jugular vein on a level with, or a little below, the cricoid cartilage. VENOUS CIRCULATION WITHIN THE CRANIUM. The part of the venous system contained within the skull consists of veins properly so called, and of certain channels named sinuses, which receive the blood from those veins, and conduct it to the internal jugular veins. The sinuses alluded to are spaces left between the layers of the dura mater, the fibrous covering of the brain. VEINS OF THE BRAIN. The veins of the cerebrum are divided into superficial, which ramify upon its surface, and deep which are placed within its ventricles. The former are again subdivided into superior and inferior. The superior cerebral veins, ten to twelve in number on each side, run inwards over the upper surface of the large brain, lying for the most part in the sulci between the convolutions, to the margin of the longitu- dinal fissure, where they are joined by branches which ascend on the mesial surface of the hemisphere, and then open into the superior longi- tudinal sinus. The anterior veins are small, and are directed transversely inwards ; the middle and posterior are larger, pass obliquely forwards, and finally are embedded for a short distance in the wall of the sinus before opening into its cavity. Unlike the arteries, these vessels anasto- mose freely with one another and with the inferior cerebral veins. The inferior cerebral veins pass from the outer and lower surfaces of the hemisphere to the cavernous, superior petrosal and lateral sinuses. One of these vessels, known as the middle cerebral vein, is of large size, and, after collecting branches from the under surface of the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes, emerges from the lower part of the fissure of