234 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. seating the agitator caudae of the lower animals. The fibres arising from the sacro-sciatic ligament and the margin of the sacrum are normally separated by a ^ layer of areolar tissue from the superficial portion, and a powerful development of the deep part has given rise to the bilaminar condition described by Tiedemann and others (Henle). The gluteus medius muscle, covered partly by the gluteus maximus, partly by the fascia lata, arises from the surface of the ilium between the crest, the superior aud the middle curved lines, and in front of the gluteus maximus from the strong fascia covering its outer surface. The muscular fibres converge as they descend, the anterior fibres passing obliquely backwards, the posterior fibres obliquely forwards, and termi- nate in a flattened tendon, which is inserted into an oblique impression directed downwards and forwards on the outer surface of the great trochanter. The tendon is separated by a small bursa from the upper part of the trochanter. Fig. 177.—Deep muscles of the hip on THE LEFT SIDE, FROM BEHIND. 5 The gluteus maximus, and the muscles of the thigh have been removed. 1, 1, gluteus medius ; 2, pyriformis ; 3, gemellus supe- rior ; 4, gemellus inferior ; 5, obturator in- ternus, seen partially within the pelvis, and, after issuing by the small sciatic notch, between the gemelli muscles ; 6, quadratus femoris ; 7, tendon of the obturator exter- nus between the gemellus inferior and quad- ratus. Relations.—Between this muscle and the gluteus minimus are the superior gluteal nerve and the deep branches of the gluteal vessels. At its anterior border its fibres are parallel to and generally united with those of the gluteus minimus. This border also is overlapped by the tensor vaginae femoris. The posterior border is in contact with the pyriformis, the superficial part of the gluteal vessels passing between the two. Varieties.—Some of the deeper fibres of the muscle occasionally end in a sepa- rate tendon which is inserted into the upper border of the great trochanter. The posterior border of the muscle is sometimes closely united to the pyriformis, or some of the fibres end on the tendon of that muscle. A bursa is occasionally pre- sent between the tendon of this muscle and the pyriformis (1 in 15, Macalister). The gluteus minimus, (fig. 178, 1) covered by the preceding muscle, arises from the whole space on the ilium between the middle and inferior curved lines. The fibres, converging as they descend, terminate in an aponeurotic tendon on the outer surface of the muscle, which becoming narrowed is inserted into an impression on the anterior border of the great trochanter. The tendon is bound down to the prominence of the trochanter by a strong fibrous band which joins it from the upper margin of the capsule of the hip-joint. A synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon and the trochanter. Relations.—The anterior border of the muscle is in contact with that of the gluteus medius ; its deep surface with the capsule of the hip joint, and the pos- Fig. 177.