THE DIAPHRAGM. 317 THE DIAPHRAGM. The diaphragm, or midriff, forms a musculo-tendinous partition between the abdominal and thoracic cavities. It consists of muscular fibres which arch upwards as they converge from the circumference of the visceral cavity to an aponeurotic tendon in the centre, and it is perforated by the various structures which pass from the thorax to the abdomen. According to the mode of origin and arrangement of its fibres the diaphragm is divided into a vertebral portion, arising posteriorly from the lumbar vertebrae by two thick processes or crura, and from two fibrous bands on each side external to the bodies of the vertebrae, called arched ligaments; a costal portion on each side, arising from the car- tilages of the lower six ribs ; and a sternal portion, arising anteriorly from the back of the ensiform process. Fig. 212. Fig. 212.—The lower half of THE THORAX, WITH FOUR LUMBAR VERTEBR.E, SHOWING THE DIA- PHRAGM PROM BEFORE (modified from Lusclika). (A. T.) 5 a, sixtli dorsal vertebra; b, fourth lumbar vertebra; c, ensi form process ; d, d', the aorta pass- ing through its opening in the dia- phragm ; e, oesophagus ; /, opening in the tendon of the diaphragm for the inferior vena cava ; 1, central, 2, right, and 3, left division of the trefoil tendon of the dia- phragm ; 4, right, and 5, left costal part, ascending from the ribs to the margins of the tendon ; 6, right, and 7, left crus; 8, to 8, on the right side, the sixth, seventh and eighth inter- nal intercostal muscles, deficient towards the vertebral column, where in the two upper spaces the levatores costarum and the ex- ternal intercostal muscles 9, 9, are seen ; 10, 10, on the left side, sub- costal muscles, in this case largely developed. The crura or pillars arise by tendinous fibres, intimately connected with the anterior common ligament, from the upper three or four lumbar vertebrae and the interposed discs on the right side, and from the first S and second vertebrae and corresponding discs on the left side. The tendinous portions of the crura are continued higher internally than externally, and curving forwards and inwards join in the middle line so as to form an arch over the front of the aorta; while interiorly their inner ; margins frequently meet behind that vessel, which is thus enclosed in an I oval fibrous loop or ring. The muscular fibres of the crura, springing from the tendons in thick bundles, diverge as they pass upwards to the concave posterior margin of the central aponeurosis. The innermost fibres of the two pillars decussate in front of the aortic opening, and pass