BONES OF THE HEAD. n a less extent the cartilage itself participates in the ossification. At birth it con- sists of the lateral parts united at the symphysis by fibrous tissue, the osseous union takes place in the first year. The process of ossification commences very early, being preceded only by the clavicle, and proceeds rapidly : its precise method is still uncertain, but most observers are agreed that it takes place from several centres, which speedily unite. The largest part of each half is formed from a deposit in the membrane on the outer side of Meckel’s cartilage, and, according to Callender (Joe. cit.), there is added on the inner side of this a second smaller plate which forms the floor of the dental groove (subsequently the inferior dental canal) and the inner wall of the tooth-sockets. A small part of the body by side of the symphysis results from the direct ossification of the anterior end of Meckel’s cartilage; and, posteriorly, the condyle and a where it becomes continuous with rounded by fibrous tissue which Fig. 63. Fig. 63.—The inferior maxilla of a CHILD AT BIRTH (11. Qliain). a & b indicate the two portions separate at the symphysis. portion of the ramus are developed from another ossification in cartilage. The last, however, is not connected with Meckel’s cartilage, which can be seen in a foetus of the fifth or sixth month to be prolonged up to the fissure of Glaser, the slender process of the malleus, sur- eventually forms the so-called internal lateral ligament of the jaw. At birth the coronoid process is large, the neck of the condyle short and bent backwards, the ramus also very short and oblique, the angle at which it joins the body of the jaw being about 140°. During the succeeding years the body becomes deeper, thicker, and longer, the ramus and the neck of the condyle lengthen, and the angle at which the ramus joins the body becomes less obtuse, till in the adult it is nearly a right angle. In old age, consequent upon the loss of the teeth and the absorption of the alveolar margin, the body becomes shallower, and the angle is again increased. The hyoid bone has five points of ossification—one for the body, and one for each of its great and small cornua. The ossification begins in the great cornua and body in the last month of foetal life, in the small cornua in the first year after birth. The great cornua and body unite in middle life, the small cornua only exceptionally in advanced age. The stylo-hyoid ligaments are occasionally ossified in some part of their extent. GENERAL MORPHOLOGY OE THE BONES OF THE HEAD. The circumstances which contribute most to modify the form of the human skull and the condition of its component bones, as compared with that of animals, are—1st, the proportionally large size of the brain and the corresponding- expansion of the cranial bones which enclose it; 2nd, the smaller development of the face as a whole, and especially of the jaws, which brings the facial bones almost entirely under the fore part of the brain-case, instead of in front of it, as occurs in all animals, with the partial exception of the anthropoid apes ; and 3rd, the adaptation of the human skeleton to the erect posture, which, as regards the head, is attended with the sudden bend of the basicranial axis at a consider- able angle upon the line of the erect vertebral column ; and along with this the advance of the occipito-vertebral articulation to such an extent as to make the head nearly balanced on the upper extremity of the spine. The downward openings of the nostrils, the forward aspect of the orbits and eyes, the nearly vertical fore- head and more or less oval-shaped face, are accompaniments of these human peculiarities in the form of the head, which, together with those already men- tioned, strongly contrast with the smaller cranium and its strong crests of bone,