372 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK turned over the lower border of the maxilla, and, running forwards beneath the depressor anguli oris, distributes branches to the skin and muscles of the lower lip, anastomosing with the inferior coronary, sub- mental, and mental arteries. This is frequently an offset of the following branch. (&) The coronary artery of the lower lip (v). Arising at the outer border of the depressor anguli oris, this branch takes a transverse and tortuous course beneath that muscle, and between the orbicularis oris and the mucous membrane near the free margin of the lip, and inosculates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. Small twigs from it supply the orbicular and depressor muscles, the glauds, and other structures of the lower lip ; and some descend towards the chin to communicate there with other branches. (c) The coronary artery of the upper lip (v), arises beneath the zygo- maticus major muscle. It runs across between the muscle and mucous membrane of the upper lip, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. In addition to supplying the whole thickness of the upper lip, it gives two or three small branches to the nose. One of these, named the artery of the septum, runs along the border of the columna nasi, on which it ramifies as far as the point of the nose. {cl) The lateral nasal artery, often replaced by two or three smaller branches, turns inwards to the side of the nose, over which it ramifies, sending offsets to the ala and the dorsum. It anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, with the artery of the septum, and with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. (e) Angular artery. Under this name is recognised the slender terminal part of the facial artery, which inosculates at the inner side of the orbit with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. Varieties.— Origin.—The facial artery frequently arises by a common trunk ■with the lingual. Occasionally it arises above its usual position, and then descends beneath the angle of the jaw to assume its ordinary course. Size.—This artery varies much in size, and in the extent of its distribution. It has been observed, very rarely, however, to end as the submental, not reach- ing the side of the face : hi some cases it supplies the face only as high as the lower lip ; and it often fails to supply the lateral nasal and angular branches. The deficiency of the facial artery is most frequently compensated for by an enlargement of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic at the inner side of the orbit]; occasionally by branches from the transverse facial, or internal maxillary artery. As a rare occurrence it has been found larger than usual, and replacing the nasal and frontal branches of the ophthalmic. Branches.—Thq ascending palatine artery is in some instances transferred to the external carotid. This branch varies in size and the extent to which it reaches. Not unfrequently it is expended without furnishing any branch to the soft palate. When it is thus reduced in size, the pharyngeal artery takes its place in the soft palate. The submental branch has been observed to take its rise from the sublingual artery. On the other hand, the facial artery, instead of the lingual, sometimes furnishes the branch which supplies the subling-ual gland. The two coronary arteries sometimes arise by a common trunk ; and one or other of these vessels may be smaUer than usual, the corresponding artery of the opposite side being enlarged and supplying the deficiency. 4. Occipital artery (iv).—The occipital artery, arising from the posterior part of the external carotid, usually opposite the facial or a little higher up, is directed upwards and backwards, beneath the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, to the interval between the transverse