MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIME. 201 muscles, and parts of the long and outer heads of the triceps, as also the cir- cumflex vessels and nerve. Varieties.—The deltoid muscle is not subject to great varieties. One of the commonest is a greater degree of subdivision of its parts than usual. Another is the continuation into it of fibres from the trapezius, as in animals wanting the clavicle. Occasionally the anterior part is closely united in its whole length with the great pectoral muscle. Its insertion varies sometimes in extent. A remark- able prolongation of its tendon on the radial border of the forearm, as far as the insertion of the supinator longus, seems to repeat the tensor plicae alaris of the bird. (Macalister.) The supraspinatus muscle arises from the supraspinous fossa of the scapula to within a short distance of the neck of the bone, and from an aponeurosis by which it is covered. Its fibres converge beneath the acromion to a tendon, which adheres to the capsule of the shoulder-joint and to the tendon of the infraspinatus muscle, and is inserted into the upper of the three facets on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The infraspinatus muscle is of a triangular form, and occupies the greater part of the infraspinous fossa. It arises from the fascia covering it, from the under surface of the spine, and from the inner two-thirds of the dorsal surface of the scapula in the fossa, except those parts at the lower angle and along the external border, to which the teres muscles are attached. The fibres converge to a tendon, which, concealed at first within the substance of the muscle, is inserted into the middle facet of the great tuberosity of the humerus. Itelations.—The supraspinatus muscle is covered by the trapezius and the acro- mion process. The suprascapular nerve and vessels pass beneath it. The infraspinatus muscle is bound down by the aponeurosis which superiorly and externally divides so as to enclose the deltoid muscle. It is covered by the deltoid at its upper and outer part, and by the trapezius at its upper and inner part, by the latissimus dorsi at its lower angle, and in the intermediate portion it remains superficial. A small bursa is sometimes present between the tendon and the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Varieties.—The infraspinatus muscle is sometimes inseparably united with the teres minor. The supraspinatus is very constant in its form and attachments. The teres minor muscle is placed along the outer border of the infraspinatus, and is intimately connected with that muscle. It arises from a narrow obliquely grooved surface on the dorsum of the scapula close to the axillary border, and from aponeurotic septa between it and the infraspinatus and teres major muscles, and is inserted by tendon into the greater tuberosity of the humerus, immediately below the infra- spinatus, and by fleshy fibres into the bone for a short distance lower down. Itelations.—This muscle is partly covered behind by the deltoid, and in front is in contact with the long head of the triceps, and the capsule of the shoulder- joint. The dorsal scapular artery passes between, it and the bone. At its lower border is the teres major separated in part by the long head of the triceps. A bursa is sometimes found between the tendon and the bone. , The teres major muscle arises from the flat oval surface on the dorsum of the scapula near its inferior angle, slightly from the axillary border of the bone, and from the septa between it and the teres minor and infraspinatus muscles. It is inserted by a flat tendon, about two inches wide, into the inner border of the bicipital groove of the humerus,