G6S SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. The supraorbital nerve and artery pass almost vertically upwards from the supraorbital notch, and more internally the frontal artery and supra- trochlear nerve ascend over the margin of the orbit, while the large frontal vein descends in a similar position to the root of the nose. Posteriorly, the occipital vessels and great occipital nerve run upwards to the vertex, entering the scalp somewhat internal to a point midway between the external occipital protuberance and the mastoid process. The super- ficial temporal artery crosses the base of the zygoma immediately in fron t of the ear, and its anterior branch can frequently be seen, especially in old persons, running upwards and forwards with a tortuous course over the fore part of the temporal muscle towards the forehead. In contact with the inner surface of the cranial wall, the superior longitudinal sinus is directed backwards along the middle line, extending from the lower part of the forehead to the external occipital protuber- ance ; from the latter point the lateral sinus runs horizontally outwards and forwards to a spot about an inch behind the external auditory meatus, where it turns downwards towards the mastoid process. The anterior and larger branch of the middle meningeal artery runs upwards and backwards within the skull in the fore part of the temporal region ; a point two inches above the zygoma and two inches behind the level of the external angular process marks the spot where the vessel is leaving the deep groove or canal which it occupies on the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The extent downwards of the cerebrum is indicated by a line drawn in the direction of the eyebrow about one-sixth of an inch above the upper margin of the orbit, and then carried backwards and downwards on the side of the head over the posterior root of the zygoma to the external occipital protuberance. The bifurcation of the fissure of Sylvius corre- sponds to a point one inch and a quarter behind, and a quarter of an inch above the level of, the external angular process ; from this point the anterior limb of the fissure ascends almost vertically for nearly an inch, while the posterior limb runs backwards and a little upwards for a distance of about tln-ee inches, and terminates beneath the parietal eminence. The upper end of the furrow of Rolando is placed about half an inch behind a point midway between the root of the nose and the external occipital protuberance ; its lower end is close to the posterior limb, and about an inch behind the bifurcation, of the fissure of Sylvius. The external parieto-occipital fissure is directed transversely outwards, for somewhat less than an inch, from the apex of the lambdoid suture, the latter spot being situated between two and three inches above the external occipital protuberance. In the face proper, the nasal bones and the margin of the anterior nasal aperture are readily traced, and at the lower part of the latter, in the root of the columna nasi, the anterior nasal spine is felt. In front of this opening the form of the upper and lower lateral cartilages can be distinguished, and the inner portion of the latter is more clearly made out by passing the finger into the nostril, by 'which means part of the cartilage of the septum, the lower margin of the upper lateral cartilage, and sometimes the tip of the inferior turbinate bone can also be felt. Below the base of the zygoma, the temporo-maxillary articulation is quite superficial behind the upper part of the masseter, and from the condyle the posterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw can be fol- lowed to the angle. The lower margin of the jaw can also be felt