SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 49 The internal border presents, behind the nasal process, an excavation which receives the lachrymal bone, the lachrymal notch, and then a straight margin for articulation with the ethmoid and palate bones. The posterior border is smooth, rounded and free, and bounds the spheno- maxillary fissure; the infraorbital groove commences here, and leads forwards into the canal of the same name, which opens anteriorly by the infraorbital foramen. From the infraorbital is given off the anterior dented canal, which runs down in the substance of the facial portion of the bone, and conveys the anterior dental vessels and nerves. The nasal process, slender and tapering, has an external surface, smooth and continuous with the facial surface of the body, and an internal surface, irregular, fitting against the anterior extremity of the lateral mass of the ethmoid, and completing the foremost cells of that bone. The anterior border is rough, often grooved, for articulation with the nasal bone, and its summit is serrated for articulation with the frontal. Posteriorly it presents a continuation of the lachrymal groove already seen on the nasal surface of the body, and which here lodges the lachry- mal sac ; the groove is bounded internally by a sharp linear edge, which articulates with the lachrymal bone, and externally by a smooth border which forms part of the orbital margin. The alveolar border or process, thick and arched, is hollowed out into sockets or alveoli, corresponding in number, form, and depth to the roots of the teeth, which are fixed in them. The malar process is thick and triangular; the anterior and posterior surfaces are continuous with the facial and zygomatic surfaces of the body ; the superior is rough and grooved to support the malar bone. The inferior border runs down on the outer surface of the body in the form of a thick buttress opposite the first molar tooth. The palate process or plate, along with that of the opposite side, forms about three-fourths of the hard palate. Its superior surface is smooth, and concave from side to side; its inferior surface is vaulted and rough, and is marked laterally with groves for nerves and vessels, which reach the palate through the posterior palatine canal. Its posterior extremity falls short of that of the alveolar arch and body of the bone, and articulates with the horizontal plate of the palate bone, which completes the hard palate. The mesial border rises into a serrated vertical ridge, which, with its fellow, constitutes the nasal crest—a grooved elevation which receives the lower margin of the vomer; at the fore part this border rises sud- denly to a considerable height, and the more elevated portion may be distinguished as the incisor crest (Henle) ; forwards this is prolonged into the anterior nasal spine, on its upper border rests the septal cartilage of the nose, and into the angle behind it the truncated anterior extremity of the vomer fits. Close by the side of the incisor crest on the upper surface of the palate plate is seen a foramen which is directed downwards to the mouth, but in the lower half becomes converted into a wider groove by deficiency of the inner wall. Thus, when the two bones are placed in apposition, one orifice of considerable size is formed on the palatal aspect which divides above into right and left branches leading to the corresponding nasal fossae; the lower aperture is the anterior 'palatine canal, the lateral branches are the incisor foramina (or canals), or foramina of Stenson. Farther, in the middle line are two other smaller foramina also opening into the anterior palatine canal, one before, the other behind, these are the foramina of Scarpa. VOL. I. E