BONES OF THE HEAD. GG depth. The lower part or internal base of the skull is divided into three fossae, named anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior fossa, formed by the orbital plates of the frontal bone, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the small wings and part of the body of the sphenoid, supports the frontal lobes of the brain. It is convex laterally over the orbits, but sinks into a hollow over the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid, in the middle line of which the crista galli stands up, separating the deep olfactory grooves for the reception of the olfactory bulbs. In front of the crista galli is the foramen ca3cum, on each side are the numerous apertures of the cribriform plate, the inner openings of the internal orbital canals and the foramen by which the nasal nerve passes into the nose. The middle fossa, on a lower level than the anterior, presents a mesial and two lateral parts. The mesial part is small, being formed by the olivary eminence and sella turcica of the sphenoid bone, and limited be- hind by the dorsum sellm. The lateral part on each side, formed by the great wing of the sphenoid, the squamous part, and the anterior surface of the petrous part of the temporal, lodges the temporal lobe of the brain. The foramina of the middle fossa are the optic foramen, sphenoidal fissure, foramen rotundum, foramen ovale, foramen spinosum, foramen lacerum and hiatus Fallopii. The foramen lacerum (medium) is an irregular aperture between the apex of the petrous and the body and great wing of the sphenoid, and in the recent state is closed below by a mass of fibrous tissue ; the carotid canal opens on its external wall, the Vidian canal anteriorly. The lingula projecting backwards from the body of the sphenoid effects a partial, sometimes a complete sub- division of the space ; by the inner part the carotid artery enters the cranial cavity, and through the external the large superficial petrosal nerve, coming from the Vidian, reaches the hiatus Fallopii. The posterior fossa, deeper and larger than the others, extends back to the occipital protuberance, and lodges the cerebellum, medulla •oblongata and pons. The occipital bone, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal, the postero-inferior angle of the parietal and the body of the sphenoid take part in its formation. On the posterior surface of the petrous, which limits this fossa anteriorly on each side, is the internal auditory meatus; lower down is the jugular foramen ; between that and the foramen magnum is the anterior condylar foramen. The jugular foramen (foramen lacerum posterius) is formed by the jugular ■notches of the petrous and occipital bones ; somewhat pyriform in shape, two more ,or less marked constrictions indicate a division into three compartments; most ■externally and posterioriy is a large rounded part occupied by the lateral sinus ; the middle part, corresponding to a distinct notch in the lower border of the petrous, transmits the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves, and the most anterior and internal, sometimes completely separated by a spiculum of bone, gives passage to the inferior petrosal sinus. Grooves for Bloodvessels.—The groove of the middle meningeal artery commences at the foramen spinosum, and ramifies principally on the squamous portion of the temporal hone and on the parietal. The groove of the internal carotid artery lies on the side of the body of the sphenoid, and terminates inside the anterior clinoid process. The groove of the superior longitudinal sinus, commencing at the frontal crest, passes backwards in the middle line of the roof of the skull, and