226 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. The opponens pollicis muscle, placed behind the abductor, arises from the annular ligament and from the outer side of the ridge of the trapezium, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone Fig. 172. Fig. 172.—Muscles and tendons op the PALMAR ASPECT OP THE HAND. \ Portions of the tendons of the superficial flexor have been cut away to show those of the deep flexor and the lumbrieales. 1, tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, cut short; 2. tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, inserted into the pisi- form bone ; 3. anterior annular ligament ; 4, abductor pollicis ; 5, opponens pollicis ; 6, 6, flexor brevis pollicis ; 7, adductor pollicis ; 8, abductor minimi digiti; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti ; 10, lumbrieales. of the thumb at the radial border, as well as the adjoining part of the palmar surface. The flexor brevis pollicis muscle arises in two parts, a superficial and a deep. The superficial part, much the smaller, is attached to the outer two-thirds of the annular ligament at its lower border: the deep part is attached in several slips to the tra- pezium, to the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis, to the os magnum, and to the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. From these origins two strong masses of fibres proceed, which are known as the outer and inner heads of the muscle, and these, becoming tendinous, are Fig. 173. Fig. 173.—Deep muscles of the palm of THE HAND. 5 The abductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti, together with the anterior annular liga- ment and the deep flexor tendons in the palm, have been removed ; in the fore-finger the ten- dons of both the superficial and deep flexors remain ; in the other fingers the tendons of the superficial flexor have been removed. 1, pronator quadratus muscle ; 2, opponens pol- licis ; 3, flexor brevis pollicis; 4, adductor pollicis; 5, opponens minimi digiti; 6, unci- form bone ; 7, 8, interosseous muscles. inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb ; the outer head is also joined by a consi- derable fasciculus from the deeper origin ; the inner head is inserted con- jointly with the adductor pollicis. In each of the tendons of insertion a sesamoid bone is developed, which plays over the head of the first metacarpal bone. The tendon of the long flexor lies between the two origins, and grooves the surface of the muscle as it passes between the heads of insertion.