SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE NECK. 673 The position of the tonsil corresponds externally to the angle of the jaw. Behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, between it and the trapezius, is the intermuscular space known as the posterior triangle of the neck ; interiorly, this gives rise to a broad depression, the supraclavicular fossa, in which the omo-hyoid muscle and the brachial plexus may be felt, and in thin persons seen. In the angle between the sterno-mastoid and the clavicle, the third part of the subclavian artery can be felt pulsating, and the circulation in the vessel may be arrested here by pressure directed downwards and backwards against the first rib. The subcla- vian artery, as it crosses the root of the neck, describes a curve with the convexity upwards, having its inner end behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, its outer end beneath the centre of the clavicle, and its mid-point from half an inch ^to an inch above that bone. The left artery is more deeply placed at first than the right, and does not usually rise so high in the neck. The subclavian vein is placed at a lower level, and is, as a rule, entirely under cover of the clavicle. The pleura and lung ascend above the clavicle into the arch formed by the subclavian artery'. The pulsation of the transverse cervical artery may frequently he distinguished a short distance above the clavicle. The external jugular vein runs over the surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle in the direction of a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the centre of the clavicle, and is covered only by the integument and the platysma, the fibres of the latter being nearly parallel to the course of the vein. Near the clavicle, the vein becomes considerably enlarged, being joined, by some branches from the shoulder (transverse cervical and suprascapular), which, with the lower part of the trunk, generally form a more or less dense plexus over the third part of the subclavian artery. About an inch below the tip of the mastoid process, the spinal accessory nervelpasses beneath the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid ; emerging at, or slightly above, the middle of the posterior border of this muscle, it then continues its oblique course across the posterior triangular space, and sinks beneath the upper border of the trapezius on a level with the sixth or seventh cervical spine ; under the latter muscle, the nerve runs downwards immediately internal to the vertebral border of the scapula. The great auricular and superficial cervical nerves also come out at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid about the middle of its length, and are thence directed, the great auricular upwards to the ear, and the superficial cervical forwards to the front of the neck. SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE TRUNK. THE CHEST. On the front of the chest, the greater part of the thoracic wall is concealed on each side by the pectoralis major, the uppermost portion of the muscle extending over the inner half of the clavicle from which it arises, while interiorly, it forms a prominent curved margin, which follows the direction of the fifth costal cartilage. Externally, the upper and lower borders of the muscle converge as it narrows to its insertion ; the former is at first separated from the adjacent anterior margin of the deltoid by the infraclavicular fossa, but lower down the two muscles become closely united ; the lower margin of the pectoralis major leaves VOL. I. xx