SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. * In this section will be comprised, 1, a brief account of the external conformation of the body, including the relation of its anatomical con- stituents to its surface forms, and the mode of determining the position of deep seated organs, such as the viscera, large vessels, and other im- portant parts ; and 2, the topographical and surgical anatomy of the inguinal and perineal regions. SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE HEAD AND NECK. THE HEAD AND FACE. The upper part of the cranium is but thinly covered by the scalp, and the form of the head is almost exactly that of the skull. The bones can be readily examined by passing the hand over the head, and the following parts are thus to be distinguished :—In the middle line behind is the external occipital protuberance, from which the superior curved line proceeds outwards on each side towards the mastoid process ; below this line the bone is obscured by the overlying muscles. Above the occipital protuberance, the lambdoid suture is often to be followed as a slight depression on the surface. At the fore part of the lateral region of the head the temporal crest of the frontal bone becomes prominent, and leads down to the external angular process, the junction of which with the malar bone is marked by a distinct depression. Below this the outline of the malar bone can be followed, and from the hinder part of the latter the finger passes along the zygoma to its base in front of the ear. Higher up on the side of the head the temporal line on the parietal bone is frequently to be recognised, indicating the extent upwards of the temporal muscle. The margin of the orbit can be felt in its whole extent, and is found to be interrupted above, about the junction of the inner and middle thirds, by the supraorbital notch, unless this be con- verted into a foramen, when it is scarcely perceptible. Above the orbit is the superciliary ridge, small in the female and absent in the child, and often rendered more prominent by a largely developed frontal sinus ; above this on the forehead is the frontal eminence, which is, on the other hand, most marked during childhood. In the infant, the anterior fontanelle is felt as a lozenge-shaped depression, leading forwards to the interval between the two frontal, and backwards to that between the two parietal bones; the latter interval conducts to the triradiate posterior fontanelle, the lateral limbs of which are continued downwards along the upper margins of the occipital bone.