498 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. another of larger size, inferior dental, from the canal in the lower jaw ; two middle meningeal veins accompany the artery of the same name ; and lastly, superior palatine, infraorbital, and splieno-palatine veins, as well as a communicating branch from the inferior ophthalmic vein, also enter the plexus. The blood is conveyed from the plexus by the deep facial vein (p. 494) anteriorly, and posteriorly by the single or double internal maxillary vein. The posterior auricular vein, of large size in comparison with the artery of the same name, collects the blood from the hinder part of the side of the head and from the cranial surface of the auricle ; it descends over the mastoid process and the upper end of the sterno-mastoid muscle, to terminate in the external jugular vein. The occipital veins, generally two or three in number, issue from the hindmost part of the venous network of the scalp, the most external being also connected in most cases with the lateral sinus within the skull by means of the emissary vein occupying the mastoid foramen (this vein sometimes joins a branch of the posterior auricular) ; descending over the occipital bone, they pass deeply between the muscles of the back of the neck, and empty themselves into the commencement of the deep cervical vein. External jugular vein.—This vein commences near the angle of the jaw by the union of the posterior auricular and the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary veins. It descends with a nearly vertical course between the platysma myoides and the fascia, crossing the sterno-mastoid obliquely and gaining the posterior border of that muscle below. Near the clavicle it perforates the fascia, the margin of the opening being closely united to the wall of the vessel, and then inclines slightly inwards to terminate most frequently in the subclavian vein at the outer border or in front of the anterior scalenus muscle, sometimes in the lower end of the internal jugular, or in the angle between the two large veins. It is joined below the middle of the neck by a considerable vein (posterior external jugular') which descends from the occipital region, collecting branches from the integument and the superficial muscles of the back of the neck, and near its termination by the transverse cervical and supra- scapular veins from the shoulder, corresponding to the arteries of the same name, as well as usually by the anterior jugular vein from the fore part of the neck. The external jugular vein has an imperfect valve close to its termina- tion, and another, which, however, is generally sufficient to prevent regur- gitation, about an inch and a half above the clavicle. There are also valves in the transverse cervical and suprascapular veins, either at or a short distance from their orifices (Struthers, “ Anat. and Phys. Observ.,” p. 246). The anterior jugular vein takes its origin in the submaxillary region by the union of branches, some of which proceed from the superficial structures of this part and form communications with the submental vein, while others descend from the lower lip and chin. The vessel runs down the front of the neck, being placed a variable distance from the middle line, and frequently being connected by one or more cross branches with the external jugular vein ; near the inner end of the clavicle it perforates the fascia, and, after being joined in most cases by a communicating branch from the facial vein, is then directed outwards behind the origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle to open into the lower