568 CEANIAL NERVES. and the ramus of the lower jaw, and is inclined obliquely inwards to the side of the tongue, over the upper constrictor of the pharynx, (where this muscle is attached to the maxillary bone) and above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland. Lastly, the nerve crosses below Wharton’s duct, and is continued along the side of the tongue to the apex, lying immediately beneath the mucous membrane. Branches.—(a) Communicating branches.—In addition to the cord above mentioned passing from the inferior dental to the lingual nerve, and the connection with the facial nerve through the chorda tympani, the lingual nerve gives off branches to the submaxillary ganglion at the place where it is in contact with the submaxillary gland, and a little farther forwards one or two filaments descend over the fore part of the hyo-glossus muscle to join in loops with similar branches of the hypo- glossal nerve. (b) Branches to the mucous membrane of the mouth are given from the nerve at the side of the tongue, and supply also the gum. Some delicate filaments are likewise distributed to the sublingual gland. (c) The lingual or terminal branches perforate the muscular structure of the tongue, and divide into filaments which are directed upwards to the mucous membrane of the anterior two-thirds of the organ, where they terminate mainly in the conical and fungiform papilla?. Submaxillary Ganglion. The submaxillary or lingual ganglion (fig. 831, 7) is placed above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, and is connected by anterior and posterior filaments with the lingual nerve, from which it thus appears to be suspended by a loop. It is somewhat larger than the ophthalmic ganglion, and triangular or fusiform in shape. Its hinder part receives branches from nerves which may be regarded as its roots, while from its fore and lower parts proceed the branches for distribution. Roots of tiie ganglion.—The posterior connecting branch from the lingual nerve, often broken up into two or three filaments, conveys to the ganglion fibres from the chorda tympani and the inferior maxillary nerve, and thus represents the motor and sensory roots of the ganglion. The sympathetic root is formed by slender twigs from the plexus on the facial artery. Branches.— Five or six small nerves descend from the ganglion to the submaxillary gland, and others run forwards to the mucous membrane of the mouth and Wharton’s duct. The anterior branch of communication with the lingual nerve is probably composed of fibres which pass from the ganglion and are distributed with the offsets of that nerve. There is also occasionally a small branch or two passing to the hypoglossal nerve (Meckel, Bose). A minute sublingual ganglion is described by Blandin and some other anatomists on the filaments passing from the lingual nerve to the sublingual gland (fig 331, 8). Otic Ganglion. The otic ganglion, or ganglion of Arnold, of a reddish-grey colour, is oval in shape, flattened from within out, and measures about one-sixth of an inch in its longest (antero-posterior) diameter. It is situated immediately below the foramen ovale, on the deep surface of the inferior