527 ABSORBENT VESSELS. certain diseased conditions in which the branches of the portal vein within the liver are obstructed. The umbilical vein itself has occasionally been found patent for a variable distance below the liver, and receiving similar anastomosing branches. (Sappey, Mem. de l’Acad. de Med., xxiii., 269 ; Luschka, “ Anatomie des Bauches,” 238 ; Champneys, Journ. Anat., vi., 417 ; Baumgarten, Centralbl. f. d. med. Wiss., xv., 721.) Other commimications between the portal and the general systemic veins are established by means of anastomoses formed by the veins of the pancreas, duo- denum, colon and rectum with the parietal veins of the abdomen ; and also through the oesophageal veins and the haemorrhoidal plexus. 2.—ABSORBENT VESSELS. The absorbent vessels are divisible physiologically into two sets : the lacteals, which convey the chyle from the alimentary canal to the thoracic duct ; and the lymphatics, which take up the lymph from all the other parts of the body, and return it into the venous system. Anatomically considered, however, the lacteals are not different from the lymphatics, and may be regarded as the absorbents of the mucous membrane of the intestine. The larger lacteals and lymphatics are provided with numerous valves, which give them, when distended, a somewhat moniliform appearance ; and both are connected in their course with lacteal or lymphatic glands. The general anatomy of the absorbents being elsewhere detailed (Vol. II., p. 201) only their course and position remain to be here described. They are gathered into a right and a left trunk, which open into the angles of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. The large vessel of the left side traversing the thorax is named the thoracic duct: it receives not only the lympathics of its own side of the head and arm, and most of those of the trunk, but likewise the lymphatics of both lower limbs, and the whole of the lacteals. The short vessel of the right side is named the riyht lymphatic duct, and receives the lymphatics only of that side of the head and neck and upper part of the trunk. THORACIC DUCT. The thoracic duct is the common trunk which receives the absorbents from both the lower limbs, from the abdominal viscera (except part of the upper surface of the liver), and from the walls of the abdomen, from the left side of the thorax, left lung, left side of the heart, and left upper limb, and from the left side of the head and neck. It is from fif- teen to eighteen inches long in the adult, and extends usually from the second lumbar vertebra to the root of the neck. Its commencement, however, is often as low as the third lumbar vertebra ; and in some cases as high as the first lumbar, or even the last dorsal vertebra. Here there is usually a dilatation of the duct, of variable size, which is called rcceptaculum chyli (Pecquet), and is the common place of junction of the lymphatics from the lower limb with the trunks of the lacteal vessels. The lower part of the thoracic duct is generally wider than the rest, oeing about three lines in diameter ; it lies at its commencement to the right side of or behind the aorta, and then ascends between that vessel and the right crus of the diaphragm to the thorax, where it is placed at first upon the front of the dorsal vertebras, between the aorta and the