BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 453 deferens, in company with which it descends in the spermatic cord as far as the testicle, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. This branch may reinforce or even replace the last-mentioned vessel. Besides the superior and inferior vesical arteries, other small offsets are frequently furnished to the bladder from the obturator, sciatic, or other branches of the internal iliac artery. The vaginal artery (v) (vesico-vaginal) in the female corresponds to the inferior vesical artery in the male. Arising from the anterior Fig. 270. Fig. 270.—The arteries op the female pelvis, as seen on the removal of the left hip-bone, '&c. (from R. Quain). J a, auricular surface of the sacrum ; 6, spine of tlie ischium with the small sacro-sciatic ligament; c, os pubis, divided a little to the left of the symphysis ; d, on the sigmoid part of the colon, and d', on the lower part of the bladder, point to the ureter ; e, on the upper part of the body of the uterus, points to the ovary; /, on the upper part of the bladder, points to the Fallopian tube; /', round ligament of the uterus; 1, external iliac artery cut short; 2, internal iliac artery ; 3, gluteal artery cut short ; 4, 4, left pudic artery from which a part has been removed ; 4', the same artery in the perineum, and 4", its last part, proceeding to divide into the dorsal and deep arteries of the clitoris ; 5, placed on the sacral nerves, points to the sciatic artery; 6, vaginal artery, giving off branches to the bladder 6', and to the rectum 6"; 7, uterine artery; 8, superior vesical, and 8', obliterated hypogastric artery; 9, 9, ovarian artery, descending from tlie aorta; 10 superior hemorrhoidal artery, spreading over the side of the rectum. division of the internal iliac, or frequently from the uterine artery, it descends and ramifies upon the vagina, sending at the same time offsets to the lower part of the bladder, to the bulb of the vestibule, and to the contiguous part of the rectum. It anastomoses behind the vagina with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. 3. The middle hemorrhoidal artery (v) is frequently derived from the inferior vesical or the internal pudic artery. It ramifies on the lower part of the rectum, and anastomoses with the other hemorrhoidal and the inferior vesical arteries.