22 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. vertebrae, and two flat irregular plates of bone are added to each lateral surface of the sacrum, the uppermost of -which extends over the auricular surface and the lower over the sharp edge below. These appear from the 18th to the 20th year, and are united about the 25th. The bodies of the sacral vertebrae are at first separated by intervertebral discs, but about the 18th year, in the case of the lower vertebrae, ossification begins to extend through these discs and the epiphyses, so as com- pletely to unite the adjacent bodies. The ossific union of the first and second bodies does not take place till the 25th year or later. Previous to this, the lateral masses have coalesced nearly in the same order as the bodies. The deficiency of the spine and dorsal part of the laminae usually existing in the fifth sacral vertebra, and not unfrequently extending to the fourth, but more rarely to the third, may be attributed in part to the non-extension of ossification in that direction : but such varieties of form, like many others to which the sacral vertebrae are subject, are probably intimately connected with the nature and development of the formative matrix of the bones. The more completely open state of the sacral canal posteriorly found in cases of spina bifida is un- doubtedly connected with early morbid changes interfering with the natural process of development. Fig. 20. Fig. 20.—Ossification of the sacrum. (R. Quain.) A, sacrum of a fcetus before six months, seen from the front, showing the ossific centre in the body of each vertebra, from 1 downwards. B, at birth ; 2, 2, additional centres for the lateral masses. C, about twenty-three years ; 3, 3, epiphysial plates still visible above and below the first vertebral body, the fissures still remaining between the first and second and the second and third lateral masses ; 4, 4', lateral epiphysial plates. D, upper surface of first sacral vertebra at four or five years, 1, and 2, as in A and B. (A. T.) A & B, nearly full size ; C, one-fourth ; D, one-third. Coccygeal Vertebrae.—Each of the coccygeal vertebrae is ossified from a distinct piece of cartilage, and usually from a single centre, but in the upper sometimes from two centres. Ossification commences in the first generally about the time of birth ; in the second, from the 5th to the 10th year ; in the third, some time before, and in the fourth, some time after puberty. The ossific union of the three lower coccygeal vertebrae occurs before middle life; their union with the first, and the union of this with the sacrum, belong to the later periods of life. F'or more detailed information concerning the ossification of the vertebrae, as well as of the bones generally, reference may be made to Rambaud et Renault, “ Origine et Developpement des Os,” Paris, 1864. GENERAL AND SERIAL HOMOLOGY OF THE VERTEBRiE. The study of the various forms presented by the parts of the vertebral column, and of its relation to the rest of the skeleton in man and animals, as also of its development in the foetus, has led to the formation of the general views of