702 ANATOMY OF THE GROIN. inguinal fossa;. A little external to the obliterated hypogastric artery, the epigastric artery gives rise to another less prominent elevation of the peritoneum, and an external hernia descends, as already explained, on the outer side of this artery, and therefore at the outer part of the external fossa. The more usual form of internal hernia, that which has been described above, descends in the internal fossa, between the obliterated hypogastric artery and the rectus muscle ; while the less frequent form stretches the peritoneum of the inner part of the external fossa (some- times described separately as the middle inguinal fossa) and emerges between the hypogastric and epigastric arteries. Such a protrusion passes through a considerable portion of the inguinal canal to reach the external ring, and has therefore a certain degree of obliquity, whence this variety is frequently termed internal oblique inguinal hernia. It is also known as superior internal hernia, the direct form being called in- ferior internal. An internal oblique hernia passes outside the conjoined tendon, and so has no covering derived from that structure, but it receives one from the cremaster in the same way as an external hernia. Direct inguinal hernia is very rarely met with in the female. In the single case observed by Richard Quain as well as in the few cases found recorded in books, the hernia though not inconsiderable in size was still covered by the tendon of the external oblique muscle. FEMORAL HERNIA. A femoral hernia leaves the abdomen at the groin, passing beneath Poupart’s ligament, and over the anterior border of the hip-bone imme- diately at the inner side of the femoral vessels. It takes a downward course through the innermost compartment of the femoral sheath till it Fig. 378.—The groin of the right SIDE DISSECTED SO AS TO DISPLAY THE DEEP FEMORAL ARCH (R. Quain). I 1, outer part of tlie femoral arch; 1', part of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, with external inguinal ring, projecting through which is seen a portion of the spermatic cord, cut; 2, femoral arch at its insertion into the spine of the pubis, and to the outer side the fibres of Gimbernat’s ligament; 3, outer part of the femoral sheath ; 4, spermatic cord; 5, deep femoral arch—its inner end, where it is fixed to the pubis; 6, internal oblique muscle; 7, transversalis; below this the transversalis fascia continued into the femoral sheath under the deep femoral arch ; 8, con- joined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles; 9, tri- angular fascia. reaches the saphenous opening, when it turns forwards through the opening towards the front of the thigh, and is then bent upwards in the groin. The femoral or crural sheath is a somewhat funnel-shaped structure surrounding the upper parts of the femoral artery and vein. It is wide Fig. 378.