INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. 457 und runs between the layers of that structure to near the apex of the sub- pubic arch. Close to the ramus of the pubis it perforates the inferior layer of the triangular ligament, and ends under cover of the crus penis by divid- ing into the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the penis. The pudic artery is accompanied throughout its course by the vein of the same name. Within the pelvis, the pudic artery rests against the rectum internally, and the sacral plexus of nerves intervenes between it and the pyriformis muscle. Over the ischial spine, the artery is covered by the gluteus maximus muscle, and the pudic nerve lies to its inner side. In the ischio-rectal fossa, the artery is contained in the substance of the obtu- rator fascia, the dorsal nerve of the penis being above, and the perineal branch of the pudic nerve below it ; and between the layers of the triangular ligament, it is embedded, in company with the dorsal nerve of the penis, in the tendinous origin Of the constrictor urethrae muscle. Branches.—From the part of the artery within the pelvis small offsets proceed to the obturator internus, pyriformis, and coccygeus muscles. As the artery crosses the ischial spine it gives off branches to the adjacent part of the gluteus maximus, and other twigs which supply the external rotator muscles and anastomose with offsets of the sciatic artery. In the perineum the following larger branches arise :— (a) The inferior or external hcemorrhoidal artery, often represented by two or three separate branches, arises from the pudic artery as it enters the perineal space. Directed inwards through the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa towards the anus, it divides into branches which supply the super- ficial structures of the posterior part of the perineum, the sphincter and levator ani muscles, and anastomose with the other hemorrhoidal arteries as well as with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side. Small off- sets also turn round the border of the gluteus maximus and supply the overlying integument, while others pass forwards and communicate with the superficial perineal artery. (1) The superficial perineal artery (v) arises from the pudic at the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa. Crossing over or under the transversus perinei muscle, it runs forwards beneath the superficial perineal fascia, in company with the nerves of the same name, gives offsets to the sub- jacent muscles, and divides into long slender branches which supply the back of the scrotum and anastomose with the external pudic branches of the femoral artery. (c) The transverse perineal artery (vi) generally arises in common with the preceding, but it is sometimes a distinct branch of the pudic artery. Passing inwards towards the central point of the perineum, it supplies the parts between the anus and the bulb of the urethra, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side. (d) The artery of the lullb (v) arises from the pudic near the point where that vessel enters between the layers of the triangular ligament. It runs inwards between the fibres of the constrictor urethrae muscle, being placed usually about half an inch from the base of the triangular ligament, and penetrates the bulb to be distributed to the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum. It gives branches to Cowper’s gland, and to the membranous part of the urethra. Another smaller branch to the corpus spongiosum is frequently given off by the pudic artery near its bifurcation, or by the artery of the corpus cavernosum.