VEINS OF THE UTTER LIMB. 512 basilic vein of the arm, and extends, like the corresponding artery, from the lower border of the teres major muscle to the outer margin of the first rib. It is placed on the inner side of the axillary artery and has similar relations to the surrounding muscles. Lateral tributaries.—The axillary vein receives in its course the several veins corresponding to the branches of the axillary artery, viz., the two circumflex, subscapular, long thoracic, alar thoracic, acromio-thoracic (opening in common with the cephalic vein) and the superior thoracic veins ; at the lower border of the subscapularis muscle it is joined by one or both of the brachial venae comites, and near its termination by the cephalic vein. The subclavian vein is the continuation of the axillary, and extends from the outer margin of the first rib to the inner border of the anterior scalenus muscle, where it terminates by uniting with the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. It crosses over the first rib and behind the clavicle, being placed at a lower level and therefore pursuing a less arched course than the artery, from which it is separated by the anterior scalenus muscle and the phrenic nerve. The subclavian vein is joined, usually close to the outer border of the anterior scalenus, by the external jugular vein, and it has constantly a pair of valves placed immediately outside the entrance of the latter vessel (Struthers, op. cit., p. 244). The wall of the subclavian vein adheres closely to the fascial sheath by which it is invested, and this being intimately connected in front with the costo-coracoid membrane and the back of the clavicle (p. 196), the vessel becomes expanded when the shoulder is carried forwards. Hence care should be taken in operations about the root of the neck or the shoulder in order to avoid the danger of air being drawn into the circula- tion by movements of the limb. Varieties.—The subclavian vein is occasionally placed at a higher level than usual as it curves inwards, rising above the clavicle into the neck, and over- lapping the subclavian artery. It has also been seen in rare cases passing between the subclavius muscle and the clavicle (Luschka), lying with the arteiy behind the anterior scalenus, changing places with the artery, or, lastly, dividing into two parts, which were placed, one in front of, the other behind the anterior scalenus (Luschka). It often receives separately the anterior jugular, the supra- scapular or the transverse cervical vein ; occasionally the cephalic vein. Other unusual tributaries that have been met with are the brachial venae comites (W. Krause), and on the left side a bronchial vein (M. J. Weber). AZYGOS VEINS. The azygos veins are longitudinal vessels resting against the thoracic portion of the spinal column, and formed by the union of the veins cor- responding to the arteries of the intercostal spaces. In the lower part of the thorax the two veins of opposite sides are disposed symmetrically, but higher up the blood gathered from most of the veins of the left side is poured into the trunk on the right, which becomes enlarged and unsymmetrical, and has on that account received the name of large or right azygos, while the united vessels from the corresponding parts on the left side constitute the small or left azygos veins. The right or large azygos vein (vena azygos major) commences in the abdomen, generally by an anastomotic vessel (ascending lumbar vein) which connects together the several lumbar veins, and establishes a