MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 224 into the abductor or opponens pollicis muscles. The extensor primi intemodii is sometimes absent, being-, as it were, fused with the extensor ossis metacarpi, in other cases it is more or less united with the extensor secundi intemodii pollicis. An occasional variety, representing a muscle normally existing in the dog and many carnivora, is the presence of an additional extensor between the indicator and the extensor secundi intemodii pollicis, with a double tendon and insertion into both digits. The extensor indicis or indicator muscle arises from the outer division of the posterior surface of the ulna for a variable extent below the extensor secundi intemodii, and slightly from the interosseous membrane at its lower part. The tendon passes with the common extensor through a compartment of the annular ligament, comes in contact with the tendon from that muscle destined for the index finger, and unites with it to form the expansion already described. Fig. 171.—Transverse section op the right HAND BETWEEN THE CARPUS AND META- CARPUS. (A. T.) 4 a, b, c, d, e, articular surfaces of the trape- zium, trapezoid, magnum and unciform bones ; a', palmar ridge of the trapezium ; e', unciform process ; between a' and e', the cut edge of the annular ligament, sending a process towards tire trapezoid at 11, by which the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is enclosed in the groove of the trapezium ; 1, tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; 2, extensor primi intemodii; 3, extensor secundi intemodii; 4, extensor carpi radialis longior; 5, brevior; G, index finger tendon of extensor communis digitorum ; 6', remaining tendons ; 7, extensor indicis ; 8, extensor minimi digiti; 9, extensor carpi ulnaris ; 10, flexor carpi radialis; 11, flexor longus pollicis ; 12, the first on the ulnar side of the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum ; 13, the same of the flexor pro- fundus ; 14, median nerve ; 15, the palmar aponeurosis stretched across the annular ligament; 16, palmaris brevis; 17, short muscles of the thumb; 18, muscles of the little finger. Varieties.—This muscle is but rarely absent. Its tendon is frequently double, and one of the parts may pass to the middle finger, leading to the formation of an extensor medii digiti, which may occur also as a distinct muscle arising from the ulna or posterior ligament of the wrist-joint below the indicator. Less fre- quently an extensor brevis digitorum manus is present, arising from the back of the wrist-joint, or from the carpus, or from the bases of some of the metacarpal bones, and sending tendons to one, two, or three fingers. Intermediate forms between these two muscles are also met with. Nerves.-—The anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior receive branches directly from the musculo-spiral trunk ; the remaining muscles of this group are supplied by the posterior interosseous division of that nerve. Fig. 171. MUSCLES AND FASCL£E OP THE HAND. Fasciae.—The fascia of the dorsum of the hand, a thin layer composed mainly of transverse fibres, is prolonged downwards from the lower border of the annular ligament over the extensor tendons, and blends with these on the fingers. Deeper than the extensor tendons thin aponeuroses are stretched over the intermetacarpal spaces, being attached laterally to the bones, and covering the dorsal interosseous muscles to which they are firmly adherent.