MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 248 internal to the gluteal ridge, into the whole length of the linea aspera, and into the internal supracondylar line for about an inch. The posterior fibres, which arise from the ischial tuberosity, descend almost vertically, forming the thick inner border of the muscle, and terminate in a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the adductor tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur. Along the femoral attachment the insertion is interrupted by three or more tendinous arches through which pass the perforating arteries, and below the level of the inferior bifurcation of the linea aspera, between the two portions of the insertion of the muscle, an interval is left for the passage of the femoral vessels backwards into the popliteal space. Extending upwards from the opening for the femoral vessels, is an aponeurotic membrane which consists of transverse fibres passing from the surface of the vastus internus to the adductor magnus and adductor longus muscles. It becomes thinner as it ascends, and encloses a three- sided passage called Hunter's canal, which contains the femoral artery and vein, together with the internal saphenous nerve. Relations.—This muscle is in contact in front with the long and short adductors, the vastus internus, the obturator nerve, and the profunda artery, behind with the hamstring muscles, gluteus maximus, and great sciatic nerve, internally with the gracilis muscle, superiorly with the obturator externus and quadratus femoris muscles, and along the line of attachment to the femur it is pierced by the femoral and perforating arteries. Varieties.—The adductor muscles are so closely related that their varieties may be conveniently considered together. The pectineus is sometimes divided more or less completely into two parts, which receive their nerves from different sources, viz., the inner from the obturator, and the outer from the anterior crural. This division occurs naturally in many animals. The muscle has also been seen attached to the capsule of the hip-joint, or even inserted into it. The adductor longus may be double, or it may extend as far as the knee with its tendon of insertion inseparable from that of the adductor magnus. Its outer border may be continuous with, or receive a slip from, the adjacent edge of the pectineus. The adductor brevis is frequently found divided into two or three parts, or it may be incorporated with the adductor magnus. The adductor magnus varies in the de- gree of its segmentation. Its condylar part has been found quite distinct from the rest of the muscle. Its upper part, reaching down to about the middle of the linea aspera, is so frequently divided from the rest that it is looked upon by some anatomists as a special muscle, being called the adductor minimus (Henle, Gunther, Macalister). On the other hand, the muscle has been found with its upper part completely united to the quadratus femoris (Macalister). Nerves.—The adductor muscles as a whole are supplied by the obturator nerve, but the adductor magnus likewise receives a branch from the great sciatic, and the pectineus has regularly a branch from the anterior crural, whilst its offset from the obturator nerve is inconstant. Actions.—All of these muscles adduct the thigh. In addition to this action, the pectineus, adductor longus and adductor brevis are accessory flexors of the hip, while the strong part of the adductor magnus springing from the ischial tuberosity aids in extending that joint. The gracilis also flexes the knee and rotates the leg inwards. The adductors, acting with their opponents the gluteal muscles, balance the body upon the femur in walking-, and the adductor magnus supports the pelvis and steadies the hip-joint in standing. MUSCLES AND FASCI.S3 OF THE LEG. E Asciis.—The aponeurosis of the leg invests the muscles closely, but is not continued over the subcutaneous surfaces of the bones. It is thus intimately united with the periosteum over the head and the