OSSIFICATION OF THE TEMPORAL AND SPHENOID BONES. 71 given the following names, viz.: 1, Prootic, including most of the labyrinth and upper part of the petrous, together with part of the mastoid ; 2, Opisthotic, com- prehending mainly the lower part of the petrous, with the fenestra rotunda and half of the fenestra ovalis; and 3, Epiotic, corresponding to the lower part of the mastoid. More recently the mode of ossification of the periotic in man has been studied by A. J. Vrolik, who describes the petrous as being developed from four centres, which are placed around the labyrinth, and have coalesced by the end of the sixth month, while the mastoid part is formed from two independent nuclei, which unite with the petrous before the time of birth (Niederl. Arch. f. Zoologie, i. 291). At birth the petro-mastoid is separated from the squamosal by a thin plate of intervening cartilage, bony union taking place during the first year ; the mastoid portion also is quite flat, the glenoid fossa shallow, the articular eminence scarcely to be seen, and the tympanic ring and membrane are even with the outer surface of the bone. After birth the external auditory meatus is gradually formed by the outgrowth of the united squamous and petro-mastoid portions above and behind, and of the tympanic plate in front and below ; the latter is developed from the outer margin of the slender tympanic ring, commencing in the form of two small tubercles at the fore and hinder parts respectively ; these increase in size and meet in the floor of the meatus, enclosing a foramen which is gradually closed. The foramen is completed as a rule in the second year, and is seldom obliterated before five years of age. The part of the wall of the meatus which was occupied by the foramen is commonly thin, and frequently a small aperture persists through life. On the posterior surface of the petrous at birth is a considerable depression extending into the arch of the superior semicircular canal, and which represents the floccular fossa of the lower animals ; in the adult bone a vestige of this is always present as a small fissure above and outside the internal auditory meatus, between that and the aqueduct of the vestibule. The mastoid process is developed about the second year, but the air-cells are not formed till near puberty. The styloid process is formed by two small ossifications in cartilage : the tympanoliyal at the base, commencing before birth and speedily joining the bone, and the stylohyal commencing usually after birth, but remaining very small until the period of puberty; this only joins after adult age is reached, and often remains permanently separate (Flower, Brit. Ass. Rep. 1870). The sphenoid bone presents in infancy traces of a natural division into a pos- terior or postsphenoid part, to which the sella turcica and great wings belong, and an anterior or presphenoid part, to which belong the body in front of the olivary eminence and the small wings,—a division which is found in many animals complete and persistent through life. The first osseous nuclei of the postsphenoid division appear about the eighth week in the great wings (alisphenoids), between the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale, and spread thence outwards into the wing and downwards into the external pterygoid plate. About the same time also two granules appear in the postsphenoid part of the body (basisphenoid), placed side by side in the sella turcica ; these unite about the fourth month, and after their union two others appear, from which are formed the lingulse (basi- temporals), inside which are placed the carotid grooves. The internal pterygoid plates, corresponding to the pterygoid bones of animals, are ossified from distinct nuclei, which are deposited in membrane and appear in the fourth month ; they unite with the external pterygoid plates in the fifth or sixth month. The great wings are united to the body in the first year. In the presphenoid division the first pair of nuclei appear in the eighth or ninth week outside the optic foramina, and extend by their growth into the small ■wings (orbitosphenoids) : another pair of granules appear on the inner sides of the foramina, and the presphenoid portion of the body either results from the union of these, or is an independent growth. The presphenoid is united to the body of the postsphenoid in the seventh or eighth month. The line of union is indicated for some time by a hole filled with cartilage, round above, and opening inferiorly into a wide notch, which is recognisable for several years after birth. The body of the presphenoid is for a year or two broad and rounded inferiorly, hut becomes gradually narrower and more prominent: it is separated at first by a layer of fibro-cartilage from the sphenoidal spongy bones.