SACRAL PLEXUS. €36 where its terminal filaments are distributed, after forming communica- tions with the external superficial perineal nerve. (c) The femoral cutaneous branches are numerous, and arise from both sides of the nerve while it lies beneath the fascia : they supply the skin of the back of the thigh, the larger number passing to the inner side. The perforating cutaneous nerve (fig. 354, 10 ; fig. 350, 10) is a slender branch which arises from the fourth sacral nerve, and passes backwards through the great sacro-sciatic ligament ; it then turns up- wards round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and is distributed to the skin over the inner and lower part of that muscle.* TERMINAL BRANCHES. Pudic nerve.—The pudic nerve is a short plexiform trunk, which is derived from the lowest part of the sacral plexus, and distributes nerves to the perineum and external organs of generation. It arises from the third and fourth, sometimes also the second, sacral nerves, passes out of the pelvis between the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and then turns forwards over the ischial spine, being placed here on the inner side of the pudic vessels, to the small sacro-sciatic foramen. Having thus arrived at the hinder part of the ischio-rectal fossa, the trunk ends by dividing into the following three branches, viz., the inferior hamror- rhoidal nerve, the perineal nerve, and the dorsal nerve of the penis, or clitoris, according to the sex. («) The inferior hemorrhoidal nerve is sometimes derived separately from the sacral plexus ; it inclines inwards towards the anus and divides into numerous branches which supply the skill of the hinder part of the perineal space and the external sphincter muscle. The most anterior branches form communications with the inferior pudendal and superficial perineal nerves. (h) The perineal nerve is the largest of the three divisions of the pudic nerve. It runs forwards along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, being contained in a special sheath of the obturator fascia below the pudic vessels, and breaks up into superficial and deep branches. The superficial perineal nerves are two in number, external and internal. The external or posterior, which is the first to leave the perineal trunk, runs forwards along the outer side of the perineal space to the scrotum, and sometimes gives a branch to the adjacent part of the thigh. The internal or anterior branch is larger, and runs forwards nearer the middle line, dividing into long slender offsets which are distributed to the integu- ment of the scrotum. The two branches communicate freely together, and the external generally receives the connecting filaments from the inferior pudendal and inferior haemorrhoidal nerves. The superficial perineal and inferior pudendal nerves are sometimes named from their distribution long scrotal nerves. In the female, both the superficial perineal branches terminate in the external labium pudendi. The deep branches generally arise by a single trunk, and are distributed mainly to the muscles of the perineum. They supply the fore part of the * This nerve has been particularly described by Vcigt and Schwalbe. According to the latter author it is a branch of the pudic nerve, but I have generally found it arising in the manner stated in the text. (Gr.D.T.)