CAROTID AND CAVERNOUS PLEXUSES. 653 1. Ascending branch and cranial plexuses.—The ascending or carotid branch of the first cervical ganglion is soft in texture and of a reddish tint, seeming to be in some degree a prolongation of the ganglion itself. In its course to the skull, it is concealed by the internal carotid artery, with which it enters the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and it is then divided into two parts, which are placed one on the outer, the other on the inner side of the vessel. The external division distributes filaments to the internal carotid artery, receives one or two twigs from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal (p. 578), and, after communicating by means of other filaments with the internal division of the cord, forms the carotid plexus. The internal division, rather the smaller of the two, supplies filaments to the carotid artery, and goes to form the cavernous plexus. The terminal parts of these divisions of the cranial cord are prolonged on the trunk of the internal carotid, and extend to the cerebral and ophthalmic arteries, around which they form secondary plexuses, those on the cerebral arteries ascending to the pia mater. One minute plexus enters the eye-ball with the central artery of the retina. It was stated by Ribes (Mem. de la Societe Med. d'Emulation, tom. viii., p. fiOO) that the cranial prolongations of the sympathetic nerves of the two sides coalesce with one another on the anterior communicating artery,—a small ganglion or a plexus being formed at the point of junction ; but this connection, has not been satisfactorily made out by other observers. Carotid plexus.—The carotid plexus, situated on the outer side of the internal carotid artery at its second bend (reckoning from below), or between the second and third bends, joins the fifth and sixth cranial nerves, and gives many filaments to the vessel on which it lies. Branches.—(r/) The connection with the sixth nerve is established by means of one or two filaments of considerable size, which are supplied to* that nerve where it lies by the side of the internal carotid artery. (h) The filaments connected with the Gasserian ganglion of the fifth nerve proceed generally from the carotid plexus, but sometimes from the cavernous. (c) The large deep petrosal nerve passes forwards from the outer side of the artery to the posterior aperture of the Vidian canal, where it joins the large superficial petrosal from the facial to form the Vidian nerve, which is continued to the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 5G3). id) The small deep petrosal nerve passes from the carotid plexus backwards to the tympanic plexus (p. 578), and probably conveys sympathetic fibres to the latter. Cavernous plexus.—The cavernous plexus, named from its position in the sinus of the same name, is placed below and rather to the inner side of the highest turn of the internal carotid artery. Besides giving branches on the artery, it communicates with the third, the fourth, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth cranial nerves. Branches.—(a) The filament which joins the third nerve comes into connection with it close to the point of division of that nerve. (h) The branch to the fourth nerve, which may be derived from either the cavernous or the carotid plexus, joins the nerve where it lies in the wall of the cavernous sinus.