MUSCLES OF TILE UPPER LIMB. 208 osteum covering the subcutaneous parts of the bones, viz., the condyles of the humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna ; and it is strengthened in front and behind by tendinous fibres sent from the biceps and triceps muscles. Muscles.—The coraco-brachialis muscle, elongated in form, arises from the tip of the coracoid process of the scapula, between the pecto- ralis minor and the short head of the biceps, with which latter it is for some distance conjoined in a common tendon. The lower end of the muscle is inserted into the inner border of the humerus near its middle, on a linear impression of from one to two inches in length, between the origins of the triceps and the brachialis anticus. Higher up some of its fibres are frequently inserted into a fibrous band which is prolonged up- wards, forming an arch over the latissimus dorsi and teres major tendons, to be attached to the humerus close below the small tuberosity. Relations.—This muscle is usually pierced by the musculo-cutaneous nerve ; its outer border is in contact with the biceps muscle, and its inner with the brachial artery, by which it is crossed obliquely near its insertion. It lies in front of the tendons of the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and teres major, and is covered in great part by the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles. Varieties.—This muscle has been shown by various authors to be subject to con- siderable varieties, which seem to indicate, according to Wood, that it consists typically of three parts ; viz., 1, a superior short one rising from the coracoid pro- cess, or near it, and running over the subscapularis muscle, to be inserted close below the small tuberosity of the humerus ; 2, a middle part corresponding most nearly to that usually described in human anatomy, of intermediate size, and placed between the first and third ; 3, an inferior part, which is the longest and most superficially placed, and descends to the inner condyle, or near it, and in many instances is inserted into a supracondylar process. The middle division of the muscle is most constant in man ; but is generally accompanied by a part of the third ; the musculo-cutaneous nerve passing between them. The first and third constitute the most marked varieties in man, and all three are found in various forms and degrees of development in different animals. The internal brachial ligament of Struthers is a fibrous band connected with the inferior part of this muscle. (Wood, Joum. Anat. i. 45.) The biceps flexor cubiti muscle has two heads of origin : one of these, the internal or short head, arises conjointly with the coraco- brachialis from the coracoid process of the scapula by a tendon which is soon continued into muscle ; the other, the long head, arises from the scapula at the upper end of the glenoid cavity, wfithin the capsule of the shoulder-joint, by a rounded tendon which is continuous on each side with the glenoid ligament; and this tendon, passing over the head of the humerus, leaves the joint by the bicipital groove, gradually enlarging into the fleshy head as it descends. The two muscular heads meet, and becoming closely applied together form an elongated and thick belly, occupying the middle and lower part of the arm : a little above the bend of the elbow, the muscle suddenly becomes narrower, 'and is continued into the thick tendon of insertion. This tendon, slightly twisted upon itself as it descends, is inserted into the rough posterior portion of the tuberosity of the radius, gliding on the anterior smooth surface of that process by the intervention of a synovial bursa. From the inner side of the lower part of the muscle and tendon a strong flat aponeurotic band, called the semilunar fascia, passes downwards and inwards, and becomes blended with the deep fascia of the forearm over the muscles arising from the internal condyle.