9G BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. and articulates with, the semilunar bone. There are three surfaces ; the inferior, concavo-convex from without inwards, articulates with the unciform bone ; the anterior is distinguished by having a smooth circular facet on its inner half for articulation with the pisiform bone ; and the supero-posterior, presents at the base a small articular facet entering the wrist-joint, but is for the most part rough for the attachment of ligaments. The pyramidal articulates with three bones, viz., the semi- lunar, pisiform, and unciform. The pisiform bone lies on a plane anterior to the other bones of the carpus. Posteriorly it possesses an articular surface, which rests on the pyramidal bone. The mass of the bone is so inclined from this surface downwards and outwards, that the pisiform bone of one hand is distin- guishable from that of the other. The trapezium is the most external of the second row of carpal bones. It presents a rhombic form when seen in its dorsal or palmar aspect, but with the lower angle much produced and truncated. Its anterior surface is marked by a vertical groove traversed by the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle, and external to the groove by a ridge, one of the four prominences which 'give attachment to the anterior annular ligament. Of the internal sides of the rhomb, the superior articulates with the scaphoid and the inferior with the trapezoid ; while a small facet on the prominent lower angle is for the second metacarpal bone. Of the external sides the superior is free, and the inferior presents a smooth surface, convex from behind forwards, and concave from without inwards, which articulates with the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and is separated by a small interval from the surface for the second metacarpal bone. The trapezium articulates with four bones, viz., the scaphoid, trapezoid, and first and second metacarpals. The trapezoid bone is considerably smaller than the trapezium. Its longest diameter is from before backwards. Its posterior free surface is much larger than the anterior. The external inferior angle of the anterior surface is distinguished by being prolonged a little backwards between the articular surfaces for the trapezium and second metacarpal bone. The superior surface articulates with the scaphoid ; the external with the trapezium ; the internal with the os magnum; and the inferior by a large surface convex from side to side with the second metacarpal bone. The trapezoid articulates with four bones, viz., the scaphoid, trapezium, os magnum, and second metacarpal bone. The os magnum is the largest of the carpal bones. In form it is elongated vertically, rectangular interiorly, rounded superiorly. The upper extremity or head articulates above with the semilunar bone by a convex surface, extending further down behind than in front, and pro- longed on the outer side for the scaphoid. A neck is formed beneath by depressions on the anterior and posterior surfaces. The anterior surface of the bone is much narrower than the posterior. The posterior surface projects dowmwards at its internal inferior angle. On the outer side beneath the surface for the scaphoid is a short surface for the trapezoid bone ; and on the inner side is a vertically elongated surface which articulates with the unciform bone. Interiorly this bone articulates by three distinct surfaces, of which the middle is much the largest, with the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones. The os magnum articulates with seven bones, viz., the scaphoid, semilunar, trapezoid, unciform, and second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones.