SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. 401 muscle and its sheath ; afterwards, entering the muscle, the artery terminates in its substance, and anastomoses with the epigastric artery from the external iliac. It supplies branches to the broad muscles of the belly, to the skin, and to the diaphragm ; one offset runs forwards upon the front of the ensiform process, and anastomoses with that of the opposite side ; and small twigs pass backwards into the falciform liga- ment of the liver and form communications with the hepatic artery. Varieties.—The internal mammary artery is sometimes found connected at its origin with the thyroid axis, or with one or both of the scapular arteries—these being detached from the thyroid. It occasionally springs from the second or third part of the subclavian artery, the latter being the more frequent position of the two. In very rare instances it has been found arising from the axillary, the innominate, or the aorta. The trunk of the artery has been seen to cross the front of the fifth (Hyrtl) or sixth (G. D. T.) costal cartilage. An unusual branch,' of considerable size, occasionally comes off from the upper part of this artery, and passes downwards and outwards, crossing several of the ribs, on their inner surface, about mid-way between the spine and sternum. The internal mammary artery may likewise furnish a bronchial branch. 4. Superior intercostal artery (iv).—This artery arises from the back part of the subclavian, generally behind the anterior scalenus on the right side, and immediately internal to that muscle on the left. Taking its course backwards and at first slightly upwards, it speedily gives off the deep cer vical branch, and then bends downwards in front of the neck of the first rib, to be distributed in the first and second inter- costal spaces. On the neck of the first rib, the artery is situated between the first thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic internally and the anterior primary division of the first dorsal nerve externally. The branches to the first and second intercostal spaces are distributed in the same way as the intercostal arteries derived from the aorta (p. 431), and that in the second space is frequently joined by an offset from the first aortic intercostal. Varieties.—The superior intercostal artery has been found, in a few instances, to proceed from the vertebral artery or from the thyroid axis. It has also been observed to descend between the necks of one or two ribs and the transverse pro- cesses of the corresponding dorsal vertebrae ; and in one case, after arising from the vertebral artery, it passed in addition through the foramen in the transverse pro- cess of the last cervical vertebra (R. Quain, pi. 22, fig. 5). This artery is sometimes, though very rarely, wanting. On the other hand it may be larger than usual, and supply three or even four spaces. It has been seen to furnish a lateral branch descending on the inner surface of the ribs, similar to that occasionally derived from the internal mammary artery (Blandin, “ Anat. d. Regions,” 2nd Ed., 250). The deep cervical artery (fig. 243, 6), often described as a separate branch of the subclavian, arises in most cases from the superior inter- costal. Resembling the posterior branch, of an aortic intercostal artery, it passes backwards in the interval between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib, to reach the posterior aspect of the neck, where it ascends under cover of the complexus muscle, and resting upon the semispinalis colli, to the level of the axis. Its branches supply the surrounding muscles, and anastomose with offsets of the vertebral, the cervical branch of the occipital, and the ascending cervical arteries. Varieties.—The deep cervical artery sometimes arises separately from the sub- clavian ; more rarely from the posterior scapular. It occasionally passes back between the sixth and seventh cervical vertebras, and sometimes between the VOL. i. D n