214 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. The palmaris longus, the smallest muscle of this group, is placed between the flexores carpi radialis and ulnaris, resting on the flexor sub. limis : it arises from the inner condyle, the fascia and the intermuscular septa, forming a small muscular belly, which soon ends in a long slender tendon, inserted into the palmar fascia near the middle of the wrist, and sometimes sending a slip to the short muscles of the thumb. Fig. 165. Fig. 165.—Superficial muscles of the forearm AND HAND, SEEN FROM THE FRONT. (A. T.) A 3, biceps ; 3', its tendon of insertion ; 3", its aponeu- rotic slip ; 4, brachial is anticus ; 4', its inner and lower portion ; 5', inner bead of the triceps ; 6, pronator radii teres ; 7, flexor carpi radialis ; 8, palmaris longus, passing at 8' into the palmar aponeurosis; 9, flexor carpi ulnaris; 10, 10, supinator longus; between 10 and 3, + , supinator brevis; 11, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; 12, extensor primi internodii ; 13, lower part of the flexor sublimis digitorum ; 14, flexor longus pol- licis ; 15, small part of the flexor profundus digitorum ; 16, palmaris brevis, lying on the muscles of the little finger ; 17, abductor pollicis. Varieties.—This is probably the most variable muscle in the body. It is wanting to the extent of about ten per cent, of the bodies examined. It is subject to many variations of form ; c.g., the fleshy fibres may occupy the middle of the muscle, which, then commences and ends by an elongated tendon ; or the muscular structure may be placed towards the lower end, the upper part being tendinous ; or the whole muscle may be reduced to a mere tendinous band. It is sometimes represented by a slip from the flexor carpi ulnaris or flexor sublimis digitorum. Occasionally there are two long palmar muscles, one having the ordinary shape, while the other has one of the forms above referred to. An additional origin has been seen from the coronoid process, or from the radius. Among the varieties that have been observed in its mode of termination are : insertion, partial or complete, into the fascia of the forearm, into the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the pisiform bone, into the scaphoid, and into the muscles of the little finger. The flexor carpi ulnaris, the innermost muscle of the superficial group, arises by two heads, the one of which forms the hindmost part of the common tendon from the inner condyle of the humerus, the other is attached to the inner side of the olecranon, and to the posterior border of the ulna for two thirds of its length, by an aponeurosis which is insepar- ably connected with the investing aponeurosis of the limb. The muscular fibres, passing downwards and forwards from this long line of origin, terminate in a tendon which descends along the anterior margin of the muscle, and is inserted into the pisiform bone: this tendon is prolonged, by means of ligamentous structures, to the fifth metacarpal and unciform bones, as well as to the annular ligament.