VEINS OF THE PORTAL SYSTEM. 526 and the splenic veins. It is also joined by the pyloric and coronary veins from the stomach, and sometimes by the cystic vein from the gall-bladder; but the latter vessel more frequently enters its right branch. The superior mesenteric vein lies to the right side and somewhat in front of the artery of the same name. The distribution of its branches corresponds with that of the superior mesenteric artery, and it returns the blood from the several parts supplied by that vessel, viz., from the small intestine, and from the ascending and transverse parts of the colon. The trunk, formed by the union of its several branches, inclines up- wards and to the right side, passing in front of the third part of the duodenum and behind the pancreas, where it joins with the splenic vein to form the vena portte. The superior mesenteric vein is also joined, close to its termination, by the right gastro-epiploic vein from the great curvature of the stomach. The branches of the inferior mesenteric vein correspond with the ramifications of the artery of the same name. They commence at the lower part of the rectum in the htemorrhoidal plexus, and unite into a single vessel near the sigmoid flexure of the colon. From this point the vein proceeds upwards beneath the peritoneum, lying to the left of the aorta, and then passing behind the pancreas, it inclines to the right to terminate in the angle formed by the junction of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins, or in the adjacent part of either of these vessels. The splenic vein, a vessel of large size, commences by five or six branches which issue separately from the hilus of the spleen, and soon join to form a single vessel. It is directed from left to right beneath the pancreas, in company with the splenic artery, below which it is placed. On reaching the front of the inferior vena cava it joins the superior mesenteric vein, nearly at a right angle. It receives gastric branches (vasa brevia) from the left extremity of the stomach, the left gastro-epiploic vein, somq pancreatic branches, and frequently the inferior mesenteric vein. The pyloric vein is a small vessel which accompanies the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery on the small curvature of the stomach, and opens into the lower end of the portal vein. It is sometimes represented by two or three smaller branches. The coronary vein of the stomach is of considerable size, and runs with the artery of the same name along the small curvature of the stomach to the cardiac orifice, where it receives branches from the oesophagus, and then, turning to the right, passes across the front of the spine to join the portal vein immediately above the foregoing (W. J. Walsham, Journ. Anat., xiv., 399). The name of accessory portal veins has been given by Sappey to a number of small vessels which collect blood from the areolar tissue and peritoneal folds around the liver, and partly open into branches of the portal vein, partly pene- trate directly into the substance of the liver; through anastomoses formed by the radicles of these vessels the portal vein is put into direct communication with the phrenic and azygos veins. There are, moreover, constantly one or more small veins {parumbilical—Schiff) which descend from the left division of the portal vein, along the round ligament of the liver, towards the umbilicus, and form connections with the epigastric veins; and these vessels sometimes become much enlarged, setting up a more or less complete collateral circulation, in