TARSAL ARTICULATIONS. 179 Fig. 150. Fig. 150.—Ligaments of the foot, seen fkom placed upon the internal cuneiform bone ; from 6 and the navicular bone. The following are the principal parts requiring description. Astragalo-calcaneal ligaments.—The interosseous ligament (fig. 153,4), broad and strong, passes downwards from the groove between the anterior and posterior articular surfaces of the astragalus to the similar groove between the corresponding articular surfaces of the calcaneum. A membranous 'posterior ligament connects the posterior border of the astra- galus with the calcaneum ; its fibres are oblique and very short. There is also an inconstant external ligament, consisting of a slight fasciculus of fibres, which descends from the outer surface of the astragalus to the outer side of the calcaneum, parallel with the middle division of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. It may be further observed, that those portions of the lateral ligaments of the ankle-joint which pass down over the astragalus to the os calcis assist in uniting these two bones. below. (A. T.) J 1 and 2, portions of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 3, long plantar ligament; 3', short plantar ligament ; 4, inferior calcaneonavicular ligament; 5, three naviculo-cuneiform ligaments ; 6, is placed upon the external cuneiform bone, towards which is seen coming from behind a cubo-cuneiform ligament ; 7, is 7, are seen passing forwards the plantar cuneo-meta- :! tarsal ligaments ; x , part of the first dorsal cuneo- I metatarsal ligament ; 8, plantar band from cuboid to fifth metatarsal bone ; 9, fibres prolonged from the I! long plantar ligament, forming the sheath of the pero- j neus longus tendon ; 10, 10, between these figures the j plantar intermetatarsal ligaments ; 11, 11, transverse metatarsal ligament; 12, intersesamoid ligament; 13, 13, between these figures are seen the five pairs of internal and external lateral metatarso-phalangeal liga- ments ; 14, 14, between these figures are seen the five pairs of internal and external lateral iDterpha- langeal ligaments of the first series ; those of the second series have no figure placed to mark them ; 15, plantar ligament of the interphalangeal articulation of the great toe. Calcaneo-navieular ligaments.— The calcaneum and navicular bones are not in contact, but they are connected by two ligaments. The inferior or plantar ligament, the larger of the two, is a broad band i which passes forwards and inwards from the fore part of the susten- taculum tali to the inferior surface of the navicular bone. It is in contact inferiorly with the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, while superiorly it forms the floor of the articular cavity which receives the head of the astragalus, and is lined by synovial membrane. The external, dorsal, or interosseous ligament (fig. 152, 8) forms the external boundary of the cavity just mentioned, and lies deeply at the anterior part of the fossa (sinus pedis), between the astragalus and os calcis. Its fibres, very short, j are directed from behind forwards and inwards between the contiguous extremities of the bones. They are attached posteriorly to a ridge of the I os calcis that separates the articular surfaces for the astragalus and cuboid, and anteriorly to the outer side of the navicular bone.