332 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. The linea alba is a -white fibrous structure extending perpendicularly in the middle line from the ensiform process to the pubis. This tendin- ous band is formed by the union of the aponeuroses of the two oblique and the transverse muscles, the tendinous fibres being continued in a decussating manner from one side to the other. Some longitudinal fibres are distinguishable towards its lower end. It is broader superiorly than interiorly, and a little below the middle it is widened out into a circular flat space, in the centre of which is situated the cicatrix of the umbilicus. The linea semilunaris is a curved linear depression on each side of the front of the abdomen, situated along the outer border of the rectus muscle, and appearing as a white line on the surface of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. It corresponds to a narrow portion of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, between its division to form the sheath of the rectus internally, and the termination of the fleshy fibres of the muscle externally. The linece transverscc are cross lines, corre- sponding to, and produced by, the tendinous intersections of the rectus. The qiia&ratus lumborum is an irregularly quadrilateral muscle, somewhat broader below than above, placed between the last rib and the pelvis, close to the vertebral column. It arises below by fleshy and tendinous fibres from the ilio-lumbar ligament and from the iliac crest for about two inches, behind and external to the attachment of that ligament, and on the inner side from the transverse processes of two, three or four lumbar vertebrae, by tendinous and fleshy slips, the fibres of which ascend on the anterior surface of the muscle. It is inserted into the lower border of the last rib for about half its length, and into the transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertebrae, by tendinous slips placed behind the slips arising from those processes. Relations.—The quadratus lumborum is contained in a sheath formed by the anterior and middle layers of the lumbar fascia. Its anterior surface is over- lapped by the psoas, and upon it rests the kidney, while the ascending or de- scending colon lies in front of its outer border. The inner border is intimately connected with the lateral intertransverse muscles. Varieties.—The number of the points of insertion of this muscle to the ver- tebra, and the extent of its connection with the last rib, vary in different instances. It is sometimes attached to the body or transverse process of the last dorsal vertebra. Nerves.—The abdominal muscles are supplied generally by the lower inter- costal nerves. The internal oblique and transversalis receive also branches from the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, and the cremaster is supplied by the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve. The quadratus lumborum receives small branches from the last dorsal and the upper lumbar nerves. Actions.—The abdominal muscles not only form a great part of the wall to enclose and support the abdominal viscera, but by their contraction are capable of acting successively on those viscera, on the thorax, and on the vertebral column. When the pelvis and thorax are fixed, the abdominal muscles constrict the cavity and compress the viscera, particularly if the diaphragm be fixed at the same time by the closure of the glottis, as occurs in vomiting and in the expulsion of the foetus, the fasces, and the urine. If the vertebral column be fixed, these muscles raise the diaphragm by pressing on the abdominal viscera, draw down the ribs, and contract the base of the thorax, and so contribute to expiration ; but if the vertebral column be not fixed, the thorax will be bent directly forwards, when the muscles of both sides act, or inclined laterally when they act on one side only, or rotated when the external oblique of one side and the opposite internal oblique act in combination.