MALAR BONE. 53 crest, while from its lower end a point projects downwards between the incisor foramina. The inferior border articulates with the nasal crest of the maxillary and palate bones. The posterior border, thin, smooth, and unattached, separates the posterior nares. THE MALAR BONE. The malar bone forms the most prominent part of the cheek, and separates the orbit from the temporal fossa. It is quadrangular in shape, with the angles directed vertically and horizontally. The outer surface is convex and presents the orifice of the malar canal; the inner surface is concave and looks into the temporal and zygomatic fossae. The upper angle, frontal process, is the most prominent, and is serrated at the extremity for articulation with the external angular process of the frontal bone. The border behind this, temporal, is sigmoid and continuous with the upper edge of the zygoma. The posterior angle, temporal process, is serrated for articulation with the extremity of the zygoma, and the postero-inferior border, masseteric, thick and rough, completes the lower edge of the cygomatic arch. The antero-inferior border, maxillary, together with a rough triangular part of the inner surface, articulates with the malar process of the superior maxilla. The remaining border, orbital, is strongly excavated, smooth and rounded, and forms a great part of the orbital margin; from this the orbital process projects backwards and inwards, a triangular, curved plate, forming the fore part of the outer wall of the orbit and articulating by Fig. 43.—Right malar bone. (A. T.) § Fig. 43. A, from the outside ; B, from the inside. 1, frontal process ; 2, temporal process; 3, anterior angle ; 4, inferior angle ; from 1 to 2, temporal border; from 1 to 3, orbital border ; from 1 to 8, edge of articu- lation with the frontal and sphenoid bones ; at 8, the notch terminating the spheno-maxillary fissure ; from 2 to 4, the masseteric border ; between 8, 3, and 4, the triangular serrated surface for articulation with the supjerior maxillary bone ; 5, placed below external orifice of malar canal; 6, internal surface ; 7, orbital surface. its sharp edge with the great wing of the sphenoid ; between the sphenoidal and maxil- lary articulations there is frequently a small free margin which closes the anterior extre- mity of the spheno-maxillary fissure. On the orbital surface of this process are seen two grooves leading to small canals, the temporal, opening on the temporal surface, and the malar leading to the facial surface of the bone; they transmit the two divisions of the temporo-malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Varieties. The malar bone is sometimes divided by a horizontal suture into an upper larger and a lower smaller part. The small canals are subject to great variation; either may be double, or one may fail entirely. In the numerous cases in which the malar bone does not enter into the formation of the spheno- maxillary fissure, it is excluded either by the articulation of the great wing of the sphenoid with the superior maxilla, or by a small "Wormian bone.