504 CRANIAL NERVES. The large superficial petrosal nerve, entering the cranium on the outer side of the carotid artery and beneath the Gasserian ganglion, is directed backwards in a groove on the petrous portion of the temporal bone to the hiatus Fallopii, and is thus conducted to the aqueductus Fallopii, where it joins the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. The large deep petrosal nerve, shorter than the other, is of a reddish colour and softer texture : it is directed backwards, and on the outer side of the carotid artery ends in the filaments of the sympathetic surrounding that vessel. In accordance with the view taken of the ganglia connected with the fifth nerve (p. 557), the superficial and deep petrosal parts of the Vidian nerve may be regarded as the motor and sympathetic roots respectively of the spheno-palatiue ganglion, the spheno-palatine nerves constituting its sensory root. The pharyngeal nerve is inconsiderable in size, and, instead of emanat- ing directly from the ganglion, is frequently derived altogether from the Vidian. This branch, when a separate nerve, springs from the back of the ganglion, enters the pterygo-palatine canal with an artery, and is lost in the lining membrane of the pharynx behind the Eustachian tube. Summary.—The superior maxillary nerve, with Meckel’s ganglion, supplies the integument above and over the malar bone, and that of the lower eyelid, the ride of the nose, and the upper lip ; the upper teeth ; the lining membrane of the nose ; the membrane of the upper part of the pharynx, of the antrum of Highmore, and of the posterior ethmoidal cells; the soft palate, tonsil, and uvula, and the glandular and mucous structures of the roof of the mouth. III.—INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The lower maxillary nerve, the third and largest division of the fifth, is made up of two portions of unequal size, the larger being derived from the Gasserian ganglion, and the smaller being the slender motor root of the fifth nerve. These two parts leave the skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid bone, and unite immediately after their exit. Two or three lines below the base of the skull, and under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, the nerve separates into two primary divisions, one of which is higher in position and smaller than the other. The small, anterior, or upper portion receives the greater part of the fibres of the motor root, and breaks up into temporal, masseteric, external pterygoid, and buccal branches, of which the last alone is a sensory nerve. The large, posterior, or lower portion is chiefly sensory, and divides into auriculo-temporal, lingual or gustatory, and inferior dental nerves ; it likewise supplies through the last-mentioned branch the mylo-hyoid muscle and the anterior belly of the digastric. The branch to the internal pterygoid muscle, with which also are connected those proceed- ing from the otic ganglion to the tensors of the palate and tympanum, is sometimes counted as a part of the larger division, but is more correctly regarded as arising from the undivided trunk. The short trunk of the nerve also gives off, as it issues from the foramen ovale, a slender recurrent branch (Arnold), which passes back- wards into the skull through the foramen spinosum with the middle meningeal artery, and divides like that vessel into two branches. The anterior of these sends its filaments into the great wing of the sphenoid