THE MUSCLES IN GENERAL. 187 bones or hard parts; and tendinous bands frequently run to a consider- able length either on the surface of a muscle or between its fibres. There is indeed great variety in the relation of the muscular and tendinous portions, but few muscles are entirely destitute of some tendinous element in their composition. Farther, blood-vessels are largely distributed in the substance of a muscle, carrying the materials necessary for its nourishment and chemico-vital changes, and there are also lymphatic vessels, at least in the perimysium and the tendons. Nerves ramify through every muscle, and by means of these the muscular contractions are called forth and a low degree of sensibility is conferred upon the muscular substance. The muscles vary much in their individual forms. Some are broad and thin, others are more or less elongated straps, and others are cylin- drical or fusiform masses of various thickness; hence some of the various names applied to them, such as long and short, square, round, rhomboid, &c. Not unfrequently two or more muscular parts run into one, as in the bicipital, tricipital, or quadricipital forms. In other instances muscles, beginning as single masses, become divided at their remote ends into two or more muscular or tendinous slips. A division of a muscle in its length into two parts by an intermediate tendon gives the form called digastric or biventral, and there are some muscles in which a greater number of parts arc thus separated by what have been called tendinous inscriptions. In the description of the muscles it is customary to state the attach- ments of their opposite ends under the names of origin and insertion; the first term being usually applied to the more fixed, or in the case of the limbs the proximal extremity, and the second to the more moveable or remote attachment; but it is to be observed, that it is often difficult to lay down a rule for the correct use of these terms, and that in the great majority of instances it is of importance to consider the action of a muscle as it may affect the motions of the parts attached not to one only but to both of its extremities. The study of the actions of the muscles either singly or in groups, though strictly a physiological subject, cannot be separated from their anatomical description. With respect to this the following general principles ought to be kept in view. 1st. That the force exerted by any muscle during its contraction is in proportion to the number of muscu- lar elements or fibres composing the muscle. 2nd. That the extent of motion, in so far as it merely depends on the shortening of the fibres of the muscle, is in proportion to the length of the fibres. And 3rd. That the direction of the force produced by a contracting muscle is in the line of the axis of the whole muscle if it run straight between its opposite points of attachment, but in the fine of the portion attached to the moving part if the muscle or its tendon be bent in its course. In most instances of such deflection from the straight course the muscles or their tendons run in loops or in grooves somewhat after the manner of a pulley. The loops are either fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous. In the pulley-like dis- position of tendons running over bones, there are frequently fibrous or cartilaginous or bony nodules developed at the place of angular bending of the tendons. The name sesamoid, originally given to the small bones developed in some of the digital tendons, has been applied generally to all similar intratendinous structures. It is further to be observed that the direction in which the muscular