6 INTRODUCTION. transverse direction perpendicular to that plane. The words anterior and posterior, superior and inferior, and several others indicating position, are employed in human anatomy strictly with reference to the erect posture of the body. But now that the more extended study of comparative anatomy and embryonic development is largely applied to the elucidation of the human structure, it is very desirable that descriptive terms should be sought which may without ambiguity indicate position and relation in the organism at once in man and animals. Such terms as dorsal and ventral, neural and visceral, cephalic and caudal, central and peripheral, proximal and distal, axial and appendicular, preaxial and postaxial, are of this kind, and ought, whenever this may be done consistently with sufficient clearness of description, to take the place of those which are only applicable to the peculiar attitude of the human body, so as to bring the language of human and comparative anatomy as much as possible into conformity. In many instances, also, precision may be obtained by reference to certain fixed relations of parts, such as the vcrtehral and sternal aspects, the radial and ulnar, and the filial and fibular borders, the flexor and extensor surfaces of the limbs, and similarly in other parts of the body. Arrangement.—The following subdivision of the subject and order of treatment will be adopted in this work, viz.:— In the First Volume. 1. Osteology, the Bones. 2. Arthrology, the Articulations. 3. Myology, the Voluntary Muscles, with which will be combined the Fascia; and Aponeuroses. 4. Angeiology, the Distribution of the Blood-vessels and Lym- phatics. 5. Neurology, the Distribution of the Nerves. 6. Superficial Anatomy and Topographical Anatomy of some regions. In the Second Volume. 7. Histology or General Anatomy. 8. Splanchnology, the Viscera, including— a. The Brain and Spinal Cord. 1). The Organs of the Senses. c. The Heart. cl. The Lungs and Organs of Respiration. e. The Organs of Digestion with the Accessory Glands. f. The Urinary Organs. rj. The Organs of Reproduction. 9. Embryology or Development.