623 GEXITO-CEURAL XERYE. (l) The hypogastric or abdominal branch passes on between the trans- versalis and internal oblique muscles, to both of which it supplies twigs, and is connected with the ilio-inguinal nerve near the iliac crest. It then perforates the internal oblique muscle, and, piercing the aponeurosis of the external oblique a little above the external abdominal ring, is distributed to the skin of the abdomen above the pubis. The iliac branch of this nerve varies in size inversely with the lateral cutaneous branch of the twelfth dorsal, and it is sometimes altogether wanting. The hypogastric branch is not unfrequ.en.tly joined with the last dorsal nerve between the muscles, near the crest of the ilium. The ilio-inguinal nerve, smaller than the preceding, supplies the integument of the groin. Descending obliquely outwards over the quadratics lumborum, it crosses the fibres of the iliacus muscle, being placed lower down than the ilio-hypogastric : it then perforates the transverse muscle farther forwards than the ilio-hypogastric, and com- municates with that nerve between the abdominal muscles. Then piercing the internal oblique muscle, it descends in the inguinal canal, and emerging at the external abdominal ring, is distributed to the skin of the inner part of the groin, as well as to that upon the scrotum and penis in the male, or the labium pudendi in the female, communicating with the inferior pudendal nerve. In its progress this nerve furnishes branches to the internal oblique, transversalis, and pyramidalis (Ellis) muscles. Varieties.—The ilio-inguinal nerve occasionally arises from the loop connect- ing the first and second lumbar nerves. It is sometimes small, and ends near the iliac crest by joining the ilio-hypogastric nerve : in which case the latter gives off an inguinal branch having a similar course and distribution to the ilio-inguinal nerve, the place of which it supplies. Genito-crural nerve.—The genito-crural nerve belongs partly to the external genital organs and partly to the thigh. It is derived chiefly from the second lumbar nerve, but receives also a few fibres from the connecting cord between that and the first nerve. The nerve descends obliquely through the psoas muscle, and afterwards on the anterior sur- face of the muscle, towards Poupart’s ligament, dividing at a variable height into an internal or genital, and an external or crural branch. It often bifurcates close to its origin from the plexus, in which case its two branches perforate the psoas muscle in different places. (a) The genital branch (external spermatic, Schmidt) lies upon or near the external [iliac artery, and sends a filament along that vessel; then perforating the transversalis fascia (or passing through the deep abdominal ring) it traverses the inguinal canal with the spermatic cord, and is lost upon the cremaster muscle. In the female it accompanies the round ligament of the uterus. (b) The crural branch (lumbo-inguinal nerve, Schmidt) descends upon the psoas muscle beneath Poupart’s ligament into the thigh. Immediately below that ligament, and at the outer side of the femoral artery, it pierces the fascia lata, and supplies the skin on the upper part of the thigh, communicating with the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve. While it is passing beneath Poupart’s ligament, some filaments are prolonged from this nerve on the femoral artery.