351 THE AORTA. lobe of the right lung. The two left pulmonary veins pass in front of the descending aorta to reach the auricle. The distribution of the Varieties.—The two veins of one side, more often the left, may unite into a common trunk before entering the auricle. There is frequently a third smaller vein on the right side, coming from the middle lobe of the lung. Other supernumerary veins are of rare occurrence. The upper pulmonary vein of the right side has been seen opening into the superior vena cava (Meckel, Gegenbaur, Bardeleben) ; that of the left side into the left innominate vein (Bachhammer). Fig. 226,—The heart and great VESSELS, FROM BEHIND. (R. Quain.) I 1, Right, 2, left ventricle ; 3, right pulmonary artery near the division of the main trunk ; 3', branches of the right pulmonary artery in the root of the right lung; 3", the same of the left; 4'. arch of the aorta ; 4", descending thoracic aorta; 5, right auricle; 6, is placed on the division between the right and left auricles ; 7, superior vena cava, being joined by the large azygos vein ; 7', left innominate vein ; 8, inferior vena cava ; 9, one of the hepatic veins ; 10, upper, 11, middle (addi- tional), and 12, lower right pul- monary vein ; 13, upper, and 14, lower left pulmonary vein ; +, +, branches of coronary arteries. pulmonary capillaries is ex- clusively to the membrane lining the air-cells of the lungs. Fig. 226, SYSTEMIC ARTERIES. THE AORTA. The aorta, the main trunk of the systemic arteries, is at its com- mencement generally a little smaller than the pulmonary artery, hut in old persons it becomes rather larger than that vessel (Schiele-Wiegandt, loc. cit.). Springing from the left ventricle of the heart, it arches over the root of the left lung, descends along the vertebral column, and, after passing through the diaphragm into the abdominal cavity, ends opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, by dividing into the right and left common iliac arteries. In this course the aorta forms a continuous single trunk, which gradually diminishes in size from its commencement to its termi- nation (from 28 to 17 mm.), and gives off larger or smaller branches at various points. Different parts of the vessel have received particular names, derived from their position or direction. The short curved part, which reaches from the ventricle of the heart to the lower border of the fifth dorsal vertebra, is named thearch; the straight part, which extends from that vertebra to the diaphragm, is the descending thoracic aorta; and the remainder of the vessel, down to its bifurcation, is the abdominal aorta.