433 ABDOMINAL AORTA. the corresponding nerve ; and, having famished an offset to the spinal canal, reaches the muscles of the back, and divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch is directed towards the spinous processes, on or through the multifidus spinae, and ramifies in the muscles and the skin. The external branch turns outwards under the longissimus dorsi, and is distributed between that muscle and the ilio-costalis ; some twigs reach the superficial muscles and the integuments. The spinal branch is distributed partly to the cord and its membranes, and partly to the bones, in the same manner as the spinal branches of the lumbar arteries (p. 447). (£) The collateral intercostal branch, long and slender, arises near the angle of the upper rib of the space, inclines downwards, and is continued along'the border of the lower rib, to anastomose in front with an anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary artery. There are thus in each intercostal space two terminal branches of the intercostal artery communicating with the branches of the internal mammary. Both the main trunk and the collateral branch give offsets to the intercostal muscles and ribs, and small twigs which anastomose beneath the pleura with one another and with branches of the internal mammary and bronchial arteries (see p. 400). Other branches supply the muscles covering the thorax and anastomose with the thoracic branches of the axillary artery, and one accompanies the lateral cutaneous branch of the intercostal nerve to the skin. From the arteries in the third, fourth, and fifth spaces branches are sent to the mammary gland in the female. Varieties.—The number of tranks by which the intercostal arteries arise is subject to much variation : two or even three arteries of the same side, especially the upper ones, sometimes arise by a single stem. One or two of these vessels may be absent on one side, the corresjwnding spaces being- supplied by branches from the neighbouring intercostal arteries. ABDOMINAL AORTA. The aorta, after having passed the diaphragm, is thus named. It commences on the front of the last dorsal vertebra, and terminates below by dividing into the two common iliac arteries. The bifurcation usually takes place about half-way down the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, a little to the left of the middle line ; a point which is nearly on a level with a line drawn from the highest part of one iliac crest to the other, and which corresponds to a spot on the front of the abdomen, slightly below and to the left side of the umbilicus. The anterior surface of the abdominal aorta is successively in apposi- tion with the pancreas and the splenic vein, the left renal vein, the third portion of the duodenum, and the peritoneum. The vena cava lies along its right side, the right crus of the diaphragm being inter- posed at the upper part; close to the same side are the thoracic duct and the azygos vein, which are placed between the aorta and the crus of the diaphragm. The aorta is also covered in front by the solar and aortic plexuses of the sympathetic uerve, by numerous lymphatic vessels and glands, and by a layer of dense areolar tissue. Branches.—The abdominal aorta gives numerous branches, which may be divided into two sets, viz., those which supply the viscera, and those which are distributed to the walls of the abdomen. The former consists of the coeliac artery, the superior mesenteric, the inferior VOL. I. F F