150 ARTICULATIONS OF THE HEAD. no immediate connection with the joint, and by some anatomists is not recognised as a ligament. The iiiterartieular fibro-cartilage is a thin plate placed between the articular surfaces of the bones. It is of an oval form, broadest Fig. 126. Fig. 126.—A portion op the skull and LOWER JAW WITH HALF THU HYOID BONE, SEEN FROM THE INSIDE. (A.T.) £ The numbers are the same as in Fig. 125 ; 3, styloid process, detached from the skull ; 7, posterior surface of the right half of the body of the hyoid bone ; 9, internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary joint; 10, inferior dental foramen. transversely, thickest posteriorly, and thinnest at its centre, where it is sometimes perforated. The in- ferior surface, which is in contact with the condyle, is concave ; the superior is concavo-convex from be- fore backwards, conforming with the articular surface of the temporal bone. Its circumference is attached closely to the capsule, and anteriorly a part of the external pterygoid muscle is inserted into it. Synovial Membranes.—The synovial membrane which lies between the interarticular fibro-cartilage and the glenoid cavity is larger and looser than that which is interposed between the fibro-cartilage and the Fig. 127. Fig. 127.—Sagittal section of THE TEMPORO-MAXILLARY AR- TICULATION OF THE RIGHT SIDE. (A. T.) 1, is placed close to the arti- cular eminence, and points to the superior synovial cavity of the joint; 2, is jilaced close to the articular surface of the con- dyle of the lower jaw, and points to the inferior synovial cavity of the joint; x , is placed on the thicker posterior portion of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage. condyle of the jaw. When the fibro-cartilage is per- forated, the upper and lower synovial cavities ne- cessarily communicate with each other. The stylo-maxillary ligament is the name given to a strong thickened band of fibres connected with the cervical fascia extending from the styloid process to the posterior border of the ramus of the jaw, where it is inserted between the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. It separates the parotid from the submaxillary gland. It may be proper also to mention here the stylo-hyoid ligament, a