29 THE THORAX AS A "WHOLE. nearly upwards and downwards. The head is small, and presents a single articular surface for the first dorsal vertebra. The neck is slender, and the angle coincides with the tubercle. On the superior surface are two very slight smooth depressions with an intervening rough mark, and a considerable rough surface behind. The rough surface marks the attachment of the scalenus medius muscle, the posterior depression the position of the subclavian artery, the anterior depression the subclavian vein; and the intervening slight elevation, frequently terminating in a sharp spine on the inner edge—the scalene tubercle—indicates the attachment of the scalenus anticus muscle. The second rib, longer than the first, presents externally a prominent roughness which marks the attachment of the serratus magnus. The eleventh and twelfth ribs have no tubercle, and only a single arti- culating surface on the head. The subcostal groove is scarcely perceptible on the eleventh, and is absent, together with the angle, from the twelfth. Varieties.—The number of the ribs is sometimes increased to thirteen on one or both sides. The supernumerary rib is usually very short, and is most frequently formed in connection with the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, or occasionally with the seventh cervical: in the latter case the addi- tional rib has generally a double attachment, viz., to the body and transverse pro- cess of the vertebra outside a vertebrarterial foramen (see fig. 21,4, v, v, and 8, co.) The costal cartilages unite the ribs to the sternum. Their breadth diminishes gradually from the first to the last, whilst their length increases as far as the seventh, after which they become gradually shorter. Their line of direction varies considerably. The first descends a little, the second is horizontal, and all the rest, except the last two, ascend more and more from the rib towards the sternum as they are situated lower down. The external or costal extremity, convex and uneven, is implanted into and united with the end of the corresponding rib. The internal extremities of the upper seven (except the first) are smaller than the external, somewhat pointed, and fit into the corresponding angular surfaces on the side of the sternum, with which they are articulated in synovial cavities. Each of the cartilages of the first three asternal ribs becomes slender towards its extremity, and is attached to the lower border of that which is next above it. The last two are pointed and unattached. The sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth cartilages form a series of interchondral articulations, by means of a broad process sent down from the rounded angle of the one meeting a less salient projection from the upper border of the next. The first cartilage, which is directly united to the sternum without articular cavity, usually becomes more or less ossified in the adult male ; and the others likewise exhibit a considerable tendency to ossify in advanced life. This tendency is not so great in the female, in whom costal respiration is generally more extended than in the male. THE THOBAX AS A WHOLE. The bony thorax is of a somewhat conical shape, flattened from before back, and much longer behind than in front. The posterior wall, formed by the dorsal vertebra; and the ribs, is convex from above down, and, the ribs being directed backwards from the vertebra; as far as their angles, a broad furrow is produced on each side of the spine which lodges the erector spina; muscle. The anterior wall, formed by the sternum and costal cartilages, is only slightly convex, and is inclined at an angle of