ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 156 the sigmoid cavity of the radius and the lower end of the ulna is effected by means of a fibro-cartilage, a synovial membrane, and some scattered ligamentous fibres in front and behind. The triangular fibro-carti- lage is a thick plate attached by its base to the border separating the Fig. 131. Fig. 131.—The upper part op the ulna, with the ORBICULAR LIGAMENT (R. Quain). § 1, upper division of the sigmoid surface on tlie olecranon ; 2, extremity of the coronoid process ; 5, orbicular ligament. carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of the radius ; and by its apex to a depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna, and to the side of that process. Its upper surface looks towards the ulna, its lower towards the semilunar bone, and it separates the inferior radio-ulnar articulation from the wrist-joint. The synovial membrane, sometimes called from its looseness membrana sac- cformis, extends upwards between the radius and ulna, and horizontally inwards between the ulna and triangular fibro-cartilage. When the fibro- cartilage is perforated, as is frequently the case, this synovial cavity communicates with that of the wrist-joint. The interosseous membrane or ligament of the forearm is a thin, flat, fibrous membrane, the direction of whose fibres is for the most part obliquely downwards and inwards, from the interosseous border of the radius to that of the ulna. Its superior border is placed about an inch below the tubercle of the radius, leaving an open space above (hiatus interosseus) through which the posterior interosseous vessels pass. This space is bounded above by the oblique or round ligament, a thin. Fig. 132. Fig. 132.—The lower parts op the radius and ULNA, WITH THE TRIANGULAR PIBRO-CARTILAGE CON- NECTING them (R. Quain). § 1, ulna; 2, its styloid process; 3, radius; 4, arti- cular surface for the scaphoid bone ; 5, that for the semilunar bone ; 6, lower surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage ; * *, a piece of whalebone passed be- tween the fibro-cartilage and the ulna. narrow fasciculus of fibres extending obliquely .2 downwards and outwards from the coronoid process, to be attached to the radius below the tubercle. Other small bundles of fibres, having the same direction as the oblique ligament, are often to be found at intervals, decussating with the fibres of the interosseous ligament on its posterior surface. Movement of the Radius on the Ulna.—The disposition of the annular ligament allows the head of the radius to rotate freely within it, while the lower end of the radius, bound by the triangular fibro-cartilage to the styloid process of the ulna, has a movement of circumduction round that point, by which the hand is brought into the prone or the supine position. Thus in pronation and supina- tion the radius describes a part of a cone, the axis of which extends from the centre of the head of the radius to the styloid process of the ulna.