MUSCLES OF TIIE SOLE. 265 Relations.—lb is covered partly by the abductor minimi digiti, partly by the plantar fascia. It rests upon the fifth metatarsal bone, and its tendon blends at its insertion with the inferior metatarso-phalangeal ligament. Variety.—The opponens minimi diyiti is a small additional muscle frequently found at the inner border of the flexor brevis, of which, indeed, it appears to be a slip. It is united to the flexor brevis for some distance from its origin, but is in- serted separately into the anterior half of the fifth metatarsal bone. It is regarded as normal by Henlc, Krause, and others. The fourth layer of the sole includes the dorsal and plantar in- terosseous muscles, with which the tendons of the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus are sometimes also enumerated. The interosseous muscles of the foot, like those of the hand, are seven in number, three plantar and four dorsal; the plantar are visible Fig. 192, A.—The dorsal interosseous MUSCLES FROM ABOVE. \ 1, 2, 3, 4, the several dorsal inter- osseous muscles in order from within outwards. B. —The plantar interosseous muscles FROM BELOW. 1, 2, 3, first, second, and third plantar interosseous muscles; this figure also shows the long and short plantar liga- ments, and the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus into the first meta- tarsal bone. only from the under side, while the dorsal muscles are visible both from above and below. Two muscles are found in the second, third and fourth spaces, but only one in the first. The dorsal interosseous mus- cles lie one in each interspace. Each muscle arises by two heads from the adjacent sides of two metatarsal bones ; their muscular fibres are attached pennately on the two sides of a central tendon which is inserted partly into the base of the first phalanx and partly into the extensor aponeurosis of the toe to which each belongs. The first two are inserted one on each side of the second toe ; the third and fourth are severally inserted on the outer sides of the third and fourth toes. At the proximal end of each muscle there is an interval between the two origins giving passage to perfo- rating arteries as in the hand. The plantar interosseous muscles arise from the inner and under surfaces of the third, fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, and are severally inserted, in a manner similar to the dorsal interossei, partly into the inner sides of the first phalanges of the third, fourth and fifth toes, and partly into the extensor tendons of these toes. Nerves.—The extensor brevis digitorum is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Of the muscles of the sole the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor and flexor brevis hallucis, and the two inner lumbricales are supplied by the internal Fix 192.