41- BONES OF TI1E HEAD. The great wings project outwards and upwards from the sides of the body. The back part of each is placed horizontally, and occupies the angle between the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone ; from its pointed extremity it sends downwards a short and sharp pro- jection, the spinous process. The upper and fore part is vertical, and Fig. 37. The indications where marked are the same as in the preceding figure. 17, marks the anterior opening of the Vidian canal ; 18, temporal surface of the great wing; 19, its orbital surface ; 20, sphenoidal turbinate bone ; above 20, the opening into the sphe- noidal sinus ; 21, sphenoidal crest; 22, rostrum, and above 22, the vaginal process. three-sided, lying between the cranial cavity, the orbit, and the temporal fossa. The cerebral surface of the great wing is concave, and forms part of the middle fossa of the base of the cranium. The external surface (temporo-zygomatic) is divided by a ridge, infratemporal crest, into an inferior part, which looks downwards into the zygomatic fossa, and an elongated superior part, looking outwards, which forms a part of the temporal fossa. The anterior surface looks forwards and inwards, and consists of a quadrilateral orbited portion, which forms the back part of the external wall of the orbit, and of a smaller inferior portion which overhangs the pterygoid process, looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and is perforated by the foramen rotundum. The posterior border in its median part bounds the foramen laccrum, in its lateral part articulates with the petrous, and forms with that a groove on the under aspect for the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. The external margin articulates with the squamous, and the extremity overlaps the anterior inferior angle of the parietal. In front of this comes a triangular sur- face, the sides of which are formed by the upper margins of the cerebral, orbital, and temporal surfaces respectively, for articulation with the frontal bone. The anterior margin, between the orbital and temporal surfaces, articulates with the malar bone, and below this is a short hori- zontal free edge separating the zygomatic and spheno-maxillary surfaces. Above and internally the orbital and cerebral surfaces meet at the sharp border which forms the lower boundary of the sphenoidal fissure. The pterygoid processes project downwards and slightly forwards, from the adjacent parts of the body and the great wings. Each consists