BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 110 points. The posterior wall, formed by the sacrum and coccyx, being about five inches long and concave, while the anterior wall at the wards or forwards according to the level of the coccyx. Differences according to sex.—The size and form of the pelvis differ remarkably in the two sexes. In the female the constituent bones Fig. 91.—Vertical median section op a female pelvis (reduced from Niigele’s figure). | 1, symphysis pubis; 2, promontory of the sacrum ; 3, coccygeal bones ; 4, anterior superior spine of ilium ; 5, tuberosity of ischium ; 6, spine of ischium (the obturator foramen is not represented so pointed below as it generally is in females). The verti- cal and horizontal lines in the lower part of the figure will assist the eye in judging of the degree of inclination of the pelvis, as illustrated by the next figure. symphysis pubis is only one and a half or two inches long, the axis is curved ; it is di- rected at the inlet upwards and forwards towards the um- bilicus, and at the outlet downwards and a little back- Fig. 91. Fig. 92. Fig. 92.—Sketch of part op the pre- ceding FIGURE, SHOWING TIIE INCLI- NATION OF THE BRIM OP THE PELVIS AND ITS AXIS IN THE ERECT POSTURE. -lj a, b, line of inclination of the brim of the true pelvis ; e, f, a line inclining backwards and upwards, touching the lower edge of the symphysis pubis and point of the coccyx ; c, d, axis of the brim at right angles to the plane of the brim ; d, h, (j, curved axis of the cavity and outlet. are more slender and less marked with muscular impressions; the perpendicular depth is less, and the breadth and capacity of the true pelvis greater ; the ilia how- ever are more vertical, and thus the false pelvis is relatively nar- rower than in the male ; the inlet of the true pelvis is more nearly circular, the sacral promontory projecting less into it ; the sacrum is flatter and broader ; the depth of the symphysis pubis is less ; the pubic arch is much wider, and the space between the tuberosities of the ischia greater.