227 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. The adductor pollicis muscle arises from the ridge on the lower two- thirds of the palmar aspect of the third metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb along with the inner tendon of the short flexor. The deep palmar arterial arch passes between this muscle and the deep origin of the flexor brevis. Muscles of the little finger.—The fleshy mass at the inner border of the hand (hypothenar eminence) consists of three muscles pass- ing to the little finger. The abductor minimi digiti muscle arises by tendinous fibres from the lower border and inner surface of the pisiform bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger on the ulnar border, a slip being sent to the extensor tendon on the back. The flexor brevis minimi digiti, separated at its origin from the ab- ductor muscle by a small interval through which pass the deep palmar branches of the ulnar nerve and artery, arises from the front of the annular ligament, and from the tip of the hooked processor the unciform bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger, in common with the preceding muscle. This muscle is sometimes absent, or becomes incorporated with the abductor. The opponens minimi digiti muscle arises from the annular liga- ment and the unciform process, and is inserted into the ulnar border of the fifth metacarpal bone in all its length. The interosseous muscles occupy the intervals between the meta- carpal bones. They are seven in number, all of them more or less visible from the pahnar aspect, and they are divided into two sets, viz., those which are best seen on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpus, and those which are seen only in the palm. Their disposition is most easily understood by reference to their action. The dorsal interosseous muscles abduct the fingers from the middle line of the hand; they are four in number, one in each of the spaces be- tween the metacarpal bones, and are numbered from without inwards. Each muscle arises from both the metacarpal bones between which it is placed, but most extensively from that supporting the finger upon which it acts, and the fibres converge pennately to a common tendon in the middle. Each terminates in a tendon which is inserted partly into the base of the first phalanx, and partly into the tendon of the extensor muscle on the dorsum of the same part of the finger. Two of the muscles are inserted into the middle finger and draw it to either side; of the remaining two one passes to the radial side of the index finger, and the other to the ulnar side of the ring finger ; they withdraw those fingers from the middle line of the hand. The first dorsal interosseous muscle or abductor indicis is larger than the others ; its outer and larger head of origin arises from the proximal half of the ulnar border of the first metacarpal bone, the inner is attached to the whole length of the second metacarpal bone, and be- tween these heads there is left superiorly an interval wider than in the other dorsal interosseous muscles. Relations—Between the heads of the abductor indicis the radial artery passes forwards to the palm of the hand ; between those of the other dorsal interosseous muscles, small perforating arterial branches are transmitted. The three palmar interosseous muscles are adductors, drawing the index, ring, and little fingers towards the middle line of the hand. They Q 2