154 ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. longed upon it through an oval opening in the capsule. The insertion of the capsule is likewise interrupted opposite the bicipital groove, to give passage to the long tendon of the biceps muscle. Fig. 123. Fig. 129.—View op the glenoid cavity and liga- ments BETWEEN THE SCAPULA AND CLAVICLE OP THE RIGHT SIDE. 3 1, glenoid fossa, its cartilaginous surface ; 2, glenoid ligament; 3, tendon of the biceps muscle seen in con- nection with the upper part of the glenoid ligament 4, upper surface of the coracoid process ; 5 and G, on the adjacent part of the clavicle ; 4 to 5, the conoid, 4 to G, the trapezoid portion of the coraco-clavicular ligament; 7, apex of the acromion process ; 4 to 7, coraco-acromial ligament; 8, aeromio-clavicular articu- lation, which is open anteriorly, showing a wedge- shaped interarticular fibro-cartilage attached above to the superior acromio-clavicular ligament; x, tl*o inferior acromio-clavicular ligament. The coraco-liumeral, or accessory ligament, is a strong wide band extending obliquely over the upper part of the articulation ; it springs from the root and outer border of the coracoid process, and thence passes to the neck of the humerus above the great tuberosity, intimately Fig. 130. Fig. 130.—A, Section through the shoulder-joint, tendon of the biceps and BICIPITAL GROOVE, SHOWING SOMEWHAT DIAGRAMMATIC ALLY THE SYNOVIAL CAVITY OF THE JOINT, &C. (A.T.) g B, Outline of the same, to snow the reflection of the synovial membrane OVER THE TENDON. 1. outer part of the clavicle; 2, the acromial end ; 3, cavity of the shoulder-joint close to the upper part of the head of the scapula, where there are seen the section of the carti- lages on the head of the humerus and in the glenoid cavity, the glenoid ligament and the origin of the tendon of the biceps muscle ; 4, glenoid’ ligament in the lower part of the cavity ; 5, upper part of the capsular ligament and synovial membrane ; 6, tendon of the biceps as it passes out of the joint into the bicipital groove ; ti', 6', tubular prolongation of the synovial membrane round the tendon ; 7, reflection of the synovial membrane on the humerus within the lower part of the capsular ligament. connected with the capsule. A few anterior fibres of the ligament project into the joint, and are inserted into the inner margin of the upper end of the bicipital groove ; these have been called the gleno- humeral ligament, and are supposed to correspond to the interarticular ligament of the hip-joint.