23 VERTEBRAL HOMOLOGIES. homology referred to in the introduction. These views originated, in somewhat different forms, mainly with Oken, Cams, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, and Owen ; and, with various modifications and extensions by more recent writers, as Goodsir, Huxley, Gegenbaur, St. George Mivart, and Flower, are now admitted by almost all anatomists, in some shape or other, as the basis of a morphological doctrine of the construction of the skeleton. There is not, indeed, an entire agreement among anatomists with respect to some parts of this doctrine; but still there is such a general acknowledgment of both the zoological and serial homology of the parts composing the skeleton, that considerations of this kind cannot be entirely omitted in a work on human anatomy. At the same time, it is obvious that the complicated nature of the subject, and the necessity for frequent re- ference to details of comparative anatomy for its elucidation make it impossible to enter fully into its consideration here, so that our remarks must be limited to those points in which the views of homology have the most immediate bearing upon the knowledge of human anatomy. The accompanying views of the several vertebrae and some of their varieties as seen from above (in fig. 21) may assist the reader in comparing their forms. 1. The series of centra or bodies, surrounding the primary axis of the noto*- chord, is complete in man, from the odontoid process of the second vertebra to the caudal extremity. In the head it is ascertained to be prolonged into the basi- occipital and basisphenoid parts of the base of the skull. It is apparently absent in the atlas, or rather the part corresponding to the centrum or body of that vertebra is united with the body of the axis in the odontoid process : while the anterior arch of the atlas belongs to a different series of parts, not yet accu- rately determined, perhaps to the precentral or subcentral parts or lvypapopliyses. The proofs of this view are derived mainly from, 1st, the remains of the noto- chord having been actually traced in the foetus through the odontoid process (and not through the anterior arch of the atlas) into the basioccipital bone ; 2nd, the separate ossification in cartilage of the odontoid process ; and 3rd, the existence in some animals, as the omithorynchus and some reptiles, of a bone corresponding to the odontoid process, in a separate condition, without any other part representing the body of the atlas. 2. The series of neural arches is complete in the whole vertebral column of man, with the exception of the three lowest coccygeal vertebras, and in part of the upper coccygeal and lowest sacral vertebrae. The neural spines are also com- plete in nearly the same vertebrae as the arches. The spine is absent or little de- veloped in the atlas, bifid at its extremity in the next five cervical vertebrae, but simple in all the remaining vertebrae in which it is present. 3. The articular processes, or zygapophyses, superior and inferior (preaxial and postaxial), correspond in their relations throughout the whole of the vertebrae in which they exist, with the exception of both of those of the atlas and the superior of the axis. In these last mentioned vertebrae the articular pro- cesses are not in the series of zygapophyses, being situated at the place of union of the pedicles with the bodies, or nearly in the place of the capitular articulation of the ribs with the vertebral bodies, and therefore anterior to the place of exit of the spinal nerves, instead of posterior to it as in the other vertebra. In the sacral vertebra the articular processes, existing as such in early life, come to be in the adult united by anchylosis. In the three lower coccygeal vertebra they are absent. 4. It is in the comparison of the parts known in human anatomy under the general name of transverse processes that the main difficulty of establishing homologies exists. In all the cervical vertebra; the processes so called are pierced by a vertebrarterial foramen, and the most of them have two tubercles. Those of the dorsal vertebrae are for the most part simple, but are articulated at two places with the ribs. At these two places are situated processes, sometimes projecting in animals to a considerable extent; of which the dorsal, forming the costo-transverse articulation, is known as the t u bercular process (diapophysis) ; and the ventral, form- ing the costo-central articulation, is named the capitular process (parapophysis) and is placed close to the body, but separated from it by the neuro-central suture. It is very generally admitted that the part in front of the vertebrarterial foramen of