284: MUSCLES OF*THE HEAD AND NECK. eye in Vol. II. inferior rectus muscle. The simple action of the superior oblique muscle, when the eye is directed straight forward, is to produce a movement of the cornea downwards and outwards, that of the inferior oblique to direct the cornea upwards and outwards, and in both with a certain amount of rotation, though in different directions in the two cases. But these movements caused by the oblique muscles are precisely those which are required to neutralise the inward direction and rotatory movements produced by the superior or the inferior rectus, and accord- ingly, by the combined action of the superior rectus and the inferior oblique muscles a straight upward movement is effected, while a similar effect in the downward direction results from the combined action of the inferior rectus and superior oblique muscles. It has been further shown that in all the oblique movements of direction a tombination takes place of the action of the oblique with that of the straight Jauscles. Here, however, two recti muscles are in action and are associated with one oblique muscle; as, for example, in the upward and inward direction, the superior and internal recti with the inferior oblique ; and in the downward and inward direction the inferior and internal recti with the superior oblique. And the same is true of the upward and outward and downward and outward move- ments of direction ; for in all these movements the action of the oblique muscles is necessary to control or supplement the rotatory tendency of the recti muscles ; and in the consentaneous movements of the two eyes the whole six muscles must co-operate in both eyes to produce that perfect agreement in their move- ments of direction and convergence which is required for perfect vision. It is unnecessary here to enter into the detail of the modifications of these actions of the muscles which must accompany changes in the various consenta- neous movements of the eyes, as, for example, in the convergence which is asso- ciated with the adjustment of the eyes to near and distant vision. (Consult M. Foster, “ Text-book of Physiology ” ; Bonders, “ On the anomalies of Accommo- dation,” &c. Syd. Soc. 1864; Helmholtz, Proc. Boy. Soc. xiii. 186, and “Physio- logical Optics,” and Hering in Hermann’s “ Handbuch der Physiologie,” Bd. iii.) Fasciae of the orbit.—The space within the orbit which is not occupied by the eyeball and its muscles, or other parts belonging to it, is completely filled with soft fat and delicate yielding connective tissue. In various places this last is condensed into layers of slender fascia of various degrees of strength, the principal of which is that known as the fascia or capsule of Tenon, a thin mem- brane surrounding the greater part of the eyeball, and forming the wall of a socket in which the globe plays. The fascia is perforated behind by the optic nerve and ciliary vessels and nerves, there becoming continuous with the connective tissue investing those structures, and in front it extends nearly as far as the cornea, where it ends by being attached to the ocular conjunctiva. Its inner surface is connected to the sclerotic coat of the eye only by delicate bundles of yielding connective tissue, the two being separated for the most part by an extensive lymph-space, so that it seems to serve all the purposes of a synovial membrane in the movements of the globe. The fascia is also pierced by the muscles of the eyeball near their insertions, and it sends a tubular prolongation on each of these, which speedily degenerates, however, into a simple areolar investment, except in the case of the sheath on the tendon of the superior oblique, which is stronger than the others and is continued as far as the pulley. The sheaths of the recti adhere closely to the muscular substance, and from their outer part expansions are given off to the margin of the orbit, which serve to limit the degree of contraction of the muscles. The processes from the sheaths of the inner and outer recti are stronger than the other two, especially the external, which is attached to the malar bone and external tarsal ligament. The inner expansion is fixed to the crest of the lachrymal bone ; and the upper one is connected also with the tendon of the levator palpebixe, so that the superior rectus is thus enabled to exercise some influence upon the upper eyelid (Sappey, “ Traite d’Anatom, descrip.” t. ii.; v. Gerlach, “ Beitrage zur norm. Anat. des menschl. Auges,” Leipzig, 1SS0). Certain collections of involuntary muscular fibres that are contained in the eye- lids and wall of the orbit will be noticed in connection with the anatomy of the