SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE LOWER LIMB. 696 between the tendons of the extensor proprius hallucis and extensor longus digitorum. Beneath the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum, on the dorsum of the foot, is placed the extensor brevis digitorum, the fleshy belly of which produces a distinct swelling over the tarsal region. The fleshy mass on the inner margin of the foot is formed by the abductor and flexor brevis hallucis muscles ; and that on the outer border by the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti. In the sole, the thickness of the integument, and the manner in which the parts are bound together by the strong plantar fascia, render it impossible to distinguish the individual muscles. On the back of the foot, the arch or plexus of veins shows plainly through the skin, and its extremities may be followed into the internal and external saphenous veins respectively. The dorsal artery of the foot extends from the centre of the ankle- joint to the back of the first intermetatarsal space, and it may be felt pulsating midway between the tendons of the extensor proprius hallucis and extensor longus digitorum. Just before its ending, it is crossed by the innermost slip of the extensor brevis digitorum. The external plantar artery runs from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial (p. (595) obliquely across the sole to within an inch of the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone, aud then is directed more transversely inwards to the back of the first interosseous space, where it meets the termination of the dorsal artery. The internal plantar artery is much smaller than the external; its position may be indicated by a line drawn from the place of bifurcation of the posterior tibial to the under part of the metatarso- phalangeal articulation of the great toe. The metatarso-phalangeal articulations are situated about an inch behind the web of the toes. ANATOMY OF THE GROIN: HERNIA. Abdominal hernias are chiefly of three kinds, 'inguinal, femoral, and ■umbilical. The last-named, however, which occurs at the umbilicus, need not^be more than mentioned in an anatomical work, inasmuch as it presents relations by no means intricate. An inguinal hernia, following the course of the spermatic cord from the cavity of the abdomen, and a femoral hernia, coming through the crural canal at the inner side of the femoral vessels, have important anatomical relations which must be studied with the greatest attention. INGUINAL HERNIA. The inguinal canal, through which the spermatic cord passes from the cavity of the abdomen to the testis, and through which an inguinal hernia also passes, begins at the internal abdominal ring, and ends at the external one. It is oblique in its direction, being nearly parallel with and immediately above the inner half of Poupart’s ligament; and it measures about an inch and a half in length. The external ring is immediately above and external to the pubic spine ; the internal is midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis, and half an inch above Poupart’s ligament. In front the canal is hounded by the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle in its whole length, and at the outer end by the fleshy part of the internal oblique also; behind it, is the fascia transversalis, together with, towards