SPIRAL NEEVES. 6C2 inwards over the anterior scalenus muscle ; and near the chest it is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, sometimes also by another filament given off by the branch proceeding from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves to the subclavius muscle. As it enters the thorax each phrenic nerve is placed between the sub- clavian artery and vein, and crosses over the internal mammary artery near its root. It then takes a nearly straight direction, in front of the root of the lung on each side, and along the side of the pericardium— between this and the mediastinal part of the pleura. Near the dia- phragm it divides into branches, which separately penetrate the fibres of that muscle, and then diverging from each other, are distributed on the under surface. The rigid, nerve is placed more deeply than the left, and is at first directed along the outer side of the right innominate vein and the descending vena cava. The nerve of the left side is a little longer than that of the right, in consequence of the oblique position of the pericardium round which it winds, and also because the diaphragm is lower on this than on the opposite side. This nerve crosses in front of the left vagus and the arch of the aorta before reaching the pericardium. Besides the terminal branches supplied to the diaphragm, each phrenic nerve gives filaments to the pleura and pericardium, aud receives some- times an offset from the union of the descending branch of the hypo- glossal with the cervical nerves. Luschka describes twigs from the lower part of the nerve to the peritoneum, and on the right side to the inferior cava and the right auricle of the heart. One or two filaments of the nerve of the right side join in a small ganglion with branches to the diaphragm which are derived from the solar plexus of the sympathetic ; and from the ganglion twigs are given to the suprarenal capsule, the hepatic plexus, and the lower vena cava. On the left side there is a junction between the phrenic and the sym- pathetic nerves near the oesophageal and aortic openings in the diaphragm, but without the appearance of a ganglion. DEEP BRANCHES : EXTERNAL SERIES. Muscular branches.—The sterno-masteid receives a branch from the second cervical nerve. Two branches proceed from the third and fourth nerves to the levator anguli scapulae ; and from the same nerves, as they leave the spinal canal, branches are given to the middle scalenus muscle. Farther, the trapezius receives one or more considerable branches which arise from the third and fourth cervical trunks in common with the supraclavicular nerves. Connection with the spinal accessory nerve.—In the substance of the sterno-mastoid muscle, this nerve is connected with the branch of the cervical plexus furnished to that muscle. It is also connected with the branches distributed to the trapezius—the union between the nerves being beneath the muscle, and having the appearance of a plexus ; and with another branch of the cervical plexus in the interval between the two muscles. Summary of the cervical plexus.—From the cervical plexus cutaneous nerves are distributed to the side of the head, to part of the ear and face, to the anterior half or more of the neck, and to the upper