307 DORSAL AND LUMBAR FASCIAE. SPLENIUS. passes beneath the superior serratus ; below, it is blended with the tendons of the latissimus and inferior serratus muscles, and in being- stretched from the spinous processes outwards to the angles of the ribs, it helps to enclose the angular space in which are lodged the long- extensor muscles. Under the name of lumbar fascia or aponeurosis it has been customary to describe three strong membranous layers ensheathing the erector spin* and quadratus lumborum muscles. The deeper parts of this structure, to which by some the name of lumbar fascia is restricted, will be described along with the abdominal muscles, with which they are chiefly connected. The superficial or posterior layer is that through which the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior muscles are attached to the spines of the vertebrae. This layer, whi ch is of considerable strength, extends outwards beyond the origin of the latissimus and serratus inferior, and becoming closely united with the middle layer, binds down firmly the erector spin* muscle : it is by some described as the lower part of the vertebral aponeurosis, with which it is continuous, by others it has been named the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. The splenius muscle is so named from its having the form of a strap, which binds down the parts lying under it. It is attached superiorly in part to the cervical vertebrae, in part to the skull, and is described ac- cordingly under two names. a. The splenius colli is attached inferiorly to the spinous processes of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth dorsal vertebrae, and superiorly along with the slips of the levator anguli scapulae to the transverse processes of the first two or three cervical vertebrae. b. The splenius capitis, broader and thicker than the preceding, arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and two upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the ligamentum nuchae as high as the third cervical vertebra. It is inserted into the lower part of the mastoid process, and into the outer part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone.- Relations.- The splenius is covered below and internally by the trapezius, the rhomboids and the serratus posticus superior ; and at its insertions by the stemo- mastoid and levator anguli scapulae. It conceals, in part, the coinplexus and tra- chelo-mastoid. Varieties.—The origin of the splenius is frequently moved upwards to the extent of one or two vertebral. The rhomlio-atloidcus (Macalister) is a muscular slip occasionally present, arising from one or two lower cervical or upper dorsal spines, superficial to the serratus posticus superior, and inserted into the transverse process of the atlas. Erector spinae.—This is a large composite muscle, extending throughout the whole length of the back from the pelvis to the head, and divided for purposes of description into seven parts, to which distinct names are applied. Commencing below as a common mass, it is continued upwards in three columns, of which the innermost, spinalis dorsi, is comparatively slender and short, while the other two are much thicker, and are again subdivided each into three portions, viz., in the outer column, ilio-costalis, accessorius, and cervicalis ascendens, and in the middle column, longissimus dorsi, transvvrsalis cervicis, and traciielo-mastoid. The origin of the erector spin* takes place mainly by means of a strong flattened tendon which is attached to the lowest two or three dorsal and all the lumbar and sacral spines, to the posterior fifth of the iliac crest, and to the lower and back part of the sacrum, as well as to the ligaments