236 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. and the margin of the pubic arch ; a few fibres also arise from the obturator fascia, which is in contact with the deep surface of the muscle. Its fibres converging as they proceed backwards from this origin, the muscle emerges from the pelvis by the small sacro-sciatic foramen, gliding over the trochlear surface of the ischium, and is directed outwards, to be inserted, in connection with the gemelli, into an im- pression on the fore part of the inner surface of the great trochanter. The tendon occupies the surface of the muscle which is towards the bone, and consists as it passes through the foramen of four or five narrow portions which, commencing independently in the substance of the pelvic portion of the muscle, receive the pinnately disposed fleshy fibres. A layer of cartilage lines the trochlear groove of the bone, and forms a series of ridges with intervening grooves corresponding to the divisions of the tendon, while the movement of the latter is facilitated by a large synovial bursa. Another bursa, of much smaller size, elongated and narrow, is sometimes placed between the tendon and the capsule of the hip-joint. These bursae are occasionally continuous with one another. Relations.—The deep surface of the pelvic portion is in contact with the obtu- rator portion of the pelvic fascia and near its lower border with the pudic vessels and nerve. The outer surface is in contact with the bone and obturator mem- brane. At its upper border the obturator vessels and nerve pass through the obturator foramen. The extrapelvic portion lies between the gemelli and in con- tact with the ischium and capsule of the hip-joint. It is covered by the great sacro-sciatic ligament, the sciatic vessels and nerves, and by the gluteus maximus. The gemelli (gemini) are two small narrow muscles, consisting chiefly of fleshy fibres extended horizontally on each side of the tendon of the obturator internus ; and they are named from their position above and below the tendon. The gemellus superior, which is usually the smaller muscle, arises from the outer and lower part of the ischial spine ; the gemellus inferior takes origin from the upper part of the tuberosity of the ischium, along the lower border of the groove for the obturator internus. Passing outwards, they join the tendon of the in- ternal obturator muscle, and are inserted with that into the great trochanter. The two muscles usually meet at their origin beneath the tendon of the obturator, while at their insertion they overlap and more or less conceal it. Relations.—The superior gemellus is placed immediately below the pyriformis ; the inferior gemellus is above the quadratus femoris, and at its insertion is close to the tendon of the obturator externus muscle. These muscles may be regarded as portions of the obturator internus arising externally to the pelvis. Varieties.— The gemellus superior is often very small, and not unfrequently is altogether absent. Absence of the gemellus inferior has also been observed, but more rarely than that of the upper muscle. The quadra-feus femoris muscle, of an oblong shape, arises from an impression along the outer border of the ischial tuberosity, and, pro- ceeding horizontally outwards, is inserted into the tubercle of the quad- ratus and the back of the femur immediately below this, reaching to the level of the small trochanter. Relations.—The upper border of this muscle is in contact with the inferior gemellus ; the lower with the adductor magnus, the transverse branch of the internal circumflex artery passing between the two. It conceals the outer part of