THE ULNA. 01 deltoid, which it pushes up, and thus gives roundness to the shoulder ; the shaft is entirely surrounded ; both condyles are subcutaneous, the internal being prominent, whilst the appearance of the external varies as the forearm is moved. When the elbow is bent the capitellum projects under its muscular covering and forms the rounded prominence outside the point of the elbow. Varieties.—A small hook-like process, with its point directed downwards, is not unfrequently found in front of the internal condylar ridge, the supracon- dylar process. From its extremity, a fibrous band, giving origin to the pronator radii teres muscle, passes to the internal condyle, and through the arch thus formed passes the median nerve, accompanied frequently by the brachial artery, or by a large branch rising from it. This process represents a portion of the bone enclosing a foramen in carnivorous animals. (See Struthers, Edin. Med. Joum., 1848 ; Gruber, “ Canalis supracondyloideus humeri,” Mem. de l’Acad. Imp. de St. Petersburg, 1859, p. 57.) The thin plate between the olecranon and coronoid fossae is sometimes perforated (supratrochlear foramen'). THE ULNA. The ulna is the internal of the two bones of the forearm. It is longer than the radius by the extent of the olecranon process. It is inclined downwards and outwards from the humerus in such a direc- tion that a straight line passing from the great tuberosity of the humerus downwards through the capitellum would touch the lower end of the ulna. The ulna articulates with the humerus and the radius : in the natural skeleton it is not in contact with the carpal bones, being ex- cluded from the wrist-joint by an interarticular fibro-cartilage. The superior extremity is of large size, and presents for articulation with the humerus a large articular surface, the great sigmoid cavity, which looks forwards and is bounded in its posterior and upper part by the olecranon, a thick process continued upwards from the shaft, and in its lower part by the coronoid process, which projects forwards. The great sigmoid cavity is concave from above downwards, and is convex from side to side, being traversed by a vertical ridge. The part external to this ridge is broad and convex above, while the part internal to the ridge is broad and concave below: a slight constriction, and sometimes a groove of division, occurs across the middle of the cavity. Continuous with the great is the small sigmoid cavity, a small articular surface on the outer side of the base of the coronoid process, concave from before backwards, and articulating with the cylindrical part of the head of the radius. Superiorly the olecranon is broad and uneven, termi- nating in front in an acute process or beak, which overhangs the great sigmoid cavity, and which in extension of the elbow passes into the olecranon fossa of the humerus, and behind in a rectangular prominence or tuberosity, which forms the point of the elbow, and gives attachment to the triceps extensor muscle. The posterior surface of the olecranon is subcutaneous and continuous with the posterior margin of the shaft of the ulna. The extremity of the coronoid process is sharp and prominent, and is received during flexion into the coronoid fossa of the humerus : its superior surface forms part of the surface of the great sigmoid cavity : the inferior surface rises gradually from the anterior surface of the bone, and is covered by a large triangular roughness which gives insertion to the brachialis anticus muscle.