376 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. branch, which runs upon the upper constrictor, and sends small rami- fications to the Eustachian tube, to the tensor and levator palati muscles, and to the tonsil. The last mentioned, or palatine branch, is sometimes of considerable size, and supplies the soft palate, taking the place of the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery, which in such cases is small. It divides into an anterior and a posterior twig, both of which anastomose in the middle line, with their fellows of the opposite side. Fig. 237. Fig. 237.—The lingual and ascending pharyngeal arteries (from R. Quain). \ The left half of the lower jaw has been removed, with the external and internal ptery- goid muscles, and the temporal muscle has been turned up from within the zygoma : a, base of the zygoma, above the glenoid cavity ; b, placed on the lobule of the ear, points by a line to the styloid process, from which the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus are seen passing downwards and forwards, while the stylo-hyoid, detached from the hyoid bone, is thrown backwards with the digastric muscle ; c, transverse process of the atlas ; d, upper surface of the tongue ; e. sawn surface of the lower jaw ; f hyoid bone ; 1, common carotid artery ; 2, internal carotid artery ; 3, external carotid artery ; 3', placed on the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, points by a line to the upper part of the external carotid artery, divided where it enters the parotid gland ; 4, superior thyroid artery, its laryn- geal branch passing upon the thyro-liyoid membrane ; 5, lingual artery, about to pass beneath the hyo-glossus muscle ; 5', placed on the genio-glossus, points to the continuation of the lingual artery as the ranine ; 6, facial artery cut short ; 6', its inferior palatine branch ; 7, occipital artery cut short ; 8, ascending pharyngeal artery ; 8', its upper part turning down upon the pharynx ; 9, internal maxillary artery as it passes into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and gives the posterior dental and the infraorbital arteries ; 9', middle meningeal artery ; 10, placed on the deep surface of the temporal muscle, which shows some cut branches of the deep temporal arteries.