117 THE FIBULA. digitorum, and more externally is a slight depression where the tendon of the flexor longns hallucis lies. The tibia is slightly twisted, so that when the upper extremity has its long diameter directed transversely, the internal malleolus is inclined forwards. Fig. 97.—Right tieia from behind. (A. T.) J 6, and 9, as in the preceding figure; 2', groove behind the internal tuberosity for the tendon of the semimem- branosus ; 10, articular facet for the head of the fibula ; 11, oblique line of tibia, above which is the triangular popliteal surface; 12, medullary foramen directed down- wards; 13, triangular rough surface for the lower inter- osseous ligament, and small cartilaginous surface below it for articulation with the fibula ; 14, below a slight groove marking the place of the flexor longus hallucis muscle ; 15, below the groove of the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles. Fig. 97. Both tuberosities of the tibia are subcuta- neous, the external forming a superficial prominence at the outer and fore part of \~12 the outer am the knee. The internal surface of the shaft is thinly covered for a short distance at the upper part by the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous, together with the continuous surface of the internal malleolus. Anteriorly, the tubercle gives rise to a slight elevation below the knee, on which the body is supported in kneel- ing, and running down from this the crest is to be followed, constituting the shin. THE FIBULA. The fibula, or peroneal bone, is situated at "the outer side of the leg ; it is nearly equal to the tibia in length, but is much more slender. Its inferior extremity is placed a little in advance of the superior ; and its shaft is slightly curved, so as to have the convexity directed backwards, and, in the lower half, slightly inwards towards the tibia. The superior extremity, or head, somewhat expanded, is produced upwards at its hind- most part into a conical eminence, known as the styloid process; in front of, and inside this is a small oval cartilage-covered facet, looking upwards, inwards and forwards, for articulation with the outer tuberosity of the tibia; while more externally is a somewhat excavated surface where the tendon of the biceps femoris is inserted : the outer side of the head is smooth and subcutaneous. The somewhat constricted part below the head is distinguished as the neck. The inferior extremity, or external malleolus, is longer and more 15 14