DORSAL NERVES. S20 ramifies in the integument of the upper half of the arm, on the inner and posterior aspect; a few filaments reach the integument over the •scapula. The branches of this nerve cross over the internal cutaneous offset of the musculo-spiral, and a communication is established between the two nerves. The size of the intercosto-humeral nerve, and the extent of its distribution, are in inverse proportion to the size of the other cutaneous nerves of the upper arm, especially the nerve of Wrisberg. The anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax, which are the terminal twigs of the intercostal nerves, are reflected outwards in the integument over the great pectoral muscle. The branch from the second nerve is connected with the supraclavicular and the lateral cutaneous nerves ; those from the third and fourth nerves are distributed over the mammary gland. LOWER OR ABDOMINAL INTERCOSTAL NERVES. The lower intercostal nerves are continued from the anterior ends of the intercostal spaces, between the internal oblique and the transversalis muscles of the abdomen, to the outer edge of the rectus. Perforating the sheath, they enter the substance of that muscle, and afterwards terminate in small cutaneous branches (anterior cutaneous). They supply branches to the intercostal muscles, to the serratus posticus inferior, and to the abdominal muscles with which they are in contact. Filaments are also described as passing from these nerves to the costal liart of the diaphragm (Luschka). The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen pass to the integu- ment through the external intercostal and external oblique muscles, in a line with the corresponding nerves on the thorax, and divide in the same manner into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branches are the larger, and are directed inwards in the superficial fascia, with small cutaneous arteries, nearly to the edge of the rectus muscle. The posterior branches bend backwards over the latissimus dorsi. The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen are uncertain in number and position. There are generally two or three twigs from each nerve, and some of them perforate the rectus near its outer border, but the greater number issue near the linea alba. LAST DORSAL NERVE. The anterior primary division of the last dorsal nerve is directed out- wards in company with the abdominal branch of the first lumbar artery along the lower border of the twelfth rib. It passes beneath the external arched ligament of the diaphragm, across the front of the quadratus lumborum, and at the outer border of the latter muscle it perforates the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis to follow a course similar to that of the lower intercostal nerves in the abdominal wall. It is con- nected near its origin with the first lumbar nerve by means of a small -cord which descends on or in the substance of the quadratus lumborum muscle. Its branches are the same as those of the lower intercostal nerves, and it sometimes communicates in the abdominal wall with the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Its anterior cutaneous twigs are distributed below a point midway between the umbilicus and the pubis.