BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 603 part of the trunk. The muscles supplied with nerves from the plexus are the sterno-mastoid, the trapezius, and the infra-hyoid muscles in part; the anterior and lateral recti capitis, the levator auguli scapulae, the scalenus medius, and the diaphragm. By means of its branches the plexus communicates with the pneumo-gastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves. BRACHIAL PLEXUS. This large plexus, from which the nerves of the upper limb are supplied, is formed by the union of the anterior trunks of the four lower cervical and the greater part of the first dorsal nerves ; aud it also receives in many cases a fasciculus from the lowest of the nerves (fourth), which go to form the cervical plexus. The plexus extends from the lower part of the neck to the axillary space, and terminates opposite the coracoid process of the scapula in large nerves for the supply of the limb. The manner in which the nerves are disposed in the plexus is liable to some variation, but the following may be regarded as the arrange- ment most frequently met with. The fifth and sixth cervical join together at the outer border of the scalenus medius to form an upper I trunk ; similarly the eighth cervical and first dorsal unite together between the scaleni muscles to form a lower trunk; while the seventh cervical remains single, forming a middle trunk. Soon after passing the outer border of the scaleni muscles, each primary trunk divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branches of the upper and middle trunks unite together to form what is called the tipper or outer cord of the plexus ; the anterior f branch of the lower trunk forms by itself the lotrer or inner cord of the plexus, and the posterior branches of all three trunks unite together to form the middle or posterior cord. The cords thus formed lie at first in a single bundle on the outer side of the first part of the axillary vessels, but lower down they are placed, one on the outer side of the axillary artery, one on the inner side, and one behind that vessel in its second part, whence they are continued into the principal nerves for the arm. Varieties.—Deviations from the arrangement above described, depending upon alterations in the level at which the several portions of the plexus separate and unite, are often met with. The seventh cervical nerve is sometimes divided into three branches, one passing to each of the three cords of the plexus. Cases are recorded in which the plexus consisted of only two cords, the larger one repre- senting either the inner and outer, or the posterior and inner cords of the normal arrangement. (See Kaufmann, " Die Variet. d. Plex. brach.,” Giessen, 1SG4 ; Turner, Nat. Hist. Rev., 1864, and Journ. Anat., 1872). An additional root from j the second dorsal nerve is of very frequent occurrence (p. 619). The fifth cervical nerve is not unfrequently, the sixth more rarely, directed outwards through the fibres of the scalenus anticus ; the fifth nerve may even pass altogether in front of that muscle. Branches.—The branches proceeding from the plexus are numerous and may be conveniently divided into two classes— viz., those that arise above the clavicle, and those that take origin below the bone. BRANCHES ABOVE THE CLAVICLE. Above the clavicle there arise from the trunks of the brachial plexus the posterior thoracic and suprascapular nerves, a nerve for the rhorn- I