NASAL CAVITIES AND AIR SINUSES. C7 terminates at the internal occipital protuberance. From that point the grooves of the lateral sinuses pass outwards on the occipital bone, cross the posterior inferior angles of the parietal bones, descend on the mastoid portions of the temporal bones, run inwards again on the occipital, and turn forwards to terminate at the jugular foramen. The groove of the inferior petrosal sinus lies between the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the basilar process ; that of the superior petrosal sinus extends along the superior edge of the petrous portion. THE NASAL CAVITIES AND COMMUNICATING AIR SINUSES. The nasal cavities, or fossae, are placed one on each side of a median vertical septum. They open in front by the anterior nasal aperture and behind by the posterior nares already described, and communicate with the sinuses of the frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary bones. Their vertical extent, as well as that from before backwards, is considerable, but their transverse width is very limited, especially in the upper part. The internal wall, or septum nasi, is formed by the central plate of the ethmoid, the vomer, the nasal spine of the frontal, the rostrum of the sphenoid, and the crests of the maxillary and palate bones. It presents a great angular deficiency in front, which in the recent state is filled up by the septal cartilage. In most cases it deviates somewhat from the middle line to one side or the other. The roof is horizontal in its middle part, but sloped downwards be- fore and behind. The middle part is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the fore part by the frontal and nasal bones, and the back part by the body of the sphenoid, the ala of the vomer and the sphenoidal process of the palate bone. It presents the apertures of the cribriform plate and the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus. The floor, formed by the palate plates of the maxillary and palate bones, is smooth, and concave from side to side. Towards its anterior extremity is the orifice of the incisor foramen. The external wall is the most extensive. The bones which take part in its formation are the nasal, superior maxillary, lachrymal, ethmoid, inferior spongy, and palate bones, and the internal pterygoid plates. The superior and inferior turbinate processes of the ethmoid bone, and the inferior spongy bone projecting inwards, overhang the three hollows called meatuses. The superior meatus, very short, is placed between the superior and inferior turbinate parts of the ethmoid ; into it open anteriorly the posterior ethmoidal cells, and posteriorly the spheno- palatine foramen. The middle meatus, the space between the inferior turbinate part of the ethmoid and the inferior spongy bone, communi- cates at its fore part by means of the infundibulum, with the anterior ethmoidal cells and the frontal sinus, while in its middle is the opening of the maxillary sinus. The inferior meatus, longer than the others, lies between the inferior spongy bone and the floor of the nasal cavity, and in its fore part is the orifice of the nasal duct. The air sinuses are hollows within the ethmoid, frontal, sphenoid, and maxillary bones, which communicate with the nasal cavities by narrow orifices. With the exception of the maxillary sinus these cavities are absent in early youth. The maxillary sinus begins to be formed about the fourth month of foetal life ; the frontal, ethmoidal and