613 MEDIAN NERVE. the palm behind the annular ligament, and rests on the flexor tendons. Somewhat enlarged, and of a slightly reddish colour, it here separates into two parts of nearly equal size. One of these (the external) supplies some of the short muscles of the thumb, and gives digital branches to the thmnb and the index finger ; the second portion supplies the middle finger, and in part the index and ring fingers. The median nerve usually gives no branch in the upper arm. A. —Branches in the forearm. {a) Articular branches.—These are one or two filaments to the front of the elbow-joint (Riidinger). (b) Muscular branches arise either together or separately in the neigh- bourhood of the elbow and pass to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus and flexor sublimis digitorum. A second branch to the flexor sublimis is usually given off by the trunk at a lower level in the forearm. (c) Anterior interosseous nerve.—This is the longest branch of the median nerve, and it supplies the deeper muscles of the front of the forearm. Leaving the main trunk a little below the elbow, it runs downwards with the artery of the same name on the interosseous mem- brane to the deep surface of the pronator quadratus muscle, in which it ends. It distributes branches to the flexor longus pollicis and the outer half of the flexor profundus digitorum between which it lies ; other fila- ments are supplied to the interosseous membrane and the bones of the forearm (Rauber, “ Ueber die Nhrven der Knockenhaut,” &c., Miinchen, 18G8) ; and from its lower end a twig is continued to the front of the wrist- joint. (d) The palmar cutaneous branch arises a ifriable distance above the wrist, and pierces the fascia of the forearm close to the annular ligament, to terminate in the integument of the palm, where it communicates with the palmar cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. Some filaments are distributed over the ball of the thumb, and form communications with twigs of the radial or external cutaneous nerve. B. Branches in the hand. Fig. 345.—Distribution os' the digital nerves (from Hirsclifeld and Leveille). h 1, palmar collateral nerve ; 2, its final palmar distribution ; 3, its dorsal or ungual distribution, and between these numbers the network of terminal filaments ; 4, dorsal collateral nerve ; 5, uniting twigs pass- ing between the dorsal and palmar digital nerves. (a) Branch to muscles of the thumb.—This short nerve subdivides into branches for the abductor, the opponens, and the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis muscles. (b) Digital nerves.—These are five in number, and belong to the thumb, and the fingers as far as the outer side of the ring-finger. As they approach the clefts between the fingers, they are close to the integument in the intervals between the longitudinal divisions of the palmar fascia. The first and second nerves lie along the sides of the thumb ; and the former (the outer one) is connected with the radial nerve over the border of the thumb. The third, destined for the radial side of the index finger, gives a branch to the first or most external lumbricalis muscle. Fig. 345.