VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 20 are subcutaneous from the seventh cervical to the third sacral. The upper cervical spines are deeply placed and can be felt with difficulty in the median interval between the muscular masses of the back of the neck; the sixth is sometimes long and in such cases may project. The seventh cervical and the following one or two dorsal spines are promi- nent, the others lie at the bottom of the long spinal farrow produced by the eminence of the spinal muscles on each side. OSSIFICATION OF THE VERTEBRiE. Tlie Vertebrae in general.—The ossification of each vertebra proceeds in cartilage from three principal centres, one for the main part of the body, and one on each side for the arch and processes, together with a part on each side of the body. The lateral centres appear about the 7th week of foetal life, that of the Fig. 17.—Ossification of the ver- tebras. (R. Quain.) A, foetal vertebra, showing the three primary centres ; 1, 2, neural ossifica- tions ; 3, central ossification. B, dorsal vertebra from a child of two years ; 1 & 2 are seen to have en- croached upon the body at * the neuro- central suture, to have extended into the articular and transverse processes, and to have united behind in the spinous process, leaving the ends cartilaginous. C, dorsal vertebra at about seventeen years, showing epiphyses on the trans- verse processes, 4 & 5, and spinous process, 6, and the upper epiphysial plate of the body, 7. D & E, parts of a lumbar vertebra of about the same age, showing, in addi- tion to the foregoing, 8, the lower epi- physial plate of the body ; 9 & 10, the epiphyses of the mammillary tubercles. body very soon afterwards. From these centres the ossification extends gradually, so as to form the greater part of the vertebra. That of the body does not pass, however, in the dorsal vertebrae the place of articulation of the head of the rib, leaving on each side a portion of the body which is formed from the lateral centre, and is separated up to the third year by a narrow cartilaginous interval— the neuro-central suture. It would appear further, that while ossification in the arches commences first in the cervical vertebrae, the osseous centres of the bodies appear earliest in the lower dorsal vertebrae. At the time of birth most of the vertebras consist of three osseous pieces, cor- responding to the three original centres. In the first year of infancy the laminae of opposite sides become united in a number of the vertebras, but not in all. The spinous processes, remaining cartilaginous for a time, are gradually completed by the growth of the cartilage and the extension of the bone into them, and at the same time, by the ossific extension of the transverse processes and other parts, the vertebrae gradually attain to nearly their full size and shape about the age of puberty. At different periods subsequent to this, five epiphyses, or supplementary centres of ossification, are added. Three of these are small portions of bone, placed on the tips of the spinous and transverse processes: the other two are thin annular plates on the upper and lower surfaces of the body at its circumference. In the lumbar vertebrae two other epiphyses surmount the mammillary processes. These epiphyses appear from the sixteenth to the twentieth year, and are not wholly united to the rest of the vertebra before the twenty-fifth year. The transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra is sometimes developed altogether Fig. 17. A B