ANTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE. G45 "become enlarged (like the posterior interosseous nerve on the wrist) breaks up into branches which supply the short extensor muscle, and the articulations of the foot. (<7) The internal branch, continuing onwards in the direction of the anterior tibial nerve, accompanies the dorsal artery of the foot to the first interosseous space, and ends in two branches, which supply the integu- Fig. 363.—Distribution' of the branches of the EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE ON THE FRONT OF THE leg and dorsum of the foot (after Hirschfeld ancl LeveilR). £ The upper part of the penmens longus muscle has Been removed, the tibialis anticus, the long extensor of the great toe and the peroneus longus are drawn apart in the leg by hooks marked a, b, and c, and the tendons of the extensor muscles have been removed on the dor- sum of the foot : 1, external popliteal or peroneal nerve, winding round the outer part of the fibula; 1', its re- current articular branches exposed by the dissection of the upper part of the tibialis anticus muscle ; 2, 2, musculo-cutaneous nerve ; 2', 2', twigs to the long and short; peroneal muscles ; 3, 3) internal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve ; 4, 4', 4', its external branch ; 5, external saphenous nerve, uniting at two places with the outer branch of the musculo-cutaneous ; 5', its branch to the outer side of the fifth toe ; 6, placed on the upper part of the extensor longus digitorum, marks the anterior tibial nerve passing beneath the muscle ; <5, placed farther down on the tendon of the tibialis anticus, points to the nerve as it lies in front of the anterior tibial artery ; 6', 6', its muscular branches in the leg ; 6", on the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis, points to the anterior tibial nerve after it has passed into the foot behind that tendon; 7, its inner branch, uniting with a twig of the musculo-cutaneous, and giving the dorsal digital nerves to the adjacent sides of the first and second toes ; 8, distribution of its outer branch to the extensor brevis digitorum and tarsal articulations. menfc on the neighbouring sides of the great toe and the second toe on their dorsal aspect. It communicates with the internal division of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. From the internal branch one, and from the external two or three, slender interosseous branches are sent forwards over the inter- Fig. 363. metatarsal spaces to the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. The second and sometimes the first of these nerves give twigs to the dorsal inter- osseous muscles upou which they lie. (Eudinger; Cunningham, Journ. Anat., xiii., 31)8.) Summary of the external popliteal nerve.—This nerve sup- plies, besides articular branches to the knee, ankle, and foot, the peronei muscles and the extensor muscles of the foot, also the integument of the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot. It gives the peroneal commu- nicating branch to the short saphenous nerve, and communicates with, the long saphenous nerve.