DEEP PERINEAL FASCIA. 33-5 The deep perineal or subpubic fascia, triangular ligament of the urethra, is stretched across the subpubic arch on the deep surface of the crura of the penis and the bulb of the urethra. It consists of two distinct layers of strong fibrous membrane, separated by intervening structures. The inferior or anterior layer, extending backwards in the middle line to the central point of the perineum, is attached on each side to the rami of the pubis and ischium, while posteriorly its base becomes connected with the superior layer, and with the recurved margin of the superficial perineal fascia. Anteriorly it is continued into the angle between the crura of the penis, and at a deeper level a short Fig. 219. Fig. 219.—Frontal section op the pelvis in the situation indicated by the line A, A', IN PIGS. 220, SHOWING THE DISPOSITION OP THE PELVIC FASCIA AND TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT OP TIIE URETHRA ( SE JIIDIAGEAMATIc). (G.D.T.) «, section of the hip-bone passing though the centre of the acetabulum ; b, section of the ramus of the ischium ; c, bladder, from which the urethra is continued downwards ; d, prostate gland ; e, corpus spongiosum urethrae, covered by the bulbo-cavernosi muscles; /, eras penis, covered by the ischio-cavernosus muscle ; 1, obturator membrane ; 2, ob- turator internus muscle; 3, 3, obturator fascia; 4, levator ani muscle ; 5, recto-vesical fascia, dividing into an ascending layer attached to the bladder, and a descending layer forming the sheath of the prostate : between the fascia and the prostate are the veins of the prostatic plexus ; 6, superior, and 7, inferior layer of the triangular ligament of the urethra ; 8, constrictor urethrse muscle, embedded in which, close to the ischium, are the pudic vessels and the dorsal nerve of the penis. In order to show more clearly the relations of the parts, the urethra is represented as being laid open through the whole of the prostatic and membranous, and the commence- ment of the spongy portions ; whereas the lower half of the prostatic portion is naturally a little behind the plane of the section. but strong fibrous band (transverse ligament of the pelvis, Henle) stretches across the subpubic angle near its apex, bounding with the subpubic ligament an oval aperture, through which the dorsal vein of the penis is transmitted. About an inch from the symphysis this layer is perforated by the urethra, immediately before its entrance into the bulb, and the latter structure is intimately adherent to, and receives a superficial expansion from, the under surface of the membrane. Farther forwards it is also pierced by the pudic artery and the dorsal nerve of the penis on each side. Between the two layers of the deep perineal