270 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 36. Adductor pollicis 37. Tendons of flexor sublimis digi torum .... 36. Transversus pedis. 37. Flexor brevis digitorum. 38. Palmaris brevis . 39. Abductor minimi digiti 40. Flexor brevis minimi digiti 41. Opponens minimi digiti 38. 39. Abductor minimi digiti. 40. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. 41. Opponens minimi digiti. 42. Interossei, dorsal and plantar. a. Tibialis secundi digiti (dors.). h. Fibularis sec. dig. (dors.). 42. Interossei, dorsal and palmar a. Radialis secundi digiti (dors.) 1. Ulnaris sec. dig. (palm.) c. Eadialis medii (dors.) . d. Ulnaris medii (dors.) . e. Radialis quarti (palm.) /. Ulnaris quarti (dors.) . g. Radialis quinti (palm.). c. Tibialis tertii (plant.). d. Fibularis tertii (dors.). e. Tibialis quarti (plant.). f. Fibularis quarti (dors.). g. Tibialis quinti (plant.). 43. Lumbricales 43. Lumbricales. III.—MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Fascia.—The superficial fascia is little developed on the head and neck generally, and is in great measure blended with structures described under other names. A layer of considerable firmness, however, inter- venes between the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle and the skin, uniting them closely together: from the surface of the occipital part of the muscle it becomes continuous with the superficial covering of the posterior muscles of the neck, and on each side of the epicranial aponeurosis it descends over the temporal fascia, and contains between its lamirne the external muscles of the ear, with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. Muscles.—Under the title of occipito-frontalis are comprised the occipital and frontal muscles, united together by a thin aponeurosis which extends over and covers the upper part of the cranium. The occipitalis muscle, thin aud subcutaneous, is attached inferiorly by short tendinous fibres to the external two-thirds, sometimes less, of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and to the mastoid por- tion of the temporal bone above the attachment of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Its fleshy fibres, from one to two inches in length, are directed upwards, and terminate in distinct tendinous fibres, continuous with the epicranial aponeurosis. The interval between the muscles of opposite sides is occupied by the aponeurosis. The frontalis muscle, larger and of a paler colour than the occi- pitalis, arises superiorly in a convex line from the epicranial aponeurosis between the coronal suture and the frontal eminence. Inferiorly the fibres terminate in the subcutaneous tissue at the root of the nose and along the whole length of the eyebrow, the inner fibres appearing to be continued into the pyramidalis nasi muscle, while the larger number interlace with those of the corrugator supercilii and orbicularis palpe- brarum. The fibres are nearly vertical, running slightly inwards as they descend: the margins of the right and left muscles are united for some distance above the root of the nose, but are separated by an angular interval superiorly. The epicranial or occipitofrontal aponeurosis extends over the upper surface of the cranium uniformly from side to side, without EPICRANIAL REGION.