OPHTHALMIC ARTEC,'Y. 383 oblique ancl internal rectus muscles, and ends opposite the internal angular process of the frontal bone by dividing into the nasal and frontal arteries. Branches.—(«) The lachrymal artery, arising on the outer side of the optic nerve, passes forwards along the upper border of the external rectus muscle to the lachrymal gland, in' which the greater number of its branches are distributed. Some-of the branches pass onwards to the eyelids and conjunctiva, joining with other palpebral branches ; and one or two delicate malar branches pierce the malar bone and reach the temporal fossa, where they join branches from, the deep temporal arteries. The lachrymal artery has also branches of communication through the sphenoidal fissure with small offsets from the middle meningeal artery. (b) The central artery of the retina, a small vessel, pierces the sheath and substance of the optic nerve about a quarter of an inch behind its junction with the eyeball, and runs imbedded within it to the retina, in which it ramifies. (See description of the eye in Yol. II.) (,c) The supraorbital branch, arising as the artery crosses the optic nerve, ascends above the muscles, courses forwards to the supraorbital notch, in company with the frontal nerve, and terminates on the forehead. It distributes branches to the eyelids, and communicates with the super- ficial temporal and frontal arteries. (d) The ciliary arteries are divided into two sets, posterior and anterior. The posterior are four- or five small vessels which divide into numerous branches (fifteen to twenty) as they pass forwards, surrounding the optic nerve, to reach the back of the eyeball. Piercing the sclerotic coat near the entrance of the optic nerve, the greater number (short ciliary arteries) pass at once into the choroid coat; but two, which are somewhat larger than the others, extend forwards, one on each side of the eye, between the sclerotic and choroid coats to the ciliary muscle and iris, and are distinguished as the long ciliary arteries. The anterior ciliary arteries, six to eight, are derived from the muscular and lachrymal branches ; they form a vascular ring beneath the conjunctiva at the fore part of the eyeball, and then pierce the sclerotic within a line or two of the margin of the cornea. The mode of distribution of these arteries within the eyeball is described in the account of the anatomy of the eye in Yol. II. (e) Small muscular offsets arise at uncertain intervals from the trunk of the artery, as well as from the lachrymal and supraorbital branches ; in addition to these there are two more regular branches, a superior, which is distributed to the upper and inner muscles of the orbit, and an inferior, larger and more constant, to the lower and outer muscles. (/) The ethmoidal arteries are two in number, a posterior and an anterior. The posterior enters the posterior internal orbital canal and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the posterior ethmoidal cells and upper part of the nose. The anterior is larger and passes with the nasal nerve into the cranial cavity where it gives off small anterior meningeal branches to the dura mater in the anterior fossa, and then descends into the nose (anterior nasal artery). It supplies the mucous membrane of the fore part of the nasal fossa, frontal sinus and anterior ethmoidal cells, and one small twig accompanies the termination of the nasal nerve to the skin of the nose. (g) The two palpebral branches, superior and inferior, arise near the front of the orbit, usually together, but soon diverge, one lying above, the other below the internal tarsal ligament. They send small branches to