ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. 1G6 capsular ligament relaxed ; 11, shaft The sacro-iliac articulation is formed between the auricular surfaces of the sacrum and ilium, which are covered each with a layer of cartilage, that on the sacrum being the thicker, and closely applied to- gether, but are not usually directly united. In some cases, however, the two surfaces are connected in part of their extent by fine transverse fibres; whilst on the other hand, it not unfrequently happens, especially in advanced life, that the surfaces become rough and irregular, and are separated by small spaces containing glairy fluid. The bones are united by anterior and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and the articulation re- ceives additional support from the great and small sacro-sciatic ligaments. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of thin irregular fibres passing between the sacrum and hip-bone on their iliac and pelvic surfaces. The posterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a large number of strong irregular fibres extending from the rough space above the auricular surface of the ilium, downwards and inwards to the depressions on the back of the lateral mass of the sacrum. A superficial band, passing nearly vertically downwards from the posterior superior iliac spine to the third and fourth pieces of the sacrum, is distinguished as the long or obliqve sacro-iliac ligament. The sacro-sciatic ligaments.—The posterior or great sacro- sciatic ligament, broad and triangular, assists in bounding the lower aperture of the pelvis. Its base is attached to the posterior inferior iliac spine and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; whilst its apex is fixed Fig. 141.—Right half of a female PELVIS, SEEN FROM THE INNER SIDE. (A. T.) f 1, supraspinous ligament descend- ing to the sacrum from 2, 2, the lumbar spinous processes ; 3, 4, lumbar and sacral spinal canal ; 5, placed on the ilium above the anterior sacro-iliac ligament ; 6, placed in the great sacro- sciatic foramen, points to the small sacro-sciatic ligament; 7, great sacro- sciatic ligament, with 7', its falciform process ; 8, aperture where a portion, of the wall of the cotyloid cavity has been removed, so as to give a view from the inside of the head of the femur ; 9, interarticular ligament put upon the stretch, the femur being partially flexed and adducted ; 10, inner part of the of the femur. along the inner margin of the ischial tuberosity, where it ex- pands somewhat, and sends for- wards along the margin of the ischial ramus a falciform process, the border of which is continuous with, and forms the inferior attachment of, the obturator fascia. Some of the superficial fibres of the ligament are continued over the tuberosity into the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle. The anterior or small sacro-sciatic ligament, much shorter and Fig. 141.