COMMON ILIAC VEINS. 619 The hcpatio veins have been seen forming1 a trunk which opened independently into the right auricle (Hyrtl) ; and a single hepatic vein has been found to end in this way (Kadyi), or in the left auricle (Breschet), or in the right ventricle of the heart, where its orifice was guarded by a valve (Rothe). COMMON ILIAC VEINS. The common iliac veins are formed on each side by the confluence of the external and internal iliac veins. Extending from the base of the sacrum upwards to near the junction of the fifth with the fourth lumbar vertebra, at a point a little to the right of the middle line, the two common iliac veins unite to form the inferior vena cava. The right vein is shorter than the left, and is nearly vertical in its direction. The right vein is placed behind, and then to the outer side of its artery ; while the left vein is to the inner side of the left common iliac artery, and then passes behind the right. These veins are usually destitute of valves, but in a few instances one has been met with (Friedreich). Lateral tributaries.—The ilio-lumbar vein collects branches from the hinder part of the abdominal wall, from the muscles of the back, and from the spinal canal, and emerges from beneath the psoas muscle to enter the lower part of the common iliac vein. It communi- cates above with the lumbar, and below with the lateral sacral veins. The middle sacral veins, two in number, ascend on the front of the sacrum with the middle sacral artery, and join above into a single vessel which opens into the left common iliac, or occasionally into the angle of union of the two large veins. They anastomose freely with the lateral sacral veins, and by smaller branches with the veins of the rectum. Varieties.—The common iliac vein is sometimes divided into two vessels for a portion of its extent. Absence of the common iliac vein of one or both sides has been met with by Gruber, the left external and internal iliac veins in one instance being continued upwards to enter the commencement of the inferior cava, and in another the two internal iliac veins being joined into a common trunk which unites with the right and left external iliac veins to form the vena cava (Virchow’s Archiv., liv., 190). VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB AND PELVIS. The veins of the lower limb are divisible into two sets, those of the one being deeply seated, those of the other running in the superficial fascia. All the veins of the lower limb are provided with valves, and these are more numerous than in the veins of the upper limb. The deep veins have more valves than the subcutaneous set. SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Immediately beneath the integument on the dorsum of the foot there exists a network of veins receiving the branches from the toes and forming a more or less regular arch, from which issue two principal trunks, named the internal or long, and the external or short saphenous veins. The internal or long saphenous vein extends from the ankle to within an inch and a half of Poupart’s ligament. Taking rise from the inner part of the plexus on the dorsum of the foot, it passes upwards in front of the inner ankle, and then behind the inner border of the tibia,