287 MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. OP THE SKULL AND PACE, FROM BEHIND, Fig. 199. Relations.—The internal maxillary artery is usually placed on the outer surface of this muscle, passing' thence between the heads of origin ; while the buccal nerve issues from between those heads. The deep surface rests against the upper part of the internal pterygoid muscle, the direction of which it crosses, also the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, the inferior maxillary nerve, and the middle meningeal artery. The upper border is crossed by the deep temporal and masseteric nerves. Varieties.—The pterygoideus proprim (Henle) is a nearly vertical band of muscular and tendinous fibres, sometimes entirely tendinous, passing from the infratemporal crest of the great wing of the sphenoid, over the surface of the external pterygoid muscle, to the lower part of the outer pterygoid plate, or to the tuberosity of the palate or superior maxillary bone. It has been seen sending a slip to the pterygo-maxillary ligament, or even to the lower jaw. Pterygo-spinosus (G.D.T.)—This name may be given to a muscular slip occasion- ally seen, springing from the spine of the sphenoid, and inserted into the hinder margin of the outer pterygoid plate, between the external and internal pterygoid muscles. A fibrous band connecting these parts (pterygo-spinous ligament') is frequently present, and is sometimes converted into bone (cf. p. 45). Fig. 199.—View op the lower part TO SHOW THE ATTACHMENTS OP THE PTERYGOID AND SOME OTHER MUSCLES (modified from Bourgery). (A. T.) J a, body of the sphenoid, below which are seen the posterior nares; b, section through the temporal bone; c, hard palate ; d, back of the head and neck of the lower jaw, above which are seen the synovial cavities of the joint separated by the interarticular fibro-cartilage; e, placed below the symphysis menti ; 1, on the left internal pterygoid muscle ; 1', on the right side, the lower part of the same muscle, of which the middle portion has been removed to show the external ptery- goid ; 2, the lower head of the external pterygoid; 2', on the right side points to the upper head of the muscle, attached in part to the interarticular disc ; 3, small portions of the genio-hyoid and genio-glossus muscles cut short at their attachment to the mental spines ; 4, the attachment of the mylo-hyoid cut short; 5, the attachment of the anterior belly of the digastric ; 6, C, masseter muscles. Nerves.—The four muscles above described receive their nerves from the muscular branches of the inferior maxillary which may be traced to the small or motor root of the fifth nerve. These nerves are named from the muscles they respectively supply. There are two or three branches to the temporal, and one to each of the other muscles. Actions.—The masseter, temporal and internal pterygoid muscles are elevators of the lower jaw, and generally act in concert, bringing the lower teeth forcibly into contact with the upper. The opposite movement of depressing the jaw, not being opposed by any resisting obstacle, requires less force, and is effected by muscles of much smaller size, the principal of which is the digastric muscle hereafter described. The external pterygoid muscle, having the great body of its fibres nearly horizontal, draws forwards the condyle of the jaw, and, when the muscles of both sides act together, the lower jaw is protruded so as to make the lower incisor teeth project beyond the upper; but their more usual mode of action is alternately on the two sides, as in the grinding movement of the molar teeth, in which the horizontal movements of the external pterygoids are associated with the elevating actions of the other muscles. The hinder portion of the temporal muscle retracts the jaw, and is thus the antagonist of the external pterygoid.