167 THE SYMPHYSIS PUEIS. thinner than the preceding, in front of which jit lies, is also triangular in form, and is attached by its base to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, where its fibres are blended with those of the great ligament; and by its apex to the spine of the ischium. The deep surface of this ligament is blended with the coccygeus muscle. Foramina. Between the upper border of the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the innominate bone, is a large space subdivided by the small sacro-sciatic ligament. The part which lies above this ligament is named the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It transmits the pyriformis muscle and the gluteal, sciatic, and pudic vessels and nerves. The part between the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments, much smaller and bounded in front by the smooth surface between the spine and tuberosity of the ischium, is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, through which pass the obturator interims muscle and the pudic vessels and nerve. The pubic articulation, or symphysis pubis, is the connection of the pubic bones in front, and is effected by an interpubic disc and ligaments. The interpubic disc consists of a layer of cartilage on each side, closely adherent to the bony surfaces, and an intermediate stratum of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage. The intermediate layer is thicker in front than behind, and generally contains a fissure towards the upper and back part, which sometimes extends through the whole depth of the articula- tion. The ligaments are named anterior,posterior, superior, and inferior. The anterior pubic ligament consists of irregular fibres passing obliquely across from bone to bone in front of the symphysis. The superior and posterior ligaments consist of only a few fibres on the upper and back parts of the articulation. The inferior or subpubic ligament, thick and triangular, is attached to the rami of the pubic bones, giving smoothness and roundness to the subpubic angle, and forming part of the outlet of the pelvis. The fissure in the interpubic disc appears to be formed during' life by the softening and absorption of the fibro-cartilage. It is not found before the seventh year, it increases in extent with advancing age, and is more constant and of larger size in the female than in the male (Aeby). Its greater development in the female sex may be in part due to the pressure exerted upon the joints of the pelvis during parturition, but it is not a regular accompaniment or a direct consequence of pregnancy. The obturator membrane, or ligament, is a fibrous septum attached to the border of the thyroid foramen, which it closes, except at the upper and outer part of its circumference, where a small oval canal is left for the obturator vessels and nerve. The membrane is fixed accurately to the bony margin at the upper and outer sides of the foramen, and to the posterior surface at the inner side. The obturator muscles are attached to its surfaces. Movements.—In ordinary circumstances there is very little movement allowed between the bones of the pelvis. In the erect posture the sacrum is thrown so much backwards that none of the advantage of the key-stone of an arch is obtained by the tapering of its form from base to apex. It is only by the sinuosities of its auricular surfaces that it directly presses on the hip-bones ; and as the width of the bone rather diminishes at the upper part, the principal strain is borne by the posterior sacro-iliao ligaments, from which the sacrum is in great measure suspended (see fig. 142). The space which might be gained by the small amount of movement which is allowed between the bones of the pelvis in the ordinary state is increased dining parturition in this way, that the fore part