240 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. The hamstring muscles descend for the greatest part of their length in contact with one another, being bound down by the fascia lata; but interiorly they diverge, the biceps passing to the outside, and the semimembranosus and semi- tendinosus to the inner side of the knee, forming the superior borders of a diamond-shaped hollow at the back of the knee —the popliteal space—the inferior margins of which are formed by the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. Varieties.—Absence of the semimembranosus muscle has been observed. It has also been found double, or with its origin for the most part from the great sacro- sciatic ligament. Nerves.—These muscles are all supplied by the great sciatic nerve. Actions.—The hamstring muscles flex the knee, and when that joint is bent they can rotate the tibia—the biceps outwards, the semitendinosus and, to a less extent, the semimembranosus inwards. They are farther powerful extensors of the hip, and by their position they set a limit to flexion of that joint so long as the knee is extended. ANTERIOR MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. The ilio-psoas muscle, the great flexor of the hip-joint, is divisible into two parts, a broad outer part, the iliacus, and an elongated inner part, the psoas magnus, which are sometimes described separately as two muscles. The greater part of the muscle is situated in the abdomen, only the lower conjoined portion appearing below Poupart’s ligament in the thigh. Its action, however, being almost exclusively upon the hip- joint, it is most conveniently considered in this place. The iliacus arises from the upper half of the iliac fossa of the hip-bone, anteriorly reaching down to the inferior spine, and posteriorly receiving a few fibres also from the ala of the sacrum and the ligament connecting the two bones. Its fibres converge as they pass downwards and inwards and are inserted for the most part into the tendon of the psoas; the outermost, however, pass directly to a special triangular surface on the upper part of the femur, in front of and below the small trochanter. The psoas magnus arises by five fleshy slips from the anterior surface and lower margin of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; also from the bodies of the vertebrae by a series of thick processes, each of which takes origin from an intervertebral disc, and from the contiguous margins of two bodies, the highest being attached to the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and the lowest to the fourth and fifth lumbar ver- tebrae with the intervertebral substance between them. These attach- ments are connected by thin tendinous arches extending over the middle of each vertebra, covering the lumbar vessels and communicating branches of the sympathetic nerve, and giving origin to other muscular fibres. The various bundles of fibres speedily unite to form a thick elongated muscle, which runs along the brim of the pelvis, and emerging from the abdomen beneath Poupart’s ligament is inserted into the small trochanter of the femur by means of a tendon, which is placed at first within the substance of the muscle, and afterwards at its outer side, receiving as it descends the fibres of the iliacus as well as those of the psoas. Eolations.—Both iliacus and psoas are covered in the abdomen by the iliac fascia, which is also prolonged downwards over the conjoined muscle into the upper part of the thigh, where it becomes continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The psoas at its upper extremity is placed behind the diaphragm, being crossed by the internal arched ligament. The external iliac artery rests against its inner border along the brim of the pelvis, but lies over the muscle as it enters the thigh. The lumbar plexus of nerves is imbedded deeply in the substance of the psoas, and its branches issue from the muscle at various points. The anterior