81 VARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL, Occipital point (0).—The point of the occiput in the mesial plane most re- moved from the Ophryon. Inion (I).—The external occipital protuberance. Opisthion.—The middle of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum. Pasion (B).—The middle of the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. Pterion (Pt.).—The region, near the anterior part of the temporal fossa, where the great wing of the sphenoid, the squamous, the parietal and the frontal Fig. 66. Fig. 66.—Side view of skull of a male Australian. (After Flower.) A, alveolar point ; S, subnasal point; N, nasion ; Op, ophryon ; Bg, bregma ; Ob, obelion ; L, lambda ; 0, occipital point; I, inion ; B, basion ; Ft, pterion ; St, stephanion; As, asterion ; Op 0, length of cranium ; B N, basinasal length; B A, basialveolar length ; N S, nasal height. hones approach each other, the exact disposition, however, varying in different individuals. In the most common condition the parietal and great wing of the sphenoid meet and form a short horizontal suture (p. 58), but it sometimes happens that these two bones are separated by the junction of the frontal and squamous, giving rise to a vertical fronto-temporal suture, usually continuing the line of the coronal suture. The latter form is especially frequent in some of the lower races of mankind, and is the usual condition in the gorilla and chimpanzee. There is often a small Wormian bone in this situation, epiptcric bone of Flower, and many cases of the occurrence of a fronto-temporal suture are attributable to the union of this piece of bone with the squamous or frontal. Stephanion (St.).—The point where the coronal suture crosses the temporal line. Asterion (As.).—The point where the lambdoid, parieto-mastoid and occipito- mastoid sutures meet. When a separate interparietal bone is present the suture dividing it from the supraoccipital runs transversely from asterion to asterion, which will in that case be the meeting point of four sutures. Auricular point.—The centre of the orifice of the external auditory meatus. The chief measurements of the cranium are the circumference, the length, breadth, and height. Of these the first is stated absolutely, while the others are expressed relatively, i.e., the proportion of the breadth and height respectively to the length, such mode of expression being known as an index, VOL. i. G