MALE SKULL AT ABOUT EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. THE ORBITS. Fig. 49. 59 Below the nasal bones is the anterior nasal aperture, of an inverted heart shape: its thin margin gives attachment to the nasal cartilages, and projects forwards in the middle line below as the anterior nasal spine. Below the nasal aperture are the incisor fossoe of the upper jaw; below the orbits are the canine fossae; and external to the canine fossae are the prominences of the cheeks, formed by the anterior inferior parts of the malar bones. The lower jaw completes the skeleton of the face. The foramina in this region, on each side, are the supraorbital foramen or notch in the superior margin of the orbit, the infraorbital foramen below the inferior margin of the orbit, the mental foramen of the lower jaw, and the small malar canal of the malar bone. Fig. 49.—Front view of TWENTY YEARS. (A. T.) J 1, frontal eminence ; 2, glabella, between the super- ciliary ridges, and above the transverse suture of union with the nasal and superior maxillary bones ; 3, orbital arch near the supraorbital notch ; 4, orbital surface of the great wing of the sphe- noid, between the sphenoidal and the spheno-maxillary fissures; 5, anterior nasal aperture, within which are seen in shadow the vomer and the turbinate bones ; 6, superior maxillary bone at the canine fossa—above the figure is the infraorbital foramen ; 7, incisor fossa ; 8, malar bone ; 9, symphy- sis of lower jaw; 10, men- tal foramen; 11, vertex, near the coronal suture ; 12, temporal fossa; 13, zygoma; 14, mastoid process; 15, angle of the jaw; 16, mental prominence. In this skull there are fourteen teeth in each jaw, the wisdom teeth not having yet appeared. The orbits are pyramidal fossae, irregularly quadrilateral, with their bases directed forwards and slightly outwards, their inner walls being nearly parallel, and their outer walls diverging so as to be nearly at right angles to each other. The roof of each orbit is formed by the orbital plate of the frontal and the small wing of the sphenoid; the floor by the malar and superior maxillary bones, and by the small orbital surface of the palate bone at the back part; the inner wall by the nasal process of the superior maxilla, the lachrymal, the ethmoid and body of the sphenoid; and the outer wall by the orbital surfaces of the malar bone and great wing of the sphenoid. The sphenoidal fissure (foramen lacerum orbitale) at its inner extremity occupies the apex of the orbit, while its outer and