VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 10 pedicles are named notches, and constitute by the apposition of those of contiguous vertebrae, the intervertebral foramina, a series of rounded apertures, which communicate with the vertebral canal, and transmit the spinal nerves and blood vessels. The spinous process (neural spine) projects backwards from the arch in the middle line. The transverse processes, placed one on each side, project outwards from the arch at the junction of the pedicle with the lamina. The articular processes (zygapophyses), two superior and two inferior, project upwards and downwards opposite the attachment of the transverse processes ; their articular surfaces, coated with cartilage, in the superior pair look backwards, and in the inferior forwards, so that the former face the latter in adjoining vertebrae. The foramen is bounded anteriorly by the body, posteriorly and later- ally by the arch. The series of rings thus formed, united by ligaments, constitutes the spinal or neural canal, which lodges the spinal cord. Texture.—The bodies of the vertebrae are almost entirely composed of spongy substance, the principal lamellae being vertical; on the surface is a thin layer of compact tissue. Venous canals, commencing at the larger foramina behind, traverse the cancellated structure. The arch and processes contain a much smaller proportion of spongy substance, being covered with compact tissue of considerable density in some places. GROUPS OP VERTEBRiE. The vertebrae are divided into five groups, named from the regions which they occupy, cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. Cervical Vertebrae.—These are seven in number ; they are the smallest of the moveable vertebrae, and are specially characterized by the presence of foramina in the transverse processes. The first and second are so peculiar in form, as to require a separate description. The following are the common characters of a cervical vertebra. Fig. 5.—Third cervical vertebra. (A. T.) i A, from above and slightly from behind ; B, from the side. 1, body; 3, lamina; 4, spinal foramen; 5, spinous process ; 6, posterior, 6*, anterior tubercle of transverse process ; a, foramen in the transverse process transmitting the vertebral artery ; behind a, the pedicle and intervertebral notch ; 7, superior, 7', inferior articular process. The body is small and much broader from side to side than from before backwards ; in depth nearly the same in front and behind. Its upper surface is transversely concave from the upward projection of its lateral margins, and is sloped down anteriorly. The under surface on the contrary is rounded off at the sides, while its anterior margin forms a marked projection downwards. The pedicles spring from the body midway between the upper and lower borders, and are directed outwards and backwards : the laminae are long and flat. The superior and inferior notches are nearly equal in depth. The spinous process is short, only slightly depressed, and bifid.