503 SINUSES OF THE CRANIUM. formed by the straight sinus passing into the lateral sinus of the opposite side. The inferior longitudinal sinus (fig. 290, 2) is very small, and has so much of a cylindrical form that it is sometimes named inferior longitudinal vein. It passes backwards in the posterior half or more of the lower border of the falx cerebri, and opens into the straight sinus on reaching the anterior margin of the tentorium. It receives branches from the falx, and sometimes from the mesial surface of the hemispheres. The straight sinus (s. tentorii) (fig. 290, 2-3), continuous with the foregoing, is also joined at its commencement by the vena magna Galeni from the interior of the cerebrum. It runs backwards and downwards, along the junction of the falx cerebri and the tentorium, to the internal occipital protuberance, where it is connected by a cross branch, generally of small size, with the torcular Herophili, but is mainly continued into the lateral sinus of the opposite side to that into which the superior longitudinal sinus is prolonged. The straight sinus receives in its course some superior cerebellar veins, and small branches from the tentorium. The lateral sinuses commence at the internal occipital protuberance and terminate on each side at the jugular foramen in the bulb of the internal jugular vein. The sinuses of the two sides generally differ in size, the one into which the superior longitudinal sinus is prolonged being much larger than that of the opposite side, which is formed by a continuation of the straight sinus. Bach sinus passes outwards in the corresponding lateral groove of the occipital bone, lying in the attached margin of the tentorium, to the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, then curves doAvnwards in the sigmoid groove of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and finally turns forwards over the jugular process of the occipital bone to the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen. It is joined by yeins from the posterior part of the cerebrum, from both surfaces of the cerebellum, and from the diploe, as well as at the point where it turns downwards from the tentorium, by the superior petrosal sinus. Emissary veins passing through the mastoid and posterior condylar foramina connect the lateral sinus with the veins of the exterior of the head. The occipital sinus is a small vessel, generally single, but sometimes double, which is contained in the falx cerebelli. Above, it opens into the torcular Herophili; below, it communicates with the posterior spinal veins, and is usually continued forwards on one or both sides of the foramen magnum to join the lower end of the lateral sinus. It receives one or two small veins from the cerebellum. The cavernous sinuses, placed one on each side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and extending from the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure to the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone, are of con- siderable size and of very irregular form. Their cavity is traversed by numerous interlacing filaments, which give rise to a structure resembling that of cavernous tissue, and from this circumstance they derive then- name. Enclosed in the outer wall of each are the third, the fourth and the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerves as they pass forwards to the sphenoidal fissure, and lying along the floor of the sinus, covered only by its thin lining membrane, are the internal carotid artery, the sixth nerve and a plexus of the sympathetic. Each sinus receives the ophthalmic veins anteriorly, and communicates internally by means of the circular