VEINS OF THE SPINE. 515 left superior intercostal and upper azygos veins are sometimes represented by a single vessel, which may join either the corresponding innominate vein above, or the large azygos vein below. Occasionally all the intercostal veins of the left side are collected into a longitudinal trunk which terminates in the left innominate vein, the arrangement corresponding to that on the right side ; and, on the other hand, instances are sometimes met with in which there is only a single azygos vein ascending on the front of the spine and receiving- the inter- costal veins of both sides. Transposition of the azygos veins is recorded by Gruber, the larger vessel being placed on the left side, receiving the smaller right veins, and then arching forwards over the root of the left lung to open into the left end of the coronary sinus of the heart, thus resembling the condition which is normal in the sheep and some other animals. The foregoing varieties are readily explained by reference to the mode of development of these vessels (see Vol. II). In several cases the inferior vena cava has been seen continued into the azygos vein, which is then of course extremely large (see varieties of the inferior cava), and the spermatic vein or, on the left side, the renal and suprarenal veins have also been observed terminating in the same manner. VEINS OF THE SPINE. The veins of the spine form plexuses extending along- the whole length of the column, and may be divided into the following sets : 1, the dorsal, placed deeply in the vertebral grooves ; 2, the veins of the bodies of the vertebrae; 8, the anterior longitudinal, lying within the canal at the back of the bodies of the vertebra ; 4, the posterior longitudinal, also situated within the canal, along the fore part of the arches of the vertebra ; and 5, the veins of the spinal cord. There are likewise branches of communication, some of which unite the several sets with one another, while others bring them into connection with the general venous system. The veins of the spine have no valves. (See Breschet, “Les Yeines du Rachis,” and “Le Systeme Veineux,” Paris, 1829 ; Cloquet, “Anatomic descriptive,” &c.) The dorsal spinal veins are derived from the muscles and integu- ment of the back, and form a plexus over the arches of the vertebrae. The largest tributaries pass forwards by the side of the interspinous liga- ments, proceeding in many cases from a median longitudinal vessel placed over the spinous processes of several vertebrae. Offsets from the plexus perforate the ligamenta subflava to join the posterior longitudinal veins within the spinal canal, and at the outer part of the vertebral groove other veins are given off, which pass forwards between the trans- verse processes and open into the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar veins, or in the neck, where the plexus is most developed, into the vertebral vein. The veins of the bodies of the vertebrae are comparatively large vessels contained in the canals within these bones, the arteries which accompany them being very small. They anastomose on the front of the vertebra with the veins in that situation, and the trunk of each, having reached the spinal canal through the single or double foramen on the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra, opens into the corresponding transverse branch uniting the anterior longitudinal veins. The anterior longitudinal spinal veins are two large plexiform vessels which extend the whole length of the spinal canal, lying bejiind the bodies of the vertebra, one along each edge of the posterior common ligament. These vessels are dilated opposite the bodies of the vertebra, whore the right and left veins are connected by large transverse branches L T, 2