SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 561 near the infraorbital foramen, it descends in its canal in the front wall of the antrum, and divides into dental branches for the incisor and canine teeth, and a nasal branch, which supplies the pituitary membrane in the fore part of the inferior meatus and the adjoining part of the floor of the nasal fossa. Fig. 320. Fig. 320.—Deep view of the superior iiaxjllary nerve and the sphenopalatine ganglion, &c. (from Sappey, after Uirselifeld and Leveille). g 1, superior maxillary nerve ; 2, posterior superior dental; 3, middle superior dental; 4, anterior superior dental; 5, superior dental plexus; 6, spheno-palatine ganglion; 7, Vidian nerve ; 8, its great superficial petrosal branch ; 9, its great deej) petrosal branch ; 10, a part of the sixth nerve, receiving twigs from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; 11, superior cervical sympathetic ganglion ; 12, its ascending branch ; 13, facial nerve ; 14, glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; 15, its tympanic branch ; 16, twig joining the sympathetic ; 17, filament to the fenestra rotunda ; 18, filament to the Eustachian tube ; 19, filament to the fenestra ovalis ; 20, small superficial petrosal nerve. The three dental nerves communicate so as to form loops with one another while they are contained in their bony canals, and from these loops other branches spring, which join again and give rise to a plexus {superior dental plexus) from which the minute terminal filaments proceed to the teeth and gum. Facial branches.—The facial branches are divisible into palpebral, nasal, and labial sets. The inferior palpebral branches, generally an inner and an outer, ascend from the termination of the infraorbital nerve to supply the skin and conjunctiva of the lower eyelid in its whole breadth. The lateral nasal branches, two or three in number, are directed inwards between the fibres of the levator labii superioris akeque nasi muscle to the skin of the side of the nose. The suoerior labial branches, the largest of the terminal offsets of the superior maxillary nerve, and three or four in number, pass downwards between the elevator muscles of the upper lip and of the angle of the mouth. Ramifying as they descend, and giving off branches to supply the integument of the fore part of the cheek, they end in the skin and mucous membrane of the upper lip. Below the orbit, the terminal branches of the superior maxillary nerve are joined by considerable branches of the facial nerve, the union between the two being named the infraorbital plexus. VOL. i. o o