SUPRARENAL AND RENAL ARTERIES. 443 intestine towards the lower end. About five inches from the anus these subdivide each into three or four branches which pierce the muscular coat some two inches lower down. In the wall of the intestine, these arteries, placed at regular distances from each other, descend between the mucous and muscular coats to the end of the gut, where they communi- cate in loops opposite the internal sphincter, and anastomose with the middle and inferior hgemorrhoidal arteries. Varieties.—Absence of the inferior mesenteric artery has been met with, its branches being given off by the superior mesenteric. It has also been found giving origin to the middle colic artery, and accessory branches to the liver and kidneys. A middle mesenteric artery, arising from the common iliac and supplying vessels to the transverse and descending colon, has been seen by Hyrtl (“ Lehrbuch,” 14th Ed., p. 1004). Anastomoses on the alimentary canal.—The arteries distributed to the alimentary canal communicate freely with each other over the whole length of that tube. The arteries of the great intestine, derived from the two mesenteric trunks, form a series of vascrdar arches along the colon and rectum, at the lower end of which they anastomose with the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries, given off from the internal iliac and pudic arteries. The branches from the left side of the superior mesenteric form another series of arches along the small intestine, which is connected with the former by the ileo-colic artery. Farther, the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric joins upon the duodenum with the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery. The latter is derived from the same source as the pyloric artery ; and so likewise, through the coronary artery of the stomach and its ascending branches, a similar connection is formed with the oesophageal arteries, even up to the pharynx. The middle suprarenal or capsular arteries (vi) are two very small vessels which arise from the aorta ou a level with the superior mesenteric artery, and pass obliquely outwards upon the crura of the diaphragm to reach the suprarenal capsules, to which bodies they are distributed, anastomosing at the same time with the upper and lower suprarenal branches derived respectively from the phrenic and the renal arteries. In the foetus these arteries are relatively of large size. Varieties.—This artery is often very small, its place being supplied by the superior and inferior suprarenals. The middle suprarenal sometimes gives off the spermatic artery, more frequently on the left than on the right side. The renal or eniulgent arteries (ii), of large size in proportion to the bulk of the organs which they supply, arise from the sides of the aorta, about half an inch below the, superior mesenteric artery, that of the right side being generally a little lower down than that of the left. Each is directed outwards so as to form nearly a right angle with the aorta. In consequence of the position of the aorta upon the spine, the right renal artery has to run a somewhat longer course than the left, and it also crosses behind the inferior vena cava. Both right and left arteries are overlapped by the accompanying renal veins. Before reaching the hilus of the kidney, each artery divides into four or five branches, the greater number of which usually lie between the vein in front and the pelvis of the ureter behind. These branches, after having passed deeply into the sinus of the kidney, subdivide and are distributed in the gland, in the manner described in the account of the structure of that organ. Each renal artery, before entering the hilus of the kidney, furnishes one or two small branches to the suprarenal body (inferior suprarenal