581 PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. laryngeal branches in all probability arises from the extreme shortness or rather absence of the neck in the embryo at first, and from the branchial arterial arches having originally occupied a position at a higher level than the parts in which those branches are ultimately distributed, and having dragged them down as it were in the descent of the heart from the neck to the thorax. The recurrent direction may therefore be accepted as evidence of the development of those nerves before the occurrence of that descent. The passage of one recurrent laryngeal nerve round the subclavian artery, and of the other round the aorta, arises from the originally symmetrical disposition in which the innominate and subclavian arteries on the right side, and the arch of the aorta on the left, are derived from corresponding arches. The supply of the back of the stomach by the right pneumo-gastric nerve, and of the front by the left nerve, is connected with the originally symmetrical condition of the alimentary canal, and the turning over of the stomach on its right side in its subsequent growth. Branches.—Some of the branches of the pneumo-gastric serve to connect this with other nerves, but the larger number are distributed to various parts of the circulatory, respiratory and digestive systems. The Fig. 330.—Diagram op the roots AND ANASTOMOSING BRANCHES OF THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC AND NEIGH- BOURING nerves (from Sappcy, after Hirsclifeld and Leveille). 1, facial nerve ; 2, glosso-pharyn- geal with the petrous ganglion ; 2', connection of the digastric branch of the facial nerve with the glosso- pharyngeal nerve; 3, pneumo- gastric, with its two ganglia ; 4, spinal accessory; 5, hypoglossal ; 6, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; 7, 7, loop of union between the first two cervical nerves ; 7, carotid branch of the sympathetic; 9, nerve of Jacobson (tympanic), given off from the petrous ganglion; 10, its filaments to the sympathetic ; 11, twig to the Eustachian tube; 12, twig to the fenestra ovalis; 13, twig to the fenestra rotunda ; 14, small superficial petrosal nerve ; 15, large superficial petrosal nerve; 16, otic ganglion; 17, auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric; 18, connection of the spinal accessory with the pneumo-gastric; 19, union of the hypoglossal with the first cervical nerve; 20, union between the sterno-mastoid branch of the spinal accessory and that of the second cervical nerve; 21, pharyn- geal plexus; 22, superior laryngeal nerve ; 23, external laryngeal; 24, middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Fig. 330. special connecting branches arise from the two ganglia of the nerve. The branches of distribution arise from the nerve in the several stages of its course as follows :—In the jugular foramen, a small branch is given to the dura mater, and another to the ear ; in the neck, branches are