THE PHALANGES.—BONES OF THE FOOT AS A WHOLE. 123 it. Thz fifth articulates by its base with the cuboid, and internally with the fourth metatarsal bone, while externally it projects in a large rough tuberosity, into which the peroneus brevis muscle is inserted. THE PHALANGES. The phalanges of the toes correspond so nearly in general conforma- tion with those of the fingers that it will only be necessary in this place to state the points in which they differ from the latter. The phalanges of the four outer toes are much smaller than the corresponding phalanges of the hand ; but those of the great toe are larger than those of the thumb. The shafts of the first row of pha- langes in the four outer toes are compressed laterally and narrowed in the middle ; those of the second row, more especially the fourth and fifth, are very short, their length scarcely exceeding their breadth. The last two phalanges of the little toe are in adults not unfrequently con- nected by bone into one piece. Sesamoid Bones.—Two sesamoid bones, developed in the tendons of the flexor brevis hallucis, lie side by side in the plantar wall of the first metatarsophalangeal joint, and glide in the grooves on the head of the first metatarsal bone. Small sesamoid bones sometimes occur in the corresponding joints of the other toes. THE BONES OP THE FOOT AS A WHOLE. The foot is narrowest at the heel, and as it passes forwards becomes broader as far as the heads of the metatarsal bones. The posterior ex- tremity of the calcaneum is inclined slightly inwards. The astragalus, overhanging the sustentaculum tali, inclines inwards from the calcaneum so much that its external superior border is directly over the middle line of the calcaneum, and hence the internal malleolus appears more prominent than the external. The foot is arched from behind forwards, the posterior pier of the arch being formed by the heel, the anterior by the balls of the toes. The arch, indeed, may be considered as double in front, Avith a common support behind. The internal division of the arch is that which bears the greater part of the weight of the body, and is most raised from the ground ; it consists of the posterior two-thirds of the calcaneum, the navicular and cuneiform bones, and the three inner toes; the outer arch is formed by the calcaneum in its AA’hole length, the cuboid boue, and the fourth and fifth toes. Besides being- arched longitudinally, the foot presents likewise a transverse arch, formed behind by the cuboid and three cuneiform bones, and in front by the metatarsal bones. OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Hip-bone.—The hip-bone is formed from the three principal pieces previously mentioned, viz., the ilium, ischium, and os pubis, and from various others of an epiphysial nature. Ossification commences in the cartilage of the ilium a little later than in other large bones, the deposit of bone beginning above the ilio-sciatic notch in the 8th or 9th week. This is followed by similar deposits in the thick part of the ischium below the acetabulum in the 3rd month, and in the superior ramus of the pubis in the 4th or 6th month. At birth the greater part of the acetabulum, the crest of the ilium, the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, the body and inferior ramus of the pubis are still cartilaginous; ossification, however, from the three primary centres has extended into the margin of the acetabulum.