2C0 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. metatarsal bones, as well as a thin process backwards to the sustentaculum tali. Near its insertion the tendon contains a sesamoid fibro-cartilage, occasionally a bone, as it lies beneath the head of the astragalus. Relations.—The posterior surface of the tibialis posticus is in contact with the long flexors of the toes and the posterior tibial and peroneal vessels, while at the upper end the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards between its at- tachments to the two bones. In the lower part of the leg the muscle crosses obliquely inwards beneath the flexor longus digitorum, and its tendon becomes superficial for a short distance, lying close to the hinder border of the internal malleolus. In the foot it is covered by the abductor hallucis, and it rests against the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament which separates it from the head of the astragalus. Varieties.—These are rare. An additional muscle has been seen occasionally arising from the back of the tibia below the flexor digitorum, and inserted into the capsule of the ankle-joint or into the annular ligament. This is thQ-tensor of the capsule of the ankle-joint of Henle and Linhart, or the tibialis secundus of Bahnsen. Nerves—The gastrocnemius, plantaris and popliteus, are supplied by the internal popliteal nerve. The soleus receives one branch from the internal popliteal nerve and another from the posterior tibial. The flexor longus digi- torum, flexor longus hallucis and tibialis posticus derive their nerves from the posterior tibial. MUSCLES AND FASCIJE OF THE FOOT. Fascial—The fascia of the dorsum of the foot is reduced to a thin membrane prolonged from the anterior annular ligament over the extensor tendons. Beneath it, deeper layers of fascia are placed over the short extensor of the toes and the interosseous muscles. The superficial fascia of the sole resembles that of the palm of the hand. It forms a thick cushion, especially over the bony prominences, and consists mainly of small lobules of fatty tissue bound down by numerous fibrous bands which pass vertically from the skin to the deep fascia. The deep fascia of the sole, or plantar fascia, consists of a cen- tral and two lateral portions, which are marked off from each other by superficial grooves, indicating the position of intermuscular septa. The inner portion, thinner and looser than the others, invests the abductor hallucis, and is continuous round the inner border of the foot with the dorsal fascia and with the lower fibres of the internal annular ligament. The outer part covers the abductor minimi digiti, is much stronger, and forms a particularly thick band between the outer tubercle of the os calcis and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It is continuous round the outer border of the foot with the dorsal fascia, and sends a thin prolon- gation forwards over the insertion of the abductor and the short flexor muscles of the little toe. The central portion is exceedingly strong, and is composed of dense white glistening fibres, the greater number of which run longitudinally from the os calcis to the roots of the toes. It is narrow and thick behind, where it is attached to the inner tubercle of the os calcis, immediately below the origin of the flexor brevis digitorum, with which muscle it is closely connected. It becomes broader and thinner as it extends forwards, and near the heads of the metatarsal bones it divides into five processes, one passing to each of the toes. In the intervals between the processes a thin membrane composed of trans- verse fibres covers the lumbricales muscles and the digital nerves. The