416 ARTERIES OF THE UTTER LIMB. the usual position, the other may be at some distance, as for example, when it passes beneath a supracondylar process of the humerus. At the bend of the elbow, the brachial artery is exposed to the risk of injury during the operation of venesection, for which the median-basilic vein, is commonly selected. This vein lies here in front of the artery, the semilunar fascia being- stretched between them. Instances are known in which the artery has been wounded by the lancet transfixing the vein and fascia, and a communi- cation has thus been established between the vein and artery. On this account the incision into the vein must be made with due care, and indeed the median- cephalic, if of sufficient size, may be selected for the operation. Collateral circulation.—When the brachial artery has been tied in the middle of the arm, the superior profunda branch forms the principal channel through which the circulation is carried on, by means of its anastomoses with the radial recurrent, interosseous recurrent, and anastomotic arteries. If the ligature has been placed on the artery near the elbow, the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries will assist by their communications with the ulnar recurrents. ULNAR ARTERY (III). The ulnar artery, the larger of the two vessels into which the brachial divides, extends along the inner side of the forearm into the palm of the hand, where it forms the superficial palmar arch. In this course it inclines at first downwards and inwards, describing a slight curve, the convexity of which is directed inwards, and passes between the super- ficial and deep layers of muscles; somewhat above the middle of the forearm the artery comes into contact with the ulnar nerve, which was previously separated from it by a considerable interval, and thence descends vertically with the nerve towards the inner border of the palm of the hand. Lying along the radial border of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle, the ulnar artery reaches the outer side of the pisiform bone, where, still accompanied by the nerve, it passes over the cutaneous surface of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist into the palm of the hand. Its disposition in the hand will be separately de- scribed. In the first half of its course through the forearm, the artery is deeply seated, being covered by the muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus, viz., pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis digitorum. From the middle of the forearm it is overlapped by the flexor carpi ulnaris till within an inch of the wrist, where it lies immediately under the fascia. Beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris the artery is also covered by a thin layer of membrane by which it is bound down to the muscle beneath. At first the ulnar artery lies on the insertion of the brachialis anticus, then on the flexor profundus digitorum in the rest of the forearm, and lastly, on the annular ligament of the wrist. Below the point at which it emerges from under the flexor carpi ulnaris, the tendon of that muscle is on its inner or ulnar side. Relation to veins.—The ulnar artery is accompanied by two veins {pence comites) which are united by numerous cross branches. Relation to nerves.—The median nerve lies at first immediately on the inner side of the ulnar arteiy, but being directed down the middle of the forearm it soon passes over the vessel, separated from it at the point of crossing by the deep head of the pronator teres muscle. As the ulnar nerve descends behind the inner condyle of the humerus, it is separated from the ulnar artery by a considerable interval at the upper part of the