373 OCCIPITAL ARTERY. process of the atlas and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Here it turns backwards along the skull, lying in the occipital groove of the temporal bone, internal to the mastoid process and the sterno-mastoid, splenius, trachelo-mastoid and digastric muscles, and resting on the superior oblique and complexus. Lastly, issuing between the cranial attachments of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, it ascends beneath the integument on the back of the head, accompanied by the great occipital nerve, and divides into branches, which are distributed upon the upper and back part of the cranium. While in the neck, the occipital artery crosses over tire internal carotid artery, the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and the internal jugular vein ; and the hypoglossal nerve winds from behind forwards over it at its origin. Branches.—(a) Small muscular offsets to the digastric, stylo-hyoid, splenius, and trachelo-mastoid muscles, and one of larger size to the sterno-mastoid. This sterno-mastoid branch is very constant: arising generally from the occipital artery close to its commencement, but not unfrequently from the trunk of the external carotid, it turns downwards over the loop formed by the hypoglossal nerve, and enters the muscle in company with the spinal accessory nerve. (h) A small twig, the mastoid branch, enters the skull through the mastoid foramen, and ramifies in the diploe and the dura mater. (c) The cervical branch, ramus cervicalis princeps, is distributed to the muscles of the upper and back part of the neck. Descending a short way, this vessel divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The former ramifies beneath the splenius, sending offsets through that muscle to the trapezius ; while the deep branch passes beneath the complexus, and anastomoses with branches of the vertebral artery, and with the deep cervical artery. The size of this branch varies very much. (d) The superficial or cranial branches pursue a tortuous course between the integument and the occipito-frontalis muscle; and in proceeding upwards on the skull they separate into diverging branches, which anastomose freely with one another, as well as with the branches of the opposite artery, of the posterior auricular artery, and of the superficial temporal artery. Varieties.— Origin.—The occipital artery is occasionally derived from the internal carotid, or from the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid —an offset of the subclavian artery. Course.—The occipital artery sometimes passes outside the trachelo-mastoid instead of internal to it. The chief portion of the vessel has been found to pass over the sterno-mastoid muscle, only a small artery being placed in the usual position. In a few instances the artery has been seen to turn backwards below the transverse process of the atlas. Branches.—A posterior meningeal branch is sometimes given from the occipital artery, ascending on the internal jugular vein, and passing through the jugular foramen to ramify in the dura mater of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. The parietal branch (Cruveilhier) is an occasional offset which springs from one of the terminal branches of the occipital artery, and enters the skull by the parietal foramen to be distributed to the surrounding dura mater. The occipital artery sometimes gives origin to the stylo-mastoid branch (normally an offset of the posterior auricular), to the posterior auricular artery, or to the ascending pharyngeal artery. 5. Posterior auricular artery (v).—The posterior auricular artery arises from the external carotid a little higher up than the occipital. It