445 INFERIOR PHRENIC ARTERIES. B.—PARIETAL BRANCHES OP THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. Inferior phrenic arteries (v).—The inferior phrenic or dia- phragmatic arteries are two small vessels, which arise, either separately or by a short common trunk, from the aorta on a level with the upper margin of its orifice in the diaphragm, or from one of the upper branches of the aorta, most frequently the coeliac axis. They soon diverge from each other, and, passing across the crura of the diaphragm, incline upwards and outwards on its under surface, the artery of the left side passing behind the (Esophagus, while that of the right side passes behind the vena cava. Before reaching the central tendon of the diaphragm, each of the arteries divides into two branches, of which one runs forwards to- wards the anterior margin of the thorax, and anastomoses with the corre- sponding artery of the opposite side, and with the superior phrenic and muscuio-phrenic branches of the internal mammary artery, while the other pursues a transverse direction towards the side of the thorax, and com- municates with the terminations of the lower intercostal arteries. Besides supplying the diaphragm, each phrenic artery gives small branches (superior suprarenal) to the suprarenal body of its own side ; the left artery sends some branches to the oesophagus, which anastomose with the other oesophageal arteries ; and the artery of the right side gives some twigs to the upper part of the vena cava. Small offsets pass also to the liver between the layers of the peritoneum, and anastomose with branches of the hepatic artery. Varieties.—The phrenic arteries vary greatly in their mode of origin, but these deviations seem to have little influence on their course and distribution. In the first place they may arise either separately, or by a common trunk; and it would appear that the latter mode of origin is nearly as frequent as the former. When the two arteries are joined at their origin, the common trunk arises most fre- quently from the aorta ; though, sometimes, it springs from the coeliac axis. When arising separately, the phrenic arteries are given off sometimes from the aorta, more frequently from the coeliac axis, and occasionally from the coronary artery of the stomach, or the renal; but it most commonly happens that the artery of the right side is derived from one, and that of the left side from another of these sources. One artery has also been seen arising from the superior mesenteric. In only one out of thirty-six cases observed by R. Quain did these arteries arise as two separate vessels from the abdominal aorta (op. cit. p. 417). An additional phrenic artery, derived from the left hepatic, has been met with (R. Quain, pi. 56, fig. 6). Lumbar arteries (iv-v).—The lumbar arteries resemble the inter- (ostal arteries, not only in then' mode of origin, but also in a great measure in the manner of their distribution. They arise from the back part of the aorta, and are usually five in number on each side. They pass out- wards, the first one over the body of the last dorsal vertebra, while the others rest on the upper four lumbar vertebrae, and soon dip deeply under the psoas muscle. The upper arteries are likewise behind the pillars of the diaphragm ; and those on the right side are covered by the vena cava. At the interval between the transverse processes, each lumbai artery divides into an abdominal and a dorsal branch. Branches.—{a) The abdominal branch runs outwards, generally behind the quadratus lumborum, but that of the first artery passes in front of this muscle with the anterior division of the last dorsal nerve, and a similar position is not unfrequently taken by one or two of the lower