NERVES OF TIIE UPPER LIME. C14 The fourth supplies the second lumbricalis, and divides into collateral branches for the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers. The fifth, the most internal of the digital nerves, is connected by a cross branch with the ulnar nerve, and divides to supply the adjacent sides of the ring and middle fingers. Each digital nerve divides at the end of the finger into two branches, one of which supplies the ball on the fore part of the finger, while the other ramifies in the pulp beneath the nail. Branches pass from each nerve forwards and backwards to the integument of the finger; those passing backwards join the dorsal collateral nerve, and supply mainly the integument over the second and third phalanges. Varieties.-—One or both heads of the median may be double, and the outer head may pass behind, instead of in front of, the axillary artery. The whole nerve is sometimes found passing- behind the brachial artery (p. -ill). Gruber and Walsh have recorded cases in which the nerve entered the forearm over the pronator teres muscle. The median nerve is often connected in the arm with the musculo-cutaneous (p. G10), in the forearm with the ulnar nerve (p. G12). Summary.—The median nerve gives cutaneous branches to the palm, and to three and a half fingers. It supplies the pronator muscles, the flexors of the carpus and the long flexors of the fingers (except the ulnar flexor of the carpus, and part of the deep flexor of the fingers), likewise the outer set of the short muscles of the thumb, and two lumbricales. A great similarity will be observed in the distribution of the median and ulnar nerves. Neither gives any offset in the arm. Together they supply all the muscles of the front of the forearm and in the hand, and together they supply the skin of the palmar surface of the hand, and impart tactile sensibility to all the fingers. Musculo-spiral nerve.—The muscnlo-spiral nerve, the largest offset from the brachial plexus, occupies chiefly the back part of the limb, and supplies nerves to the extensor muscles, as well as to the skin. Arising behind the axillary vessels from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, of which it is the principal continuation and the only branch prolonged into the arm, it soon turns backwards into the musculo-spiral groove, and, accompanied by the superior profunda artery, proceeds along that groove, between the humerus and the triceps muscle, to the outer side of the limb. It then pierces the external intermuscular septum, and descends in the interval between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus muscles to the level of the outer condyle of the humerus, where it ends by dividing into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. Of these, the radial is altogether a cutaneous nerve, while the posterior interosseous is the muscular nerve of the back of the forearm. The branches of the musculo-spiral nerve may be classified according as they arise on the inner side of the humerus, behind that bone, or on the outer side. A. Internal branches. (a) Muscular branches for the inner and long heads of the triceps. That for the inner head gives two or three filaments to the upper part of the muscle, and then descends by the ulnar nerve, to which it is often closely adherent for a part of its course, and enters the lower short fibres of the head. This long filament is named by Krause the ulnar collateral branch. (b) The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, commonly united in origin with the preceding, winds backwards beneath