276 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The pyramidalis nasi, placed over the nasal bone, appears to be a prolongation of the inner part of the frontalis ; its fibres, however, decussate with those of the latter muscle, and are attached to the skin at the lower and mesial part of the forehead. It widens slightly as it descends, and terminates in a tendinous expansion common to it and the compressor naris. The compressor naris, a thin triangular muscle, arises narrow and fleshy from the facial surface of the superior maxillary bone by the side of the anterior nasal aperture ; proceeding forwards and inwards it gradually expands into a thin aponeurosis, which is blended with that of the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, and with the pyramidalis nasi above, being closely attached to the skin of the nose, but only connected by loose areolar tissue to the subjacent cartilages. It is concealed at its origin by the muscle next described. The levator labii superioris alseque nasi, the common elevator of the lip and nose, lies along the side of the nose, extending from the inner margin of the orbit to the upper lip. It arises by a pointed process from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and, as it descends, separates into two fasciculi; one of these, much the smaller, is inserted into the wing of the nose, whilst the other is prolonged to the upper lip, where it is attached to the skin and becomes blended with the orbicularis and the special elevator muscle. It is subcutaneous, except at its origin, where the orbicularis palpebrarum overlaps it a little. Fig. 195.—Muscles of toe side of toe nose and upper lip. (A. T., after Arnold.) § 1, pyramidalis nasi; 2, levator labii superioris alssque nasi; 3, compressor naris ; 4, levator proprius als nasi anterior ; 5, levator proprius alas nasi posterior ; 6, depressor alse nasi; 7, septal origin of orbicularis oris. The depressor alse nasi is a small flat muscle which arises from the incisor fossa of the superior maxilla, and is inserted into the septum and posterior part of the ala of the nose. Some fibres are continued from the outer part of this muscle into the compressor naris. Besides the muscles above described there are other irregular and often indistinct fibres which enlarge the orifice of the nose. Of these the following may be distinguished. The levator proprius alee nasi posterior, or dilatator naris posterior, is attached to the lateral margin of the nasal aperture and the smaller (sesamoid) cartilages of the nose on the one hand, and to the skin on the other. Another set of fibres, the levator proprius alse nasi anterior, or dilatator naris anterior, runs from the cartilage of the aperture of the nose to the skin at the margin of the nostril. The fibres of both of these muscles are very pale and often indistinct. Varieties.—Absence of the pyramidalis has been observed. The compressor naris is sometimes very slightly developed, or even reduced to an aponeurotic condition. The dilators and depressor of the nostril are also subject to considerable variations in strength and in the mode of their attachment. The musculus