120 BONES OE THE LOWER LIMB. a level with its upper surface, and presents interiorly a groove occupied by the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The upper surface presents two articular facets for the astragalus, separated by an oblique groove in which the interosseous ligament is attached ; the anterior facet, often subdivided into two, is placed over the sustentaculum, and is concave ; the other, posterior and external to this, and larger, is convex from behind forwards and outwards : the outer end of the groove is much widened, and at its fore part is a rough surface where the extensor brevis digitorum takes origin. The anterior extremity articulates with the cuboid bone by a surface concave from above, downwards and outwards, and convex in the opposite direction, and internal to this, along the front of the sustentaculum tali, the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament is attached. The under surface, projecting in a rough anterior tubercle, gives attachment to the inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. The ex- ternal surface is on the whole flat, but presents at its fore part a variable ridge, the peroneal spine, separating two slight grooves, the upper for the tendon of the peroneus brevis, the lower for the peroneus longus. The astragalus, or talus, second in size of the tarsal bones, receives the weight of the body from the leg. It articulates with the tibia and fibula above, the os calcis below, and the navicular in front. Its longest Fig. 101.—Right foot viewed from below, showing THE PLANTAR ASPECT. (A. T.) ^ The indications are the same as in the preceding figure ; the middle and external cuneiform bones are not lettered ; the sesamoid bones are not represented ; they will be seen in the view of the articulations of the foot. axis is directed forwards and inwards. Its main part is called the body, the convex anterior ex- tremity is the head, and the grooved part behind this is the neclc. The superior articular surface occupies the whole of the upper aspect- of the body, and sends a prolongation downwards on each of the lateral surfaces of the bone. The middle part, looking upwards to the tibia, is convex from before backwards, broader in front than behind, with its outer margin longer than the inner, and curved, while the inner is straight. The inner lateral part is narrow, sickle-shaped, and articulates with the internal malleolus ; the outer lateral part, much deeper and triangular, articulates with the external malleolus. In- teriorly, there are two smooth surfaces, which articulate with the calcaneum. The posterior of these, the larger, concave from within out- wards and forwards, is separated by a rough depression for the interosseous ligament from the convex anterior surface, which rests on the sustentaculum tali. The rounded surface of the head articulates with the navicular bone, and interiorly, between this and the anterior articu- lation with the os calcis, is a small facet which rests upon the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, the three forming one continuous ar- ticular surface. The posterior border of the bone lies behind the susten- Fig. 101.