VEINS OF THE UPPER LIME. 503 EMISSARY VEINS. The emissary veins are vessels which pass through apertures in the wall of the cranium and establish communications between the sinuses and the veins of the exterior of the skull. They vary much in size in different individuals, and some of them are not always present. The following vessels may be included in this group, viz. :— (a) The mastoid emissary is the largest and most constant of these veins; it passes through the mastoid foramen between the lateral sinus and the outermost occipital, or less frequently the posterior auricular vein. (5) The parietal emissary, occupying the parietal foramen and connecting the superior longitudinal sinus with the veins of the scalp, is usually of small size, and is frequently wanting on one or both sides. (e) The condylar emissary is also inconstant; it passes from the lateral sinus through the posterior condylar foramen to the plexus surrounding the cervical vertebrae. (d) A minute occipital emissary (Henle) is sometimes present, passing from the torcular Ilerophili, through a foramen which opens on the external occipital protuberance, to one of the occipital veins. (e) Two or three small veins descend from the cavernous sinus through the foramen ovale, and others through the fibrous tissue in the foramen lacerum, to the pterygoid and pharyngeal plexuses. (/) A small plexus, prolonged from the cavernous sinus, accompanies the internal carotid artery in the carotid canal, and opens below into the internal jugular vein (Rektorzik). (y) A venous ring surrounds the hypoglossal nerve as it enters the anterior condylar foramen, and communicates internally with the occipital sinus, exter- nally with the deep veins of the neck (Luschka). VEINS OF THE UPPER LIMB. The veins of the upper limb are divisible into two sets, the superficial, which are placed between the fascia and the skin, and the deep, which accompany the arteries. The superficial veins are much larger than the deep, and take a greater share in returning the blood, especially from the distal portion of the limb. Both sets are provided with valves, and these are more numerous in the deep than in the subcutaneous veins. Valves are constantly present at the entrance of branches into the main vessels. SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE UPPER LIMB. The two principal cutaneous veins of the forearm, the radial and the posterior ulnar, commence on the dorsum of the hand by a plexus into which the branches from both surfaces of the fingers empty themselves. Two smaller veins, the median and the anterior ulnar, ascend on the front of the forearm ; and at the bend of the elbow all these vessels become connected so as to give rise to two trunks, the basilic and cephalic veins, which are continued up the arm. The radial vein takes origin from the outer part of the plexus on the back of the hand, and is also joined at the upper end of the first interosseous space by a communicating branch of considerable size from the venae comites of the deep palmar arch (Braune). It ascends along the outer border of the forearm, receiving numerous branches in its course, and at the bend of the elbow, in the hollow on the outer side of the biceps muscle, it unites with the median-cephalic division of the median vein to form the cephalic vein.