PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. 585 Fig. 331.—View op the distribution and connections op the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic nerves on the right side (after Hirsekfeld and Leveille). % a, lachrymal gland ; b, sublingual gland ; c, submaxillary gland and facial artery ; cl, thyroid body; e, trachea, below which is the right bronchus cut across ; /, oesophagus ; g, stomach, divided near the pylorus ; i, transverse colon ; r, the diaphragm. A, heart ; B, aortic arch, drawn forwards to show the cardiac plexus ; C, innominate artery ; D, subclavian artery ; E, inferior thyroid artery ; F, a divided part of the external carotid artery, upon which runs a nervous plexus ; G, internal carotid emerging from its canal superiorly ; H, descending thoracic aorta'; K, intercostal vein ; L, pul- monary artery ; M, superior vena cava ; O, intercostal artery. 1, ciliary nerves ; 2, branch of the third nerve to the inferior oblique muscle ; 3, 3, 3, the three divisions of the fifth nerve ; 4, ophthalmic ganglion ; 5, spheno-palatine ; 6, otic ; 7, submaxillary ; 8, sublingual ; 9, sixth nerve ; 10, facial in its canal, uniting with the spheno-palatine and otic ganglia; 11, glosso-pharyngeal ; 12, right pneumo- gastric ; 13, left pneumo-gastric spreading on the anterior surface of the stomach ; 14, spinal accessory ; 15, hypoglossal; 16, 16, nerves of the cervical plexus ; 17, middle nerve of the brachial plexus; 18, intercostal nerves; 19, lumbar nerve; 21, superior cervical ganglion con- nected with 22, the tympanic nerve ; 23, large superficial petrosal nerve ; 24, cavernous plexus ; 25, sympathetic root of the ophthalmic ganglion ; 26, filament to the pituitary body ; 27, union of the synrpathetic with the upper cervical nerves ; 28, pneumo-gastric nerve ; 29, superior laryngeal nerve ; 30, pharyngeal plexus ; 31, cord of the sympathetic nerve ; 32, superior cardiac nerve ; 33, middle cervical ganglion ; 34, twig connecting the ganglion with, 35, the recurrent; 36, middle cardiac nerve ; 37, cord of the sym- pathetic ; 38, inferior cervical ganglion ; 39, the line from this number crosses the nerves, proceeding from the brachial plexus ; 40, sympathetic twigs surrounding the axillary artery ; 41, branch of union with the first intercostal nerve ; the line from the letter c, pointing to the trachea, crosses the superior, middle, and inferior cardiac nerves ; 42, cardiac plexus ; 43, 44, right and left coronary plexuses; 45, 46, thoracic portion of the sympathetic cord ; 47, great splanchnic nerve ; 48, semilunar ganglion ; 49, lesser splanchnic ; 50, solar plexus ; 51, union -with the pneumo-gastric nerve ; 52, diaphragm- atic plexus ; 53, coronary plexus ; 54, hepatic ; 55, splenic ; 66, superior mesenteric ; 57, renal plexus ; 58, first lumbar sympathetic ganglion. pneumo-gastric as this nerve lies by the side of the trachea, and some are also derived from the first part of the recurrent branch ; they pass inwards on the air-tube, and end in the deep cardiac plexus. The cor- responding branches of the left side usually come entirely from the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Pulmonary branches.—Two sets of pulmonary branches are dis- tributed from the pneumo-gastric nerve to the lung; and they reach the root of the lung, one on its fore part, the other on its posterior as- pect. The anterior pulmonary nerves, two or three in number, are of small size. They join with filaments of the sympathetic ramifying on the pulmonary artery, and with these nerves constitute the anterior pulmonary plexus. Behind the root of the lung the pneumo-gastric nerve becomes flattened, and gives several branches of much larger size than the anterior branches, which, with filaments derived from the second, third, and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, form the posterior pulmonary plexus. Offsets from this plexus extend along the ramifications of the air-tube through the substance of the lung. The anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses of the two sides com- municate with one another in an open network across the front and back respectively of the lower end of the trachea, and through these networks fibres are conveyed from each pneumo-gastric nerve into both lungs. (Esophageal branches.—The oesophagus within the thorax receives branches from the pneumo-gastric nerves, both above and below the pulmonary branches. The lower branches are the larger, and are de- rived from the cesopharjeal plexus, formed by connecting cords between