ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB, 472 branches, which, issue along the back of the external intermuscular septum and supply the integument on the outer and posterior aspects of the thigh. All these offsets anastomose with one another, the upper ones also with the sciatic and internal circumflex arteries, and the lower ones with branches of the popliteal artery. Much diminished in size, the perforating arteries are continued outwards, winding round the back of the femur, the first passing through the insertion of the gluteus maximus and the others through the short head of the biceps and the external inter- muscular septum, to terminate in the vastus externus and crureus muscles, where they anastomose with branches of the external circumflex artery. (a) The first perforating artery-passes backwards at the lower border of the pectineus muscle, through the fibres of the adductor brevis and ad- ductor magnus, to both of which it furnishes branches, and is distributed mainly to the hamstring muscles and the lower end of the gluteus maximus. One branch ascends beneath the latter muscle on the back of the femur, and joins in the anastomosis in the hollow internal to the great tro- chanter with the gluteal, sciatic and internal circumflex arteries. Only a very small vessel is continued through the gluteus maximus into the vastus externus muscle. (b) The second perforating artery is frequently united at its origin with the first, a little below which it pierces the adductor brevis and magnus muscles. (c) The third perforating artery pierces the adductor magnus muscle below the insertion of the adductor brevis. The principal medullary artery of the femur is derived from cither the second or third perforating- artery. (el) The fourth perforating artery supplies chiefly the short head of the biceps muscle. It frequently gives a second artery to the femur. 6. Muscular branches.—In Scarpa’s triangle the femoral artery gives some small bi’anches to the surrounding muscles. In Hunter’s canal a variable number of larger branches is given off to the sartorius, vastus internus, and adductor muscles. A constant branch, of consider- able size, arises from the femoral artery near its termination (sometimes from the beginning of the popliteal) and passes outwards close to the back of the femur, perforating the short head of the biceps and the external intermuscular septum, to end in the outer part of the crureus muscle. 7. The anastomotic artery (iv) arises from the femoral close to the opening in the adductor magnus muscle, and immediately divides into two branches, superficial and deep, which are, however, not unfrequently given off separately from the femoral trunk. (a) The superficial branch accompanies the internal saphenous nerve to the inner side of the knee, giving offsets to the lower parts of the sartorius and gracilis muscles, and ends by supplying the skin of the upper and inner part of the leg. Small twigs anastomose over the inner tuberosity of the tibia with the lower internal articular artery of the popliteal. (b) The deep branch descends, embedded in the fibres of the vastus internus muscle, along the front of the adductor magnus tendon to the inner condyle of the femur, where it anastomoses with the internal articular arteries. It supplies the vastus internus and crureus muscles, and sends small offsets outwards across the front of the femur, as well as one of larger size at the upper border of the patella, to join the superior external articular artery from the popliteal.