DORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 30G (A. T.). i cervicis; 5", f>", on the Fig. 207. and upper two or three lumbar vertebrae, by a thin aponeurotic membrane which forms part of the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, and is closely united to the overlying tendon of the latissimus dorsi. Passing- outwards, upwards and forwards, it is inserted by four fleshy digitations into the lower borders of the last four ribs. The fleshy digitations are Fig. 207.—Dorsal mus- cles op THE UPPER PART OF THE TRURK. I, first, VI, sixth dor- sal vertebra; 1, upper part of the complexus muscle ; 2, splenius capitis ; 3, 3', splenius colli ; 4, serratus posticus superior; 5, up- per part of the longis- sinius dorsi; 5', the same continued up on the left side into the transversalis right side, the transver- salis cervicis spread out from its attachments ; 6, upper insertions of the ilio - costalis and acces- sorius ; 6', the same con- tinued up on the left side into the cervicalis ascen- dens; 6", lower end of the latter muscle of the right side showing its at- tachments ; 7, small part of the spinalis dorsi; 8, 8, right levator scapulae; 8', on the left side, its upper part divided; 9, 9, 9, levatores costarum on the right side. shorter than the aponeurotic part of the muscle, and they overlap one another from above downwards. The last slip varies in size with the length of the twelfth rib, and is often entirely concealed by the one above it. Varieties.—Absence of the first or last digitation is frequently seen ; of the whole muscle very rarely (Macalister). Nerves.—The serrati muscles are supplied by the intercostal nerves, each slip receiving a small branch which perforates the external intercostal muscle upon which it lies. Actions.—The serratus posticus superior elevates the upper ribs, and is there- fore a muscle of inspiration. The serratus inferior draws the lower ribs down- wards and, to a greater extent, backwards (see p. 149), and is also a muscle of inspiration, enlarging the lower part of the chest, and at the same time resisting the tendency of the diaphragm to draw the lower ribs upwards and forwards. Dorsal and lumbar fascial—The vertebral aponeurosis is situated on the same plane as the serratus posticus inferior, and consists of a thin lamella which separates the muscles belonging to the shoulder and arm from those tvhich support the spine and head. Its fibres are for the most part transverse, a few only being longitudinal. Above, it