DEEP VEIN'S OF THE LOWER LIMB. 521 DEEP VEINS OP THE LOWER LIMB. The deep veins accompany the arteries and their branches, following exactly their distribution. Those below the knee, being for the most part disposed in pairs, and presenting the disposition described in the corresponding veins of the upper limb, are named the mice comites of the vessels with which they are associated. The venae comites of the arteries of the leg, namely, the anterior and posterior tibial veins (the latter having previously received the peroneal), unite near the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and form by their junction the popliteal vein. Fig. 301.—The external saphenous vein. Fig. 301. The vein, commencing on the dorsum and outer side of the foot, is seen to pass up behind the outer ankle and to dip beneath the fascia in the popliteal space. The popliteal vein, thus formed, receives smaller branches corresponding to the articular and mus- cular arteries, and the larger branch named the external saphenous vein. In its course upwards the vein is placed superficially to the popliteal artery, and it crosses that vessel gradually from the inner to the outer side. It passes with the artery through the opening in the adductor magnus, and becomes continuous with the femoral vein. Varieties.—The union of the veins which form the popliteal is often farther up than usual, and the lower part of the artery is then accompanied by two veins. This arrangement in some rare cases extends to the entire length of the artery. The femoral vein extends, like the artery which it accompanies, through the upper three-fourths of the thigh, and terminates at Poupart’s ligament in the external iliac vein. Placed behind and at first somewhat to the outer side of the artery, it gradually inclines inwards, and on reaching Poupart’s liga- ment lies on the inner side, on the same plane with the artery, from which it is separated only by a slight partition of the membranous sheath investing both vessels. In the lower part of its course, the vein receives the branches which accompany the offsets of the superficial femoral artery ; in the upper part, the deep femoral (profunda) vein opens into it, having first received the vente comites of the branches derived from the deep femoral artery; and near its termination it is joined by the internal saphenous vein. The femoral vein contains several valves, and one is always present at the entrance of the profunda vein. In many cases there is another valve between the latter point and Poupart’s ligament (Friedreich, Morph. Jahrb., vii., 323). Varieties.—The femoral vein occasionally pursues a course different from that of the artery along the thigh. Extending upwards from the popliteal space, the vein in such cases perforates the adductor magnus above the ordinary position,