BONES OF THE HEAD. groove is continued into one of the lateral grooves (more frequently the right) by side of the internal occipital protuberance lodges the torcular Herophili. The inferior ridge is single, and is named the internal occi- pital crest. The margins of the tabular portion are deeply serrated above the lateral angles for articulation with the parietal bones ; below that level, they unite with the mastoid portions of the temporal bones. The condylar portions, or exoccipitals, bear the articulating con- dyles on their lower part close to the margin of the foramen magnum in its anterior half. The condyles are elliptical and converge somewhat in front; their surfaces are convex from behind forwards and from side to side, and somewhat everted. On the inner side of each is a rough impres- sion for the attachment of the lateral odontoid ligament of the axis. Per- forating the bone at the base of the condyle is the anterior condylar foramen, running from the interior of the cranium immediately above the foramen magnum outwards and forwards, and transmitting the hypoglossal nerve ; the foramen is occasionally double. Behind the condyle is a pit, 'posterior condylar fossa, containing usually the posterior condylar foramen ; this gives passage to a vein, but it varies greatly in size, and is often absent on one or both sides. Externally to the condyle is a projecting* portion of bone known as the jvyular process; this lies over the trans- verse process of the atlas, is continuous posteriorly with the tabular part, whilst anteriorly it has a free excavated margin, the jugular notch, which contributes, with a notch in the temporal bone, to form the jugular foramen. Its extremity presents a small irregular surface, which articu- lates by synchondrosis with the petrous part of the temporal bone, and in early adult life enters into osseous union with that. The upper surface of the jugular process is marked by a deep groove for the lateral sinus leading to the jugular notch, and here is seen the inner opening of the posterior condylar foramen ; the under surface is rough for the insertion of the rectus capitis lateralis muscle. The basilar process, or basioccipital, projects forwards and up- wards in the middle of the base of the skull. It increases in thickness and diminishes in breadth towards its extremity. On the inferior surface in the mid-line is a small elevation, pharyngeal tubercle, for the attach- ment of the fibrous raphe of the pharynx, and on each side of this are impressions for the rectus capitis anticus major and minor muscles. Its superior surface presents a smooth depression, the basilar groove, which supports the medulla oblongata, and close to each lateral margin a shallow groove for the inferior petrosal sinus. THE PARIETAL BONE. The parietal bones form a considerable part of the roof of the skull. They have the shape of quadrilateral plates, convex externally, concave internally. They are a little broader and thicker above than below ; the anterior inferior angle is the most projecting. They articulate with each other in the middle line, with the frontal bone anteriorly, the occipital posteriorly, and the temporal and sphenoid below. On the outer surface, near its middle, a more marked convexity exists forming the parietal eminence. Below this is the curved temporal line, bounding an area somewhat flatter than the rest, temporal surface, which, forms part of the temporal fossa. Close to the upper border, and nearer to the posterior angle, is the small parietal foremen.