SUPERFICIAL PALMAR ARCH. 421 radial artery ; but as these influence the extent of the distribution of the ulnar artery in the hand they will be noticed in connection with the varieties of the vessels of that part. Branches.—The anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent branches frequently arise by a common trunk. One or both have been seen to arise from the brachial artery. The anterior and posterior interosseous arteries are occasionally given separately from the ulnar. The common interosseous trunk has been found to arise above its ordinary situation, taking origin from the brachial, and even (but more rarely) from the axillary artery. The anterior interosseous artery has been seen of large size, reinforcing the radial or, more rarely, the ulnar artery by means of a transversely directed branch joining the main trunk at the wrist (enlargement of an anterior carpal artery) ; or its posterior branch has been seen joining the radial on the back of the hand. More frequently it gives off a large median artery. Median artery.-—The branch accompanying the median nerve is sometimes much enlarged, and in such cases may be regarded as a reinforcing vessel. It is generally a branch of the anterior interosseous, but sometimes of the ulnar ; and more rarely a median branch has been met with descending from the brachial or axillary artery. Generally accompanying the median nerve beneath the annular ligament, occasionally however passing over the front of the ligament, it enters the palm of the hand and there ends, most frequently by joining the superficial palmar arch, sometimes by forming digital branches, and in other cases by joining digital branches given from other sources (figs. 251, 2G0). SUPERFICIAL PALMAR ARCH (IV). The superficial palmar arch is the continuation of the ulnar artery in the hand. As it passes over the anterior annular ligament the ulnar artery gives off its deep branch, and a little below that band it turns outwards across the palm of the hand towards the middle of the muscles of the thumb. In this course the vessel describes a curve, having its convexity directed towards the fingers, and extending downwards somewhat lower than a line on a level with the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb. The arch is sometimes completed on the outer side by inosculating with the superficial volar branch of the radial artery, and in many cases it is connected also, by a small branch, with the radialis indicis or princeps pollicis artery at the lower border of the adductor pollicis muscle. The superficial palmar arch rests at its commencement on the annular ligament of the wrist, and slightly on the short muscles of the little finger; then on the tendons of the superficial flexor of the fingers, and the divisions of the median and ulnar nerves, the latter nerve accompany- ing the vessel for a short distance. It is covered towards the ulnar border of the hand by the palmaris brevis, and afterwards by the palmar fascia and the integument. Branches.—The superficial palmar arch gives off small twigs to the superficial muscles and integument of the palm, and the following larger branches to the fingers :—- The digital arteries (v), usually four in number, proceed downwards from the convexity of the palmar arch to supply both sides of the three inner fingers, and the ulnar side of the fore finger. The first digital branch (often derived from the deep arch) inclines inwards to the ulnar border of the hand, and, after giving minute offsets to the muscles of the little finger, runs along the inner margin of its phalanges. The second runs along the fourth intermetacarpal space, and at the root of the fingers divides into two collateral branches, which proceed along the contiguous