SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE SHOULDER AND ARM. 685 back of the shoulder is flattened, and sloped from within outwards and a little forwards, owing to the oblique position of the scapula; and the hinder portion of the deltoid, which is thinner than the anterior, is tendinous at its origin, and adheres closely to the subjacent infraspinatus muscle, so that the upper part of its margin is not indicated upon the surface. The infraspinatus is continued into the teres minor, and below the latter muscle is the thick teres major, with the latissimus dorsi winding round it, forming the posterior fold of the axilla. When the arm is abducted, the middle portion of the deltoid, being brought into action, is seen to present an irregular surface, the prominences corre- sponding to the separate fleshy portions of the muscle, and the depressions to the tendinous septa extending downwards from the acromion. The course of the axillary artery is marked upon the surface by a line drawn from the mid-point of the clavicle to the inner border of the elevation formed by the coraco-brachialis muscle (see below). If the limb be raised from the side, the third part of the artery may be felt pulsating beneath the integument and fascia (the vein intervening) as it passes into the arm, being placed at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds of the space between the axillary folds. The artery may be readily compressed here against the humerus. The posterior circum- flex vessels and the circumflex nerve are winding round the back of the humerus under cover of the deltoid, at the junction of the upper and the middle thirds of the muscle. THE ARM. The shaft of the humerus is for the most part thickly covered by the muscles of the arm, and can only be felt with difficulty ; but just below the insertion of the deltoid the bone comes nearer to the surface, and from this spot the outer border, or the external supracondylar ridge, can be followed down to the outer condyle, along the bottom of a furrow over the external intermuscular septum, between the supinator longus and triceps muscles. The internal supracondylar ridge is less prominent, and not so readily felt. Along the fore and inner part of the arm (when hanging naturally by the side) is the eminence formed by the biceps muscle, extending, with a slight inclination outwards below, from the anterior margin of the axilla to the elbow. Superiorly, this is continued into a narrow eleva- tion produced by the coraco-brachialis muscle, which issues from between the anterior and posterior axillary folds. Two depressions, the inner and outer bicipital furrows, are found on the inner and outer side respectively of the prominence of the biceps ; along the outer of these the cephalic vein may generally be seen ascending beneath the skin ; in the inner, which is better marked, are placed the basilic vein (in its lower half or less superficial to the fascia), the brachial vessels and the median nerve. The brachial artery is usually overlapped to a greater or less extent by the margin of the biceps, but it can be felt pulsating throughout. Pressure should be applied to the vessel from within outwards in the upper half of the arm, from before backwards in the lower. On the outer side of the biceps, a portion of the brachialis anticus comes to the surface, and beyond that the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior form a prominence which descends to the forearm in front of the external condyle ; the supinator muscle shows very