691 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE HIP AND THIGH. If a line be drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the outer part of the ischial tuberosity, it will cross the posterior inferior spine and the ischial spine : the posterior inferior spine is nearly two inches, and the ischial spine about four inches, below the posterior superior spine : the sciatic artery appears in the buttock at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of this line. The gluteal artery leaves the great sacro- sciatic foramen beneath a spot corresponding to the junction of the inner and middle thirds of a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the great trochanter, when the thigh is rotated inwards. Between the gluteal and sciatic arteries, the great sciatic nerve leaves the pelvis, and it thence pursues a slightly curved course to a point midway between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity. THE THIGH. The thigh is separated from the abdomen in. front by the curved inguinal furrow, at the bottom of which Poupart’s ligament may be felt, more plainly in its inner than in its outer half, as it passes from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the pubic spine: the band is relaxed, and becomes less distinct, on flexing and adducting, or rotating in, the thigh. From the pubic spine, the finger passes along the pubic crest to the front of the symphysis, and thence backwards along the inner margin of the united pubic and ischial rami to the tuberosity of the ischium, thus tracing the boundary line between the thigh and the perineum. Externally, the thigh is not definitely marked off from the region of the hip. Immediately below Poupart’s ligament, a slight hollow is generally seen, corresponding to Scarpa’s triangular space (pp. 242 and 4G7), in which, just internal to the centre, the femoral artery may be felt pulsating. Close below the innermost part of Poupart’s ligament is situated the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, its central point being about an inch and a half below and external to the spine of the pubis. Through the lower part of this aperture the internal saphenous vein passes to join the femoral trunk, and above the vein is the spot where a femoral hernia first makes its appearance on the surface of the thigh. Over and below the opening, the femoral or lower inguinal glands may usually be felt through the skin, surrounding the upper end of the internal saphenous vein. From the apex of Scarpa’s triangle a depression is continued down- Avards along the inner part of the thigh, between the masses formed by the quadriceps extensor muscle in front, and the adductor muscles on the inner side. The sartorius muscle lies along this depression, and may be distinctly seen Avhen it is brought into action by raising the leg across the opposite knee. The form of the rectus muscle may be distinguished along the front of the anterior mass, and to its inner side, in about the lower half of the thigh, the vastus internus gives rise to a large prominence, increasing in size toAvards the knee, Avhile on the outer side of the rectus, the vastus externus forms a broad convex surface, extending from the great trochanter above almost to the knee-joint below, and being con- tinued backwards to the posterior aspect of the limb. The surface formed by the A'astus externus is often seen to be traversed by a longi- tudinal groove, due to the pressure exerted by the strong ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata as it descends from the insertions of the gluteus maximus and tensor vaginae femoris muscles to the outer tuberosity of Y Y 2