MUSCLES AND FASCIJE OF THE ABDOMEN. 322 abdominal viscera are pressed downwards, and the thorax expanded vertically. The fibres arising- from the ribs, being directed nearly vertically upwards from their origins, must tend to raise those ribs, and Duchenne has shown that the contrac- tion of the diaphragm by itself elevates and expands the upper ribs to which it is attached, but only so long as the vault of the muscle is supported by the abdominal viscera, for when they are removed it no longer has that action (op. cit. p. 620). The scrratus posticus inferior and quadratus lumborum muscles, by opposing the diaphragm, and thus giving it a fixed point on which to descend, become assistant muscles of inspiration. The anterior fibres of the diaphragm, being directed more horizontally towards the central tendon, oppose the forward motion of the sternum; hence the sternum becomes arched in patients long subject to asthma. (Hutchinson, Article “ Thorax,” in Todd’s “ Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology ; ” Meyer, “ Physiologische Anatomic.”) In more forcible inspiration, and more especially in severe attacks of dyspnoea, there are called into play other powerful muscles, to secure the inspiratory action of which a fixed attachment must be provided by the support and elevation of the shoulder and arm ; among these maybe enumerated th e pectoralis minor, the lower part of the pectoralis major and possibly also the lowest slips of the scrratus magnus. Additional assistance in elevating the sternum and upper ribs is afforded by the starno-mastoicl and the infrahyoid muscles. Expiration.—In normal and quiet expiration the diminution of the capacity of the chest is mainly, if not wholly, due to the return of the walls of the chest to the condition of rest, in consequence of their own elastic reaction, and of the elasticity and weight of the viscera and other parts displaced by inspira- tion ; the lungs themselves, after distension by air, exert considerable elastic force, and no doubt the ribs and their cartilages react strongly by their elastic return from the elevated and expanded condition into which they had been thrown by the inspiratory forces. In more forcible acts of expiration, in muscular efforts of the limbs and trunk, and in efforts of expulsion from the thoracic and abdominal cavities, all the muscles which tend to depress the ribs, and those which compress the abdominal cavity, concur in powerful action to empty the lungs, to fix the trunk, and to expel the contents of the abdominal viscera. (See farther, Action of the Abdominal Muscles.”) MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OE THE ABDOMEN. Fascial—The superficial fascia of tlie abdomen is usually described as consisting of two layers. One of these, the subcutaneous layer, corre- sponds in its general features with the areolar subcutaneous tissue of other parts of the body, and contains embedded in it a very variable and often large quantity of fat. The other, or deeper layer, is of a denser and more membranous structure, and contains a considerable amount of yellow elastic tissue in its substance ; it is only connected by loose areolar tissue to the subjacent aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, except at the umbilicus and along the linea alba, where the attachment is more intimate, while interiorly a fibrous and elastic expansion of con- siderable strength, derived from this layer, passes from the lower part of the linea alba and the symphysis pubis to the dorsum of the penis, constituting the suspensory ligament of that organ. These two layers are both con- tinuous with the superficial fascia on other parts of the trunk: they can be dissected as distinct layers only on the fore part of the abdomen, and they are separated in a more marked manner in the immediate neighbourhood of the groin, where subcutaneous vessels, such as the superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac, as well as lymphatic glands, lie between them. This distinct portion of the deeper layer is known as the fascia of Scarpa (Struthers), and passing down freely over Poupart’s ligament it ends im- mediately below that band by becoming blended with the fascia lata ; but internally, near the external abdominal ring, it remains free and is pro-