NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 633 Iii tlic female tlie dorsal nerve of the clitoris is much smaller than the corresponding branch in the male ; it is similarly distributed. Fig. 359. Fig. 359.—Dissection of the perineum of the male to show the distribution of the pudic and other nerves (after Hirsclifeld and Leveille). £ On the right side a part of the gluteus maximus muscle and the great sacro-seiatic liga- ment have been removed : 1, great sciatic nerve of the right side ; 2, 2', on the right side, inferior gluteal nerve ; 2", on the left side, gluteal cutaneous branches of the small -sciatic; 3, small sciatic nerve in the thigh; 4, 4, inferior pudendal nerve; 4', network of this and the superficial perineal nerves on the scrotum ; 5, right pudic nerve; 6, superior branch or dorsal nerve to the penis ; 7, external superficial perineal branch ; 7', internal superficial perineal branch; 8, deep or musculo-bulbal branches; 9, inferior hiemorrhoidal nerve; 10, perforating cutaneous nerve. Summary.—The pudic nerve supplies the skin and muscles of the perineum, the penis, and part of the scrotum in the male : and the clitoris, labia, and other corresponding parts in the female. It com- municates with the inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve. Great sciatic nerve.—The great sciatic nerve (nervus ischiadicus major), the largest nerve in the body, supplies the muscles at the back of the thigh, and by the branches continued from it gives nerves to all the muscles below the knee and to the greater part of the integument of the leg and foot. The several joints of the lower limb receive filaments from it and its branches. This large nerve is the continuation of the main part of the sacral plexus. It extends from the lower border of the pyriformis muscle to somewhat below the middle of the thigh, where it separates into two large divisions, named the infernal and external popliteal nerves. At first it lies in the hollow between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity, covered by the gluteus maximus and resting on the gemelli, obturator interims, and quadratus femoris muscles, in company with the small sciatic nerve and the sciatic artery, and receiving from that artery a branch which runs