ARflH OF THE AORTA. 358 come to receive a full supply of blood from enlarged anastomosing vessels (internal mammary, intercostal, &.c.) passing between the vessels which rise from the arch and those connected with the descending aorta. Along with the same division may also be classed the series of converse cases, in which the pulmonary arch being closed anteriorly, the pulmonary vessels have received their supply of blood from the descending aorta. Such examples of the origin of the pulmonary arteries from the aorta, as they have been styled, and examples of the origin of the left, or in very rare cases of the right subclavian artery from the ductus arteriosus or from one of the pulmonary arteries, are explicable by reference to the same group of developmental phenomena. 5. The varieties in the number and position of the vessels springing from the arch of the aorta are extremely numerous ; some very frequent, others compa- ratively rare. These vessels may be all collected into one trunk, or they may rise separately from the aorta to the number of six. In the rare case of one trunk, we may suppose the anterior aortic roots to be combined so as to collect all the branches proceeding from them together, as naturally occurs in the horse, forming what is called the anterior aorta. The cases of two vessels from the arch may be of two kinds ; one, which is the commonest of all the varieties of the aortic vessels, in which the left carotid is united with the innominate artery into a common stem ; and the other, com- paratively rare, in which there are two innominate trunks, as in birds. Three is the normal number of branches rising separately from the arch in man, and apes, and some other mammals. There is, however, a rarer form of variety in which the number is the same, and in which, as occurs naturally in some cetacea, the subclavians are both separate vessels, and the two carotids spring from a common stem in the interval between them. The commonest form of the condition in which there are four vessels taking origin from the aortic arch is that in which the sessile left vertebral artery rises between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. The origin of four large arte- ries in the order, right carotid, left carotid, left subclavian, and right subclavian, has been referred to (p. 357). A rarer form is that in which the vessels rising from the arch are successively the right subclavian, the right carotid, the left carotid, and the left subclavian arteries. The number of five arteries proceeds from the division of the innominate into subclavian and carotid, together with separate origin of the left vertebral artery. In the case of six vessels proceeding from the single arch, of which there are a few instances described, the vessels were in the following order, which is that which might be anticipated from the mode of development, viz.,right subclavian, vertebral and carotid, left carotid, vertebral and subclavian arteries. There are, however, many other varieties and modifications of those already mentioned, for which the fuller works already quoted may be referred to. BRANCHES OF THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. The coronary arteries (iv) are two small vessels, right and left, which arise from the root of the aorta in the upper parts of two of the sinuses of Valsalva, on a level with the margins of the semilunar valves. The right coronary artery arises from the anterior sinus of Valsalva ; it comes forwards between the pulmonary artery and right auricular appendix, then runs obliquely in the auriculo-ventricular groove on the right side and the posterior aspect of the heart, until it reaches the line of separation between the two ventricles, where it divides into two branches. The smaller of these continues transversely in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, approaching the termination of the transverse branch of the left coronary artery; while the other branch runs longitudinally downwards along the posterior interventricular groove, giving branches to each ventricle and to the septum between them.