NERVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 616 (a) The external branch passes to the radial side of the thumb, and is joined by an offset of the external cutaneous nerve. It distributes fila- ments over the ball of the thumb. (b) The internal portion communicates with a branch of the external cutaneous nerve on the back of the forearm, and divides into three digital branches ; om divides to supply the ulnar side of the thumb, and the radial side of the index finger, the second similarly supplies the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers, while the third joins with an offset from the dorsal branch of the ulnar, and along with it forms a nerve for the supply of the contiguous sides of the middle and ring F;g. 347. Fig. 347.—View of the radial side of the forearm, SHOWING THE FINAL DISTRIBUTION OF THE MUSC1JLO- srniAL nerve (after Hirschield and Leveille). 5- Tlie supinator longus and the radial extensors have been divided, and their upper parts removed ; the extensor communis digitorum is pulled backwards, and the supi- nator brevis has been partially dissected to show the posterior interosseous nerve passing through it. 1, on the tendon of the biceps muscle, the musculo- cutaneous nerve; 1', near the wrist, the lower part of this nerve and its plexus of union with the radial nerve ; 2, trunk of the musculo-spiral nerve emerging from be- tween the brachialis anticus, on which the number is placed, and the supinator longus muscles ; 2', its muscular twigs to the long supinator and long radial extensor ; 2", the posterior interosseous nerve passing through the sub- stance of the supinator brevis ; 3, placed upon the cut lower portion of the supinator longus, and lower down, the radial nerve ; 4, the external digital nerve of the thumb ; 5, digital nerve of the forefinger and thumb ; 6, the same of the fore and middle fingers ; 7, twig of union with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve ; 8, placed upon the common extensor of the fingers, the muscular branches of the posterior interosseous nerve to the long extensor muscles ; 9, upon the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, the branches to the short extensor muscles. fingers. These branches communicate on the sides of the fingers with the palmar digital nerves, ana their fibres do not extend beyond the base of the second phalanges, except in the case of the branches to the thumb, which supply the whole of the dorsal surface of that digit. Sometimes the interspace between the middle and ring fingers is entirely supplied by the radial, and at other times entirely by the ulnar nerve. Posterior interosseous nerve.—This nerve, the larger of the two divisions of the musculo-spiral, winds to the back of the forearm through the fibres of the supinator brevis muscle, and is prolonged between the deep and superficial layers of the extensor muscles to somewhat below the middle of the forearm, where it sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and reaches the lower part of the inter- osseous membrane. Much diminished in size by the separation of numerous branches for