380 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. branch, which, with the nerve bearing the same name, runs in a groove on the inner surface of the jaw, below the dental foramen, and ramifies on the under surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle. In its course through the bone, the inferior dental artery gives off small offsets, which ascend to enter the minute apertures in the extremities of the fangs of the teeth, and supply the pulp of each ; before emerging at the mental foramen, it sends forwards a branch which supplies the incisor teeth and com- municates with its fellow of the opposite side. The terminal or mental branch anastomoses with the inferior coronary, inferior labial, and sub- mental arteries. (/) A small branch, arising either from the inferior dental artery or from the internal maxillary trunk, descends with the lingual nerve, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the mouth. B. —Branches of the second part.—(a) The deep temporal branches, two in number (anterior and posterior), ascend between the temporal muscle and the cranium, supply that muscle, and anastomose with the middle temporal artery, and with minute branches of the lachrymal artery, through small foramina in the malar bone. (b) The pterygoid branches, small, short offsets, irregular in number and origin, are distributed to the pterygoid muscles. (c) The masseteric is a small but regular branch which passes from within outwards, with the nerve of the same name, through the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, to the deep surface of the masseter muscle. It is often joined at its origin with the posterior temporal branch. (d) The buccal branch runs obliquely downwards and forwards upon the buccinator muscle with the buccal nerve; it is distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the cheek, and anastomoses with the branches of the facial and other arteries of this region. C. —Branches of the third part.—(a) The posterior dental or alveolar branch, arising near the back of the superior maxilla, frequently in common with the infraorbital branch, runs tortuously downwards upon the zygomatic surface of the bone, and gives off branches which enter the posterior dental canals, and supply the upper molar and bicuspid teeth, besides ramifying in the lining membrane of the maxillary sinus. Other small branches supply the gum. (b) The infraorbital artery runs horizontally forwards into the infra- orbital canal, and having traversed that canal along with the superior maxillary nerve, emerges upon the face at the infraorbital foramen. While in the canal, it sends upwards into the orbit small branches, which enter the inferior rectus and the inferior oblique muscles of the eye and the lachrymal gland, and an anterior dental branch (sometimes two) which descends in the canal of the same name to supply the front teeth and the mucous membrane of the antrum. On the face it gives branches upwards, to the lachrymal sac and inner angle of the orbit, anastomosing with branches of the ophthalmic and facial arteries, and sends other branches downwards, beneath the levator labii superioris, which join the ramifications of the transverse facial, buccal, and facial arteries. (c) The descending or superior palatine artery descends through the posterior palatine canal, with the large palatine nerve, and runs along the hard palate, supplying the mucous membrane, the glands, and the gum. In front it ends in a small vessel which ascends through the incisor foramen, and anastomoses with the naso-palatine artery. On its way downwards, this artery sends off twigs through the smaller palatine