481 PLANTAR ARTERIES. ligament, where it is covered by the origin of the abductor hallucis muscle. The internal plantar artery (v), much smaller than the external, lies along the inner side of the foot. Placed at first under cover of the abductor hallucis, it passes forwards in the groove between that muscle and the short flexor of the toes, and on reaching the head of the first metatarsal bone, considerably diminished in size, it terminates by joining the digital artery to the inner side of the great toe. Fig. 284.—Superficial view of the arteries in the sole of the right foot (from Tiedemann). -J- a, tuberosity of the calcaneum close to the origins of the flexor brevis digitorum (cut short) and the ab- ductor hallucis, of which a part is removed to show the plantar arteries; b, abductor hallucis; c, abductor minimi digiti ; d, tendon of the flexor longus hallucis ; e, tendon of the flexor longus digitorum ; e', its foui- slips, close to the lumbricales muscles, passing on to perforate the tendons of the flexor brevis ; /, flexor accessorius ; g, flexor brevis minimi digiti ; 1, posterior tibial, dividing into the plantar arteries ; 2, 2', external plantar ; 3, internal plantar ; 3', the same passing for- wards to communicate with 4, the digital branch for the great toe, derived from the dorsal artery of the foot; 5, first digital branch to the fifth toe ; 6, placed in the angle of division of the second digital artery, between the fourth and fifth toes ; 7, third digital artery dividing similarly between the third and fourth toes ; 8, fourth digital artery dividing between the second and third toes ; 9, digital artery dividing between the first and second toes ; 10, internal digital artery of'the great toe ; 11, calcaneal branches of the external plantar artery, anastomosing with 12, the calcaneal branches of the posterior peroneal artery. Branches.—(a) Small branches of this artery accompany the digital branches of the internal plantar nerve, and join the digital arteries in the inner three clefts (see Ellis, “Illustrations of Dissections,” id. lvi.). It also gives (b) offsets to the surrounding muscles, and (c) cutaneous branches, which appear in the furrow between the middle and internal portions of the plantar fascia. (d) Other branches pass inwards and appear at the upper border of the abductor hallucis muscle, supplying the integument and anastomosing with offsets of the dorsal artery of the foot; and (e) from the outer side one or more branches run deeply into the foot, to supply the articulations and anastomose with branches of the plantar arch. The external plantar artery (iv) at first inclines outwards and forwards, to reach the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; it then turns obliquely inwards across the sole, to gain the interval between the bases of the first and second metatarsal bones, where it joins the dorsal artery of the foot ; and thus is completed the plantar arch, the convexity of which is turned forwards. At first the artery is placed, together with the external plantar nerve, between the calcaneum and the abductor hallucis ; farther on it lies between the flexor brevis digitorum and flexor accessorius. As it turns forwards it lies in the interval between the VOL. I. II