357 VARIETIES OF TIIE AORTIC ARCII. position of the right fourth branchial arch having been developed instead of the left; and accordingly there are instances of this variety, in which no other deviation from the natural condition of the parts exists beyond what proceeds from the change of side taken by the aortic arch, leading to the innominate or brachio-cephalic artery being a left one, or furnishing the left subclavian and carotid arteries, and the succeeding vessels being the right carotid and right sub- clavian. The recurrent laryngeal nerve forms its sling on the right side round the aortic arch, and on the left round the arch of the subclavian artery. 4. Varieties of Vke posterior part of the arch and ductus arteriosus belong pro- perly to the changes occurring in connection with the posterior embryonic aortic roots. One of the most frequent varieties of this group is that of the subclavian artery (of the right side, when the aortic arch is left or normal) rising, as it has been described, from the back part of the arch, or fourth in the series of vessels pro- ceeding from it, but which, according to embryological elucidation, would be more correctly designated as the subclavian artery formed in connection with one of the posterior aortic roots ; the natural anterior root and arch being abnormaUy closed. In such cases the subclavian artery takes its course behind the trachea and gullet to reach its subsequent natural place as it passes between the scalene muscles and over the first rib. Fig. 230.—Diagram op the natural origin of vessels prom Fig. 230. THE AORTIC ARCH AS COMPARED WITH THE DISPLACED SUB- CLAVIAN ARTERY. (A. T. ) I., The normal disposition; II., the right subclavian artery displaced or proceeding from the right aortic root. A, A, ascending and descending parts of the thoracic aorta ; P, pul- monary stem ; d, ductus arteriosus ; a, right aortic root or its remains ; a', left aortic root ; c, common carotid arteries ; i, innominate artery ; s, right, and s', left subclavian artery ; v, right, and v’, left vertebral artery. A similar variety may occur in 'an instance of right aortic arch, in which case it is the left subclavian artery which takes the abnormal course. In both examples of this variety, the anterior part of the subclavian arch being absent, the inferior laryngeal nerve is not recurrent, but passes directly to the larynx without being drawn down as a sling or loop by the subclavian artery. There are also many instances of transitions or grada- tions between these cases and the completely double aortic arch. See a paper on “ Varieties of the Arch of the Aorta,” by Turner, in Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Review, 1862, and “ Description of a Case of Right Aortic Arch,” by Allen Thomson, in Glasg. Med. Joum. 1863, in which such cases are more fully explained, and also the works of Henle, Hyrtl, and Struthers. In some of the instances of aberrant subclavian artery of the kind now referred to, the vertebral artery is detached from the subclavian, and rises directly from the arch of the aorta. Under the same division may be brought those numerous varieties in the closure of the ductus arteriosus, and its union with the aorta or other vessels which have been observed ; the greater number of which it will be understood, from the nature of the change in the circulation which takes place at birth, are only compatible with intrauterine life. Such are those cases in which the pulmonary artery leads through the ductus arteriosus, or fifth branchial arch of the left side, into the descending aorta ; while the aortic arch itself is more or less separated by a constriction or even a complete closure of its tube from the descending part of the aorta. It is remarkable, however, that in some rare cases of the kind now referred to, life has been prolonged after birth, and the ductus arteriosus having become closed, probably gradually, the descending aorta has