TRICEPS EXTENSOR AND ANCONEUS MUSCLES. 211 delations.—The long head of the triceps lies between the two teres muscles above, and is closely connected to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The musculo- •spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery are deeply imbedded in the muscle, and in the spiral groove pass between the inner and outer heads. Varieties.—The most frequent varieties of the triceps muscle are the following, viz. :—1, an additional or fourth head arising from the inner part of the humerus, above or near the inner head; and 2, a slip of connection between the triceps and the latissimus dorsi, corresponding with the dorso-epitroclilearis or accessorius tricipitis which is common among quadrumana, and exists in many other mam- mals. The cpitrocMeo-anconeus of Wenzel Gruber is a small muscle frequently present, rising from the back of the inner condyle, and inserted into the olecranon : it lies over the ulnar nerve. Subanconeus.—On removing the triceps from the lower part of the humerus, a few muscular fibres are sometimes found passing from that part of the bone to the capsule of the elbow-joint. These fibres, which are analogous to the subcrureus in the lower limb, have been described as distinct from the triceps under the name subanconeus. The anconeus muscle, although placed chiefly below the elbow and in the forearm, is intimately connected with the triceps, and may be most appropriately associated in description with that muscle. It arises by a narrow tendon from a slight impression on the posterior surface of the external condyle of the humerus. From this the fibres diverge, the upper being transverse, the rest passing downwards with increasing degrees of obliquity, and are inserted into the olecranon on its radial aspect, and into the adjacent impression on the upper third of the shaft of the ulna. Its superior fibres are parallel to the lowest fibres of the internal head of the triceps, and are generally continuous with them. Relations.—This muscle is subcutaneous in its whole extent. Its deep surface Is in contact with the supinator brevis and the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint. Varieties.—The anconeus varies chiefly in being more or less united to the triceps or the extensor carpi ulnaris. Nerves of the Brachial Muscles.—The three anterior flexor muscles are all supplied from the musculo-cutaneous nerve : the brachialis anticus, however, receives also a small twig from the musculo-spiral nerve. The triceps and anconeus receive then- nerves entirely from the musculo-spiral. Actions.—The biceps muscle raises the arm at the shoulder and flexes the elbow-joint; the short head of the biceps draws the arm inwards as well as up- wards, as does also the coraco-bracliialis. If the biceps be called into action when the hand is in pronation, its first effect, from its insertion into the back part of the tuberosity of the radius, is to produce supination of the forearm. The biceps also makes tense the fascia of the forearm. The brachialis anticus is a simple flexor of the elbow. The external and internal heads of the triceps and the anconeus are simple extensors of the elbow-joint; the long head, while it assists in extending the elbow, also tends to depress the arm on the scapula. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE FOREARM. Fascije.—The superficial fascia of the forearm is most distinct opposite the bend of the elbow, where the superficial veins contained between its laminae are numerous and large. In the palm of the hand, on the contrary, the subcutaneous tissue forms a firm connecting medium between the skin and a strong aponeurosis named the palmar fascia; it consists of a network of fibres passing between those two structures, dividing the subcutaneous fat into small granular masses, and preventing the skin from shifting to any considerable extent. r 2