237 MUSCLES OF THE HIP. the obturator externus, and also the lesser trochanter, which is separated from it by a snj.aH bursa. Varieties.—The quadratus femoris may be entirely absent and replaced by an enlarged gemellus inferior. The obturator externus muscle arises from the outer surface of the obturator membrane for the inner half of its extent, from the femoral surface of the body of the pubis, and from the rami of the pubis and ischium. The fibres converge as they are directed outwards in the groove between the acetabulum and the tuberosity of the ischium to the lower part of the hip-joint; then winding backwards and upwards, closely applied to the lower and hinder surfaces of the neck of the femur, they end in a tendon which is inserted into the bottom of the digital fossa of the great trochanter. Relations.—Tbe obturator externus is concealed in front by the pectineus, ilio- psoas, adductor brevis and adductor magnus muscles; near its insertion it is covered behind by the quadratus femoris : its deep surface is closely connected to the capsule of the hip as it passes backwards. The obturator vessels are placed between the muscle and the obturator membrane, and the superficial part of the obturator nerve passes above it while the deep part perforates it near its upper border. Nerves.—The gluteus maximus is supplied by the inferior gluteal nerve ; the gluteus medius and minimus and tensor vaginae femoris by the superior gluteal nerve. The pyriformis, gemelli, obturator internus, and quadratus femoris receive special branches from the sacral plexus. The obturator externus is supplied by the obturator nerve. Actions.—The gluteus maximus muscle is the chief extensor of the hip-joint. By its agency the bent thigh is brought into a line with the body. The lower part of the muscle also acts as an adductor, and external rotator of the limb, while the upper part will assist in producing abduction. Its most powerful action, and that in connection with which it is so largely developed in the human subject, is to extend the trunk upon the thigh when bent forwards. It also comes into operation in ascending an incline or a stair, in leaping, and in rising from the sitting posture. But although the full contraction of the glutei maximi is required to bring the body into the erect posture, it is not necessary for its maintenance when complete, the trunk being then supported on the thigh-bones by the tension of ligaments, while the body is so poised that its centre of gravity is placed slightly behind the vertical plane passing through the middle of the hip-joints (see p. 170). By means of its insertion into the Hio-tibial band of the fascia lata, which is attached below to the fore part of the outer tuberosity of the tibia, the gluteus maximus is farther enabled to exercise an influence upon the knee, steadying and supporting that joint in the extended position during standing, when the proper extensor muscles are relaxed. The gluteus medius and minimus are powerful abductors of the thigh, and along with the tensor vaginas femoris, come principally into action in supporting the body on one limb, and in the rotation of the pelvis on the two limbs alter- nately which takes place in walking. Their anterior fibres draw forwards the great trochanter, and rotate the limb inwards, while the posterior part of the minimus produces outward rotation. The tensor xagince femoris aids the gluteus medius and minimus in rotating in- wards and abducting the limb, in the latter case being combined in its action with the upper part of the gluteus maximus. Owing to its mode of insertion, moreover, it will assist the gluteus maximus in supporting the knee in the extended position, counteracting the tendency of that muscle to draw the ilio- tibial band backwards and thus ensuring that the traction is exercised upon the tibia in the direct line of the thigh. The pyriformis, obturator interims, and gemelli muscles support the hip-joint posteriorly, and rotate the limb outwards when it is extended, but become ab-