OSTEOLOGY. -—*—• THE SKELETON. The Skeleton or solid framework of the body is mainly formed of the bones, but is completed in some parts by the addition of cartilages. The bones are bound together by means of ligaments, and are so disposed as to support the softer parts, protect delicate organs, and give attachment to the muscles by which the different movements are executed. In the lower animals the term skeleton has a wider signification than in man, comprehending two sets of parts, viz., 1st, those of the endo- skeleton, or the deeper osseous and cartilaginous framework which corresponds to the human skeleton ; and 2nd, those of the exoskeleton, or dermal skeleton, comprising the integument and various hardened structures connected with it. All vertebrate animals possess an endo- skeleton; but in some of them the exoskeleton attains greater pro- portions than in others, and is combined by means of hardened parts more fully with portions of the endoskeleton. In most invertebrate animals the dermal or exoskeleton alone exists. In man, as in the higher vertebrates, the greater part of the endo- skeleton is formed of bone, a calcified animal tissue, which, when freed by putrefactive maceration from its fat and various soft adherent parts, and subsequently dried, is capable of remaining unchanged for a very long period of time. It is customary and convenient thus to study the bones chiefly in the macerated and dried state, that is, deprived of their accessory soft parts. The accessory soft parts connected with the fresh bones consist chiefly of the external fibrous and vascular covering termed periosteum, and of the medulla, marrow or fat, which fills their larger internal cavities. The bones are permeated by blood-vessels, and they are provided also with absorbent vessels and with nerves in small quantity. The ends of the bones, when jointed moveably with others, are covered by a thin layer of dense permanent cartilage, called articular cartilage ; and the adjacent bones are united together by fibrous ligaments which may be considered as continuous with the periosteum covering the rest of the bones. In some instances distinct bones are directly united by means of ligament or cartilage without any joint-cavity intervening. Thus the osseous system as a whole may be considered to be enveloped by a fibrous covering. The bones are originally formed by a process termed ossification, from