303 DEEP LATERAL CERVICAL MUSCLES. the atlas), and inferiorly to a rough impression on the first rib, extending from the tubercle to the groove for the subclavian artery. Fig. 206.—The deep lateral AND PP.EVERTEBRAL MUSCLES OP THE NECK FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) i a, cut surface of the basilar process; b; transverse process of the atlas ; c, transverse pro- cess of the seventh cervical vertebra; cl, body of the first, d', of the fourth dorsal ver- tebra ; e, first, and c', second rib; 1, rectus capitis anticus major muscle; 2, rectus anti- cus minor ; 3, middle part, 3', upper part, and 3", lower part of the longus colli ; 4, rectus lateralis ; 4', first pair, and 4". second pair of intertransver- sales; 5, scalenus anticus of the right side; 5', its attach- ment to the first rib on the left side; 6, scalenus medius ; 6', lower portion of the correspond- ing muscle of the left side ; 7, scalenus posticus, its superior attachments shown upon the left side ; 8, upper part of the levator scapulae drawn out from its vertebral attachments ; 9, splenius colli, shown in the same manner. Fig. 206. Relations.— In front of this muscle, between it and the anterior scalenus, are the cervical nerves and the subclavian artery : behind it are the posterior scalenus and levator anguli scapulae muscles. The scalenus posticus, smaller than the other scaleni muscles, is attached above by two or three small tendons to the transverse pro- cesses of as many of the lower cervical vertebrae, and inferiorly by an aponeurotic tendon to the second rib external to the attachment of the I levator cos tie. Varieties.—The scaleni muscles are subject to a considerable amount of varia- tion, both in the number of their points of attachment, and in the arrangement of their fibres. A slip from the scalenus anticus sometimes passes behind the subclavian artery. The scalenus posticus is not unfrequently absent. The prevertebral muscles of the cervical region are three in number, two of which pass to the head from the upper vertebra, viz., the rectus capitis anticus major and minor, and the third is confined to ver- tebral attachments, the longus colli. Along with these the rectus capitis lateralis muscle may also be described in this place. The rectus capitis anticus major muscle arises by tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebra : it is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, a little in front of the foramen magnum.