626 LUMBAR PLEXUS. the upper part of the popliteal space. Supported by the popliteal artery, and sending filaments around that vessel, the nerve then descends to the back of the knee-joint, and enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. (Thomson, “ London Med. and Surg. Journal,” Xo. xcv.) Varieties.— Occasional cutaneous nerve.—la Some instances the communicat- ing branch described above is larger than usual, and descends along the posterior border of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee, where it perforates the fascia, communicates with the internal saphenous nerve, and extends down the inner side of the limb, supplying the skin as low as the middle of the leg. hlg. 351. Fig. 351. TlIF. LUMBAR PLEXUS FROM BEFORE, WITH THE DISTRIBUTION OF some of its nerves (slightly altered from Schmidt). J «, last rib; b, quadratus lumborum limscle ; c, oblique and transverse muscles, cut near the crest of the ilium and turned down ; cl, pubis ; e, ad- ductor brevis muscle ; f, peetincus divided and turned outwards ; g, ad- ductor longus; 1, ilio-hypogastricnerve; 2, ilio-inguinal ; 3, external cutaneous ; 4, anterior crural ; 5, accessory obtu- rator ; 6, obturator, united with the ac- cessory by a loop round the pubis ; 7, genito-crural in two branches cut short near their origin ; 8, 8, lumbar portion of the gangliated sympathetic cord. When this cutaneous branch of the obturator nerve is present, the internal cutaneous branch of the interior crural nerve is small, the size of the two nerves bearing an inverse proportion to each other. Accessory obturator nerve.-—The accessory’- obturator nerve, a small and inconstant nerve, arising from the obturator nerve near its upper end, or separately from the same nerves of the plexus, descends along the inner border of the psoas muscle, over the pubic bone, and, passing behind the pectineus muscle, ends by dividing into several branches. Of these, one joins the superficial part of the obturator nerve : another penetrates the pectineus on its under surface ; while a third enters the hip-joint with the articular artery. The accessory nerve is sometimes very small, and ends in filaments which per- forate the capsule of the hip-joint. Summary.—The obturator nerve and accessory obturator give branches to the hip and knee-joints, also to the adductor muscles of the thigh, with the obturator externus, and in some cases, to the pectineus. Occasionally a cutaneous branch descends to the inner side of the thigh, and to the inner and upper part of the leg.