112 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. the head. It is shorter superiorly than interiorly, and the anterior sur- p. r 93 face is shorter than the posterior. The 1"‘ ' head forms more than half a sphere, and is covered with cartilage in the fresh state. Behind and below its central point is a small depression, which gives attachment to the interarticular liga- ment of the hip joint. Fig. 93.— Femur of a male from before. (A. T.) i 1, shaft; 2, head; 3, neck ; 4, great tro- chauter ; 5, small trochanter ; 6, anterior inter- trochanteric line; 7, internal condyle ; 8, external condyle ; 9, internal tuberosity ; x , adductor tubercle ; 10, external tuberosity ; 11, the tro- chlear or patellar surface ; above it, 12, the flat part of the femur sometimes called the supra- patellar surface ; 13, the depression for the tendon of the popliteus muscle. The great trochanter is a thick trun- cated process prolonged upwards in a line with the external surface of the shaft. In front it is marked by the insertion of the gluteus minimus; ex- ternally an oblique line directed down- wards and forwards indicates the in- ferior border of the insertion of the gluteus medius muscle, and lower down the surface is bounded by a horizontal line, continued upwards in front of the trochanter to an eminence at the junc- tion with the neck, the tubercle of the femur; the line marks the upper limit of the vastus externus. Internally at its base, and rather behind the neck, is the trochanteric or digital fossa, which gives attachment to the obturator ex- ternus muscle, while close above and in front of this is the impression of the obturator internus and gemelli muscles. The upper border of the great trochanter is narrow, and presents an oval mark for the insertion of the pyriformis ; the posterior border is prominent, and con- tinued into a strong smooth ridge, the posterior intertrochanteric line, which passes downwards and inwards to the small trochanter, and limits the neck posteriorly; above the centre the line is thickened, marking the attachment of the upper part of the quaclratus be termed the tubercle of the qiiadratus.