ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 468 The deep femoral vein, near its termination, crosses behind the femoral artery ; and the internal saphenous vein, as it ascends on the fore part of the limb, lies to the inner side ; but it not unfrequently happens that a superficial vein of considerable size ascends for some distance directly over the artery. Relation to nerves.— At the groin, the anterior crural nerve lies a little to the outer side of the femoral artery (about a quarter of an inch), being separated from the vessel by some fibres of the psoas muscle and by the iliac fascia. Lower down in the thigh, the internal saphenous nerve Fig. 278.—Dissection of the right groin, SHOWING THE FEMORAL VESSELS AND THEIR superficial branches. (R. Quain.) J a, integument of the abdomen ; b, super- ficial abdominal fascia ; b', tbe part descend- ing on tbe spermatic cord ; c, c, aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle; c', the same near the external abdominal ring; c", inner pillar of the ring ; d, iliac part of the fascia lata; d', pubic part ; e, e, crural sheath laid open, the inner letter is immediately over the crural canal; e', sartorius muscle, partially exposed ; 1, femoral artery, having 2, the femoral vein to its inner side ; the septum of the sheath is shown between the two yessels ; 3, internal saphenous vein ; 3', its anterior branch ; 4, superficial circum- flex iliac vein and arterial branches to the glands of the groin ; 5, superficial epigastric vein ; 6, external pudic vessels ; 7 to 8, some of the lower inguinal glands receiv- ing twigs from the vessels ; 9, internal, 10, middle, and 11, external cutaneous nerves. accompanies the artery in Hunter’s canal, lying along its anterior sur- face, until the vessel perforates the adductor magnus. The internal culaneous nerve also crosses the upper part of the artery at the inner border of the sartorius. Branches.—The femoral artery gives off the following branches :— some small and superficial, which are distributed to the integument and glands of the groin and ramify on the lower part of the abdomen, viz., the external pudic (superior and inferior), the superficial epigastric, and the superficial circumflex iliac; the great nutrient artery of the muscles of the thigh, named the deep femoral or profunda ; several muscu- lar branches ; and lastly, the anastomotic artery, which descends to the inner side of the knee. 1 and 2. The external pudic arteries arise either separately or by a common trunk from the inner side of the femoral artery. The superior, the more superficial branch, perforates the cribriform fascia in the saphenous opening, and courses upwards and inwards, passing in the male over the spermatic cord, to be distributed to the integument on the lower part of the abdomen and on the external organs of generation. The inferior branch, more deeply seated, runs inwards on the surface of the pectineus and adductor longus muscles (occasionally beneath the latter),