LUMBAR NERVES. 622 Fig. 349. Fig. 349.—Diagrammatic out- line OP THE LUMBAR AND SACRAL PLEXUSES WITH THE PRINCIPAL NERVES ARISING FROM THEM. (A. T.) A DXII, the divided roots nf the last dorsal nerve ; LI, to V, the roots of the five lumbar nerves ; the loops uniting the anterior primary divisions of these nerves together, and the first with the twelfth dorsal, are shown ; SI, to V, and Cl, the sacral and coccygeal nerves ; p, placed on some of the nerves marks the posterior primary divisions cut short; p, p', the plexus formed by the union of the posterior branches of the third, fourth, and fifth sacral and the coccj-geal nerves ; d, anterior division of the last dorsal nerve, from which d' the lateral cutaneous branch arises ; I, ilio-hypogastric nerve ; 1', ilio-inguinal ; 2, genito-crural ; 2', external cutaneous of the thigh ; ps, branches to the psoas muscle ; cr, anterior crural nerve; il, branches to the iliacus ; ob, obturator nerve ; ob', accessory obturator; IV', V', loop from the fourth and fifth lumbar, forming the lumbo- sacral cord ; 3, superior gluteal nerve ; sc, great sciatic nerve, continued from the sacral plexus ; 4, small sciatic nerve, rising from the plexus poste- riorly ; 4', inferior gluteal nerve ; 5, inferior pudendal ; 5', poste- rior cutaneous of the thigh and leg ; 6, 6, branch to the obtu- rator internus and gemellus su- perior ; 6', 6', branch to the gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris and hip-joint; 7, twigs to the pyriformis ; 8, pudic nerve ; 9, visceral branches ; 9', twig to the levator ani ; 10, perforating cutaneous nerve ; II, coccygeal branches. The ilio-hypogastric nerve, emerging from the upper part of the psoas muscle at the outer border, runs obliquely over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and there perforating the transverse muscle of the abdomen, gets between that muscle and the internal oblique, and divides into an iliac and a hypogastric branch. (a) The iliac branch pierces the attachment of both oblique muscles immediately above the iliac crest, and is lost in the integument over the gluteal muscles, behind the distribution of the lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve.