MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. ;02 of the pharynx, and thus to assist in approximating the posterior pillars of the fauces. The stylo-pharyngeus is the principal elevator of the pharynx and larynx. The palato-glossi, besides depressing the soft palate and elevating the tongue, also bring together the anterior pillars of the fauces, and thus shut off the mouth-cavity from the pharynx. The palato-pharyngci similarly depress the soft palate and raise the pharynx, hut their principal action is to bring together the posterior pillars of the fauces, thus separating the nasal and buccal portions of the pharynx. The azygos uvula; raises and shortens the uvula. The action of the levator palati is expressed by its name, while the tensor not only tightens and supports the soft palate against pressure from below, and against the traction of the depressor muscles, but is also, in the opinion of most anatomists, the agent by which the Eustachian tube is opened during- deglutition. It is proper, how- ever, to remark that a different view is taken by Cleland, who holds—and in this he, to some extent, agrees with Luschka—that the tube is closed during deglutition by the thickening which accompanies the contraction of the levator palati, pressing up the membranous floor of the canal against the upper and outer wall, so as completely to obliterate the opening (Journ. Anat., iii. 97). The muscles of the pharynx and soft palate are so arranged as to accomplish, in conjunction with those of the tongue and hyoid bone, the action of deglutition— that is to say, the propulsion of food into the oesophagus without any portion being permitted to pass into the nasal cavity or larynx. The first stage of this operation is effected by the mylo-hyoid, stylo-glossus and palato-glossus muscles, which press the tongue against the palate, and so force the food backwards through the isthmus of the fauces, the hyoid bone being at the same time raised by its proper elevators. The larynx is then carried upwards under the hyoid bone by the thyro-hyoid and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and the root of the tongue being drawn backwards by the stylo-glossi, the epiglottis is pressed downwards over the superior aperture of the larynx, which is thus protected. Simultaneously the soft palate is raised and fixed by its superior muscles, and the palato-pharyngei bring together the posterior pillars of the fauces, which nearly touch one another (the uvula lying in the small interval between them) and prevent the passage of the food towards the upper part of the pharynx or the posterior nares, while they form an inclined surface for its guidance into the lower part of the pharynx. The food being thus thrown into the grasp of the constrictors of the pharynx, those muscles contract rapidly from above downwards and force it into the tube of the gullet below. DEEP LATERAL AND PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES OP THE NECK. The soaleni muscles form a group of strong muscular columns, -which are usually three in number, but sometimes only two. All of them are subdivided superiorly into musculo-tendinous slips, corresponding in number with their vertebral attachments. The scalenus anticus muscle is attached superiorly to the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebra?, and interiorly by a thick flattened tendon to the scalene tubercle on the upper surface of the first rib. Relations.— This muscle is deeply placed under cover of the stemo-mastoid : on its anterior surface lie the subclavian vein, omo-hyoid muscle and phrenic nerve ; behind are the scalenus medius, the nerves of the brachial plexus, the subclavian artery and the pleura. On its inner side the rectus anticus major arises from the same transverse processes, and the ascending cervical artery lies in the groove between the two muscles, while the internal jugular vein is in front. The scalenus medius is attached superiorly to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae (sometimes not to