MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 220 condyle of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the following muscles, from the intervening fibrous septa, from the fascia covering it, and from the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint. Its mus- cular belly ends in a tendon, which, descending with that of the extensor longior, passes through the same groove of the radius with it, and is in- serted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. A small bursa is placed under the tendon close to its insertion, and there is occasionally another between the origin of the muscle and the supi- nator brevis. Relations.—Of the two foregoing' muscles the extensor longus is the more superficial. The extensor brevis covers the supinator brevis and the insertion of the pronator radii teres. The tendons of these muscles and that of the supinator longus are crossed obliquely by the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb. Varieties.—The two foregoing muscles are subject to a similar variation in being, one or other of them, split up into two or sometimes three tendons pre- vious to insertion ; the tendons of either muscle being inserted into both the second and third metacarpal bones : occasionally a slip passes also to the fourth metacarpal bone. The two muscles have been seen united, so that a single fleshy belly gives off two tendons ; and cross slips from one muscle to the other are of frequent occurrence. An additional muscle, called extensor carpi radialis accessorius by Wood, is sometimes met with, rising from the humerus below the extensor carpi radialis longior, and inserted most frequently into the metacarpal bone of the thumb, but sometimes into the abductor joollicis, first dorsal interosseous muscle, or other part. It is represented at times by a slip from the tendon of the extensor longior. The extensor communis digitorum muscle arises from the outer condyle by the common tendon, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the septa between it and the adjoining muscles. In the lower third of the forearm the muscular part ends in four tendons, which pass under the posterior annular ligament, lying in the innermost broad groove on the back of the radius, and diverge as they proceed along the carpus and metacarpus to reach the fingers. Here each is increased by tendinous fibres derived from the lumbricales and interosseous muscles, forming a fibrous expansion which covers the back of the first and second phalanges and terminates upon the third phalanx. It is attached to the second and third phalanges in the following manner. Opposite the first bone the tendon divides into three slips ; the central one is much thinner than the others, and is inserted into the base of the second phalanx ; the two lateral parts, continuing onwards, join together below and are inserted into the base of the last phalanx. The tendons to the index and little fingers, which are much smaller than the other two, are joined opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations by the special extensor tendons of those digits. On the back of the hand the four tendons are united by cross slips or vincula. That between the index and middle finger tendons is simply a thin, loose band of transverse fibres, and is not unfrequently wanting. Those on each side of the ring finger tendon are much stronger ; one passes obliquely downwards from the third (ring finger) tendon to the second, the other from the fourth tendon to the third. In consequence of this arrangement the three inner fingers are associated in their move- ments, and the ring finger can not in general be freely extended without also moving the middle one. The tendons are farther bound down over the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations by means of apo-