MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 246 The quadriceps extensor cruris extends the knee-joint ; but its action is not requisite for the maintenance of the erect attitude (see p. 176), the knee-joint remaining in complete extension without muscular aid while the foot is firmly planted on the ground. This may be tested by the fact that the patella of a person standing with the knee extended will be found to lie quite loosely, but will become at once fixed when an attempt is made to lift the foot. The rectus femoris, besides extending the knee, also flexes the hip : it acts mainly from its anterior head of origin when the thigh is fully extended, and the posterior head alone is tense when the thigh is bent. INTERNAL FEMOEAL OR ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. The gracilis or adductor gracilis muscle, long and slender, arises by an aponeurotic tendon from the inner margin of the pubic bone, along the lower half of the symphysis and the upper half of the pubic arch. Thin and flat at first, the muscle becomes narrower and thicker as it descends ; and in the lower third of the thigh it ends in a rounded tendon which curves forwards below the knee, and, becoming flattened and expanded, is inserted into the inner side of the tibia, on the same plane with but higher than the semitendinosus, and under cover of the tendon of the sartorius. Relations.—This muscle is covered by the fascia lata, except where its tendon is overlapped by the sartorius ; the deep surface rests against the adductor brevis and adductor magnus, and the tendon crosses the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. A bursa separates it from that ligament. The pectineus muscle, flat and oblong, arises from the ilio-pectineal line, and slightly from the surface of bone in front of it, between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the pubic spine ; a few superficial fibres spring also from the upper part of the fascia covering the muscle. Inclining outwards and backwards as it descends, it is inserted by a flat tendon into the femur behind the small trochanter, and into the upper part of the line which connects the linea aspera with that prominence. Relations.—The pectineus is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the pubic portion of the fascia lata and the femoral vessels ; by the posterior surface, with the obturator nerve, and the external obturator and adductor brevis muscles. Its outer border is in contact with the psoas magnus, and the internal circumflex vessels pass between the two ; its inner border touches the adductor longus. The adductor longus, a flat triangular muscle, internal to the pec- tincus, and lying in the same plane, arises by a short tendon from the body of the pubis below the crest and near the angle, and is inserted into the inner margin of the linea aspera, by an aponeurotic tendon which is closely united to the vastus internus in front and the adductor magnus behind. Relations.—This muscle is covered by the fascia lata, the sartorius, and the femoral vessels ; the posterior surface rests on the adductor brevis and adductor magnus, the deep femoral artery and the superficial portion of the obturator nerve. The outer border touches the pectineus above, but is separated from it by a small interval below; the inner border is in apposition with the gracilis and forms the inner boundary of Scarpa’s triangle. The adductor brevis, thick above and broad below, has a fleshy and tendinous origin, from the femoral surface of the body and inferior