SYMPATHETIC XERYES. 650 Posterior muscles of the teg.— The gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus, and popliteus are supplied by branches from the internal popliteal nerve ; the long deep muscles, viz., the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, and tibialis posticus, derive their nerves from the posterior tibial. Plantar muscles.—The flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor and flexor brevis hallucis, and the inner two lumbricales, are supplied by the internal plantar nerve ; all the others, including the flexor accessorius and inter- osseous muscles, are supplied by the external plantar nerve. SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The nerves of the sympathetic system are distributed in general to all the internal viscera, and to the coats of the blood-vessels. Some organs, however, receive nerves also from the cerebro-spinal system, as the lungs, the heart, and the upper and lower parts of the alimentary canal ; and it is probable that those viscera which are not supplied directly in this way receive fibres derived originally from cerebro-spinal nerves through their sympathetic plexuses. This division of the nervous system consists of a somewhat complicated collection of ganglia, cords and plexuses, the parts of which may, for con- venience, be classified in two groups, viz., the principal gangliated cords, and the great prevertebral plexuses with the nerves proceeding from them. The ganglia of union with cranial nerves, viz., the ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, otic and submaxillary ganglia, which are sometimes regarded as constituting a third division of the sympathetic system, have already been described in connection with the fifth nerve. The great gangliated cords are two in number, and each consists of a series of ganglia united by short intervening cords, sometimes double. These gangliated cords are placed symmetrically, partly in front, and partly on the side, of the vertebral column, extending from the base of the skull to the coccyx. Superiorly they are connected with plexuses which enter the cranial cavity, while interiorly they converge on the sacrum, and terminate in a loop on the coccyx. The several oortions of the cords are distinguished as cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and sacral, and in each of these parts the ganglia are equal in number, or nearly so, to the vertebrae against which they lie, except in the neck, where there are only three. Connection of the gangliated cords with the cerebro-spinal system.—The ganglia are severally connected with the anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves in their neighbourhood by means of short filaments ; each connecting filament consisting of a white and a grey portion, the former of which may be considered as proceeding from the spinal nerve to the ganglion, the latter from the ganglion to the spinal nerve. At its upper end the gangliated cord communicates likewise with certain cranial nerves. The main cords intervening between the ganglia, like the smaller filaments connecting the ganglia with the spinal nerves, are composed of a grey and a white part, the white being continuous with the fibres of the spinal nerves prolonged to the ganglia. Erom the connecting- branches with the spinal nerves minute filaments (nervi sinu-vertebrales—Luschka) are given off, which pass inwards through the inter- vertebral foramina, where they are joined each by a filament from the trunk of the corresponding spinal n rve, and arc finally distributed to the dura mater and the