327 INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. iliac crest pass forwards, the upper more obliquely and the succeeding ones more horizontally, to end in an aponeurosis on the front of the abdomen ; those from the anterior superior spine run horizontally to the same aponeurosis ; while the fibres from Poupart’s ligament, usually paler than the rest, arch downwards and inwards over the spermatic cord, or the round ligament of the uterus, and end in tendinous fibres common to them and the lower part of the transversal is muscle, thus forming the structure known as the conjoined tendon of these muscles ; through the medium of this tendon they are attached to the front of the pubis, and to the inner part of the ilio-pectineal line, behind Gimbernat’s ligament. The spermatic cord, or round ligament, passes under the arched lower borders of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles on its way from the internal to the external abdominal ring. The aponeurosis of the internal oblique may be regarded as the ex- panded tendon of the muscle continued forwards and inwards : it extends from the margin of the thorax to the pubis, and is wider at the upper than at the lower end. At the outer border of the rectus muscle they aponeurosis divides into two layers, one passing before, the other be- hind that muscle ; and the two reunite at its inner border in the linea alba, so as to enclose it in a sheath. The anterior layer, as already mentioned, becomes inseparably united with the aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle, and the posterior layer is similarly incorporated with that of the transversalis. The upper border of the posterior lamina is attached to the margins of the seventh and eighth rib-cartilages, as well as to the ensiform process. This division of the aponeurosis into two layers stops short a little above half-way between the um- bilicus and the pubis, the aponeurosis below that level remaining un- divided, and along with that of the transversalis muscle to which it is united, passing wholly in front of the rectus. The deficiency thus re- sulting in the posterior wall of the sheath of the rectus is marked superiorly by a more or less well defined lunated edge, the concavity of which looks downwards towards the pubis—the semilunar fold of Douglas. Relations.—The internal oblique muscle is almost entirely covered by the ex- ternal oblique. The hindmost part of the muscle, arising from the lumbar fascia, is under cover of the latissimus dorsi, and a small part is frequently exposed between the latissimus and the external oblique, when those muscles fail to meet at their iliac origins. Varieties.—A fibrous band or inscription is not uncommonly seen in the upper part of this muscle, prolonged forwards from the point of the tenth or eleventh rib, and a slender cartilaginous slip, separate from that of the rib, has been seen lying in this inscription. An additional slip of insertion, into the ninth costal cartilage, is occasionally present. The cremaster, a muscle peculiar to the male, consists of fibres lying in series with those of the lower border of the internal oblique muscle. It has an external and an internal attachment. The external attachment is to the inner part of Poupart’s ligament, and there its fibres are continuous with those of the internal oblique muscle : the in- ternal attachment, smaller and less constant, is by means of a tendinous band to the spine and crest of the pubis, close to the insertion of the in- ternal oblique muscle. The superior fibres of the muscle extend between these attachments in a scries of successively longer loops, descending in front of the spermatic cord, a few of them reaching as low as the level of the testicle ; the remaining fibres, the greater number of which