VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 502 which passes forwards in the groove between the corpus striatum and optic thalamus, being joined in its course by branches from both these bodies, and near its termination by veins from the septum lucidum and the anterior cornu of the ventricle. The right and left veins of Galen run backwards, lying close together between the layers of the velum inter- position, and beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum they join into a short common trunk (vena magna Galeni) which opens into the anterior extremity of the straight sinus. They receive on their way branches from the inner side of the optic thalamus and the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle, the basilar vein which ascends from the base of the brain round the outer side of the crus cerebri, and small vessels from the corpora quadrigemina and pineal body, and from the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The common trunk is also joined by veins from the inner and lower surfaces of the occipital lobe of each hemisphere, and by some small veins from the upper surface of the cerebellum. The veins of the cerebellum are disposed in two sets. The superior cerebellar veins are directed partly upwards and inwards to the straight sinus and the vena magna Galeni, partly outwards to the superior petrosal and lateral sinuses. The inferior cerebellar veins, together with the veins from the medulla oblongata and pons, enter the inferior petrosal, lateral and occipital sinuses. VENOUS SINUSES OP THE CRANIUM. The sinuses are channels contained within the substance of the dura mater, and lined by a delicate membrane which is continuous with the internal coat of the veins. They admit of a division into two groups, viz., a supero-posterior group, lodged almost entirely in the processes of the dura mater, and an infero-anterior group, situated in the base of the skull. To the former belong the superior longitudinal, the inferior longitudinal, the straight, the lateral, and the occipital sinuses : the latter includes the cavernous, the circular, the superior and inferior petrosal, and the basilar sinuses. The superior longitudinal sinus (fig. 290, 1) commences at the crista galli, where it sometimes (constantly in the child) has a com- munication with the veins of the nasal cavity through the foramen caecum, and extends backwards in the upper border of the falx cerebri, occupying the median groove on the inner surface of the calvaria, and increasing gradually in size as it proceeds. In form it is three-sided, and its cavity is bridged across by several fibrous bands, the chordae, Willisii. The superior cerebral veins open into this sinus, their apertures looking for the most part forwards, in a direction contrary to that of the current within it. It also communicates in many cases with the veins of the scalp, by means of an emissary vein which passes through the parietal foramen. As it descends on the occipital bone the superior longitudinal sinus usually deviates a little from the middle line, and inclines to one side (more frequently the right) of the internal occipital protuberance, where it becomes somewhat enlarged and bends sharply round at a right angle to be continued into the corresponding lateral sinus. This dilatation is lodged in a well-marked depression on the occipital bone, and constitutes what is termed the torcular Herophili or the confluence of the sinuses. From it a cross branch of variable size proceeds over the front of the occipital protuberance to a similar bend