SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE TRUNK. 674 the chest opposite the fifth rib (at which spot the lowest slip of the pectoralis minor often appears on the surface) and forms, as it passes upwards and outwards to the arm, the rounded anterior axillary fold. The nipple is placed over the outer and lower part of the pectoral muscle, generally between the fourth and fifth ribs, about three-quarters of an inch external to the junction of the bone and cartilage, and rather more than four inches from the middle line ; but its position varies con- siderably in different individuals, and it is not unfrequently, especially in fat persons and in females, at a much lower level. Along the middle line, the sternum is subcutaneous at the bottom of the sternal groove or f urrow between the great pectoral muscles. The furrow is interrupted towards the upper part by a slight, but distinct, transverse ridge, due to the manner in which the manubrium and body of the sternum are united together, and on each side of this the second costal cartilage, which projects forwards more than the others, continues the prominence outwards. Interiorly, the sternal furrow opens out, as the pectoral muscles diverge from one another, exposing the lower end of the body of the sternum, a spot which is always to be readily felt, and usually distinctly seen, owing to the formation of the infrasternal depression immediately below it. The infrasternal depression, (pit of the stomach, scrobiculus cordis) is a generally well marked, although variable, hollow between the seventh costal cartilages and the upper ends of the recti muscles, and is placed over the ensiform process, which is itself seldom visible on the surface. To the outer side of the pectoralis major, the ribs are covered by the serratus magnus. Of the digitations of this muscle, the first to appear, at the lower margin of the pectoralis major, is the one attached to the fifth rib; the following one, the sixth, is the largest and most prominent, and they become less marked below this. Below the pectoral muscle, the wall of the thorax is covered by the rectus abdominis internally, and the external oblique laterally, the pointed slips of the latter muscle being received between the digitations of the serratus magnus. More posteriorly, the latissimus dorsi ascends over the hinder part of the serratus, and, winding round the teres major muscle, forms the thick posterior fold of the axilla. The ribs may generally be followed without difficulty over the front and sides of the chest ; but only a very small portion of the first can be distinguished, as it is almost completely covered by the clavicle and scapula. The width of the intercostal spaces, and the form of the subcostal angle vary greatly in accordance with the shape of the chest. Thus, in a long narrow chest the lower ribs slope very much downwards and are near to one another, the subcostal angle is narrow, and the lateral margin of the thorax reaches nearly to the iliac crest. It will be remembered that the upper margin of the sternum is on a level (during expiration) with the disc between the second and third dorsal vertebrae ; the junction of the manubrium and body is opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra ; and the xiphi-sternal articulation generally corresponds to the lower part of the ninth dorsal vertebra. The apex of the lung rises above the upper limit of the thorax into the neck, where it is placed behind the interval between the two heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The height to which it extends above the clavicle ranges in ordinary circumstances from half an inch to an inch, but sometimes it is as much as an inch and three-quarters, while