SACRAL PLEXUS. 633 Branches.—In addition to the terminal offsets, viz., the great sciatic and pudic nerves, the sacral plexus gives origin to a number of collateral branches of smaller size. These are the superior gluteal, inferior gluteal, small sciatic, and perforating cutaneous nerves, and branches to the pvriformis, obturator interims, gemelli, and quadratus femoris muscles. collateral branches. Small muscular branches.—The pijriformis muscle is supplied by one or more twigs from the upper sacral nerves before they enter the plexus. The nerve of the obturator internus muscle arises from the front of the upper part of the plexus, and appears at the lower border of the pyri- formis to the inner side of the great sciatic nerve. It then turns over the ischial spine of the hip-bone with the pudic vessels, and is directed forwards through the small sacro-sciatic foramen to reach the inner sur- face of the obturator muscle. This nerve furnishes a small offset to the superior gemellus muscle. The nerve of the quadratus femoris muscle also springs from the front of the plexus, near the foregoing. Concealed at first by the great sciatic nerve, it passes beneath, the gemelli and the tendon of the a, great trochanter ; b, tensor vaginae femoris muscle ; c, tendon of the ob- turator internus muscle; cl, upper part of the vastus externus ; c, coccyx; /, gracilis muscle ; between f and cl, the adductor magnus, semitendinosus, and biceps muscles; 1, 1, upper branch of the superior gluteal nerve; 1', 1', inferior branch of the same nerve ; 1", branch of the nerve to the tensor vaginae femoris ; 2, 2, sacral plexus and great sciatic nerve ; 2', muscular twig from the plexus to the pvriformis ; 2". branch to the gemellus superior and obturator internus ; 3, small sciatic nerve ; 3', 3', placed on the upper and lower parts of the divided gluteus maximus, the branches of the inferior gluteal nerve ; 3", the cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve winding round the lower border of the gluteus maximus ; 4, the continuation of the small sciatic nerve as posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh ; 4', inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic ; 5, placed on the lower part of the sacral plexus, points to the origin of the pudic nerve ; 6, its perineal division with its muscular branches ; 6', anterior or internal superficial perineal branch ; 6posterior or external superficial perineal ; + +, distribution of these nerves and the inferior pudendal on the scrotum ; 7, dorsal nerve of the penis. Fig. 355.—Branches op the sacral PLEXUS IN THE BUTTOCK (after Hirschfehl and Leveille). 4 Fig. 355. obturator internus—between those muscles and the capsule of the hip- joint,—and reaches the deep (anterior) surface of the quadratus. It gives off a branch to the inferior gemellus muscle, and another to the back part of the hip-joint. A second filament frequently passes directly from the sacral plexus to the articulation.