313 SHORT CRANIO-VERTEBRAL MUSCLES. transverse ligaments ; ancl in the upper spaces they are usually altogether wanting. In the lumbar region there are again two sets : one set, the intertransversales laterales, lie between the transverse processes, and are in series with the levatores costarum ; the other set, intertransver- salcs mediates or interaccessorii, pass from the accessory process of one vertebra to the mammillary process of the next, and are in series with the intertransversales of the dorsal region. Short posterior cranio-vertebral muscles.—The rectus capitis posticus major muscle arises by a narrow tendon from the spinous process of the axis, and expanding as it passes upwards and outwards, is inserted into and beneath the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone. Its insertion is inside and below that of the superior oblique muscle. The rectus capitis posticus minor muscle arises from the posterior arch of the atlas by the side of the tubercle, and expands as it passes upwards to be inserted into the inner third of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, and the depression between that and the foramen magnum. The obliquus capitis inferior, the strongest of the muscles now under consideration, arises from the spinous process of the axis, between the origin of the rectus posticus major and the insertion of the semi- spinalis colli, and is inserted into the lower and back part of the transverse process of the atlas. The obliquus capitis superior, smaller than the preceding muscle, arises from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, thence inclines obliquely upwards and backwards, increasing in breadth as it ascends, and is inserted into an impression between the outer parts of the curved lines of the occipital bone. Relations.—The two oblique muscles with the rectus major form the sides of a small triangular space, in the area of which the posterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve and the vertebral artery are found. Nerves.—All the muscles of the back which act upon the head and spine, viz., the splenius, erector spinse, complexus, and the muscles more deeply seated are supplied by the posterior primary branches of the spinal nerves. Actions of the Dorsal Spinal and Cranial Muscles.—In extending the spinal column and head not only the erector spince, but all the muscles of this group come into play, necessarily acting simultaneously on both sides. Acting on one side alone they produce the lateral flexion of the column. While the action of the longitudinally directed rriuscles is limited to these movements, the oblique muscles are farther enabled to rotate the head and spinal column. Thus, when the splenius of one side acts it rotates the head and neck to the same side, while the complexus and transverso-spinales rotate the head and spine to the opposite side. The power of the extensor muscles to straighten the back from the flexed condi- tion, as measured by the muscular dynamometer, varies in adults of medium strength from 200 lbs. to 400 lbs. A certain amount of extension of the spine, as will be hereafter explained, accompanies inspiration ; but if the spine be fixed, some of the erector muscles may, by their costal attachments, depress the ribs, and thus assist in forced expiration. Of the short cranio-vertebral muscles, two—the rectus minor and superior oblique—act principally by drawing the head backwards, that being the chief movement allowed between the atlas and occipital bone ; while the principal action of the rectus posticus major and the inferior oblique, when acting on one side, is to rotate the atlas and skull upon the axis, the former muscle also assist- ing in the extension of the head.