VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 16 ridge of spines the surface formed by the united laminae is slightly grooved longitudinally, and beyond this are the four posterior sacral foramina, opposite to, but smaller than the anterior. Immediately in- ternal to each foramen is a slight eminence, which represents the articular and mammillary processes of the vertebrae above, whilst external to the foramen a more strongly marked elevation corresponds to the transverse process. The part of the sacrum external to the foramina constitutes the lateral mass, and is broad and thick superiorly, but narrowed inferiorly. The outer aspect of the upper part presents in front a large uneven surface, 1, Body of the first sacral vertebra; 4, 4, orifices of the sacral canal, and between these, the series of four united laminte and spinous processes ; 6, 6', line of tubercles corresponding to transverse processes; 7, 7', line of articular processes, with four adjacent posterior sacral foramina ; l, l, auricular surface ; in the coccyx, c, body of the last vertebra; t, transverse process ; 7, cornu or superior articular process. covered in the recent state with cartilage, which articulates with the ilium, and is called from its shape the auricular surface: behind this the bone is rough and marked with strong depressions for the attachment of ligaments. Lower down, the margin becomes nar- rowed and sinuous, terminating in the projection called the in- ferior lateral angle, below which the breadth of the bone is suddenly contracted so as to form a notch with the adjacent part of the coccyx. The base or upper surface of the first sacral vertebra bears considerable resemblance to the upper surface of the last lumbar. In the middle it presents the reniform surface of the body, behind which is the triangular aperture of the sacral canal, bounded by the depressed laminae. On each Fig. 12. Fig. 12.—Sacrum and coccyx op the MALE VIEWED FROM BEHIND. (A. T.) £ Fig. 13. Fig. 13.—Upper surface or base of the SACRUM OF A MALE. (A. T.) § 1, body; 4, foramen or sacral canal; 5, spinous process of the first sacral vertebra ; 6, part corresponding to a transverse process, in front of which is the ala ; 7, 7', superior and inferior articular processes; e, mammil- lary tubercle ; /, accessory tubercle, slightly seen. side of the aperture is an articular process, exactly resembling the supe- rior process of a lumbar vertebra. In front of this is a groove which forms with the last lumbar an intervertebral foramen. The external portion of the base presents posteriorly an eminence corresponding to the lumbar transverse process, and in front of that a large smooth curved