SACRAL VERTEBR2E. 15 tubercle of the dorsal transverse process, and is called the accessory ■process (anapophysis). The articular processes are thick and strong. Their articular surfaces are vertical; the superior, concave, look backwards and inwards, the inferior, convex, look forwards and outwards. The superior pair are further apart than the inferior, and embrace the inferior pair of the vertebra above them. From each superior articular process a tubercle projects backwards, which corresponds to the superior tubercle of the dorsal transverse process, and is called the mammillary process (rneta- pophysis). The foramen is large and triangular, or widely lozenge-shaped. The Fifth. Lumbar Vertebra is massive, the body is deeper in front than behind, the transverse processes are broad and conical, the lower articular processes are wider apart than the upper, and the laminae project into the spinal foramen on each side. Sacral Vertebrae.—These by their union in the adult form the os sacrum, but in youth they present the elements of five distinct vertebra;. The sacrum is placed below the last lumbar vertebra, and articulates laterally with the two hip-bones, thus completing together with the coccyx the wall of the pelvis above and behind. The uppermost vertebra is the largest, those which follow become rapidly smaller and the fifth is rudimentary. Hence the sacrum has the form of a triangle with its base directed upwards. It is concave and smooth in front, convex and uneven behind. The direction of its surfaces is very oblique, its ventral aspect looking considerably downwards, and forming above at the place where it joins the last lumbar vertebra, the projection termed promontory. The dorsal or posterior surface looks upwards as well as backwards. Fig. 11.—Sacrum of the male, viewed from BEFORE. 5 1, 1, four transverse ridges, indicating the place of original separation of the bodies of the five sacral vertebrae ; 2, anterior sacral foramina ; 3, 4, lateral surface ; 5, a notch which, with the coccyx, forms a passage for the fifth sacral nerve ; 6, oval surface of the upper part of the sacrum for articulation with the body of the last lumbar vertebra; 7, superior articular process; 8, inferior oval surface for articulation with the coccyx ; +, inferior lateral angle. The ventral surface is concave from above downwards, and slightly so from side to side. It is traversed horizontally by four ridges, which indicate the places of union of the bodies of the five sacral vertebrae, and at the extremities of which are situated on each side four foramina called anterior sacral. These foramina lead externally into grooves, and diminish in size from above downwards. The dorsal surface is convex, very uneven, and somewhat narrower than the ventral. It presents along the median line three or four small eminences, the spinous processes, usually more or less connected, so as to form a ridge. Below the last spinous process is a triangular opening, the termination of the spinal canal, the lateral margins of which are formed by the imperfect laminae of the fourth and fifth sacral vertebra;, and are produced downwards into a pair of tubercles, the sacral cornua, which articulate with the cornua of the coccyx. On each side of the Fig. 11.