NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. CIO either from the branch to the outer head of the gastrocnemius, or directly from the main trunk ; a considerable branch to the soleus, which enters the muscle on its posterior aspect, close to the upper border ; and a nerve to the popliteus. The last branch arises somewhat lower down, and is moi’e deeply placed, than the others ; it descends on the outer side of the popliteal vessels, and, after having given off one filament to the tibia and another to the interosseous membrane, turns beneath the lower border of the muscle, which it penetrates on the deep or anterior surface. (c) The cutaneous branch.—External or short saphenous nerve.—The cutaneous branch of the internal popliteal nerve (tibial communicatinrj nerve) descends along the leg, in the furrow between the heads of the- gastrocnemius muscle, to about midway between the knee and the foot. Here it perforates the fascia, and a little lower down is usually joined by a branch from the external popliteal nerve (peroneal communicating). After receiving this communicating branch, the external saphenous nerve descends beneath the integument near the outer side of the tendo Achillis in company with the short saphenous vein, and turns forwards beneath the external malleolus to end in the skin on the outer side of the foot and little toe. On the dorsum of the foot this nerve communi- cates with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Varieties.—In many cases, the external saphenous nerve supplies the outer- side of the fourth toe, as well as the little toe. The union between the tibial communicating nerve and the branch of the external pojiliteal nerve occurs in some cases higher than usual, occasionally even at or close to the popliteal space. It sometimes happens that the communication between the nerves is altogether- wanting ; in which case the cutaneous nerve to the foot is generally continued, from the branch of the internal popliteal nerve. Posterior tibial nerve.—The internal popliteal nerve receives the- name of posterior tibial at the lower margin of the popliteus muscle. It passes down the leg with the posterior tibial artery, lying for a short distance on the inner side of the vessel and afterwards on the outer- side, the artery inclining inwards from its origin while the nerve takes a straighter course. In the interval between the inner malleolus and the heel, it divides into the two plantar nerves (internal and external). The posterior tibial nerve, like the accompanying vessels, is covered at first by the muscles of the calf of the leg, afterwards only by the integu- ment and fascia, and it rests upon the deep-seated muscles. Branches.—The deep muscles on the back of the leg, the integument of the sole of the foot, and the ankle-joint receive branches from the posterior tibial nerve in its course along the leg. («) The muscular branches emanate from the upper part of the nerve, either separately or by a common trunk ; one is distributed to each of the deep muscles, viz., the tibialis posticus, the flexor longns digitorum, and the flexor longns hallucis ; and a second nerve is furnished to the- soleus, piercing the deep surface of the muscle. The branch which sup- plies the flexor of the great toe runs along the peroneal artery before entering the muscle, and gives off a twig to the fibula. (b) A cciIcaneo-plantar cutaneous branch is furnished from the posterior tibial nerve in the lower part of the leg ; it perforates the internal annular ligament, and ramifies in the integument at the inner side of the hinder part of the sole, and over the heel. (<") One or two articular filaments pass from the posterior tibial