ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 373 supplying the orbicular and occipito-frontal muscles, the pericranium, and the skin, and communicating with the supraorbital and frontal branches of the ophthalmic artery, as well as with offsets of the posterior branch. On the upper part of the cranium the branches of this artery are directed from before backwards. When it is desired to take blood from the temporal artery, the anterior temporal branch is selected for the operation. (/) The posterior temporal branch, which is usually larger than the an- terior, ascends on the side of the head, over the temporal fascia ; its branches ramify freely in the coverings of the cranium, both upwards to the vertex, where they communicate with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, and backwards to join with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. Varieties.—The terminal branches of the temporal artery arc frequently very tortuous, especially in aged persons. The anterior temporal branch is sometimes larger than the posterior, and, passing backwards over the vertex of the head, communicates with the occipital. The transverse facial artery varies in size ; occasionally it is much larger than usual, and takes the place of a defective facial artery. It is frequently double. In many instances the transverse artery arises directly from the external carotid (fig. 236). The orbital branch is sometimes of considerable size, and extends into the eyelids; it has been seen to commu- nicate with the supraorbital artery and supply a large part of the forehead (Cruveilhier). 8. Internal maxillary artery (iii).—1The internal maxillary or deep facial artery, the larger of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, is concealed by the parotid gland at its origin below the con- dyle of the jaw; it curves horizontally forwards between the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary joint, then passes obliquely forwards and upwards either on the outer or inner surface of the external pterygoid, and opposite the interval between the two heads of that muscle, bends inwards to the spheno-maxillary fossa, where it ends by breaking up into a number of branches. To facilitate the arrangement of its numerous branches, this artery may be divided into three parts, viz., 1, the part between the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; 2, the part in contact with the external ptery- goid muscle ; and, 3, the part in the spheno-maxillary fossa. A. Branches of the first part.—(a) The deep auricular branch, of small size, and often arising in common with the next offset, perforates the anterior wall of the external auditory meatus, and supplies the skin and outer part of the tympanic membrane. (fi) The tympanic branch, also small and variable in its origin, enters the tympanum by the fissure of Gflaser, and is distributed to the structures within that cavity and the tympanic membrane, anastomosing with the stylo-mastoid artery (see p. 375). (c) The middle or great meningeal artery (v), the largest branch of the internal maxillary, passes directly upwards under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, between the two roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve, and enters the skull by the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone. Within the cranium, it ascends towards the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and divides into two branches, which subdivide and ramify in deep arborescent grooves on the inner surface of the calvaria, passing upwards on the parietal bone as high as the vertex, forwards to the frontal bone, and backwards to the occipital bone.