INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. 459 anastomose with the offsets of the deep artery. The right and left dorsal arteries communicate freely together in the glans penis. Varieties—The pudic artery is sometimes small, and fails to supply one or two, or even three of its usual branches, which, in those circumstances, are furnished by a supplemental vessel, the accessory pudic. The defect most frequently met with is that in which the pudic ends as the artery of the bulb, while the arteries of the corpus cavernosum and dorsum of the qonis are derived from the accessory pudic. But all the three arteries of the penis may be supplied by the accessory pudic, the pudic itself ending as the superficial perineal. A single accessory pudic has been found to supply both cavernous arteries, while the pudic of the right side gave both dorsal arteries (R. Quain, pi. 63, fig. 5). On the other hand, cases have occurred in which only a single branch was furnished by the accessory artery, either to take the place of an ordinary branch altogether wanting, or to supplement one of the branches which was diminutive in size. The accessory pudic artery generally arises from the pudic itself, before the passage of that vessel through the sacro-sciatic foramen, and descends within the pelvis, along the lower part of the urinary bladder and across the side of the prostate gland, to reach the root of the penis by perforating the triangular ligament in front of the membranous part of the urethra. Less frequently the accessory pudic is derived from the inferior vesical (p. 452), or from some other branch of the internal iliac artery. It may also arise from the obturator artery within the pelvis, that vessel taking origin either from the internal iliac or the epigastric artery, and in a few cases it has been given off by the epigastric artery directly. B;ranches.—The artery of the bulb is sometimes small, sometimes wanting on one side, and occasionally it is double. But a more important deviation from the common condition is one sometimes met with, in which the vessel, arising earlier, and crossing the perineum farther back than usual, reaches the bulb from behind. In such a case there is considerable risk of dividing the artery in per- forming the lateral operation for stone. On the other hand, when this vessel arises from an accessory pudic artery, it lies farther forwards than usual, and is out of danger in case of operation. The dorsal artery of the penis has been observed to arise from the obturator artery in the thyroid foramen, from one of the external pudic branches of the femoral, or from the deep femoral artery (Tiedemann, tab. 33, fig. 1). This branch is sometimes small on one side, the deficiency being supplied by the opposite artery. The two dorsal arteries are occasionally united by a cross branch, and they have been seen uniting into a common trunk on the dorsum of the penis. The pudic artery in the female.—In the female this vessel is much smaller than in the male. It takes a similar course, but the following branches differ in their size and distribution from the corresponding arteries in the male. The superficial perineal artery is larger than in the male, and is distributed to the labia pudendi. The artery of the lull) is small, and supplies the bulb of the vestibule. The two terminal branches are much smaller than in the male. The artery of the corpus cavernosum (art. profunda clitoridis) enters that body; and the dorsal artery of the clitoris passes forwards between the crura clitoridis and terminates in the glans and in the membranous fold corresponding to the prepuce of the male. 7. The sciatic artery (iv), the larger of the two terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac, is distributed chiefly to the muscles on the back of the pelvis. It descends on the anterior surface of the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus of nerves, and issues by the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, in company with the pudic