362 ARTERIES OP THE HEAD AND NECK. scalenus anticus in the angle between the superficial cervical and suprascapular branches of the thyroid axis ; 10, outer part of the suprascapular artery ; 10', superficial cervical artery ; 10", posterior scapular artery ; 11, on the scalenus anticus, points to the inferior thyroid artery near the place where the ascending cervical artery is given off; the phrenic nerve lies on the muscle to the outside of the figure ; at i, the suprasternal twig of the suprascapular artery is shown. The left carotid is thus as a whole longer than the right, and its first part is placed at some depth within the thorax. While within the thorax, the left carotid ascends obliquely behind and at some distance from the upper piece of the sternum and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles ; it is covered in front by the remains of the thymus gland, and is crossed by the left innominate vein. This part of the artery lies at first over the trachea, and then over the oesophagus, which, at the root of the neck, deviates a little to the left side ; the thoracic duct is also behind it. The pneumo-gastric nerve is to its outer side. In the neck, the common carotid artery of each side reaches from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides into two great branches, of which one is distributed to the superficial parts of the head and to the face, and the other to the brain and eye. From their destination, these divisions are named respectively the external and internal carotid arteries. The oblique course taken by the common carotid artery along the side of the neck is indicated by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular arti- culation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. At the root of the neck, the arteries of opposite sides are separated from each other only by a narrow interval, corresponding with the width of .the trachea ; but, as they ascend, they are separated by a much larger interval, corresponding with the breadth of the larynx and pharynx. The carotid arteries have the appearance of being placed farther back at the upper than at the lower part of the neck, owing to the forward projection of the larynx above. The common carotid artery is enclosed, together with the internal jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, in a common sheath, which is continuous with the deep cervical fascia ; the nerve, artery and vein have each, however, a separate investment of connective tissue within the sheath. The artery is deeply placed at the lower part of the neck, but is comparatively superficial towards its upper end. It is covered below by the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, in addition to the platysma and the layers of fascia between and beneath the muscles ; and it is crossed opposite or near the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage by the omo-hyoid muscle. From this point upwards to its bifurcation, the vessel is covered by the common integument, the pla- tysma and fascia, and in the natural condition of the parts also by the sterno-mastoid; but in the dissected subject, in consequence of the retraction of this muscle when the fascia is removed, the upper portion of the artery is exposed in a triangular space, the sides of which are formed by the posterior belly of the digastric, the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and the sterno-mastoid muscles, and which is known as the carotid triangle. In this space the artery is crossed by the small sterno- mastoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. Posteriorly, the artery is supported by the cervical vertebrae, the longus colli and rectus anticus major muscles intervening. Hence the flow of blood through it may be commanded by pressure directed back-