MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMP. 196 magnus, so as to form a single muscle. Appearing as a detached bundle of the levator anguli scapulas there is sometimes a muscular slip passing from the transverse processes of one or two upper cervical vertebrae to the outer end of the clavicle, and representing the levator claviculcB muscle of the lower animals. Nerves of the preceding muscles.-—The trapezius muscle receives its nerves from the spinal accessory which enters it on the deep surface, after being joined by branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and from these nerves directly. The latissimus dorsi is supplied by the long subscapular nerve of the brachial plexus. The nerves of the rhomboid muscles proceed in one or some- times two branches from the fifth cervical, and the levator scapulae is supplied from the third, the fourth, and sometimes also from the fifth cervical nerves. BETWEEN THE TRUNK AND THE UPPER LIMB ANTERIORLY. Fasciae.—The superficial fascia of the pectoral region encloses the mammary gland, covering- it both in front and behind, and sending strong septa in between its lobes. Processes likewise extend forwards from the fascial investment of the gland, between the masses of fat, to the skin and nipple, thus affording support to the gland. The deep fascia of the pectoral region is for the most part thin and unimportant. Covering the pectoralis major it is attached superiorly to the clavicle and internally to the front of the sternum, while externally and below it becomes continuous with the fascia of the shoulder, of the axilla, and of the side of the chest. As a development of the deep fascia there may be specially noticed the costo-coracoid membrane, which is a strong fibrous structure, placed behind the pectoralis major, and attached superiorly to the clavicle in two layers which ensheath the subclavius muscle, and of which the posterior is blended with the front of the sheath of the axillary vessels, derived from the deep fascia of the neck. The strong lower margin of the membrane, distinguished sometimes as the costo-coracoid ligament, extends from the coracoid process to the first rib at the origin of the subclavius muscle. From this membrane a thin lamina is prolonged downwards to the pectoralis minor, which it invests ; and being continued beyond that muscle, it stretches across as a firm membrane between the pectoralis minor and the short head of the biceps, and ends below by joining the axillary fascia near the lower border of the pectoralis major. The axillary fascia is a strong membrane stretched across the axilla, and so disposed as to maintain the skin in position over that hollow. Commencing at the lower border of the pectoralis major, where it is continuous with the fascia covering that muscle, it is joined by the layer descending from the pectoralis minor, and is by this means drawn upwards into the intermuscular hollow ; thus strengthened it slopes outwards and backwards to the posterior fold of the axilla, where it is continued into the sheaths of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles. In the deepest part of the axilla the fascia is perforated by numerous lymphatic vessels. At the outer side, occupied by the large vessels and nerves of the limb, it is continuous with the sheath of the vessels and with the aponeurosis of the arm. The density of this fascia offers a considerable obstacle to the progress of axillary abscesses to the surface. Muscles.—The pectoralis major muscle consists of two portions, clavicular and sterno-costal, which are separated at their origin by a slight interval opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, but are united ex- ternally at the insertion of the muscle. The clavicular portion arises from an impression occupying the inner half of the anterior surface of