377 SUPERFICIAL TEMPORAL ARTERY. (b) The prevertebral branches, small and irregular, are distributed to the longus colli and recti antici muscles, to the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve and some of the cranial nerves as they issue from the skull, and to lymphatic glands. Some of them anastomose with the ascending cervical branch of the subclavian artery. (c) The meningeal branches are terminal twigs, which pass through the foramen lacerum, jugular foramen, and anterior condylar foramen, to end in the dura mater. Varieties.—-This artery varies greatly in its place of origin from the external carotid. It sometimes springs from the occipital, from the internal carotid, or from the bifurcation of the common carotid artery. It is occasionally double, and in a few cases three arteries have been seen. 7. Superficial temporal artery (iv).—The superficial temporal artery, one of the two branches into which the external carotid finally divides a little below the condyle of the lower jaw, continues upwards the direction of the main trunk, while the other branch (the internal maxillary) curves forwards under cover of the jaw. The temporal artery is at first embedded in the substance of the parotid gland, in the interval between the meatus of the ear and the condyle of the lower jaw. Thence it ascends over the posterior root of the zygoma, against which it may, readily be compressed. From this point onwards, it lies close beneath the skin, upon the temporal fascia ; and, a variable distance above the zygoma, it divides into two branches, which again subdivide and ramiiy beneath the integument on the side and upper part of the head. Branches.—Besides several small offsets to the parotid gland, some branches to the articulation of the lower jaw, and one or two to the masseter muscle, the temporal artery gives off the following branches :— (a) The transverse facial artery. This branch arises while the temporal artery is deeply seated in the parotid gland, beneath the anterior part of which it runs nearly horizontally forwards ; placed above the parotid duct, it rests on the masseter muscle, and is accompanied by some transverse branches of the facial nerve. It gives small vessels to the parotid gland, the masseter muscle, and the neighbouring integu- ment ; and divides into three or four branches, which are distributed to the side of the face, anastomosing with the buccal, infraorbital and facial arteries. (b) The middle temporal branch arises close above the zygoma. Im- mediately perforating the temporal fascia, it ascends in a slight groove on the squamous part of the temporal bone and gives branches to the temporal muscle, which communicate with the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. (c) The anterior auricular branches, two or more in number, superior and inferior, are distributed to the fore part of the pinna, the lobule of the ear, and a part of the external meatus, anastomosing with the ramifi- cations of the posterior auricular artery. (d) The orbital branch, sometimes arising from the middle temporal, runs forwards above the zygoma to supply the outer part of the orbicu- laris palpebrarum muscle and the skin. This branch varies much in size, and it is not unfrequently absent. if) The anterior temporal branch is one of the two terminal branches of the temporal artery. This vessel inclines forwards as it ascends over the temporal fascia, and ramifies extensively upon the fore part of the head,