SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE LOWER LIMB. 690 digital branches given off by the radial artery to the thumb and index linger are deeply placed in the palm, the collateral arteries of the thumb becoming superficial at the base of the first phalanx, that of the index finger issuing from behind the adductor pollicis. The latter branch is not unfrequently derived from the radial artery at the back of the wrist, and may then be felt pulsating as it descends on the posterior surface of the abductor indicis muscle to its destination. The superficial volar artery is occasionally visible as it descends over the upper part of the thenar to the palm. SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE LOWER LIMB. THE HIP. The region of the hip, gluteal region or buttock, extends from the subcutaneous iliac crest and the origin of the gluteus maximus muscle above to the fold of the nates, produced by the thick lower margin of the gluteus maximus, below. The surface is formed posteriorly by the gluteus maximus, which is generally covered by a considerable quantity of fat, and laterally by the gluteus medius, together with, at the fore- most part, the tensor vaginae femoris. The latter muscle may be recognized forming a distinct prominence below the anterior part of the iliac crest, especially if the thigh be abducted or rotated inwards. The iliac crest is represented on the surface, in muscular subjects, by a groove (iliac furrow), in consequence of the projection of the external oblique muscle above, and, to a less extent, of the gluteus medius below. Traced forwards, this furrow terminates at the anterior superior iliac spine, which is always easily recognized ; posteriorly, the furrow becomes less marked as the crest passes below the tendinous portion of the erector spinse, but a slight depression always indicates the position of the posterior superior spine. The latter point is on a level with the spinous process of the second sacral vertebra, and immediately behind the centre of the sacro-iliac articulation. From three to four inches below the iliac crest, and somewhat in front of its central point, the great trochanter is to be felt, and in thin persons seen. The trochanter projects outwards farther than the iliac crest, but it does not usually appear as a prominence on the surface owing to the great thickness of the gluteus medius and minimus muscles, which occupy the hollow between it and the ilium. It is entirely covered by the aponeurotic insertion of the upper part of the gluteus maximus, and its upper border, which is generally on a level with the centre of the hip-joint, is obscured by the tendon of the gluteus medius descending to its insertion on the outer side of the process. Immediately behind the great trochanter is a well-marked depression, where the lower portion of the gluteus maximus, after passing over the ischial tuberosity, becomes tendinous and sinks in to be inserted into the shaft of the femur. Beneath the lower border of the gluteus maximus, the tuberosity of the ischium is to be felt, and when the hip is flexed this process is to a great extent uncovered by the muscle. A line drawn over the outer surface of the hip from the anterior superior iliac spine to the most prominent part of the ischial tuberosity is known as Nelaton’s line, and will be found to pass over the top of the great trochanter and cross the centre of the acetabulum. It thus forms a guide to the natural position of the upper end of the femur, and is consequently of service in detecting- dislocations of the hip.