SURGICAL ANATOMY OF BRACHIAL ARTERY. 415 sents the variety referred to on p. 408, in which several of the large branches are arising by a common trunk. Branches.—It has been already mentioned that the superior profunda may give origin to the posterior circumflex artery, and that its own origin is sometimes transferred to a branch arising from the axillary artery. Fig. 252.—Aberrant artery, leaving the brachial AT THE MIDDLE OF THE ARM, PASSING WITH THE MEDIAN NERVE THROUGH THE INTERNAL INTER- MUSCULAR SEPTUM, AND JOINING THE ULNAR. (R. Qiiain.) £ a, biceps muscle; h, triceps; c, c, divided pronator teres; d, d, d', median nerve, diverted from its usual course, and passing with the aberrant artery through the internal intermuscular septum ; e, e, e, ulnar nerve ; 1, brachial artery, giving off the aberrant artery at the middle of the arm ; 2, radial artery ; 3, aberrant artery, with the median nerve crossing it, passing at 3', through the internal intermuscular septum ; 3", the same farther down, and communicating at 4' with the first part of the ulnar artery, 4. The inferior profunda is occasionally absent, and on that account has not been recognised by some anatomists as a regular branch of the bra- chial artery. It is frequently united at its origin with the superior profunda. The anastomotic artery is sometimes much re- duced in size, and in that case the inferior pro- funda takes its place behind the humerus. SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. The brachial artery may be easily reached for the application of a ligature in any part of its course. In the middle third of the arm its position on the inner side of the biceps muscle, where its pulsation may be felt, is a sufficient guide for the incision. From the thinness of the parts covering the artery, however, and the proximity of superfi- cial veins, especially the basilic, the integuments and fascia must be divided with caution. When the fascia has been cut through, the median nerve generally comes into view, as it lies in front of the artery. Occasionally it is found necessary to divide some muscular fibres before the artery is reached. In the lower third of the arm, the median nerve being placed to the inner side, the artery is mpre fully exposed after division of the fascia, but here care is necessary in passing the ligature round the artery, to avoid the venae comites or their communicating cross branches, which cling very closely to the artery. From the very frequent occurrence of varieties in the mode of division of the brachial artery into the vessels derived from it, the surgeon must be prepared for many deviations from the usual condition of the parts, and especially for the presence of two arteries in place of one in the lower third of the brachial region. In such cases the two arteries are most frequently close together and nearly parallel, and it will be easy to tie both vessels, should this be rendered necessary by the nature of the injury for which the operation is performed. But, as will be seen from what has previously been said of the abnormal forms of the brachial artery, the position of one or both the vessels may be subject to very considerable varia- tion in different instances; and in some of these, while one of the vessels is near