504 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. sinus with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, while posteriorly it discharges its blood into the petrosal sinuses. It is also joined by some inferior cerebral veins, and by a small vessel named the spheno- parietal sinus (Breschet), which, after receiving a branch from the dura mater and communicating with the middle meningeal veins, runs inwards in a slight groove on the under surface of the small wing of the sphenoid bone. Fig. 292. Fig. 292.—Internal view of the base of tiie skull, showing the sinuses of the DURA MATER, '&C. (A. T.) ^ The tentorium has been removed, and also a small portion of the roof of the orbit posteriorly on the left side, so as to bring into view the sinuses, which are laid open, the arteries at the base of the skull, and the trunks of the cranial nerves. I, olfactory bulb ; II, the optic nerves ; III, third nerve; IV, trochlear nerve ; V, placed opposite to the middle of the three divisions of the fifth nerve ; VI, sixth nerve ; VII, facial and auditory nerves ; VIII, placed opposite to the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- gastric and spinal accessory nerves ; IX, hypoglossal nerve ; 1, right internal carotid artery as it makes its turn within the cavernous sinus in the groove of the sphenoid bone ; 2, its ophthalmic branch ; 3, right and left posterior cerebral arteries, from the former of which the posterior communicating artery is seen passing forwards to the internal carotid ; 4, basilar artery ; 5, vertebral arteries giving off the anterior spinal ; x , middle menin- geal artery spreading upwards from the foramen spinosum ; 6, superior petrosal sinus ; 7, inferior petrosal sinus ; 8, termination of the lateral sinus at the jugular foramen ; 8', commencement of the lateral sinus ; 9, occipital sinus, in this case of large size ; 10, torcular Herophili, and below that number in the figure, the superior longitudinal sinus. The circular sinus is the name given to a venous ring surrounding the pituitary body in the sella turcica, and formed by two transverse