SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE CHEST. G7? to what is known as the deep cardiac did mss, although the latter can hardly be traced above the third costal cartilages ; the superficial cardiac dulness corresponds to that part of the heart which is uncovered by lung, and thus begins at the inner end of the fourth left cartilage, extends to the left almost to the apex, to the right as far as the middle line, and below merges into the dulness which answers to the liver. The pulmonary orifice is placed opposite the upper margin of the third left costal cartilage, close to the sternum, whence the artery proceeds up- wards to its bifurcation behind the second costal cartilage of the same side, which is therefore termed the -pulmonary cartiku/e. The orifice of the aorta is below and a little internal to the pulmonary orifice, being behind the sternum, close to the lower border of the third left cartilage ; from this spot the ascending part of the arch passes across to the right edge of the sternum opposite the second (aortic) cartilage, and the transverse part then returns to the left side, crossing the middle line about an inch from the suprasternal depression. Opposite the middle point of the manubrium, the innominate and left common carotid arteries are arising close together from the upper border of the arch of the aorta, and they pass symmetrically upwards, the innominate to the back of the right, and the carotid to the back of the left steruo-clavicular articulation. The superior vena cava lies to the right of the arch, behind the inner ends of the first and second intercostal spaces ; and the left innominate vein, resting on the upper border of the arch, is just below the upper margin of the sternum. It sometimes happens, however, especially in children, that the arch of the aorta is placed at a higher level than usual, and then the left innominate vein projects upwards into the neck. In other cases the innominate artery is longer than usual, and may be felt pulsating in the suprasternal fossa. The auriculo-ventricular openings of the heart are lower down than the arterial orifices, being behind the sternum, the left opposite the fourth costal cartilage, the right opposite the fourth interspace. The internal mammary artery descends behind the costal cartilages, and across the inner ends of the upper six intercostal spaces, about half an inch from the margin of the sternum ; and there is occasionally another considerable artery running downwards on the inner surface of the ribs along the side of the thorax (p. 401). The intercostal vessels are lodged for the greater part of their extent in the grooves beneath the lower edges of the ribs, by which they are thus protected. THE ABDOMEN. The superficial limits of the abdomen are formed above by the lower margin of the thorax, and below by Poupart’s ligament and the iliac crest on each side, the former corresponding to the curved inguinal furrow. The abdominal cavity, however, extends considerably beyond these limits, both upwards into the vault of the diaphragm, under cover of the lower ribs and their cartilages, and downwards into the hollow of the pelvis. The abdomen is arbitrarily divided into nine regions by two horizontal and as many vertical lines. The horizontal lines are drawn, one at the level of the lowest part of the wall of the thorax on each side, and the other between the highest points of the iliac crests : the vertical lines pass upwards on each side from the middle of Poupart’s ligament. Of the spaces bounded by these lines, the three central ones are called