2S8 MUSCLES OF TIIE HEAD AND NECK, SUBCUTANEOUS MUSCLE OP THE NECK. The platysma myoides (fig. 193, 14) is a pale-coloured thin sheet of muscular fibres, superficial to the deep cervical fascia, and extending over the front and side of the neck and lower portion of the side of the face. Its fibres rise by thin bands from the subcutaneous tissue over the upper part of the deltoid, pectoral, and trapezius muscles; thence they proceed upwards and inwards over the clavicle and the side of the neck, gradually converging and approaching the muscle of the opposite side. The greater number of the fibres are inserted into the outer surface of the lower jaw from the mental prominence to the attachment of the nrasseter ; some of the inner fibres mingle with those of the opposite platysma in front of the symphysis, and the innermost fibres of all cross from the one side to the other below the chin, those of the right side being generally superficial, and are attached to the lower border of the jaw opposite the mental prominence ; the posterior fibres are pro- longed upon the side of the face as far as the angle of the mouth, blending with the depressor anguli oris and orbicularis muscles. Varieties.—The muscular fibres of the platysma sometimes extend upwards on the face and downwards on the neck, shoulder and breast farther than usual; and they occasionally take attachment to the clavicle. The upper part of the muscle is occasionally joined by a slip from the mastoid process, or from the occipital bone, and the frequently occurring- muscular fasciculus known as the occipitalis minor, springing from the fascia over the upper end of the trapezius, and ending- similarly over the insertion of the stemo-mastoid, is probably a less developed form of this accessory slip of the platysma. Suppression of the platysma on one or both sides is recorded by Macalister. This muscle is the representative in man of a subcutaneous group of muscles, the panniculus carnosus, largely developed in most mammals, by which very varied movements of the skin and some superficial parts may be effected, as, for example, when the horse communicates a rapid motion to the skin to free itself from insects, or the dog shakes off the water after swim- ming, or the hedgehog elevates its spines. Nerves.—The platysma receives its principal motor nerves from the descending branches of the facial, but as this unites -with the superficial cervical nerve it may also be influenced through some of the spinal nerves. Action.—The platysma raises the skin of the breast and shoulder and draws the angle of the mouth forcibly downwards and outwards ; at the same time it carries the skin of the neck forwards, reducing the angle between the chin and neck. The muscle is put into action in swallowing, and is also called into play in expressing sudden terror. MUSCLES AND PASCIZE OP THE NECK ANTERIORLY. Fascia:.—The deep cervical fascia passes forwards from the upper border of the trapezius muscle over the side and front of the neck beneath the platysma myoides. Posteriorly it is continuous with the layers of connective tissue by which the trapezius and deeper muscles are invested ; it extends over the posterior triangle of the neck, viz., the space bounded by the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles and the clavicle : at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid it divides into two layers, which form an investment for that muscle ; these unite again at the anterior border into a membrane which passes forwards to the middle line, wdiere it becomes continuous with the fascia of the opposite side, and covers the area bounded by the middle line, the border of the jaw, and the sterno-mastoid muscle, and called