TRAPEZIUS.—LATISSIMUS DORSI. 191 spines of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae, as well as from the supraspinous ligament. From this extended line of origin the fibres converge to their insertion : the superior fibres, descending and turning forwards in the neck, are inserted into the outer third of the clavicle at its posterior border; the succeeding fibres pass transversely to the inner border of the acromion process and upper border of the spine of the scapula, while the inferior fibres, ascending obliquely, terminate in a flat tendon which glides over the triangular area at the base of the spine of the scapula, and is inserted into the rough mark near the root of the spine. The greater part of the line of origin presents only a small admixture of tendinous fibres, but opposite the seventh cervical spine, and for the distance of several vertebrae above and below that point, a flat tendon extends outwards, widest at the middle of the space and narrowing towards the upper and lower ends, so that the apo- neuroses of the two muscles taken together have an elliptical form. The fibres of origin from the occipital bone have little or no tendinous lustre. The muscles of the two sides have together the form of a four- sided figure, or shawl or cowl, pointing downwards : hence the name of cucullaris which has been given to it. Relations.—The trapezius is superficial in its whole extent: it covers the splenius, the greater part of the complexus appearing above the splenius, the levator anguli scapulae, the rhomboidei, the supraspinatus, and small portions of the infraspinatus and latissimus dorsi. The spinal accessory nerve and the superficial cervical artery pass into it on its deep surface. Varieties.—The trapezius is subject to considerable variations in its attach- ments : it is not unfrequently shorter than above described, and the number of dorsal vertebrae with which it is connected is sometimes diminished to six or even fewer. Its occipital attachment may be wanting ; and occasionally a separation exists between its cervical and dorsal portions. The insertion into the clavicle is sometimes continued forwards to meet the stemo-mastoid muscle. The latissimus dorsi muscle arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the lower six or seven dorsal vertebra, and from the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, through the medium of which it is attached to the lumbar and sacral spines and back part of the iliac crest; it also arises by short tendinous fibres for an inch or more from the iliac crest in front of the outer margin of the lumbar apo- neurosis, and from the last three or four ribs by narrow fleshy slips which interdigitate with the attachments of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres at the upper part are the shortest, and pass almost horizontally outwards over the lower angle of the scapula, from which they generally receive a small slip of fleshy fibres ; those lower down become longer and pass more obliquely upwards; finally, those which are attached to the ribs ascend almost vertically. By this convergence the fibres of the muscle come to form a narrow band of some thickness, which, accompanying the teres major towards the axilla, winds round the lower and outer border of that muscle so as finally to be placed in front of it. It terminates in a flat tendon of less than an inch and a half in breadth, which is adherent at its lower border to that of the teres major, but is again detached from it previous to its in- sertion, a synovial bursa intervening between them. The tendon is attached to the floor of the bicipital groove of the humerus, a little higher than the insertion of the teres major. From this twisting of the muscle upon