SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 403 part of the artery, and ordinarily does not come into view during the operation The nerve to the subclavius may be exposed on the front of the artery, and if so is to be carefully preserved, since it not unfrequently furnishes an accessory root to the phrenic nerve. The latter nerve itself has also been seen crossing the third part of the artery. With reference to the choice of the exact place at which the ligature is to be passed round this part of the artery, it should always be borne in mind that in the majority of cases a considerable branch is given off from the main trunk in the immediate neighbourhood of the outer border of the scalenus muscle. This branch is most frequently the posterior scapular ; but in rarer cases it may be the superficial cervical or suprascapular, or even the internal mammary. The second division of the subclavian artery is the part which rises highest in the neck, and on this account it may be advantageously selected for the applica- tion of a ligature when the vessel is difficult of access beyond the muscle. The chief objections to operating on this part of the artery arise from the contiguity of the large branches, and its close connection with the pleura. The steps of the operation are similar to those described above, but the primary incision is made somewhat farther inwards, and it will be necessary to divide the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid and the scalenus anticus muscles. In doing this, care must be taken not to injure the anterior jugular vein and the phrenic nerve, and it is farther advisable not to carry the incision through the whole breadth of the scalenus, but to leave the inner portion of the muscle undivided, in order to avoid wounding the internal jugular vein or the branches of the thyroid axis. Difficulties may arise from the occurrence of an unusual position of the artery, as when it passes through the substance of the anterior scalenus, or when it is in front of that muscle ; but such cases are of very rare occurrence. The. first part of the subclavian artery on the left side may be said to be inaccessible for the application of a ligature, in consequence of its depth and its close connection with the lung and other important structures, such as the internal jugular and innominate veins, and the thoracic duct. On the right side, though deeply placed and closely connected with important parts, the first division of the subclavian artery may be tied in the interval between the common carotid artery and the internal jugular vein without extreme difficulty. But inasmuch as the distance between the bifurcation of the innominate on the one hand, and the origin of the vertebral artery on the other, seldom measures more than an inch, and is often much less, the success of the operation is exceedingly doubtful. In order to place a ligature on the portion of the right subclavian artery here referred to, it is necessary to divide the three muscles which cover it, together with the layers of fascia between and beneath them. In doing this the anterior jugular vein must be avoided, and the suprasternal branch of the suprascapular artery will probably require to be secured. In the farther steps of the operation, the exact relations of the artery to the internal jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric nerve, and the pleura, are to be well kept in view. It is to be remembered also that the first part of the right subclavian artery is occasionally more deeply placed than usual; as in those cases in which it springs from the back part of the aortic arch, or, more frequently, when it merely sepa- rates from the innominate behind the carotid. The circulation in the subclavian artery may be arrested by pressure directed backwards and downwards in the supraclavicular fossa, so as to compress the third part of the vessel against the subjacent first rib. Collateral circulation.—After ligature of the third part of the subclavian artery, blood is supplied to the upper limb through the anastomoses upon the scapula between the suprascapular, posterior scapular and subscapular arteries, and those formed by branches of the internal mammary and intercostal arteries with the thoracic branches of the axillary artery. After ligature of the first part of the artery, blood is conveyed to the distal portion of the trunk mainly by the vertebral artery, to a less extent by the inferior thyroid, internal mammary and superior intercostal arteries: the axillary artery receives blood also through the anastomoses formed by its thoracic branches, and the fore part of the thoracic wall is supplied by the intercostal and epigastric arteries. D D 2