195 Fig. 157. LEVATOR ANGULI SCAPULJE. Fig. 157.—Deeper view of the The levator anguli scapulae arises by slightly tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four or live The trapezius, latissimus dorsi, •deltoid, gluteus maximus and ex- ternal oblique muscles have been removed. The bones are lettered as in the preceding figure. 1, splenius capitis ; 1', lower end of splenius colli; 2, complexus near its insertion; 3, levator anguli scapulae ; 4, rhomboideus minor ; above it +, a part of the serratus posticus superior ; 5, rhomboideus major ; 6, part of the longissimus dorsi; 6', part of the tendons of insertion of the ilio-costalis ; 7, part of the spinalis dorsi; 8, upper, and 8', lower part of the serratus posticus inferior ; 9, internal ob- lique muscle ; 10, supraspinatus ; 11, infraspinatus; 12, placed upon the long head of the triceps, points to the teres minor; 13, teres major; 14, serratus magnus ; 15, gluteus medius ; 16, pyriformis ; 17, portion of the obturator in- terims ; + and +, superior and in- ferior gemelli; 17', the intrapelvic portion of the obturator internus ; 18, tendon of the obturator externus passing to its insertion ; 19, quad- ratus femoris ; 20, upper part of the adductor magnus. upper cervical vertebras, be- tween the attachments of the splenius and scaleni muscles, and forms an elongated fleshy mass which is inserted into the base of the scapula from the spine to the superior angle. Varieties. — The number of vertebral attachments of the levator anguli scapulae is sub- ject to frequent variations. A slip has been observed to extend to it from the occipital or from the mastoid process of the tem- poral bone. It often appears as a divided muscle, the parts connected with the several ver- tebrae remaining separate, even to the place of insertion. It is occasionally connected by slips with the trapezius scalene, or serrated muscles. In quadrupeds it is united with the serratus o 2 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK, shoulder and hip. (After Bour- gery.) (A.T.) J