SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 400 far as to the interval between the sixth and seventh cartilages, where it ends by dividing into two branches, which are known as the musculo- phrenic and superior epigastric arteries. The internal mammary artery is covered at its origin by the subclavian vein ; and as it passes forwards it arches round the upper end of the innominate vein, and is crossed from without inwards by the phrenic nerve. In the chest it has the costal cartilages and the internal intercostal muscles in front, and lies at first upon the pleura ; but lower down it is separated from the pleura by the triangularis sterni muscle. This artery has two companion veins, which are united into a single trunk at the upper part of the chest. Branches.—(a) The superior ‘phrenic artery or comes nervi phrenici, a very slender but long branch, arises from the artery at the upper part of the thorax, and descends, in company with the phrenic nerve, between the pleura and pericardium, to the diaphragm. It gives small offsets to the pericardium, and its terminal branches supply the fore part of the diaphragm and anastomose with the inferior phrenic (from the aorta) and musculo-phrenic arteries. (b) The mediastinal branches, of very small size, ramify in the loose connective tissue of the mediastinal space, and supply the thymus body or its remains. Pericardial branches are given off to the pericardium ; and branches named sternal are supplied to the triangularis sterni muscle, and to the posterior surface of the sternum. These small vessels form with offsets from the superior phrenic, bronchial, and intercostal arteries a fine wide-meshed network beneath the pleura, to which Turner has given the name of suhpleural mediastinal plexus (Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., Jan., 18G5). (c) The anterior intercostal arteries, two in each of the upper six spaces, arise from the internal mammary, either separately, or by a trunk common to the two, which soon divides. The arteries pass outwards, at first between the pleura and the internal intercostal muscles, and afterwards between the two layers of intercostals ; they lie, one near the upper and one near the lower rib, and inosculate with the corresponding branches derived from the aortic intercostals. These branches supply the inter- costal and pectoral muscles, and give some offsets to the mamma and integument. (d) The anterior or perforating branches pass forwards through the upper six intercostal spaces, and turning outwards ramify partly in the pectoralis major, and partly in the integument on the front of the chest. Those placed nearest to the mammary gland snpply that organ, and in the female they are of comparatively large size, especially during lactation. Some small offsets ramify on the sternum. (e) The musculophrenic artery, the outer of the two branches into which the internal mammary divides, inclines downwards and outwards behind the cartilages of the asternal ribs, perforating the attachment of the diaphragm at the eighth or ninth cartilage, and becoming gradually reduced in size as it reaches the tenth or eleventh intercostal space. It gives branches backwards into the diaphragm ; others, which pass out- wards to form the anterior intercostals of the lower spaces, and are dis- posed precisely like those which are derived higher up from the main trunk ; and some which descend into the abdominal muscles. (/) The abdominal branch, or superior epigastric artery, descends between the sternal and costal portions of the diaphragm into the wall of the abdomen, where it lies at first behind the rectus, between the