HYPOGLOSSAL NEE YE. 587 pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches, and into the trunk of that nerve below the ganglion in the manner already described. The external or spinal portion (fig. 332, 5), after issuing from the jugular foramen, is directed backwards across the front of the internal jugular vein, and perforates the sterno-mastoid muscle, supplying this with branches, and joining amongst the fleshy fibres with the nerve furnished to the muscle from the cervical plexus. Descending in the next place obliquely across the posterior triangular space of the neck behind the sterno-mastoid, the nerve passes beneath the trapezius muscle. Here it forms a kind of plexus with branches of the third and fourth cervical nerves, and distributes filaments to the trapezius, which extend nearly to the lower border of the muscle. Varieties.—The external portion of the spinal accessory nerve frequently crosses behind the internal jugular vein. It is also found sometimes passing beneath the sterno-mastoid without piercing the muscle. In one instance this nerve has been seen terminating in the sterno-mastoid muscle, the trapezius being supplied entirely by the third and fourth cervical nerves (Cumow). XII.—HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. The. hypoglossal or twelfth cranial nerve (ninth pair of Willis) arises from the medulla oblongata by a series of from ten to fifteen fine roots which emerge along the groove separating the pyramid from the olivary body. The filaments are directed outwards above (or behind) the vertebral artery, and are usually collected into two bundles which perforate the dura mater separately opposite the anterior condylar foramen, and are united into a single trunk as they pass through that opening. As it leaves the anterior condylar foramen the nerve is very deeply placed on the inner side of the deep cervical vessels and the pneumo- gastric nerve. Winding round the lower ganglion of the last, to which it is closely bound by connective tissue, the hypoglossal nerve descends, inclining at the same time gradually forwards between the internal carotid artery and jugular vein, to the lower border of the digastric muscle. At this level it curves forwards round the commencement of the occipital artery, the sterno-mastoid branch of which turns down- wards over the nerve, and is thence directed forwards above the hyoid bone to the under part of the tongue. In the latter part of its course, it passes beneath the tendon of the digastric, the lower end of the stylo-hyoid and the mylo-hyoid muscles ; it crosses the external carotid and the lingual arteries ; and it rests upon the hyo-glossus muscle, being accompanied by the ranine vein of the tongue. At the anterior border of the hyo-glossus it is connected with the lingual branch of the fifth nerve, and then penetrates the fibres of the genio-glossus muscle, dividing into branches which are distributed to the muscular substance of the tongue. Branches.—While passing through the anterior condylar foramen, the hypoglossal nerve gives off one or two minute twigs which ramify in the dura mater around the foramen magnum, and in the diploe of the occipital bone (Luschka). The branches arising from the nerve in the neck are partly filaments of communication with other nerves, but mainly offsets of distribution to muscles connected with the hyoid bone and larynx, and to the muscles of the tongue.