557 OPHTHALMIC NERVE. on the hack of the nasal hone, to terminate as the anterior or superficial branch in the integument of the lower part of the nose. (a) The branch to the ophthalmic ganglion, very slender, and from a quarter to half an inch in length, arises generally between the heads of the external rectus. It lies on the outer side of the optic nerve, and enters the upper and back part of the ganglion, constituting its long root. (h) The long ciliary nerves are situated on the inner side of the optic nerve; they join one or more of the short ciliary branches from the ophthalmic ganglion, and, after perforating the sclerotic coat of the eye, are distributed in the same manner as those nerves. (c) The infrairochlear nerve runs forwards along the inner side of the orbit, below the superior oblique muscle, and parallel to the supra- trochlear nerve, from which it receives, near the pulley of the oblique muscle, a filament of connection. The nerve is then continued below the pulley to the inner angle of the eye, and ends in filaments which supply the conjunctiva, the caruncle, and the lachrymal sac, as well as the integument of the eyelids and root of the nose (fig. 32(3, 22). (cl) The internal or segctal branch (fig. 314, 2), supplies the pituitary membrane over the fore part of the septum, extending dowards nearly as far as the opening of the nostril. (c) The external branch (fig. 321, 2), often represented by two or three filaments, is distributed to the mucous membrane of the fore, part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa, including the anterior ends of the middle and lower turbinate bones. ( f) The anterior or superficial branch (fig. 326, 2-1) issues between the nasal bone and the upper lateral cartilage of the nose, and runs down- wards under cover of the compressor naris muscle to the tip of the nose, supplying the skin of the lower part of the organ. Varieties.—The nasal nerve occasionally (frequently, Krause) gives filaments to the superior and internal recti muscles. A branch to the levator palpebrae superioris has also been met with (Fasebeck). Offsets from the nasal nerve, as it traverses the anterior internal orbital canal, to the frontal sinus and ethmoidal cells are described by Meckel and Langenbeck, and a spheno-ethmoidal (Luschka) or posterior ethmoidal (Krause) branch is said to pass through the posterior internal orbital canal to the mucous membrane of the sphenoidal sinus and posterior ethmoidal cells. Summary.—The first division of the fifth nerve is altogether sensory in function. It furnishes branches to the eyeball and the lachrymal gland ; to the mucous membrane of the nose and eyelids ; to the integu- ment of the nose, the upper eyelid, the forehead, and the upper part of the hairy scalp. It has communications with the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, with numerous branches of the facial, and with the sympathetic. Ophthalmic Ganglion. There are four small ganglia connected with the divisions of the fifth nerve : the ophthalmic ganglion with the first, Meckel’s ganglion with the second, and the otic and submaxillary ganglia with the third. These ganglia, besides receiving branches from the sensory part of the fifth, are each connected with a motor nerve from the third, the fifth, or the facial, and with twigs from the sympathetic; and the nerves thus joining the ganglia are named their roots.