OSTEOLOGY. 8 soft substance. This process commences in the greater number of bones in cartilage ; in some it begins in fibrous tissue or membrane; and in all instances the further growth of the bone substance takes place largely in the latter way. The deposit of bone begins generally at one spot, which is therefore called the primary centre of ossifica- tion ; but there may be several of these from the first. The main part of the bone thus formed from the primary centre is sometimes named the diaphysis. In most bones, after considerable advance in growth by extension from the primary centre, ossification occurs at comparatively later periods in one or more separate points, forming- secondary or tertiary centres; and the portions of bones so formed, which remain united to the main part for a time by intervening cartilage, are termed epiphyses. In many instances entire consolidation of the bone by the osseous union of the epiphyses does not take place till the full size has been attained, and this may be as late as the twenty-third or even the twenty-fifth year of life. In their outward form the bones present much diversity, but have been reduced by anatomists to the following classes:—1. Long or cylindrical, such as the chief bones of the limbs. These consist of a body or shaft, cylindrical or prismatic in shape, and two extremities which are usually thicker than the shaft, and have smooth cartilaginous surfaces for articulation with neighbouring bones. The shaft is generally hollow and filled with marrow, by which sufficient size and strength are attained without undue increase of weight. 2. Tabular or flat bones, like the scapula, ilium, and the bones forming the roof and sides of the skull. 3. Short bones, which are more or less cubical or oblong, as in the carpus and tarsus. 4. Irregular or mixed bones, mostly situated symmetrically across the mesial plane of the body, and often of a complex figure, such as the vertebra:. In these differently shaped bones the osseous substance occurs in two forms, viz., the compact and the spongy. There is, however, no essential difference in structure or properties between these beyond that of thickness or thinness of the component material. The sru-faces of bones present various eminences, depressions, and other marks, to designate which the following terms are in common use. Any marked bony prominence is called a process or apophysis ; a slender, sharp, or pointed eminence is named a spine, or sjnnovs process ; a blunt one a tubercle ; a broad and rough one a tuberosity. The terms crest, line, and ridge are usually applied to a pro- minent border, or to an elevation running some way along the surface of a bone. A head (caput, capitulum, or capitellum) is a rounded process usually supported on a narrower part named the necli (cervix). The term condyle, somewhat vari- ously applied by anatomists, is most frequently employed to denote an eminence bearing a rounded articular surface. The cavities and depressions of bones are very variously named. An aperture or perforation, when short, is a foramen ; when continued some way as a passage it is a canal or meatus. A narrow slit is a fissure, an open excavation or hollow in one bone or in several together is a fossa. This term is also sometimes applied to the socket of a joint, as in the glenoid or shallower, and the cotyloid or deeper form of joint cavity. Sinus and antrum are names applied to considerable cavities in the interior of certain bones. Besides these, various other terms are employed which do not require explanation, such as notch (incisura), groove, furrow (sulcus), &c. The number of bones in the skeleton varies at different periods of life, some which are originally distinct becoming united together as the