BONES OF THE THORAX. 30 20° to 25° with the vertical. In the condition of expiration the upper border of the sternum is opposite the disc between the second and third dorsal vertebrae, the junction of the manubrium and body opposite the middle of the fifth dorsal vertebra, and the xiphi-sternal articulation about opposite the interspace between the ninth and tenth dorsal vertebrae. Fig. 24.—Front view of the thorax, SnOWINO THE STERNUM, COSTAL CARTI- LAGES, RIBS, AND DORSAL VERTEBRAS. £ 1, manubrium ; 2, is close to the place of union of the first costal cartilage ; 3, clavicular notch ; 4, body of the sternum ; 5, ensiform process; 6, groove on the lower border of the ribs ; 7, the vertebral end of the ribs ; 8, neck ; 9, tubercle ; 10, costal cartilage ; 12, first rib ; 13, its tubercle ; 14, first dorsal vertebra ; 15, eleventh, 16, twelfth rib. The sides are sloped outwards to about the ninth rib, are slightly convex from above down, and strongly arched from before back. The upper aperture is contracted, reniform, nearly plane, and much sloped downwards ; the lower is irregular, the margin ascends on each side from the tenth rib to the xiphi-sternal articulation, and thus gives rise to the subcostal angle into the centre of which the ensiform process projects. The form of the cavity corresponds generally to that of the exterior, but in the middle line the antero-posterior diameter is much reduced by the projection of the bodies of the vertebrae ; as a consequence of this and the backward direction of the hinder ends of the ribs, a deep hollow is formed on each side, into which the posterior portions of the lungs are received, and thus the weight of the body is thrown farther back and is more equally distributed around the vertebral column. The intercostal spaces are eleven in number, somewhat wider above than below, but varying with the elevation or depression of the ribs. Fig. 24. OSSIFICATION OF THE RIBS AND STERNUM. The ossification of the ribs begins in cartilage posteriorly about the eighth week of foetal life, and extends rapidly forwards, so as to reach the permanent Fig. 25.—One of the middle ribs at about twenty years of age. (R. Quain.) 1, body; 2, epiphysis of the head ; 3, that of the tubercle.