609 MUSCULO-CUTANEOTTS NERVE. communicates with the anterior portion of the internal cutaneous, and, according to Swan, with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. (r) One or more branches to the integument of the arm pierce the fascia near the axilla, and reach to the elbow, or nearly so, distributing filaments outwards over the biceps muscle. These branches are often connected with the intercosto-hiuneral nerve. Small internal cutaneous nerve.—The small internal cutaneous nerve, or nerve of Wrisberg, destined for the supply of the integument of the lower half of the upper arm on the inner and posterior aspect, commonly arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus in union with the large internal cutaneous nerve. In the axilla it lies close to the axillary vein, but it soon appears on the inner side of that vessel, and communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve. It then descends along the inner side of the brachial vessels to about the middle of the arm, where it pierces the fascia, and its filaments are thence continued to the interval between the internal condyle of the humerus and the olecranon. Connection with the intercosto-humeral nerve.— This connection presents much variety in different cases :—in some, there are two or more intercommunications, forming' a kind of plexus on the posterior boundary of the axillary space ; in others, the intercosto-humeral nerve is of larger size than usual, and takes the place of the n erve of Wrisberg, only receiving in the axilla a small filament from the brachial plexus, and this small communicating filament represents in such cases the nerve of Wrisberg. Musculo-cutaneous nerve.—The musculo - cutaneous or external cutaneous nerve is deeply placed between the muscles as far as the elbow, and below that point is immediately under the integument. Arising from the brachial plexus opposite the small pectoral muscle, it perforates the coraco-brachialis, and, passing obliquely across the arm between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles, reaches the outer side of the biceps a little above the elbow. Here it perforates the fascia, and, passing behind the median-cephalic vein, divides into two branches which supply the integument on the outer side of the forearm, one on the anterior, the other on the posterior aspect. A. Branches in the arm. («) A slender branch to the humerus is given off by the musculo- cutaneous nerve near its origin, and descends along the brachial artery, to which it supplies filaments, to enter the bone with the medullary branch of that vessel. (b) The nerve to the coraco-brachialis arises from the musculo-cutaneous trunk before it enters the muscle. (c) Branches to the biceps and brachialis anticus are given off while the nerve is between those muscles. From the nerve to the brachialis anticus a filament descends to the elbow-joint (Rudinger). B. Branches in the forearm. (a) The anterior branch descends near the radial border of the forearm. It is placed in front of the radial artery near the wrist, and distributes its terminal offsets over the ball of the thumb. One or two filaments pierce the fascia and accompany the artery to the back part of the carpus. This part of the nerve is connected above the wrist with a branch of the radial nerve. (b) The 'posterior branch is directed outwards to the back of the vol. i. r. R