INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 379 Immediately on entering the cranium the meningeal artery gives minute twigs to the Gasserian ganglion and to the dura mater near the sella turcica, and a small petrosal branch which enters the hiatus Fallopii, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery. It also anastomoses with branches of the ophthalmic artery, (d) The small meningeal arterg, usually arising from the preceding, enters the skull through the foramen ovale, to supply the Gasserian ganglion and the dura mater in the middle fossa. (e) The inferior denial arterg, passing downwards, enters the dental canal with the inferior dental nerve, and subsequently escapes on the face by the mental foramen. As it enters the canal, it gives off the mylo-hyoid Fig. 238. Fig. 238.—Deep dissection of the head and face, to show the internal MAXILLARY ARTERY AND ITS BRANCHES (from TieclemRIHl). g. The right half of the calvaria, the zygomatic arch, and the upper half of the ramus of the lower jaw, with the external pterygoid muscle, have been removed ; some of the superficial muscles of the face have been divided, and the internal pterygoid and buc- cinator muscles are exposed : 1, facial artery, rising over the edge of the lower jaw ; 2, inferior coronary artery ; 2', mental branch of the inferior dental artery ; 3, facial artery continued ; 4, superior coronary ; 5, lateral nasal ; 6, frontal branch of the ophthalmic artery, from which the nasal artery is seen descending on the nose ; 7, internal carotid artery ; 8, external carotid ; 9, division of the external carotid into superficial temporal and internal maxillary arteries ; 10, superficial temporal; 11, masseteric branch of the external carotid artery ; 12, internal maxillary artery, at the origin of its inferior dental branch ; 13, on the base of the zygoma, points to the origin of the middle meningeal branch, and on the dura mater above, to its distribution ; 14, on the lower part of the temporal muscle, is between the deep temporal branches of the artery ; 15, pterygoid branches ; 16, buccal artery ; 17, posterior dental, and deepest part of the internal maxillary artery where it enters the splieno-maxillary fossa; 18, branches of the infraorbital artery issuing upon the face.