LUMBAR PLEXUS. 628 The anterior branch, descending in a straight line to the knee, per- forates the fascia lata in the lower part of the thigh ; it afterwards runs down near the intermuscular septum, giving oft' filaments on each side to the skin, and is finally directed over the patella to the outer side of the knee. It communicates above the joint with a branch of the long saphenous nerve ; and sometimes it takes the place of the branch usually given by the latter to the integument over the patella. Fig. 352.—Cutaneous Verves op the anterior AND INNER PART OP THE THIGH (from SappeV, after Hirschfeld and Leveille). 1, external cutaneous nerve; 2, 3, middle cuta- neous, the outer one passing through the sartorius muscle ; 4, filament to the sartorius; 5, internal cutaneous nerve ; 6, its anterior division ; 7, one of its upper branches; 8, a cutaneous twig from the nerve to the pectineus ; 9, patellar branch of the internal saphenous nerve ; 10, continuation of the saphenous down the leg. The posterior or inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, descending along the posterior border of the sartorius muscle, perforates the fascia lata at the inner side of the knee, and communicates by a small branch with the internal saphenous nerve, which here descends in front of it. It gives some cutaneous fila- ments to the lower part of the thigh on the inner side, and is distributed to the skin upon the inner side of the leg. While beneath the fascia, this branch of the in- ternal cutaneous nerve joins in an inter- lacement with offsets of the obturator nerve below the middle of the thigh ; and below the knee it communicates again with branches of the saphenous nerve. (c) The branch to the wmtineiis crosses inwards behind the femoral vessels, and enters the muscle on its anterior aspect: this branch is occasionally double. (cl) The sartorius muscle receives two or three twigs which arise in common with the middle cutaneous nerve, and enter the upper part of the muscle. (e) The branch to the rectus femoris enters the posterior surface of its muscle : from this nerve, and from some of the other muscular branches, twigs are sent, in company with a branch of the external circumflex artery (p. 470) to the hip-joint. (f) The nerve to the vastus externus, of considerable size, descends with a large branch of the external circumflex artery along the anterior border of the muscle, and sometimes sends a filament to the knee- joint. (cj) Two or three branches penetrate the crureus muscle on its anterior