MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 304 The muscles of opposite sides converge as they ascend, and their mesial fibres are longest. Relations.—Its anterior surface supports the pharynx, the sympathetic and vagus nerves, and the great cervical vessels. The posterior surface rests upon the vertebrae, part of the longus colli and the rectus anticus minor. The rectus capitis anticus minor, partly covered by the major, arises from the front of the root of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the basilar process, between the margin of the foramen magnum and the preceding muscle, half an inch from its fellow. The rectus capitis lateralis is a short thick muscle arising from the upper and fore part of the enlarged extremity of the transverse process of the atlas, and inserted into the rough under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. This and the foregoing muscle complete the series of intertransversales muscles, which are described along with the deep posterior muscles of the neck. The longus colli muscle rests on the front of the vertebral column from the atlas to the third dorsal vertebra ; it consists of three sets of fibres, of which one is vertical and two are oblique, a. The vertical part ai’ises by a series of flattened muscular and tendinous processes from the bodies of the lower two cervical and upper two or three dorsal vertebrae, and along its outer border it receives slips also from the transverse pro- cesses of the lower three or four cervical vertebrae ; it is inserted into the bodies of the second, third and fourth cervical vertebra, b. The lower oblique part, the smallest of the three, takes origin in common with the vertical part from the bodies of the upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted by narrow tendinous slips into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, c. The upper oblique part arises by separate tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the lateral part of the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas, becoming connected also with the upper end of the vertical part. Relations.—By its anterior surface the longus colli muscle is in contact with the pharynx and oesophagus, the great vessels of the neck contained in their sheath, the sympathetic and recurrent laryngeal nerves, and the inferior thyroid artery. Behind, it rests upon the vertebrae. Varieties.—The number of attachments, and the degree of separation of the several parts are subject to variation. A slip of the lower oblique part is some- times inserted into the head of the first rib, or a fasciculus may be continued into the rectus capitis anticus major. Nerves.—The rectus anticus minor and rectus lateralis are supplied by branches from the first cervical nerve ; the scaleni and long prevertebral muscles receive branches from the adjacent cervical nerves. Actions.—The scalene muscles, acting from their vertebral attachments, are elevators of the upper ribs, and thus come into play in the movement of inspira- tion, contracting forcibly in laboured breathing, while in tranquil respiration a moderate degree of action suffices to fix the first rib and support the lung where it projects through the upper aperture of the thorax. Taking their fixed point at the ribs they act as lateral flexors of the neck, and the muscles of the two sides acting together (especially the anterior scaleni) can bend the neck for- wards. The recti antici are flexors of the head on the spine, and the rectus lateralis can only bend the head to the side. The longus colli is chiefly a flexor of the neck, but its upper and lower oblique parts may produce a certain amount of rotation.