VEINS OF THE DIPLOE. Fig. 294.—Veins op the Fig. 294. 507 which correspond generally to the arteries of the same name. The veins from the eyeball are called anterior and posterior ciliary. The anterior ciliary veins are small and aocoinpany the corresponding arteries ; per- forating the sclerotic coat close to the cornea, they join the muscular branches of the ophthalmic veins. The posterior ciliary veins, of larger size, are four or five in number, emerge from the eyeball about midway between the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve, and end partly in the superior, partly in the inferior ophthalmic vein. The inferior ophthalmic vein is formed by the union of the lower posterior ciliary veins with some branches from the muscles, and passes back- wards near the floor of the orbit to open also into the cavernous sinus, either separately or in common with the superior ophthalmic vein. It sends a communicating branch downwards through the spheno-maxillary fissure to the pterygoid plexus, and sometimes this offset forms the chief or sole termination of the vein. VEINS OP THE DIPLOE. The veins of the diploe of the cranial bones are only to be seen after the peri- cranium is detached, and the external table of the skull carefully removed by means of a file. Lodged in canals hollowed in the substance of the bones, their DIPLOE OP THE CRANIAL bones (after Breschet). -j The external table has been removed from the greater part of the calvaria so as to expose the diploe and the veins which have been injected : 1, a single frontal vein ; 2, 3, anterior temporal vein; 4, posterior temporal ; 5, occipital vein of the diploe. branches form an irregu- lar network, from which a few larger vessels issue. These are directed downwards at different parts of the cranium, and terminate, partly in the veins on the outer surface of the bones, and partly in the sinuses of the interior of the skull. According to Breschet there are four such veins on each half of the cranium, viz., a frontal, an occipital, and two temporal. The frontal is small, and issues by an aperture at the supraorbital notch to join the supraorbital vein. There is often only one frontal vein present. The tenmpral are distinguished as anterior and posterior. The anterior is con- tained chiefly in the frontal bone, but may extend also into the parietal; it opens externally into a deep temporal vein, through an aperture in the great wing of the sphenoid, and internally into the spheno-parietal sinus. The posterior ramifies in the parietal bone, and passes through an aperture at the lower and hinder angle of that bone, or through the mastoid foramen, to the lateral sinus. The occipital is the largest of all, and opens either externally into the oc- cipital vein, or internally into the torcular Herophili or the lateral sinus. Its ramifications are confined especially to the occipital bone.