18 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. Fig. 15. but it is subject to much variation. The first piece often joins the sacrum before the union of the rest of the bone. Fig. 15.—Vertebral column op an adult male, SEEN PROM BEHIND. (A. T. ) \ C 1, first cervical vertebra ; D 1, first dorsal ver- tebra ; L 1, first lumbar vertebra ; S 1, first sacral vertebra ; CO 1, first coccygeal vertebra. The tran- sition in the form of the transverse processes and tubercles in the lower dorsal and first lumbar vertebra is well marked in this specimen. The vertebral column as a whole.— The vertebral column may be regarded as a central column upon which the other parts of the skeleton are arranged. Superiorly it supports the skull, laterally the ribs, through which also it receives the weight of the upper limits, and near its lower extremity it rests upon the hip bones, by which it transmits the weight of the body to the lower limbs. It is a pillar of support to the rest of the skeleton, and protects the spinal cord by enclosing it in a bony canal. Its average length is about 28 inches. When seen in profile the column presents four curves, directed alternately forwards and backwards,—forwards in the cervical and lumbar regions, backwards in the dorsal and sacral. The upper curves pass im- perceptibly into one another, but at the junction of the last lumbar vertebra with the sacrum a considerable angle is formed, known as the sacro-vertebral angle, caus- ing the promontory to overhang the cavity of the pelvis. The dorsal and sacral curves are primary curves, affecting those parts of the column which enter into the formation of the bony-walled cavities, the thorax and pelvis ; they make then- appearance at an early period of foetal life, and are due to the conformation of the vertebral bodies: the cervical and lumbar curves are secondary or compensatory curves, necessary to the upright posture, only developed after birth, and dependent mainly on the shape of the intervertebral discs; in these regions also the principal movements of the spine take place. The curves obviously confer upon the column greater elasticity and security from injury than it would have were it perfectly straight. In the upper dorsal region there is also very frequently a slight degree of lateral curva-