ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 406 external cutaneous and median ; while the targe internal cutaneous is usually in front of the artery, and the inner head of the median crosses it obliquely from within outwards. Branches.—The branches of the axillary artery are very variable in their number, size, and mode of origin. They comprise thoracic branches furnished to the muscles of the chest, the subscapular branch to the shoulder, and two circumflex branches to the upper part of the arm. Small unnamed twigs are also given to the serratus magnus, subscapularis and coraco-brachialis muscles, and to the skin. 1. The superior or short thoracic artery is a small branch, which arises near the lower border of the subclavius muscle. It inclines down- wards and inwards across the first intercostal space, and terminates in the two pectoral muscles, giving off also branches which supply the upper part of the serratus magnus and the subjacent intercostal muscles, and anastomose with the intercostal arteries. 2. The acrouiio-thoracic artery, of considerable size, and by far the most constant of the thoracic branches of the axillary artery, arises from its fore part at the upper border of the pectoralis minor muscle, and soon divides into branches which take different directions. (a) The acromial branches pass partly to the deltoid and partly through that muscle to the upper surface of the acromion, and anastomose with the suprascapular and posterior circumflex arteries. (]>) The humeral branch passes down in company with the cephalic vein iu the interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, and is distributed to their margins, and to the integument. (c) The thoracic branches are distributed to the serratus magnus and pectoral muscles, and anastomose with the other thoracic arteries. (id) The clavicular branch, very small, passes upwards to the sub- clavius muscle. 3. The long thoracic artery (external mammary) is directed down- wards and inwards, along the lower border of the pectoralis minor, and is distributed to the serratus and pectoral muscles, and to the mamma, forming anastomoses with branches of the intercostal arteries. 4. The alar thoracic branch is a very small vessel and not constant, its place being frequently supplied by branches from the thoracic and subscapular arteries. It is distributed to the lymphatic glands and the fatty tissue in the axilla. 5. The sub scapular artery (iv), the largest branch of the axillary artery, arises near the lower border of the subscapularis muscle, along which it proceeds downwards and backwards, towards the inferior angle of the scapula, accompanied by the long subscapular nerve. It soon becomes considerably diminished in size, owing to its giving off a large branch to the dorsum of the scapula, and it terminates in branches to the subscapularis, serratus magnus, teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles. Its final ramifications anastomose with the Icing thoracic, the intercostal, and the posterior scapular arteries. The dorsal branch leaves the subscapular artery about an inch from its origin, and is commonly larger than the continuation of the vessel. Directed backwards through the triangular interval bounded above by the subscapularis, below by the teres major, and externally by the long head of the triceps muscle, and turning closely round the border of the scapula, which is frequently grooved to receive it, it passes between the teres minor and the bone and ramifies in the infraspinous fossa,