523 INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. passes throng'll the aperture below the subpubic ligament (p. 335), forming a communication on each side with the commencement ot the pudic vein, and then divides into two branches which enter the right and left portions of the prostatic plexus. Each of these divisions is also con- Fig. 302.—Internal view of the male pelvis from the left side, to show the PRINCIPAL VEINS. (A. T.) £ The greater part of the pelvic wall of the left side, and the upper parts of the rectum and urinary bladder have been removed ; the left common iliac and the right internal iliac arteries, and the left external and internal iliac veins have been cut short: a, right psoas magnus muscle ; b, anterior superior iliac spine ; c, I’oupart’s ligament; cl, cavern- ous and spongy bodies of the penis divided near the root ; +, bulb of the spongy body, above which is the membranous part of the urethra ; e, left os pubis, sawn through close to the symphysis ; /, anus ; g, spine of the ischium with the small sacro-sciatic ligament; h, auricular surface of sacrum ; i, bladder ; Jc, rectum ; l, transverse process of the fourth lumbar vertebra; 1, inferior vena cava ; 1', abdominal aorta ; 2, 2, common iliac veins ; 2', right common iliac artery ; 3, 3, external iliac veins ; 3', external iliac artery; 4, 4, internal iliac veins ; 5, 5, middle sacral vein ; 6, 6, ilio-lumbar and lumbar veins; 7, right gluteal and upper lateral sacral veins ; 8, 8', obturator vein and artery of the right side; 9, veins ascending from the vesical plexus on the right side ; 9', lower part of the vesical plexus on the left side ; 10, placed on the small sacro-sciatic ligament, indicates on the right side the junction of the pudic and sciatic veins, on the left side the trunk of the pudic vein ; 10', perineal veins ; 11, placed on the prostate, the left division of the dorsal vein of the penis joining the prostatic plexus, which is continued into the lower part of the vesical plexus ; 12, placed on the lower part of the rectum, may indicate the position of the hoemorrhoidal plexus. Fig. 302.