INTERCOSTAL NERVES. 619 humeral ; 4, intercostal nerves continued forwards to 4', their anterior cutaneous twigs ; 5, lateral cutaneous branches of these nerves ; 6, lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve ; 7, iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve ; 8, hypogastric branch of the same ; 9, Rio-inguinal; 10, middle cutaneous of the thigh. the first intercostal, a small branch which courses along the first intercostal space, in the manner of the other intercostal nerves, but has usually no lateral cutaneous branch, ancl may also want the anterior cutaneous. Variety. —The first dorsal nerve frequently receives a connecting twig which passes upwards in front of the neck of the second rib from the second nerve. This branch was found by Cunningham in twenty-seven out of thirty-seven dis- sections ; it was of variable size, hut generally very small, and it sometimes joined only one, in other cases both, of the divisions of the first nerve (Journ. Anat., xi., 539). UPPER OR PECTORAL INTERCOSTAL NERVES. In their course to the fore part of the chest, these nerves accompany the intercostal blood-vessels. After a short space they pass between the internal and external intercostal muscles, supplying them with twigs, as well as the levatores costarum and serratus posticus superior, and, about midway between the vertebrae and the sternum, they give off the lateral cutaneous branches. The nerves, greatly diminished, are now continued forwards amid the fibres of the internal intercostal muscles as far as the costal cartilages, where they come into contact with the pleura. In approaching the sternum, they cross the internal mammary artery and the fibres of the triangularis sterni muscle to which they give filaments. Finally, these nerves pierce the internal intercostal muscle and the greater pectoral, and end in the integument of the breast, receiving the name of the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. At the side of the chest some of the twigs occasionally cross the inner surface of the ribs, passing from one intercostal space to join the nerve in the interval next below. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax pierce the external intercostal and serratus magnus muscles, in a line a little behind the pectoral border of the axilla. The first intercostal usually gives no lateral branch or only a slender twig to the axilla, but when that of the second nerve is unusually small, it may be supplemented by that of the first. The branch from the second intercostal is named intercosto-humeral, and requires separate description. Each of the remaining lateral cuta- neous nerves divides into two branches, which reach the integument at a short distance from each other, and are named anterior and posterior. The anterior branches are continued forwards over the border of the great pectoral muscle. Several reach the mammary gland and the nipple ; and from the lower nerves twigs are supplied to the digitations of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The posterior branches turn backwards to the integument over the scapula and the latissimus efersi muscle. The branch from the third nerve ramifies in the axilla, and a few filaments reach the arm. The intercosto-humeral nerve, the lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve, corresponds with the posterior of the two divisions of the succeeding lateral cutaneous branches, the anterior being commonly wanting. It crosses the axillary space to reach the arm, and is connected in the axilla with an offset of the nerve of Wris- berg (p. 609). Penetrating the fascia, it becomes subcutaneous, and