VEIN'S OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 506 OPHTHALMIC VEINS. The ophthalmic veins are two in number, and collect the blood from the parts within the orbit. The superior, much the larger, commences near the root of the nose by a wide communication with the angular vein, and is also joined, usually near its origin, by another communicating branch from the supraorbital vein. It passes backwards Fig. 293. Fig. 293.—Sketch op the ophthalmic veins, showing their distribution and com- munications with other veins (altered from Hirschfelcl an cl Leveille). (A. T.) The orbit is opened from the outer side and the dissection is similar to that for displaying the ophthalmic artery (fig. 239, p. 384) : a, optic nerve; b, superior oblique muscle, divided a little way behind its pulley; c, lachrymal gland lying upon the eyeball ; d, inferior oblique muscle ; e, foramen rotundum ; /, maxillary sinus, opened externally : I, cavernous sinus, being joined by the common trunk of the ophthalmic veins ; 1, supraorbital vein, joining the angular below and communicating behind (in this case by a long branch) with the superior ophthalmic vein ; 2, inferior ophthalmic vein ; 3, posterior ciliary veins; 4, 4, anterior and posterior ethmoidal branches, joining the superior ophthalmic vein ; 5, frontal vein ; 6, in front of the maxillary sinus, infraorbital vein ; 6, in the orbit, communication of the inferior ophthalmic vein with the pterygoid jdexus ; II, facial vein ; 7, deep facial from the pterygoid plexus ; 8, 8, 8, nasal branches ; 9, 10, angular vein ; III, temporo-maxillary trunk, formed by the union of IV, the temporal and V, the internal maxillary veins ; 11, meningeal branch ; 12, inferior dental; 13, 14, muscular, alveolar and communicating branches; 15, placed in the spheno-maxillary fossa above the spheno-palatine vein; only a few branches of the ptery- goid plexus are represented. in company with the ophthalmic artery, crossing the optic nerve from within outwards, and gains the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure, where it opens into the fore part of the cavernous sinus. It is joined in its course by anterior and posterior ethmoidal, muscular and lachrymal branches, and near its termination by the central vein of the retina, all of