488 SYSTEMIC VEINS. found passing beneath the innermost slip of the extensor brevis dig-itorum, and having the companion nerve generally to its outer side. The aponeurotic layer binding the vessels against the bone must also be cut through to bring them fully into view. SYSTEMIC VEINS. The systemic veins commence by small branches which receive the blood from the capillaries throughout the body, and unite to form larger vessels, which end at last by pouring their contents into the right auricle of the heart through two large venous trunks, the supe- rior and inferior venae cavae. The blood from the walls of the heart it- self is returned by the cardiac veins also to the right auricle. The veins, however, which bring back the blood from the stomach, intestines, spleen, and pancreas, have an exceptional destination, not conveying the blood directly to the heart, but joining to form a single trunk—the portal vein, which again becomes ramified in the substance of the liver, and carries its blood to the capillaries of that organ. Thence the blood passes into the ultimate twigs of the hepatic veins, and is con- veyed by these veins into the inferior vena cava. The veins thus passing to the liver constitute thq portal system. The anastomoses of veins are much larger and more numerous than those of arteries. The veins of the body generally consist of a sub- cutaneous and a deep set, which have very frequent communications with each other. In some parts of the body, chiefly in the limbs and at the surface, the veins are provided with valves, while in others no valves exist (see Yol. II. p. 192). The systemic veins are naturally divisible into two groups: firstly, those from which the blood is carried to the heart by the superior vena cava, viz., the veins of the head and neck and upper limbs, together with those of the spine and a part of the wralls of the thorax and abdomen, with which may be associated also the veins of the heart; and secondly, those from which the blood is carried to the heart by the inferior vena cava, viz., the veins of the lower limbs, the lower part of the trunk, and the abdominal viscera. (For a general representation of the venous system, see fig. 225, p. 348.) VEINS OF THE HEART. The greater number of the cardiac veins are collected into a large common trunk which pours its blood into the posterior part of the right auricle, in the angle between the orifice of the inferior vena cava and the right auriculo-ventricular orifice. The terminal part of this trunk is somewdiat dilated, and is named the coronary sinus. The veins leading into the sinus are named the left or great, the posterior, the middle, and the right or small cardiac veins. In addition to these, there are also the anterior and the smallest cardiac veins, which open separately into the right auricle. The veins of the heart are without valves, except- ing at their terminations. The great cardiac or coronary vein commences near the apex of the heart, and ascends, increasing gradually in size, along the anterior inter- ventricular groove, in company with the anterior branch of the left coronary artery. It then turns backwards, by the side of the posterior