ARTERIES OF TEE LOWER LIMB. 476 1. The superior internal articular artery is directed inwards just above the inner head of the gastrocnemius, and beneath the inner ham- string muscles, to all of which it furnishes small offsets. Winding round the inner side of the femur, between the bone and the tendon of the adductor magnus, it divides under cover of the vastus interims muscle into branches, which anastomose with the deep part of the anastomotic, the upper external articular, and the lower articular arteries. The size of this artery varies inversely with that of the deep part of the, anas- tomotic branch of the femoral. Fig. 281.—View of the popliteal artert and its branches in the riuht leg (from Tiedemann). I a, biceps muscle ; b, semimembranosus ; c, semi- tendinosus ; 1, popliteal artery; 2, 3, superficial sural branches ; 4, outer ; 5, inner superior articular branch ; 6, superior muscular ; 7, median superficial artery. 2. The superior external articular artery (v), larger than the internal, runs outwards above the outer head of the gastrocnemius, under cover of the biceps, and, perforating the intermuscular septum, enters the lower part of the crureus muscle. Its branches anastomose above with the descending branch of the external circum- flex artery, below with the lower external arti- cular artery, and internally with the upper internal articular artery and the deep branch of the anastomotic, forming with the last a considerable arch at the upper border of the patella. 3. The inferior internal articular artery (v), the larger of the two lower branches, in- clines at first downwards and inwards along the upper margin of the popliteus muscle, to which it gives branches, and then passes forwards below the inner tuberosity of the tibia, between the internal lateral ligament and the bone. Its offsets ramify over the inner and fore part of the joint, as far as the patella and its ligament, and anastomose with the superficial branch of the anastomotic, the upper internal articular, and lower external articular arteries. 4. The inferior external articular artery takes its course out- wards, under cover of the outer head of the gastrocnemius in the first instance, and afterwards beneath the external lateral ligament of the knee and the tendon of the biceps muscle, resting against the margin of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage. Having reached the fore part of the joint, it divides near the patella into branches, some of which communicate with the lower internal articular artery and with the recurrent branch from the anterior tibial, while others anastomose with the upper articular arteries. 5. The middle or azygos articular artery is a small branch which arises opposite the flexure of the joint, and pierces the posterior ligament to be distributed to the crucial ligaments and other structures within the articulation. Small twigs also pass forwards in the mucous ligament