MUSCLES OF TIIE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 197. 282 tendons into the fore part of the sclerotic coat, at a distance of from three to four lines from the margin of the cornea. The external and inferior recti exceed the other two in length. On the other hand, the internal rectus is the broadest, and the superior the narrowest of all. At their insertions the internal is nearest to, and the superior is farthest from the edge of the cornea (Cruveilhier). Between the heads of the external rectus is a narrow interval which gives passage to the third and sixth nerves and the nasal branch of the fifth nerve, with the ophthalmic vein. The superior oblique or trochlearis is a narrow elongated muscle, placed at the upper and inner part of the orbit, internally to the levator paJpebrte. It arises about a line in front of the inner part of the optic foramen; thence it proceeds towards the front of the orbit, and terminates in a round tendon which passes through a fibro-cartilaginous ring or pulley (trochlea) attached to the trochlear fossa of the frontal hone ; it is there reflected outwards, backwards and downwards, and passes between the eye and the superior rectus to be inserted into the sclerotic coat a little beyond the outer edge of that muscle, and midway between the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. Relations.—This muscle is in contact with the roof of the orbit, the fourth nerve entering its upper surface; and beneath it lie the nasal nerve and the Fig. 197.—A VIEW OP THE MUSCLES OP THE 1UGHT ORBIT, FROM THE OUTSIDE, THE OUTER WALL HAVING BEEN RE- MOVED. (A. T.) ^ B, Explanatory sketch op the same muscles. a, orbital arch ; b, lower margin of the orbit; c, anterior clinoid process ; d, posterior part of the floor of the orbit above the spheno-maxillary fossa ; e, side of the body of the sphenoid hone below the optic foramen and sphenoidal fissure ; /, maxillary sinus ; 1, levator palpebros superioris, near its insertion ; 2, pulley and tendon of the superior oblique muscle ; 3, tendon of the superior rectus muscle at its insertion upon the eyeball; 4, in A, external rectus ; 4', in B, tendon of in- sertion of the same muscle, a large part of which has been removed ; the double origin of the muscle is shown at the apex of the orbit; 5, inferior oblicpie muscle crossing the eyeball below the inferior rectus ; 6, inferior rectus ; 7, in B, the internal rectus, and near it, the end of the optic nerve cut short close to the place of its entrance into the eye- ball. internal rectus muscle. The pulley is lined by a synovial sheath, and from its outer border an investment of firm connective tissue is prolonged on the tendon as far as the eyeball. The inferior oblique arises from a minute depression in the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone, just within the anterior margin o the orbit, and close outside the orifice of the nasal duct. I fie muscle