MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS AND EYEBROWS. STS of its slips, tlie anterior by a diminution of the volume and distinctness of its fibres. The origin of part of the retrahens is sometimes carried backwards to a variable extent along the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Cruveilhier describes as normal a deep anterior auricular muscle, passing from the zygomatic process to the outer surface of the tragus. Actions.—The three auricular muscles respectively draw the pinna of the ear upwards, backwards, and forwards. In the majority of persons their action is not directly under voluntary control. MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS AHD EYEBROWS. These are four in number, namely—the orbicularis palpebrarum and tensor tarsi, the levator palpebrse superioris, and the corrugator super cilii. The orbicularis palpebrarum is a thin elliptical muscle closely adherent to the skin, surrounding the fissure between the eyelids and covering their surface, and spreading for some distance outwards on the temple, upwards on the forehead, and downwards on the cheek. It consists of two parts which differ somewhat in their arrangement and action. The central or palpebral portion is that part of the muscle which is contained in the eyelids. It is composed of thin pale fibres which arise from the upper and lower margins of the internal tarsal ligament, and pass outwards, describing a slight curve, to be inserted into the much less developed external tarsal ligament. A somewhat thicker fasciculus, which lies along the free margin of each lid, is dis- tinguished as the ciliary bundle. The peripheral or orbital portion is larger, stronger, and of a deeper colour. Internally its fibres are attached to the inner part of the tarsal ligament, to the whole length of the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and to the inner part of the orbital arch of the frontal bone, while externally the fibres pass uninterruptedly from the eyebrow to the cheek, thus forming a series of concentric loops or, in the case of the more central fibres, nearly complete rings. Relations.—The palpebral portion of the muscle is separated from the fibrous groundwork of the lids (tarsi) by the palpebral ligament. The orbital portion lies in its upper part over the frontal hone and the corrugator supercilii, and is closely connected with the insertion of the frontalis muscle : in its lower part it rests upon the superior maxillary and malar bones, ml the origins of the elevator muscles of the upper lip and ala of the nose, and from both its inner and outer ends fibres are sent downwards to those muscles and to the skin of the cheek. These slips are described separately by Henle under the name of malaris muscle. The internal tarsal ligament (tendon of the orbicularis, tendo palpebra- rum) is a small white band which is often obscured by the fibres of the orbicularis muscle, but is rendered prominent by drawing the lids out- wards. This ligament is about two lines in length and half a line in breadth, and is attached to the nasal process of the superior maxilla, in front of the lachrymal groove ; thence it runs horizontally outwards to the inner commissure of the eyelids, where it divides into two thin fibrous lamella!, which diverge and terminate on the tarsi. One surface of the ligament is subcutaneous ; the other crosses the lachrymal sac, to which it is closely adherent, a little above the centre, and from it a process is given off, which passes on the posterior side of the sac to be attached to the crest on the lachrymal bone. The external tarsal ligament is a much weaker structure connecting the eyelids to the malar bone. The tensor tarsi (muse, sacci lachrymalis, Horner) is regarded by VOL. I. T