between 10 and 11, and between 11 and 12; x , Fig. 136. 161 (A. T.) i ARTICULATIONS OF THE HAND. is sometimes also connected with other metacarpal bones ; superiorly it receives the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. The synovial Fig. 136.—Frontal section of the inferior RADIO-UI.NAR, RADIO-CARPAL, INTERCARPAL, AND CARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS. 1, points to the triangular fibro-cartilage below the ulna ; 2, placed on the ulna, points to the cavity of the sacciform synovial membrane ; 3, external lateral, and 4, internal lateral ligament, and between them the synovial cavity of the wrist; 5, scaphoid bone ; 6, semilunar ; 7, pyra- midal ; 8, 8, upper portion, and 8', 8', lower portion of the general synovial cavity of the intercarpal and carpo-metacarpal articulations ; between 5 and 6, and 6 and 7, the interosseous ligaments are seen separating the carpal articular cavity from the wrist-joint; between the four carpal bones of the lower row, and between the magnum and scaphoid, the interosseous liga- ments are also shown ; the upper division of the synovial cavity communicates with the lower marks one of the three interosseous metacarpal ligaments ; 9', separate synovial cavity of the first carpo-metacarpal articulation; 13, first, and 14, fifth metacarpal bone. Note. —It is to he observed that in this figure, and in others of a like kind which represent the joint-cavities, the white or black lines indicating the synovial membranes are, for the sake of clearness, generally represented as passing over the surfaces of the articular cartilages, although this is not the case in nature. These lines therefore must he held to represent merely the whole continuity of the articular or, as they are often called, the synovial surfaces. cavity is usually distinct, but sometimes communicates with that of the radio-carpal articulation. The anterior annular ligament of the wrist is a strong and thick band, which extends from the prominences made by the trapezium and scaphoid bone on the radial side of the carpus, directly across to the pisiform bone and unciform process, and converts the transverse arch of the carpus into a ring through which the flexor tendons of the digits pass into the hand. The posterior annular ligament, placed at the back of the wrist, is only a thickened part of the aponeurosis of the forearm. It extends from the lower part of the radius, at its outer border, to the inner part of the pyramidal and pisiform bones and serves to bind down the extensor tendons. CARPO-METACARPAL AND INTERMETACARPAL ARTICULATIONS. The four inner metacarpal bones are bound together at their distal extremities by fibres passing between the palmar ligaments of the meta- carpo-phalangeal articulations, and constituting the transverse metacarpal ligament. At their proximal extremities they are united to one another and to the carpal bones in articulations, the common synovial lining of which is derived from that of the intercarpal joint. In these articulations the four metacarpal bones are bound together by three dorsal, and three palmar, and by strong interosseous ligaments. The second, third and VOL I. M