MUSCLES OF THF OEBIT. 2S3 inclines outwards, backwards and upwards, passing between the inferior rectus and the floor of the orbit, and ends in a tendinous expansion which is inserted, under cover of the external rectus, into the eyeball at its posterior and outer part, and nearer to the optic nerve than the superior oblique. Varieties.—The levator palpebroe sometimes gives off a slip from its inner border, which passes to be inserted into the trochlea, forming the tensor troclilcai of Budge. Absence of the levator palpebrse has been observed (Macalister). The muscles of the eye seldom vary. The external rectus has been seen :—with its two heads separate to their insertion, thus forming a double muscle (Albinus) ; with absence of its outer (upper ?) head (Macalister); and giving slips to the outer wall of the orbit and the lower eyelid (Cumow). The transversus orbitce (Bochdalek) is an arched slip of muscular fibres passing from the orbital plate of the ethmoid across the upper surface of the eyeball to the outer wall of the orbit. It is probably, as Macalister suggests, a displaced deep slip of the palpebral fibres of the orbicularis. Nerves.—Five of the muscles of the orbit, viz., levator palpebrae superioris, the superior, internal and inferior recti, and the inferior oblique, are under the influence of the third or common oculo-motor nerve ; the external rectus is supplied by the sixth or abducent ocular, and the superior oblique by the fourth or trochlear nerve. Actions.—The levator palpcbrce superior is is simply an elevator of the upper eyelid; acting as the antagonist of the upper palpebral part of the orbicularis muscle. The eyeball is so situated in the structures which surround it in the orbit that it is capable of free motion on a central fixed point; but it does not appear to shift its place as a whole within the orbit, at least to any extent, nor to undergo perceptible change of form from the action of the muscles. The position of the point round which the movements of the eyeball take place is nearly in the centre of curvature of the posterior wall, and from half a line to a line behind the middle of the antero-posterior axis of the eyeball. The movements of the eyeball may be conveniently reduced to four kinds, viz., 1, simple lateral movements in a horizontal plane ; 2, simple movements of eleva- tion or depression ; 3, oblique movements of elevation or depression ; and 4, move- ments of rotation. In the first two kinds the vertical meridian of the eye is not subject to any change of inclination ; in the third kind the movements of direction are accompanied by a small amount of inclination of the vertical meri- dian to one or other side ; and in the fourth kind, when simple, the whole move- ment is one of inclination of the vertical meridian. These movements, however, unless perhaps the first, are seldom simple, but more frequently different kinds i are combined together. The three first kinds constitute the various movement1/ of direction by which the visual axis is turned within certain limits to various points in space ; the extent of motion being about 90* in the vertical and 100° in the horizontal direction. Simple movements of rotation do not appear to occui to any considerable extent, and it has been ascertained by experiment that they are not sufficient, as was supposed by Hueck and others, to maintain the eyeballs in a fixed position during inclined movements of the head. In these different movements the six muscles of the eyeball may advantageously I be considered as acting in three pairs. 1st. In the horizontal movements the I internal and external recti muscles are the sole agents, the one acting as an adductor and the other as an abductor ; and this movement they effect without any rotation, their line of action being exactly in the horizontal plane of the eye- ball. 2nd. It is different with the superior and inferior recti; for while these muscles undoubtedly are respectively the most direct elevators and depressors of ' the cornea, they have both a tendency, from the line of their action being to the inner side of the centre of motion of the eyeball, to produce inward direction II with a small amount of rotation. This tendency is corrected by the association of the oblique muscles in all upward and downward movements ; the inferior oblique being associated with the superior, and the superior oblique with the