360 INNOMINATE ARTERY. in one instance, observed four, the supplementary vessels appearing like branches of one of the coronary arteries springing directly from the aorta. INNOMINATE ARTERY, The innominate or brachio-cephalic artery (14 mm.), the largest of the vessels which proceed from the aorta, arises from the upper surface of the transverse portion of the arch, before the left carotid artery. From this point the vessel ascends obliquely towards the right, until it arrives opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation of that side, on a le ,7el with the upper margin of the clavicle, where it divides into the right sub- clavian and common carotid arteries. The place of bifurcation would, in most cases, be reached by a probe passed backwards through the interval between the sternal and clavicular portions of the steruo-mastoid muscle. The length of the artery usually ranges from one to two inches. This artery, lying for the most part within the thorax, is placed behind the sternum, from which it is separated by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, by the remains of the thymus gland, and lower down by the left innominate vein, which crosses the artery at its root. The lower part of the innominate artery lies in front of the trachea, the upper against the pleura : on its left side is the left carotid artery below and the trachea above ; and to the right is the corresponding innominate vein. There are usually no branches arising from this vessel. Varieties.—The length of the innominate artery sometimes exceeds two inches, and occasionally it measures less than one inch. Its place of division is a point of surgical interest, inasmuch as upon it in a great measure depends the accessibility of the innominate in the neck, and the length of the right subclavian artery. It is sometimes found dividing a considerable distance below the clavicle, and sometimes, but rather less frequently, above it. Though usually destitute of branches, this vessel supplies occasionally a thyroid branch, the tliyroidea ima, and, in rare cases, the internal mammary artery, or a thymic branch, or a bron- chial artery, which descends in front of the trachea. The tliyroidea ima is an occasional artery. 'When present, it usually arises from the innominate trunk, but in some instances it has been observed to come from the right common carotid artery, or from the aorta itself. More rarely it arises from the right internal mammary or subclavian. It varies greatly in size in different bodies, and compensates in various degrees for deficiencies or absence of the other thyroid arteries. It ascends to its destination in front of the trachea, and its presence might therefore complicate the operation of tracheotomy. COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES (I*). Position and relations—Difference on the two sides.—The common carotid arteries of the right and left sides of the body are nearly similar in their course and position while they are in the neck ; but they differ materially in their place of origin, and consequently in their length, and position at their commencement. On the right side the carotid artery commences at the root of the neck behind the upper part of the sterno-clavicular articulation, at the bifurcation of the innominate artery ; but on the left side the carotid arises within the thorax, from the middle part of the arch of the aorta, very near the origin of the innominate artery. Tliis number indicates the order to -which the artery belongs : see p. 349.