213 PRONATOR AND FLEXOR MUSCLES. PRONATOR AND FLEXOR MUSCLES. The eight muscles on the front and inner part of the forearm are disposed in two sets, five being superficial, the others more deeply seated. The superficial layer of muscles comprehends the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and flexor sublimis digitorum. These five muscles are intimately united at their origin from the inner condyle, being attached to this by a common tendon which gives fibres to each, and also sends septa between them. The pronator radii teres muscle, the most external of the group, arises by two distinct heads ; one, large and superficial, is derived from the upper part of the inner condyle of the humerus, and from the common tendon above mentioned ; also from the fascia and the inter- muscular septum on its inner side. The second head, a thin fasciculus deeply placed, comes from the inner margin of the coronoid process, and joins the other at an acute angle. The fleshy belly thus formed proceeds outwards and downwards, and ends in a flat tendon which turns over the radius, and is inserted into a rough impression at the middle of the outer,surface of that bone. Relations.—The pronator teres is placed superficially in the greater part of its extent; but towards its insertion it is crossed by the radial artery and nerve, and the supinator longus muscle. The ulnar border is in contact with the flexor carpi radialis and flexor sublimis digitorum : the radial border forms the inner boundary of the angular space at the bend of the arm. in which are placed the brachial vessels, the median nerve, and the tendon of the biceps muscle. The pronator teres lies over the brachialis anticus and the radial origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum ; the ulnar artery passes behind the whole muscle, and the median nerve between its two heads. Varieties.—The coronoid head is sometimes absent. In other cases the muscle is prolonged further than usual by a slip rising from the intermuscular septum above the inner condyle of the humerus, or from the supracondylar process when that is present. This peculiarity is sometimes associated with a change in the direction of the brachial artery. An additional head of origin from the biceps or from the brachialis anticus has also been observed. The flexor carpi radialis muscle arises from the inner condyle by the common tendon, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the inter- muscular septa placed between it and the pronator teres on one side, the palmaris longus on the other, and the flexor sublimis posteriorly. The fleshy fibres end a little below the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which occupies a special compartment in the outer part of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and running through a groove in the trapezium, to which it is bound by a thin fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane, is inserted into the base of the second metacarpal bone, a small slip being generally sent to the base of the third. Relations —The muscle lies immediately under tbe fascia until its tendon sinks beneath the annular ligament. In the lower half of the forearm the radial artery is placed to the outer side of the tendon. Varieties.—At its origin this muscle has been observed receiving an additional slip from the tendon of the biceps, the semilunar fascia, the coronoid process of the ulna, or the oblique line of the radius. Its insertion is subject to frequent varieties, taking place partly into the annular ligament, the trapezium, or into the fourth metacarpal bone as well as the second and third.