MUSCLES OF THE SOLE. 263 muscular slip springing' from the skin on the inner border of the foot, somewhat in front of the inner ankle ; but this is not so frequent as the cutaneous slip of the corresponding muscle of the hand. The abductor minimi digiti muscle lias a wide origin behind, from the front of both tubercles on the under surface of the os calcis, from the external intermuscular septum, and from the deep surface of the band of the plantar fascia which extends from the external tubercle to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The fleshy fibres end in a Fig. 190.—Transverse section of the right Fig. 190. FOOT BETWEEN THE TARSUS AND METATARSUS. A. T. i a, b, c, articular surfaces of the internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones ; d and e, the surfaces of the cuboid bone for the fourth and fifth meta- tarsal bones; between these bones are seen the strong interosseous ligaments which bind them together; 1, slip of the tendon of the tibialis anticus, which passes on to its insertion into the first metatarsal bone ; 2, tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis ; 3, slip of the extensor brevis digitorum to the great toe ; 3', remainder of the extensor brevis digitorum ; 4, slips of the extensor li longus digitorum ; 5, peroneus tertius ; 6, peroneus brevis ; 7, peroneus longus cut obliquely where it is emerging from its sheath below the cuboid bone ; 8, tendon of the flexor longus hallucis ; 9, tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, with the slip from the flexor hallucis; 10, flexor accessorius ; 11, ahduetor hallucis ; 12, flexor brevis digitorum ; 13, abductor minimi digiti. tendon which, after gliding along a smooth depression on the inferior surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, is inserted into tire outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—The muscle is covered by the plantar fascia. Its deep surface is in contact with the outer head of the flexor accessorius, the long plantar liga- ment, the peroneus longus tendon, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Variety.—The abductor ossis metatarsi qwinti is an occasional muscle which arises from the external tubercle of the os calcis, and is inserted into the spur- like process of the fifth metatarsal bone in common with, or beneath the outer margin of the plantar fascia. It may be adherent to the abductor minimi digiti, and it has been seen inserted into the middle or even the anterior part of the metatarsal bone. It occurs nearly once in every two subjects (Wood, Macalister). The second layer of muscles of the sole is constituted by the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, together with the flexor accessorius and lumbricales, all of which have been described in the last section (pp. 257—259). The third layer of muscles comprises the short flexor and adductor of the great toe, the transversus pedis, and the short flexor of the little toe. The flexor brevis hallucis (fl. brev. pollicis pedis) arises by a flat tendinous process from the inner border of the cuboid bone, and by a second band from the offset of the tibialis posticus tendon which passes to the middle and outer cuneiform bones. The muscular part is single and narrow behind, but in front it divides so as to form two bellies or heads which are inserted by tendinous fibres, one into the inner border of the base of the first phalanx in union with the abductor hallucis, the other into the outer border in union with the adductor. A sesamoid bone is developed in each of the heads.