PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. oS3 and forwards beneath the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone to the crico-thyroid muscle in which it ends. It receives a filament from the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and it gives off twigs to the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, as well as generally a cardiac branch which joins the superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic. Offsets of the external laryngeal nerve have been described by different anato- mists as passing to the pharyngeal plexus, to the thyroid body, to the sterno- hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles, and to the mucous membrane of the true vocal cord. The internal laryngeal branch is continued to the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, where it perforates the thyro- hyoid membrane with the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery, and breaks up into numerous diverging branches which supply the mucous membrane of the greater part of the larynx. Some of these ascend in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold to the base of the tongue and the epiglottis ; while others pass downwards to the false vocal cord, and also to the part of the pharyngeal mucous membrane covering the back of the larynx. One long branch descends beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and joins at the lower part of’the larynx a similar offset ascending from the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Inferior laryngeal nerve.—The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve of the right side arises at the root of the neck, and turns backwards below the subclavian artery ; the nerve of the left side arises in the upper part of the thorax, and is reflected round the transverse part of the arch of the aorta immediately beyond the attachment of the ligament of the ductus arteriosus. Each nerve ascends in the neck, passing behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, and lying in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, where it enters the larynx beneath the inferior constrictor muscle. Under cover of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, the nerve divides into branches which supply all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, with the exception of the crico-thyroid. It likewise gives a few offsets to the mucous membrane below the rima glottidis, and a connecting filament which joins the long branch of the upper laryngeal nerve beneath the hinder part of the thyroid cartilage. The recurrent nerve also furnishes branches to the cardiac plexus, and twigs of communication with the inferior cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic, as it turns round the large artery; tracheal and oesophageal branches as it ascends in the neck; and lastly, offsets to the inferior con-' strictor of the pharynx as it passes beneath that muscle. Cardiac branches.—Branches to the heart are given off by the pneumo-gastric nerve both in the neck and in the thorax. The cervical cardiac branches arise at both the upper and the lower part of the neck. The upper branches, one or two, are small, and join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. The loicer, a single branch, arises as the pneumo-gastric nerve is about to enter the chest. On the right side this branch lies by the side of the innominate artery, and joins one of the cardiac nerves destined for the deep cardiac plexus ; it gives some filaments to the coats of the aorta. The branch of the left side crosses the arch of the aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus. The thoracic cardiac branches of the right side leave the trunk of the