COG NEE YES OF THE UPPEE LIMB. Varieties.—The communicating- branch to the phrenic nerve has been seen to pass down into the thorax over the subclavian artery, and even over the vein, before joining- with the trunk. A second filament to the phrenic, from the sixth nerve, is rarely met with. The posterior thoracic nerve often gets an additional root from the seventh cervical, and Lucas has recorded three instances in which it received a fourth branch or root from the eighth cervical nerve : its highest root from the fifth cervical nerve is frequently united at its origin with the nerve to the rhomboids. The suprascapular nerve is sometimes derived entirely from the fifth cervical nerve. BRANCHES BELOW THE CLAYICLE. The several nerves now to be described are derived from the three great cords of the plexus in the following order. From the upper or outer cord,—the external of the two anterior thoracic nerves, the musculo-cutaneous, and the outer head of the median. From the lower or inner cord,—the inner of the two anterior thoracic, the nerve of Wrisberg or small internal cutaneous, the internal cutaneous, the ulnar, and the inner head of the median. From the posterior cord,—the subscapular nerves, the circumflex, and the musculo-spiral. If the fasciculi of which the principal nerves are composed be followed through the plexus, they may be traced to those of the spinal nerves which in the subjoined table are named along with each trunk. The higher numbers refer to the cervical nerves, the unit to the dorsal nerve :— Subscapular from . . 1 Circumflex . . . > 5.G.7.8. Musculo-spiral. . . ) External cutaneous . . 5.G.7. Median .... 5.6.7.8.1. Ulnar .... Internal cutaneous Small internal cutaneous • ( outer 5.6.7. Anterior thoracic 8.1. or 7.8.1. Hi. \ inner 8.1. Anterior thoracic nerves.—The anterior thoracic nerves, two in number, supply the pectoral muscles. The external, or more superficial branch, arising from the outer cord, crosses inwards over the axillary artery, and, after giving off a branch to join the inner nerve, terminates in the great pectoral muscle. The internal, or deeper branch, springing from the inner cord, comes forwards between the axillary artery and vein, and is joined by the com- municating branch from the external nerve, with which it forms a plexi- ■ form loop embracing the axillary artery. From this loop offsets proceed to both the small and large pectoral muscles. Oubscapular nerves.—The subscapular nerves are usually three in number and supply the muscles forming the posterior wall of the axilla. The upper nerve, the smallest of the three, penetrates the upper part of the subscapularis muscle. This branch is sometimes double. The middle or long subscapular nerve is the largest of the three, and descends in company with the subscapular artery to enter the deep sur- face of the latissimus dorsi muscle. The lower subscapular nerve gives a branch to the subscapularis at its axillary border, and ends in the teres major muscle. Varieties.-—The branches to the lower part of the subscapularis and the teres major muscles are sometimes independent offsets of the brachial plexus. The nerve to the teres major is occasionally given off by the commencement of the cir- cumflex nerve.