CEKEBRO-SPINAL NERVES. G48 Muscles above the hyoid bone.—The mylo-hyoid muscle and anterior belly of the digastric are supplied by a special branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve ; the posterior belly of the digastric muscle and the stylo-hyoid are supplied by branches of the facial. The genio-hyoid and the muscles of the tongue receive their nervous supply from the hypoglossal nerve. The muscles ascending to the hyoid bone and larynx, viz., the sterno- hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, are supplied from the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve and its loop with the cervical plexus, while the thyro-hyoid muscle receives a separate twig from the twelfth nerve. The larynx, pharynx, and soft palate.—The crico-thyroid muscle is supplied by the external laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastrie nerve, and the other intrinsic muscles of the larynx by the recurrent laryngeal. The muscles of the pharynx are supplied principally by the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastrie ; the stylo-pharyngeus, however, is sup- plied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Of the muscles of the soft palate unconnected with the tongue or pharynx, the tensor palati receives its nerve from the otic ganglion (which also supplies the tensor tympani) ; the levator palati gets a twig from the posterior palatine branch of the spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel), and is therefore innervated by the facial, while the azygos uvulae is probably supplied from the same source. 2. To muscles belonging exclusively to the trunk, and muscles ascending to the skull.—All those muscles of the bade, which act upon the spine and head, viz., the splenius, complexus, erector spinas, and the muscles more deeply placed, receive their supply from the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves. The sterno-mastoid is supplied by the spinal accessory nerve and a twig of the cervical plexus coming from the second cervical nerve. The rectus capitis anticus major and minor are supplied by twigs from the upper cervical nerves ; the lonyus colli and scaleni muscles by twigs from nearly all the cervical nerves. The muscles of the chest-wall, viz., the intercostals, subcostals, levatores costarum, serrati postici, and triangularis sterni, are supplied by the intercostal nerves. The obliqui, trcinsversalis, and rectus of the abdomen are supplied by the lower intercostal nerves ; and the oblique and transverse muscles also get branches from the ilio-inguinal and ilio-hypogastric nerves. The cremaster muscle is supplied by the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve. The quadratics lumborum (like the psoas) receives small branches from the lumbar nerves before they form the plexus. The diaphragm receives the phrenic nerves from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, branches from the lower intercostal nerves (Luschka), and likewise sympathetic filaments from the plexuses round the phrenic arteries. The muscles of the urethra and penis are supplied by the pudic nerve , the levator and sphincter ani by the pudic and the fourth sacral nerves ; and the coccygeus muscle by the fourth and fifth sacral nerves. 3. To muscles attaching the upper limb to the trunk.—The trapezius and the cleido-mastoid receive the distribution of the spinal accessory nerve, and, in union with it, filaments from the cervical plexus. The latissimus clorsi receives the long subscapular nerve.