ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. ICO to the os magnum. On the inner side a strong bundle springs from the root of the styloid process of the ulna and passes to the pyramidal and semilunar bones. The posterior ligament extends obliquely downwards and inwards, from the extremity of the radius to the posterior surface of the first row of the carpal bones, especially the pyramidal bone ; its fibres are pro- longed some distance on the surface of the carpal bones. The synovial membrane is simple and lines the ligaments between the articular surfaces. The Carpal Articulations.—The bones of the carpus, the pisiform excepted, are so arranged in two rows, that while only slight movement can take place between the members of each row, a considerable amount of movement is possible between the two rows. The surface presented by the first row to the second is concave both transversely and from before backwards in the greater part of its extent, but at its outer side it is formed by the convex part of the scaphoid bone. The opposing surface of the second row is concavo-convex from without inwards, the concavity being formed by the trapezium and trapezoid, the convexity by the os magnum and unciform bone. The two rows of carpal bones are united by dorsal, palmar, and lateral ligaments. The lateral ligaments are placed one at the radial, the other at the ulnar border of the carpus ; the former connects the scaphoid bone with the trapezium, the latter the pyramidal with the unciform. The dorsal ligaments consist of fibres passing in various directions ; the palmar ligaments are chiefly composed of fibres converg- ing towards the os magnum. The bones of tlie first row, the pisiform bone excepted, are united by interosseous and by dorsal and palmar ligaments. The interosseous ligaments, placed on the sides of the semilunar bone on a level with its superior surface, connect it with the scaphoid and pyramidal bones, thus completing the inferior wall of the radio-carpal joint. The dorsal and 'palmar ligaments extend transversely on the dorsal and palmar surfaces from the scaphoid bone to the semilunar, and from the semilunar to the pyramidal. The bones of the second row are connected by similar means. The dorsal and palmar ligaments pass transversely between the contiguous bones. The interosseous ligaments are generally three (but sometimes only two) in number, a strong ligament being placed between the os magnum and unciform bones, another between the trapezoid and trape- zium, and a slender ligament between the os magnum and trapezoid. A small interosseous ligament is also found sometimes between the os magnum and the scaphoid. (Fig. 136.) The synovial cavity of the carpal articulations is extensive and complicated. Passing between the two rows of carpal bones, it sends upwards two processes between the three bones of the first row, and downwards three between the four bones of the second row. It is far- ther continued below into the inner four carpo-metacarpal and three intcrmetacarpal articulations. In some rare cases there is continuity with the synovial cavity of the wrist-joint, by deficiency of one of the interosseous ligaments between the upper carpal bones. The pisiform bone is articulated by a thin fibrous capsule and synovial membrane with the pyramidal bone. Inferiorly it is united by two strong ligaments with the unciform and fifth metacarpal bones, and