662 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. embracing the root of the aorta. It accompanies the right coronary artery on the heart, sending its branches upwards and downwards to the airricle and ventricle. The left coronary plexus is larger than the right, and is derived mainly from the left half of the deep cardiac plexus. Being directed forwards between the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendage, it reaches the left coronary artery, and subdivides into two principal portions which accompany the primary divisions of that vessel. Nervous filaments ramify in great number under the pericardium, especially on the ventricular portion of the heart. They are not so easily distinguished in man as in some animals. In the heart of the calf or the lamb they are distinctly seen without dissection, running in lines which cross obliquely the muscular fibres. Remak was the first to observe that these branches are furnished with small ganglia, both on the surface and in the muscular substance (Muller’s •‘Archiv,” 1841). For a description of the Ganglia and Nerves of the Heart from original observations, see I. Bell Pettigrew, “ Physiol, of the Circulation, ” &c., 1874, p. 293. SOLAR OR EPIGASTRIC PLEXUS. The solar or epigastric plexus, the largest of the prevertebral centres, is placed at the upper part of the abdomen, behind the stomach, and in front of the aorta and the pillars of the diaphragm. Surrounding the origin of the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery, it occu- pies the interval between the suprarenal bodies, and extends downwards as far as the pancreas. The plexus consists of nervous cords, with several ganglia of various sizes connected with them. The large splanchnic nerve on both sides, and some branches of the pneurno- gastric, terminate in it. The branches given off from it are very numerous, and accompany the arteries to the principal viscera of the abdomen, constituting so many secondary plexuses on the vessels. Thus, diaphragmatic, coeliac, mesenteric, and other plexuses are recog- nised, which follow the corresponding arteries. Semilunar ganglia.—The solar plexus contains, as already men- tioned, several ganglia ; and by the size of these bodies it is distinguished from the other prevertebral plexuses. The two principal ganglionic masses, named semilunar, though they have often little of the form the name implies, occupy the upper and outer part of the plexus, one on each side, and are placed close to the suprarenal bodies by the side of the cceliac and the superior mesenteric arteries. At the upper end, which is expanded, each ganglion receives the great splanchnic nerve. Diaphragmatic or phrenic plexus.—The nerves composing this plexus are derived from the upper part of the semilunar ganglion, and are larger on the right than on the left side. Accompanying the arteries along the lower surface of the diaphragm, the nerves sink into the sub- stance of the muscle. They furnish some filaments to the suprarenal body, and join with the spinal phrenic nerves. At the right side, on the under surface of the diaphragm, and near the suprarenal body, there is a small ganglion, (diaphragmatic or phrenic, ganglion,) which marks the junction between the phrenic nerves of the spinal and sympathetic systems. From this small ganglion filaments are distributed to the vena cava, the suprarenal body, and the hepatic plexus. On the left side the ganglion is wanting. Suprarenal plexus.—The suprarenal nerves issue from the solar