Fig. 296. VEINS OF THE UPPER LIMB. Fig. 296.—The superficial veins at the bend of 510 pierces the fascia, and forms a communication between it and the deep veins accompanying the arteries. The median-basilic vein, usually the larger of the two divisions of the median, is directed inwards to join the commencement of the basilic vein. It passes in front of the brachial artery, from which it is separated by the semilunar fascia of the biceps, and it is crossed by branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The median-cephalic vein inclines outwards in the hollow between the biceps and the supinator longus muscles, passing in front of the the elbow (from R. Quain). y The full description of this figure will be found at p. 410. At 1, the fascia is opened in front of the brachial artery and its accompanying veins ; the inner vena comes has been divided, the outer, marked 2, is entire ; +, median nerve ; 3, basilic vein ; 3', 3', ulnar veins ; 4, cephalic vein; 4', radial vein ; 5, 5, median vein ; 5 to 4', median- cephalic ; 5 to 3', median-basilic. musculo-cutaneous nerve, and joins the radial to form the cephalic vein. The basilic vein, the largest of the veins of the arm, ascends in the groove on the inner side of the biceps muscle, lying internal to the situation of the brachial artery ; it perforates the fascia somewhat below the middle of the arm, and is continued upwards into the axillary vein. The cephalic vein is directed upwards in the groove along the outer border of the biceps muscle, and then between the pectoralis major and the deltoid; finally dipping in between the last two muscles, it crosses the first part of the axillary artery, and opens into the axillary vein between the upper border of the pectoralis minor and the clavicle. Varieties.—The superficial veins of the forearm are subject to great variation, both in the disposition and size of their trunks, and in their arrangement at the bend of the elbow. The radial vein may be very small or even absent, and in such cases the cephalic vein may also be wanting, the branches from the outer side of the forearm being collected into the median vein, which is continued directly into the median-basilic. It occasionally happens that the anterior ulnar vein is larger than the posterior. The median-basilic rein is not unfrequently double. The cephalic rein sometimes passes up over the clavicle and terminates in the external jugular vein ; or these two vessels may be united by a communicating branch (_jugulo-ceplialic) in this situation. In two cases this communicating branch has been seen to perforate the bone (Allen Thomson). The cephalic vein is occasionally found passing backwards between the subclavius muscle and the clavicle to join the lower end of the subclavian vein.