DEEP PALMAR ARCH. 42? descending across the thumb-muscles to the wrist. In cases of low origin the radial artery passes beneath the pronator teres and the radial origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum to its usual position between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis, and in two or three of these cases it has been seen joined by a vas aberrans as it makes its appearance superficially (R. Quain, pi. 35, fig. 4, G-. D. T.). As has been previously stated (p. 414), the vasa aberrantia occasionally derived from the brachial or axillary artery commonly end by join- ing the radial, or one of its branches. Size.—The radial artery is sometimes much smaller than usual, and it has been seen terminating in the carpal and superficial volar offsets, or in muscular offsets at a variable level in the forearm. A few instances of absence of the radial artery are also recorded, the brachial artery being continued directly into the ulnar- interosseous trunk, and giving off only a radial recurrent branch at the usual place of division. In these cases the deficiency is generally supplied by the ulnar artery in the hand, or by a large median artery, more rarely by a branch of the anterior interosseous directed outwards in front of the wrist, or joining the diminished radial trunk at the back of the hand (p. 421). Branches.—The radial recurrent is sometimes very large, or it may be replaced by several separate branches. One considerable branch occasionally passes back- wards on the surface of the supinator brevis muscle, and turns upwards behind the outer condyle of the humerus, replacing the posterior interosseous recurrent artery. "When the radial itself arises high up, the recurrent artery usually comes from the residual brachial trunk, or sometimes from the ulnar artery, or more rarely from the interosseous. When given from the brachial trunk, the radial recurrent has been found crossing beneath the tendon of the biceps. The superficial volar branch is sometimes enlarged, and furnishes one or two digital branches (generally to the thumb and index finger), and along with this the communication with the superficial arch may be absent. This branch occasionally arises much higher than usual, and in a few cases the radial artery has been found dividing in the upper part of the forearm into two branches of nearly equal size, the one of which descends into the palm of the hand as the superficial volar artery, giving off also the carpal and dorsal digital branches, while the other passes backwards at a variable level, over the extensor tendons, in the manner described above. The carpal and dorsal interosseous branches of the radial are sometimes very small, their place being supplied by the perforating offset of the anterior inter- osseous, apparently by an enlargement of the ordinary anastomosis between them. The first dorsal interosseous branch is not unfrequently much enlarged, and furnishes the collateral digital arteries to the index and middle fingers. The dorsal artery of the index finger may similarly, though more rarely, supply one or both of the collateral arteries of the adjacent sides of the thumb and index finger. DEEP PALMAR ARCH (V). The deep palmar arch, the continuation of the radial artery, com- mences at the upper end of the first interosseous space, extends trans- versely across the palm towards the fifth metacarpal bone, and is com- pleted by the deep branch of the ulnar artery. The convexity of the arch thus formed is directed downwards. It rests on the interosseous muscles and on the metacarpal bones immediately below their carpal extremities, and is covered by the flexor brevis pollicis, the flexor tendons of the fingers, and the opponens and flexor brevis minimi digiti. It is nearer to the carpus than the superficial arch, and differs from it in re- taining its size almost undiminished. It is accompanied for some distance by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which runs from the inner end of the arch outwards. Branches.—1. The recurrent branches ascend from the upper con- cave side of the arch, and anastomose with the branches of the anterior carpal arch.