591 ROOTS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. I eight pairs are usually reckoned as eight cervical nerves, but tire first is also distinguished by the name of suboccipital nerve. ' The nerves of the thirty-first pair emerge from the lower end of the sacral canal, pass below the first vertebra of the coccyx, and are named coccygeal. I Varieties.—The spinal nerves necessarily vary in number with any deviation from the usual number of the segments of the vertebral column. Sometimes an additional coccygeal nerve exists. Among seven cases which were examined with great care by Schlemm (“ Observat. Neurologic®,” Berolini, 1834) two coc- cygeal nerves were found on each side in one instance, and on one side in another case. THE ROOTS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. Each spinal nerve springs from the spinal cord by two roots which approach one another as they quit the spinal canal, and join in the corresponding intervertebral foramen into a single cord ; and each cord so formed separates immediately into two divisions, one of which is des- tined for parts in front of the spine, the other for parts behind it. General arrangement.—The posterior roots of the nerves are dis- tinguished from the anterior roots by their greater size, as well as by the greater thickness of the fasciculi of which they are composed. Each spinal nerve is furnished with a ganglion situated on the posterior root, but the first cervical or suboccipital nerve is in some cases without one. The size of the ganglion is in proportion to that of the nerve on which it is formed. The ganglia are in general placed in the intervertebral foramina. In A, the anterior sur- face of the specimen is shown, the anterior nerve- root of the right side being divided ; in B, a view of the right side is given ; in C, the upper surface is shown ; in D, the nerve-roots and gan- glion are shown from below : 1, anterior median fissure ; 2, posterior me- dian fissure ; 3, place of origin of the anterior nerve-roots; 4, postero- lateral groove, into which the fasciculi of the poste- rior root are seen to sink ; 5, anterior roots passing over the ganglion ; 5', in A, the anterior root divided ; 6, posterior root, the fibres of which enter 6', the ganglion ; 7, the anterior, and 7', the posterior primary division of the nerve, each of which is seen in A and D to be derived in part from the anterior and in part from the posterior root. Fig. 334. — Different VIEWS OF A PORTION OF THE SPINAL CORD FROM THE CERVICAL REGION WITH THE ROOTS OF THE nerves. Slightly en- larged. (A. T.) Fig. 334.