93 TIIE RADIUS. of the extensor carpi nlnaris ; and interiorly by a depression, into which the triangular fibro-cartilage is inserted. The ulna is placed in its whole length under the skin at the back of the forearm. The subcutaneous tract comprises the triangular surface on the back of the olecranon, the posterior border of the shaft, which lies at the bottom of the longitudinal groove between the flexor and extensor muscles, and, in the lower third, a narrow strip of the internal surface leading down to the styloid process ; the latter projects at the inner and posterior part of the wrist. THE RADIUS.* The radius is the external of the two bones of the forearm, and extends from the humerus to the carpus. It articulates with the humerus, the ulna, the scaphoid, and the semilunar bones. The superior extremity, or head, is disc-shaped, with a smooth ver- tical margin. It presents on its summit a depression, which articulates with the capitellum of the humerus, and is surrounded by a convex part, broadest internally where it glides upon the groove internal to the capitellum. The smooth, short, cylindrical surface of the vertical margin, likewise broadest internally, rotates in the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and within the orbicular ligament. The head is supported on a constricted portion, named the neck. The shaft or body is slightly curved, with the convexity directed outwards and backwards. On its internal aspect superiorly, where it is continuous with the neck, is the bicipital tuberosity, to the posterior rough portion of which is attached the tendon of the biceps muscle. Below the bicipital tuberosity the shaft presents three surfaces, of which the external is only indistinctly marked off from the others by smooth, rounded anterior and posterior borders, while the anterior and posterior surfaces are separated by a sharp, prominent internal border, which gives attachment to the interosseous membrane. The external surface is convex transversely as well as longitudinally ; it is marked near the middle by a rough impression about one inch and a half long, which gives insertion to the pronator radii teres. The anterior surface is limited above by the prominent oblique line of the radius, running from the lower part of the tubercle downwards and outwards to form the anterior border; below this it is grooved longitudinally for the flexor longus pollicis, and at the lower end it is expanded, and presents a fiat impression for the insertion of the pronator quadratus : above the middle is the foramen for the medullary artery, directed upwards into the bone. The posterior surface presents slight oblique impressions of the extensor muscles of the thumb. The loiver extremity of the radius, broad and thick, presents iuferiorly a large surface, which articulates with the carpus, and internally a small one, which articulates with the ulna. The carpal articular surface, slightly concave, is divided by a line into a quadrilateral internal part, which articulates with the semilunar bone, and a triangular external part, which articulates with the scaphoid bone. The ulnar articular surface is placed at a right angle with the inferior surface ; it is concave from before backwards, forming the sigmoid cavity, which plays over the * In anatomical description the forearm is supposed to he placed in supination, with the thumb directed outwards and the palm of the hand looking forwards.