413 VARIETIES OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. Out of 481 examples recorded by R. Quain, the vessel was found in 386 to divide at its usual position, a little below the elbow-joint. In one case only (and that complicated by another peculiarity, viz., the existence of a vas aberrans Fig- 251.—High okigin of the radial artery FROM THE BRACHIAL, AND AN ENLARGED MEDIAN ARTERY IN THE FOREARM (from Tiedemann). 5 1, on the tendon of the latissinnis dorsi, points to the upper part of the brachial artery ; 2, the brachial artery (ulnar-interosseous) after giving off the radial; 3, the radial, rising in the upper third of the arm and descending in its usual situation in the forearm ; 3', its superficial volar branch ; 4, the ulnar artery in its usual course, forming at 5, the superficial palmar arch, from which three of the palmar digital arteries and the princeps pollieis take origin ; the radial supplying the branches to the index finger and one side of the middle finger ; 6, superior pro- funda artery ; 7, inferior profunda ; 8, anasto- motic ; 9, recurrent radial ; 10, anterior inter- osseous, giving an unusually large median branch which descends over the wrist to join the super- ficial palmar arch. proceeding from the axillary to the radial j was the place of division lower than usual, being between two and three inches below the elbow-joint. In 64 cases the brachial artery divided above the usual point, at various heights upwards to the lower border of the axilla. The branch prema- turely separated from the rest of the trunk in an early division is, in the proportion of nearly three cases out of four, the radial artery; sometimes the ulnar is the branch given off; that is to say, a branch corre- sponding to the ulnar in its distribution below the middle of the forearm separates from a trunk which afterwards divides into the normal radial artery and the interosseous of the forearm, which last is normally derived from the ulnar artety. Rarely the interosseous of the forearm, or a vas aber- rans is the branch given off. In one instance, found in the dissecting-room of Glasgow University, the posterior inter- osseous artery of the forearm was thus given off. The point at which the division took place in cases of high origin of one or other of the arteries of the forearm, without reference to the particular branch given off, was found to be most frequently in the upper, less so in the lower, and least so in the middle third of the arm. But the early division of the main artery of the upper limb may. as mentioned in connection with the varieties of the axillary artery, take place within the axilla, in which case it Fig. 251. Wm