G12 NERVES OF TIIE UPPER LIMB. posterior digital nerves now described are united with twigs directed backwards from the anterior digital nerves of the same fingers. B. Branches in the'palm. (a) The superficial part of the ulnar nerve supplies a twig to the palmaris brevis muscle and some filaments to the integument, and divides into two digital branches. One of these passes to the ulnar side of the little finger; the other is connected in the palm of the hand with a digital branch of the median nerve, and at the cleft between the little and ring fingers, divides into the collateral nerves for these fingers. The terminal disposition of the digital branches on the fingers is the same as that of the median nerve, to be presently described. (l) The deep part turns backwards with the deep branch of the ulnar artery between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles, and follows the course of the deep palmar arch across the hand. It supplies the short muscles of the little finger as it passes between them ; as it lies over the metacarpal bones, it distributes branches to the interosseous muscles and the inner two lumbricales ; and at the outer side of the palm it terminates in offsets to the adductor pollicis, inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and the abductor indicis muscles. Kudinger describes filaments ascending to the wrist, and others descending to the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. Varieties.—The ulnar nerve sometimes gets an additional root from the seventh cervical nerve, or from the outer cord of the brachial plexus. When the occasional epitrochleo-anconeus muscle (p. 211) is present, it receives a branch from the ulnar nerve in the upper arm (Henle). From the same part of the nerve also small branches have been found entering the inner head of the triceps. In four instances, Gruber has seen the nerve descending in front of the inner condyle instead of behind. Zuckerkandl records cases in which the ulnar nerve slipped forwards over the internal condyle when the elbow was bent (Wiener Jahrbucher, 1880). A communicating branch from the median to the ulnar nerve in the forearm is of frequent occurrence. The ulnar nerve has also been seen furnishing one or two branches to the flexor sublimis digitorum (Turner, G. D. T.). Summary.—The ulnar nerve gives cutaneous filaments to the lower part of the forearm (to a small extent), and to the hand on its palmar and dorsal aspects. It supplies the following muscles, viz., the ulnar flexor of the carpus, the deep flexor of the fingers (its inner half), the short muscles of the little finger with the palmaris brevis, the inter- osseous muscles of the hand, the inner two lumbricales, the adductor pollicis and the inner half of the flexor brevis pollicis. Lastly, it con- tributes to the nervous supply of the joints of the elbow, wrist and hand. Median nerve.—The median nerve arises by two roots or heads, one from the outer, the other from the inner cord of the brachial plexus. Commencing by the union of these roots in front or on the outer side of the axillary artery, the nerve descends in contact with the brachial artery, gradually passing inwards over it, and near the elbow is at the inner side of the vessel. Crossing the bend of the arm, it passes beneath the pronator radii teres, separated by the deep slip of that muscle from the ulnar artery, and continues straight down the front of the forearm, between the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus digitorum muscles. Arrived near the wrist it lies beneath the fascia, between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and that of the flexor carpi radialis. It then enters