THE CORONARY ARTERIES. 159 In its course the right coronary artery gives, besides the offsets already noticed, small branches to the right auricle and ventricle, and also to the first part of the aorta and the trunk of the pulmonary artery. Along the right border of the ventricle a rather large branch usually descends towards the apex of the heart, and gives offsets, in its progress, to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the ventricle. Fig. 231.—The heart and coronary ARTERIES FROM BEFORE. (R. Quain.) $ The pulmonary artery has been cut short close to its origin in order to show the first part of the aorta : 1, right ventricle; 2, left ventricle ; 3, root of the pulmonary artery ; 4, ascending part of the arch of the aorta ; 4', descending part of the arch; between these is seen the transverse part from which the three large arteries take their origin ; 4", the descending thoracic aorta; 5, right, and 6, left auricular appendix ; 7, V, right and left innominate veins, joining to form the superior vena cava ; 8, the inferior vena cava ; 9, one of the hepatic veins ; +, placed in the right auriculo-ventricular groove, points to the right coronary artery ; + + , placed in the anterior interventricular groove, points to the descending branch of the left coronary artery. The left coronary artery is gene- rally rather larger than the pre- ceding, and arises from the left posterior sinus of Valsalva. It passes behind and then to the left side of the pulmonary artery, appearing between that vessel and the left auricular appendage, where it divides into two branches. Of these, one pursues a, transverse direction in the groove between the left ventricle and auricle, and approaches at the posterior aspect of the heart the transverse branch of the right coronary artery ; the other branch, much the larger, descends on the anterior surface of the heart along the line of the interventricular groove, to the right of the apex. The left coronary artery supplies some small branches at its com- mencement to the pulmonary artery, to the coats of the aorta, and to the left auricular appendage ; its two branches also furnish throughout their course smaller offsets, which supply the left auricle, both ventricles, and the interventricular septum. The two coronary arteries have fine anastomoses with one another on the surface of the heart, and they communicate also, by means of the small branches given to the coats of the great vessels, with the pericar- dial and bronchial arteries. Varieties.-—The coronary arteries have been observed in a few instances to commence by a common trunk, from which they diverged and proceeded to their usual destination. The existence of three coronary arteries is not a very rare occurrence, the third being small, and arising close by one of the others. Meckel,