•162 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. intern?! to the anterior sacral foramina. The superior artery is confined to the upper part of the sacrum ; the inferior passes downwards to the front of the coccyx, and terminates by anastomosing with offsets of the middle sacral artery. From the lateral sacral arteries small offsets proceed outwards to the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and to the sacral nerves, anastomosing with one another round the foramina. Others are directed inwards and anastomose with branches of the middle sacral artery. The largest branches pass backwards into the anterior sacral foramina, supply twigs to the sacral canal, and are continued through the posterior foramina to the muscles and integuments on the back of the sacrum, anastomosing with the gluteal and sciatic arteries. EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The external or anterior of the two arteries resulting from the division of the common iliac forms a large continuous trunk, which extends down- wards in the limb as far as the lower border of the popliteus muscle, but, for convenience of description, it is named in successive parts of its course external iliac, femoral, and popliteal. Fig. 275. Fig. 275.— The iliac ARTERIES OP THE RIGHT SIDE, IN THE MALE. (A. T.) ^ For tlie detailed de- scription of this figure, see p. 449. 2', ex- ternal iliac artery, accompanied by 4', the corresponding vein ; 12, epigastric artery, winding to the inner side of +, +, the spermatic cord, and sending downwards its pubic branch to join 9', the pubic offsets of the obturator artery; the epigastric artery is cut short superiorly; 13, circumflex iliac artery, anastomosing with 15, branches of the ilio-lumbar ; 14, spermatic vessels, de- scending to join the spermatic cord ; +, within the pelvis, the vas deferens descend- ing from the cord. The external iliac artery (9-10 mm.) is placed within the abdomen, and extends from the bifurcation of the common iliac to the lower border of Poupart’s ligament, where the vessel enters the thigh, and is named femoral. It is larger than the internal iliac, and measures usually from tln-ee and a half to four inches in length. Inclining obliquely outwards, its