NERVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. CIO forearm, and ramifies in the integument of the lower half, extending as far as the wrist. It communicates with a branch of the radial nerve, and with the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. Varieties.—In some cases the musculo-cutaneous nerve does not perforate the coraco-brachialis muscle. It is frequently found to communicate by a cross branch with, or to be an offset of, the median nerve ; and in the latter case, the coraco-brachialis muscle receives a separate branch from the outer cord of the brachial plexus ; such an arrangement may be explained thus,—that the main part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, instead of piercing the coraco-brachialis muscle, remains adherent to the outer root and trunk of the median. Summary. — The musculo-cutaneous nerve supplies the coraco- brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus muscles, the integument on the outer side of the forearm, the humerus, and the elbow-joint. Com- munications are established between it and the radial and the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral. Ulnar nerve.—The ulnar nerve, the largest branch of the inner cord of the brachial plexus, descends on the inner side of the main artery of the limb as far as the middle of the arm, and thence along the back of the internal intermuscular septum with the inferior profunda artery, to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. In the arm it is covered only by the fascia, and it may be felt through the integument a little above the elbow. It next passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle, under cover of which it is continued with a straight course as far as the wrist. The nerve meets the ulnar vessels somewhat above the middle of the forearm, and from this point it remains in contact with them on their inner side. Above the wrist it gives off a large dorsal branch to the hand, and the trunk then runs over the front of the annular ligament, being placed be- tween the ulnar artery and the pisiform bone, to terminate as it enters the palm by dividing into superficial and deep parts. The ulnar nerve usually gives off no branches in the upper arm. A. Branches in the forearm. (a) Articular filaments are given to the elbow-joint as the nerve passes behind it. (b) Muscular branches arise from the nerve near the elbow, and pass to the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum muscles. (c) Cutaneous branches.—These two small nerves arise about the middle of the forearm by a common trunk. One pierces the fascia, and turning downwards, joins a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. This branch is often absent. The second, a palmar branch, lies on the ulnar artery, which it accompanies to the hand. This little nerve gives filaments around the vessel, and ramifies in the integument of the hand, joining in some cases with other cutaneous offsets of the ulnar or median nerve. (d) Dorsal branch to the hand.—This large offset, leaving the trunk of the ulnar nerve two or three inches above the wrist, winds backwards beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris and divides into branches ; one of these ramifies on the inner side of the little finger, another divides to supply the contiguous sides of that finger and the ring finger, while a third joins on the back of the metacarpus with the branch of the radial nerve which supplies the contiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers. The several