THE PERINEUM OF THE MALE. 706 find is formed by the obturator interims muscle covered by its fascia below the level at which the recto-vesical fascia is attached to it. The inner wall is oblique in direction and convex towards the fossa; it is formed by the levator ani muscle, covered by the thin anal fascia, and at the lower part by the external sphincter. Anteriorly, the fossa is limited by the base of the triangular ligament, and posteriorly, by the gluteus maximus muscle and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Its depth is about two inches (above the margin of the tuberosity) at the hinder part, where it extends upwards to the ischial spine, the small sacro-sciatic ligament and the coccygeus muscle. The pudic vessels and the dorsal and perineal divisions of the pndic nerve run forwards along the outer wall of the fossa, being embedded in the obturator fascia about an inch and a half above the lower margin of the ischial tuberosity ; the inferior hsemorrhoidal branches of these trunks run obliquely inwards and forwards from the hinder part of the fossa towards the anus ; and anteriorly, the superficial perineal vessels and the perineal nerve leave the shelter of the hip-bone and also enter the fat of the fossa. The ischio-rectal fossa is often the seat of abscesses which burrow freely in the loose fat of the part, and frequently result in the formation of a fistula in ano, involving a communication with the bowel, some- times above, but more frequently below, the external sphincter. The lower dilated part of the rectum, which occupies the space between the two ischio-rectal fossae, is supported by the levatores ani and the external sphincter muscles, as well as by the recto-vesical fascia. Its lateral wall is exposed for a distance of about three inches, its posterior wall for little more than an inch. On removing the fasciae of the fore part of the perineum the bulbo- cavernosus muscle is exposed covering the corpus spongiosum, the ischio-cavernosus covering the crus penis, and the transversus perinei directed inwards over the base of the triangular ligament to meet the first-named muscle, as well as the external sphincter and its fellow of the opposite side, in the central point of the perineum. Between the bulbo- eavernosus, ischio-cavernosus, and transversus muscles is a small tri- angular space, in which a portion of the triangular ligament is exposed, and over the surface of the muscles (sometimes in part beneath or through the transversus) the superficial perineal vessels and nerves run forwards to the scrotum, while the small transverse perineal artery is directed inwards close to the transverse muscle towards the central point of the perineum. The triangular ligament or deep perineal fascia, which occupies the subpubic arch, has a depth of an inch and a half in the middle line, but extends somewhat farther backwards on each side, at its attachment to the ischial ramus. It consists of two layers, the upper of which is con- tinuous with the recto-vesical fascia. The membranous part of the urethra descends, first through the superior, and then through the inferior layer, about an inch from the symphysis pubis, and it is sur- rounded by the fibres of the constrictor urethrae muscle, which occupies the greater part of the space between the two layers. Near the urethra, also embedded in the muscular fibres, is Cowper’s gland. The pudic vessels and the dorsal nerve of the penis enter the base of the triangular ligament and run forwards close to the bone, in small canals formed in the origin of the constrictor muscle, and the artery gives off here its con-