534 LYMPHATICS OF THE PELVIS AND ABDOMEN. to a hundred and fifty or more ; and in the healthy state they are seldom larger than an almond. The largest are placed around the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery, but the greater number lie within the loops formed by the blood-vessels, between the layers of the mesentery, becom- ing smaller and increasing in number as they are nearer to the intestine. They are most numerous in that part of the mesentery which corresponds to the jejunum ; and, except at the lower part of the ileum, they are seldom found closer to the intestine than an inch and a half or two inches. Small glands in limited numbers are also disseminated irregu- larly between the layers of the peritoneal folds connected with the large intestine. The lacteals take their origin in the wall of the intestines, where they form two chief plexuses, one beneath the mucous membrane, and the other between the layers of the muscular coat (see the anatomy of the intestinal canal, in Yoh II). They leave the intestine at its attached border, and ascend through the mesenteric glands, gradually diminish- ing in number and increasing in size, to near the root of the superior mesenteric artery, where they are joined by the efferent vessels of the coeliac glands, and terminate sometimes in a single intestinal lymphatic trunk, sometimes in three or four vessels, which open into the lower end of the thoracic duct. The lymphatics from the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure usually join some of the lumbar lymphatics, or turn upwards and open by a separate trunk into the thoracic duct. The cceliac glands (C. Krause), from sixteen to twenty in number, and of large size, surround the cceliac axis, and cover the aorta above the superior mesenteric artery. They receive the lymphatic vessels derived from the stomach, spleen, pancreas, and the greater part of the liver ; and their efferent vessels pass with the trunks of the lacteals to the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the stomach commence in the wall of that organ, and pass upwards and downwards over its surface to the small and great curvatures respectively, where they traverse a few small gastric glands lying along the attached border of the corresponding omenta. The lymphatics of the small curvature accompany the coronary vessels to the cardiac orifice, and then turn downwards behind the pancreas to enter the coeliac glands; those of the great curvature are directed towards the pylorus, along with the right gastro-epiploic artery, and, after being joined by the lymphatics from the upper part of the duo- denum, also open into the coeliac glands. A third series of lymphatic vessels proceed from the left end of the stomach, and, following the course of the gastric branches of the splenic artery, unite with the lymphatics of the spleen. The lymphatics of the spleen are placed, some immediately under its peritoneal covering, others in the substance of the organ. Both sets converge to the inner side of the spleen, come into contact with the blood-vessels, and, accompanying these, pass through a series of small glands, to terminate in the coeliac glands. Lymphatics emerge from the pancreas at different points, and join those derived from the spleen. The lymphatics of the liver are divided into superficial, which run beneath the peritoneum on the upper and lower surfaces of the organ, and deep, which accompany the blood-vessels within its substance. On the upper surface of the liver, the lymphatic vessels are disposed in