294 Fig. 201.—A, THE LOWER JAW AND HYOID hyoid ridge ; 1, 1', the mylo-hyoid muscles ; Fig. 201. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. hyoid, genio-glossus, and parts of the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus muscles, the sublingual gland and the duct of the submaxillary gland, and the lingual branch of the fifth and the twelfth nerves. The posterior border alone is free, and around it the deep part of the submaxillary gland turns. BONE, PROM BELOW, WITH THE MYLO-HYOID MUSCLES ATTACHED. B, THE SAME FROM ABOVE AND BEHIND, WITH THE MYLO-HYOID AND GENIO-HYOID MUSCLES ATTACHED. (A. T.) ^ a, symphysis ; b, angle of the lower jaw ; c. body of the hyoid bone ; d, in B, the inferior dental foramen and upper end of the mylo- 2, 2', the genio-hyoid muscles from above ; 3, the cut ends of the attachments of the genio-glossi muscles to the superior mental spines. Varieties.—This muscle may be insepar- ably united with, and even upon one side in great part replaced by, the anterior belly of the digastric. It frequently receives an accessory slip from one of the other hyoid muscles, as the sterno-hyoid, omo-liyoid. or stylo-hyoid. A deficiency at the fore part of the muscle is of' common occur- rence, the origin not reaching farther forwards than the canine tooth. The genio-hyoid is a narrow muscle arising from the inferior of the two mental spines behind the symphysis of the jaw, and inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone. Relations.—It is in contact above with the lower border of the genio-glossus muscle, below with the mylo-hyoid. and with its fellow in the middle line. Nerves.—The elevator muscles of the hyoid bone receive their motor nerves from various sources, viz., the anterior belly of the digastric and the mylo-hyoid from the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, the poste- rior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid from the facial nerve near the place of its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, and the genio-hyoid from the hypoglossal. Actions of the Muscles of the Front of the Neck.—The two sterno-mastoid muscles acting together bend forwards the head and neck towards the sternum. If one muscle act alone, the head, while it is slightly flexed, is inclined laterally towards the side on which the muscle contracts and rotated to the opposite side. This is the attitude in wry neck 'which is due to the spasmodic or organic con- traction of one sterno-mastoid. Taking their fixed point at the head, they can elevate the upper part of the thorax in forced inspiration. While the sterno-hyoid and omo-liyoid muscles act simply as depressors of the hyoid bone, the sterno-thyroid muscle, being a direct depressor of the thyroid cartilage, can also draw down the hyoid bone when it acts in conjunction with the thyro-hyoid, the latter muscle elevating the larynx when the hyoid bone is fixed. When, in the act of swallowing, the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage have passed suddenly upwards, then- original position is restored by the action of the infra- hyoid muscles. In the utterance of low notes the larynx and hyoid bone descend below the natural level, in the direction of the sternal muscles; while in the utterance of high notes there is little elevation of the hyoid bone, but the larynx is raised by the action of the thyro-hyoid muscles. During deglutition the thyro- hyoid muscles, by drawing the thyroid cartilage up under the hyoid bone, are the principal agents in producing the descent of the epiglottis on the superior