ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 460 artery and the sciatic nerves. Continuing its course downwards, under cover of the gluteus maximus and resting upon the obturator internus and gemelli muscles, it ends as a slender vessel which accompanies the small sciatic nerve along the back of the thigh, supplying the integument and anastomosing with superficial branches of the perforating arteries. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches pass to the lower part of the gluteus maximus, anastomosing in the muscle with the gluteal artery; to the external rotator muscles, anastomosing with twigs of the pudic artery ; and to the muscles arising from the ischial tuberosity, anastomosing with the obturator and internal circumflex arteries. Fig. 274. Fig. 274.—Arteries op the back op the pelvis (from Tiedemann). J a, crest of the ilium ; b, tuber- osity of the ischium ; c, great tro- chanter ; d, integument round the anus ; e, great sciatic nerve ; 1, trunk of the gluteal artery as it issues from the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the superficial part is cut short, the deep part is seen passing forwards on the surface of the gluteus minimus muscle ; 2, placed on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, points to the pudic artery at the place where it winds over the spine of the ischium.; 2', the continua- tion of the artery in the perineum ; 3, 3, sciatic artery; the upper figure points to the trunk of the vessel, from which the anastomotic branch is seen running outwards towards the great trochanter ; the lower figure indicates the continuation of the artery along the back of the thigh ; 4, first perforating artery. (b) The coccygeal branch, inclining inwards, pierces the great sacro- sciatic ligament, and is distributed mainly to the gluteus maximus, two or three offsets perforating that muscle and ramifying in the subcutaneous tissue over the sacrum and coccyx. (c) The anastomotic branch, directed outwards to the hollow on the inner side of the great trochanter, supplies the external rotator muscles and the hip-joint, and anastomoses with offsets of the gluteal artery, with the ascending branch of the internal circumflex artery, and with the first perforating artery. {cl) The comes nervi ischiadici (vi) enters the great sciatic nerve, which it supplies, and anastomoses with twigs of the perforating arteries. (e) Several cutaneous branches pass to the integument at the lower border of the gluteus maximus, along with branches of the small sciatic nerve. Varieties.—The sciatic artery occasionally arises in common with the gluteal, leaving that vessel outside the pelvis, at the upper border of the pyriformh muscle. In a few cases this artery has been found much enlarged, and forming