:S5 MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. MUSCLES OP MASTICATION, The masseter, temporal, and two pterygoid muscles form a gi-oup of muscles of mastication, which may be properly considered together. The masseteric fascia is a continuation upwards of the deep fascia of the neck over the masseter muscle. It is firmly bound down to the outer surface of the muscle, and is attached superiorly to the zygoma. Farther back the fascia invests closely the parotid gland (parotid fascia), on the posterior and deep surfaces of which a process is also sent upwards; a strong band of this process, the stylo-maxillary ligament, extending from the angle of the jaw to the styloid process, separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. The masseter (fig. 194, 13) is a thick quadrate muscle, the fibres of which form two portions differing in size and direction. The superficial part, obliquely foursided in form, arises from the lower border of the zygo- matic arch for the anterior two-thirds, chiefly by thick tendinous bundles projecting down between the muscular fasciculi, to which they afford an extensive surface of origin : its fibres proceed downwards and back- wards to be inserted into the lower half of the ramus of the jaw, extend- ing as far as the angle. The deep part of the muscle, of a triangular form, consists of fibres which are much shorter than those of the super- ficial part, and are directed nearly vertically downwards. They arise from the posterior third of the lower border and from all the deep sur- face of the zygomatic arch, and, becoming united with the superficial part, are inserted into the upper half of the ramus of the jaw, including the coronoid process : only the upper and back part of this portion of the muscle is left uncovered by the superficial portion. Relations.—The external surface of the masseter muscle is covered for the most part only by the skin and fascia, tog-ether with, in the lower half, the platysma myoides ; it is, however, overlapped behind by the parotid gland, and crossed by its duct; some branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery also rest upon it. The fore part of its inner surface is towards the buccinator, from which it is separated by soft adipose tissue ; the greater part is in close contact with the ramus of the jaw, and covers a nerve and vessels which enter it through the sigmoid notch of that bone. The temporal fascia is a dense white shining aponeurosis, which covers the temporal muscle above the zygoma, and gives attachment to some of its fibres of origin. It is attached superiorly to the temporal crest of the frontal bone and to the upper of the two lines on the parietal bone ; w'hile interiorly it is divided into two layers which are separated by a small quantity of fat, and are attached respectively to the inner and outer surfaces of the zygomatic arch close to its upper border. This dense fascia is separated from the integuments by the layer of thin membrane descending from the epicranial aponeurosis, and by the auricular muscles ; and from the temporal muscle, at the lower part, by a layer of fat. The temporal muscle (fig. 196, 1) is fan-shaped, and arises from the whole surface of the temporal fossa, with the exception of the anterior or malar wall, and from the deep surface of the temporal fascia, except close to the zygomatic arch ; some of its posterior fibres arising from this fascia blend with the deep fibres of the masseter muscle. The direction of the anterior fibres is nearly vertical, that of the middle fibres oblique, and that of the posterior fibres at first almost horizontal. The fibres converge