THE PERINEUM OF TIIE MALE. 705 urethral part, and is often referred to as the true perineum ; the posterior division is called the anal part or the false perineum. The several muscles and fascite, vessels and nerves, which enter into the formation of the perineum have been fully described in the earlier chapters of this volume, and it now only remains to give a short sketch of its superficial and topographical anatomy, with which may he in- cluded also the relations of the adjoining parts of the pelvic viscera. Superficial anatomy.—The osseous portions of the boundaries of the perineum can be felt more or less distinctly through the skin, but the anterior portion of the subpubic- arch is obscured by the presence of the penis, and the ischial tuberosities are at some distance from the sur- face, being covered by a thick layer of fat and, in the erect position, also- by the great gluteal muscles. The saero-sciatic ligament is scarcely to be distinguished beneath the gluteus maximus, except in very thin subjects. The lower part of the coccyx is very plainly felt. The anus is placed directly between the ischial tuberosities, its centre being about one inch and a half from the extremity of the coccyx. The skin of the perineum is thin and provided with more or less abun- dant hairs ; it is gathered into puckered folds round the anus, to which a farther irregularity is often given by swollen haemorrhoidal veins. In front of the anus is a median ridge, the raphe, which runs forwards and is continued on to the scrotum and penis. Beneath this, the bulb of the urethra forms a slight median elevation, more perceptible in emaciated subjects. In such subjects again, the fat in the ischio-rectal fossa does- not reach the level of the ischial tuberosities so as to form a rounded surface sinking in towards the anus, as is the case in those who are well nourished. A line white line round the anus indicates the point of junction of the skin and mucous membrane, and corresponds precisely to the division between the external and internal sphincters (Hilton). One inch in front of the anus is situated the central point of the perineum, which corresponds to the centre of the free border of the triangular ligament. Immediately in front of this, the bulb of the urethra commences, but the membranous part perforates the triangular ligament about half an inch farther forwards, and therefore one inch and a half in front of the anus. Topographical anatomy.—The superficial fascia of the perineum consists of two layers, the more superficial of which is the ordinary subcutaneous fascia and contains fat, especially in the posterior portion of the space, where it is very abundant and fills the ischio-rectal fossa. The deeper layer or fascia of Colies, is membranous, and is confined to the anterior part of the space ; it is attached on each side to the rami of the ischium and pubis, and posteriorly to the base of the triangular liga- ment ; it thus forms a somewhat triangular pouch in the fore part of the perineum, which may modify the course of an extravasation of urine or a collection of pus in this situation. The pouch is, moi’eover, subdivided posteriorly by a median septum which extends from the back of the perineum to the scrotum. The hinder part of the perineum is occupied in the centre by the lower end of the rectum, and between this and the ischial tuberosity on each side is a considerable hollow known as the ischio-rectal fossa. The ischio-rectal fossa is a hollow of an irregularly pyramidal shape. Its base is turned downwards, and measures about two inches from before back, and one inch from side to side. Its outer wall is perpendicular,. VOL. I. Z Z