Fig. 110. COMPARISON OF HAND AND FOOT. or metatarsal bones. 133 Fig. 110.—Dorsal surface of the right manus of a are some differences which may be referred to here at greater length. There can, indeed, be no doubt as to the homological correspondence of the trapezium, trape- zoid and magnum with the internal, middle and external cuneiform bones of the tarsus respectively, nor of the unciform with the cuboid bone; and all the more water tortoise. (Flower after Gegenbaur.) R, radius ; U, ulna ; r, radiale; i, intermedium ; ■u, ulnare ; c, centrale ; 1—5, five carpal bones of the distal row ; m1—m5, five metacarpals. in the case of the last two bones, that it is found that in the Chelonia and some other reptiles and amphibia, the second series of carpal and tarsal hones are increased to five by the division of the unciform of the hand and cuboid of the foot into two each ; thus giving one carpal or tarsal bone for articulation with each of the five metacarpal Upon the homologies of the proximal series of bones, new light has been thrown by the researches of Gegenbaur, (“ Untersuch. zur Vergleich. Anat.. &c., Carpus and Tarsus,” Leipzig, 1864). In the simplest and most constant form of this series in the carpus, he distinguishes typically three bones, viz., a radial, an intermediate, and an ulnar, corresponding respectively to the scaphoid, lunar and pyramidal bones of human anatomy. The pisiform he re- gards as an osseous element developed in the tendon of a muscle (flexor carpi ulnaris), and therefore not holding the same rank in the series as the other bones, but constituting an ulnar sesamoid. In the foot Gegenbaur shows that the astray- ulus corresponds to the united scaphoid and lunar of the hand, a condition of these two bones not unfrequent among the carnivora, or to the proximal parts Fig. 111. Fig. 112. Fig. 111.—Dorsal surface of the right carpus of man (Flower), i- s, scaphoid ; l, lunar ; c, cuneiform or pyramidal; p, pisiform ; tm, trapezium; td, trapezoid ; m, magnum ; u, unciform ; I—V, five metacarpals. Fig. 112.—Dorsal surface of the carpus of a baboon (Flower). s, scaphoid ; l, lunar ; c, cuneiform or pyramidal ; p, pisiform ; tm, trapezium : td, trapezoid ; m, magnum ; u, unciform ; rs, radial sesamoid ; ce, os centrale ; I—V, five metacarpals. at least of these bones. In some mammals (Siniioe and Rodentia), as well as in reptiles and amphibia, another bone, the os centrale, has long been known to exist, interposed between the bones of the proximal and distal rows. This element is not represented in the osseous carpus of man, but at an early period of fcetal life a rudiment is present in the form of a small independent cartilage placed between the scaphoid, magnum, trapezium, and trapezoid. As described by Rosenberg and Kolliker it is distinct in the second month, being formed