ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 146.—Sagittal section1 op the left knee- 171 Fig. 146. the femur ; 1', an aperture made into the posterior circle ; its two extremities are fixed, one in front of, the other between the points of the spine of the tibia, and are so close at their insertion that they may be said to be interposed between the attachments of the in- ternal semilunar plate. Its external border is in contact behind with the tendon of the popliteus muscle, and is therefore separated by this from the fibrous capsule. From the posterior extremity of this fibro- cartilage a ligamentous band ascends, to be attached to the inner condyle of the femur in connection, either in front or behind, with the posterior crucial ligament. Transverse ligament.—Towards the front of the joint the convex borders of the semilunar fibro-cartilages are connected by a slight transverse band which receives this name. Its thickness varies much in different bodies, and it is sometimes wanting. Capsular membrane.—Under this name is described the fibrous membrane which invests the joint in the intervals between the stronger bands which have been named ligaments. It is incomplete, not ex- joint, SEEN FROM THE OUTER OR LEFT SIDE. (A. T.) i The section is made somewhat obliquely a little to the outside of the middle, so as to preserve entire the crucial ligaments with their attachments : it is from a young subject of eighteen or nineteen years. 1, 1, the upper portion of the synovial cavity ex- tending upwards between the extensor tendon and portion of the synovial cavity ; 2, 2', mucous liga- ment ; 3, ligamentum patellae; 2, 3, infrapatellar synovial fatty cushion ; 4, bursa above the inser- tion of the ligamentum patellae into the tubercle of the tibia ; 5, 5', anterior crucial ligament; 5', points also to the internal semilunar fibro-caitilage within the joint ; 6, lower part of the posterior crucial ligament, the upper part of which is towards 2 ; 6', the accessory band joining the ex- ternal semilunar fibro-cartilage, which is cut short; 7, spine of the tibia. tending underneath the tendons of the extensor muscles. Between the sides of the patella and the femur it consists of fibres connected with the insertions of the vasti muscles and with the fascia lata, and thus forms the structures which have been called lateral patellar liga- ments. Posteriorly it is thin, covering the condyles of the femur beneath the gastrocnemius muscle, and it frequently presents an aperture beneath the inner head of that muscle, through which the bursa under the semi- membranosus tendon is put into communication with the joint cavity. The synovial membrane is the largest in the body. Traced down- wards from the femur on either side of the joint, it may be followed along the capsule to the upper surfaces of the semilunar fibro-cartilages, round the free borders of those structures to their inferior surfaces, and thence to the tibia. The crucial ligaments are invested in front by a reflected portion of the membrane continued forwards from the posterior wall ot