365 COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. as high as the hyoid bone, and occasionally much higher. It is found occasionally opposite the middle of the larynx, and, in rare instances, opposite the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, or even lower. One case was observed by Morgagni, in which the carotid artery, measuring one inch and a half in length, divided at the root of the neck. The carotid artery has been found, as a very rare occurrence, to ascend in the neck without dividing into the two usual branches ; either the external or the internal carotid being altogether wanting.. In a few recorded cases there was no common carotid artery, the external and internal^carotids arising directly from the arch of the aorta (Malacame, Power), or from the termination of the innominate artery (Kosinski, Bull, de la Soc. Anat. 1867). Relation to nerves.—The pneumo-gastric nerve has been observed to descend in front of the artery (R. Quain). Occasional branches.—The common carotid artery sometimes gives origin at its upper part to the superior thyroid or ascending pharyngeal artery ; and in some rare cases, to a laryngeal or an inferior or accessory thyroid branch ; also in a few instances, to the vertebral artery. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. As the common carotid does not in ordinary cases furnish any branch, a ligature may be applied to any part of the vessel except close to its commence- ment or termination. It is usually tied either immediately above or below the omo-hyoid muscle, the former situation being preferred if possible, since the artery is here more superficial, and the operation is consequently free from the difficulties caused by the muscles lower down. An incision is made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, through the integuments and fascia, and in doing this the communicating vein above referred to (p. 364), if present, must be avoided, or it may if necessary be secured with two ligatures and then divided. A small branch of the superior thyroid artery to the sterno-mastoid muscle will also probably be cut. The sterno-mastoid is next everted, and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid displayed and drawn inwards. The sheath is now exposed and is to be opened over the artery near the trachea, in order to avoid the internal jugular vein, and it is best to insert the aneurism needle conveying the ligature on the outer side of the artery, for thus the vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve will be most effectually avoided. In opening the sheath the possible occurrence of a middle thyroid vein, crossing the artery at the level of the cricoid cartilage, should be borne in mind, and the descendens noni nerve, if it comes into view, must be carefully preserved. Should the jugular vein overlap the artery, as it sometimes does, especially at the lower part of the neck on the left side, it will be a source of much difficulty in completing the operation, and great caution will be required in passing the needle round the artery. If the operation is performed at the lower part of the neck, some fibres of the muscles will require to be cut across in order to lay the artery bare with facility; and the necessity for this step increases in approaching the clavicle. Near the clavicle also the transverse lower portion of the anterior jugular vein crosses the line of the incision. Collateral circulation.—After ligature of the common carotid trunk the blood is conveyed to the cerebral and ophthalmic branches of the internal carotid from the vertebral arteries and the internal carotid of the opposite side, by means of the free communications existing between these vessels in the circle of Willis. The branches of the external carotid receive blood from the subclavian artery through the anasto- moses of the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, and of the occipital with the deep cervical artery, and from the external carotid of the opposite side through the anastomoses of the two superior thyroid, lingual, facial, superficial temporal, and occipital arteries.