338 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. subclavian, and is continued into the axillary artery. It has an average length of about three inches on the right side; an inch more on the left. The subclavian artery is considerably larger than the common carotid ; and as the trunk gives origin to several large branches it diminishes in size towards its termination (from 11 to 9 mm.). The left artery is almost constantly a little smaller than the right. Each subclavian artery is conveniently divided into three parts,—the first part extending from the origin of the vessel to the inner border of the anterior scalenus muscle ; the second consisting of the portion of the vessel situated behind that musole ; and the third reaching outwards to the external border of the first rib. In examining each of these portions in detail, it will be necessary to give a separate description of the first part on the right and the left sides, as there is a material difference in the origin, course, and relations of the two vessels. The first part of the right subclavian artery commences close to the trachea, at the division of the innominate artery, behind the upper part of the sterno-clavicular articulation, and ends at the inner margin of the anterior scalenus muscle. Separating gradually from the carotid artery, it arches upwards and outwards, and ascends above the level of the clavicle to an extent which varies in different cases. It is deeply placed, being covered by the stemo-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles, and the deep cervical fascia. It is in contact with the pleura below and behind. Relation to veins.—The right innominate vein lies below and somewhat in front of this part of the artery, while the internal jugular and vertebral veins, in their course to join the innominate, descend over its anterior surface. Farther forwards the anterior jugular vein passes transversely outwards, but is separated from the artery by the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles. Relation to nerves.—The pneumo-gastric nerve crosses the front of the artery to the inner side of the internal jugular vein, and its recurrent laryngeal branch, turning round below the artery, ascends behind. Some cardiac nerves and a loop or two of the sympathetic descend over the artery, while the main trunk of the latter passes behind. The first part of the left subclavian artery arises from the upper aspect of the arch of the aorta, at the left end of its transverse portion, and is, therefore, much longer than the first part of the right subclavian. It ascends almost vertically out of the thorax to the root of the neck, where it turns sharply outwards, across the apex of the lung, to reach the interval between the scaleni muscles. It is at first overlapped by the left lung, and is covered in front and on the left side by the pleura ; it rests for a short space on the oesophagus (here deviating to the left side) and the thoracic duct, and afterwards on the longus colli muscle. To the inner or right side of the vessel is at first the trachea, and higher up are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. The left common carotid artery lies farther forwards than the subclavian artery, and is not in contact with it. The thoracic duct arches from behind forwards and outwards over this part of the artery in its course to the angle of union of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. Relation to veins.—The internal jugular and vertebral veins are im- mediately in front of the artery, where it turns outwards from the thorax, close to the scalenus muscle ; and lower down the left innominate vein is anterior to it.