338 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. which descends to the side of the bladder and prostate is known as the lateral true ligament of the bladder ; and farther back, the part joining the side of the rectum has been called the ligament of the rectum (Ellis). There is also seen on the upper surface of the recto-vesical fascia another thickened band, which springs from the pubis in common with the anterior true ligament of the bladder, and passes backwards and out- wards to the ischial spine, thus strengthening the floor of the pelvic cavity, and assisting materially in the support of the bladder. This is the so-called white line of the pelvic fascia, and in its posterior part it corresponds to the place of origin of the recto-vesical fascia from the obturator fascia. At its connection with the viscera, the recto-vesical fascia has the following arrangement. The anterior part of the fascia meets the side of the bladder along the line of its junction with the prostate, and there Fig. 221. Fig. 221.—Diagram of an oblique section of the pelvis in the situation indicated by the line B, B', in fig. 220. (G.D.T.) § a, section of hip-bone, passing behind the centre of the acetabulum ; b, bladder; c, vesicula seminalis and vas deferens of the right side ; d, rectum ; 1, obturator internus muscle ; 2, 2, obturator fascia, in the lower part of which the pudic vessels and nerve are contained in a sheath ; 3, recto-vesical fascia ; 4, its upper layer attached to the bladder; 5, its lower layer passing across in front of the rectum, and continuous with, 6, the lateral part of the investment of the rectum ; 7, levator ani, the dotted line on its under surface indicates the position of the anal fascia ; 8, external sphincter ; 9, 9, peritoneum. divides into two layers. The upper of these is short and is reflected upwards, soon becoming closely united with the muscular coat of the bladder: the lower is stronger and more extensive, and is continued downwards, forming the sheath of the prostate, which at the apex of that gland is continued into the superior layer of the deep perineal fascia (triangular ligament of the urethra). In the angle between the two layers, and between the sheath and the substance of the prostate, are con- tained the large veins of the prostatic plexus, but these structures are so