SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 392 one or more of the first three branches are moved considerably inwards from their usual position, or outwards to another division of the subclavian. Some- times two, and much more rarely three, branches arise from the third part of the vessel. A small muscular and spinal branch is frequently given off from the second part of the artery. BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 1. Vertebral artery (iii).—The vertebral artery arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian, on the right side generally about three- quarters of an inch from its commencement, on the left side from the bend formed by the main trunk as it turns outwards at the root of the neck, and, passing upwards and a little backwards and outwards, enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra. It then ascends in a vertical direction through the series of foramina in the transverse processes, as far as the upper border of the axis, where it inclines outwards to reach the corresponding foramen of the atlas ; after passing through that aperture it winds backwards and inwards in the groove on the neural arch of the atlas, and, piercing the dura mater, Fig. 243. the deep cervical artery, arising in common with 6', the superior- artery, emerging from beneath the sterno-mastoid. Fig. 243.—Deep dis- section OP THE NECK, SHOWING THE OIIIGIN AND COURSE OP THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY (from Tiedemann). I a, Upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; its clavicular part is di- vided below; b, spinous process of axis ; c, su- perior oblique muscle ; d, on the inferior oblique muscle, points by a line to the posterior arch of the atlas; e, semispinalis colli ; /, placed on the longus colli, points to the transverse process of the sixth cervical verte- bra ; y, on the first rib, points to the scalenus anticus muscle, cut near its attachment; 1, in- nominate artery; 2, right common carotid ; 3, right subclavian ; below it, the origin of the internal mammary artery; above it, 4, the thyroid axis ; 5, 5, ver- tebral artery, passing up through the transverse processes and giving- branches to the muscles; 5', on the rectus posticus major, points to its hori- zontal part on the arch of the atlas ; 6, points to intercostal; 7, occipital