193 LATISSIMUS DORSI.—EHOMBOIDEI. Fig. 155.—Superficial muscles of the trunk, shoulder and hip, viewed from BEHIND. (A. T.) £ a, external occipital protuberance ; b, acromion; c, crest of the ilium ; 1, trapezius; 1', oval tendon of the two muscles in the upper dorsal and lower cervical region ; 1", triangular tendon of insertion ; 2, latissimus dorsi; 2', 2/ its costal origins and its origin from the crest of the ilium ; 1, 2', c, tendon of latissimus dorsi blended with the pos- terior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis ; 3, sterno-mastoid ; 4, deltoid ; 5, infraspinatus ; 6, teres minor ; 7, teres major ; 8, rhomboideus major; below this on the left side is seen a triangular space bounded by the rhomboid, trapezius, and latissimus dorsi muscles, in which parts of the sixth and seventh ribs are exposed ; 9, back part of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; between 9 and 2', a small part of the internal oblique ; 10, part of the gluteus medius covered by the fascia lata; 11, gluteus maximus; 12, gracilis ; 13, small part of the adductor magnus; 14, semitendinosus ; 15, biceps ; 16, fascia lata covering the vastus externus. itself, the anterior surface of the tendon is continuous with the posterior surface of the rest of the muscle. Relations.—The latissimus dorsi is subcutaneous, except at its origin from the dorsal vertebrae, where it is covered by the trapezius, and at its insertion, where it is crossed by the axillary vessels and the nerves of the brachial plexus. It rests on part of the rhomboideus major and infraspinatus, on the teres major, serratus posticus inferior, vertebral aponeurosis, external intercostal muscles, and the posterior borders of the external and internal oblique muscles. Between the adjacent borders of the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, and rhom- boideus major, there is left, when the scapula is drawn forwards, a triangular area in which a portion of one or two ribs and of an intercostal space becomes superficial; this is taken advantage of for the purpose of auscultation. Varieties.—The number of dorsal vertebrae to which the latissimus dorsi is attached varies from four to seven or eight, and the number of the costal attachments is also inconstant, being frequently diminished and more rarely in- creased. Muscular bands (axillary arches') are sometimes seen to pass from this muscle near its insertion across the great vessels and nerves to the fore part of the axilla, where they terminate variously, in the tendon of the greater pectoral, in the coraco-brachialis muscle, the biceps, or in the fascia. From the lower border of the tendon a muscular slip is occasionally given downwards to the long head of the triceps, to the fascia, or to the internal intermuscular septum of the arm, cor- responding to the dorso-ejpitrochlearis muscle of apes and many other mammals. The rhomboideus minor, a comparatively narrow muscle, arises from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae and from the ligamentum nuchae. It inclines downwards and outwards, and is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite the triangular sur- face at the commencement of the spine. The rhomboideus major, much broader than the preceding muscle, lies immediately below and in contact with it. It arises from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebra; and the supraspinous ligament, and is inserted into that part of the base of the scapula which is included between the spine and inferior angle. A considerable part of the attachment at the insertion is only by firm connective tissue, and the greater portion of the fibres, instead of being fixed directly to the bone, end in a tendon which is connected to the scapula near the lower angle ; in consequence of this arrangement, the muscle may in part be separated from the bone without division of its muscular or tendinous fibres, and must therefore act most immediately on the lower angle. Relations.—The greater part of the rhomboidei muscles is covered by the trapezius, a small angular portion only of the rhomboideus major being sub* VOL. I. O