543 EXIT OE CRANIAL NERVES. Volume (pp. 363-370), and will not be farther referred to in this place, where the descriptions of the several nerves will commence with their appearance on the surface of the brain. Mode of exit from the cranium.—Each of the cranial nerves in leaving the cranial cavity passes through a foramen or tubular prolonga- tion of the dura mater : some of these nerves or their main divisions are contained in distinct foramina of the cranium, others are grouped Eig. 312.—Internal view of the base of the skull, showing the places of exit OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. (A. T.) A The dura mater is left for the most part within the base of the skull; the tentorium is removed and the venous sinuses] are opened. On the left side a small portion of the roof of the orbit has been removed to show the relation of certain nerves at the cavernous sinus and in the sphenoidal fissure. The roots of the several cranial nerves have been divided a short distance internal to the foramina of the dura mater through which they respectively pass. I, olfactory bulb, lying over the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; II, optic nerves ; III, common oculomotor nerve ; IV, trochlear nerve ; V, is placed on the left side opposite to the middle of the three divisions of the trifacial nerve, which, together with the ganglion and large root, have been exposed by opening up the dura mater; on the right side the large root only is seen ; VI, abducent ocular nerve ; VII, placed on the upper part of the petrous bone opposite the entrance of the facial and auditory nerves into the internal auditory meatus ; VIII, placed on the petrous bone outside the jugular foramen opposite the place of exit of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and sp>inal accessory nerves ; IX, hypoglossal nerve. On the left side, in relation with the cavernous sinus, the third, fourth, and ophthalmic division of the fifth nerves are seen keeping towards the outer side, while the sixth nerve is deeper and close to the internal carotid artery. The explanation of the remaining references in this figure will be found at p. 504. VOL. I. N N