578 CRANIAL NERVES. nerve with its filament of union with the facial, one or two twigs which pass downwards and forwards through the anterior wall of the tympanum to the carotid canal and join the sympathetic on the carotid artery, and the small deep petrosal nerve (Arnold) which runs forwards in a minute canal in the substance of the processus cochleariformis and enters the foramen lacerum, where it joins the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, sometimes also the large superficial petrosal nerve. B. Branches distributed in the neck. Pharyngeal branches.—The largest of these (carotid branch, pharyngeal division of the glosso-pliaryngeal nerve—Henle) descends along the internal carotid artery and unites with the pharyngeal branch of the vagus to form the pharyngeal plexus (p. 582); this branch is sometimes divided into two or even three parts. One or two smaller twigs pass inwards through the superior constrictor muscle, and supply the mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx. A muscular branch is furnished to the stylo-pharyngeus, and sends also filaments through the muscle to the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Tonsillitic branches. — Slender filaments pass from the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, as it approaches the base of the tongue, to the tonsil, over which they form a sort of plexus (circulus tonsillaris), to the soft palate, and to the pillars of the fauces. Lingual branches.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve divides as it passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle into two parts. One turns to the upper surface of the tongue and subdivides into many branches, which supply the circumvallate papillae and the mucous membrane over the posterior third of the organ, the hindmost filaments reaching the anterior surface of the epiglottis. The other is smaller, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the side of the tongue, extending to about the middle of its length, where it forms a communication with the lingual nerve. Variety.—In one case a branch, from the glosso-pharyngeal supplied the mylo- hyoid muscle and the anterior belly of the digastric, the normal mylo-hyoid nerve being wanting (Guy’s Hosp. Reports, vol. xiv., p. 436). Summary.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve distributes branches to the mucous membrane of the tongue, pharynx and middle ear, as well as to one muscle—the stylo-pharyngeus. It is connected with the following nerves, viz., the inferior maxillary division of the fifth (through the otic ganglion), the facial, the pneumo-gastric (its trunk and branches), and the sympathetic. X.—PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. The tenth or pneumo-gastric nerve (nervus vagus, par vagum, second trunk of the eighth pair of Willis) is much larger than the glosso- pharyngeal, and has the longest course of all the cranial nerves, extending through the neck and thorax to the upper part of the abdomen. It arises from the medulla oblongata immediately in front of the restiform body, by twelve or fifteen filaments beginning close below, and continuing the line of, the roots of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. These form at first a flat band, which is directed outwards below the flocculus to the middle compartment of the jugular foramen. Here the