ARTICULATIONS OF THE LITER LIMB. 158 annular ligament of the radius, some of its hinder fibres being prolonged to the ulna. The anterior ligament consists of a thin sheet of fibres, strongest Fig. 134. Fig. 134.—Sagittal section op the elbow-joint through THE OP.EAT SIGMOID CAVITY OP THE ULNA AND THE TROCH- LEAR SURFACE OF TIIE HUMERUS. (A. T.) I 1, cut surface of the humerus ; 2, that of the ulna ; 3, pos- terior part, and 4, anterior part of the synovial cavity of the joint; 5, orbicular ligament ; 6, tendon of the biceps muscle ; 7, is at the lower end of the oblique ligament. in its middle part, extending downwards from above the coronoid fossa of the humerus to the coronoid process of the ulna and the orbicular ligament. The posterior ligament is comparatively thin and weak, and consists of loose and irregular fibres passing transversely across the olecranon fossa of the humerus, and from the sides of that fossa to the olecranon process, thus completing the capsule of the joint behind. The synovial membrane extends upwards on the humerus so far as to line the fossae for the coronoid and olecranon processes, and is loose and vascular in the latter positions. It is also prolonged round the neck of the radius, and lines the annular ligament. Movements.—Flexion and extension are the only movements which take place between the humerus and ulna; and in the perfect limb these are arrested, liexion by the meeting' of the soft parts of the arm and forearm, extension by the tightening of the ligaments and muscles on the front of the joint, before the coronoid and olecranon processes meet the bottom of their respective fossae on the humerus. The path of motion is in a nearly vertical plane, with a direction slightly outwards in extension. The inner lip of the trochlea being prominent below, forms an expansion which corresponds to an inward projection of the coronoid part of the ulnar surface; while the outer lip of the trochlea, being enlarged at the upper and back part, forms a surface which is only in use in complete extension, and which then corresponds to a surface on the outer aspect of the olecranon, which comes into contact with no other part of the humerus. In flexion and extension the radius moves by its cup-shaped head upon the capitellum, and on the groove between that process and the trochlea by a ridge internal to the cup. It is most completely in contact with the humerus in the position of semi-flexion and semi-pronation. THE WRIST-JOINT AND ARTICULATIONS OP THE HAND. The radio-carpal articulation, or wrist-joint, is formed between the radius and triangular fibro-cartilage above, and the scaphoid, semi- lunar and pyramidal bones below. The superior surface is concave both transversely and from before backwards ; the inferior surface is correspondingly convex, and is prolonged farther down upon the carpal bones behind than in front. The articular surface of the radius is subdivided into two parts by a linear elevation ; an outer, triangular, for the scaphoid, and an inner, quadrilateral, which together with the triangular fibro-cartilage, corresponds to the semilunar bone. The small articular surface of the pyramidal is in most cases in contact with the fibro-cartilage only when the band is adducted.