517 INFERIOR VENA CAYA. INFERIOR VENA CAVA. The inferior or ascending vena cava returns the blood from the lower limbs and abdomen. It begins at the junction of the two common iliac veins in front of the fifth lumbar vertebra, and thence ascends along the right side of the aorta, being covered by the duodenum, pancreas, and commencement of the portal vein, to the posterior border of the liver ; there it becomes embedded in a deep groove, not unfrequently a canal, in that organ, and inclines forwards to reach its opening in the tendon of the diaphragm, to the margin of which the wall of the vessel is firmly united. After perforating the diaphragm, it is enclosed for a very short distance in a fold of the serous layer of the pericardium, and then terminates by entering the right auricle of the heart. A semilunar valve, known as the valve of Eustachius, is situated over its entrance into the auricle, but this, as explained in the description of the heart, is only the vestige of a foetal structure, variable in size, and without in- fluence in preventing reflux of the blood. Tributaries.—Besides the common iliac veins, the inferior vena cava receives the following :— 1. The lumbar veins (fig. 298, p. 513) correspond in number with the arteries of the same name. They are formed by the junction of anterior branches from the wall of the abdomen, where they communi- cate with the epigastric and other neighbouring veins, and posterior branches, of larger size, which receive tributaries from the muscles of the back, the dorsal spinal plexus, and the spinal canal. Passing for- wards upon the bodies of the vertebrae, behind the psoas muscle, and on the left side also behind the aorta, they terminate by opening into the back of the inferior vena cava. Two of the vessels, either of the same or of opposite sides, may join together into a single trunk before their termination. The lumbar veins of each side communicate with one another by means of branches which cross in front of the transverse processes, and in this way a longitudinal vessel is formed, called the ascending lumbar vein, which connects together more or less completely the lateral sacral, ilio-lumbar, common iliac, and lumbar veins, and is continued upwards into the corresponding azygos vein. 2. The spermatic veins (in the male) proceed upwards from the testicle and epididymis, and form in the spermatic cord a thick plexus of convoluted vessels known as the spermatic or pampiniform plexus. Passing through the inguinal canal into the abdomen, in company with the spermatic artery, the branches from this plexus join into two or three veins, and these again unite into a single vessel which ascends be- neath the peritoneum, on the surface of the psoas muscle, and opens on the right side into the vena cava, on the left into the renal vein. The spermatic veins sometimes bifurcate before their termination, and in this case one branch may enter the vena cava, the other the renal vein. In the female the ovarian veins have the same general course as the ovarian arteries ; they form a plexus near the ovary (ovarian or pampini- form plexus') in the broad ligament, and communicate freely with the uterine plexus. Imperfect valves are present in the spermatic veins below the external abdominal ring ; and in exceptional cases they have been seen in the ovarian veins. There is also in most cases a valve at the termination of each spermatic or ovarian vein, but this is not unfrequently absent on