ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 486 the external malleolar, the peroneal, external plantar, and metatarsal arteries. It furnishes offsets to the extensor brevis digitorum, and to the tarsal articulations. 2. The metatarsal artery, arising near the bases of the metatarsal bones, is also directed outwards beneath the short extensor muscle, and terminates in branches which anastomose with offsets of the tarsal and external plantar arteries. It supplies small branches to the extensor brevis digitorum muscle and the articulations of the foot, and from the fore part of the arch formed by the vessel three dorsal interosseous arteries are given off. The dorsal interosseous arteries (vi) pass forwards over the outer three intermetatarsal spaces, resting upon the dorsal interosseous muscles, to which they furnish small offsets. Opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, each artery divides into two dorsal digital branches, which run along the contiguous borders of the corresponding toes. These arteries communicate with the plantar arch at the back part of the interosseous spaces by means of the posterior perforating branches, and, less constantly, with the plantar digital arteries at the fore part of the spaces by the anterior perforating branches. From the outermost interosseous artery, or from the metatarsal artery itself, a small branch is given off to the outer border of the little toe. 3. The first dorsal interosseous artery (v), continuing the direction of the dorsal artery of the foot, runs forwards over the dorsal interosseous muscle of the first space, communicates with the correspond- ing plantar digital artery by an anterior perforating branch, and divides into dorsal digital branches for both sides of the great toe, and the inner side of the second toe. The branch to the inner side of the great toe is, however, frequently small or wanting. 4. The plantar digital branch passes forwards in the first inter- osseous space, sends inwards across the first metatarsal bone the artery for the inner side of the great toe, and terminates by dividing into collateral digital branches for the adjacent sides of the first and second toes. Varieties of the anterior tihial artery .—Origin.—In instances of early di- vision of the popliteal artery, the place of origin of the anterior tibial is necessarily higher than usual, and in these cases the commencement of the vessel may either descend by the side of the posterior tibial artery behind the popliteus, or it may pass in front of that muscle, resting against the outer tuberosity of the tibia, to reach the upper end of the interosseous space. The peroneal artery is occasionally found conjoined with the anterior tibial, that vessel having either a normal or a high origin. Course.—The anterior tibial artery has been observed inclining outwards towards the fibula in the lower part of the leg, and then returning to its ordinary position on the dorsum of the foot. It has also been seen coming to the surface in the middle of the leg, and continued downwards from that point, covered only by the fascia and the integument, (Pelletan, “ Clinique Chirurgicale,” p. 101 ; Velpeau, “Medecine Operatoire,” t. i. p. 137). Velpeau also states that in one case the artery gained the front of the leg by passing with the musculo-cutaneous nerve round the outer side of the fibula. Size.—This vessel is more frequently diminished than increased in size. It may he defective in various degrees. Thus, the dorsal artery of the foot may fail to enter the sole, and the digital branches to the great and second toes are then derived from the external or the internal plantar division of the posterior tibial. In a farther degree of diminution, the anterior tibial ends at the ankle, or in the lower part of the leg : its place being then taken by the