9 THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. process of ossification advances. The following is a statement of the number usually reckoned as distinct in middle life :— The vertebral column . Single bones. . 26 Pairs. Total. 26 The skull . . 6 8 22 The hyoid bone . . 1 . . 1 The ribs and sternum . . 1 12 25 The upper limbs . 32 U The lower limbs. 31 62 34 83 200 Besides the bones included in the above enumeration, there exist like- wise the three pairs of auditory ossicles, and various bones formed in tendons and called sesamoid, the most constant of which are, besides the patella and pisiform bone, reckoned in the table above as limb bones, a pah’ in each thumb and great toe. I.—THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The vertebral column is composed of a series of bones called vertebra, which are united together, for the most part, by joints and elastic substance in such a manner that, although the amount of motion allowed between each pair is slight, the aggregate is sufficient to give the column very considerable flexibility. The vertebrae are originally thirty-three in number. Of these, the twenty-four upper remain separate in the adult, retaining their mobility, and are hence called moveable vertebrae. They are succeeded by five others, which rapidly diminish in size from above downwards, and which are united into one mass called the sacrum ; beyond the sacrum are four dwindled terminal members of the series, which as age advances, likewise become more or less united, and form the coccyx. These sacral and coccygeal vertebrae are known as the fixed or united vertebrae. General characters of the Vertebrae.—The general characters are best seen in the vertebrae placed near the middle of the column, of which the sixth dorsal vertebra, shown in Fig. 8, may serve as an example. Each has more or less the form of a ring, and presents for consideration a body, arch, processes, and the enclosed spinal foramen. The body or centrum is a short cylinder or disc, which forms the anterior part of the vertebra. Its superior and inferior surfaces arc flattened and connected to the next vertebrae by strong and elastic intervertebral discs. On the front and sides it is convex horizontally, but slightly concave from above downwards ; its posterior surface forms part of the ring, and is slightly concave from side to side. These vertical surfaces are pierced by numerous small foramina for the passage of blood-vessels, and near the middle of the posterior surface are one or two much larger than the others. The arch (neural) consists of two symmetrical portions which spring, one on each side, from the posterior surface of the body, and meet in the middle line behind. The anterior part of each half, thick and narrow, is called the pedicle; the posterior part is broad and flat, and is called the lamina. The concavities on the upper and lower borders of the