575 AUDITORY NERVE. The inframaxillary "branch perforates the deep cervical fascia and divides into slender offsets, which form arches beneath the platysma as low as the hyoid bone. Some branches join the superficial cervical nerve beneath the platysma, others enter that muscle, and a few perforate it to end in the integument. Summary.—The facial nerve is the principal motor nerve of the head, supplying all the superficial, and several of the deep muscles. Its super- ficial offsets are distributed to the muscles of the scalp, the muscles of the external ear, nose, mouth, and eyelids (with the exception of the levator palpebrae superioris), and to the cutaneous muscle of the neck (platysma). It likewise supplies the muscles of the tympanum, the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles (through the large superficial petrosal nerve), and in the neck the stylo-hyoid and the posterior belly of the digastric. The facial nerve is freely connected with the three divisions of the fifth nerve ; and it also has communications with the spheno-maxillary, sub- maxillary and otic ganglia, with the auditory, glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric nerves (through the auricular branch of the latter), and with parts of the sympathetic and spinal nerves. VIII.—AUDITORY NERVE. The eighth or auditory nerve (portio mollis of the seventh pair of ’Willis) makes its appearance on the outer side of the facial nerve, and is closely adherent for a short distance to the lower border of the pons (or middle peduncle of the cerebellum). It commences by two roots, the one of which (the inferior) arises in part superficially from the floor of the fourth ventricle, and in part issues from the inner side of the resti- forrn body, while the other (the superior) emerges slightly higher up from the front of the restiform body. The two roots unite as they leave the medulla oblongata, and the nerve is directed outwards to the internal auditory meatus, in company with the facial nerve, which rests in a groove along its upper and fore part, and the auditory artery, which, together with the portio intermedia of the facial nerve, is placed between the two trunks. In the meatus, the nerve divides into an upper smaller and a lower larger part; the upper division furnishes branches to the utricle and the ampullae of the superior and external semicircular canals, wfoile the lower is mainly distributed to the cochlea, but also sends offsets to the saccule and the posterior semi- circular canal. (See the anatomy of the ear in Yol. II.) The auditory nerve often receives some of the fibres of the portio intermedia, and its upper division is connected at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus with the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. IX.—GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. The ninth or glosso-pharyngeal nerve (first trunk of the eighth pair of Willis) arises from the uppe^- part of the medulla oblongata, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies, by five or six filaments arranged in a vertical line commencing immediately below the facial and auditory nerves. From its origin, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve is directed outwards in