541 LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. integument of the neck, by the vessels issuing from the suboccipital and mastoid glands, and by some of those from the parotid and submaxillary lymphatic glands. Their efferent ducts enter the inferior deep cervical glands. One or two small glands are sometimes found near the middle line of the front of the neck between the hyoid bone and the sternum, less frequently at the back of the neck over the trapezius muscle. 7. The deep cervical glands are very numerous (twenty to thirty), and are subdivided into superior and inferior. The superior extend from the bifurcation of the common carotid artery to the base of the skull, lying for the most part along the internal jugular vein. They receive the efferent vessels of the internal maxillary and some of the submaxillary glands, the lymphatics of the cranial cavity, the tongue, larynx, and lower part of the pharynx, some of those of the thyroid body and the deep muscles of the neck. Their efferent vessels descend to the following glands. The inferior deep cervical glands are grouped around the lower part of the internal jugular vein, and extend outwards into the supra- clavicular fossa, becoming continuous below with the glands of the superior mediastinum internally, and those of the axilla externally. They receive the efferent vessels of the other cervical glands, both superficial and deep, and the lymphatics from the lower part of the neck. Their efferent ducts unite to form a single vessel (jugular lymphatic trunk) which terminates in the thoracic (or right lymphatic) duct, or some- times separately in one of the large veins. The lymphatics of the scalp descend partly over the occiput and behind the ear to the suboccipital and mastoid glands, and partly in front of the ear to the parotid lymphatic glands. From the forehead other vessels pass downwards and join the lymphatics of the face. The superficial lymphatics of the face are directed for the most part obliquely downwards in the course of the facial vein, and enter the submaxillary glands, but those springing from the outer parts of the eye- lids and cheek pass backwards to the parotid glands. The deep lymphatics of the face, including those of the orbit, nasal cavity, roof of the mouth, and interior of the cheek, terminate in the internal maxillary glands. The lymphatics of the cranial cavity take their origin in net- works contained in the pia mater on the surface of the brain and in the choroid plexuses of the ventricles. At the base of the brain they are collected into larger vessels which descend along the internal carotid and vertebral arteries and the internal jugular vein to the deep cervical glands. The lymphatics springing from the choroid plexuses of the lateral and third ventricles run backwards and unite into a considerable trunk which accompanies the veins of Galen between the layers of the velum interpositum. The lymphatics of the tongue are mainly directed backwards in company with the ranine vein, and traverse two or three small Ungual glands, lying on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, on their way to join the superior deep cervical glands. From the fore part of the tongue, also, one or two vessels pass downwards together with the lymphatics of the floor of the mouth and, after perforating the mylo-hyoid muscle, enter the snbmaxillary glands.