122 BOXES OF THE LOWER LIMB. instances, is a smaller surface articulating with the navicular, while the remainder is rough for ligaments. The external border presents a smooth vertical groove, in which the tendon of the peroneus longus lies ; and the inferior surface is traversed obliquely near its anterior margin by a continuation of the same groove ; behind this there is a thick ridge, which, with the rest of the inferior surface, gives attachment to the calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. Tjic superior surface, looking outwards and upwards, is on the whole even, but gather rough. THE METATARSUS. The five metatarsal bones are distinguished by numbers, according to their position from within outwards. They resemble the metacarpal bones of the hand in being long bones, slightly convex from end to end on the dorsal aspect, in having irregular shaped bases, three-sided shafts, and rounded heads which articulate with the phalanges. They also agree with the metacarpal bones in the number of bones with which each articulates. The first metatarsal lone is the shortest, but is much thicker and more massive than the others. On its base is a large kidney-shaped surface, slightly concave, for articulation with the internal cuneiform bone, and occasionally there occurs a small facet on the outer side for the second metatarsal bone. Of the three surfaces of the shaft, the superior, which looks also inwards, is oblong and convex, the inferior is concave, and the external, the largest, is triangular and flattened, and is marked at its postero-inferior angle by a rounded impression where the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle is inserted. The head is large, and has on its under surface a median ridge, separating two grooves in which the sesamoid bones glide. The remaining four bones are distinguished from the metacarpal bones by being more slender and compressed from side to side, corresponding to the narrower form of the foot compared with that of the hand. The second is the longest; the others diminish gradually to the fifth. Their shafts present in the greater part of their extent a prominent border looking upwards, which in the middle three appears on the back of the foot between the dorsal interosseous muscles on each side. Their heads are elongated from above down, and terminate below in two small pro- jections ; on each side is a tubercle and depression for the attachment of the lateral ligament. The bases differ in the several bones, and thus furnish distinctive characters between them. The second has a triangular base, which articulates with the middle cuneiform bone ; on the inner side is a small facet for the internal cuneiform ; and on the outer side are usually two small surfaces, an upper and a lower, each again subdivided into two, thus making four facets, of which the two posterior articulate with the external cuneiform, and the two anterior with the next metatarsal bone. The third has also a triangular base articulating with the external cuneiform bone ; on the inner side are usually two facets for the second, and on the outer side a single larger facet for the fourth metatarsal bone. The base of the fourth is oblong or oval, and articulates with the cuboid ; on the inner side is generally a double facet for the third metatarsal and the external cuneiform bones, but the arti- culation with the latter is sometimes absent ; and on the outer side is a single surface for the fifth metatarsal bone, with a deep groove below