right auricle ; 6, the oblique vein, proceeding VEINS OF THE HEART. 4S9 branch of the same artery, in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, and, having gained the posterior surface of the heart, terminates in the left end of the coronary sinus. In the first part of its course it receives branches from the interventricular septum and from the anterior wall of both ventricles ; and as it passes backwards it is joined by de- scending branches from the left auricle, and by ascending branches from the ventricle, one of which, lying along the left margin of the heart, is Fig. 287.—The heart, from behind, to SHOW TIIE CARDIAC VEINS. (A. T.) £ a, placed on the right auricle, points to the Eustachian valve seen within the opening of the inferior vena cava ; b, left auricle ; c, right ventricle ; d, left ventricle; e, superior vena cava ; /, arch of the aorta; 1, coronary sinus ; 2, great coronary vein, turning round the heart in the auriculo-ventricular groove ; 3, posterior cardiac veins ; 4, middle cardiac vein ; the small coronary vein is seen joining the right end of the coronary sinus ; 5, one of the anterior cardiac veins passing directly into the downwards over the left auricle to join the coronary sinus. of considerable size. A valve, gene- rally of two segments, is placed over the opening of the vein in the coro- nary sinus. The posterior cardiac veins are three or four in number, and ascend on the posterior surface of the left ventricle to open into the coronary sinus along its lower border. Sometimes one of these veins is much larger than the others. The middle cardiac vein, of considerable size, commences at the apex of the heart, where it communicates with the radicles of the great coronary vein, and passes upwards in the posterior interventricular groove to join the right extremity of the coronary sinus. It receives branches from the interventricular septum, and from the posterior wall of both ventricles, but more particularly the right. The right or small coronary vein collects blood from the hinder parts of the right auricular and ventricular walls, and passes transversely in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle to open into the right end of the coronary sinus. This small vein is often represented by two or three separate branches, and it is occasionally absent. The coronary sinus is about an inch in length, and is placed at the back of the heart, in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, where it is covered by the muscular fibres of the auricle. At its termina- tion it opens into the right auricle, immediately in front of the inferior vena cava, and its orifice is covered by the Thebesian valve. The sinus is joined by the principal veins of the heart in the manner described above, and also at its left extremity by a small straight vein (oblique vein of Marshall) which runs downwards and inwards over the back of the left auricle. All the veins joining the sinus, except the small oblique vein which is often imperforate, are provided with more or less complete valves at their terminations. Fig. 287.