MUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. 2S1 and nose and tlie depressor alee nasi act on the upper lip and the wing- of the nose together—the one raising, the other depressing them. "When the cheeks are distended with air, and the aperture of the lips narrowed, it is by the action of the buccinator that the forced expulsion of the air is regulated. The buccinator also flattens the cheek and keeps the food between the teeth during mastication. The levator menti draws upwards the integument of the chin and protrudes the lower lip, as in pouting. The muscles attached to the angles of the mouth are, along with others of the face, intimately connected with the expression of the passions : those which pass downwards not only raise the upper lip, but also push upwards the cheek, and thus elevate the margin of the lower eyelid, as in mirth ; and those which ascend to the angle of the mouth depress that part, as in grief. (On the action of the facial muscles may be consulted, more especially, Sir Charles Bell, “ Anatomy and Philosophy of Expression ; ” Duchenne, “ Mecanisme de la Physionomie Humaine,” Paris, 1862 ; and C. Darwin, “ Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals.”) MUSCLES O F THE ORBIT. In this group will he described seven muscles, namely, the elevator of the upper eyelid before referred to, and six muscles of the eyeball, viz., the four straight and the two oblique muscles. Of these muscles, the inferior oblique alone is confined to the fore part of the orbit; all the others take their origin at its back part, and pass forwards to their insertion. The levator palpebraa superioris is a slender muscle which arises, pointed and tendinous, above and in front of the margin of the optic foramen, and, passing forwards over the eyeball, ends in a membranous expansion which is inserted into the fibrous tarsus of the upper eyelid. Relations.—Between this muscle and the roof'of the orbit are situated the fourth and frontal nerves and the supraorbital vessels, and beneath it are the superior rectus and the globe of the eye. On entering the lid, it is placed behind the palpebral ligament, and its deep surface rests on the conjunctiva. The four straight muscles of the eye have a continuous tendinous origin at the bottom of the orbit, in the form of an oval ring which, commencing above, passes down on the inner side to the lower margin of the optic foramen, then stretches transversely across the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure to. be attached to its lower border, where a prominent bony point is generally developed, and finally is completed by again crossing the sphenoidal fissure, this time about the middle and vertically, to gain the upper edge of the optic foramen. The superior rectus springs from the part of this ring above or in front of the optic foramen, and beneath the levator palpebrte : the internal rectus arises on the inner side of and below the optic foramen : the inferior rectus springs mainly from a fibrous band occupying the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure ; and the external rectus differs from the others in having two heads of origin, the lower and larger of which arises from the above-mentioned fibrous band and the prominent spine on the lower border of the sphenoidal fissure, being joined with the inferior rectus, while the upper is attached with the superior rectus between the sphenoidal fissure and the optic foramen ; between the two bony origins fibres spring also from a tendinous arch over the fissure. The four recti thus attached posteriorly, pass forwards, one above, one below, and one on each side of the eyeball, becoming flattened as they lie in contact with it, and are inserted by short membranous and slightly expanded