121 THE TARSUS. taculum tali, and like that process, is grooved by the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The navicular or scaphoid bone is placed at the inner side of the foot between the astragalus and cuneiform bones. It is elongated trans- versely, and compressed from before backwards. It presents posteriorly an articular concavity for the head of the astragalus, and anteriorly a convex surface divided by two lines converging below into three facets which articulate respectively with the three cuneiform bones. Its upper surface is convex from side to side, the lower is narrower and very un- even. On the outer end is in some instances a small articular surface for the cuboid bone : the inner end forms the prominent tubercle, directed downwards, and giving insertion to the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle. The cuneiform or wedge-shaped bones are known as first, second, and third, from within outwards, or internal, middle and external. They are placed between the navicular bone and the three inner metatarsal bones, and present anteriorly and posteriorly smooth surfaces for articu- lation with those bones. The internal cuneiform bone is the largest, the middle is the smallest. The proximal ends of the three bones are in the same transverse line ; but at their distal ends the internal and external project forwards beyond the middle one, and thus form a deep recess into which the base of the second metatarsal bone is received. The internal cuneiform bone has its sharp border directed upwards, and the thick rounded base of the wedge projects downwards on the inner border of the foot. The anterior articular surface, for the first metatarsal bone, is much larger than the posterior, is kidney-shaped and convex. The inner surface is free, and presents at its lower and fore part a smooth rounded mark for the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle : on the outer side, along the posterior and superior borders is an L-shaped surface, which articulates with the middle cuneiform, and at its anterior extremity with the second metatarsal bone. The middle cuneiform bone has its base directed upwards, and the sharp edge downwards towards the sole. The posterior end is somewhat broader than the anterior. On the inner side is an L-shaped articular surface, corresponding to that on the internal cuneiform bone; and on the outer side is a smaller facet, at the posterior part, for the external cuneiform bone. The external cuneiform bone is also situated with its base upwards. At its anterior end is a triangular articular surface for the third meta- tarsal bone, and continuous with this are two small facets, one on the fore part of each lateral surface, for the second and fourth metatarsal bones. On the internal surface, at the posterior part, is an articular facet for the middle cuneiform bone, and on the outer surface a much larger one for the cuboid bone. The cuboid bone is situated on the outer side of the foot, between the calcaneum and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. It deviates from the cuboid form and becomes rather pyramidal, by the sloping of four of its surfaces towards the smaller external border. The posterior surface articulates with the os calcis : the anterior surface is divided into an in- ternal quadrilateral and an external triangular facet, articulating with the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. On the internal aspect, in the middle, and reaching its superior border, is a smooth surface, which articulates with the external cuneiform bone, and behind this, in some