339 EXTERNAL SPHINCTER MUSCLE. Fig. 222. Fig. 222.—Superficial muscles of closely united by dense connective tissue that the prostatic sheath can only be dissected off the gland with difficulty. Behind and above the prostate, the prolongation of the upper layer is attached to the base of the bladder immediately outside the line of the vesiculte seminales, which are thus excluded, together with the intervening portion of the base of the bladder, from the proper pelvic cavity; while the inferior layer, con- tinuous with the posterior part of the prostatic sheath, extends across between the bladder and rectum, on the one hand binding the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia to the base of the bladder, on the other, forming the front part of the sheath of the rectum. The hinder part of the fascia is similarly attached to the rectum, and sends a pro- longation downwards on the lower part of the gut, which becomes gradually thinner and is lost a short distance from the anus. In the female the vagina receives an investment from the recto-vesical fascia, corresponding to the prostatic sheath of the male. In other respects the arrangement of the pelvic fascia is substantially the same in the two sexes. Muscles.—-The muscles of the perineum differ somewhat in the two sexes, and must therefore be separately described in each. In both sexes they may be divided into two groups, according as they are more immediately connected with the lower orifice of the alimentary canal or with the genito-urinary outlet. In both groups superficial and deep muscles are to be distinguished. A.—In the male.—a. ANAL muscles.—The internal or circular sphincter is a thick ring of unstriped muscle continuous with the cir- cular fibres of the rectum, and will be referred to along with the anatomy of that organ. The superficial or external sphincter muscle (sphincter ani ex- THE PERINEUM IN THE MALE (modified from Bourgery). (A.T.) i 4 a, spine of the pubis; b, coccyx ; c, placed on the tuberosity of the ischium, points by a line to the great sacro-sciatic ligament ; x , anus ; 1, placed on the corpus spongiosum urethrae in front of the bulbo-caver- nosi muscles ; 2, central point of the perineum ; 3, ischio-cavemosus; 4, transversus perinei ; 5, levator ani ; from 2 to b, external sphincter of the anus ; surrounding x , is the internal sphincter ; 6, coecygeus ; 7, adductor longus ; 8, gracilis ; 9, adductor magnus ; 10, semitendinosus and biceps; 11, on the left side, the gluteus maximus entire ; 11', the same cut on the right side, so as to expose a part of the coccygeus muscle. ternus) is a layer of fibres nearly an inch in depth on each side, placed immediately beneath the skin surrounding the margin of the anus. It is elliptical in form, and is attached posteriorly by a small tendon to the tip and back of the coccyx, usually receiving also some fibres from the overlying integument. Passing forwards it divides into two parts