ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 114 arteries), to the ureter, to the lumbar lymphatic glands, and several twigs which ramify in the connective tissue and fat around the kidney. Varieties—The renal artery may he replaced by two, three, four, or even five branches; and great differences as to the origin of these vessels are found to exist even on opposite sides of the same body. As they usually arise in suc- cession from the aorta itself, it would seem as if the deviation were merely an increased degree of that condition in which the renal artery divides into branches sooner than usual after its origin. In some cases a renal artery has been seen to proceed from the aorta at its bifurcation, from the middle sacral artery, from the inferior mesenteric, from the common iliac, and in one case, described by Eustachius, from the internal iliac. Portal found in one instance the light and left renal arteries arising by a common trunk from the fore part of the aorta. The branches of the renal artery, instead of entering at the hilus, sometimes reach and penetrate the gland near its upper end, or on its anterior surface. The l ight renal artery has been seen to cross the vena cava in front instead of behind. Supernumerary branches are also frequently found. The most common are, the diaphragmatic arising in common with the inferior suprarenal, a hepatic branch from the right renal, branches to the small and large intestines, the middle suprarenal, the spermatic, and one or more lumbar arteries. Spermatic and ovarian arteries (v).—The spermatic arteries of the male, two small and very long vessels, arise close together from the fore part of the aorta a little below the renal arteries. Each artery is directed downwards and somewhat outwards, resting on the psoas muscle, that of the right side passing also in front of the inferior vena cava ; it crosses obliquely the ureter and the lower part of the external iliac artery, and reaches the internal abdominal ring. There it comes into contact with the vas deferens, and passes with the other constituents of the spermatic cord along the inguinal canal, forming anastomoses with the cremasteric branch of the epigastric artery. Issuing by the external abdominal ring, it descends to the scrotum, where it becomes tortuous, and, approaching the back part of the testis, divides into branches which pierce the fibrous capsule of that body. One or two branches ramify on the epi- didymis and anastomose with the artery of the vas deferens. In the female, the ovarian arteries, corresponding to the spermatic arteries in the male, are shorter than these vessels, and do not pass out of the abdominal cavity. The origin, direction, and connections of the artery in the first part of its course are the same as in the male ; but at the margin of the pelvis it inclines inwards, and, running tortuously be- tween the layers of the broad ligament of the uterus, is guided to the attached margin of the ovary, which it supplies with branches. One small offset extends along the round ligament into the inguinal canal, another along the Fallopian tube, and a third, of considerable size, running inwards towards the uterus, joins with the uterine artery. During pregnancy the ovarian artery becomes considerably enlarged. In early fcetal life the spermatic and ovarian arteries are short, as the testes and the ovaries are at first placed close to the kidneys, but the arteries become lengthened as these organs descend to their ultimate positions. Varieties.—The spermatic artery is frequently derived from the renal, occasion- ally from the suprarenal, on one side. The right and left arteries occasionally arise by a common trunk. Two spermatic arteries are not unfrequently met with on one side ; both of these usually arise from the aorta, though sometimes one is a branch of the renal artery. A case has occurred of three arteries on one side,—two from the aorta and the third from the renal (R. Quain, pi. 57, fig. 5.)