OTIC GANGLION 569 maxillary nerve, covering, and not unfreqnently surrounding, the origin of the internal pterygoid branch. Its inner surface is close to the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube and the tensor palati muscle ; behind it is the middle meningeal artery. Roots.-—1The ganglion receives, through its connection with the nerve to the internal pterygoid, fibres from the inferior maxillary nerve, and these may be regarded as constituting its motor and sensory roots (short root of Arnold) ; the sympathetic root is a filament (or two) passing forwards from the plexus on the middle meningeal artery. The gang- lion is also joined posteriorly by the small superficial petrosal nerve {long root, Arnold), which connects it with, and probably conveys to it fibres from, the facial and glosso-pharyngeal nerves (p. 577). Branches.—{a) Two or more filaments pass backwards to the roots Fig. 323.—Otio gang- lion AND ITS CONNEC- TIONS FROM THE INNER. side (from Sappey, after Arnold). The temporal bone is divided so as to show the inner surface of the mem- brana tympani and the car.al of the facial nerve ; the foramen ovale is opened on the inner side : 1, small root of the fifth nerve, passing down on the inner side of the Gasserian gang- lion to unite with the in- ferior maxillary division ; 2, inferior dental nerve 3, mylo-hyoid branch, seen also farther down {merg- ing in front of the internal pterygoid muscle ; 4, lingual; 5, chorda tym- pani ; 6, facial nerve in its canal ; 7, auriculo- temporal nerve, enclosing in its loop of origin the middle meningeal artery ; 8, otic gang- lion ; 9, small superficial petrosal nerve ; 10, branch to the tensor tympani muscle ; if, twig connecting the ganglion with the auriculo-temporal nerve; 12, twig to the gang- lion from the sympathetic on the meningeal artery ; 13, nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle ; 14, branch to the tensor palati muscle. of the auriculo-temporal nerve, in which their fibres appear, from the result of physiological experiments on animals, to be conducted to the parotid gland. (&) A communicating twig descends to the chorda tympani. (c and d) Two small nerves are distributed to muscles—one to the tensor tympani, the other to the tensor palati, but the greater number of the fibres of these branches can be followed backwards to the inferior maxillary nerve, where they arise in common with the nerve to the internal pterygoid. Summary.—Cutaneous filaments of the inferior maxillary nerve ramify on the side of the head, and the external ear, in the external auditory canal, the lower lip, and the lower part of the face ; sensory branches are supplied by it to the greater part of the tongue ; and