SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE KNEE. 693 tuberosity is comparatively little developed. The outer tuberosity of the tibia, on the other hand, forms a marked prominence at the outer and fore part of the knee, about an inch below the joint ; and behind this, at a slightly lower level, the head of the fibula is distinctly felt at the outer and back part of the limb, where it generally corresponds to a depression, when the joint is extended, between the tendon of the biceps above and the peroneus longus muscle below. Anteriorly, the patella is subcutaneous, and its lateral margins are distinctly seen. When the extensor muscles are relaxed, the patella can be easily moved from side to side ; but if these muscles are contracted, the patella is drawn up- wards and pressed firmly against the end of the femur, and the ligamen- tum patellae can then be followed down to the tubercle of the tibia : on each side of the ligament is a soft eminence produced by the infrapatellar mass of fat. When the knee is bent, the patella sinks into the hollow between the tibia and the femur, and the articular surface of the latter bone is in great part exposed ; the trochlear surface can then be distinctly traced, although covered by the tendon of the extensor muscle. There are generally two bursas, a superficial one and a deep one, over the patella, and there is frequently another over the tubercle of the tibia (p. 231). At the back of the knee is the ham, which is marked by a deep hollow when the joint is flexed, but by a slight elevation when it is extended. On each side are the tendinous hamstrings ; internally the slender semi- teudinosus and the stronger semimembranosus are to be recognized, as well as the gracilis a little farther forwards; externally is the thick tendon of the biceps leading down to the head of the fibula. Imme- diately in front of the biceps tendon, when the joint is a little bent, the upper part of the external lateral ligament is to be detected ; and be- tween this and the outer margin of the patella, the lower end of the ilio-tibial band appears as a strong cord beneath the skin, running down on the outer side of the knee to tbe prominent external tuberosity of the tibia ; while on the inner side, the sartorius tendon, with the subjacent ones of the gracilis and semitendinosus, forms a slight elevation as it curves forwards below the inner tuberosity, to be inserted close to the tubercle of the tibia. The external saphenous vein enters the lower part of the ham in the middle line of the limb, and perforates the fascia to join the popliteal vein ; but it is not usually visible on the surface. The internal saphenous vein is generally seen on the inner side of the knee, and the nerve of the same name meets it behind the internal tuberosity. The popliteal vessels enter the ham somewhat internal to the middle line above, and are then continued downwards over the centre of the back of the knee ; the vein is more superficial than the artery, but both are very deeply placed. The upper articular vessels run transversely in- wards and outwards immediately above the condyles of the femur ; and the lower articular vessels are respectively just below the inner tuberosity of the tibia, and above the head of the fibula. The deep part of the anastomotic artery descends to the knee along the front of the adductor magnus tendon. The internal popliteal nerve, continuing the direction of the great sciatic, and descending in the median line, is superficial to the vessels. The external popliteal nerve is at first under cover of the fleshy belly of the biceps, and then lies on the outer side of the ham, close behind the ten-