FASCIA OF THE LEG. 249 anterior and inner borders of the tibia, the head of the fibula, and the inner and outer malleoli. It is thicker on the front of the leg than behind, especially at the upper part, where it is very dense and gives origin to the subjacent muscles. Posteriorly it is continuous with th? fascia lata on the back of the thigh, and near the knee it receives accessions from the tendons of the biceps externally, and the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus internally. Over the popliteal space it consists of strong transverse fibres, which bind together the muscles of the outer and inner sides, and it is perforated at the lower part of the space by the external saphenous vein ; lower down it becomes much thinner over the gastrocnemius muscle. From the deep surface of the fascia intermuscular septa are sent inwards, and give origin to the adjacent muscles : on the outer side two of these pass inwards to be attached to the anterior and external borders of the fibula, and thus separate the peroneal muscles from those of the front and back of the leg respectively ; and in front there is one septum, confined to the upper third of the leg, between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum muscles. Beneath the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles on the back of the leg, a deep layer of fascia is stretched from side to side, binding down the deeper muscles firmly in the hollow between the tibia and fibula. Where it is covered by the soleus and gastrocnemius, this fascia is weak, but it becomes stronger as it escapes from under cover of those muscles and approaches the malleoli. Below the ankle the deep fascia of the leg becomes continuous with that of the foot. In front, and on the sides of that joint, it is strengthened by broad bands of fibres, which are called annular liga- ments, and serve to confine the tendons in their positions. The anterior annular ligament includes two structures, one placed at the lower part of the leg, the other opposite the bend of the ankle. The upper land, of considerable breadth, stretches transversely from the anterior border of the fibula to the corresponding part of the tibia, and binds down the vertical portion of the extensor tendons as they de- scend to the foot: the tendon of the tibialis anticus alone has a synovial sheath under this part of the ligament. The lower land presents superficially the appearance of the letter placed thus upon its side, being single in its outer half, and divided into two branches internally. The outer portion springs from the fore part of the os calcis, immediately in front of the interosseous ligament, and forms a strong loop which completely surrounds the peroneus tertius and extensor longus digitorum muscles. From the extremity of the loop the fibres are continued into the two branches, which are, however, less regular in their arrangement: the strongest and most constant band , passes to the internal malleolus, crossing over the extensor hallucis, and on the deep surface of the tibialis anticus tendon, only a few fibres passing superficially to the latter ; while the lower band, after crossing both those tendons, is inserted on the inner side of the foot into the fascia of the sole. The tendons are surrounded by three synovial sheaths under this part of the ligament: one is common to the peroneus tertius and extensor longus digitorum ; the second invests the extensor proprius hallucis ; and the third, on the tibialis anticus, is continuous with that under the upper band of the ligament. The internal annular ligament crosses the space between the