300 MUSCLES OF TI1E HEAD AND NECK. inferior also by the external laryngeal nerve. The stylo-pharyngeus receives a branch from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The soft palate (velum pendulum palati) is a moveable curtain, con- tinued backwards from the hard palate. It presents posteriorly a free pendulous margin, prolonged in the middle into a conical piocess, the uvula, and at each side into a prominent curved fold, t\\e posterior pillar_ of the fauces, which runs downwards and backwards on the side wall of the pharynx, while from the base of the uvula and the under surface of the soft palate another fold, the anterior pillar of the fauces, descends to the tongue ; between the two on each side is lodged the tonsil. Ihe constricted passage between the anterior pillars, leading from the mouth to the pharynx, is called the isthmus of the fauces. The soft palate is acted on by five pairs of elongated muscles, two superior, one intermediate, and two inferior. The palatoglossus muscle, or constrictor istlimi faucium, occupies the anterior pillar of the fauces. Superiorly it is placed below all the other muscles of the palate, and its fibres are continuous with those of its fellow of the opposite side ; interiorly it enters the side of the tongue, where it becomes continuous with the transverse fibres of that organ (Henle). Behind and continuous with the fibres of the palato-glossus are some thin bundles of muscular fibres which ascend from the side of the tongue and are lost over the outer surface of the tonsil. They were named amygdalo-glosms by Broca. MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE. Fig. 205.—Diagrammatic view of the MUSCLES OF THE SOFT 1‘ALATE, &C., FROM BEHIND. (A. T.) ^ The posterior wall of the pharynx has been divided by a vertical incision in the middle line, and the cut edges drawn to tiie side so as to expose the nasal, buccal, and laryngeal openings ; a, is above the cut surface of the basilar process, and below that are the posterior nares ; b, cartilage of the right Eustachian tube ; c, back of the ramus of the lower jaw ; d, posterior border of the thyroid cartil- age ; e, upper part of the cricoid cartil- age ; /, base of the tongue above the epiglottis ; g, lower end of the pharynx leading into the gullet; 1, superior con- strictor of the pharynx seen from within; 2, palato-pharyngeus ; 2', the lower part of the same muscle, on the right side ; 3, placed on the internal pterygoid mus- cle, points to the levator palati ; 4, the right circumflexus palati muscle winding round the hamular process; 5, the azygos uvulie; above e, the arytenoid, and below it on each side the posterior crico- arytenoid muscle.