BONES OF TEE HEAD. 76 the temporal bone ; the first including- the labyrinth and internal auditory- meatus. Squamosals, or squamo-zyg-omatie (m); The squamous part of the temporal bone with the zygoma, including the articular surface for the lower jaw. Tympanies (on) ; The tympanic plate, forming the auditory and vaginal pro- cesses. 3. BONES COMPLETING- THE FACE AND ENCLOSING THE NOSE, MOUTH, AND PHARYNX. Ethmoturbinals; The lateral masses with the upper and lower turbinate bones of the ethmoid. Lachrymals (on) ; The lachrymal bones. Nasals (m) ; The nasal bones. Maxilloturbinals; The inferior turbinate bones. Premaxillary, or intermaxillary (on) ; The incisor part of the superior maxil- lary bones. Pterygoids (on) ; The internal pterygoid plates. Palatals (on) ; The palate bones. Maxillae (m); The superior maxillary bones, excepting the incisor part. Malars, or jugals (on) ; The malar bones. Malleus, Incus, and Stapes; The auditory ossicles or malleus, incus, and stapes. Mandible (on) ; The inferior maxilla or lower jaw. Stylohyals with Tympanohyals; The styloid processes of the temporal bones. Epihyals; The stylo-hyoid ligaments. Ceratohyals; The small cornua of the hyoid bone. Basihyal; The body of the hyoid bone. Thyrohyals; The great cornua of the hyoid bone. Branchial Arches; These follow the preceding, but are only temporary foetal structures in man and all vertebrate animals, except amphibia and fishes. The general correspondence between the bones of the head in man and animals, implied in the names given to them in the foregoing table, is so well ascertained, and, in most instances, so obvious, that it is unnecessary to say more than that it is very generally acknowledged by comparative anatomists, and that it is chiefly on some points connected with the earliest condition, and the homological comparison of a few of the bones, that differences of opinion continue to exist. Besides the general evidence in favour of the homologies of these bones which has been drawn from the study of their form, position and connections, strong confirmation of these views is also obtained from their relations to other organs. Among these, from the remarkable constancy of their relations, the passage of the nerves out of the cranium is one of the most important. Thus, the netves belonging to the principal organs of the senses pass into their sense capsules as follows, viz. : the olfactory through the cribriform plate developed in connection with the ethmoturbinal; the optic through the inner part of the orbitosphenoid ; the auditory directly into the periotic. Farther, the motor nerves of the eyeball and its muscles, with the ophthalmic division of the trifacial, pass between the orbitosphenoid and alisphenoid; the second and third divisions of the trifacial through the inner part of the alisphenoid ; the facial by its descending division through the internal meatus, the so-called aqueduct of Fallopius, and the stylo-mastoid foramen, and by the Vidian nerve, through the pterygoid canal; the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves between the petrosal and exoccipital; and the hypoglossal nerve through the condylar fora- men of the exoccipital. The internal carotid artery, it may be farther stated, enters the cranium by a canal separated from the foramen lacerum or space between the petrous, basioccipital, and basisphenoid ; and the jugular vein issues between the petrous and exoccipital. A general review of the relations of the bones of the head leads to the conclu-