CUTANEOUS AND MUSCULAR DISTRIBUTION. 017 supplying about three lingers and a half or less, and the ulnar one and a half or more. On the front of the hand, the median nerve supplies three fingers and a half, and the ulnar one and a half. In the palm is a branch of the median, and also a branch of the ulnar, given off above the wrist. On the ball of the thumb are branches of the musculo-cutaneous, median, and radial nerves. 4. In the lower limb.—The buttoch is supplied from above by the cutaneous branches of the posterior divisions of the lumbar nerves, with the ilio-hypogastric and lateral branch of the last dorsal nerves ; internally by the posterior di visions of the sacral nerves ; externally by the posterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve proceeding from tiic front; and interiorly by the perforating cutaneous nerve and branches of the small sciatic nerve proceeding from below. The thigh is supplied externally by the external. cutaneous nerve from the lumbar plexus ; posteriorly, and in the upper half of its inner aspect, by the small sciatic ; anteriorly, and in the lower half of the inner aspect, by the middle and internal cutaneous of the anterior crural, the latter being frequently assisted by the obturator nerve. The leg is supplied posteriorly by the small sciatic and short saphenous nerves ; internally by the long saphenous and branches of the internal cutaneous of the thigh (or obturator); and outside and in front by cuta- neous branches of the external popliteal nerve and by its musculo-cuta- neous branch. On the dorsum of the foot are the branches of the musculo-cutaneous, supplying all the toes with the exception of the adjacent sides of the first and second, which are supplied by the anterior tibial, and the outer side of the little toe, which, with the outer margin of the foot, is supplied by the short saphenous nerve. The long saphenous is the cutaneous nerve of the inner side of the foot. The sole of the foot is supplied by the plantar nerves. The internal plantar nerve gives branches to three toes and a half; the external to the remaining one toe and a half. SYNOPSIS OF THE MUSCULAR DISTRIBUTION OF THE CEREBRO- SPINAL NERVES. 1. To muscles of the head and fore part of the neck.—The muscles of the orbit are mostly supplied by the third cranial nerve—the superior division of that nerve being distributed to the levator palpebrte and the superior rectus muscles ; and the inferior division to the inferior and internal recti and the inferior oblique. The superior oblique muscle is supplied by the fourth nerve, the external rectus by the sixth ; while the tensor tarsi has no special nerve apart from those of the orbi- cularis palpebrarum, which are derived from the facial. The superficial muscles of the face and scalp, which are associated in their action as a group of muscles of expression, together with the buccinator muscle, are supplied by the seventh cranial nerve; the retrahens auriculam and occipitalis muscles being supplied by its posterior auricular branch. The deep muscles of the face employed in mastication, viz., the temporal, masseter, and two pterygoid muscles, are supplied by the inferior max- illary division of the fifth cranial nerve.