MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. 290 liyoid ridge of the lower jaw. A slip from the lateral thyro-hyoid ligament (syndesmo-pharyngeus, Douglas) is of frequent occurrence. The superior constrictor arises by fibres attached in series from below upwards, to the side of the tongue, to the mucous membrane of the mouth, to the extremity of the mylohyoid ridge of the jaw, to the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and to the hamular process and lower third or less of the posterior border of the internal pterygoid plate. The fibres curve backwards, and are mostly blended with those of the corre- sponding muscle along the middle line, a few ending posteriorly in the aponeurosis which fixes the pharynx to the base of the skull. The upper margin curves round the levator palati and the Eustachian tube; and the space intervening between this concave margin of the constrictor and the base of the skull is closed by fibrous membrane. Relations.—In contact with the outer surface of this muscle are the internal carotid artery, the vagus and sympathetic nerves, the middle constrictor, which overlaps a considerable portion, and the stylo-pharyngeus, which descends to the pharynx between the two constrictors. It conceals the palato-pharyngeus and the tonsil, and is lined by mucous membrane. It is united to the buccinator muscle anteriorly by the pterygo-maxillary ligament. The constrictor muscles are invested on their outer surface by a layer of dense connective tissue, which is but loosely attached to the adjacent prevertebral fascia. This layer is stronger above thau below, and is prolonged forwards over the lateral part of the superior constrictor to the pterygo-maxillary ligament, where it becomes continuous with the membrane covering the buccinator muscle, whence the whole structure is named the lucco-pharyngeal fascia. The stylo-pharyngeus, larger and longer than the other styloid muscles, arises from the inner surface of the styloid process near the root, and proceeding downwards and inwards to the side of the pharynx, passes under cover of the middle constrictor muscle, where it gradually expands, and being joined by the palato-pharyngeus, ends on the superior and posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage, and in the lateral wall of the pharynx. Relations.—The external surface of this muscle is, in the upper part of its extent, in contact with the styloid process, and the external carotid artery; in the lower, with the middle and inferior constrictors of the pharynx. Internally it rests on the internal carotid artery and superior constrictor ; and lower down on the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve crosses over the muscle in turning forwards to the tongue. Varieties.—Splitting or doubling of the stylo-pharyngeus is often met with ; a division into three parts has also been observed. Supernumerary elevator muscles of the pharynx are not unfrequently present, arising from a neighbouring part of the base of the skull, and inserted variably into one or other of the constrictors, or passing between those muscles to the fibrous layer of the pharynx. Their most frequent origin is from the under surface of the petrous bone in front of the carotid canal or from the vaginal process of the temporal bone (pctro-pharyngeWs), but they also occur arising from the spine of the sphenoid (splieno-pharyngeus), from the hamular process (pterygo- pharyngeus externals'), or farther back, from the basilar process (ocoipito-pharyn- gens), or very rarely from the mastoid process (pharyvgo-mastoidcus). Belonging to the same group is the azygos pharyngis, a small median slip sometimes present, arising from the pharyngeal tubercle of the occipital bone, and descending to the raphe or the posterior wall of the pharynx. Nerves.—The constrictor muscles are supplied by the pharyngeal plexus, the