90 BOXES OF THE UPPER LIMB. this the ridge is continued into a smooth elevation which, descending on the front of the shaft to the inferior extremity, separates an external from an internal surface; while at the sides these are separated from the flat posterior surface by the supracondylar ridges, which descend, the external more prominent than the internal, to the condyle on each side. About the middle of the shaft externally, a broad Fig. 70. depression, the spiral groove, winds downwards and forwards, limited above by the deltoid impression and below by the external supracondylar ridge, and lodges the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda vessels. Fig. 70.—Right humerus from behind. (A. T.) J 1, 3, 8, & 10, the same as in Fig. 69 ; 15, is placed above the olecranon fossa. The inferior extremity is much enlarged laterally, flattened from before backwards, and is curved slightly forwards. Projecting on either side are the external and internal condyles (the epicondgle and epitrochlea of Chaussier), the internal of which is much more prominent than the external, and is slightly inclined backwards. The inferior articular surface is divided into two parts. The external part, articulating with the radius, consists of a rounded eminence directed forwards, called the capitellwn, and a groove internal to it; it does not extend to the posterior surface. The internal part, the trochlea, articulates with the ulna, and extends completely round from the anterior to the posterior surface of the bone ; it is grooved in the middle like the surface of a pulley, and is somewhat broader behind than in front; anteriorly, its margins are inclined downwards and inwards ; posteriorly, up- wards and outwards, so that, seen from behind, it occupies the middle part of the bone. Anteriorly, the internal margin of the trochlea is the more prominent, and forms a convexity parallel to the groove ; posteriorly, the external margin is slightly more prominent. Above the trochlea posteriorly is a large and deep pit, the olecranon fossa, which receives the olecranon process of the ulna in ex- tension of the forearm; and above it anteriorly, separated from the olecranon fossa only by a thin lamina of bone, is the much smaller coronoid fossa, which receives the coronoid process in flexion. Above the capitellum is a shallow depression, into which the head of the radius is pressed in complete flexion. The humerus, in its natural position, with the arm hanging by the side, has a slight inclination from above downwards and inwards, and is also in a condition of what may be termed strong internal rotation, i.e., the so-called anterior surface looks very much inwards, and the internal condyle is directed more backwards than inwards. The bone is almost completely covered by muscles ; the head is thickly covered by the