2G1 MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. arrangement of the processes is identical with that of the corresponding part of the palmar fascia, fibres being sent to the digital sheaths, super- ficial transverse ligament and skin, as well as deep processes on each side of the flexor tendons to the transverse metatarsal ligament. The two intermuscular septa which are given off between the middle and lateral portions of the plantar fascia pass deeply into the sole of the foot ; they separate the flexor brevis digitorum from the abductor hallucis on the inner side, and from the abductor minimi digiti on the outer side, and give partial origin to each of these muscles. The superficial transverse ligament of the toes is a thin band of fibres contained in the folds of skin limiting the interdigital clefts, and connected to the subjacent sheaths of the tendons. Like the transverse Fig. 1S8. Fig. 188.—Superficial muscles and tendons on THE DORSUM OF THE FOOT AND LOWER PART OF the front of the leg (after Bourgery). £ a, tibia; l, fibula; c, navicular bone ; cl, in- ternal cuneiform bone ; 1, 1', tibialis anticus ; 2, extensor proprius hallucis ; 2', its expansion on the dorsum of the great toe; 3, extensor communis digitorum dividing into its four tendons for the toes ; 3', its expansion, and 3", final insertion (upon the second toe) ; 4, peroneus tertius ; 4', its ex- panded insertion on the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; 5, soleus ; 6, peroneus brevis; 7, extensor brevis digitorum ; T, 7", placed on the transverse band of aponeurosis, marks the first and fourth tendons of the extensor brevis muscle ; 8, 9, part of the anterior annular ligament; 10, 11, a transverse band of the dorsal fascia of the foot. metatarsal ligament, it differs from the corresponding structure in the hand in being attached to all five digits. Muscles.—On the dorsum of the foot, besides the tendons continued from the muscles of the front of the leg, one short muscle is present, viz., the extensor brevis digitorum. In the sole the muscles are much more numerous, and are described in four layers as they are met with in the course of a dissection. The extensor brevis digitorum pedis arises from the fore part of the upper and outer surfaces of the os calcis, in front of the groove for the peroneus brevis muscle, and from the lower band of the anterior annular ligament. It divides into four tapering slips, each of which terminates in a tendon ; the first or most internal of these is inserted separately into the dorsal surface of the first phalanx of the great toe at its tarsal extremity ; and the other three become severally united to the outer border of the tendons of the long extensor proceeding to the three next toes. Relations.—It crosses the dorsum of the foot somewhat obliquely, resting on the tarsus and metatarsus, and lying beneath the tendons of the peroneus tertius and long extensor of the toes. Its inner slip also crosses the dorsal artery of the foot and the anterior tibial nerve.