418 ARTERIES OP THE UPPER LIMB. Fig. 254. Fig. 254. —Deep anterior view of the ar- teries OF THE ARM, FOREARM, AND HAND (from Tiedemann). £ The biceps, the muscles rising from the inner condyle, the supinator longus, the lower part of the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus digitorum, the anterior annular ligament, and the muscles of the ball of the thumb have been removed : n, pronator quadratus muscle ; 1, lower part of the axillary artery continued into the brachial; 2, superior profunda ; 3, inferior profunda ; 4, anastomotic ; 5, upper part of the radial artery and radial recurrent; 5', lower part of the radial artery, giving off the superficial volar branch; 5", radial artery, emerging from between the heads of the abductor indicis muscle ; 6, 6, upper part of the ulnar artery with the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent branches ; 6', ulnar artery, approaching the wrist and descending into the superficial palmar arch which has been cut short ; 6", deep branch of the ulnar artery uniting with the deep palmar arch ; 7, (marked only on one) interosseous branches from the deep palmar arch joining the palmar digital arteries 8, 8, 8, which have been cut away from their origin from the superficial arch to near their division into the collateral digital arteries ; the ulnar collateral of the little finger is rising in this instance from the deep palmar arch ; 9, placed between the princeps pollicis and radialis indicis branches of the radial artery ; 10, lower part of the anterior interosseous artery passing behind the pronator quadratus muscle ; 11, anas- tomosis of the anterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries with twigs from the anterior interosseous artery and recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch. this muscle along the ulnar nerve, supplies branches to the muscles, to the elbow-joint, and to the nerve itself. This branch communicates with the inferior profunda, the anastomotic, and, over the olecranon, also with the posterior interosseous recurrent. 3. The interosseous or common interosseous artery (iv), the next and largest branch, is a short trunk which arises from the ulnar artery about an inch from its commencement, and inclines backwards to reach the upper border of the interosseous mem- brane, where it divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous artery descends upon the front of the inter- osseous membrane, accompanied by the interosseous branch of the median nerve and venae comites, and overlapped by the contiguous borders of the flexor