SERRATUS MAGNUS. 201 Actions of the muscles passing' between the Trunk and Upper Limb. Considered with reference to the movements of the limb upon the trunk, the upper part of the trapezius, the levator scapulae and the rhomboid muscles are elevators of the shoulder; the lower part of the trapezius, the pectoralis minor, and the subclavius are depressors; the serratus magnus as a whole carries forwards the scapula, and the rhomboidei draw it back ; the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major depress the humerus and carry it towards the middle line, behind or in front, according as the one or other muscle is in action. Fig. 160.—Lateral view op Fig. 160. THE TRUNK, SHOWING THE SERRATUS MAGNUS MUSCLE. (A. T.) i a, coracoid process of the scapula ; b, glenoid cavity ; c, lower angle ; I, VI, XII, the first, sixth, and twelfth ribs ; 1, upper portion of the serratus magnus attached to the first and second ribs ; 2, 2, second or middle por- tion attached to the second and third ribs ; 3, lower or fanshaped portion attached to the ribs from the fourth to the ninth ; 4, external intercostal muscle ; 5, costal origins of the transversalis abdominis. More particularly, the superior fibres of the tra- pezius elevate the clavicle ; the middle fibres acting on the acromion have also some elevating action, but tend rather to carry back the scapula towards the spine ; the inferior part of the muscle acting upon the spine of the scapula would of itself depress that bone while it carries it inwards towards the dorsal spines, but acting in concert with the upper two-thirds of the muscle, a rotation is produced in the scapula round a central point, in such a manner that while the whole bone, and more especially the acromion, is raised and carried towards the dorsal spines, the upper angle of the scapula is somewhat depressed and carried inwards, while the lower angle is carried outwards and elevated. The levator anguli scapula; and rhomboidei elevate the superior angle and base of the scapula, thus counteracting the rotating action of the trapezius. In this manner, when the trapezius, levator, and rhomboid muscles act together, the scapula is raised without rotation, and its base is carried at the same time in- wards, towards the dorsal spines. The subclavius depresses the clavicle, and may also act as a support to the sterno-clavicular articulation. The pectoralis minor draws the coracoid process downwards and forwards, and tends to throw the lower angle of the scapula backwards. The serratus magnus muscle, by withdrawing the base of the scapula from the spinal column, enables the arm when raised from the shoulder to be still farther outstretched, as in the movement termed extension in fencing. It comes powerfully into action in all movements of pushing ; its lower portion likewise combines with the trapezius in rotating the scapula. In forced inspiration, the scapula being fixed by the muscles which attach it to the trunk posteriorly and