188 THE MUSCLES IN GENERAL. fibres or fasciculi run in a muscle is very frequently not that of the axis of the muscle, nor do the muscular fasciculi in the great majority of in- stances extend from end to end in a muscle. On the contrary, the mus- cular fibres and fasciculi are much oftener comparatively short, and are attached within the length of the muscle to prolongations of the main tendons or to other tendinous bands which intersect its substance; and thus the muscular fibres rim into these tendinous parts with various degrees of obliquity to the axis of the muscle. The muscular flesh forms a large proportion of the weight of the whole body. This proportion has been carefully determined by Dr. G. v. Liebig (Archiv fiir Anat. u. Physiol. 1874), from whose tables the fol- lowing is calculated for a man of 150 lbs. weight: skeleton, 27 lbs.; muscles, 63 lbs.; viscera (with skin, fat, blood, &c.), 60 lbs. General Morphology-—It cannot be doubted that the disposition of the muscles, as a whole and in groups, originally bears a close relation to the plan of vertebrate organization in the skeleton. This is very perceptible in the earlier stages of fcetal development and in the lowest vertebrate animals. In fishes especially, and partly in amphibia, the muscles present a remarkable degree of vertebrate segmentation, the greater part of the muscles of the trunk being subdivided into zones, or myotomcs, by partitions or sclerotomes, partly bony and partly cartilaginous or membranous, which extend transversely through the walls of the trunk, and which correspond in number and position with the vertebral and costal segments. In the higher animals and in man, together with the greater specialization of muscles in connection with the development of limbs, great deviations from the primitive muscular type in the trunk have occurred, and it becomes extremely difficult to trace the morphological relations of the rest of the muscles in the axial part of the body. It is indeed only in the deeper muscles of the vertebral column and of the ribs that the vertebrate subdivision and relation remain in any degree apparent. In the more superficial muscles, and more especially in the muscles of the limbs, where the direction of the fibres is generally outwards from the trunk, portions of the myotomes run together so as to form muscles of greater or less length, in which all appearance of vertebrate division is effaced. In their more general relations also to the trunk of the body two sets of the muscles may be distinguished as epaxial and hypaxial (episkeletal and hyposkeletal of Huxley), according as they lie above or below the embryonic vertebral axis and the plane of its lateral extension. The hypaxial muscles, comparatively little developed in man, comprise chiefly the prevertebral muscles of the neck with the psoas and pyriformis. Of the epaxial muscles a dorso- lateral division consists mainly of the long and short erector muscles of the spine and head; while a ventro-lateral division consists both of such ventral longitudinal muscles as the genio-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and recti abdominis, and of the lateral, obliquely directed, stemo-mastoid, scalene, intercostal, and abdominal muscles. The muscles of the limbs are also primarily derived from this great ventro-lateral muscle. They may be distinguished as extrinsic when attached partly to the limbs and partly to the trunk, and as intrinsic when wholly attached to the bones of the limbs and their arches. To these morphological relations farther reference will hereafter be made under the several large divisions of the muscles. (See Humphry, “ Observations in Myology,” &c., 1872, and in various papers in the Journ. of Anat.; Huxley, “ Anat. of Verteb. Animals,” and Mivart, “ Lessons in Elementary Anatomy.” Homologies and Varieties.—It follows from what has been stated above, that homologous correspondence can be traced between the individual muscles and groups of muscles of man and those of animals. But as the form and attach- ments of the muscles are subject to very great variation in different animals, as well as to occasional varieties in the same species, the determination of the special homologies is attended in many cases with great difficulty, and is still very imperfect. Many varieties have also been observed in the human body, and it is interesting to notice that these varieties are found to reappear generally in the