19 THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE. ture, the convexity of which, in most cases, is directed towards the right side, and is probably connected with the greater use made of the right than of the left arm. Viewed in front, the bodies of the ver- tebrae are seen to become broader from the axis to the first dorsal, then slightly narrower to the fourth dorsal, and from that vertebra they gradually widen to the base of the sacrum. The width between the extremities of the trans- verse processes is considerable in the atlas; small in the axis, it becomes greater as far as the first dorsal vertebra, thence it is again gradually contracted as far as the last dorsal, and becomes suddenly much greater in the lumbar region. In a lateral view the antero-posterior diameter of the bodies increases in des- cending through the dorsal and lumbar legions. Viewed from behind the spines occupy the middle line. On the sides are the vertebral grooves, corresponding to the laminae, and bounded externally in the cervical and dorsal regions by the transverse processes, and in the lumbar by the mammillary processes. Along each groove is a series of spaces between the laminae, which, in the natural condition, are filled up by the yellow ligaments. The extent of these intervals is very trifling in the neck and in the greater part of the back; it increases in the lower third of the dorsal, and still more in the lumbar region. The interval between the occipital bone and the arch of the atlas is considerable, and so is that between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. The only part of the vertebral column that appears on the surface of the body is the row of spinous processes, and these Fig. 16.—The vertebral column viewed from the left side. (A. T.) £ The letters and numbers indicate the several vertebr®. The antero-posterior curvatures of the column are shown, together with the shape and size of the bodies and intervertebral spaces, the form and transitions of the transverse and spinous processes, and the differences in the costal articulating surfaces. Fig. 16. SI ,1