SUEGICAL ANATOMY OP THE AETEEIES OF THE LEG. 487 anterior peroneal artery, which forms the dorsal artery of the foot, the two vessels (anterior tibial and anterior peroneal) being either connected together or separate. A few cases are recorded in which the anterior tibial artery was altogether wanting, its place in the leg being supplied by perforating branches from the posterior tibial artery, and on the dorsum of the foot by the anterior peroneal artery. This artery is occasionally larger than usual, in that case compensating for a defective condition of the external plantar artery. The dorsal artery of the foot is not unfrequently found curving outwards below the ankle-joint, and returning to its usual position at the back of the first inter- osseous space. It has also been seen passing through the second space into the sole. The metatarsal artery varies greatly in its arrangement. It is sometimes given off higher than usual, and it occasionally arises in common with the tarsal artery. It may be smaller than usual or absent, the deficiency being supplied by the tarsal artery, which furnishes one or more of the outer dorsal interosseous arteries (fig. 286). Occasionally there are two metatarsal arteries. The dorsal interosseous arteries are sometimes derived mainly or solely from the plantar arch, by means of the posterior perforating branches. SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE ARTERIES OP THE LEG. The posterior tibial artery may be tied at any spot in the lower two-thirds of the leg. To reach the artery in the middle third, an incision from three to four inched in length is made through the skin and fascia, parallel to, and about half an inch behind, the internal border of the tibia. The inner head of the gastro- cnemius being drawn backwards, and the internal saphenous vein (if exposed) forwards, the fleshy fibres of the soleus are cut through until the deep aponeurosis of the latter muscle is reached. This is then divided for the whole length of the wound, and the deep layer of fascia, which is here thin, is exposed. On laying this open the artery is at once seen, being placed between the companion veins, and having the nerve to its outer side. In the lower third of the leg, the artery is readily tied by means of an incision two inches long, placed midway between the inner border of the tibia and the edge of the tendo Achillis, and carried through the integument and the two layers of fascia. The peroneal artery might, if necessary, be secured in the middle third of the leg. An incision, from three to four inches long, is made through the skin and fascia immediately behind the outer border of the fibula, and the soleus drawn backwards. The fibres of the flexor longus hallucis are then to be divided close to the fibula, until the membranous wall of the canal containing the vessel is exposed, and on laying this open the artery will be found resting against the bone. In order to apply a ligature to the anterior tibial artery, an incision is made along the front of the leg in the line of the vessel (see p. 483) for a distance of about three inches. In the upper part a longer incision is necessary than in the lower, in consequence of the greater depth of the artery, and a short transverse cut on each side through the dense fascia will facilitate the subsequent steps of the operation. The areolar interval between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum is then opened up, and the muscles drawn well to the sides ; in the lower part of the leg the extensor proprius hallucis must also be drawn out- wards. The artery is then found lying upon the interosseous membrane, or upon the bone, according to the level at which it is exposed. The nerve is either superficial to, or on the outer side of the vessels. In the lower third of the leg, the outer border of the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle is the best guide to the artery. The dorsal artery of the foot is tied by means of an incision an inch and a half in length, placed midway between the tendons of the extensor proprius hallucis and extensor longus digitorum muscles. On dividing the fascia, the artery is