494 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. taking a less tortuous course, it has very nearly the same relations to contiguous parts. It commences at the side of the nose ’.by a vein termed angular, which collects blood from the forehead, the upper eyelid and the nose, and it is increased in size by the junction of numerous tributaries on its way downwards. Below the jaw it inclines backwards, covered by the cervical fascia and the platysma myoides, and unites below the digastric muscle with the anterior division of the temporo- maxillary vein to form a short trunk (common facial vein), which opens into the internal jugular about the level of the hyoid bone. From the facial vein near its ending a communicating branch generally runs down- wards along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to join the lower part of the anterior jugular vein. Tributaries.—(a) The frontal vein is formed by branches which pass obliquely downwards and inwards from the roof of the skull and the forehead, maintaining communications in their course with the anterior branches of the temporal vein. It descends vertically along the lower and inner part of the forehead, running parallel with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, and beneath the inner end of the eyebrow it terminates in the angular vein. The right and left frontal veins com- municate together by cross branches, and sometimes the two vessels are united for a short distance in a common trunk, which divides again below. (b) The supraorbital vein, much smaller than the frontal, receives branches from the lower part of the forehead, from the eyebrow, and from the upper eyelid, and inclines inwards to join the termination of the frontal vein. It communicates externally with the temporal, and posteriorly with the ophthalmic vein. (c) The angular vein, formed by the junction of the supraorbital and frontal veins, is perceptible beneath the skin as it runs obliquely down- wards and outwards near the inner margin of the orbit, resting against the side of the nose at its root. It receives on its outer side one or two small superior palpebral veins from the upper eyelid, and anteriorly the nasal veins, which pass upwards to join it from the side and dorsum of the nose, while behind it communicates freely with the commencement of the ophthalmic vein. On a level with the lower margin of the orbit it becomes continuous with the facial vein. (d) Two or three inferior palpebral veins pass inwards and down- wards from the lower eyelid and adjacent part of the cheek to join the facial vein below the orbit. A communication is formed between these branches and the infraorbital vein. (e) The superior labial vein forms a close plexus in the substance of the orbicularis muscle in the upper lip (Chabbert), and ascends to open into the facial vein on a level with the ala of the nose. From a similar plexus in the lower lip two or three vessels descend over the base of the inferior maxilla and join the submental branch of the facial or the commencement of the anterior jugular vein. (/) The deep facial or anterior internal maxillary vein is a vessel of considerable size, which passes from the pterygoid plexus downwards and forwards over the zygomatic surface of the superior maxilla to open into the facial vein below the malar bone. (g) Small buccal, masseteric and parotid branches also join the facial vein on its outer side. (li) The submental vein commences below the chin, where it com-