MORPHOLOGY OF TIIE LIMB-MUSCLES. 267 muscle from tlie side of the body (Humphry). This sheath is at first a simple infundibulum, but it gradually extends in length with the growth of the limb, and becomes segmented, pari passu, with the segmentation of the hard parts. The deeper fibres of the sheath are restricted to passing from one segment to the next, while the superficial fibres are frequently found to pass over one segment altogether to more distal parts. Humphry holds that of the three layers into which the trunk portion of the ventro-lateral muscle divides, two layers may be traced into its appendicular segments, corresponding respectively to the external oblique and superficial portion of the internal oblique layers (see later the mor- phology of the trunk-muscles). In the upper limb, from the greater freedom of movement of the girdle, and from its more superficial position, the first segment of the muscular sheath is longer, and its constituent parts more easily recognised than in the case of the trunk-girdle muscles of the lower limb, which are not differentiated to the same extent from the trunk-muscles. Traced to the shoulder- girdle, the superficial layer of trunk-limb muscles is found to divide into three principal masses. Anteriorly are the pectorals ; superiorly and posteriorly are the cleido-mastoid and trapezius, the latter being continued to the bone of the arm as the deltoid ; and interiorly and posteriorly the latissimus dorsi. Beneath the trapezius are the rhomboids, and on the deeper surface of the latissimus dorsi are its occasional scapular portion and the teres major, all of which appear to be formed in the deeper parts of this layer. The muscles of this layer are frequently found to some extent united together either as varieties in man, or as regular structures among some of the lower animals, and it is interesting to note that many of the varieties hitherto described, seem to be reversions so far towards a uniform type. Thus in Lepidosiren the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi are blended together at their margins, so as to form one continuous muscle ; and in man the frequently recurring axillary arches or loops of muscular fibres which pass from one muscle to the other across the axillary space may point to an im- perfectly segmented condition. Again, the pectoralis major is always united in man with the superficial fibres of the external oblique, but in the cryptobranch it is continuous with it in its entire thickness. The cleido-mastoid, which in man is in close relation with the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major, being only separated from it by the clavicle, runs with the anterior part of the trapezius into the deltoid in those animals in which the clavicle is deficient, forming a cephalo-humeral muscle. The trunk-limb muscles of the deep layer form a much less complete layer than those of the superficial. They are attached to the shoulder-girdle in two sets. In.front of the glenoid cavity, and attached to the coracoid, is the costo- coracoid muscle (in man called subclavius from its more common place of attachment); and behind the glenoid cavity, attached to the scapula, are the costo-scapular muscles, viz., the serratus magnus, together with the levator scapulte. Besides these there is the slender omo-hyoid from the front of the hyoidean arch to the upper border of the scapula. In the lower limb the ventro-appendicular muscles are represented for the most part by the oblique abdominal muscles, only those parts of the muscles which pass from the girdle to the limb being found distinct. The gluteus maxi- mus most closely represents the latissimus dorsi, and is similarly inserted into the postaxial border of the limb. The pectoralis corresponds most nearly with the gracilis, and the trapezio-deltoid with the anterior part of the external oblique and pectineus. The gracilis and pectineus arise near each other, and are inserted into the preaxial border of the limb. The pectineus, however, seems to consist of two parts, of which the inner may be related to the subclavius, and the outer to the great pectoral and deltoid. All the other muscles of the limbs are intrinsic, and in their relation to the several segments are arranged in groups which may in the main be compared homologically with each other. These groups are situated chiefly on the ventral and dorsal aspects, or on the preaxial and postaxial borders of the limbs, and the muscles of which they are composed are respectively flexors and extensors, or protractors and retractors. In attempting, however, to institute a homological comparison between the individual muscles of the various segments in the two limbs, it will be necessary