699 INGUINAL HEKNIA. external abdominal ring, tlie hernia is named, from its course, direct, or from its relation to the epigastric artery, internal. Oblique inguinal hernia.—In the common form of this hernia the protruded viscus carries before it a covering of peritoneum (the sac of the hernia), derived from the outer fossa of that serous membrane (p. 701) ; and, in passing along the inguinal canal to the scrotum, it is successively invested by the coverings given to the spermatic cord from the abdominal parietes. The hernia and its sac lie directly in front of the vessels of the spermatic cord, and do not extend below the testis, even when the tumour is of large size. When the hernia does not extend beyond the inguinal canal, it is distinguished by the name bubonocele: and when it reaches the scrotum, it is commonly named from that circumstance scrotal hernia. There are two other varieties of oblique inguinal hernia, in which the peculi- arity depends on the condition of the process of peritoneum that accompanies the testis when this organ descends from the abdomen. In ordinary circum- stances the part of the peritoneum connected immediately with the testis becomes separated after birth from the general cavity of that serous membrane by the obliteration of the intervening canal; and the .hernial protrusion occurring after such obliteration has been completed, carries with it a distinct serous investment—the sac. But if this process of obliteration should not take place, and if a hernia should be formed, the protruded part is then received into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, which serves in the place of its sac. In this case the hernia is named congenital (hernia tunic* vaginalis,—Cooper). It is thus designated, because the condition necessary for its formation only exists Fig. 374.—Diagram of a part of the A Fig. 374. B PERITONEUM AND THE TUNICA VAGINA- LIS testis (after a sketch by Charles Bell). In a, the serous investment of the testis is seen to be continuous with the peritoneum ; in b, the two membranes are shown distinct from each other. 1, the peritoneal cavity ; 2, the testis. normally about the time of birth; but the same kind of hernia is occa- sionally found to be first formed in the adult, obviously in consequence of the tunica vaginalis remaining unclosed, and still continuous with the peri- toneum. The congitenal hernia, should it reach the scrotum, passes below the testis ; and, this organ being embedded in the protruded viscus, a careful exami- nation is necessary in order to detect its position. This peculiarity serves to distinguish the congenital from the ordinary form of the disease. To the second variety of inguinal hernia, in which the distinguishing character depends on the state of the tunica vaginalis testis, the name infantile has been applied (Hey). The hernia in this case is covered with a distinct sac, which is again invested by the upper end of the tunica vaginalis. The relative position of the two serous membranes (the hernial sac and the tunica vaginalis) may be accounted for by supposing the hernia to descend when the process of the perito- neum, which accompanies the testis from the abdomen, has been merely closed at the upper end, but not obliterated for any length. Hence during an opera- tion in such a case, the hernial sac is met with only after another serous bag (the tunica vaginalis testis) has been divided. The peculiarity here described has been repeatedly found present in the recently formed hernias of grown persons. The term infantile, therefore, like congenital, has reference to the condition of certain parts, rather than to the period of life at which the disease is first formed.