TILE HIP-BONE. 105 In the description of this bone it is convenient to recognise as distinct the three parts of it which are separate in early life, viz., the ilium, os pubis and ischium. These three portions meet at the aceta- bulum, in the formation of which they all take part; and the os pubis and ischium also meet on the inner side of the obturator foramen. The ilium constitutes the superior expanded portion of the bone, and forms a part of the acetabulum by its inferior extremity. Above the acetabulum it is limited anteriorly and posteriorly by margins which diverge at right angles one from the other, and superiorly by an arched thick border, the crest of the ilium. The crest is curved like the letterf, the fore part being concave inwards, the hinder part concave outwards ; its surface is broadest in its anterior and posterior thirds ; it is rough for the attachment of muscles, and on it may be distinguished an external and internal lip and an intermediate ridge. The anterior extremity of the crest forms a projection forwards called the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and, separated from it by a concave border, and placed imme- diately above the acetabulum, is another eminence called the anterior inferior spine: the projecting posterior extremity of the crest forms the posterior superior spine, and separated from it by a notch is the posterior inferior spine, below which the posterior border of the bone is hollowed out into tbe great sciatic (ilio-sciatic) notch. The external surface, or dorsum of the ilium, is traversed by three curved lines, which limit the areas of attachment of the gluteal muscles. The superior curved line leaves the iliac crest about one-fourth of its length from the posterior superior spine, and curves downwards and forwards towards the hinder part of the great sciatic notch : the middle curved line begins in front at the iliac crest, about one inch and a half from its anterior extremity, and arches backwards and downwards to the upper margin of the great sciatic notch : the inferior curved line, less strongly marked than the middle, commences at the anterior border, just above the anterior inferior spine, and is continued backwards nearly parallel to the margin of the acetabulum to the fore part of the great sciatic notch. Behind the superior line is a narrow semilunar surface, the upper portion of which is rough and gives attachment to the gluteus maximus muscle, while the lower part is smooth and free from muscular attachment. The sickle-shaped space between the iliac crest and superior curved line above and the inferior curved line below is occupied by the gluteus medius ; and the surface between the middle and inferior curved lines gives origin to the gluteus minimus. On the lowest part of this surface, immediately above the margin of the acetabulum, is a rough elongated mark where the posterior head of the rectus femoris is attached. The internal surface of the ilium is divided into two parts. The anterior of these (iliac surface) is the larger ; it is smooth and concave, occupied by the iliacus muscle, and is known as the iliac fossa. The posterior part (sacral surface) is again subdivided, presenting from below upwards :—1, a smooth surface entering into the formation of the true pelvis, and continuous with the pelvic surfaces of the pubis and ischium, only a faint line indicating in the adult the place of union ; this is separated from the iliac fossa by a smooth rounded border, the iliac portion of the ilio-pectineal line: 2, the uneven auricular surface, in the recent state covered with cartilage, for articulation with the sacrum, broad in front and extending on to the posterior inferior spine behind : 3, some deep impressions for the attachment of the sacrc-iliac