563 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. in the membrane covering the upper two spongy bones, and in that lining the posterior ethmoidal cells. The naso-palatine nerve, nerve of Cotunnius (Scarpa) (fig. 314, 3), long and slender, leaves the inner side of the ganglion with the preceding- branches, and after crossing the roof of the nasal fossa is directed down- wards and forwards on the septum nasi, between the periosteum and the pituitary membrane, towards the anterior palatine canal. The nerves of opposite sides descend to the palate through the mesial subdivisions of the canal, called the foramina of Scarpa, the nerve of the right side Fig. 321.—Nerves op the nose and the sphenopalatine ganglioh from the inker side (from Sappey, after Hirsclifelcl and Leveill5). f 1, network of the external branches of the olfactory nerve ; 2, nasal nerve, giving its external branch to the outer 'wall of the nose ; the septal branch is cut short ; 3, spheno- palatine ganglion ; 4, ramification of the large palatine nerve ; 5, small, and 6, external palatine nerve ; 7, inferior nasal branch ; 8, superior nasal branch ; 9, naso-palatine nerve cut short ; 10, Vidian nerve ; 11, great superficial petrosal nerve; 12, great deep petrosal nerve ; 13, the sympathetic nerves ascending on the internal carotid artery. usually behind that of the left (see p. 50). In the lower common fora- men the two naso-palatine nerves are connected with each other in a fine plexus ; and they end in several filaments, which are distributed to the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, and communicate with the great palatine nerve. In its course along the septum, small filaments are furnished from the naso-palatine nerve to the pituitary membrane. Posterior branches.—The branches directed backwards from the spheno-palatine ganglion are the Yidian and pharyngeal nerves. The Vidian nerve, arising from the back part of the ganglion, which seems to be prolonged into it, passes backwards through the Yidian canal, and after emerging from this divides in the foramen lacerum into two branches : one of these, the great superficial petrosal nerve, joins the facial, while the other, the great deep petrosal, communicates with the sympathetic. While the Yidian nerve is in its canal, it gives some small nasal branches, which supply the membrane of the back part of the roof of the nose (and septum, as well as the membrane covering the end of the Eustachian tube. Fig. 321. o c 2