375 POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY. distributed to tbe gland; 18, superior thyroid artery, anastomosing on the gland with the inferior thyroid ; 19, lingual artery, brought into view by the removal of part of the hyo- glossus muscle; 20, facial artery, giving off the palatine, tonsillar and submental branches; 21, inferior, 22, superior coronary artery ; 23, occipital artery ; 24. posterior auricular artery; 25, superficial temporal artery; 26, internal maxillary artery; 27, transverse facial, in this instance double, and given off directly by the external carotid artery. ascends under cover of the parotid gland, resting on the styloid process of the temporal bone and being crossed by the facial nerve, reaches the groove formed by the cartilage of the ear with the mastoid process, and there divides into two terminal branches, auricular and mastoid, which are distributed to the auricle and to the scalp behind and above the ear. Branches.—(a) Small branches to the parotid gland, and to the digastric and styloid muscles. (h) The stylo-mastoid branch, long and slender, enters the foramen of the same name in the temporal bone in company with the facial nerve. It sends small branches backwards to the mastoid cells, and others for- wards to the stapedius muscle and the tympanum. One of the latter branches is constantly found in young subjects to form, with the tym- panic branch of the internal maxillary artery, a vascular circle around the margin of the tympanic membrane, from which delicate offsets are distributed to that structure. The continuation of the stylo-mastoid branch is a minute twig which runs forwards in the aqueduct of Fallopius and anastomoses with the petrosal branch of the large middle meningeal artery. The stylo-mastoid branch frequently arises from the occipital artery. (c) The auricular branch ascends behind the car, passing beneath the retrahens auriculam which it supplies, and is expended mainly in offsets to the auricle, a small branch being prolonged to the integument of the hinder part of the temporal region, and anastomosing with the posterior branch of the superficial temporal artery. The offsets to the auricle are two or more in number ; they supply the inner surface of the pinna, and to a great extent also the outer surface by means of branches which perforate the cartilage or turn over its margin. {cl) The mastoid or occipital branch is directed backwards over the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, supplies the occipitalis muscle and over- lying integument, and anastomoses with the occipital artery. Varieties.—The posterior auricular artery is frequently very small, and lias been seen to end in the stylo-mastoid branch. On the other hand it may be larger than usual and compensate for a deficiency of the occipital or superficial temporal artery. It is often a branch of the occipital. 6. Ascending pharyngeal artery (v).—This artery, the smallest branch of the external carotid that has received a distinctive designation, is a long straight vessel which arises most commonly from half an inch to an inch above the beginning of the external carotid, and runs upwards to the base of the skull on the mesial side of the internal carotid artery, between that and the wall of the pharynx. Branches.—These are very small, and may be divided into three sets, viz., pharyngeal branches, prevertebral branches, and meningeal branches. (a) The pharyngeal branches pass inwards, for the most part to the pharynx. One or two small and variable branches ramify in the middle and inferior constrictor muscles, and anastomose with tlie superior thyroid artery. Higher up than these is a larger and more regular