1G8 ARTICULATIONS OF TIIE LOWER LIMB. of the sacrum being- pressed backwards, the wider part of the wedge formed by this bone is forced farther between the hip-bones so as to separate them to a greater degree, and thus to increase the capacity of the pelvis. It is thought also by some that during pregnancy a slight amount of separation may occur at the symphysis pubis from relaxation of the connecting parts. (See Wood, article Pelvis ” in “ Cyclopoed. of Anat. and Phys.” ; Zaglas, in Monthly Joum. of Med. Science, 1851 ; J. M. Duncan, in Dublin Quart. Joum. of Med. Science, 1854, and Edin. Med. Joum. 1855 ; Struthers, “ Anat. Observ.” ; Aeby, Zeitsch. f. rat. Med. 1858.) ARTICULATIONS OF TIIE LOWER LIMB. THE HIP-JOINT. This is a ball and socket joint, in which the globular head of the femur is received into the acetabulum or cotyloid cavity of the hip-bone. The articular portion of the acetabulum is a horseshoe-shaped cartilage- covered surface, broader above and behind than in front, and folded round a depression which, extending from the cotyloid notch to the bottom of the cavity, is occupied by adipose tissue covered with synovial membrane, the so-called synovial or Haversian gland. The articular surface of the femur presents a little behind and below its centre a pit in which the interarticular ligament is attached. The cotyloid ligament forms a thick fibro-cartilaginous ring round the margin of the acetabulum, increasing the_depth of its cavity, and bridging over the deficiency in its border. Its external surface is in contact with the capsular ligament, the internal closely embraces the head of the femur, and both are covered by the synovial membrane. Its fibres do not run parallel to the circumference of the cotyloid cavity, but pass obliquely from without inwards over its margin, one extremity being attached to the outer, the other to the inner surface. At the cotyloid notch the fibres of the ligament are continued from side to side, so as to render the circumference complete, and deeper transverse fibres are superadded, from which circumstance, as well as from being stretched across from one margin of the notch to the other, this part is called the transverse ligament. Beneath it an interval is left for the admission of the articular vessels. The interarticular or round ligament (ligamentum teres) is a variable fasciculus surrounded by synovial membrane, attached by one extremity, which is round, in the fossa on the head of the femur; by the other, which is broad and flat, to the transverse ligament and the margins of the cotyloid notch, the strongest fibres passing to the ischial border. It rests on the fat in the depression of the acetabulum. The capsular ligament surrounding the joint is attached superiorly to the margin of the cotyloid cavity, and interiorly to the neck of the femur. At its cotyloid attachment the capsule arises, above and behind, from the bony margin outside the attachment of the cotyloid ligament, having its inner surface in close contact with that ligament ; in front it arises from the outer aspect of the cotyloid ligament near its base, and at the notch it is similarly attached to the transverse ligament. At its femoral attachment the capsule extends anteriorly to the intertrochanteric line, superiorly to the root of the great trochanter, posteriorly and interiorly to the junction of the middle and external thirds of the neck. The fibres of which the capsule consists run in two directions, circularly and longitudinally. The circular fibres are most distinct at the lower