THE FASCIiE IN GENERAL. 189 same form, or in modifications of it which indicate relations to a typical or fundamental structure ; and that many of them are thus more or less repetitions of forms known to exist in different species of the lower animals. (Consult John Wood in Proceedings of Roy. Soc. 1864-8, and Turner and others in Journ. of An at. & Physiol.; Macalister’s Catalogue of Muscular Anomalies, in Trans. Roy. Irish Acad., 1872, and other papers ; Hallet, in Edin. Med. Journ., 1845 ; Wenzel Gruber, in Mem. of the Petersburg Acad. ; Henle’s Handbuch, Muskellekre, 2nd Ed., 1S71; Krause, Handbuch, 3rd Ed. vol. iii. 1S80.) FASCI2E. The term Fascia is applied to parts presen tine' a membranous dispo- sition of reticulated or felted fibrous tissue. These structures have usually been distinguished as the superficial and the deep; the former consisting of looser and finer material, and passing by then' slenderer kinds into the looser varieties of connective tissue; while the latter, denser in character, frequently exhibit more or less regular arrangements of strong white fibres, giving them a shining appearance, and are often termed aponeuroses. Superficial Fascia.—Under this name, or as subcutaneous fascia, is described the layer of loose tissue of varying density, which is placed immediately below the skin, all over the body. It is the web which contains the subcutaneous fat, the panniculus adiposus, and in some regions superficial muscles, which constitute the panniculus carnosus. From the subcutaneous tissue of the eyelids, however, as well as from that of the penis and scrotum, adipose matter is entirely absent. Beneath the fatty layer of the superficial fascia, which is immediately subcutaneous, there is generally another layer of the same structure, comparatively devoid of adipose tissue, in which the trunks of the subcutaneous vessels and nerves are found. When the subcutaneous fat becomes absorbed, the stroma in which it was deposited is still left, and its meshes approach one another, so that in lean subjects a more fibrous condition of the superficial fascia is found than in others. Deep Fasciae and Aponeuroses.—Under the name of deep fascia is comprehended that stronger layer of fibrous or connective tissue which, lying close to the muscles, invests them, or dips between them, and forms a nearly continuous covering of the body beneath the superficial fascia. It is chiefly to the stronger parts of this fascia that the name of aponeuroses has been given. Those covering the muscles have been named aponeuroses of investment (Bichat), to distinguish them from proper tendinous expansions, or aponeuroses of insertion, of muscles. This distinction, however, is far from being universally applicable : apo- neuroses of insertion are often continued into aponeuroses of investment, as in the instance of the gluteus maximus, or into softer fascia, as at the lateral parts of the occipito-ffontal aponeurosis. The principal apo- neuroses of investment are those which incase the muscles of the limbs, binding them down in a common sheath, and connected in various places either directly or by septa with the bones. Parts of the deep fasciae in the vicinity of the larger joints as at the wrist and ankle, become strengthened into tight transverse bands which serve to hold the tendons close to the bones, and hence receive the name of retinacula or annular ligaments. Synovial Sacs and Sheaths: Bursse Mucosae.—In various situ- ations where the tendons of muscles pass over the prominences of