89 THE HUMERUS. Fig. 69.—Right humerus from before. (A. T.) ^ Fig. 69. tuberosities; the shaft; and the inferior extremity, including the external and internal condyles, and the inferior articular surface. In general form it is subcylindrical and slightly twisted. 1, head ; 2, small tuberosity ; 3, great tuberosity ; 4, anatomical neck ; 5, bicipital groove, the line is at the level of the so-called surgical neck ; 6, inner edge of the bicipital groove, and mark of attachment of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles ; 7, pectoral ridge, running down into 7', the deltoid impression ; 8, spiral groove ; 9, external, 9', internal supracondylar ridge ; 10, trochlear articular surface ; 11, capitellum ; 12, internal condyle ; 13, external condyle ; 14, coronoid fossa. The superior extremity is the thickest part of the bone. The head is a large hemispherical articular elevation, directed inwards, upwards, and backwards. The ncclc, as described by ana- tomists, is the short portion of bone which sup- ports the head ; interiorly, it passes into the shaft ; superiorly, it is a mere groove between the head and the great tuberosity. The great tuberosity is a thick projection, continued up- wards from the external part of the shaft, and reaching nearly to the level of the upper margin of the head ; it is surmounted by three flat sur- faces, the uppermost of which gives attachment to the supraspinatus muscle, the loivest to the teres minor, and the intermediate one to the infraspinatus muscle. Separated from the great tuberosity by the commencement of the bicipital groove is the small tuberosity, oval and promi- nent ; it looks forwai’ds and gives attachment to the subscapularis muscle. The shaft or body, thick and cylindrical supe- riorly, becomes expanded transversely and some- what three-sided inferiorly. It is divided into anterior and posterior faces by lateral lines, slightly marked in the upper part, but more prominent in the lower, where they pass into the supracondylar ridges. Superiorly on its anterior aspect is the bicipital groove, so named from lodging the long tendon of the biceps muscle : this groove, commencing between the tuberosities, descends with an inclination inwards, and is bounded by two rough ridges, the ex- ternal and more prominent of which, pectoral ridge, gives attachment to the pectoralis major muscle, the internal to the latissimus dorsi and teres major. Towards the middle of the shaft, on the inner lateral line, is a rough linear mark where the coraco-brachialis muscle is inserted, and lower down there is a medullary foramen directed downwards into the interior of the bone. On the external part of the shaft, near its middle, in a line anteriorly with the pectoral ridge, is a large, rough, and uneven surface, of a triangular shape, the impression of the deltoid muscle. Below