386 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. internal carotid at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, runs forwards and inwards to reach the fore part of the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral hemispheres ; and as it enters this fissure it is connected with the vessel of the opposite side by the anterior communicating artery, a small transverse branch not more than two lines in length. The two anterior cerebral arteries, lying close together, in the next place turn round the anterior border of the corpus callosum, gain its upper surface, and break up into their terminal branches, which are distributed mainly to the frontal lobe of the hemisphere. A few small twigs enter the anterior perforated spot, and others supply the optic nerve. The middle cerebral artery (iii) passes obliquely outwards and upwards in the fissure of Sylvius to the surface of the island of Eeil, where it divides into several branches, which ramify in the pia mater investing the outer surface of the hemisphere. Numerous small branches, spring- ing from the artery close to its origin, turn upwards at once, and enter the brain at the anterior perforated spot. One or two anterior choroid arteries, which sometimes arise directly from the internal carotid, pass backwards and enter the fissure between the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and the crus cerebri, to reach the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, in which they are distributed to the choroid plexus. Varieties.—In rare instances, the anterior cerebral arteries are united into a single trunk, like the basilar artery behind, and this again divides into a right and left artery. Both anterior cerebral arteries have also been seen to spring from one internal carotid, by means of a common trunk which bifurcated as it entered the longitudinal fissure. The anterior communicating artery is sometimes double. The posterior communicating artery is sometimes connected with the middle cerebral artery instead of the trunk of the internal carotid. The posterior cere- bral artery of one side frequently arises by an enlarged posterior communicating artery from the internal carotid, and is connected only by a slender vessel with the basilar. The opposite condition, in which the middle cerebral artery is derived from the posterior, has been recorded by Hyrtl. Circle of Willis.—A remarkable anastomosis exists between the branches of the vertebral and internal carotid arteries within the cranium, by which the circulation is equalised in different parts of the brain, and any irregularity which might arise from the obliteration of one, or even two of the vessels, may speedily be remedied by a corresponding enlargement of the others. This anastomosis, known as the circle of Willis, is formed in the following manner. The anterior cerebral arteries are connected together, as already mentioned, by the anterior communicating artery. The right and left internal carotids, the trunks from which the anterior cerebral arteries arise, are united by the posterior communicating arteries to the pos- terior cerebral arteries, and these arise behind from a single trunk—the basilar artery. Within or opposite to the area of this vascular circle are the following parts of the encephalon, viz., the lamina cinerea, optic com- missure, infundibulum and tuber cinereum, corpora albicantia, and posterior perforated spot. Distribution of the cerebral arteries.—The mode of distribution of the arteries of the cerebrum has been studied by Heubner and Duret. According to these authors, the three cerebral arteries—anterior, middle, and posterior—give origin to two very distinct systems of vessels. The first of these, consisting of branches given off by the arteries while within or immediately after leaving the circle of Willis, is destined to the great central ganglia, and is called the central