652 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. superiorly into an ascending branch, and tapers below into the con- necting cord, so as to present usually a fusiform shape ; but there is considerable variety in this respect in different cases, the ganglion being occasionally broader than usual, and sometimes constricted at intervals. It has the reddish-grey colour characteristic of the ganglia of the sympathetic system. It is placed on the rectus anticus major muscle, opposite the second and third cervical vertebrae, and behind the internal carotid artery. Connection with spinal nerves.—At its outer side, the superior cervical ganglion is connected with the first four spinal nerves, by means of slender cords, which have the structure pointed out in the general description as being common to the series. The circumstance of this ganglion being connected with so many as four spinal nerves, together with its occasionally constricted appearance, is favourable to the view that it may be regarded as consisting of several ganglia which have coalesced. Connection with cranial nerves.—Small twigs connect the ganglion or its cranial cord with the lower ganglion of the pneumo-gastric, and with the twelfth cranial nerve, near the base of the skull; and another branch, which is directed upwards from the ganglion, divides at the base of the skull into two filaments, one of which ends in the petrous ganglion of the glossopharyngeal nerve ; while the other, entering the jugular foramen, joins the ganglion of the root of the pneumo- gastric. Besides the branches connecting it with cranial and spinal nerves, the first cervical ganglion gives off also the ascending branch, pharyngeal branches, the upper cardiac nerve, and branches to blood-vessels. Fig. 3C5. Fig. 365.—Connections of the sympathetic nerve through its carotid branch WITn SOME OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. The full description of this figure will be found at p. 561. The following numbers refer to sympathetic nerves and their connections : 6, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 7, Vidian nerve ; 9, large deep petrosal nerve ; 10, a part of the sixth nerve, receiving twigs from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; 11, superior cervical sympathetic ganglion ; 12, its prolongation in the carotid branch ; 15, tympanic nerve ; 16, twig uniting it to the sympathetic.