BASE OF THE SKULL. Fig. 52.—External base 63 Fig. 52. sphenoid bone. Between this division of the base of the skull and the palate are the posterior nares, separated by the vomer, and bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, below by the horizontal plates of the palate bones, and laterally by the internal pterygoid plates. On each side of the posterior nares is the pterygoid fossa, and a line from the external pterygoid. plate to the spine of the sphenoid forms the division between this region and the zygomatic fossa. Immediately behind or internal to this line is the groove for the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, formed by the margins of the great wing of the sphenoid and the petrous, and leading to the osseous part of the tube in the temporal bone. Between the apex of the petrous, the basilar process and the sphenoid is the foramen lacerum : in a line proceeding back- wards and outwards from this are the free surface of the petrous, the lower orifice of the carotid canal, the vaginal and styloid processes, and 1, palate plate of tlie superior maxillary bone ; 2, palate plate of the palate bone ; 3, anterior palatine canal ; 4, is placed outside the posterior palatine canal, inside the tuberosity of the superior maxilla, and in front of the smaller posterior palatine canals ; 5, inner surface of the external pterygoid plate; 6, is placed within the posterior opening of the right nasal fossa on the internal pterygoid plate ; 7, vomer ; x , posterior opening of the pterygo- palatine canal in front of the foramen lacerum; 8, spheno-maxillary fis- sure leading into the orbit ; 9, foramen spino- sum ; 10, foramen ovale; 11, placed on the apex of the petrous bone, between the foramen lacerum and the inferior opening of the carotid canal; 12, jugular foramen ; 13, articular eminence of the temporal bone ; 14, external audi- tory meatus ; 15, glenoid fossa in front of the fissure of Glaser ; 16, tympanic plate or posterior part of the glenoid fossa, close to the styloid process, behind which is seen the stylo-mastoid foramen ; 17, mastoid process, and to its inside the digastric and occipital grooves ; 18, basilar process of the occipital bone, and in front the mark of the still incomplete union with the body of the sphenoid bone ; 19, condyle of the occipital bone; 20, is placed in the foramen magnum, and points to the inner opening of the anterior condylar foramen; 21, posterior condylar foramen ; 22, jugular process of the occipital bone ; 23, external occipital crest running down from the protuberance; 24, superior curved line of the occipital bone ; 25, 26, inferior curved line. OF THE SKULL SHOWN IN FIGURE 49. (A. T.) J