ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 182 posed oil the under surface of the bones, but these are continuous with, or offsets from, the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle. C ubo-cuneiform Articulation.—The cuboid and the external cunei- form bones are connected by a dorsal ligament, which is a thin fasciculus of transverse fibres ; & plantar ligament, whose fibres are also transverse and rather indistinct; and a bundle of interosseous fibres. Between Fig. 153. Fig. 153.—The synovial cavities op the ankle-joint and the tarsal and TARSO-METATARSAL ARTICULATIONS, IN SECTION. (A.T.) \ The section has been carried obliquely upwards and inwards across the foot, and vertically through the upper part of the astragalus and the tibia. 1, cut surface of the tibia above the ankle-joint; 2, placed on the astragalus above the posterior astragalo- calcaneal synovial cavity ; 3, on the head of the astragalus close to the common astragalo- calcaneo-navicular synovial cavity ; 4, interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament ; 5, on the anterior edge of the calcaneum, points to the calcaneo-cuboid synovial cavity ; 6, internal calcaneo-cuboid ligament; 7, on the navicular bone, marks the common navi- culo-euneiform and intercuneiform synovial cavity ; 8, on the cuboid bone, points to the interosseous naviculo-euboid ligament; 9, internal, 10, middle, 11, external cuneiform bones ; 12, cuboid ; between these several bones the interosseous ligaments are shown ; from 13 to 17, are the metatarsal bones, with the interosseous ligaments between them ; between 9 and 14, the interosseous ligament from the internal cuneiform to the second metatarsal bone : there are also shown in this figure, the synovial cavity of the first tarso- metatarsal articulation, that between the middle and external cuneiform bones and the second and third metatarsal, and that between the cuboid and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. the two bones a distinct articulation is formed by cartilaginous surfaces ; it is provided sometimes with a separate synovial membrane, at others with an offset from that which belongs to the naviculo-cuneiform articu- lation. The three cuneiform bones are connected by transverse dorsal liga- ments and strong interosseous fibres ; the latter being their most efficient uniting structures. The synovial cavity of the naviculo-cuneiform articulation sends forwards two processes between these bones. Articulations of the Tarsus with the Metatarsus.—The four anterior bones of the tarsus, viz., the three cuneiform and the cuboid, articulate with the metatarsal bones ; and as the first and third cunei- form bones project beyond the middle one, and the third cuneiform