146 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. presented by the atlas ; but a slight rotation brings the bones into a stable position, in which the anterior half of one articular surface of the axis and the posterior half of the other, are laid closely against the atlas. It will also be found that a small amount of oblique motion between the atlas and occipital bone is permitted, by which the anterior half of one condyle and the posterior- part of the other may be rested together on the atlas, and that that is the position of greatest stability. This oblique position is that into which the bones are brought when there is any lateral flexure of the column, as is the case in the most natural and easy attitudes. ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS. The articulations of the ribs may be divided into three sets, costo- central, costo-transverse, and costo-sternal. I he costo-central articulation unites the head of the rib, in most instances, with the bodies of two vertebra by two distinct synovial joints, supported by ligaments as follows. The anterior costo-central or stellate ligament consists of fibres which radiate from the head of the rib to the body of its proper vertebra, to the intervertebral disc, and to the body of the vertebra above. Short fibres surround the remaining portion of the articulation and complete a capsule to the joint. The interarticnlar ligament is a thin and short band of fibres, which passes transversely from the ridge separating the two articular surfaces on the head of the rib to the intervertebral substance, and divides the articulation into two parts, each lined by a separate synovial membrane. The ligament does not exist in the articulations of the first, eleventh, or twelfth ribs, as these ribs are each attached to only one vertebral body by a single synovial joint. The costo-transverse articulation unites the tubercle and neck of the rib to the corresponding transverse process by a synovial joint Fig. 122. Fig. 122.—The 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, AND 9th DORSAL VERTEBRA!, WITH PARTS OF THE 6TH, 7th AND 8tH RIBS, FROM THE RIGHT SIDE AND FRONT. (A. T.) -J- Tlie 9th rib has been removed to show the articular surfaces of the ver- tebra; corresponding to it; 3 & 4, the heads of the 6th and 7th ribs, from which the stellate ligaments are seen spreading over the two adjacent verte- bral bodies and intervertebral substance; 5, the head of the 8th rib, from which the stellate ligament has been removed, so as to expose the upper and lower synovial cavities, and between them the interarticular ligament; 6, lower, and 6', upper facet of the costo-central articulation ; 7, posterior costo-trans- verse ligament; 7', the costo-transverse synovial cavity ; 7", the costo-transverse articular facet; 8, superior costo-trans- verse ligament; 9, superior articular process of the 5th vertebra ; 9', inferior of the 9th.