SUBSCAPULARIS.—ACTIONS OF SHOULDER MUSCLES. 207 serratus magmas, and is covered at its insertion by tbe coraco-brachialis and biceps, while, in tbe interval between, it forms part of the posterior wall of the axilla. Varieties.—The varieties hitherto observed in this muscle are not considerable. A small additional muscle, of somewhat variable form, has been described by different authors, as passing' from the upper part of the axillary border of the scapula to be inserted, at the lower margin of the subscapularis, into the capsu- lar ligament, or into the humerus near the inner margin of the bicipital groove, the subscapulo-capsularis of Macalister. Nerves of the" Shoulder Muscles—The supraspinatus and infraspinatus mus- cles receive their nerves from the suprascapular branch which proceeds from the upper trunk of the brachial plexus, and therefore from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The other muscles of this group are all supplied with nerves from the posterior division of the plexus, as follows : the deltoid and teres minor from the circumflex nerve, the subscapularis and the teres major from the upper and lower subscapular nerves. Actions of the Shoulder Muscles.—The deltoid muscle raises the arm from the side as far as the structure of the shoulder-joint permits, viz., till it is at right angles with the trunk. Farther elevation of the upper limb is effected chiefly by the serratus magnus and trapezius ; and it may be remarked that the insertion of the latter muscle corresponds almost exactly in extent to the origin of the del- toid, so that the two muscles may be considered continuous in structure as well as in action. The anterior fibres of the deltoid combine with the pectoralis major to draw the humerus forwards ; the posterior assist in drawing it backwards. The supraspinatus, infraspinatus and subscapularis muscles being placed more closely round the joint, when acting in concert with the deltoid, probably give steadiness and precision, while the deltoid gives the main elevating force to the movement. The supraspinatus simply abducts : the infraspinatus and subscapularis carry the arm backwards or forwards when it is raised, and rotate it outwards or inwards when hanging by the side. The teres major rotates the raised humerus inwards, the teres minor outwards : acting together, they assist in depressing the arm. The deltoid muscle superficially, and the supra- and infraspinatus muscles, the teres minor and subscapularis, more deeply, afford important protection to the shoulder- joint, and by their tension prevent displacement of the head of the humerus. MUSCLES AND FASCLH3 OF THE UPPER ARM. Fascije.—The aponeurosis of the arm is composed chiefly of trans- verse fibres, held together by others having an oblique or longitudinal direction ; it is thin over the biceps muscle, stronger where it covers the triceps, and particularly dense as it approaches the outer and inner condyles of the humerus. It is pierced on the inner side of the limb by the basilic vein, close below the middle of the arm. It is attached to the condyles and supracondylar ridges of the humerus by the two processes next to be described. The external and internal intermuscular septa are two fibrous partitions which bind the aponeurosis of the arm to the humerus, and with which the neighbouring muscles of the arm are intimately con- nected. The external intermuscular septum extends upwards from the outer condyle along the outer supracondylar ridge to the insertion of the deltoid, from which it receives tendinous fibres. It is pierced from behind forwards by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior pro- funda artery. The internal septum, much stronger, extends along the ridge from the inner condyle to the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle. It is pierced near the elbow, from before backwards, by the anastomotic branch of the brachial artery. At the level of the elbow the aponeurosis is closely united to the peri-