BOXES OF THE UPrEK LIMB. 98 rounded surfaces are broader, and extend farther, on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect of the bones ; and on each side is a tubercle with a hollow below it for the attachment of the lateral ligament. The carpal extremity presents distinctive peculiarities in each meta- carpal bone. That of the first has a saddle-shaped articular surface, con- cave from before backwards, and convex from side to side, which articu- lates with the trapezium ; and externally a slight prominence, to which the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is attached. The second is notched to receive the trapezoid bone : on the radial side is a small facet for the trapezium ; the more prominent ulnar lip articulates superiorly by a narrow surface with the os magnum, and internally with the third meta- carpal bone. The third bone articulates superiorly with the os magnum, and on the sides with the contiguous metacarpal bones ; at its posterior and outer angle it forms a projection upwards, styloid process. The fourth articulates principally with the unciform bone above, but also by a small facet at the posterior and outer corner with the os magnum ; on its radial side arc two small surfaces, and on the ulnar side one, for articula- tion with the adjacent metacarpal bones. The fifth articulates superiorly with the unciform bone by means of a saddle-shaped surface directed slightly outwards, and externally with the fourth metacarpal bone, while on its ulnar side it presents, a rough and prominent tuberosity. Fig. 77 Bight hand seen from behind. (A. T.) i The indications are the same as in the pre- ceding figure. THE DIGITAL PHALANGES. The phalanges (internodia) are four- teen in number ; three for each finger, but only two for the thumb. Those of the first roiu are slightly curved like the metacarpal bones. Their dorsal surfaces are smooth and trans- versely convex ; the palmar are flat from side to side, and bounded by rough margins, which give insertion to the fibrous sheaths of the flexor tendons. Their proximal extremities are thick, and articulate each by a transversely oval concave surface with the corre- sponding metacarpal bone. Their distal extremities, smaller and more compressed antero-posteriorly, are di- vided by a shallow groove into two condyles. Those of the middle row are four in number. Smaller than those of the preceding set, they resemble them in form, with this difference, that their proximal extremities present, on the articular surface, a slight middle elevation and two lateral depressions, adapted to articulate with the condyles of the first phalanges. The terminal or ungual phalanges, five in number, have proximal extremities similar to those of the middle row, but with a depression in front, where the flexor tendon is inserted. They taper towards their FiS. 77.