VERTEBRATE TYPE. In the human body, as in that of all vertebrate animals, the character of segmentation is most obvious in the osseous and nervous systems, so that the form and structure of the other systems seem to be in some measure moulded upon those of the skeleton and cerebro-spinal axis. The trunk of the body more especially is formed of a series of parts or segments of similar structure sufficiently distinct in some of the systems, but more or less blended together in others. Such ideal segments of the body may be named vertebral segments, or somatomes (Goodsir). In the limbs, although in the earliest stages of their formation some segmental connection may be traced between them and the trunk, the repetition of vertebral elements is, in their more advanced state of growth, greatly obscured by the modifications of form and structure they have undergone. Homology.—A certain agreement in structure, situation and connection of parts or organs constitutes what is called homology, and this term is generally employed to indicate the morphological identity of representative parts in different animals, which may be considered to have its cause in community of origin (homogeny, Lankester), while the anatomical correspondence of parts which are repeated in the same animal may be more exactly distinguished as serial homology (Jiomodynamy, Gegenbaur). Thus the arm-bone or humerus of a man is homologous (homogenetic) with the upper bone of the fore limb of a quadruped, or of the wing of a bird, while it is at the same time serially homo- logous (homodynamic) with the thigh-bone of man himself, or any other vertebrate animal. It has farther been found convenient to express by the word analogy that kind of resemblance among the organs of animals which depends upon similarity of function, and although it may be accompanied by considerable agreement in structure, yet is not rendered complete by anatomical relation and connection: for example, the gills of a fish, of a crab, and of a mussel, serving the same function, are analogous organs, but in no sense homologous, as all morpholo- gical correspondence, or genetic relation is wanting between them. Thus also, the upper limb of a man, the fore limb of a quadruped, the wing of a bird, and the pectoral fin of a fish are homologous but not analogous structures, the wing of a bat and the wing of a bird are both homologous and analogous, whilst the last is analogous to but not homologous with the wing of an insect. Symmetry of Form—A remarkable regularity of form pervades the organi- sation of certain parts of the body, especially the whole of the limbs, the head and neck, and the framework, at least, and external walls of the trunk of the body. Thus, if we conceive the body to be divided equally by a plane which passes from its dorsal to its ventral aspect (mesial plane), the two halves, in so far as regards the parts previously mentioned, correspond almost exactly with each other, excepting by then- lateral transposition,—and the human body thus presents in a marked manner the character of lateral symmetry. There is, however, a departure from this symmetrical form in the developed condition of certain of the internal organs, such as the alimentary canal from the stomach downwards, the heart and first part of the great bloodvessels, the liver, spleen, and some other viscera, which are therefore styled the asymmetrical parts or viscera. Descriptive Terms.—In the description of parts so numerous, so various in form, and so complex in them connections as those composing the human body, there is difficulty in finding terms which shall indicate with sufficient precision their actual position and their relation to the rest of the organism. This diffi- culty is farther increased by the exceptional erect attitude in which the trunk of the human body is placed as compared with the horizontal position in animals. Hence, a number of terms have long been in use in human anatomy which are understood in a technical or restricted sense. For example, the mesial plane, already referred to, being that by which the body might be divided into right and left lateral halves, and the middle or median line being that in which the mesial plane meets the surface of the body, the words internal and external are used to denote relative nearness to and distance from this plane on either side, and might therefore be replaced by mesial and lateral. The terms sagittal and frontal are sometimes used in indication of direction within the body: sagittal denoting a dorso-ventral direction in or parallel to the mesial plane, frontal a