525 PORTAL VEIN. Near the right end of the transverse fissure, the vena portae becomes somewhat enlarged (sinus of the portal vein), and immediately divides into two branches. That of the right side enters directly the substance of the corresponding lobe of the liver, and spreads out into branches, each of which is accompanied by an offset of the hepatic artery and of the hepatic duct. The left branch, which is smaller but necessarily longer, passes across to gain the left end of the transverse fissure, where it Fig. 303.—Diagrammatic OUTLINE OP THE PORTAL VEIN AND ITS TRIBUTA- RIES. (A. T.) £ The liver is turned up- wards, so as to present a portion of its under sur- face : a, gall-bladder ; b, quadrate lobule ; c, left lobe ; 1, 1, portal vein ; 2, 2, superior mesenteric vein ; 2', its middle colic branch, forming loops with the right and left colic veins ; 3, 3, intesti- nal branches ; +, pan- ereatico-duodenal branch ; 4, right colic branch; 5, ileo-co’lic; 6, 6, coronary vein of stomach ; + + , right gastro-epiploic ; 7, splenic vein; 7', its branches from the spleen ; 7", its branches from the stomach ; 8, inferior me- senteric vein ; 9, left colic branch ; 9', its communi- cation with the middle colic ; 10, sigmoid ; 11, superior hemorrhoidal ; 12, the right, and 13, the left division of the portal vein in the transverse fis- sure of the liver ; 14, 14, obliterated cord of the umbilical vein (round liga- ment of the liver); 15, obliterated cord of the ductus venosus ; 16, part of inferior vena cava. Fig. 303. ramifies like the preceding branch. Opposite the fore part of the longi- tudinal fissure, the left branch of the portal vein is joined anteriorly by the so-called round ligament of the liver, the remains of the umbilical vein of the foetus ; and a little to the right of this, from its posterior aspect, another fibrous cord, the obliterated ductus venosus, passes backwards to join the inferior vena cava. Tributaries.—The principal branches which by their union con- tribute to form the portal vein are the superior and inferior mesenteric,