554 CRANIAL NERVES. ing the greater portion of the tongue ; it may possibly also confer the power of taste upon the fore part of the latter organ. The motor root supplies chiefly the muscles of mastication. The two roots of the nerve spring from the side of the pons Yarolii, where the transverse fibres of the latter are prolonged into the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, and much nearer its upper than its lower border. The small root issues above the large one, and the two are separated from one another by a small band of the cross fibres of the pons. From this origin, the two roots are directed forwards beneath the anterior extremity of the tentorium to the middle fossa of the base of the skull, and enter a recess in the dura mater over the summit of the petrous part of the temporal bone. Here the large root becomes expanded, and its funiculi divide and unite so as to form a plexiform network which is continued into the Gasserian ganglion. The small root inclines down- wards on the inner side of the large root, and then passes outwards beneath the ganglion, without its fibres being incorporated in any way with the latter, to join below the foramen ovale the lowest of the three trunks issuing from the ganglion. o o o Fig. 317. Fig. 317.—General plan OF THE BRANCHES OF the fifth pair (after a sketch by Charles Bell), i 1, small root of the fifth nerve ; 2, large root, passing forwards into the Gasserian ganglion ; 3, placed on the bone above the ophthalmic nerve, which is dividing into the frontal, lachrymal, and nasal branches, the latter connected with the oph- thalmic ganglion ; 4, placed on the bone close to the foramen rotundum, marks, the ffiperior maxillary division, which is con- nected below with the spheno-palatine ganglion, and passes forwards to the infraorbital foramen ; 5, placed on the bone over the foramen ovale, marks the inferior maxillary nerve, giving off the auri- culo-temporal and muscu- lar branches, and contin- ued by the inferior dental to the lower jaw, and by the lingual to the tongue ; a, submaxillary gland, the submaxillary ganglion placed above it in connection with the lingual nerve ; 6, chorda tympani; 7, facial nerve, issuing from the stylo-mastoid foramen. The ganglion of the fifth nerve or Gasserian ganglion (ganglion semi- lunare) occupies a depression on the upper part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, near the apex, and is somewhat crescentic in form, the convexity being turned forwards. It is flattened, and striated on the