CRANIAL NERVES. 55(5 the malar bone in the place of the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve, which was absent (G. D. T.). The lachrymal branch sometimes appears to be derived in part from the fourth nerve, but in such cases the additional root is composed of fibres that have passed over from the ophthalmic to the fourth while these nerves are contained in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus (Cruveilhier). Frontal nerve.—The frontal nerve (fig. 31G, 4), the largest division of the ophthalmic, also enters the orbit above the muscles, and runs forwards between the elevator of the upper eyelid and tire periosteum. About the middle of the orbit it divides into two branches, supratrochlear and supraorbital. (a) The supratrochlear nerve, much the smaller of the two branches, inclines inwards towards the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, close to which it sends a filament downwards to communicate in a loop with the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve, and then leaves the orbit between the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle and the bone. In this position, the nerve gives twigs to the skin and conjunctiva of the upper eyelid, and finally it turns upwards, dividing into branches which perforate the orbicularis and frontalis muscles, and are distributed to the integument of the lower and mesial part of the forehead. (b) The supraorbital nerve is the continuation of the frontal nerve, and leaves the orbit by the supraorbital notch or foramen. It divides into two branches, inner and outer, which ascend on the forehead beneath the frontalis muscle, and are distributed by numerous slender ramifica- tions to the skin of the fore and upper parts of the scalp. The outer branch is the larger and extends backwards nearly to the lambdoid suture ; the inner branch reaches but a little way over the parietal bone. Small branches also pass to the pericranium, and as the nerve emerges from the orbit twigs are sent downwards to the upper eyelid. The primary division of the supraorbital nerve often takes place before it issues from the orbit, and in that case only the larger branch passes through the supraorbital notch, the smaller one being placed more internally, and not uufrequently traversing a second slighter notch {frontal notch, Henle) in the orbital margin (fig. 31G, 5, G). The branches of the supraorbital nerve, and the same is the case with all the cutaneous offsets of the fifth, form communications with the adjacent ramifications of the facial nerve ; in this way sensory fibres derived from the fifth nerve may be conveyed to the surrounding muscles. Nasal nerve.—The nasal nerve (oculo-nasal) enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus muscle, and between the two divisions of the third nerve. It then inclines inwards over the optic nerve, pass- ing beneath the superior rectus and superior oblique muscles, to the inner side of the orbit, and leaves that cavity by the anterior internal orbital canal. In this part of its course it furnishes a slender branch to the ophthalmic ganglion, one or two filaments (long ciliary) directly to the eyeball, and a considerable infratrochlear branch, which arises just before the nerve enters its canal on the inner side of the orbit. Arrived in the cranial cavity, the nerve is directed forwards in a groove at the outer edge of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone to a small canal between the fore part of the plate and the frontal bone (p. 47), through which it descends to the nasal fossa. Here it gives off internal or septal and external branches to the mucous membrane of the fore part of the nasal fossa, and is then continued downwards in the groove