coo SPINAL NERVES. perforated the deep fascia near the cranium, the small occipital nerve ascends to the scalp between the ear and the great occipital nerve, and ends in cutaneous filaments which extend upwards to somewhat above the level of the ear. It communicates with branches from the great occipital, great auricular and posterior auricular nerves, and it supplies an auricular branch which is distributed to the upper part of the ear on its inner aspect. Varieties.—The small occipital nerve is sometimes directed backwards across the posterior triangle of the neck, and perforates the trapezius muscle close to its upper border, before ascending to the head. The auricular branch may be derived from the great occipital nerve when the small occipital is of less size than usual. SUPERFICIAL DESCENDING BRANCHES. Supraclavicular nerves.—The descending scries of the superficial nerves are thus named. They arise together from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and descend in the interval between the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius muscles. As they approach the clavicle, they are three or more in number, and are recognized as internal, middle, and external. («) The internal branch (suprasternal), which is much smaller than the rest, ramifies over and below the inner third of the clavicle, and terminates near the sternum. (b) The middle branch (supraclavicular), generally divided into two or three parts, and crossing the clavicle in the interval between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles, distributes some twigs over the fore part of the deltoid, and others over the pectoral muscle as low as the fourth rib. The latter join the small anterior cutaneous branches of some of the upper intercostal nerves. (c) The external or posterior branch (supra-acromial) is directed outwards across the clavicular attachment of the trapezius muscle, and ramifies over the acromion and in the integument of the outer and back part of the shoulder. Variety.—One of the middle branches of the supraclavicular nerves occa- sionally perforates the clavicle on its way downwards. DEEP BRANCHES : INTERNAL SERIES. Connecting branches.—The cervical plexus is connected near the base of the skull with the pneumo-gastric, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves, by means of filaments intervening between those nerves and the loop formed by the first two cervical nerves in front of the atlas (p. 597). Muscular branches.—Branches to the prcvertebral muscles proceed from the cervical nerves close to the vertebrae, including the loop between the first two of these nerves. Two branches to the ansa hypoglossi (rami communicantes noni), one from the second, the other from the third cervical nerve, descend over or under the internal jugular vein, to form a loop of communication with the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve, and aid in the supply of the infrahyoid muscles (p. 589). Phrenic nerve.—The diaphragmatic or phrenic nerve passes down through the lower part of the neck and the thorax to its destination.