99 POULTRY AND GAME Poultry should never be served underdone, hut he well cooked. It requires more cooking than game in proportion to its size. Avery large fowl will take quite two hours if cooked slowly, a good-sized fowl an hour and a half, a medium size from one to one and a quarter hours, a spring chicken from forty to fifty minutes. If young and tender, the skin of the breast will look fine and transparent, and the bone will bend easily. A good test is to pierce the flesh with a pin; it should go in quite easily. The claws should bend without cracking, and the legs should be smooth. Choose dark legs for roasting, and white ones for boiling. The weight should be great in proportion to the size. Fowls are in season all the year round, also chickens, spring chickens in April, May, and part of June. The price varies from 2s. 6d. to 4s., according to size and season. An old fowl is good for broth. It is also very good if it is steamed for three or four hours, and then roasted and well basted. To prepare Fowls for Cooking. After removing the feathers, singe off the hairs that remain with a lighted taper, wipe with a damp cloth, turn the bird on to its breast, make a slit between the shoulders, and with your fingers loosen the skin all round the neck until it is quite free; then cut it off close to the body. Now cut the skin of the neck, leaving quite 2 inches hanging to the body. Remove the crop (a bag of skin in front of neck), put in your first finger, and work it gradually round inside the bird, keeping near to the carcass, and loosen all the ligaments you come across. Now make a small slit at the other end by the side of the leg, put in your finger, and loosen in the same way. Take hold of the gizzard and pull. If you have broken all the ligaments properly, the whole of the inside will come out with the gizzard. Wipe out the bird with a damp cloth, and rub in some salt and lemon. Remove the gall-bag from the liver, pull the neck from the head. Cut the skin of the 7—2