3°j VOCABULARY Braise.—To cook meat in a pan (a braisiere) closely covered to prevent evaporation, so that the meat retains its own juices, and takes its flavour from the vegetables, herbs, bacon, etc., cooked with it. Brioche.—A light French yeast cake, similar to Bath buns. Cannelons.—Small rolls of pastry stuffed with meat. Caramel.—Sugar boiled to a very dark brown, used for flavouring and colouring. Cardamoms.—A spice used for flavouring, a plant of the genus Amomum. Casserole.—A stewpan, or a shape of rice, pastry, etc., filled with meat, etc. Caviare.—Sturgeon’s roe salted. Charlotte.—Usually a mould of biscuits filled with cream or custard. Chartreuse.—Originally a mould of fruit or vegetables set in jelly or aspic, now used also for cooked game, etc., served in this style. Chervil.—An aromatic herb used for flavouring. Chives.—A plant of the Onion family, the stalks of which are used for flavouring. Colcannon.—An Irish dish of mashed potatoes and boiled cabbage. Compote.—Fruits stewed in syrup. Consomme.—Clear soup. Croquettes.—Shapes of minced meat, coated with egg and breadcrumbs, and fried. Croustades.—Shapes of bread fried, in which minces, etc., are served. Croutons.—Thin slices of bread cut into shapes, fried, and used for garnishing. Curacoa.—A liqueur often used for flavouring creams, etc. Darioles.—Small moulds used for jellies, puddings, etc. Daubiere.—An oval stewpan. Demi-glace.—A brown sauce. Dragees.—Sugar-plums. Eclair.—A French pastry filled with cream. Egg-nogg.—An American drink. Entree.—Fish, meat, fowl, or game dressed in some fancy way, generally served with a sauce ; hot or cold side dishes. Entremets.—Dainty dishes of vegetables, hot or cold sweets, or savouries. Fanchonettes.—Small custard tartlets covered with a meringue mixture. Fecule.—A fine flour used for thickening. Fennel.—An aromatic plant used for sauces and garnishing. Financiere.—A rich ragout used in entrees. Fines Ilerbes.—A mixture of green herbs, parsley, tarragon, chervil, thyme, etc. 20