11 BY PROFESSOR STRUTHERS. the perineum (fascia of Colles). Scarpa’s fascia viewed surgically; influence on the course of the urine in infiltra- tion ; relations to inguinal and femoral hernia;. 15. Memoir on the Clavicle. (.Published separately, Edinburgh, 1855.) Contents.—A study of the Clavicle, and its relation to the soft parts, pp. 90. 16. On Jugular Venesection in Asphyxia, anatomically and experimentally considered, including the De- monstration of Valves in the Veins of the Neck. (.Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1856.) Contents.—(A) Valves.—Error of usual statement that valves not present in veins of head and neck except in external jugular. Valve of two flaps found always at or near termination of internal jugular vein, and in subclavian vein just external to entrance of external jugular. Arrangement of these valves. Varieties in size and number of the flaps of the subclavian valve. Valve at termination of vertebral vein. Examination of upper and lower and occasional third pair of valves in external jugular vein. Valves in its transverse tributaries. Valve found once in anterior jugular vein. Valve not usual at mouth of thoracic duct, but some way down. Woodcut showing the valves in these veins, with occasional third flap of subclavian valve. (B) Experiments.—Account of series of experiments made to ascertain whether, in human body, distended right heart and great veins, as in asphyxia, could be relieved by opening external jugular vein. Water injected upwards from femoral vein. Veins of neck become distended, the fluid having overcome the first valve of each. Water regurgitates freely from heart by lancet opening between upper and lower valves of external jugular. Very freely when flap of lower valve held aside by probe, but this not required. Conclusion, that, for recovery of the apparently drowned, jugular venesection may be useful in man, as found by experiments of John Reid and others to be in animals. If employed to be done early, and care to prevent entrance of air into the vein during artificial respiration.