REFERENCES TO PAPERS IN ANATOMY. 16 on each foot; direct hereditary origin. (/) Case of two thumbs, one of them with three phalanges in each hand ; two great toes on each foot, with additional metatarsal bone in one foot; direct hereditary origin; brother to last case, another brother with the great toes double, (k) Case of double distal phalanx of thumb; distant hereditary origin. (/) Case of additional thumb on each hand, with additional metacarpal bone, and double great toe on one foot; distant hereditary origin ; this and three preceding cases (/, j, and k) distantly related to each other, (m) Case of additional thumb on one hand ; distant hereditary origin, (n) Case of additional thumb on one hand, with additional metacarpal bone ; distant hereditary origin, (o) Case of six fingers and toes ; brother has the same ; interrupted hereditary origin. (3) Dissection of three limbs of a child presenting diminu- tion in the number of digits. Part II.— Variation in the number of Phalanges. {p) Case in which all the fingers and toes want a phalanx, in several members of a family. Ten children; the variety occurs in the fifth (a boy), eighth or ninth (twin boys), and tenth (a daughter); ancestors unknown, condition not present in any near relative. (q) Case in which four fingers of one hand have but one phalanx each, the thumb has its two phalanges, and same length as thumb on normal hand; nails present; father’s aunt had two thumbs on one hand, (r) Case in which the fingers of one hand are formed so as to give hand appearance of a foot (fig. 4, from a cast); thumb two phalanges, index and middle fingers one phalanx (doubtful), fourth and fifth fingers no phalanges ; nail on thumb only ; no heredity. (s) Case of five very rudimentary digits on one hand; no heredity. In the last two cases there are stories of impres- sions made on mother’s mind during pregnancy. (t) Case of additional phalanx in both thumbs ; probably hereditary (fig. 6, from a photograph ; age 21 ; middle phalanx the shortest and triangular ; aunt had same kind of thumb on one hand. Remarks on the normal occurrence of a bone less in the internal digit, as compared with the four outer digits, in man