22 REFERENCES TO PAPERS IN ANATOMY. of the check ligaments. These vertebrae were presented by the author to the Anatomical Museum of Edinburgh Uni- versity. (4) Atlas and axis of another B. musculus, Norway, 1872. (5) Lesser Fin-whale (B. rostrata), at Aberdeen, 1870, young female, 14^ feet, soft parts dissected. Fig. 6, Atlas of this whale, seen from before, showing the transverse ligament. (A) Examination of the parts in the great Fin-whales. 2. Transverse processes viewed in relation to function. Great rete mirabile filling lateral rings. Rete mirabile of spinal canal and intervertebral foramina ; great size in comparison with spinal cord and nerves. Function primarily in relation to muscles and ligaments. Three stages of lower processes, root stage, tubercular stage, nerve-groove stage. Three stages of upper processes, nerve-groove, tubercular, terminal. 3. Ligaments of the transverse processes; great strength of ligaments uniting the terminal expansions. 4. Ligaments of the spines, laminae, and articular processes. Articulations between the bodies; fibro-cartilages, proportions of ligament and pulp; corresponding marks on the bones; amount of motion. 6. Articulations between atlas, axis, and occipital bone, (a) Transverse ligament, large, no contact with odontoid process, flattened in opposite direction to that in man; division of canal into two parts by this ligament, explaining form of canal in the finners ; chief function to attach part of check ligaments. (b) Check ligaments, arese of attachments to axis and atlas, are great interosseous ligaments ; correspond to lower check ligaments of man. (c) Lig. suspensorium dentis (occipito-odontoid), size of thumb. (d) Superior longitudinal ligament (occipito-axoid), prolongation of superior common ligament of bodies. Soft parts which separate right and left occipito-atlantal joints. The Cervical Vertebra serially considered.—7. Table of measurements in the four great finners. 8. The bodies. 9. Spinal canal, laminse, anapophyses, spinous processes. 10. Articular processes. 11. Inferior transverse processes. 12. Superior transverse processes. 13. The lateral rings. 14. Recognition of the five posterior vertebrae. 15. The