12 REFERENCES TO PAPERS IN ANATOMY. 17. Demonstration of the Use of the Round Ligament of the Hip Joint. (,British Association for the Advancement of Science, Glasgow, 1855; Edinburgh MedicalJournal, April, 1857; more fully in latter, Nov., 1858.) Contents.—(A) Author’s method of exposing the round ligament,—by removing the floor of the acetabulum, leaving capsular ligament and other soft parts untouched. This method renders demonstration of use of round ligament possible. First employed by author in 1847, and taught in his class; first published in 1855, as above. Exposure, should be free and best done with gouge and mallet. Wood- cut, fig. 8, showing ligament thus exposed. (B) . Special parts of the Capsular ligament.—Besides Ilio-femoral band and Pubo-femoral band, a third special band, the “ Ischio-femoral,” described ; passing from ischium, at behind cotyloid notch, semispirally behind neck of femur, outwards and upwards to outer part of great trochanter. Is a strong band, checking rotation inwards, especially in flexed position. (C) Condition of the Ligamentum Teres in the various movements of the hip joint.—Fig. x, Typical form of cushioned recess in acetabulum. Fig. 2, Position, form, and direction of pit and groove on head of femur. Exact adaptations of these to the sweep of the round ligament and to the position in which it is tight. Figs. 3 and 4, Position of ligament in rotation inwards and outwards. Figs. 5 and 7, Position in adduction, ligament seen not to be tight and not in its groove. Figs. 6 and 8, Position of ligament in combined movement of rotation outwards and flexion, ligament tight and flat and occupying its groove. Remarks. Round liga- ment does not check adduction in erect posture, as formerly supposed, though nearly tight when adduction combined with flexion. In erect position adduction, over-extension, and rotation outwards are all checked by ilio-femoral band. That great band relaxed by flexion. Rotation outwards, the chief danger to the hip joint, is now checked by the round ligament together with the outer part (ilio-trochanteric part)