14 REFERENCES TO TAPERS IN ANATOMY. extent as in ox, hoofs quite separate. Great metacarpal felt as if bifid at lower end, further up as if normal. The lesser metacarpal bones felt as in normal horse. Specimen not obtained after death. 21. On the Relative Weight of the Viscera on the Two Sides of the Body; and on the consequent position of the Centre of Gravity to the Right Side. (.Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1863.) Contents.—The object of this inquiry was to determine whether the viscera are of equal or unequal weight on the right and left sides of the middle line of the body. The observations, extending over several years, were made by introducing needles in the exact middle line, or by slicing with a long knife, and then weighing the parts. Liver; relative weight of right and left lobes ; extent to which left lobe lies to right of middle line; correspondence of falciform ligament to longitudinal fissure; position of falciform ligament in relation to middle line; movements of the liver, and functions of the falciform and other ligaments of the liver; relative weight of the parts of the liver which lie in the internal and external subdivisions of the right side; effect of posture on the position of the liver. Spleen, pan- creas, stomach, kidneys, lungs, heart, great bloodvessels, intestines. Influence of weight of contents of stomach. Symmetry and equipoise of the right and left sides of the body zoologically and developmentally considered. A- symmetry in various mammals, birds, reptiles, and fishes. Equipoise a different question. The right side the “ lying ” side of the ox. Greater influence of want of equipoise in man than in quadruped owing to erect posture and greater lateral development of trunk. Conclusion as to relative weight of the viscera on the right and left sides of man. Tabular view of the weights on the two sides. Preponderance on right side 2 2j ounces. Deduct for contents of stomach 7! ounces ; leaving total preponderance on right side 15 ounces. This not an over- estimate. Centre of gravity therefore to right side of middle line.