Note.—The following enumeration of published Papers in Anatomy is prepared for the use of my present Pupils and of many former Pupils to whom I have had the honour and pleasure to teach Anatomy in its various aspects since 1845, in Edinburgh and Aberdeen. The Papers are scattered in various periodicals, some of which are not now continued. The earlier of these Papers were reprinted in 1854 in a volume, “Anatomical and Physiological Observations,” now out of print, and some few of them appeared in that volume only. For some parts, here and there the interpretation of the facts, of the earlier Papers I can offer only the excuse of youthfulness, and that my anatomical upbringing was entirely teleological and surgical. In my Student-days, in the Edinburgh School, Anatomy was at its lowest ebb in the University under the third Monro ; there was no Comparative Anatomy in the School except the silent Museum Dr. Barclay had left behind him in the College of Surgeons; Dr. Knox was gone; John Goodsir had not then arisen with the Microscope and his Morphology; the Embry- ology of Allen Thomson though original was then descriptive only; there was no Anthropology; Owen’s Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton had not yet appeared ; still less had Darwin come with his interpretation of the facts. Surgical Anatomy was well taught, admirably so by Spence, my early teacher in that and afterwards respected surgical colleague of many years. I have to express my painful regret that more and better work has not been accomplished. The consumption of time in the Anato- mical School, practically the whole day, winter and summer; in Aberdeen the forming of a Museum of Anatomy human and comparative, the advancement of the Medical School, and the calls of University business; the distraction of numerous projects in medical legislation threatening injury to the higher education in Scotland, requiring to be met—have all encroached seriously on my time for research. All along that has had to be relegated to the night and to holiday times. A number of researches yet unfinished may or may not be completed according as health and strength remain. An indication of the contents of each Paper is added, which may be useful to those who desire to know what to look for. J. S. July, i88g.