BY PROFESSOR STRUTHERS. 15 Reference to hypothesis of Professor Andrew Buchanan, that equipoise of viscera disturbed by acts of inspiration sending liver further to right side, and that this leads to preferential use of right hand. Result of present inquiry shows that viscera are naturally heavier on right side and gives anatomical basis for the hypothesis. Greater weight on right side leads to preference of right lower limb, and that to preference of right upper limb. 22. On Variation in the Number of Fingers and Toes, and in the Number of Phalanges in Man. (Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, 1863.) Contents.—Account of numerous cases, with family history and remarks. Part I.— Variation in the Number of Digits. (1) Cases of increase in the number which could not be traced to hereditary origin. Including :—(a) Case of six digits in three members of family of seven children, in one on each foot, in two on each foot and each hand (figures given of hands and feet from photographs, figs. 1, 2, and 3). (b) Case of four members of family of eleven chilnren, one with sixth digit on one hand, two with sixth digit on one foot, one with sixth digit on each foot and each hand, (ir) Six cases of additional thumb on one hand, (d) Three cases, two of them brothers, of additional little finger on one hand. (e) Three cases of additional toe on one foot. (/) Case of one hand with seven or eight digits, approaching condition of double hand (fig. 5, from a sketch). (2) Cases of increase in the number of digits with heredi- tary origin, (g) Case in which increase in number of digits was transmitted through at least four generations; full family history, the condition variously transmitted or not trans- mitted, in one line re-appearing after two generations; in another line a digit added in each generation, first on one hand, then other hand, then one foot, then on other foot. (h) Case of additional thumb re-appearing after at least two generations. (/) Case of additional digit on one hand, with three phalanges and metacarpal bone, and additional digit