REFERENCES TO PAPERS IN ANATOMY. 10 and ligament completing the arch. Fig. 3, anterior extremity of cat, showing median nerve and brachial artery passing under the arch. Figs. 4 and 5, humerus of kitten at birth; fig. 6, same at fifth week after birth, showing the development of the supra-condyloid arch. Notes of the occurrence of the supra-condyloid process in man in nine subjects. Notes of the same in four subjects in Dr. Barclay’s collection, Museum R.C.S., Edin. Notes on the Process as regards situation, length, and form; symmetry; sex and age. Its relation to the arteries. Relation to the median nerve. Relation to muscles and the region. Note on the Internal Intermuscular Septum. In- ternal brachial band. Relation of the process to the humerus. Rudimentary ridge usually present in position in which supra- condyloid process occurs, concealed by brachialis anticus muscle, and giving origin to tendinous fibres. Comparative Anatomy. Examination of the parts in the Cat; nerve and bloodvessels, muscles, bone and development of the arch. Variety in a cat, the bony arch mostly repre- sented by a fibrous band. Dissection of the parts in a Lion. Dissection of the parts in an Ichneumon, the median nerve alone passing through the foramen. (C) On the Varieties of the Arteries of the Arm. 1. Varieties in the muscular relations. 2. Deviation of the artery from its usual course, with and without the presence of a supra-condyloid process. Supra-condyloid fibrous arch without a bony process, the nerve and artery deviating and passing under the arch. 3. High division of the brachial artery. Relative position of the two trunks, as noted in twenty arms, with surgical appreciation. 14. On the Fascia of Scarpa. (.Monthly Journal of Medical Science, Edinburgh, 1854.) Contents.-—Description of the true connection of this fascia, and of the method of dissection by which these can be demonstrated. Notice of common error in describing its connections at the groin. True origin from fascia lata at Poupart’s ligament. Relation to the true superficial fascia of