109 PIES AND PUDDINGS. with flour, and place the paste upon it. Flour the rolling pin with the hand. Roll from you and to one side until the paste is the right size. It must be much larger than the plate. In the centre cut a slit about half an inch long. Cover the pie, having the paste “fulled" on, as it shrinks in the baking. The oven must be hot at first, and after the first fifteen minutes the draughts must be closed. A mince pie will require one hour to bake, and an apple pie fifty minutes. Peach, and nearly all other fruit pies, require the same time. Mince Pie Meat.—Boil a beef tongue, weighing six pounds, and six pounds of the vein of a round of beef (these should just simmer). After skinning the tongue, chop it and the beef very fine, and add five pounds of beef suet, chopped fine ; five pounds of stoned raisins, three of dried currants, one and a half of citron, cut fine; nine of sugar, one and a half pints of molasses, two quarts of the liquor in which the meat was boiled, one quart of brandy, one pint of white wine, a cupful of salt, half a cupful of cinnamon, one- fourth of a cupful of cloves, one-fourth of a cupful of allspice, three nutmegs, a table-spoonful of mace. Put all in a large pan, and let stand over night. Put what you wish to bake in another pan with half as much stewed and sweetened apple as you have meat, and let it stand one hour. Put the remainder of the meat in a jar. Cover with a paper dipped in brandy, and then cover tightly, to exclude the air. Set in a cool place for future use. Squash Pies.—Five pints of stewed and strained squash, two quarts of boiling milk, one and a half nutmegs, four teaspoonfuls of salt, five cupfuls of sugar, nine eggs, four table-spoonfuls of Sicily Madeira, and two of rose-water. Gradually pour the boiling milk on the squash, and stir con- tinually. Add the nutmeg, rose-water, and sugar. When cold, add the eggs, well beaten; and just before the mixture is put in the plates, add the Madeira. Butter deep plates,