OF THE PERICARDIUM. 54 Saints, were all busy in the dispute; for which they must have been burnt, every soul of them, at the stake, had they done this in ridicule; but they proceeded in this matter with the most serious intentions in the world, and with the.utmost gravity *. The whole truth concerning w ater in the pericardium is, that you find water there whenever at any time you find it in any of the other cavities of the body. If a person have la-, boured under a continued weakness, or have been Jong diseased, if a person have lain long on his death- bed, if the body have been long kept after death, there is both a condensation of the natural halitus in all the parts of the body, and an exudation of thin lymph from every vessel; there is water found in every cavity, from the ventricles of the brain to the cavity of the ankle joint, and so in the pericardium among the rest. Bui if you open any living animal as a Dog, or if you open suddenly the body of a suicide, or a criminal who lias been just hanged, not a drop of * The shocking indecencies of their reasonings on this subject I will not condescend to draw out from the obscurity of that barbarous idiom in which was delivered: “ Sed non cogar hue me conferre. Fateor enim nativam Christi temperiem nihil pravorum humcrum produxisse, quia perfectissima; at a causis externis, vigiliis, cruciatibus, itineribus, vulneribus et mille tormenfis quid non prater consuetam natura diyinae perfectionem productum credimus ? Ad hxc sano. sensu id accipiendum, nihil pravorum humorum in corpore Christi generatum.” Bartholini Epistola, p. 299.— “ laque de Salvatore innoxie dixeris, quern scimus manducasse, bibisse, dormivisse, ambulasse et quid non egisse, ut se hominum cunctis actionibus, quae secundum naturam sunt, submitteret: sputum emisit, quum luto misceret ad curan- dum caecum, et sudavit ingruente martyrio, et sine dubio non parum seri in thorace collegit, quod, aperto post mortem latere^ ©manavit.” Bartholini Epis tola, p. 300,