FRENCH AND ENGLISH CULINARY DICTIONARY. BEING A VALUABLE GUIDE TO COOKS AND OTHERS INTERESTED IN THE ART OF COOKERY, harles Herman Senn.The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: (001(£11LEEBSCraOKEffiP v, a \ r? r* \,PRACTICAL GASTRONOMYDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21528470PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY V AND CULINARY DICTIONARY A being VALUABLE (If IDE TO COOKS AND OTHERS IX THE ART OF COOKERY INTERESTED CONTAINING- Sftetcbes anb Quotations of Culinary literature A COMPLETE MENU COMPILER AND REGISTER OF MOST KNOWN DISHES IN ENGLISH AND FRENCH with PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS on the same BY CHARLES HERMAN SENN INSPECTING and consulting chef de cuisine, national training school of cookery distinguished with the grand decoration OF ‘ LE CORDON rouge MEMBER OF THE ACADEMIE DE CUISINE, PARIS, GOLD MEDALLIST MEMBER OF THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCES AND ARTS, MANUFACTURES, PARIS SECOND EDITION |lublislKi) bg SPOTTISWOODE & CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE, LONDON 181)4/*preface. Having devoted a large portion of my life to the stu y and praetice of the various branches oi the art o Cookery—which period includes several years of prachea experience in some of the first culinary establishments, both in England and on the Continent-the experience thus gained has led me to the conclusion that many things, both new and useful, remain to be added to the numerous manuals of the Culinary Art already in existence. . , I therefore venture to offer the following pages to the public, in the hope that they may prove interesting and valuable to all, especially to those who are engaged in the business of catering. Of the numerous books on Cookery which have been recently given to the public-many excellent m their way-the majority lack one very essential point, viz : an explanation of the longue da cuisine, including the numerous French phrases and technical terms now m constant use, but which are seldom properly understood. It is to enable those engaged in the practice or super- intendence of high-class Cookery to compose a menu, and to give each dish its correct name—whether in English or French—that this book has been written. I have always held the opinion, that in cases where it is thought necessary to give French names to the dishes, this should be done as concisely as possible, by the use of that peculiar French which is the language A4 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY of cookery. I have therefore given the names of the various plats in the “Menu Compiler and Register of Dishes,’’ to which I have appended comprehensive descriptions. The headings to each list of the various kinds of comestibles have been given in French and English. This has been done in order to assist the inexperienced to compile a bill of fare correctly, and to enable them to supersede the French names (often ridiculously spelt), by intelligible English ones. The Vocabulary of Terms used in Cookery contains nearly a thousand words and phrases used in the art. These are translated and explained; and details of the origin and history of the more interesting are also given. With a view to rendering this work as complete as possible, a series of two hundred Specimen Menus has been inserted—in English, French, and other languages. These include examples of fixed-price luncheons, dinners, Ac., such as are served in London clubs, hotels, and restaurants. A few Classical Menus will interest students of history. A list of quotations from the works of standard authors is also given, which will, it is hoped, be found useful in the compilation of menus for special occasions. Although this work is not put forward as a book of culinary recipes, I have inserted many directions for the composition of various dishes, &c., which I trust will prove a boon to the housewife. As these will be found thoroughly “workable,” they will yield a tempting variety of simple, but appetising, nutritious, and elegant dishes, well within the scope of domestic cookerj\PREFACE The object of this book is to present* to the reader an Oracle of Gastronomy; a culinary guide for every- day reference; a vocabulary of English and foreign terms used in cookery ; as well as a collection of epigrams and quotations bearing on the art; and a few historical sketches relating to it. I therefore trust that it will prove a help to advocates of the School of French Cookery, a gastronomic treat to the gourmet, a valuable book of reference for hotel proprietors, managers, aud chefs, as well as for ladies who manage their own estab- lishments ; and that it may be found useful and accept- able to all householders. I have spared no pains to render this work as com- plete and accurate, and “ up to date,” as possible ; but, as new dishes and new ideas in regard to culinary preparations are coming to light almost daily, I cannot claim for my book that it is a complete and exhaustive treatise, although I have endeavoured as far as possible to make it one. I shall therefore always be thankful to any of my readers who may notify to me any errors or omissions which they may detect on its perusal. I also desire to thank the very able reader at Messrs. Spottiswoode & Co.’s (the Printers of the latter part of this work) for very many valuable suggestions. Chateau, Vevey : February 1892.ADVERTISEMENT TO THE SECOND EDITION. In issuing the Second Edition of this book I desire to express my best thanks for the manner in which it has been received by the Catering Fraternity, as well as others interested in the Art of Cookery. With the view of increasing its general utility the work has undergone careful revision. I wdsh also to assure my readers that I will not relax my endeavours to improve the work, by including any novelties and improvements in the Art which may come under my notice. % C. H. S. London: March 5, 1891.CONTENTS. (For Alphabetical Index see end of the Booh.) PAGE Preface 3 PART I. THE ART OF COOKERY, ANCIENT AND MODERN. Introductory 11 Sumptuous Feasts of Olden Times . . . . .27 The Tongue and the Sense of Taste . . . .32 PART II. THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN. Introductory 35 The Early Use of the Word Kitchen . . . .47 The Cook in Proverb .50 The Ten Cardinal Virtues for the professional Cook 51 Gastronomy in the form of an Aphorism . . .52 Brillat-Savarin’s Maxims put into Rhyme . . .54 Maxims for the Kitchen 57 Eating and Drinking of the Turks . . . .58 Chinese Diet and Custom 60 Culinary Telephone 63 PART III. HIGH-CLASS AND DOMESTIC COOKERY OF THE PRESENT TIME. Introductory 65 Notes on Boiling 71 Notes on Roasting 74PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 8 Notes on Stewing . . . . . . . Notes on Frying 77 Notes on Braising 79 Notes on Broiling and Grilling 81 Notes on Salads and Salad Dressing . . . .82 PART IV. MENU-COMPILER AND REGISTER OF DISHES. Hors-d’ceuvres proids—cold side-dishes . . .89 Potages—Soups 95 Poissons—Fish 109 Releves—Removes 126 Entrees Legeres—Light Entrees 135 Entrees Froides—Cold Entrees 144 Entrees de Veau—Entrees of Veal .... 148 Entrees de Bceuf—Entrees of Beef . . . .169 Entrees de l’Agneau—Entrees of Lamb . . . 188 Entrees de Mouton—Entrees of Mutton . . . 194 Entrees de Porc—Entrees of Pork .... 206 Entrees de Volaille—Entrees of Poultry . . . 212 Entrees de Gibier—Entrees of Game . . . .237 Rotis—Roasts 250 Legumes—Vegetables . . . . . . 255 Salades—Salads 284 Legumes Confits au Vinaigre, &c.—Pickled Vege- tables, &c 289 Sauces—Sauces 290 Entremets de Douceur—Sweet Dishes . . . 305 Poudings—Puddings . 305 Souffles et Omelettes—Souffles and Omelets . 308 Gateaux—Cakes . 309 Patisserie, &c.—Pastry, &c 310 Charlottes—Charlottes 312 Beignets, &c.—Fritters, &c. 313 Fruits au Riz, Grouts, &c.—Fruits with Rice, Crusts, &c 314 Blancmangers et Cremes—Blancmanges and Cream 316 Compotes de Fruits—Stewed Fruits . . . .316CONTENTS 9 PAGE G elees, &c.—Jellies, &c 317 Cremes Fouettees—Whipped Creams . . .319 Glaces—Ices 319 Entremets Savoureux, &c.—Savoury Dishes, &c. . 322 Dessert Fruits and Biscuits 336 Fromages—Cheeses 338 PART V. MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION. Introductory 341 Specimen Dinner Menus 347 Lenten Dinner Menus 373 Ball Supper Menus 376 Typical American Menus 388 Selection of Menus of Luncheons, Dinners, and Suppers 402 Menus in Various Languages 437 Humorous Menus 442 Ancient Menus 453 Notes on laying a Table 470 Notes on Carving 471 Wines (order of the serving of wines) . . .473 Notes on Wines for the Table 474 List of various Wines 475 PART VI. CLASSICAL BILL OF FARE QUOTATIONS 479 PART VII. FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES . . .485 PART VIII. CULINARY DICTIONARY. Vocabulary of Terms used in Cookery, . . . 5(i910 CONTENTS PART IX. PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. Soups 587 Fish 589 Made Dishes . . 541 Sauces, &c 645 Miscellaneous Savoury Dishes, &c 546 Sweet Dishes - . . .551 ILLUSTRATIONS. A design Illustrating the Art op Cookery and Dining • . Frontispiece Brillat-Savarin . . to face 56 Dr. William Kitchiner . „ 486 Antonin Careme „ 488 Louis Eustache Ude . . „ 492 Alexis Soyer .... „ 494 Charles E. Francatelli . „ 49S Alfred Suzanne . „ 500 Eugene Pouard » ‘ „ 502 Antoine A. Parmentier . „ 504PART I THE ART OF COOKERY Ancient and Modern. Although the traditions of classic cookery are almost effaced, there still remains sufficient record to afford some grounds for comparison, and he must be prejudiced who hesitates for a moment in awarding the laurels to the moderns. Cookery is eminently experimental, and our knowledge is increased through our daily experience and practice in the art. •Jean Clerc, speaking once of a celebrated cookery book, observes that the work contains receipts for “ some most extraordinary dishes and strange stews and ragouts, which would ruin one’s stomach and burn up the blood.” The Romans in their days excelled in tne culinary art, and we have been enabled to inherit from them and profit by the benefit of their expeiience, which means that we have surpassed them in the knowledge of 1PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 12 classical cookery without their extravagances. The characteristic of ancient cookery was profusion; the characteristic of modern cookery is delicacy and refinement. The only ancient sauce which seems to remain on record is, so far as we know, the one known to the Romans under the name of “ Garum”; it is made from the brine of anchovy-fish. This sauce is still used in Turkey as a sort of flavouring for their national dish called “Pilau.” All traces of Roman cookery as an art seem to have been lost about the fifth century ; but the monks soon revived the ancient art. They made cookery a study, wrote their experiences, and their records have been handed down to us. The name of Ccelius Apician, well connected with Roman cookery, is associated with the most ancient European work on cookery. Warner in his “ Antiquitates Culinarise,” 1791, gives some specimens of Roman cookery recipes : two of these show how the Roman cook of the Apician epoch used to dress a hog’s paunch, and how to manufacture “ sauce for a boiled chicken.” Another name known as that of a famous Roman epicure is “Trojan,” who, it is said, was the true godfather of the culinary manual. M. W. Carew Hazlitt, in his work on “ Old Cookery Books and Ancient Cuisine,” gives that full credit to the ancient Roman Catholic clergy, which has not always been accorded to them, of being largely instrumental in modifying the early barbarism of the table and of encouraging the study of gastronomy. Their secludedTHE ART OF COOKERY 13 life, he thinks, led them “ to seek some compensation for the loss of the other wordly pleasures in those of the table.” In the early days the choice of animal food was somewhat coarse as well as exclusive, as at that time the whale was in considerable requisition for gastronomic purposes. It was found on the royal table as well as on that of the Lord Mayor of London, who had then evidently, as now, a weakness for culinary delicacies. The “piece de resistance,” I read, at a banquet which Wolsey gave some of his official acquaintances in 1509 was a young porpoise, and it was customary for such to be taken to the banqueting hall whole, and carved by the officer in attendance. In the fifteenth century the fist of dishes in vogue was augmented, and amongst others in regular use were fish soup, wine soup, and ale soup. The cannibals of the ancient world (Anthropophagi)* greedily devoured the carcasses of their fellow creatures ; while the inoffensive “ Cabri ” (a Scythian tribe) found both food and drink in the agreeable nut of the Pontic tree; the “ Lotophagi ” lived entirely on the fruit of the lotus tree ; the savage “ Troglodyte ” esteemed a living serpent the most delicate of all morsels while the capricious palate of the “ Zi'guntini ” preferred the ape to everything. The Romans usually began their feasts with eggs, and ended them with fruits ; hence Ab ovo usque ad mala. During the luxurious period of their empire,14 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY they took five meals a day; which consisted of the following: a breakfast (jentaculum); a dinner (prcindiuvi), which was a light meal without any formal preparation; between dinner and supper they had a kind of tea as we would call it (merenda); a supper (ccepa or ccenci); this formed their great meal, and generally consisted of two courses, the first of meats, the second of a sort of dessert ; another meal was served after supper: this was called comissatio, something delicious or revelling. The dishes which the Romans held in the highest estimation were : pheasants * (phasianice, “ ex Phaside Colchido fluvio ”), nightingales (luscinice), thrushes (turdi), ducks, geese, sausages, and puddings. The meat of the Porpoise, a marine animal, was dressed in various ways, salted, roasted, and stewed. The flesh of it was hard and rancid, and, although now quite unknown, it is said that it was sold in the markets of most Portuguese towns in the last century. The swan was also a most favourite dish in the time of our ancestors. At a dinner given by the Earl of Northumber- land in the year 1512 it is said that the number con- sumed amounted to twenty. Table-cloths were used at Norman feasts, and the long ends were used as napkins ; hence their condition would scarcely allow of a second use. Later on these were discarded. Forks were not known at that time, but bills of fare showed some variety and taste as well as * From phasianvs, a bird coming from the river Phasis, in Colchid, south of Caucasus.THE ART OF COOKERY 15 a great deal of costliness. Their cookery was such an, improvement on that of their predecessors in the island that the French and Norman dishes drove the Saxon tongue and table into an almost vulgar position. The art was so much esteemed that monarchs even granted estates on condition that the holder thereof should, through his cook, prepare a certain dish at stated periods, and set it before the king. The Norman conqueror William bestowed several portions of land on these highly favoured domestics “ the cooks.” This shows us how sensible our fore- fathers were, as at that time the talent of knowing how to cook was so rare that it was considered a high dis- tinction, so much so that the king’s first and second cooks were titled “ Esquires ” by their office. . Under the Normans the celebrated boar’s head be- came a royal dish, and its progress from the kitchen to the banqueting hall was under the escort of a guard, and heralded by trumpeters. There is no doubt that our forefathers had firm faith in good cooking, that is, of course, as good as it could be at the time. It would, however, be unjust to draw any comparison be- tween the cooking of the days of yore and to-day. But it was the best they could get, and that perhaps might compai-e favourably with some of the cookery with which many of us moderns are familiar. The saying, “ God sent meat, and the devil sent cooks,” is a maxim which up to the present has not been success- fully disputed; and if, at occasional exceptions, this may have been true, there is, owing to the intelligencePRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 1(> of the present age, no longer any need for the old sneer of this dyspeptic cynic. The ancient Britons have more than once been com- pared with the New Zealanders. They were, perhaps, more uncivilised and quite as ignorant, and their absti- nence from the flesh of hares and poultry and, in the northern parts of the island, from fish, bespeaks a race which lacked at once industry and knowledge. Indeed, it is by no means certain that we do not wrong the New Zealanders by suggesting their possible inferiority to the Britons, seeing that the latter are strongly suspected of being guilty of the most revolting canni- balism. They were clever enough to brew mead and ale, but wine and civilisation were brought to them by their enemies, the Roman invaders, who, for some reasons, they might have welcomed as “ our friends the enemy.” Their seats were skins or bundles of hay flung on the ground, their table was a low stool, around which British chiefs sat. They ate but twice a day, their last meal being the more important one. They used to tear their food with teeth and nails, or hacked at it with a wretched knife, as bad as anything of the sort now in common use in gaol. The Anglo- Saxons introduced four meals a day : they ate good solid joints of flesh meat, boiled, baked, or broiled. It would seem that in those days cooks were not of such an illustrious guild as that which they subse-TFIE ART OF COOKERY 17 quently formed. A cook among the Anglo-Saxons was valued very little higher than the calf he cut up into scallops. He was a slave, and was as unceremoniously bequeathed in his owner’s will as any goods or chattels. At the Anglo-Saxon feasts men and women sat together as they do now, which is a mark of civilisation, and pronounced to be very refining. Turkey is the only European nation that does not follow this capital example. When the Normans came to England, they brought w'ith them greater comfort in regard to cooking as well as eating. Much of the exquisite cuisine of the eighteenth century is due to that famous epicure “ Regent Or- leans.” The “ pain a la d’Orleans ” was the invention of the Regent himself ; the “ filets de lapereau a la Berri ’ ’ were invented by his abandoned daughter, the Duchess de Berri, whose suppers were the best and most profligate in Paris. The “ filets de volaille a la Bellevue ” were invented by the Marquise de Pom- padour in the Chateau of Bellevue for the little sup- pers of the King. The “ petites bouchees a la Reine ” owe their origin to Marie, the wife of Louis XV., and nearly all the entrees bearing the name of Bayonnaises ” were invented by the Marechal Due de Richelieu. The French Revolution made a mournful gap in the annals of cooking. The stoic’s fare,, the radish and the egg of the severe Spartan, and the black bread of the Germans of the Middle Ages were then in vogue,PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 18 and for three years this Spartan regime continued. Happily for mankind and gourmands, the traditions of the French kitchen were preserved, even during this depressing period, and under Napoleon the art revived again. This was signalised by the publication of the first number of the “ Almanach des Gourmands,” which the late Duke of York called the most delightful book ever printed. The author and editor of it was “ Grimod de la Reyniere,” a quaint humourist as well as an able chef. This is what he says, amongst other things, con- cerning cooks and cookery: “ The finger of a good cook should alternate perpetually between the stew- pan and his mouth, and it is thus in tasting every moment, his Ragouts, that he can hit upon the precise medium so as to make him a competent judge of his dainty dishes.” It seems, however, that some did not appreciate these high-class French dishes as did others, for I note in the work entitled “ Antiquitates Culinarise,” which was published in 1791, that French cookery was called “ the art of spoiling good meat ” and “ the art of making bad meat eatable.” The Scotch at this time were, according to a writer, very conservative in their cookery and plain in their living. It is said that only their fish, oatmeal, and whiskey kept them alive.THE ART OF COOKERY 19 At about this time, too, we are informed that the kitchen staff of a noble establishment ” consisted of-^ A yeoman and groom for the cellar. A yeoman and groom for the pantry. A yeoman and groom for the buttery. A yeoman for the ewry. A yeoman purveyor. A master cook, under-cooks, and pastry-man. A yeoman and groom for the scullery, one to be in the larder and slaughterhouse. An achator, or buyer. Three errand boys and three kitchen boys. The most interesting cookery book of ancient publi- cation is one written by Monsieur Marin in the year 1738. It was called “ Les Dons de Comus.” M. Marin was cook to the Duchesse de Chaulnes. The author, in treating of the science of cookery, says: “ The science consists in decomposing and in render- ing easy of digestion the viands, in extracting from them light and nourishing juices, and in so mixing them together that no one flavour shall predominate, but that all shall be harmonised and blended.” The first cookery book in a modern language was published in Madrid in 1521. Spain has therefore the honour of being the pioneer in this direction, and claims to the merit of having improved and extended the science which recognises the palate, stomach, and digestion. It is, however, supposed that an English- man, a Mr. Alexander Neckham, wrote a hook on practical cookery in the twelfth century, and no doubt several quaint volumes followed during the succeeding20 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY centuries. Italy comes next to Spain for developing the culinary art; but France, although now the nurse of all modern cooks, then was in a state of comparative dark- ness with regard to cookery. In 1569 such articles as “ simnels, buns, cakes, biscuits, comfits, caraways, and cracknels ” were on sale in the bakers’ and confectioners’ shops in Great Britain. In 1580 the delicacies of the Italian table were in- troduced into Paris, and from that time the French made rapid progress in the culinary art, and thus soon surpassed their Italian masters. The first practical cookery book of France was published at Bouen in 1692. Many of its recipes are curious, but nevertheless useful. The frequency with which capers are introduced is- extraordinary, the more so as they rarely make their appearance in modern French cookery books, except occasionally in entrees or ragouts. The taste for foreign dishes and higher dishes in cookery (French) made its appearance in England in the seventeenth century, and the cookery books of that period reflected this by publishing recipes under such titles as “ To make Portugal dishes,” “ To make Lady Abergavenny’s cheese ” and “ The Countess of Rutland’s receipt for making the rare Banbury cake,” which was as much praised as her daughter’s pudding. The hog barbecued was roasted whole, stuffed with spice, and basted with Madeira wine. The bill of fare at this time consisted in the month of April of the following :—THE ART OF COOKERY 21 Green Geese, or Veal and Bacon. Haunch of Venison, roasted. A Lumber Pie. Rabbits and Tarts. Second Course: Cold Lamb. Neat’s Tongue Pie. Cold Salmon. Lobsters and Prawns. Asparagus. The following bill of fare was served in a noble- man’s family in the month of April 1782 :— Spring Soup, removed with Mackerel. Lamb’s ears au Befhem, Tanfey Pudding. Pigeon Comport, Fennel Sauce. Greens, Broccoli, Oyster Sauce. Leg of boiled Lamb, Loin fried. Chickens boiled, Tongue. Rabbits fricassee Brown. Rocom-bole Spinach. Savory Sauce, Plain Butter. Soup Vermicelli, removed with. Crimped Cod fish. Cotelettes & la Maintenon. Lemon Pudding. Jelly, Cheese Cakes. The first really practical and useful work on English cookery, published in 1602, was called the “ Queen’sPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 22 Closet Opened.” Some ten years after, another work was published, called the “ Ladies’ Companion,” which contained some very curious instructions as to a lady’s conduct at the dinner-table. The following are a few examples :— “ Do not lean your elbows on the table.” “ Discover not by any ravenous gesture your angry appetite nor fix your eyes too greedily on the meat before you, as if you would devour more than your throat can swallow.” • “ Do not eat spoon-meat so hot that the tears stand in your eyes, or that thereby you betray your intolerable greediness.” “ Fill not your mouth so full that your cheeks shall swell like a pair of Scotch bagpipes.” “ It is uncivil to rub your teeth in company, or pick them after meals with your knife or otherwise.” The following advice is given to children : — “ Avoid smacking your lips in eating.” “ Forbear putting both hands to your mouth at once, nor gnaw yonr meat, but cut it handsomely, and eat sparingly.” “ Let your nose and hands be always clean.” “ When you have dined or supped, rise from the table and carry your trencher or plate with you, doing your obeisance to the company.” The following works give some insight into English23 THE ART OF COOKERY cookery at their respective periods, and they reflect great credit upon their authors : — Sir Kenelm Digby’s Cookery, published in 1069. Hartman’s Cookery, and Description of an Engine to cook without wood, candles, coals or oil, published in 1682. Marnitte’s Perfect English Cook, published in 1686. The compleat Cook’s Guide, published in 1701. The Queen’s Cookery, published in 1709. Incomparable Secrets in Cookery, published in 1710. Carter’s System of Cookery, published in 1730. Dr. King’s Art of Cookery in Verses, published in 1740. The French are justly famed for their skill and taste in culinary matters; they know how to prepare a nourishing and palatable dish so that but little alcoholic stimulants are required. This probably accounts for the saying, “ As many Frenchmen as many cooks.” Yet surrounded as' they are by the most delicious wines and liqueurs, offering every temptation to render drunkenness attractive, it is perhaps true, as the saying goes, that a tipphng Frenchman is a rara avis. England, although now greatly advanced in the art of cookery, was, according to early traditions, at one time very much behind. From the reign of Queen Elizabeth up to the time of the Revolution, the style was undoubtedly substantial, and cookery in general was coarse and heavy. In Queen Anne’s time, how- ever, the art of cookery was much improved. During the reign of Queen Elizabeth the larder’sPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ‘24 best provision used to consist principally of chines of beef and pork, which were sent to the dinner-tables smoked and cold.- Remains of such joints were sent up the next day and washed down with foaming tankards of ale. The pages of Pope throw an important light on the cookery of his time, as well as on the social charac- teristics of the epoch. “Preach as I phase, I doubt our curious men Will choose a pheasant still before a hen. Yet hens of Guinea feed as good, I hold, Except you eat the feathers green and gold Of carps and mullets, why prefer the great, Though cut in pieces as my lord can eat ? Yet for small turbots such esteem profess, Because God made these large, the others less. Oldfield, with more than harpy throat endued, Cries, ‘ Send me, gods ! a whole hog barbecued.’ ” “ The Connoisseur,” published in 1754, gives reference to the quality of cooking at the Star and Garter. “ They drove to the ‘ Star and Garter ’ to regale on Macaroni, or toyed with ortolans at White’s or Pontac’s. At Dolly’s and Horsman’s beefsteaks were eaten with gill ale.” “ The art of Cookery,” by a lady, published in 17G5, contains several useful recipes. The “ Cook’s Oracle,” by Dr. Kitchener, published in 1817, was also a very popular work. The best of cookery books which were published at that time was undoubtedly that by25 THE ART OF COOKERY M. Ude. Louis Eustache Ude was an eminent French cook: he superintended the kitchens of Louis XVI. and the Earl of Sefton. The cookery of England- is not, generally speaking, a thing of luxury and art, but for a plain and at the same time substantial meal there can be nothing more agreeable than a well-cooked “ English dinner.” The patriotic Briton has a right to be proud of Thackeray’s lines, which run as follow :— “ Dear Lucy, you know what my wish is. I hate all your Frenchified fuss ; Your silly Entrees and made dishes Were never intended for us. But a plain leg of mutton, my Lucy, I pray thee get ready at three. Have it smoking and tender and juicy, And what better meat can there be ? ” There are, however, not two men who will agree as to what constitutes a good dinner. The father of the late Earl of Dudley, one of the most noted gourmands of his time, used to say, “ A good soup, a small turbot, a neck of venison, duck- lings with green peas, or chicken with asparagus, and an apricot tart is a dinner for an emperor.” I certainly agree with him, but should think that many would be quite contented with less, and if we never dined off anything worse than Lucy’s leg of mutton, “smoking and tender and juicy,” we ought not to complain.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 26 Who shall say what stupendous issues in the world’s history have not turned upon good or bad cookery ? It has always been a reproach to the English that they are behind the rest of the civilised world in respect of cookery. A witty Frenchman once spoke of the English as “ a nation with fifty religions and one sauce.” I do not think they are as bad as that, and if there is still some reproach clinging to their nation in this respect, it is proved and admitted by competent judges that a first- rate dinner in England is, beyond all comparison, better than a dinner of the same class in any other country for the following simple reason, that English gold can buy the best cooks, just as it can purchase the best singers. The greatest cuisinier of his day, L. E. Fde, wrote as follows : “I will venture to affirm that cooking in England, when well done, is superior to that of any other country of the world.” There is certainly nothing in the French cookery to equal an English baron of beef, the noble sirloins, nor haunches, legs, saddles and loins of Southdown mutton. The principal articles of food, in the quality of which the French surpass the English, are poultry and veal; but such are the skill and science of their cooks that, with worse mutton, worse beef, and worse lamb than the English, they produce better made dishes of every kind.27 THE ART OF COOKERY Feasts and Epicures of Olden Times. An old cook gives the following as the ordinary bill of fare for a gentleman’s table about Candlemas. The first course consisted of cock-a-leekie, a Chatham pudding, a fricassee of chicken, a leg of mutton, all garnished with barberries ; the second, the more sub- stantial, included a chine of mutton, a chine of veal, a lark pie, a pullet larded, a pullet plain, all garnished writh slices of orange ; the third, woodcocks, a couple of rabbits, asparagus, a Westphalia gammon; the fourth, two orange tarts, a bacon tart, an apple tart, a tart of Bon Chretien pears, a dish of pippins, and a dish of pearmains. Still earlier (1470), at a tremendous banquet given by the Earl of Warwick to George Neville, his brother, upon his being raised to the dignity of Arch- bishop of York, the provisions are on a truly Gargantuan scale. This is the authentic list of material used on the occasion : — 300 quarters of wheat 300 tuns of ale 104 tuns of wine 1 tun of spic’d ale 10 fat oxen 0 wild bulls 300 pigs 1,004 wethers 400 hernsies 200 pheasants 500 partridges 4.000 woodcocks 400 plovers 100 curlews 100 quails 1.000 eggets 228 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 300 hoga 300 calves 3,000 geese 3,000 capons 155 hot venison pasties 1.000 dishes of jellies 4.000 cold venison pasties 2.000 hot custards 4.000 cold custards 400 tarts 300 pikes 200 rees 4,000 bucks, does, and roebucks 100 peacocks 200 cranes 200 kids 2.000 chickens 4.000 pigeons 4,000 rabbits 204 bitterns 4,000 ducks 300 breams 8 seals 4 porpoises It is not surprising to learn that such a vast pantry required for its working 1,000 cooks, 62 kitcheners, and 515 scullions. Massinger, in “ The City Madam,” gives us incidentally a glimpse of the extravagance of material of which our forefathers were guilty. The old steward grumbles— “ Men may talk of country Christmases and Court gluttony, Their thirty pound buttered eggs, their pies of carps’ tongues, Their pheasants dressed with ambergris, the carcasses Of three fat wethers bruised for gravy, to Make sauce for a single peacock.” Yet all that, he says, is nothing—merely “ fasts compared with the City feasts. It is enough to make one pause and to provoke to an nvective anent the decadence of all that is virtuous to read that in the thirteenth century a rabbit and amb each cost the same, fourpence to wit; that a urbot was to be obtained for sixpence, a salmon fo: three shillings, a29 THE ART OF COOKERY fat hog for three shillings and fourpence, and a fat sheep for one shilling and twopence. In those halcyon days twenty eggs could be bought for a penny, you could indulge in a swan for fourpence, and wash the banquet down with ale at three halfpence the gallon ! Amongst the dishes of the middle ages we find mention, in a catalogue of extras suitable for a grand and formal repast, of “ an umble pie.” This dish, provided for those “ below the salt,” was composed of the “ umbles,” or entrails, of the deer, and anti- quaries claim to have found in it the origin of the colloquial phrase of to-day— “ to eat humble pie.” But it is among the ancients that we must look for the really heroic days of feasting and eating. In quite early time the appetite seems to have been simply voracious, unstimulated as it was by the refinements of luxury to which the Romans attained. Theogenes and Milo are both credited with having devoured an ox at a single sitting; Astydamas of Miletus ate for supper portions quite as large ; Canubis, of Lydia, is not the only potentate believed to have been guilty of cannibalism. To come to later times, Fuller relates the case of one Nicholas Wood who, in providing for a feast, was considered a culinary artist, and rose in importance. To be indifferent to the description of food served up was to wound this personage in his tenderest feelings. The Duke of Wellington lost the services of a good chef for no other reason than that he was careless regarding the quality of his meals. “ I cannot stay with him,” said the wounded artist.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 30 “ I cook him a dinner fit for the king, he say nothing ! 1 go out, and leave the dinner to ze stupid cookmaid —again he say nothing.” A more pointed rebuke was administered to the Duke by the celebrated epicure Cambaceres, who invited him to a banquet, and, piqued at his not praising the excellence of the cuisine, asked his opinion of some particular dish. “ It is very good,” was the reply, “ but, to tell the truth, I hardly know what I eat.” The disgusted epicure cried, “ then why did you come to dine with me ? ” Besides the indifferent and the abnormal, some persons possess what may be called a diseased appetite. Tastes differ widely regarding food. Many persons would not object to partake of the meal King James said he would provide “ for the devil if he asked him to dinner”—pork and “ a pipe for digestion.” I will not dwell on cannibal banquets, nor on the peculiar method of the interment of a husband’s ashes practised by the Queen of Mausolus. The old “ fire-eaters,” so common at country fairs a generation ago, professed to find a supporting diet in fuel and flames. Among the many attacks made upon Dr. Johnson after his acceptance of a pension from the Government was one purporting to be written by a famous “ fire-eater ” at Bartholomew Fair. He complains that Dr. Johnson has been rewarded for “ writing well,” and Sheridan for “ speak- ing well,” but that he himself has received nothing for “ eating well.” This unappreciated genius declares that his favourite mess is “ brimstone and fire,” and that if31 THE ART OF COOKERY he came into a kitchen where a sirloin was roasting he would “ eat up the fire and leave the beef.” This taste was even stranger than that of the “ stone-eater” mentioned at Avignon. His keepers professed to have discovered him on a desert island, where he was subsisting wholly upon “ large flints and such marbles and stones as he could make into a paste, which was to him a most surporting and wholesome food.” When brought to France he was induced to eat sparingly of raw meat, but refused bread and vegetables. Possessors of appetites like these might at least rely on being able to feed themselves cheaply, the stone-eater boai’ding himself more economically than the votary of tobacco— “ Who hith his roast-meat in a box, And on a pipe can dine.” As a rule, an appetite and the means of gratifying it are too often separated. An old Scotch nurse was wont to repeat the following lines as grace before meat “ Some have meat, But cannot eat; And some can eat, But have no meat ; But we have meat, And we can eat, And so the Lord be thankit.” Many prescriptions have been given for accommo- dating appetite and supply from Franklin’s famousPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 32 mess of gruel, with bread crumbled in it (which pro- fessed to he, like Sam Weller’s crumpets, so “filling at the price ”), down to the “ cheap living ” recipe of an American, who advised his readers to “ first eat two cents’ worth of dried apples; afterwards drink a quart of water to swell the apples.” The Tongue and the Sense of Taste. The tongue is not the only organ used in the enjoy- ment of the sense of taste, and alone it is scarcely capable of appreciating delicate flavours. The difference between salt and sugar when placed on the tongue is hardly perceptible, provided the tongue is not allowed to touch the roof of the mouth and the lips. Indeed, the act of the getting the full enjoyment of a flavour, commonly called smacking the lips, consists in bringing the tongue into contact with the roof of the mouth and the lips. By this act the substance to be tasted is spread over the surfaces of these parts, par- ticularly of the tongue, and mixed with the saliva. How this act produces taste is not exactly known ; but we do know that the tongue is covered with two33 THE ART OF COOKERY layers of skin—the lower one thick and filled with nerves, and the upper one thin and porous. The nerves in the lower skin are the nerves of taste, and probably are set into vibration by the substance tasted, very much as the exquisitely sensitive nerves of the ear by sound. At all events the sense is conveyed to the brain, where we involuntarily distinguish between pleasant and disagree- able tastes. The nerves, moreover, of the tongue are not all alike. In the tip of the tongue they are clustered to- gether more closely than at the back, and transfer to the brain a different sensation. For instance, a little powdered alum placed on the back of the tongue tastes sweet, whereas on the tip it tastes acid. The sense of taste is an almost certain guide to the wholesomeness of foods, and a monitor which warns us when we are in danger of swallowing any injurious or poisonous substance. Poisons, as a rule, are extremely disagreeable to the taste, and it requires an effort to overcome the natural repugnance to them. Hence it is that accidental poisoning so rarely occurs. In the case of foods we soon tire of a thing as a regular diet, and the taste craves a change. Here the whole system rebels against the monotony of diet be- cause no one food is likely to contain all the elements of nutrition required by the body for the exercise of its functions, and soon the elements which are in excess cloy upon the taste, because the system is already sup-34 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY plied with them while we crave the foods containing substances which the system lacks. A change is then demanded by Nature, and made manifest by the sense of taste. If the change cannot be made, Nature shows her dis- approval by causing a loss of appetite, or a repugnance to the condemned article of diet. Again, in the case of foods which are much concen- trated, or have a strong flavour, like preserved fruits or syrups, the taste soon becomes dulled to the pleasure of their sweetness, because the delicate nerves which con- vey the impression of sweetness to the brain become fatigued, and fail to respond to the exciting cause.35 PART II THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN The word “ cook ” is derived from the Anglo-Saxon, coc. Danish, Kok ; German, Koch ; French, cuisinier ; Italian, cuoco ; and Latin, cocus, coquus, from coqziere, to cook. The word “cock” has also the same deriva- tion in Great Britain, coc ; and in France also, coq. In Roman-Latin the Frenchman was Gallus, a Gaul, and, from some arrangement peculiar to the Romans, gallus is the Latin for “ cock.” The cook in Plautus is called “ Hominum Serva- tor,” the server of mankind ; and by Mercier “ un medecinqui guerit radicalement deux maladies mortelles, la faim et la soif ” (a doctor who radically cures two mortal complaints, viz. hunger and thirst). In William the Norman Conqueror’s time the cook was styled “ Magnus Coquus.” In 1248 the brother of Cardinal Otto, the Pope’s legate, officiated as cook, and was then called” Magister Coquinus.” In the times of our forefathers, cooks were thoughtPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 36 a great deal more of than they are now ; the rarity of their talents was so well understood that, besides receiv- ing a very considerable compensation, they were titled “ Esquire ” by their office. Their important posts were always held as situations of high trust and confidence; so that “ magni coqui ” (master kitcheners) have filled positions of consider- able dignity, in their time, in the palaces of kings and princes. William the Conqueror bestowed several portions of land upon these highly favoured domestics, the Co- quorum Propositus and Coquus Eegius. Robert Argillon, a cook, had a manor bestowed on him for the services he rendered. Domesday’s Book refers to this honour as follows :— “ Robert Argillon holdeth one carucate of land in Addington in the county of Surrey by the service of making one mess in an earthen pot in the kitchen of our lord the King on the day of his coronation, called ‘ de la groute,’ i.e. a kind of plum-porridge or water- gruel with plums in it. This dish is still served up at the royal table at coronations by the lord of the said manor of Addington.” At the coronation of King George IV., Court of Claims, July 12, 1820, the petition of the Arch- bishop of Canterbury, which was presented by Sir G. Nayler, claiming to perform the service of presenting a dish of “ de la groute ” to the King at the banquet, was considered by the Court, and decided to be allowed.THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN 37 One of the great triumphs of the ancient cooks was to serve up a whole pig, boiled on one side and roasted on the other. The guests tried in vain to detect the place where the knife had separated the animal, or how it was contrived to stuff it with an oho composed of thrushes and other birds, slices of sow, hens, and highly spiced minced meat, the whole flavoured with a rich juice or sauce. These old cooks could with a vegetable counterfeit the taste of fish or flesh. It is reported that in an expedition against the Scythians in the winter, and at a great distance from the sea, the King of Bithynia had a violent longing for a pilchard. His cook cut a turnip in exact imitation of its shape, then fried it in oil, salted and well powdered it with the grains of a dozen black poppies, and his Majesty’s taste was so exquisitely deceived that he praised the root to his guests as an excellent fish. This seeming transmutation of vegetables into fish is a great art, but in these days it appears to have gone out of practice; it might with advantage be revived, especially in countries where much cheap and wholesome food is lost or wasted, because an adequate knowledge of cookery is wanting. The ancient cooks sent almost to the ends of the earth for choice viands which were not obtainable at home. Those of Athens, for instance, procured from England their oysters, of which the finest came from the neighbourhood of Sandwich. Juvenal recoidsPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 38 that the epicure Montanus could tell by his first bite at an oyster whether it was English or not. “ Man is a cooking animal.” Such was the defini- tion of the human species which Boswell on a certain occasion gave to Edwin Burke. “ The beasts,” continued Boswell, “have memory, judgment, and all the faculties and passions of our own mind in a certain degree, but no beast is a cook.” Would that we could supplement that dictum of old Dr. Johnson’s trumpeter by saying that the reverse holds true. But what man is there who can lay his hand on his heart and solemnly declare that something in the above is not true ? What one of us is there who has not had cause to anathematise his cook, and in a moment of righteous wrath felt a fiendish desire to inflict upon that functionary the doom of Richard Rose, the Bishop of Rochester’s murderous cook, who was “ boiled ” to death at Smithfield ? Who shall say what stupendous issues in the world’s history have not turned upon good or bad cookery ? Most of us have heard of the famous black broth of Sparta, but few know, or are familiar with, its origin. “ I am not astonished,” exclaimed a native of Sybaris (the Pares of the Greek gourmand), after tasting it, “ that you Spartans are so fearless of death on the battle-field, since anyone in his senses would rather die than be compelled to live on such execrable food.” Bad cooking, then, may have been responsible for the Spartan courage.30 THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN Look, again, at Napoleon the Great. When he fought the disastrous battle of Leipsic he was suf- fering frightfully from indigestion caused by eating underdone meat (veal cutlets). Had those cutlets been properly “cooked, who knows but the issue of that three days’ fight might have been different ? This surely gives us sufficient reason for saying that bad cooking has had something to do in bringing about the collapse of the terrible bogey of Europe at that time. It is a most serious thing to reflect upon this, for good and evil lie in the hands of a cook! There are, I fear, but few so conscientious as pcor Vatel, the chef of the Prince de Conde, who ran him- self through the heart with his sword because the fish had not arrived in time for a great banquet, at which Louis XIV., le Grand Monarque himself, was to be present. On the “Manuel des Amphitryons ” Grirnod de la Reyniere observes compassionately that we enjoy the result of the works of our cooks, without considering the cost of the ineffable enjoyment they procure for us, and without reflecting that they only derive, from their incessant exertions, impaired health and means of sub- sistence that are often precarious and often moderate. “ They spend their best days in heat and obscurity, and their last in poverty too often bordering on destitution.” “ A good meal is one of the greatest enjoyments of40 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY human life,” and greater regard for those who prepare them ought, in many cases, to be shown; as the practice of cooking is attended with so many difficulties, so many disagreeable circumstances, and even dangers, it is but right that we should endeavour to render the situation of the' cook as comfortable and agreeable as possible. The chef, to whom the management of the kitchen is confided, is a great power in the house, for no one can be more instrumental to make the reputation of a house than the chef. He should be the ideal of per- fection to the other servants, who, after the manner of other employees, are more steadily praised into good conduct and discipline than scolded at. The chef should always commend his staff when they do well. Judicious approval will often convert an ordinary servant into a good one. How much force there is in the old couplet— “Be to their faults a little blind, And to their virtues very kind.” It is always wisest for a cook, man or woman, to be on pleasant terms with the servants of an establish- ment, especially with those who wait at table, as this will often help to please the diner, as he will know what dishes are liked, and whether the Tvork has pleased in the dining-room. There are many who have the supervision of waiting who frequently have it in their power, not only to contribute much towards the satis- faction of the guests, but also to contribute to the cook’s ideas, who is often at a loss as to how he can41 THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN please them. No cook should ever think any part of his business too trifling to be well done. Although no one has ever succeeded in pleasing all palates, because the tastes are almost as different as faces, yet palates must be studied by the cook, and if he be industrious and energetic he will with tact soon acquire a knowledge of the particular tastes of his patrons. The palate of a cook must be in the highest state of perfection, so that the least fault in cooking may be perceived in a moment. To succeed as some of our great chefs have suc- ceeded, a cook must not only be a cook, he must be a draughtsman, a sculptor, and a colourist ; and the time and taste which a cook spends on the arts of design to prepare food for the eye are so much time and taste diverted from the more important business of preparing food for the mouth. The most experienced artists in cookery cannot be certain of their work without “tasting.” The spoon of a good cook is continually passing from the stewpan to his tongue, and only frequent tasting the sauces &c. can discover to him what progress he makes, or enable him to season a soup or ragout with certainty of success. The constant fumes and heat of the stove neces- sitate frequent drinking to moisten the parched-up thi'oat; and this is done in most cases with the aid of alcoholic drinks, which often cause a man to lose his head, and, alas ! his taste, the organs of which are42 ■PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY thus quickly vitiated, and the palate becomes blunt. It cannot be too strongly advised to every cook to abstain while be is at work from drinks which are excitable ; there are so many harmless drinks, such as lemonade, gingerbeer, soda and milk, cold tea, coffee with milk, syrups with water, &c., which will quench the thirst in a hot kitchen, so that one need not avail himself of intoxicants. Common beer quenches the thirst only momentarily, and will soon give rise to a craving for more. Claret, although an intoxicant, is considered the best drink of any to allay thirst, but it must be mixed with plenty of water, when it is practically unintoxicating. Honesty, cleanliness, and economy should be the first items of a cook’s study. It is of the utmost im- portance in a cook to he honest ; and to obtain and preserve, in spite of the many temptations to which he is exposed, a character for firmness and spotless integrity, for this will help towards obtaining inde- pendence. “ Cleanliness is next to godliness ” is a very old saying, and cannot be more appropriately applied than here. Cleanliness and proper ventilation, to carry off smoke, smell, and steam, are the first con- siderations in a kitchen. The stove, which is, so to speak, the grand scene of action, should be so placed as to be accessible to light and ventilation. There are, however, many kitchens ivhere such is not the case, and the poor cook is continually bathed with his, or her, perspiration. No place has a greater need for cleanliness than the kitchen : it is here that dirt and untidiness43 THE COOK AND THE KITCHEN are much more conspicuous than in any other part of an establishment. Cleanliness is the most essential ingredient in the art of cooking, and at any sacrifice should be maintained in the kitchen. All connected with cookery should make it the rule to be economical, to endeavour to make the most of everything. There is perhaps no country where the study of economy in the kitchen is more needed than in England. Here we must take the French for our example. A French housewife will, say, with 40 francs be able to supply the table for a week with every comfort and luxury, and in addition save something out of the 40 francs, whilst the English housewife will hardly meet the wants with 40 shillings a week for meals of the plainest kind. The better a cook the more economy he will practise : this is one reason why there is more waste among the poor and middle classes, where the cooking is done by so-called plain cooks, who are ignorant of the art of cookery. These will throw away what an educated cook will turn into a seasonable dish. Time, however, will mend these wants, for already the schools have taken up the education of cookery, so that ere long children will learn as a part of their elementary education how to cook with economy. A little forethought in these matters will soon show the real meaning of economy. Scraps of meat or fish, fag- ends of bacon, so often wasted, with a little judicious management make, when re-dressed in a different form to what they were first served, tasty little dishes, which improve the api earance of the table with very little extra cost. i) O14 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Every cook has his own style of preparing and ■dressing a dinner. Some will study the elegance of ■dishing up, to the detriment of the modes of prepara- tion ; whilst others, on the contrary, will aim at refining the preparation, and think little of the elegance. Both are wrong. A good dish must be presented in an attractive form; but there is excess in everything, and too much art in cooking may be as fatal as too little. An ingenious cook may form varieties as endless as a musician with his instrument or as a painter with his colours. The study of cookery books, their rules and recipes, are of little use unless the practising party has the natural gift for perfect cookery. To arrive at perfection in culinary art means to be able to make a perfect sauce, and a ccok who is proficient in sauce-making must possess the most delicate skill for roasting. To merely make up a dish from a recipe is in comparison like dispensing from a prescription. The chemist, like the cook, will weigh or measure every ingredient em- ployed, with the exception that the former rarely or never tastes his preparations, whilst the latter must taste, and possess that power of judging of, say, a sauce which requires reducing where the flavour increases as the sauce simmers away. It would be blind work indeed for a cook to do without tasting ; the very best soups would be quite flavourless if the seasonings were omitted. Seasoning in cookery is what chords are in music; the bestTHE COOK AND THE KITCHEN 45 instruments in the hands of the best professors without their being in tune would be insipid. A good cook, besides being versed in the technique of the kitchen, should also be a good judge of the kinds, qualities, and uses of every dietary article. The old Greek comic poet Dionysius says :— “To roast some beef, to carve with neatness, To boil up sauces, and to blow the fire, Is anybody’s task ; he who does this Is but a seasoner and a broth-maker. A cook is quite another thing. His mind Must comprehend all facts and circumstances, Where is the place, and what the time of supper ; Who are the guests, and who the entertainer ; _ What fish lie ought to buy, and where he ought to buy it,” etc. “ A cook can be made, whilst a roaster is born.” These were the words of Brillat-Savarin. There is much reason in this argument, for it is an art indeed to possess the qualification of an artist in cookery. It is easier to compose an operatic piece than to invent a new dish, and even man who has the natural endowments would find it more easy to qualify himself to compete with the Royal Academicians than with the chief operators in cookery. In confirming these facts we cannot do better than follow the quotations of the Marquis de Cussy, who re- modelled the aphorism of Brillat-Savarin, thus :— “ On devient cuisinier ; On devient rotisseur; t)n unit saucier. ’PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 46 On following closely these words we come to the conclusion, and not without reasons, “ that one can learn to cook and be taught to roast; but to become a saucier needs the gift of a genius.” The cook is our best friend during his active life, but how soon is he forgotten when he can no longer cater for our gastronomic pleasures ! But a different era to that is coming soon; cooks will then no longer be ranked as “ mere cooks ” amongst their entrees and souffles, for cooking has been raised to the degree of a fine art, and if not now, yet soon it will be seen that cooks in England as well as other countries will be recognised as something infinitely superior to an upper servant. There are already many names which crop up for us in spiritual array of their aristocracy of cooking who have made and are making at present their influence felt to the exaltation of the art, for by that very force and power of making itself felt that the real art has possessed, even amongst those who pretend to know, but do not, the art of cooking will take a higher standard so rapidly as its pupils are raised with it. Car erne, Soyer, Ude, Vatel, Urbain Dubois, Emile Bernard, Francatelli, Gouff'e, Vassant, Tavenet, and others have all spoken out; but most of what they have said on this subject has been disregarded because their fellows in the art of cookery regarded them as premature when they were merely learned members of the profession. The cooks of the present day have a glorious taskTHE COOK AND TIIE KITCHEN 47 before them ; it is to make their art and profession felt, respected, and ennobled by the power of skill and care they will devote to its development. Colleges of cookery have of late been established in France and Switzerland, and such institutions are sure to follow in England, America, and other countries; it is therefore no idle dream to believe that the time is not far distant when the cook shall be personally as highly appreciated and valued as the dishes he prepares. The Eany Use of the Word “ Kitchen.” The etymology of “kitchen” is rather mixed: in French it is cuisine; Italian, cucina; in Latin, coquina ; and in German Kiiche. We find that in Saxon it is cycane; in Welsh, ccquin; in Danish, Kicekhen; and in Scotch, kyshen. Hence the names in German, Saxon, Danish, and Scotch resemble more the homely English word of “ kitchen.” The word itself seems to be in English an adaptation of the Latin coquina : it denotes the place where food is cooked. Some of our ancient authors refer to the word “ kitchen ” at very early dates. Thus Aristotl48 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY in n.c. 829, writes : “ It is less a rebuke for a man to be busy to know what is done in his kitchen than for a woman to know what is done without her house.” Then, again, in 1590, Spencer says:— “ They both attone. Did outie to their lady as became, Who passing byforlh led her guests anone Unto the kitchen roome, ne spared for nicenesse none.” In the poem of “ Piers the Ploughman ” there is the following passage: “ Ich be cook in here kitchen.” Geoffrey Chaucer, who lived in the 14th century, writing in “ The Wyf of Bathe’s Tale,” speaks of “ blessing halles, chambers, kitchens and boures, cities and burghs, castels hihe and toures.” Shakespeare writes is his “ Comedy of Errors” :— “ There is a fat frind at your master’s house that kitchen’d me for you to-day at dinner.” Some of the culinary affairs of yore disclose most envious facts in connection with cooks and kitchens ; for instance, there is a hook with the kitchens of the olden time, strange tricks and fancies, called “ Porta’s Natural Magicke.” It gives directions as to the ways of roasting and boding a fowi at the same tune, so that one half shall be roasted and the other boiled, and concludes that, should you have a lack of cooks, there is a way of persuading a goose—how* to roast himself.TIIE EARLY USE OF THE WORD “ KITCHEN ” 49 Here is a recipe to make a “ Sauce for a Goose,” a.d. 1381 : “ Take a faire panne, and set him under the goose whill she rostes: and kepeclane the grese that droppes thereof, and put therto a godele [good deal] of Wyn, and a litel vinegur, and verjus, and onyons mynced or garleek, then take the gottes of the goose and slitt horn, and scrape horn alone in water and salt, and so wash horn, and hack horn small, then do all tliis to gadur in a piffenet and do thereto raisinges and corance, ponder of pepur and of ginger and of canell, and hole clowes and maces, and let hit boyle and serve hit forthe.”s o PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY The Cook in Proverb. 1. The cook is worth as much as the waiter. 2. A strange cook makes good soups. 8. Even the best cook’s soups may burn sometimes. 4. It is a sad sign of the cook who first seeks his spoon when the pot is boiling over. 5. The cleverest cook cannot make a good soup from water alone. 6. The cook is the best doctor. 7. The cook must know everybody’s tastes. 8. A good cook has, as a rule, more fat on his hands than in his stomach. 9. The cook is badly off who cannot lick his fingers. 10. A good cook in a kitchen is worth as much as a good jockey on his horse. 11. A good cook does not boil chickens immediately after they are picked. 12. Not all who have a large spoon in their hands are cooks. 13. The more cooks, the worse the broth. 14. Few cooks will praise the other high. 15. Cook and waiter make good godfathers. 1G. When cooks are quarrelling, the soups and roast are generally failures. 17. When a cook revenges himself on his master, the cooking is sure to suffer. 18. As the cook, so is the kitchen.51 - •> J THE TEN CARDINAL VIRTUES For the Professional Cook. 1. &n intelligent bnolulctige of tlje art anti science of coobcrg. 2. & correct judgment in tije materials requtreU for -cooking. 3. Untiring industry. 4. Scrupulous cleanliness anti exactitude. 5. 02Hise economy. 6. Acuteness of perception of palatableness. 7. & judicious appropriation of commodities. 8. Sobriety. 9. p)oncstp. 10. Enbartable study of tfje master’s interest. JPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 52 Gastronomy in the Form of an Aphorism.* “ The world is nothing without the life, and all that lives requires nourishment.” “ Animals devour, the man eats ; the educated man alone eats with consciousness.” , 11 The fate of the nations depends upon their food.” “ Tell me what you eat, and I will tell you who you are.” “ The Creator has imposed the obligation of eating to human beings to enable them to live ; thus are we invited through the appetite and rewarded by the enjoyment of taste.” “To be a gourmet or epicure means to intimate the faculty of judging in eating, by which pleasant- tasting dishes obtain the preference to others which do not possess that peculiar qualification.” “ The delight of the dining-table appertains to all ages, positions, all nations, and all the days of the year, and will remain thus until the end, in order to comfort and console us for the loss of the less needful pleasures.” * Translation from Brillat-Savarin’s Thijiiologie, chi Gotit.GASTRONOMY IN THE FORM OF AN APHORISM 53 “ The dinner-table is the only place where one does not feel weary during the first hour.” “ May we be satisfied with the happiness we have if we cannot obtain the pleasure we want.” “The discovery of a new dish is far more important to humanity than the discovery of a new star.” “ The glutton and drunkard do not know the mean- ing of eating and drinking.” “ The classification of eating goes from heaviness to lightness.” “ The order of drinking goes from the light to heavy.” “ It is heresy to assert that it is wrong to change wines; the tongue is satisfied with the third glass, but after the third glass the taste for wine is blunted.” “A dessert without cheese is like a girl without eyes.” “ Punctuality is an indispensable quality of a cook, and should be sacred to the guests.” “ To wait long for a delayed guest is an offence to those who arrived in good time.” “To wait long for a late coming guest means rude- ness to the others who wait for his sake.” “Those who receive friends without having pre- viously provided for their meal do not deserve to have friends.”PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 54 “ A housewife should be proud of her cookery, or, if she feels that her skill is not sufficiently perfect to justify pride, she should make it her duty to study and make it so.” “ The meaning of inviting anyone is to look and care for their happiness and welfare whilst they remain under your roof.” Brillat-Savarin’s Maxims. SEASONABLE SUGGESTIONS IN “ THE DECALOGUE OF GASTRONOMY ” PUT INTO RHYME. I. Were there no life, the universe were naught; Life to sustain, apt food must still be sought. II. Beasts feed, man eats ; the man of cultured sense Alone gives eating its due eminence ! III. The fate of nations on their food depends ! IV. Say what you eat —I’ll know your tastes and friends !brillat-savarin’s maxims Or) V. Nature compels us all to take a bite, ]>ut softens with the bait of appetite Her iron rule ; obedience she rewards With pleasures only known at dainty boards ! VL Good livers show their judgment in their food. Why not prefer that which our taste finds good ? VII. All ages, ranks, and climes enjoy good cheer—- A recompense for other goods not here ! VIII. The first long hour is doubly drear, except At tables where a knowing chef is kept! IN. Who finds a planet out, his race may wash To serve. He serves them who finds out a dish. N. A drunkard knows not how to drink ; ’tis meet To say a glutton knows not how to eat! XI. First solid foods -then the more delicate! IPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 56 XII. Mild wines the first; the heady should come late XIII. To the cloy’d palate’s taste no liquor’s fine ; So, after several glasses, change your wine ! XIY. Without the cheese, the dinner’s final course Is like a one-eyed beauty, if not worse ! XY. Cooking’s an art, hut genius rules the roast. XVI. Promptitude cooks and guests alike should boast! XVII. Because one guest is late, ’tis rude to make The others wait their dinners for his sake ! XVIII. To an ungarnished board who bids his guest, His friendship puts to an inhuman test! XIX. Post-prandial coffee tests the hostess’ skill— The pousse-cafe, the host’s good taste and will! XX. Once in the threshold, every guest should boast A buffer ’gainst all evils in his - host!57 Maxims for the Kitchen. C A good cook is a jewel of priceless value. A good cook is known by her boiled potatoes. Abolish the frying pan for cooking meat. Don’t fly at too high game. Better one good dish than several badly cooked ones. In cooking a joint remember the main thing is to keep the juices as much as possible in the meat. Try to please the eye as well as the taste. The purpose of good cooking is not so much to gratify the palate as to aid the digestion. Badly cooked meals are the source of many dis- eases. < A well-cooked dinner will save many a matrimonial jar. To know only a “ little ” of cookery is a dangerous thing. There are scientific principles underlying the art of cookery which must be mastered before a cook really knows his business. When the first principles of cookery are once mastered, the cook will be able to evolve his own conclusions.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 58 “ A maxim, too, that must not be forgot: Whatever be your dinner, ‘ serve it hot.’ Your fine ragouts, like epigrams, require A little salt, but to be full of fire! ” (The Banquet.) “ Three dishes well dressed, and welcome with all, Both pleaseth thy friend, and becometh thine hall.” (Thomas Tusser, 1557.) Eating and Drinking among the Turks. The Turkish cuisine must be tasted to be appreciated. The basis of all culinary operations in Stamboul is a certain kind of tallow extracted from the broad and thick extremity of the Caraman sheep. This tallow has an odour so potent that we would not use it even for candles. The Turks are essentially vegetarians: They eat beef very rarely, and never pork or veal. They in- dulge in ducks, lean fowls, and fillany sheep, the flesh of which they cut off in small pieces. These pieces are strung upon long spits, which are held and turned for some minutes over hot coals, where they are slowly roasted, retaining all their juices. Tins is what is called kebab, a healthful and nutritious food which EuropeansEATING AND DRINKING AMONG THE TURKS 59 find delicious. Turkish pastry is quite varied, arid would not be disagreeable if honey and sugar were not used so abundantly, and if the taste of tallow could be excluded. Bakalciva and ebmek hataif (thick cakes in honey, perfumed with rose-water and covered with caimak, a kind of cream), in particular, recall very savoury memories. Pachas and rich Turks always have at their repasts a great number of dishes, which the servants bring in on brass platters, and place on the mat on the door, or sometimes on small low tables around which the guests squat. They eat in a grave manner, and help themselves generally with their fingers as well as with forks, and with their teeth as well as with their knives. Nevertheless, they deign to use a spoon to convey to their mouths food that is not very solid, like stewed rice, maleby (a kind of cooked cream), and iaourt (thick and bitterish milk), all of which they are very fond of. Their drink consists of clear water, but this does not prevent them from imbibing before their repast a white liquor, raki, which is made of the gum of the mastic-tree mixed with alcohol. It is an agreeable drink, but it is used like absinthe, the taste and properties of which it possesses. Its use, and even its abuse, does not bring remorse to the conscience of the Turks, for Mohammed has forbidden them to use wine, but he forgot, prophet though he was, to foresee the manufacture of raki, an invention more modern than his own. 4PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY no Chinese Diet and Custom. If a visitor is invited to dinner in China, custom orders that when the invitation is given he shall receive from the host certain advice as to conduct, such as— “ Do not eat with noise ; do not crunch the bones with your teeth, nor drink down the sauces at a gulp.” This is said seriously, and seriously received. If the master of the house is a person of importance, and offers to his guest fruit with stones or pips, such as peaches or oranges, the guest must put the pips in his pocket, in order not to appear to refuse anything the host is good enough to offer. If a melon is served, the manner of cutting it depends upon the caste to which the cutter belongs. Sentiments are regulated by custom as well as expression. Thus, if in the course of a visit refresh- ments are offered to the guest, he must drink the first cup “ with an air of profound thought,” the second “ with a satisfied expression.” A member of a Bremen trading house lately had the honour of taking dinner with a Chinese magnate in Pekin, and has given the following appetising descrip- tion of the feast. The table was set with twenty-two dishes, and was lit with ten large lanterns, the light of which shone clear through brightly coloured shades and61 CHINESE DIET AND CUSTOM ornaments. Instead of being served in courses, the dishes were brought in one at a time and passed to the guests severally, beginning with the most distinguished. His comments are as follows :— 1. Doves with mushrooms and split bamboo sprouts. Delicious. 2. Fat pork fritters or something like fritters. Splendid. 3. Pigeons’ eggs in meat broth, the whites hard but transparent. Very good. 4. Chinese birds’ nests, with bam chips and bam- boo sprouts (a mucilaginous dish). Excellent. 5. Poultry, different kinds, cooked with mushrooms and bamboo sprouts. Very agreeable. 6. Duck, with bamboo and lotus fruits, the fruits tasting and looking like an acorn without its cup. Toler- ably good. / 7. Hog’s liver fried in castor oil. Bad. 8. A Japanese dish of mussels, with malodorous codfish and bacon. Horrible. 9. Sea-crabs’ tails cooked in castor oil, with bits of bamboo and ham. Would have been palatable but for the wretched oil. 10. A star made of pieces of fowl, bacon, and dove, covered with white of egg. Very juicy.62 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 11. Slices of sera-fisli and sharks’ fins, with bamboo and mushrooms. It was hard to tell what kind of a dish it was, hut it was rather bad than good. 12. Giblets of poultry with morels. The morels helped the giblets down. 13. Ham and cabbage. Not very good. 14. Ham of sucking pigs, cooked in their own juice. A pause now ensued, during which pipes and tobacco were brought in. The pipes held about a thimbleful of tobacco—enough for two or three puffs—and we were kept busy filling and lighting them. 15. Land-turtles, with their eggs, in castor oil. 16. Ends of ham. Good. 17. Breast of fowl, with sour cabbage. No delicacy. 18. Stale eggs (these eggs had been kept one month in salt and two months in moist earth). The whites looked like burned sugar, and were transparent. The yolks had a greenish colour, and the embryos appeared dark, rolled together, and perfectly recognisable. Dessert: Conserve of sitzon, a red fruit that looks like a shadberry, and tastes like a currant. Good. The only drink was tea, very weak and without sugar, and Jamion, a rice wine, which is drunk hot like tea, and is wretched stuff.Culinary Telephone. “ Do everything at the proper time.” “ Keep everything in its proper place.” “ Use everything for its proper purpose.” “ Always study your master’s interest, place yourself in his situation, and then consider what you would expect from him if he were in yours.” “ Strive to embrace every opportunity of learning anything which may be useful to yourself, or which may be beneficial to others.” “ Never think any little part of your business too trifling to be well done.” “ Study all ways of economy, and endeavour to make the most of everything.” “ In cooking meat do not throw away the water, as it will come in useful for stock, for soups and sauces.” “ Remember that plated dishes and coffee-pots are injured if left on the stove.” “ Do not use table-napkins and table-cloths for dish- cloths.” “ Never use silver spoons for scraping kettles.” “ See that the kitchen utensils are always properly cleansed and dried.” “ Do not allow cream to mould and spoil.”PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY H4 “ When not using the fire do not forget to arrange dampers so as not to burn more fuel than needed.” “ Do not leave the lights burning when not wanted.” !" Do not let fruit decay for the want of ‘ sorting over.’ ” “ Save the bones of meat and the carcasses of poultry, as they can be used in making good soups.” Take care of the gravy which is left ; it will save many pounds of meat in making sauces for hashes, and many other little dishes.” “ Save all the meat, &c., which is left from table, as many things may be re-dressed, in a different form, from that in which they weri first served, and often improve the appearance of the table without increasing the expense of same.” “ Never allow soups or sauces to be left standing in tin or copper overnight.” “ Do not leave cold vegetable to get sour and spoil.” “ No artists have greater need to make hay while the sun shines than cooks have.”65 PART III HIGH-CLASS AND DOMESTIC COOKERY Of the Present Time. All that appertains to the delicate and valuable science of cookery, in its highest and most artistic form, is the result and study of the masters of that craft, who, we are bound to admit, have of late produced marvellous improvements by providing what “ is pleasant to the eye and good for food.” The modern high-class cooks are at once artists, architects, and physicians: they appeal to our senses of colour, of fragrance, of form, and of taste, and, recognising that truth, the condition of our souls is largely dependent on the state of our stomachs. Then- inventive genius is displayed in multitudinous methods for what we may call the artistic presentation of nutri- ment. They can build castles and cathedrals out of cooked meats, flour, rice, and sugar; they can fashion all the flowers that bloom in the spring out of deftly moulded stearine crystals or carved vegetable roots ; theyPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY (56 can form all the delicate pieces of a table decoration, and the judicious composition of a well-balanced bill of fare ; they work like dramatists and think like doctors, for, after all, the “ secret ” of a dinner means good dialogue on the part of the company, hence the culinary artist is the real physician of modem life. So much for the artists and the “haute cuisine”; but it is also most necessary that the importance of good cooking he like- wise recognised in “ every-day life.” It is here that cookery in many cases is still shamefully mismanaged, and the extravagance and discomfort resulting from bad cooking are beyond restraint. It is often said that a French cook can serve up a most savoury dish of a few crusts of bread and scraps of meat and a little spice. I do not know how true this may be, hut I am quite sure that the English cook, with a little more judicious management and proper use of the material, ought to be just as capable of serving up as palatable, nutritious, and economical dishes as the French. Eleven women out of twelve have daily some- thing to do with preparing food for the table, and if more regard were shown for such an important matter as the art of cooking, not nearly so much food which is entrusted to them would be spoiled. ■ It sounds very fine, no doubt, to place one’s self above these lower considerations of material existence, to profess indifference as to the tenderness of a joint, or the savouriness of hashes and stews, and to declare that, so long as one has enough to stop the animal67 HIGH-CLASS AND DOMESTIC COOKERY craving for nourishment, it is of little importance whether the food be dressed in an appetising manner or not. Cooking, in the vocabulary of sax women out of eight, means waste, inefficiency, and discomfort; many may think this exaggeration, but such is not the case, as we shall see when we consider how much is spent on food, how much is wasted by inefficient management, and how much of that might be saved by proper management. Among the many important reasons for and advantages of good cooking there are three essential ones: first, it prevents waste ; second, it is necessary for health ; last, but by no means of the least importance, it has much effect upon the temper and actions of weak mortals. Proper knowledge of the functions of food and their respective preparations of cooking would save many pounds a year ; it would provide better comfort, better houses, and higher education. It is distressing to note in the homes of the poor, and even in some of the houses of the middle classes, how excessive are the ignorance and the wastefulness in cooking. Luxury is common among all classes, and very often more so than is needed. But it is not luxury I wish to advocate; indeed, most of those who can afford to keep up an expensive table generally secure the service of first-rate cooks who are well acquainted with the rudiments and true secrets of cookery ; there should, however, be a method for the cooking of every-day life between the luxurious display of delicacies daintily prepared by skilful man-cooks, and the badly cookedPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 68 and unpalatable dishes with which the lower and middle classes have to be content. It is but a right and reasonable ambition for any young woman to desire to make herself a mistress of the art of cooking. It is not essential that, because she is proficient in it, she is to devote her time to cooking meals. It is far more conducive, indeed, to domestic comfort for the mistress to take no practical part in making the dishes, yet she ought to know how they are prepared, if she is to direct. A word or two of criticism to the cock, a hint as to some improvement, will show the cook that her mistress is efficient in the art, and she cannot afford to ignore her remarks ; such will be the results when a practical and thorough knowledge in the management has been obtained. Those who understand the necessity of good cooking recognise one of the natural but at the same time most important require- ments of home comfort. It should not be for their own sake that they make it a point of study, for often women care little about the pleasures of the table. It is for the sake of their husbands, sons, or brothel's, whose comfort depends upon her good management. Sensible women will not think it prudent to look with disdain on the masculine inclination for good fare; for such weakness they will readily overcome. Who knows better than a sensible woman that a man’s physical welfare affects his mental and moral condition, and understands the connection between an appetising dinner and an amiable frame of mind ? Good cooking, too, is necessaryHIGII-CLASS AND DOMESTIC COOKERY 69 for the preservation of health. However plain the food may be, it must be treated properly, or it will fail to nourish, and be productive of that dread enemy, in- digestion. There are rules and reason for everything done in cooking as much as in any other art, and upon the observance of these rules depends success. Sameness is one of the least serious charges to be brought against the cooking of an ordinary middle- class family, though greater variety would be more agreeable ; there are generally worse evils—bad cook- ing and serving up indigestible and wasteful dishes. The greater efficiency of man-cooks has been attributed, and certainly not without reason, to the better know- ledge of the method: much more than women they work by rule; they rely on the clock, the scales, and carefully tested recipes. It is not always profound knowledge that is necessary ; great care, more delibera- tion, and better method would, in many households, effect a marvellous transformation. A good cook does nht entirely depend on book and rule; a cer- tain natural aptitude is necessary, though knowledge acquired from teachers and books on cookery is most invaluable. It would be useless to expect to educate every woman to be a skilful cook ; nor is it necessary that all women should be first-rate cooks ; but every woman should and could, if disposed, be able to prepare the plainer articles of food so that they are palatable, nutritious, and digestible. Whether the trouble to get this know-PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 70 ledge be great or small, it ought to be faced. No intelli- gent and competent housekeeper, whether mistress or servant, should, however, be contented by merely acquir- ing the rudiments of cooking; she should be able to compound cheap and palatable dishes, the recipes for which she had herself put together. Anything which is a person’s duty to do should be done well, and by doing so one ought to find pleasure and pride in it. Cooking being such an important part of the daily work of millions of mistresses and servants, it is one of those things in which they should excel. They should not begrudge the time and study required to enable them to become skilful and economical cooks. It is no trifling matter to serve day after day half- boiled potatoes and badly cooked vegetables, unpalatable stews, and underdone meat; the human stomach not only fails to get its proper nourishment as it should from these viands, but it experiences also inconvenience, contracts disease, and suffers the consequent penalty. What can be more unpalatable than food served up before it is properly cooked, and what less satisfying to the appetite ? Any food which the stomach loathes, whether from toughness, richness, bad flavour, or un- palatableness, is not a pleasure, and cannot possibly be wholesome or economical, and must consequently be injurious to human health. Wise people can check gluttony, if good cookery should encourage over-eating; but this I should hardly think would be the case.71 HIGH-CLASS AND DOMESTIC COOKERY If meat is bard, tough, and unpalatable, it is plain that some rule of good cooking has been neglected, and the result is not that it is merely uninviting, but that it is, as before said, unwholesome. Custards turn, cakes do not rise, pastry is heavy and uneatable, soups and fish, &c., go wrong simply for the want of science on the part of the cook. A gifted cook can flavour better “ to taste ” than by following any scientific mode of due proportions of seasoning; but a gifted cook is a rare person, and ordinary mortals must be con- tented to follow' the definite rules which are set before them. On the whole, it cannot be doubted that cooking as an art has much progressed of late years, and will be more perfected if still more intelligent knowledge is directed to it. Notes on Boiling. Well-boiled meat is not so common as it should be, and one of the reasons is the persistence with which the old-fashioned notion of putting the joint into cold water is still clung to by many writers on this subject.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 72 Mrs. Glasse is often referred to as the most old- fashioned and unscientific of cooks, but she, at any rate, steered clear of this blunder; whereas, Murray says: “ All meat for boiling should be first entirely covered with cold water.” One of the best authorities says : “If the flesh be introduced into the boiler when the water is in a state of brisk ebullition, and if the boiling be kept up for a few minutes, and the pot then placed in a warm place, so that the temperature of the water is kept at 158 deg. to 165 deg., we have the united conditions for giving to the flesh the qualities which fit it for being eaten. If you wish to rob meat of its most nourishing and wholesome properties, put it in cold water, which receives them, leaving the meat quite unfit for eating, even if it does make the water a foundation for soup —that is, stock! But if you want ‘ stock,’ it can be made with cheaper material than joints of meat intended for the table.” When meat is to be eaten, the albumen should be retained in it, for not only does it preserve the fibrin from becoming hard, but it gives to it softness and delicacy. The influence of boiling water upon albumen is well known. The best method of boiling meat intended for food is to introduce it into boiling water ; if the boiling be kept up for five minutes, and then so much cold water be added as to reduce the temperature to 165 deg., and the whole retained at this temperature long enough, all the conditions are united which give to the flesh the quality best adapted for its use as73 NOTES ON BOILING food. When it is introduced into the boiling water, the albumen immediately coagulates from the surface inwards, and in this state forms a crust, which no longer permits the external water to penetrate into the interior of the mass of flesh. But the temperature is gradually transmitted to the interior, and there effects the conversion of the raw flesh into the state of boiled. The flesh retains its juiciness, and is quite as agreeable to the taste as it can be made by roasting. When the temperature of the interior of a piece of meat has not reached 144 deg. it presents a blood-coloured or underdone appearance. The principle of both boiling and roasting is the same— to endeavour as quickly as possible to surround the joint with a hard film of meat, in order to keep the flavour in, not to dissolve it out with a cold-water bath. Cold water extracts from the meat two most important elements of the gastric juice—lactic and phosphoric acids. In boiling meat, however, a certain proportion of the nutritious qualities are sure to escape into the water and steam, for which reason the quantity of water should not be more than suffices to cover the meat, nor the saucepan an inch larger than it must needs be to hold it. Boiled too long or too fast, meat becomes indigestible and hard. Hard water is better than soft water for boiling meat in, more of its tenderness and richness being retained in the former than in the latter. Too rapid boiling tends to overdo the exterior portion of the meat, while the interior remains underdone. For this74 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY reason after the meat has been in water kept at the boiling-point abont five minutes the temperature should be reduced, and the rest of the process he more slowly conducted. Salted meat, in particular, should be very slowly cooked, kept simmering and allowed to grow cool in the pot. The scum which rises to the surface of the water should he carefully removed while the water is near the boiling-point, as other- wise it sinks, and looks very unsightly attached to the meat. Notes on Boasting. Roasting is a process which, if well done, requires great care, attention, and thoughtfulness on the part of the cook, the method being a difficult and important one, and by no means a thing of rule which can be mechani- cally performed. In the first place, the fire must be in the right condition—clear, bright and giving out uniform but not too strong heat—and its breadth and depth should be regulated to the size of the joint. The weight of the joint to be roasted, the condition and form of the meat, and its proportions of fat and lean should also be considered. Meat of newly killed beasts requires longer cooking. In warm weather joints require slightly less75 NOTES ON ROASTING roasting than in cold. Thick joints—say sirloins of beef or legs of mutton—will not be well cooked if roasted as long as you would roast thinner ones, such as ribs of beef or shoulders. Boned or stuffed meat will require longer cooking than the same joints would unstuffed, or writh the hone in. The meat of young animals and of older ones requires different treatment (as a rule, young flesh, containing less fibrin requires most cooking) ; some kinds of meat are best roasted before a brisk fire (pork, veal, and lamb, for instance) ; others should be more slowdy cooked. [Some flesh requires very little cooking, some much longer—the flesh of old and full- grown animals, poultry excepted, requiring the shorter time.] The cook’s aim should be to preserve the real flavour and nourishing qualities of the meat, and to prevent the juices from being dried out during the roast- ing process. Attaining this aim depends chiefly upon the roasting being neither too quick nor too. slow, and upon the care given to the basting, which should always be thoroughly done. Avoid thrusting forks into roasting meat. It is a good plan to begin with the meat rather close to the fire and then a little farther from the fire, increasing the distance between the grate and the joint until (the exterior being hardened) the flesh is heated nearly uniformly all through, and then bringing it and keeping it near the fire, lest remaining too far from it should destroy its crisp firmness, and make it un- pleasantly soft and soddened. If too little cooked or underdone, meat is indigestible. If too much cooked or 57G PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY dried, up, it is not less so. Overcooking expels the fluids and contracts the fibres. It is sometimes absurdly urged that underdone indigestible meat is to be preferred because it is in itself more nutritious than the digestible or better-cooked flesh. But this is not dealing with flesh as food ; for if it were, cooking would be altogether dispensed with, because raw meat contains more of the nutritious elements than underdone meat. It is the cook’s business not only to send food to table as full of nourishing qualities as it can be, but to see that such qualities are in a fit condition to do their beneficent work of repairing and restoring most effectually. Notes on Stewing. The stewpan is one of the most efficient utensils in the hands of a good cook. Stewing has this advan- tage over boiling, the more nourishing and soluble elements are not separted from, but served up with, the meat, the full flavour of which is also thereby preserved. It is sometimes described as a gradual process of sim- mering. The meat selected for stewing should be lean, and, as a rule, the better the meat, the better it will be for77 NOTES ON STEWING eating ; but it must be remembered that by stewing, the coarser and cheaper parts of meat, such as bones, cheeks, feet, tails, shanks, knuckles, trimmings, &c., may be rendered highly palatable and nutritious. Every pound of meat stewed will require about a quart of water (if it is found too little, warm water can be afterwards added). The heating should be slow and gradual, the skum taken off as it rises, and the stewing continued until the flavour of the meat is entirely extracted. For stewing, the closed range or stove is preferable to the open grate, and if the latter is in use contact between the stewpan and the fire should be prevented. Notes on Frying. Flying is a process frequently condemned by scien- tific authorities mainly, perhaps, because it is in high favour with bad cooks. Contrast for one moment the discoloured dish, too often met with in private houses, in which, say, a little bit of fish is sent up, and presents what may be called a parti-coloured appearance. Some part is burned black as a cinder, another part looks the colour of underdone pie-crust, and again other parts present bald patches, as if the cook had accidentally78 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY spilled some boiling water on a cat’s back. Contrast this with the beautifully rich golden-coloured dish that will make its appearance at the table where the master mind of one like Francatelli has presided, or with a dish that one would meet with in a Parisian cafe, the bright silver dish contrasting temptingly with the gold-coloured food and the crisp dark green parsley piled in the centre —a work of art which pleases both eye and palate, senses nigher akin in their respective offices than thought- less cooks can imagine them to be. The condition of the fire is of importance ; you cannot fry properly over a bad one ; continous care is another necessary condition. Successful frying, in short, demands both skill and knowledge, and in proportion to their exercise and degree will be the reputation of both frying and the fried. “ The art of frying,” says Sir Henry Thompson, “ is little understood, and the omelet is almost entirely neglected by our countrymen. The products of our frying-pan are often greasy, and therefore for many persons indigestible, the shallow form of the pan being unsuited for the process of boiling in oil, that is, at the heat of nearly 500 deg. Fahr. (that of boiling water being 212 deg.). This high temperature produces results which are equivalent indeed to quick roasting (when the article is cooked in boiling fat); but frying as generally conducted is rather a combination of boiling and toast- ing (or scorching); and the use of the deep pan of boiling oil or dripping which is essential to the right performance of the process, and especially as preventing79 NOTES ON FRYING greasiness, is a rare exception and not the rule in ordi- nary kitchens. The principle on which success depends is that at the moment of contact with the almost boiling fat a thin film over every part of the surface of the fish or other object to be fried is coagulated, so that the juices with their flavours &c. are at once locked up within, and no quality can escape. The frying fat should, therefore, be in sufficient quantity, and also hot enough, to effect this result in an instant, after which, and dur- ing the few minutes required to cook the interior, the heat may be slightly lowered with advantage.” Notes on Braising. Braising is a kind of improved stewing process, which the before-mentioned authority thinks we very unwisely neglect. “ In braising,” he says, “the meat is just covered with a strong liquor of vegetable and animal juices (braise or mirepoix) in a closely covered vessel, from which as little evaporation as possible is permitted, and is exposed for a considerable time to a surrounding heat just short of boiling.” By this treatment tough, fibrous flesh, whether of poultryPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 80 or of cattle, or meat unduly fresh, such as can alone be procured during the summer season in towns, is made tender, and is furthermore impregnated with the odours and flavour of fresh vegetables and sweet herbs, while the liquor itself, slowly reduced in the process, furnishes the most appropriate, fragrant, and delicious sauce with which to surround the portion when served at table. Thus, also, meats which are dry and of little flavour, such as veal, become saturated with juices, which render the food succulent and delicious. Spices and wine are sometimes used to impart their flavours. The process of cooking a braise is thus spoken of by Jules Gouffe in his “ Livre de Cuisine.” The chief operation is one of slow simmering, for, he says, if the meat be exposed to sudden heat the gravy is insipid, colourless, and weak, as it too often is in such preparations by careless or ignorant cooks. The gravy should he highly nutritious, of a rich high colour and flavour, and of gelatinous con- sistency. “I advise,” he says, “that for braising the quantity of meat should be large rather than small, as a long process of cooking is most effective, and you at once obtain two admirable dishes instead of one, for when the braise is cold it is equally good, and affords a pleasant change.”81 Notes on Broiliag and Grilling. This is a process in general favour with both cooks and physicians, as it retains in the meat the more nutritious qualities and flavour, their evaporation and exhalation being prevented by the sudden closing to- gether of the fibres, or, in other words, the hardening and browning of the surface. The gridiron, kept always in a perfectly clean condition, should be made hot and previously rubbed with a piece of clean fat to prevent scorching, and thereby disfiguring the appearance of the food ; and the fire, where coal or coke is used, should be clear and bright. The great art lies in suiting the time' of cooking and the number of turns to the size, thickness, and general character of the meat you have to broil— a beefsteak, for instance, requiring more frequent turning than a mutton chop, and a pork chop requiring a longer time for its broiling than a steak. Special care must be exercised to keep the fat from falling into the fire, as the sudden blaze conveys a smoky flavour to the meat. But, above everything, take care not to pinch the meat in turning, or the juices will run out, and much of the flavour be lost. At the first cut from a well-cooked steak or chop, especially a steak, the gravy should burst forth. The value of the gridiron is, perhaps nowhere better known than in England, especially inPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 82 relation to chops, steaks, kidneys, the blade-bone, or even a small shoulder of mutton, all of which may be sent to table in the highest perfection from a clear fire managed by careful and competent hands; although it is still not so widely appreciated as it deserves to be in the preparation of many a small dish of fish, fowl, and meat or hone, to say nothing of a grilled mushroom, either alone or as an accompaniment to any of them. Notes on Salads and Salad Dressing. Salads are now, as they were a couple of hundred years ago, composed of certain pot-herbs, to which are added various aromatic odoriferous herbs or fournitures, as the French call them, which greatly add to the zest of the mixture. There are about twelve of these herbcs de fourniture, namely, garden-cress, watercress, chervil, chives, scallions or green onions, tarragon, pimpernel or burnet, parsley, hartshorn, sweet basil, purslane, fennel, and young balsam. Cresses are wholesome and anti- scorbutic, chervil is a purifier, chives a stimulant, tar- ragon stomachic and corroborant, while parsley is carminative, and the remaining herbs are all pronounced by L&rnery in his “ Traite des Aliments ” to have medicinal virtues.NOTES ON SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING 83 Salads, of course, vary with the season. Chicory or endive is in season at the end of autumn, and it is not usual to add any lierbe de fourniturc to that salad. Some in France place at the bottom of the salad-basin containing an endive salad a small crust of stale bread rubbed over with garlic, which gives a slight flavour to the dish. Later in the season another species of chicory called scarole is had recourse to. It is not so tender as chicory proper, but has as much flavour, and is quite as wholesome. Chicory, according to Lemaire, is of a cooling nature, and creates an appetite. Winter salads are generally composed of mache or corn salad, rampions and chopped celery. Sometimes also in winter a salad is made exclusively of chopped celery, seasoned with oil and mustard. Garden or water-cress is also a winter salad. It is good to mix it 'with slices of beetroot ; and in France, more especially in Provence, olives are often added. Towards February the salad most in vogue is an endive called barbe de Gapucin, or Capucin’s beard. It is seasoned like the white succory. The lettuce generally appears about the commence- ment of Lent, but the better sort of lettuce does not make its appearance before Easter. It is the most popular of all salads. Herbes de fourniture are added to it, in which anchovies and chopped chives are mixed. Sometimes, as a variety, prawns and shrimps are added. Next comes the Roman lettuce, less watery, and84 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY with much fuller and finer flavour than the preceding, especially when the leaves are streaked. The Roman lettuce is sometimes served with odoriferous herbs, hard eggs are often added to the seasoning. The Roman lettuce is in season from May to the end of autumn. Besides these there are hotch-potch salads made en macedoine in a variety of roots and vegetables, such as French beans, haricots blancs, lentils, small onions, beetroot, saxifrage, or goat’s beard, potatoes, carrots, artichoke bottoms, asparagus tops, gherkins, sliced anchovies, soused tunny, olives, &c. There are salads also of meat, fish, and game. A salade d Vitalicnne is composed of cold fowl cut up in pieces and served with anchovies and dressed salad. True connoisseurs of the vegetable luxury wipe the separated leaves of the lettuce one by one with care. They break the foliage for the salad-bowl, never cutting it, and debate and commingle the component parts of the dressing with anxiety and scrupulous care. A good salad can be concocted, of course, out of fifty ingredients, from nettle-tops and dandelion leaves through cold potato and beetroot to the lettuce and the endive, which are salad plants par excellence. It is in dressing, however, that genius is most exhibited. The broad rule has been well laid down in the familiar formula, that to compound a proper garnish for a bowl of salad demands “ a sage for the salt, a miser for the vinegar, a prodigal for the oil, and a maniac for the mixing.” Other and difficult problems must of courseNOTES ON SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING 85 arise ; but, from whatever side we examine the question of this seasonable dish, everything depends upon oil—good, pure, pellucid, nut-flavoured oil. That of the olive is to be preferred, of course, and for choice the Provence oil, as distinguished from the so-called “ Lucca.” Home- made salad dressing, it goes without saying, is better than that bought ready-made. A few not generally known items on the subject may be acceptable. First, you can boil your dressing, and so keep it, tightly bottled, for some time. Take three eggs, one tablespoon- ful each of sugar, oil, and salt, a small tablespoonful of mustard, a cupful of milk, and one, or less, of vinegar. Stir the oil, salt, mustard, and sugar in a bowl until perfectly smooth, add the yolk of the eggs, well beaten, then the vinegar, and lastly the milk. Place the bowl in a basin of boiling water, and stir the contents till of the consistency of custard. For aspic mayonnaise dressing melt a cupful of savoury jelly, then put it in a bowl, which place in a basin of ice water, mix with a quarter cup of vinegar, one tablespoonful of sugar, one scant of mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Beat the jelly with a whisk, and when it thickens add the oil and vinegar little by little, lastly a little lemon-juice, beating it all the time. This dressing ought to be very white, and will serve as an excellent salad dressing.We may live without poetry, music, and art; We may live without conscience, and live without heart ; We may live without friends ; we may live without books ; But civilised man cannot live without cooks. We may live without books—what is knowledge but grieving ! We may live without hope—what is hope but deceiving ? We may live without love—what is passion but pining 1 But where is the man that can live without dining ? Owen Meredith.PAET IV COMPLETE MENU-COMPILER AND BEGISTEE OF MOST KNOWN DISHES IN FRENCH AND ENGLISH WITH Practical Observations on Same“ La Gastronomie marcbe en souveraine a la tete de la civilisation, mais elle vegete dans le temps de revolution.” Brillat-Say akin.89 HORS-D’CEU VRE FROIDS Hors-d’oeuvre simples Plain Side Dishes Served on small Glass or China Dishes. N.B.—Pats of fresh Butter should be served with all side dishes. French. Anchois it l’huile. Anchois aux capres. Anguilles fumees. Anguilles marinees. Sardines a l’huile. Sardines fumees. Sardines sans aretes. Sardines a la tomate. Royans a l’huile. Sardines Russe. Harengs marines. Melesses fumees. Saumon fume. Carrelets fumes. Langouste. Crevettes. Ecrevisses. Lamproies £t l’huile. English. Anchovies in oil. Anchovies with Capers. Smoked Eel. Pickled Eel. Sardines in oil. Smoked Sardines. Boneless Sardines. Sardines in Tomato sauce. Royans in oil. Russian Sardines pickled. Pickled Herrings. Smoked Sjiratts. Smoked Salmon. Smoked Eloundcrs. Spiny Lobster. Prawns. Crayfish. Lampreys in oil.90 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Maquereaux a l’huile. Thon marine. CEufs de Pluviers. CEufs de Mousttes. CEufs de Yanneaux. Mackerel in oil. Pickled Tunny Fish. Plover's eggs. Mew eggs (Gull eggs). Lapwing eggs (Piovet eggs). Smoked Provisions suitable for Hors-d'oeuvre, cut in thin slices, and served in Hors-d’oeuvre dishes. Jambon de Strasbourg. Langue fouree. Jambon Westphalie. Jambon d’Espagne. Langue de Renne fumee. Saucisson de Brunswick. Saucisson de Milan. Strasburg Ham. Smoked Ox Tongue. Westphalian Ham. Spanish Ham. Beindeer Tongues. Brunswick Sausage. Salami Sausage. Saucisson de Foie de Strasbourg. Strasburg Liver Sausage. Saucisson de Foie gras. Saucissons de Jambon. Saucisson de Lyon. Saucisson de Mordadelle. Saucisson noir. Saucisson blanc. Saucisson de Perigueux. Saucisson de Bologne. Poitrine d’oie fumee. Cornichons a la moutarde. Cornichons. Olives d’Espagne. Goose-Liver Sausage. Ham Sausage. Lyon Sausage. Mordedella Sausage. Black Sausage. White Sausage. Liver and Truffle Sausage. Bologna Saiisage. Smoked breast of goose. Gherkins in mustard sauce. Gherkins. Spanish Olives.hors-d’ceuvre !)1 Olives farcies. Stuffed Olives. Melon brode. Pickled Melon. Radis rose et blanc. Radishes, pink and white. Celeri. Celery. Betterave marinee. Pickled Beetroot. Cresson alenois. Garden Cress. Tomates crues. Fresh Tomatoes. Anguille marinee. Soused Eel. Games Americains. American Clams. Crevettes dressees. Dressed Shrimps (Prawns). Ecrevisse dressee. Dressed Crawfish. Escargots farcis. Stuffed Snails. Grenouilles marines. Pickled Frogs. Harengs saurets. Smoked Herrings. Harengs marines. Soused Herrings. Harengs & la Remoulade. Pickled Herrings in Mustard Sauce. Huitres. Oysters. Sandwich au Jambon. Ham Sandwich. Sandwich aux Anchois. Anchovy Sandivich. Sandwich au Caviar. Caviare Sandwich. Sandwich panache. Sandwich with various kinds of meat. Sandwich de Homard. Lobster Sandivich. Sandwich aux Sardines. Sardine Sandivich. Sandwich au fromage. Cheese Sandwich. Sandwich de Foie gras. Goose-Liver Sandwich. c92 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Hors-d’oeuvre froids et mets divers. Prepared Side Dishes (Cold). Anchois sur canapes. Anchovy Canapces. Anchois en salade. Anchovy Salad. Anchois et queues d’ecrevisses au capisantis. Anchovies and Crayfish tails in shells. Bonnes-Bouches de Sardines a la Royale. Sardine patties, Royal style. Sardines sur canapes. Sardine Ganapees. Bonnes-Bouches de Foie gras. Goose-Liver Patties. Darioles de Foie gras. Goose-Liver Darioles. Bonnes-Bouches a la Cardinal. Lobster and Anchovy Bonnes-Bouches. Crabe garnie. Dressed Crab. Darioles d’Huitres a la' Carlton. Oyster Darioles, Carlton style. Ballotines de Homard a la Reforme. Ballotines of Lobster, Reform style. Darioles de Homard a la Tomate. Lobster Demotes with Tomatoes. Homard a la Careme. Lobster dressed Careme style. Canapes de Homard a la Reine. Lobster Canapces, Queen style. Canapes de Saumon fume. Smoked Salmon Canapces.93 hors-d’ceuvre Pate d’Ecrevisses sur canapes. Crayfish paste on canapees. Thon marine sur canapes. Pickled Tunny Fish on canapees. Laitance de Cabillaud fume sur canapes. Smoked Cod’s Roe canapees. Caviar sur Canape a la remoulade. Caviare Canapees, r&moulade style. Brisolettes de Caviar a la Moscovite. Caviare dainties, Moscow style. Dariole de Caviar. Caviare Darioles. Escargots aux fines herbes. Snails with fine herb butter. Boeuf fume a la Hambourgeoise. Smoked Beef,Hamburg style. Boeuf bache a l’aspic. Minced Beef with savoury jelly. Jambon sur canapes. Ham canapees. Langue de Boeuf sur canapes. Ox-Tongue canapees. Darioles de Tomate a la creme. Tomato Darioles with cream. (Eufs farcis a la Russe. Stuffed Eggs, Russian style. Petites Boucbees de Jambon la creme. Small Ham p>atties with cream. Appetissants espagnols. Spanish Appetisers. Appetissants a la Maximilien. Appetisers, Maximilian style. A book on “ Side Dishes,” comprising Hors-d’oeuvre, Savouries, and Salads, by the Author of this work, is pub- ished by John Haddon and Co., Bouverie House, Salisbury Court. Price 3s. 6d.94 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Etiquette for serving Hors-d’oeuvre, &c. There are a number of Hors-d’oeuvre, as well as other eatables, that may be taken at the dinner table without the aid of either knife, fork, or spoon—for instance: Olives, to which a fork should never he applied. Sandiviches. They should never be cut too large. Asparagus, whether hot or cold. Lettuce, which should be dipped in the dressing or a little salt. Celery, which may be placed on the table beside the plate. Bread, Toast, Tarts, Small Calces, <£c. Fruits of all kinds except preserves, which are eaten with a spoon ; melons and pines are eaten with fruit knives, and often apples and pears. Cheese is in some cases eaten with the fingers, even by the most particular gourmets. Either the leg or other small pieces of a bird may be picked with the fingers. Ladies at most of the fashionable tables pick small pieces of chicken, without using knife or fork.95 POTAGES—SOUPS A. Consommes—Clear Soups. ConsommS Brunoise. Brunoise gravy soup. A vegetable gravy soup -with carrots, turnips, leeks, and onions cut into very fine discs. Consomme Cdlestin. Celestine gravy soup. A clear gravy soup -with thin pancakes cut into julienne shapes. Consomme Christophe Colomb. Christophe Colomb chicken broth. Clear chicken broth -with small diamonds of poached egg mixture, made from whites and yolks of eggs and milk. Consomme Fleury. Fleury gravy soup. A clear soup with rice and a few vegetables cut into discs. (Macedoine.) Consommd d la Colbert. Colbert gravy soup. A clear soup with poached eggs and green peas. Consomme aux choux farcis. Gravy soup with stuffed sprouts. A clear soup with small stuffed sproutsPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 96 Consomme a Vestragon. Tarragon gravy soup. A clear soup flavoured with tarragon leaves. ConsommS clair. Clear gravy soup (plain). C'onsommd cl la far mi ere. Gravy soup, farm-house style. A clear soup with carrots, cabbage, leeks, potatoes, and turnips, cut into thin triangle-shaped slices. Consomme a la Grisonne. Cfrisonne gravy soup. A clear soup with small dumplings (quenelles) pro- duced with batter paste, passed into the soup when boiling through a coarse colander. Consomme Goclc-a-Leekie. Cock-a-Leekie soup. Chicken broth, clear, with leeks cut into thick julienne shape, pearl barley, and small discs of boiled chicken breast. Consomme aux lasagnes. Lasagne gravy soup. A clear soup with nouilles (a kind of macaroni paste, only flat instead of round). Consomme Mulligataivny. Clear mulligatawny soup. Consomme Julienne. Julienne gravy soup. A clear soup, with carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, cabbage, and lettuces cut into very thin strips, about an inch long, called Julienne. Consomme Salfenno. Salferino gravy soup. A clear soup with carrots, turnips, potatoes, cut. out with a small round spoon, termed in French a la cuillere.POTAGES—SOUPS 5)7 Gonsommi maigre. Fish broth. A clear soup (Lent soup), made with fish stock and vegetables. Gonsommi a la moelle cle bee uf. Beef marrow gravy soup. A clear soup with small marrow, fat dumplings. Gonsommi au macaroni. Macaroni gravy soup. Gonsommi a la Monaco. Gravy soup, Monaco style. A clear soup with stuffed fried bread dumplings. Gonsommi a la paysanne. Peasant gravy soup. A clear gravy soup with carrots, cabbages, leeks, turnips, lettuces, cut into large discs. Gonsommi a la printaniire. Spring gravy soup. A clear gravy soup with spring vegetables. Gonsommi au pain cle foie. Gravy soup with liver. A clear soup with small liver dumplings. Gonsommi aux pates d'ltalie. Gravy soup with Italian paste. A clear soup with Italian paste. Gonsommi cl la Baviire. Gravy soup, Bavarian style. A clear soup with semolina dumplings. Gonsommi croilte au pot. Gravy seup with toast. A clear soup, with stock-pot vegetables and thin pieces of toast cut into discs.98 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Consomme j>ot au feu. French gravy soup. A clear soup with onions, carrots, turnips, and celery to flavour the stock, which should he made of beef, mutton, and veal. Small rounds of toasted bread are placed in the tureen before serving the soup, which is strained over when ready. Consomme a la Florentine. Florentine gravy soup. A clear soup with small parmesan cheese dumplings. Consomme Dcslignac. Deslignac gravy soup. A clear soup with discs of poached eggs prepared as for the Consomme Christophe Colomb ; the eggs are left whole and are beaten with milk, and mixed with chopped parsley, celery, and truffles before poaching. Consomme d VEcossaise. Scotch broth. Consomme au riz. Gravy soup with rice. A clear soup with boiled rice. Consomme Bavioli. Ravioli gravy soup. A clear soup made of chicken and veal stock with little paste dumplings stuffed with force-meat. Consomme Pierre le Grand. Gravy soup, Peter the Great style. A clear soup with lettuce, turnips, celery, and preserved mushrooms cut into Julienne-shaped strips. Consomme, d la Sevigne. Clear soup, Sevigne style. A clear soup with small chicken dumplings.09 POTAGES—SOUrS Consomme d la chasseur. Gravy soup, sportsman style. A clear soup with small dumplings stuffed with potted game. Consomme d la Princesse. Gravy soup, Princess style. A clear chicken broth with small asparagus points, carrots, turnips, and green peas, the carrots and turnips to be cut in the same shape as the peas. Consomme au sagou. Sago soup. A clear soup with sago. Consomme au tapioca. Tapioca soup. A clear soup with tapioca. Consomme d la jardiniere. Jardiniere gravy soup. A clear soup with carrots, turnips, and celery scooped out into the form of olives. Consomme chiffonnade. Chiffonnade gravy soup. A clear consomme with a garniture of spring onion heads, green peas, and lettuce, leaves stamped out round, seasoned with green mint and tarragon leaves. Consomme d’abatis de gibier. Giblet soup, clear. Consomme de gibier. Clear game soup. Consomme aux quenelles de volaillc. Chicken quenelle gravy soup. A clear soup with chicken force-meat dumplings. Consomme aux queues de bceuf. Clear Ox-tail soup. Clear Turtle soup. Consomme d la tortue.100 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Consomme d la fausse tortue. Clear Mock Turtle soup. Bouillon aux ceufs. Gravy soup with eggs. Consommd a la Busse. Russian gravy soup. A clear soup with finely cut slices of carrots, celery, and leeks. Bouillon de volaille. Bouillon de boeuf. Bouillon de mouton. Consomme de volaille. Chicken broth. Beef broth. Mutton broth. Chicken gravy soup. Consomme aux pointes d'asperges. Asparagus gravy soup. A clear soup with asparagus points. Gonsommk aux vermicelles. Clear soup with vermicelli. Bouillon de veau. Veal broth. Tchy de soldat. Russian chicken broth. A clear soup made with chicken and veal stock and vegetables cut into small strips. B. Purees et potages Res.—Purees and Thick Soups. Bisque de crevettes. Shrimp soup (pink). A thick soup made of fish stock and shrimps. Bisque d'ecrevisses. Crayfish soup.PUREES ET POTAGES LIES 101 Bisque de volaille aux dcrevisses. Chicken and crayfish soup' A thick chicken broth with crayfish. Bisque de homards. Lobster soup (red). Bisque de langonstes. Langouste soup (pink). A thick soup, puree of sea crayfish or large lobsters. Potagc de grenouille. Filtered frog soup (white). Potage d’anguilles d VAllemande. German eel soup (white). Potage hodge-podge d VEcossaise. Hodge-podge. National Scotch soup, consisting of mutton broth, finely cut carrots, turnips, leeks, parsley, cauliflowers, and peas. Potage puree d la Castelainc. Castelaine soup (brown). A thick soup, made with beef. Potage aux huitres. Oyster soup (white). Potage d la Prince de Galles. Prince of Wales soup (brown). A thick mock-turtle, with small veal dumplings. Potage a la Windsor. Windsor soup (brown). A thick soup made with mutton, beef, and rice. Potage a la chasseur. Hunter’s soup (brown). A thick game soup with minced mushrooms and game fillets.102 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Potage a la Capri. Capri game soup (brown). A thick soup with minced quail fillets and cocks- combs. Puree cle gibier. Game soup (brown). Potage a la Peine. Queen soup (white). A thick chicken soup, with small chicken dumplings and rice. Potage cle likvre a VAnglaise. English hare soup (brown). Potage d la gentilhomme. Gentleman’s soup (brown). Puree of rabbit, pork, and ham, with minced sausages and mushrooms. Potage a la tortue. Real turtle soup (brown). Potage a la tortue fausse. Mock turtle soup (brown). Potage A la terapene. River turtle soup (brown). A kind of thick turtle soup, made with terrapin turtle. Potage a la Montglas. Montglas soup (white). A thick soup made of capon, with minced truffles and mushrooms. Potage lie aux queues cle boeufs. Thick os-tail soup (brown). Potage aux queues cle veaux cl Vlndienne. Indian calf’s tail soup. A thick calf’s tail soup with curried rice. Potage cle cailles. Quail soup (brown).PUREES ET POTAGES LIES 103 Potage de pluviers. Plover soup (brown). Potage de faisans. Pheasant soup (light brown). Pur tie de gibier d la Condi. Conde soup (light brown). A thick venison soup with lentils. Potage jrnree de veau. Veal soup (white). A thick soup made of veal. Potage puree de bceuf. Beef soup (brown). A thick soup made of beef. Potage Mulligataivny. Thick Mulligatawny soup. Potage al'Orleans. Orleans soup (white). A puree of fowls with tapioca. Potage de la Edgence. Regent soup (white). A puree of fowls with vegetables. Potage d la dzichesse. Duchesse soup (white). A puree of fowls, with minced chicken or game fillets. Potage d la Polonaise. Polish soup (light brown). A puree of beef and pork with sauerkraut. Puree de pigeons sauvages. Wild pigeon soup (brown). Potage depieds de veaxi. Calf’s feet soup (white). Purde de mufle de bceuf. Ox-cheek soup (brown). Potage purde de gelinotte. Grouse soup (brown). Purde de gibier d VAnglaise. Game giblet soup.104 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Pot age cle ris de veau d la Peine. Sweetbread soup, Queen style. Potage d’asperges d la Princesse. Asparagus soup, Princesse style (white). Asparagus puree served with points of asparagus and rice. Potage de lentilles d la Brunoise. Lentil soup, Brunoise style (light brown). Filtered lentil soup with fine-cut vegetables. Potage d la creme de riz. Filtered rice cream soup (white). Potage d'asperges aux quenelles. Asparagus soup with quenelles. A pur6e of asparagus with small force-meat dump- lings. Potage de fonds d'artichauts. Artichoke bottom soup (white). Potage IP au semoule. Semolina soup with cream (white). Potage puree de pois. Filtered pea soup with croutons. Potage aux epinards. Spinach soup (green). Potage d la puree de choux-fleurs. Cauliflower soup. Puree of cauliflowers with croutons. Potage d I’oscille. Sorrel soup (light green). A pur6e of sorrel.PUREES ET POTAOES LIES 105 Potage de matrons. Puree ol' chestnuts. Potage de carottes. Puree of carrots (pink). Potage purde de celeri d la creme. Puree of celery with cream. Potage pur be de poircaux. Puree of leeks with croutons. Potage d la Victoria. Victoria soup. A puree of potatoes ■noth cauliV \vei\s. Potage aux tomates. Tomato soup (red). Potage d la puree de concombre. Cucumber soup. Potage aux oignons. Onion soup, thick. Potage de sagou au lait. Sago soup with milk (white). Potage de vermicelle au lait. Vermicelli ■ up with milk (white). Potage de tapioca au lait. Tapioca soup with milk. Potage au pauvre homme. Poor man's soup (brown). A kind of flour soup, the flout’ ii ing roasted with butter or dripping to a light brown colour. Soupe d la biere. French beer soup (brown). Soupe d Voignon. Freud onion soup (brown). Potage d la Tyrolienne. Tyrolian soup. Barley cream soup with onions and carrots. Purde de pois verts. Green pea soup. Potage d VArgenteuil. Argent nil soup. Filtered rice and cream soup u i.i. asparagus points.106 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Potage a la Chartreuse. Chartreuse soup. A white cauliflower puree with tapioca. Potage d VEspagnole. Spanish soup. A brown soup with mashed onions. Potage cVesturgeon. Sturgeon soup (white). Potage a la Severin. Severin soup (grey). A Russian fish soup. Potage aux laitues. Lettuce soup (green). Potage,pur be cle champignons. Mushroom soup (light brown). Potage de macaroni au lait. Macaroni soup with milk (white). Potage a la St.-Germain. St. Germain soup (green). A puree of green peas with croutons. Potage a la Condi. Conde soup (yellow). A thick soup made with dried haricot beans. Potage d la Bomaine. Roman soup (white). A white thick soup with small rice dumplings. Potage d la pluche. Pluche soup (pink). Potato soup with minced carrots. Potage a la bonne femme. Good woman soup (green). Sorrel soup with chicken forcemeat dumplings. Potage d la Cricy. Cressy soup (pink). Puree of young carrots with rice or bailey.PUREES ET POTAGES LIES 107 Potage a VAmiricaine. American soup (red). Tomato soup with rice. Potage a la fermiere. Farmhouse soup (pink). Potato soup with minced carrots and turnips. Potage a la Parmentier. Parmentier soup (cream). Potato soup with croutons. Potage cle sanU. Health soup (green). Borrel soup, with cabbage, lettuce, and herbs. Potage a la Palestine. Palestine soup (cream). Jerusalem artichoke with croutons. Potage puree d la B retonne. Breton soup (cream). A puree of white haricot beans with croutons. Potage a la crtime d'orge. ■ Pearl barley soup with cream (white). Potage d la Mane-Louise. Marie Louise soup (cream). Pearl barley soup with cream and small chicken forcemeat dumplings. Potage au velours. Velvet soup. Carrot soup with rice and tapioca. Potage au vin de Bourgogne. Burgundy wine soup (brown). Potage dl'OrUans,maigre. Orleans Lent soup (white). White bread soup with milk. 7PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 108 Potage au pain bis d la Basse. Russian brown bread soup. Brown bread soup with poached eggs. Potage a la marecliale. Marshal soup (light brown). Bread soup with small crawfish dumplings. Potage a la creme d’avoine. Oatmeal soup with cream (white). Potage d la creme dc ble vert aux ceufs. Green corn soup with eggs (green). Potage Garburea Vltalienne. Garbure soup (brown). An Italian soup made of cabbage and bread. Potagedla bouille-d-baisse. Bouille-a-baisse soup (brown). Fish soup with onions, tomatoes, ifcc. Potage puree de canard dl'Anglaise. Duck giblet soup (brown). Potage puree cVaubergine. Vegetable marrow soup (white). Potage aux becasses. Woodcock soup (brown). Puree a la Chantilly. Chantilly soup (cream). Lentil soup, thickened with cream and egg yolks. Potage a la Flamande. Flemish soup. A white root soup. ■PUREES ET POTAGES LTES 109 Potage d la Bagration. Bagration soup (white). Veal broth with small chicken forcemeat balls. Potage d VIrlanclaise. Irish soup (brown). A thick mutton broth. Puree de poisson d la Bagration. Bagration fish soup. Fish puree with quenelles and white wine. POISSONS—FISH Aigrefin (merluche).— Fresh Haddock. A igrefin grille. Broiled haddock. A igrefin a la maitre d'hotel. Steamed haddock with parsley butter. Aigrefin etouffe. Steamed haddock. Filets d'aigrefins frits, sauce Tartars. Fillets of fresh haddock fried ; Tartare sauce. Able saute d la diable. Devilled bleak in butter. A lose au gratin. Baked shad, gratin style. Anguille.—Eel. / Anguille d VAnglaise. Stewed eel, English style. Anguille d la Tartare. Eel, Tartare style. Parboiled eel, cut in pieces, drained, dipped in batter, fried, dished up cn couronne with Tartare sauce in centre.110 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Jilanquette d'anguille. Stewed eel, white. Anguille a Vltalienne. Eel stewed, Italian style. Consists of stewed eels, with small rice timbales. Anguille en caisses. Eel in paper cases. Anguille a la matelotte. Eel, seaman’s way. Stewed eel with claret and mushrooms. Anguille d la broche. Grilled eel with parsley butter. Anguille glacee. Glazed eel. Rolled fillets of eel, broiled and glazed with a rich sauce. Anguille a la poulette. Fricasseed eel. Anguille a la Provencale. Fried eel, Tartare sauce. Friture d'anguille. Eel spitchcocked. Skinned and boned pieces of eel, seasoned, egged, crumbed, fried, and served with piquante sauce. Brochet.—Pike. Brocket frit. Fried pike. Brochet grilU. Broiled pike. Filets de brocket pique d la Colbert. Fillets of pike, Colbert style. Filleted pike, larded, steamed in the oven, with white wine sauce. Filets de brocket d la Lyonnaise. Fillets of pike, Lyonese style. Fillets of pike stewed in white wine, and garnished with small marble-shaped potatoes cooked in fish stock.POISSONS FISH 111 Brocket a In Castelaine. Pike, Castelaine style. Pike, inside filled with sliced truffles, tongue, and lard, braised, served with white sauce and a garniture of lobster meat, truffles, and oysters. Brocket d Vancienne. Pike, ancient style. Stewed pike, served with white sauce, garnished witli truffles, gherkins, mushrooms, and capers. Brocket d la r&moulade. Pike, remoulade style. Boiled pike served cold with a thick Tartare and mustard sauce. Brocket farci et grating. Stuffed pike, baked in gratin style. Brocket a la Cavonr. Pike, Cavour style. Broiled pike garnished with nouilles, grated horse- radish, and carrots, served with rich veloute sauce. Barbue.—Brill. Barbue bouillie. Boiled brill. Barbue an gratin. Baked brill, gratin style. Filets de barbue frite. Fried fillets of brill. Blanchailles au naturel. Plain fried whitebait. Blanchailles d la diable. Whitebait devilled. Bouille-d-baisse. French fish stew. Fish stew made from various kinds of fish and lobster flavoured with garlic, savoury herbs, and white wine. . Beignets de clames. Clam fritters. Beignets d’kuitres. Oyster fritters. Beignets de grenouilles. Frogs’ legs fritters.112 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Bcignets d' ecrevisses. Crayfish fritters. Bcignets cVescargots: Snail fritters. Buissons de homard. Bush of lobsters. Lobster dressed in a pyramidal form. Coquilles de monies. Scolloped mussels. Coguilles de homards. Coquilles of lobster. Stewed lobster served in shells. Scolloped lobster. Coguilles de poissons. Coquilles of fish. Stewed fish served in shells. Scolloped fish. Coguilles de crevettes. Coquilles of shrimps. Coguilles aux huitres. Coquilles of oyster. Coguilles aux gueues d’ecrevisses. Coquilles of crayfish tails. Petoncles gratifies. Scolloped collops. Cabillaud—Codfish. Cabillaud bouilli. Boiled cod. Cabillaud, sauce aux liuitres. Boiled cod, oyster sauce. Cabillaud d VAnglaise. Boiled cod with melted butter. Cabillaud au gratin. Baked cod, gratin style. Cabillaud bouilli aux capres. Boiled cod, with caper sauce. Cabillaud en coguilles. Cod fish in shells. Cabillaud d la Dieppoise. Cod, Dieppe style. Slices of cod, dipped in milk and flour, fried, drained, and served with white matelotte sauce.POISSONS FISII 118 Cabillaucl d la Portugaise. Cod, Portuguese style. Slices of cod fried, served with a sauce composed of tomato sauce, essence of anchovy, and mussels. Cabillaucl grille d la Colbert. Grilled cod, Colbert style. Slices of cod dipped in dissolved butter and well floured, grilled, and served with maitre d’hotel butter. Cabillaucl d V Indienne. Grilled cod with curry sauce. Cabillaucl frit, sauce anchois. Fried cod and anchovy sauce. Cabillaucl aux crevettes. Boiled cod and shrimp sauce. Crcibe farcie. Dressed and stuffed crab. Carpe.—Carp. Boiled carp. Baked carp. Stuffed carp. Fried carp. Carrelet.—Flounder. Souchet cle carrelet. Souchet of flounder. Boiled flounder with finely cut strips of carrots and turnips. Carrelet frit, sauce persil. Fried flounder, parsley sauce. Eperlans.—Smelt. Eperlans greetings. Baked smelts. Eperlans frits. Fried smelts. Eperlans d la cliable. Fried smelts devilled. Carpe au bleu. Ccirpe gratinee. Carpe farcie. Carpe frite.114 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Ecrevisses farcies. Stuffed crawfish. Escargots d l'Anglaisa. Stewed snails. Esturgeon.—Sturgeon. Esturgeon braisk. Braised sturgeon. Esturgeon d Vanchois. Boiled sturgeon with anchovy sauce. Esturgeon d la cardinal. Sturgeon, cardinal style. Boiled sturgeon garnished with quenelles of whiting and crayfish, and served with cardinal sauce. Papillotes d'esturgeon. Stewed sturgeon in paper cases. Dame d'esturgeon a la Milanaise. Sturgeon steak, Milanese style. Middle piece or steak of sturgeon stewed, garnished with eel-pout livers and crayfish tails. Goujon. A kind of whitebait. GrenoUilles /rites. Fried frogs. Halibute au gratin. Baked halibut. Halibute grilUe, same crevettes. Grilled halibut, shrimp sauce. Hareng.—Herring. Hareng frais grilU. Fresh herring grilled. Hareng au beurre, Broiled herring in butter. Hareng d la moutarde. Grilled herring with mustard sauce. Hareng d la maitre d'hdtel. Grilled herring with parsley butter.115 POISSONS—FISH Homard. —lobster. Homard d V Amiricaine. Lobster, American style. Lobster stewed in the shell with tomato sauce, red wine, and fine herbs seasoning. Homard d la Bechamel. Baked lobster, Bechamel style. Shells of lobster stuffed with a mixture of minced lobster meat, Bechamel sauce, and seasoning, and baked. Homard d la Suedoise. Lobster, Swedish fashion. Border of lobster meat and forcemeat, poached in a fancy border mould and sauced with anchovy sauce. Homard d la Gloucester. Lobster, Gloucester style. Stewed lobster, the meat only being dished up, and served with a sauce composed of pulverised lobster shell, butter, egg yolks, and meat extract. Homard farci. Stuffed lobster. Homard en mayonnaise. Lobster mayonnaise. Homard en salade. Lobster salad. Homard d l'Indienne. Curried lobster. Cotelettes de homard a la tomate. Lobster cutlets with tomato sauce. Homard au gratin. Baked lobster, gratin style. Huitres. Huitres grilUes. Huitres a la 'poulette. Huitres frites. Huitres en coquilles. Huitres d la Duxelles. —Oysters. Grilled oysters. Fricasseed oysters. Fried oysters. Scolloped oysters. Oyster stew baked in shells.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 116 Lamproie.—Lamprey. Lamproie sautee a la Francaise. Stewed lamprey, French style. Lamproie en fricass&e. Fricasseed lamprey. Limande.—Burt. Limande aux eperlans. Boiled hurt with fried smelts. Maquereaux.- Mackerel. Maquereau d la maitre d'hotel. Broiled mackerel with parsley butter. Maquereau a la Flamande. Broiled mackerel with Flemish sauce. Filets de maquereau a VIndienne. Fillets of mackerel, Indian style. Braised fillets of mackerel, served with a curry sauce diluted with white wine. Filets de viaquereau ait vin blanc. ■ Broiled mackerel with white wine sauce. Filet de maquereau au gratia. Baked fillets of mackerel, gratin style. Maquereau a Veau de sel. Boiled mackerel. Maquereau au persil. Boiled mackerel and parsley sauce. Maquereau d la Boulonnaise. Mackerel, Boulonese style. Boiled mackerel, garnished with mussels and oysters, served with white fish sauce. Maquereau bouilli, sauce cdpres. .1.. Boiled mackerel and caper sauce.117 POISSONS FISH M erlan —W hitin g. Merlan bouilli d VAnglaise. Boiled whiting with parsley sauce. Merlans grilles. Boiled whiting. Marians au gratin. Baked wMting, gratin style. Filets cle merlans d la maitre cl'hotel. Fillets of whiting, hotel-keeper’s style. Broiled fillets of whiting done in parsley butter. Filets cle merlans d la comtesse. Fillets of whiting, countess style. Baked fillets of whiting, dressed in paper cases with a garnish of crayfish tails and liver forcemeat balls. Filets cle merlans frits d la tomate. Fried fillets of whiting and tomato sauce. Merlan frit d la Franqaise. Fried whiting, French style. The fish is wiped, and scored along the sides, but not skinned, dipped in milk, well floured, and fried in fat until crisp, served with anchovy or shrimp sauce. Filets cle merlans d I'Orly. Fillets of whiting, Orly style. Filleted whiting, seasoned, dipped in white of egg and flour, fried crisp, and served with tomato sauce. Merlan d VItalienne. Whiting, Italian style. Steamed whiting with brown mushroom sauce. Merlans d la bonne femme. Stewed whiting with Bordelaise sauce. Blanquette cle merlans. Filleted whiting fricasseed. Merluche ou Aigrefin.—Haddock. Merluche Houffee. Steamed haddock. Merluche cuite au four. Haddock baked in the oven.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 118 Morue.—Salt Cod. Morue d la capucine. Boiled salt cod with egg sauce. Tele de morue aux huitres. Cod’s head with oyster sauce. Morue aux fines herbes. Broiled salt cod, with fine herb butter. Moules.—Mussels. Moules d la mariniere. Stewed mussels with onion and parsley sauce. Moules a la Bourguignonne. Stewed mussels in red wine. Moules en coquilles. Scolloped mussels. Moules a la poulette. Stewed mussels in white sauce. Moules d la Californie. Mussels, California style. Stewed mussels with slightly fried sliced tomatoes, chopped onions, parsley, and veloute sauce. Ombre.— Grayling. Ombre au bleu. Boiled grayling. Ombre a la maitre d'ho tel. Broiled grayling with parsley butter. Plie. —Plaice. Pile frite. Fried plaice. Filets de plie au vin blanc. Fillets of plaice with white wine sauce.119 rOISSONS— FISH Filets de pile frite d la Tartare. Fried fillets of plaice, Tartare sauce. Filets de plie, sauce persil. Broiled fillets of plaice, parsley sauce. Filets de plie frite, sauce anchois. Fried fillets of plaice, anchovy sauce. Raie. — Skate. Raie a la poulette. Boiled skate with parsley sauce. Rale au beurre noir. Boiled skate with brown butter. Rougets.—Red Mullet. Rougets d VItalienne. Broiled red mullet with Italian sauce. Rougets au gratin. Baked red mullet, gratin style. Rougets aux fines herbes. Stewed red mullet, with fine herbs sauce. Rougets grilles, sauce ravigote. Grilled mullets and ravigote sauce. Rougets au beurre fondu. Broiled mullets with melted butter. Rougets en papillotes. Red mullets in papers. The fish after being prepared for cooking are wrapped separately in oiled paper, the ends are twisted, they are then broiled, dished up, and served with fine herbs sauce. Renke a la broche. Grilled renk.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 120 Saumon.—Salmon. Saumon bouilli, sauce hollandaise. Boiled salmon, Dutch sauce. Saumon grille au beurre d'anchois. Grilled salmon with anchovy butter. Saumon grille au persil. Grilled salmon with parsley butter. Saumon a la Michat Pacha. Boiled salmon with date sauce. Saumon a la Godard. Salmon, Godard style. Braised salmon with a collection of stewTed vegeta- bles, dressed round the dish. Saumon a la Victoria. Salmon, Victoria style. Broiled salmon, with stewed oysters, crawfish dump- lings, and Madeira sauce. Saumon a la Piemontaise. Salmon, Piedmontese style. Fried fillets of salmon, garnished with timbale- shaped rice dumplings and tomato sauce. Saumon a la Hollandaise. Boiled salmon with Dutch sauce. Saumon d la Rothschild. Salmon, Rothschild style. Also called Saumon a la Perigueux. Broiled salmon trout stuffed with truffles, and ser- ved with truffle sauce. Saumon en tranches d la meuniere. Slices of salmon, meuniere style. Slices of salmon braised and served with a rich brown sauce flavoured with savoury herbs.121 POISSONS—FISH Filets cle saumon sautes d la P&rigueux. Braised fillets of salmon with truffle sauce. Hare de saumon aux truffcs. Braised salmon’s head with truffles. Escalopes de saumon d VIndienne. Salmon cutlets fried with curry sauce and rice. Paupiettes de saumon aux huitres. Paupiettes of salmon with oysters. Boiled fillets of salmon with stewed oysters braised and served with a rich brown sauce. Mayonnaise de saumon. Salmon mayonnaise. Queue de saumon aux huitres. Braised tail-piece of salmon with stewed oysters. Dames de saumon aux fines herbes. Grilled salmon steak with parsley sauce. Paupiettes de saumon a la regence. Salmon paupiettes, Begent style. Boiled fillet of salmon, stuffed and served with Regent sauce. Saumon d la Richelieu. Salmon, Bichelieu style. Grilled pickled salmon with tomato sauce. Escalope de saumon d la Nantaise. Collops of salmon, cut from the tail piece, seasoned and broiled in butter, dished up alternately with thin collops of lobster, dressed with stewed oysters and lobster sauce. Dame de saumon d Vamiral. Boiled middle-cut of salmon skinned, dished up, sauced with a lightly buttered brown fish sauce, and garnished with fried oysters and lobster collops.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 122 Dame de saumon a la Ghambord. Boiled middle-cut of salmon, skinned, dished up, garnished with fish quenelles, heads of mushrooms, cooked oysters, slices of truffles and a few cooked crayfish, sauced with a rich brown fish sauce. Grenadins de saumon a la Vinitienne. Fillets of salmon, larded, seasoned and braised, dressed in a circle alternately with heart-shaped bread croutons, sauced with a well-buttered parsley sauce. Dure de saumon a la Cambacer&s. Braised head-piece of salmon, garnished with small truffles, mushrooms, and stoned olives, sauced with a rich brown fish sauce seasoned with cayenne and lemon juice. Dure de saumon d la Provencale. Braised head-piece of salmon, garnished with stoned parboiled olives, served with a brown fish sauce, flavoured with chopped shallots, parsley, garlic, and lemon juice. Sole—Sole. Sole grillee a la maitre d'hotel. Grilled sole with parsley butter. Sole au gratin. Baked sole, gratin style. Sole frite a I'Anglaise. Fried sole, with anchovy sauce or melted butter. Sole frite a la Colbert. Sole, Colbert style. Fried sole, stuffed with fine herb butter.POISSONS—FISH 123 I Sole au viu blanc. Braised sole, with white wine sauce. Sole jrite d la gastronome. Stuffed fried sole with shrimp sauce. Filets lie sole d I'Orly. Fillets of sole, Orly style. Fried fillets of sole with tomato sauce and fried parsley. Filets de sole d la Joinville. Fillets of sole, Joinville style. Rolled fillets of sole, dressed with truffles, prawns, crawfish, smelts, and small fish quenelles. Mayonnaise de sole. Mayonnaise of soles. Soles en souchet. Souehet of soles. Boiled soles with finely-cut strips of carrot and turnips and chopped parsley. Escalopes de soles d la Vernon. Scallops of soles, Vernon style. Braised fillets of soles dressed on rice, garnished wdth stewed oysters and mussels. Filets de sole a la Dauphine. Sole fillets spread over with a mixture of force- meat, chopped shallots, parsley, and mushrooms, folded, braised, pressed, pared when cold, egged, crumbed, fried, dished up, and served with lobster sauce. Lobster claws are inserted in the small end of each fillet. Filets de sole a la Trouville. Folded fillets, seasoned, broiled in sauffl pan with white wine and mushroom juice, dressed with mush- rooms, oysters, fresh bread crumbs, and white sauce. •Surface coloured in oven and served. 8PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 124 Filets cle sole d la Mar&chale. Stewecl fillets of sole in white sauce well reduced, set to cool, after which they are shaped, crumbed, egged, and crumbed again, fried in clarified butter, dressed in a circular form on a folded napkin. Bechamel sauce is served with them in a sauce-boat. Filets de sole d la Venitienne. Folded fillets, done in the saute pan, with seasoning, white wine, butter, and parsley, dressed en couronne, garnished with mushroom heads, sauced with a rich liollandaise sauce. . Hdtelets de sole d la Villeroi. Rolled sole fillets stuffed with forcemeat, placed on silver skewers, seasoned, crumbed, and baked in the saute pan. A slightly buttered tomato sauce is served with them. Sterlet.—Sterlet. Sterlet a la Pacsse. Sterlet, Russian style. Broiled sterlet with braised button onions, small ball- shaped fried potatoes, and anchovy sauce. Sterlet au bleu. Boiled sterlet. Tanche.—Tenche. Tanche au bleu. Boiled tench. Tanche d la maitre cVlidtel. Broiled tench with parsley butter. Tanche cjrillce au beurre cVanchois. Grilled tench with anchovy butter.125 POISSONS FISII Tiuite.—Trout. Truite au bleu. Trout boiled in water and white wine flavoured with herbs. Truite a la meuniere. Trout, meuniere style. Braised trout served with burnt butter, bread crumbs, and chopped parsley. Truite frite. Fried trout. Truite a la uiaitre d'hotel. Broiled trout with parsley butter. Truite au beurre cl'anchors. Broiled trout with anchovy butter. Filets de truite d la tomate. Fried fillets of trout with tomato sauce. Truite saumonee bouillie. Boiled salmon trout. Filets de truite au vin blanc. Broiled fillets of trout with white wine sauce. Truite marinee. Soused or pickled trout. Truite d la vinaigrette. Trout, vinaigrette style. Cold boiled trout served with vinegar and oil dressing, chopped gherkins, capers, and parsley. Truite aux petits pois. Broiled trout with green peas. Tuibot.—Turbot. Turbot bouilli. Boiled turbot. Filets de turbot frits. Fried fillets of turbot. Turbot, sauce aux huitres. Boiled turbot and oyster sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 126 Turbot, sauce aux crevettes. Boiled turbot and shrimp sauce. Turbot, sauce homard. Boiled turbot and lobster sauce. Filets de turbot au vin blanc. Broiled fillets of turbot with white wine sauce. Filets de turbot a la maitre d'hotel. Broiled fillets of turbot with parsley butter. Turbot, sauce aux ceufs. Boiled turbot and egg sauce. Turbot, sauce aux anchois. Boiled turbot and anchovy sauce. Turbot d la Reynicre. Turbot, Reyniere style. Stewed turbot served in shells, dressed with shrimp sauce. RELEVES ET GROSSES PIECES. REMOVES. Dishes served after hors-d’oeuvre or after fish, as top and bottom dishes (as they are designated in England). Aloyau de bceuf braise. Braised sirloin of beef. Aloyau de bceuf braise d VEspagnole. Braised sirloin of beef with button onions. Aloyau de bceuf braise d la Nivernaise. Braised sirloin of beef with small round French carrots.RELEVES—REMOVES 127 Aloyau de bceuf a la Flamande. Braised sirloin of beef with various kinds of vegetables dressed round the dish. Bceuf braise d la mode. Braised beef with vegetables. Bceuf bouilli d VAnglaise. Salt boiled beef with carrots, turnips, and suet dumplings. Bceuf bouilli d la Franqaisc. Boiled beef with carrots and turnips. Btwf bouilli d la Busse. Boiled beef with cucumber salad. Bceuf bouilli a la jardiniere. Parboiled and braised beef with small spring vege- tables. Bceuf bouilli aux cdpres. Boiled beef with caper sauce. Beefsteak pie d VAnglaise. English steak pie. Cote de bceuf braise. Braised boned ribs of beef. Cote de bceuf braisd d la Flamande. Braised boned ribs of beef with turnips and small stuffed spring cabbages. Chdteaubriant a la jardiniere. Double fillet steak with braised spring vegetables. Cote de bceuf braise a la Normande. Braised ribs of beef with mashed potatoes and young French carrots glazed. Chdteaubriant aux truffes. Double fillet steak with truffle sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 128 Cote de bceuf braise a la Saint Hubert. Braised ribs of beef with stuffed cabbages, lettuces, and braised button onions. Calotte de bceuf braise d VEspacjnole. Braised round of beef with braised button onions. Calotte de bceuf d VAncjlaise. Boiled round of beef, with vegetables and dumplings. Piece de bceuf fumee d la Piemontaisc. Smoked and braised beef, with macaroni and to- matoes. Entrecote d VItalienne. Grilled rump-steak with spinach, braised tomatoes, and mashed potatoes. Entrecote a VAllemandc. Grilled rump-steak with mashed potatoes and grated horse radish. Entrecote d la Saint-Cloud. Grilled rump-steak with small patties filled with mashed green peas, beans, and young round carrots. Entrecote d la Francaise. Grilled steak with stuffed tomatoes and fried potatoes, dumplings. Entrecote d la Bordelaise. Grilled steak with slices of beef marrow and Bor- delaise sauce. N. B.—All steaks for Entrecotes should be cut off from ribs of beef.RELEVES — REMOVES 129 Filet cle bceuf a la Richelieu. Braised and larded fillet of beef, garnished with stuffed tomatoes, truffles, and mushrooms. Filet cle hone/ d la paysanne. Braised fillet of beef garnished with celery, turnips, carrots, and young kidney potatoes. Filet de bceuf a la Palestine. Roast larded fillet of beef garnished with braised artichokes, parsnips, and button onions. Filet cle bceuf d la Louis XV. Braised larded fillet of beef garnished with stuffed fried potatoes. Filet de bceuf d la Parisienne. Roast larded fillet of beef garnished with small marble-shaped braised potatoes. Filet de bceuf d la Strasbourgeoise. Roast fillet of beef garnished with sauerkraut (pickled cabbages), rolled braised ham, Frankfort sausage, and mashed potatoes. Filet de bceuf d Vancienne. Braised fillet of beef, garnished with slices of hard- boiled eggs, crumbed and fried, braised haricot beans, and braised lettuces. Beefsteak cValoyau. Porterhouse steak. Filet de bceuf piquant. Pickled fillet of beef, braised and served with piquant sauce (see Sauces). Langue de bceuf braisee. Braised smoked ox-tongjie.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 130 Roast beef cl la, Celcstine. Roast boned sirloin of beef, with baked oval-shaped potatoes and rolled stuffed pancakes, cut into one-inch pieces, which are egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter, and served with the potatoes. Roast beef a la Piemontaise. Roast boned ribs of beef served with cooked rice boiled in meat gravy, spiced with saffron, and garnished with fried potatoes. Boeuf braise a la Bernoise. Braised beef with stewed nouilles and potatoes. Roast beef d la Lorraine. Roast sirloin of beef garnished with braised button onions, potatoes, and braised spring cabbages. Roast beef d la Palermo. Roast sirloin of beef (boned), garnished with braised potatoes and small stuffed vegetable marrows. Filet cle bceuf d la Clairemont. Roast fillet of beef, larded, garnished with braised potatoes and glazed chestnuts. Filet cle bceuf a la Toscane. Roast fillet of beef, larded, garnished with artichoke bottoms stuffed, tomatoes, and small braised Brussels sprouts. Quartier d'agneau d la Flamandc. Roast quarter of lamb garnished with braised turnips and small stuffed spring cabbages.RELEVES—REMOVES 131 Poitrine d'agneau d la Soubise. Stuffed breast of lamb with onion puree. Belle d’agneau a la Bretonne. Roast saddle of lamb with mashed white haricot beans. Selle d'agneau d ’la Milanaise. Roast saddle of lamb with macaroni and tomato puree. Selle d'agneau rotie d la Parisienne. Roast saddle of lamb with small marble-shaped fried potatoes. Gigot de mouton braise d la Soubise. Braised leg of mutton with onion puree. Gigot de mouton braise en chevreuil. Pickled leg of mutton braised. Gigot de mouton d VAnglaise. Boiled leg of mutton, with carrots, turnips, and cape? sauce. Gigot de mouton braise d la Turque. Braised leg of mutton with stuffed cuchmbers. Selle de mouton d la jardiniere. Roast saddle of mutton garnished with a mixture of spring vegetables. Selle de mouton d la principal. Roast saddle of mutton garnished with veal dump- lings, coarsely-chopped truffles, fried Parisian potatoes, rice, and Madeira sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 132 Gigot de mouton d la providence. Roast leg of mutton served with stewed chestnuts (whole), sliced mushrooms, and truffles. Gigot de mouton bouilli d l'Anglaise. Boiled leg of mutton garnished with boiled young carrots, turnips, cauliflower, French beans, and Brussels sprouts, served with caper sauce. Gigot de mouton braise, sauce poivrade. Pickled leg of mutton braised and served with pepper sauce. Cochon de lait braise. Braised sucking pig. Cochon de lait d la broche. Roast sucking pig. Cochon de lait farci. Roast stuffed sucking pig. S'elle de pore d VAlsacienne. Roast saddle of pork with sauerkraut, dumplings, and Strasbourg sausages. Carre de pore brciiso. Braised neck of pork. Gigot de pore frais, sauce Bobert. Roast leg of pork with brown onion sauce. Gigot de pore bouilli d l'Anglaise. Boiled leg of salt pork with carrots, turnips, parsnips, and pease pudding. Jambon au Madere. Boiled ham with Madeira sauce. Jambon de Westphalia braisd. Westphalian ham braised. Jambon d la Boeclerer. Braised ham with champagne sauce. Longe de pore farcie. Braised and stuffed loin of pork.RELEVES—REMOVES 138 'Carre <le veau garni. Roast neck of veal, garnished with braised vege- tables. Longe de veau d la Frangaise. Roast loin of veal garnished with stuffed tomatoes and potato croquettes. Longe de veau d la Genevoise. Braised loin of veal with steAved nouilles (flat macaronis), mushrooms, and truffles. Longe de veau a VItalienne. Braised loin of Areal garnished Avith rice dumplings and tomato sauce. Longe de veau rotie d la Montpensier. Roast loin of veal with stewed truffles. Noix de veau piquce. Braised cushion of veal larded. Noix de veau d la chasseur. Roast cushion of veal stuffed with' minced game and mushrooms. Noix de veau piquee a la chicor&e. Roast cushion of veal larded Avith puree of endives. Noix de veau a VAllemande. Braised cushion of veal larded, garnished with neAV potatoes (baked) and green peas. Poitrine de veau farcie d VAnglaise. Roast stuffed breast of veal (English style). Poitrine de veau d la Milanaise. Roast stuffed breast of veal Avith macaroni and tomato stew.134 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Selle de veau aux tomates farcies. Roast saddle of veal with stuffed tomatoes. Selle de veau aux champignons frais. Roast saddle of veal with stewed fresh mushrooms. Iiond de veau fcirci. Rolled loin of veal stuffed. Chapon bouilli a I’Anglaise. Boiled capon and bath chap. Gliapon braise d la Perigord. Braised capon and truffle sauce. Dincle bouillie aux huitres Boiled turkey with stewed oysters. Cimier de serf, sauce piguante. Pickled saddle of deer braised with piquante sauce. Cimier de chevreuil aux tomates. Braised pickled saddle of venison with stewed tomatoes. Gigot de chevreuil braise. Braised leg of venison. Fricandeau de chamois. Braised chamois fillet larded. Fricandeau de chevreuil a la broche. Roast fillet of venison larded. Gigot de chevreuil A la creme aigre. Roast leg of venison with sour cream sauce. Cuissot de sanglier cl la, Bourgogne. Roast leg of wild boar with Burgundy wine sauce. Feins de sanglier A la Mad ere. Roast loin of wild boar with Madeira wine sauce.RELEVES —REMOVES 185 Marcassin farci aux truffes. Roast young wild boar stuffed with truffles and forcemeat. Marcassin ci la broche. Roast young wild boar. Jambon de renne. Smoked leg of reindeer. Gigot marine de renne. Pickled leg of reindeer. Tete de vcau farcie aux truffes. Braised calf’s head stuffed with veal forcemeat and truffles. ENTREES LEGERES ET HORS- D’CEUVRE CHAUDS. EIGHT ENTREES AND HOT SIDE DISHES. Boudins, &c. Andouillettes. Bauveses aux truffes. Beignets de clames. Beignets d'huitres. Forcemeat balls. Truffled calf’s brain on toast. Clam fritters. Oyster fritters. Beignets de cervelle de vcau. Calf’s brain fritters. Boudin de volatile d la rcine. Chicken sausage, Queen style. Small baked sausages filled with finely cut chicken stew.136 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Boudin de gibicr a la Montglas. Game and truffle sausages, Montglas style. Boudin de volaille blanc. White fowl pudding. Boudin de Havre a la Richelieu. Hare pudding, Richelieu style. These consist of richly prepared and finely minced hare meat, baked and served with a rich truffle sauce. Boudin de sanglier. Wild boar pudding. Boudinade de veau. Yeal sausage pudding. Croustades. Croustades are shapes of baked paste crusts, or of fried bread crusts, on which minced meat or game is served. Croustades de macaroni. Macaroni croustades. Prepared with cooked macaroni, cheese, and tomato sauce. Croustades de volailles d la Pcrigueux. Chicken croustades, Perigord style. Stewed fillets of chicken with truffles baked in crusted cases. Croustades de venaison. Venison croustades. Stewed fillets of venison baked in crusted cases. Croustades de gibicr d la Vatel. Game croustades, Vatel style. Stewed fillets of game, richly flavoured with chopped truffles and mushrooms, served in fried bread crusts.light entrees and hot side dishes 1B7 Croutons au salmis de perclreaux. Partridge stew on toast. Salmis of very small boned pieces of partridge served on small oval-shaped pieces of fried or toasted bread. Bouchees. (See also Petites bouchees.) Bouchees are small puff paste patties, filled with certain preparations of minced fish, meat, or game. Bouchies de volaille d la reine. Chicken patties, Queen style. Bouchees d la Montglas. Chicken and sweetbread patties, Montglas style. Crepinettes. Crepinettes are small square-shaped meat sausages, wrapped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed, and fried in clari- fied butter or dripping. Crepinettes de volaille traffic. Chicken crepinettes truffled. Pheasant crepinettes. Plover crepinettes. Hare crepinettes. Wild rabbit crepinettes. Crepinettes de grives traffics. Fieldfare crepinettes truffled. Crepinettes de faisan. Crepinettes de pluvier. Crepinettes de lievre. Crepinettes de levraut. Coquilles. Coquilles are shells filled with coarsely minced meats, See., baked in the oven. Coquilles de volaille traffic. Truffled chicken coquilles.138 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Coquilles de champignons. Mushroom coquilles. Coquilles de cervelle de veau. Calf’s brain corjuilles. Coquilles de f raise de veau truff&e. Coquilles of truffled calf’s ruffle. Coquilles de truffes. Truffle coquilles. Coquilles de perdreaux. Partridge coquilles Coquilles de poulet d la cardinal. Minced chicken and crayfish tails in shells. Coquilles de ris de veau. Sweetbread in shells. Couscoussous de chevreuil. Fried venison meat dumplings. Capisantis d la Milanaise. Milanese capisantis.. llichly prepared minced Italian sausage with rice and parmesan cheese, baked and served in shells. Cannelons. Cannelons are puff-paste rolls filled with finely minced meats, &c. They are either egged and baked in the oven or egged and crumbed and fried in-clarified butter or dripping. Cannelons aux saucisses. Sausage meat cannelons. Cannelons a la pi*tie de volaille. Chicken paste cannelons. Cannelons d la puree de truffes. Truffle puree cannelons. Cannelons a la puree de gibier. Game paste cannelons. Cannelons a la pur&e de champignons. Mushroom puree cannelons.LIGHT ENTREES AND IIOT SIDE DISHES 139 Croquettes. Croquettes are certain prepared minced meats, &c., made into various shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Croquettes cle volatile. Chicken croquettes. Croquettes cle riz au salpicon. Rice and chicken meat croquettes. Croquettes de veau. Veal croquettes. Croquettes de foie gras. Goose liver croquettes. Croquettes de rognons de veau. Calf’s kidney croquettes Croquettes de gibier aux tneffes. Game croquettes truffled. Croquettes de perdreaux. Partridge croquettes. Cromesquis. Cromesquis or Kromeskis are small rolls of certain prepared minced meats, rolled in thin slices of bacon, dipped in batter, fried in hot lard or fat, and served with fried parsley. Cromesquis de volaille. Chicken kromeskis. Cromesquis de gibier. Game kromeskis. Crovicsquis aux huitres. Oyster kromeskis. Cromesquis d la Busse. Russian kromeskis. These consist of minced chicken, ham, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms. Cromesquis de pied cle pore. Pig’s feet kromeskis. Cromesquis de pluvier. Plover kromeskis. Cromesquis de homard. Lobster kromeskis. Croviesquis d'dcrevisses. Crayfish kromeskis. 9PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 140 Crakovies.—Crakovies. A kind of fritters made with tongue and truffles. Darioles. Small tartlets filled with certain minced meats, &c., baked in the oven. Darioles de foie gras atix truffes. \ Truffled goose-liver darioles. Dariole d la Perigueux. Fowl and truffle darioles. Friandines.—Friandines. These are made of puff paste. When the latter is rolled out thin it is cut with a 2-inch fancy round cutter, and a portion of the prepared mince of either meat or game, &c., is placed in the centre of each round, when it is covered with another round of paste, egged, dipped in crushed vermicelli, and fried in clarified butter, lard, or fat. Friandines de volatile. Chicken friandines. Friandines de gibier. Game friandines. Friandines de foie gras. Goose-liver friandines. Friandines de ris de veau. Sweetbread friandines. Friandines de poisson. Fish friandines. Friandines aux huitres. Oyster friandines. Friandines de homard. Lobster friandines. Friture d'huitres. Fried oysters. Barboiled oysters, dried, dipped in batter, fried in boiling fat or lard, and served with fried parsley.LIGHT ENTREES AND HOT SIDE DISHES 141 Petites bouchees.—Small Puff Paste Patties. Petitcs bouchdes d la Toulouse. Small puff paste patties, Toulouse style. These are filled with stewed fillets of fowl, cocks’ combs, truffles, mushrooms, &c. Petites bouchees d la princesse. Princesse patties. These are filled with coarsely minced ortolan fillets and truffles. Petites bouchdes d VAstrakhan. Astrachan caviare patties. Petites bouchees aux homards. Lobster patties. Petites bouchdes de volciille. Chicken patties. Petites bouchdes de gibier. Game patties. Petites bouchdes a la Peine. Queen patties. These are filled with coarsely minced white chicken stew, mushrooms, and truffles. Petites caisses. These caisses are small round or oval-shaped paper cases. Petites caisses de ris de veau. Sweetbread in small cases. Petites caisses de foie gras aux truffes. Goose liver truffled in cases. Petites caisses de champignons farcis. Stuffed mushrooms in cases. Petites caisses de moelle. Braised marrow fat in cases. Petits pates aux huitres. Small oyster patties. Petits pdtds aux cailles. Small quail patties.142 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Petits pdtis aux cilouettes. Small lark patties. Petits pates d la Joinville. Small chicken and truffle patties. Petits pains. Pains are made with certain kinds of prepared force- meat ; they are filled in small buttered moulds, poached in the oven, and served with rich white or brown sauces. Petits pains de cailles. Small quail force-meat puddings. Petits pains de foie gras. Small goose liver puddings. Petits souf/Us de poisson en caisses. Small fish souffles in paper cases. Petits souffles de volatile d la crime. Chicken souffles with cream in paper cases. Pilau a l’lndienne.—Indian Pillaw. A stew of boned fowl, cut in small pieces, minced onions, shred mangoes, dressed on small rice shapes. Pilau d la Turque. Turkish pillaw. Minced chicken and ham with rice spiced, seasoned with savoury herbs and sherry wine. Rissoles.—Rissoles. These are small half-moon-shaped puff paste patties, filled with certain prepared minced fish, meat, or game, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter, fat, or lard ; they are served with fresh or fried parsley garnishing.LIGHT ENTREES AND HOT SIDE DISHES 143 Rissoles d la Russc. Russian rissoles. Filling: Salpicon of minced chicken, tongue, ham, and mushrooms. Rissoles a la moelle cle bceuf. Rissoles of beef marrow. Rissoles de ris de veau. Sweetbread rissoles. Rissoles devolailled l’Indienne. Curried fowl rissoles. Rissoles de gibier. Game rissoles. Rissoles d la chasseur. Venison rissoles. Rissoles de bdcasse aux truffes. Snipe rissoles truffled. Rissoles de foie gras. Goose liver rissoles. Rissoles de homard. Lobster rissoles. Rissoles aux huitres. Oyster rissoles. Rissoles a la Hollandaise. Oyster and truffle rissoles. Ravioles. Ravioles a la Napolitaine. Neapolitan ravioles. These are small round patties made of a certain paste called Ravioli paste; they are filled with a mix- ture of grated parmesan cheese, yolks of eggs, and cayenne, baked in the oven and served with tomato sauce. Timbales.—Timbales. The word means a cup, bowl, or beaker in cookery; they are certain kinds of meat or game puddings, cooked in cup-shaped moulds, either baked or poached. Timbale de cailles. Quail timbale. Timbale de perdreaux. Partridge timbale. Timbale de gibier. Game timbale. Timbale d la Talleyrand. Force-meat and ox-tongue timbale.144 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ENTREES FROIDES COED ENTREES These consist of cold fricassees, salmis, cutlets; ham, tongue, fillets of game, poultry and fish, aspics, salads of poultry, fish or shell-fish, boar’s head, potted meats, dec. They are appropriate for ball suppers, banquets, and on occasions where cold collations are conveniently served. Aspic d'anguilles. Aspic d'ccrevisses. Aspic de saicmon. Aspic de Jiomard. Eels dressed in savoury jelly. Crayfish in savoury jelly. Salmon salad in savoury jelly. Lobster salad in savoury jelly. Aspic auxeeufs depluvier. Plover’s eggs in savoury jelly (with macedoine of vegetables, green peas, and truffles). Aspic de ris de veau. Sweetbread in savoury jelly. Gervelle de veau en aspic. Calf’s brain in savoury jelly. Filets de soles en aspic. Fillets of soles in savoury jelly. Cotelettes de mouton en belle vue. Mutton cutlets masked with sauce, dressed cold in savoury jelly with macedoine of vegetables, lettuce, endive, and truffles. Cotelettes de foie gras en aspic. Goose liver cutlets in savoury jelly.145 ENTREES FROIDES COLD ENTREES Cuisses de volatile en belle vice. Legs of chicken, masked with cold sauce, dressed in savoury jelly with macedoine of vegetables and truffles. Salade de poulets. Chicken salad. Mayonnaise de volatile. Chicken mayonnaise. Chaud-froid de poulets. Masked chicken fillets dressed in savoury jelly. Galantine de poulets. Chicken galantine with savoury jelly. Cotelettes de volatile ci la Busse. Cold chicken cutlets, truffled and larded, dressed in savoury jelly and mayonnaise sauce. Pain de volatile aux truffes d Vaspic. Small chicken forcemeat puddings, truffled, served with savoury jelly. Galantine de dinde aux truffes. Turkey galantine with truffles. Chaud-froid de perdreaux. Masked partridge fillets dressed in savoury jelly. Chaud-froid de brasses. Masked woodcock fillets dressed in savoury jelly. Chaud-froid de cailles. Masked boned quails dressed in savoury jelly. Chaud-froul de coq de bruyere. Masked heath cock or grouse fillets dressed in sa- voury jelly. Chaud-froid de rjelinottes. Masked hazel-hen fillets dressed in savoury jelly.146 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Pains de gibier d la gelee. Small game forcemeat puddings. Pains de foie gras d la Perigord. Small goose liver puddings with truffles. Cotelettes de sanglier en mayonnaise. Wild boar cutlets dressed with mayonnaise sauce and savoury jelly. Cotelettes de chevreuil en gelee. Venison cutlets dressed Avith savoury jelly. Cotelettes de veau en belle vue. Veal cutlets truffled, dressed in savoury jelly with macedoine of vegetables. Galantine de veau en aspic. Veal galantine in savoury jelly. Galantine P ortolans en chaud-froid. Stuffed ortolan galantine truffled and masked, gar- nished with truffles and macedoine of vegetables, dressed in savoury jelly. Cog de hois en gelee. Cold black grouse in savoury jelly. Pate de cailles froid. Cold quail raised pie. Pate de pintade. Cold guinea fowl pie. Pate de pigeons froid. Cold pigeon pie. Pate froid de veau d VAnglaise. Cold veal and ham pie. Pdtd froid de saumon. Cold salmon pie. Mayonnaise de poissons. Fish mayonnaise. Chaud-froid de faisan. Masked pheasant fillets dressed in savoury jelly.ENTREES FROIDES— COLD ENTREES 147 Pate dc becasses aux truffes. Snipe pie with, truffles. Langue cle bceuf roulee d Vaspic. Boiled ox-tongue with savoury jelly. Salade d la Eusse. Russian salad. Coarsely minced ham, tongue, salmis, sausage, truffles, and mushrooms mixed with mayonnaise sauce and jelly, dressed in a cylinder-shaped mould, garnished with a border of macedoine of vegetables and savoury jelly. Salade d l'Italienne. Italian salad. Coarsely minced ham, tongue, Italian sausage, truffles, and preserved mushrooms; young carrots, French beans, and green peas mixed with mayonnaise sauce and savoury meat jelly, filled into a mould, and when served garnished with savoury jelly. Salade de cervelle de vcau. Calf’s brain salad with mayonnaise sauce and savoury jelly. Salade d’ecrevisses aux pointes d'asperges. Crayfish and asparagus point salad. Mixed with mayonnaise sauce and savoury jelly. Tartelettes d’icrevisses et de homard. Crayfish and lobster tartlets. Tartlet paste crusts, filled with minced crayfish tails and lobster meat, mixed with mayonnaise sauce and savoury jelly, garnished with crayfish tails, truffles, and sliced gherkins.148 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ENTREES VEAU—VEAL Ballotine de veau farcie. Stuffed rolled breast of veal. Blanquette de veau d VAllemande. Stewed veal with preserved mushrooms in white sauce. Blanquette de veau d la poulette. Stewed veal with sliced mushrooms in white sauce with finely chopped parsley. Blanquette de veau aux truffes. Stewed veal in white sauce with truffles. Blanquette de veau d VIndienne. Stewed veal in white sauce with curry and rice. Blanquette de veau, aux concombres. Stewed veal in white sauce with braised cucumbers. Carre de veait pique aux petits pois. Larded neck of veal braised, with green peas. Carre de veau pique d la crime aigre. Boast larded neck of veal with sour cream sauce. Carre de veau A la. puree de tornate. Braised neck of veal with tomato puree.149 ENTREES t YEAU VEAL Cotelettes de veau d la reine. Egged and crumbed veal cutlets broiled in fresh butter, served with demi-glace, truffles, and preserved mushrooms. Cotelettes de veau au naturel. Plain broiled veal cutlets. Cotelettes de veau grilUes. Plain grilled veal cutlets. Cotelettes de veau a la Bordelaise. Broiled veal cutlets, dished up with fried bread croutons and preserved cepes. Sauce : Bordelaise. Cotelettes de veau d la Par gar ski. Cutlet shapes of minced veal, egged, crumbed, and fried. Sauce : Demi-glace and tomate. Cotelettes de veau d Vecarlate. Plain broiled veal cutlets dressed alternately with heart-shaped slices of ox-tongue. Sauce : Tomate. Cotelettes d la maitre d'hotel. Plain broiled veal cutlets served with maitre d’ hotel sauce. Cotelettes de veau d VAllemande. Crumbed veal cutlets fried, dressed round potato puree. Sauce: Demi-glace. Cdtelettes de veau d VItalienne. Plain broiled veal cutlets with Italian sauce. Cotelettes de veau d la chicorde. Broiled veal cutlets with mashed chicory. Cotelettes de veau aux iipinards. Broiled veal cutlets with mashed spinach.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 150 Cotelettes de veau a la Zingara. Fried veal cutlets dished up alternately with cutlet- shaped slices of broiled ham. Sauce : Madere. Cotelettes cle veau sautees. Broiled veal cutlets with gravy sauce. Cotelettes de veau en crepinettes. Veal cutlets wrapped in pig’s net, egged, crumbed, and fried. Cotelettes de veau en papillotes. Stuffed veal cutlets braised, served in paper cases. Cotelettes de Veau a la Parma. Veal cutlets egged and crumbed in grated parmesan cheese and fried. Cotelettes de veau a la Milanaise. Veal cutlets with small macaronis, stewed in tomato sauce and parmesan cheese. Cotelettes de veau, a la Singarat. Veal cutlets larded with small strips of smoked ox- tongue and braised. Cotelettes de veau d la Dauphine. Veal cutlets stuffed with chopped tongue and truffles, braised, and served with sauce Perigueux. Cotelettes de veau d la Soubise. Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets with onion puree. Cdtclettes de veau d la Moreland. Broiled veal cutlets with mashed fresh mushrooms.151 ENTREES: YEAU VEAL Cotelettes de veau a la demi-glace. Veal cutlets with brown sauce. Cotelettes de veau d la Saint-Cloud. Veal cutlets larded with strips of truffles, broiled in fresh butter, and garnished with forcemeat quenelles. Sauce: Allemande. Cotelettes de veau d la Prusse. Veal cutlets stuffed with truffles and finely chopped shallots. Cotelettes de veau a la martichal. Egged and cheese-crumbed veal cutlets fried, served with orange sauce. Cotelettes de veau d la Dreux. Broiled veal cutlets larded with tongue, streaky bacon, and pickled gherkins, served with a garniture of sliced mushrooms and sweetbread. Sauce : Tomate. Cotelettes de veau d la lorgnette. Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets served with rings of onions dipped in milk and flour and fried in clarified butter. Cotelettes de veau d la Cracovie. Broiled veal cutlets larded with strips of anchovy fillets. Sauce: Madere. Cotelettes de veau panties. Breaded and fried veal cutlets. Beignets de cervelle de veau. Calf’s brain fritters. Cervelle de veau au beurre noir. Broiled calf’s brain with brown butter.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 152 Cervelle de ve.au d la ravigote. Fried calf’s brain with savoury herb sauce. Friture de cervelle de veau. Fried calf’s brain. Cervelle de veau au gratin. Calf’s brain prepared with white sauce, baked in the gratin style. Cervelle de veau aux huitres. Broiled calf’s brain with stewed oysters and chopped parsley. Cervelle de veau a la Tartare. Fried calf’s brain with Tartare sauce. Souffle de cervelle de veau. Calf’s brain souffles in paper cases or shells. Cervelle de veau a la financiere. Boiled calf’s brain with a rich financiere sauce and garniture. Cervelle de veau a la derm-glace. Boiled calf’s brain with brown sauce. Cervelle de veau a la Milanaise. Fried calf’s brain served with macaronis and tomato sauce, garnished with ham, tongue, preserved mush- rooms, and truffles finely shred. Escalopes de veau aux petits pois. Veal collops with green peas. Escalopes de veau d la tomate. Veal collops egged, crumbed, and broiled in butter, served with tomato puree.153 ENTREES: VEAU—VEAL Escalopes cle veau d la Viennoise. Veal collops egged, crumbed, and fried, served with brown sauce, garnished with gherkins, olives, capers, fillets of anchovies, and hard-boiled eggs. Escalopes de veau d la Holstem. Veal collops, prepared as above, garnished with hard-boiled eggs, anchovies, gherkins, and capers. Escalopes de veau aux asperges. Broiled veal collops with stewed asparagus points. Escalopes de veau farcies. Broiled stuffed veal collops. Escalopes de veau, d la Perigord. Broiled veal collops larded with truffles and bacon, served with Madere sauce. Escalopes de veau aux epinards. Fried veal collops, with spinach. Escalopes de veau d la Savoisienne. Broiled veal collops, dressed in the centre of a border of small rice timbales. Sauce: Demi-glace and tomate. Escalopes de veau au jambon. Fried veal collops with broiled ham. Foie de veau saute dVAnglaise. Calf’s liver with bacon. Foie de veau saute a VAllemande. Sliced calf’s liver with savoury sauce. Foie de veau grilU. Grilled calf’s liver. Foie de veau frit d la tomate. Fried calf’s liver with tomato sauce.154 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Foie cle veau piqu&. Pains de foie de veau. Foie de veau roti. Quenelles de foie de veau. Larded calf’s liver, broiled. Small calf’s liver puddings. Roast calf’s liver. Calf’s liver dumplings. Foie de veau sauU, sauce piquante. Stewed calf’s liver with piquante sauce. Foie de veau pane. Breaded calf’s liver fried. Foie de veau braise a VItalienne. Braised calf’s liver with Italienne sauce (brown sauce with tomato puree, chopped shallots, and mush- rooms). Foie de veau d la bourgeoise. Sliced calf’s liver fried, garnished with braised carrots and button onions. Sauce : Demi-glace. Fricandeau de veau a la macedoine. Larded and braised segment piece of veal, garnished writh finely cut vegetables, termed macedoine de legumes. Fricandeau de veau aux champignons. Larded and braised segment piece of veal with stewed mushrooms. Fricandeau de veau d la tomate. Larded and braised segment piece of veal with stewed tomatoes. Fricandeau de veau au naturel. Larded and braised segment piece of veal served with plain gravy.155 ENTREES: VEAU VEAL Fricandeau de veau d la Begence. Larded cushion of veal, braised and glazed with its gravy reduced, dished up with a garniture oi veal quenelles, slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, and truffles. Sauce : Madere. Fricandelles da veau, sauce tomate. Yeal dumplings, first boiled, then egged, crumbed and fried, served with tomato sauce. Fricandelles de veau au gratin. Yeal dumplings boiled, placed in a buttered dish covered with bread crumbs and white .sauce and baked in the gratin style. Filets de veau a la Bechamel. Stuffed fillets of veal with Bechamel sauce. Filets de veau d l’Allemande. Boiled fillets of veal with white sauce and sliced preserved mushrooms. Filets de veau d la Frangaise. Braised fillets of veal, served with a brown sauce, mixed with a little tomato puree. Filets de veau farci d la Frangaise. Stuffed and larded fillet of veal, braised, served with brown sauce and marble-shaped fried potatoes. Filet de veau roti aux pommes pailles. Roast fillet of veal larded, garnished with very fine strips of fried potatoes. Filets mignons de veau d Voseille. Small broiled veal fillets with sorrel puree. 10156 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Filets mignons de veau d la pur&e de gibier. Small broiled veal fillets with game puree. Filets de veau d la Milanaise. Fried fillets of veal, garnished with stewed macaroni mixed with white sauce, pannesan cheese, and finely shred ox-tongue. Sauce : Tomate. Filets de veau a la puree de concombres. Broiled fillets of veal with mashed cucumbers. Filets de veau aux haricots verts. Broiled fillets of veal with French beans. Fricassee de veau a VAnglaise. Stewed veal in white sauce with sliced preserved mushrooms, served with fine rashers of bacon round the dish. Fricassee de veau a VAllemande. Stewed pieces of breast of veal in white sauce, gar- nished with crayfish dumplings, crayfish tails, asparagus, and sprigs of cauliflower. Fricassee de jraise de veau. Stewed calf’s ruffle in white sauce. Gateau de veau aux truffes. A bind of veal pudding baked and served with truffle sauce. Gateau de veau au bain-marie. Veal pudding poached and served with white sauce. Goulache de veau d la Hongroise. Finely cut broiled veal with pepper sauce.entrees: veau— veal 157 Grenadins de veau. Larded veal collops broiled. Grenadine de veau aux petits pois. Broiled larded veal collops with green peas. Grenadins de veau d la fermidre. Larded veal collops, braised, garnished with groups of cooked carrots, lettuce, cauliflower, and small round fried potatoes. Sauce : Demi-glace. Grenadins de veau d la tomate. Larded veal collops with tomato sauce. Grenadins de veau aux dpinards. Larded veal collops with spinach. Timbales de godiveau. A kind of small puddings made of veal force-meat, served with white sauce. Haricot de veau d VAnglaise. Stewed pieces of neck of veal, with braised button onions, green peas, carrots, and turnips. Hachis de veau. Minced veal with white sauce. Hacliis de mous de veau au viz. Hashed calf’s lungs with rice. Langue de veau a VItalienne. Boiled pickled calf’s tongue with Italian sauce. Langue de veau au gratin. Calf’s tongue baked, gratin style. Langue de veau aux petits pois. Braised calf’s tongue with green peas. Langue de veau a la poivrade. Braised calf’s tongue with brown pepper sauce.158 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Langue de veau cmx pointcs cl'asperges. Broiled calf’s tongue witli asparagus points. Langue de veau aux ep inards. Braised calf’s tongue with spinach. Langue de veau en papillotes. Braised calf’s tongue in paper cases. Langue de veau, sauce tomate. Calf’s tongue with tomato sauce. Longe de veau d VAnglaise. Braised loin of veal stuffed with force-meat and savoury herbs. Broiled rashers of bacon are served with this dish. Longe de veaic a la Francaise. Braised loin of veal, served with stuffed tomatoes and fried potato croquettes. Longe de veau farci cl VAUemande. Braised boned loin of veal stuffed with veal force- meat and bacon. Longe de veau d la Montglas. Braised loin of veal garnished with finely-shred tongue, truffles, cooked chicken meat, and mushrooms. Sauce : Demi-glace. Longe de veau d la Provengale. Boast loin of veal, stuffed with onions and force- meat, dished up with stuffed tomatoes. Sauce : Pro- ven^ale. Mous de veau d Vlnclienne. Calf’s lungs stewed, served with Indian pickle sauce and curried rice.ENTREES : VEAU VEAL 159 Noix de veau piqude d la Montpensier. Braised cushion of veal larded with truffles and bacon. Noix de veau d la bourgeoise. Stewed cushion of veal with braised button onions. Noix de veau d la Napolitaine. Stewed cushion of veal with macaroni. Noix de veau d la Westphalie. Braised cushion of veal, served with Westphalian ham. Noix de veau a la financiere. Stewed cushion of veal with cocks’ combs, cocks’ kernels, sliced mushrooms, and truffles. Sauce: Demi-glace. Noix de veau d la jardiniere. Braised cushion of veal larded, garnished with stewed spring vegetables cut small. Noix de veau d la Bechamel. Larded cushion of veal braised, served with Becha- mel sauce. Noix de veau d la gendarme. Larded cushion of veal roasted, served with a highly spiced brown sauce reduced with chilly vine- gar and tomato puree. Noix de veau d la Nivernaise. Braised cushion of veal, garnished with glazed turnips. Sauce : Espagnole, reduced with white wine. Noix de veau d la Lyonnaise. Braised cushion of veal, garnished with stuffed braised onions, glazed chestnuts, and small pieces of fried sausages.1G0 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Noix de veau d la Trianon. Larded cushion of veal braised, served with a puree of chestnuts and demi-glace sauce. Noix de veau a la Sarde. Larded cushion of veal braised, garnished with baked ravioli paste quenelles, which are previously boiled and are filled with spinach and parmesan cheese. Paupiettes de veau aux champignons. Rolled fillets of veal, larded and braised, served with sliced mushrooms and brown sauce. Paupiettes de veau aux tomates farcies. Rolled fillets of veal larded, served with braised stuffed tomatoes. Paupiettes de veau, sauce Madere. Rolled braised fillets of veal larded, served with Madeira wine sauce. Pieds de veau frits d la Tyrolienne. Fried calf’s feet with tomato sauce. Pieds cle veau d la poulette. Boiled calf’s feet with white sauce, sliced mush- rooms, and chopped parsley. Pieds de veau en fricassee. Stewed calf’s feet in white sauce, with sliced mush- rooms. Oreilles de veau, sauce tomate. Calf’s ears fried with tomato sauce. Oreilles de veau farcies, sauce tomate. Stuffed calf’s ears, baked, with tomato sauce.161 ENTREES: VEAU VEAL Oreilles de veau d la Lyonnaise. Boiled calf’s ears, cut into fine shreds, stewed in brown sauce, and served with toasted bread croutons. Queues dc veau sautd d la Lyonnaise. Stewed calf’s tails with fried onions. Queues de veau d VAllemande. Calf’s tails, stewed in white sauce. Queues de veau d VIndienne. Curried calf’s tails, with rice. Ragout de veau. Stewed veal -with sliced mushrooms, carrots, turnips, and button onions. Bagoilt de fressure de veau. Veal pluck stew. (Calf’s heart, liver, and lights is called veal pluck.) Ris de veau d la Saint-Cloud. Braised sweetbread larded, served with tomato sauce and truffles. Bis de veau, a la jardiniere. Braised larded sweetbread, with finely cut spring vegetables, served with demi-glace sauce. Escalopes de ris de veau aux huitres. Fried sweetbread collops with stewed oysters. Hatelettes de ris dc veau. Larded sweetbread roasted on silver skewers. Bis de veau aux dpinards. Braised sweetbread with spinach. Bis de veau aux petits pois. Braised sweetbread with green peas.162 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Bis de veau a la tomate. Braised sweetbread with tomatoes. Bis cle veau aux pointes cVasperges. Braised sweetbread with asparagus points. Bis cle veau a Voseille. Braised sweetbread with sorrel. Bis de veau a la chicoree. Braised sweetbread with mashed chicory or endives. Bis de veau cl VEspcignole. Braised sweetbread, dressed on a fried bread crous- tade. Served with Espagnole sauce. Bis de veau d Vltalienne. Braised sweetbread (masked with white sauce and breaded), served with Italienne sauce. Bis de veau frit, sauce tomate. Fried sweetbread with tomato sauce. Bis de veau a la Toulouse. Braised larded sweetbread, served with slices of sweetbread, truffles, chicken quenelles, cocks’ combs, prepared in Allemande sauce, garnished with fancy shapes of fried bread croutons. Bis cle veau a la financiere. Braised larded sweetbread, served with a garnishing of sliced truffles, cocks’ combs, chicken quenelles, and mushrooms, prepared in Madeira wine sauce. Bis de veau d la Montpensier. Larded sweetbreads, braised, served in a border of rice with truffles.ENTREES: VEAU VEAL 1G3 Bis de vcciu a la Rothschild. Braised sweetbread, larded with truffles and bacon. Bis de veau a la Turque. Boiled sweetbreads, cut into pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried. Bis de veau d la demi-deuil. Braised sweetbreads, larded with black truffles only. Bis de veau a la Dauphine. Larded braised sweetbread with mashed sorrel. Bis de veau a la chasseur. Stewed sweetbread served in a border of puree of game. Beignets de ris de veau. Sweetbread fritters. Bis de veau en papillotes. Sweetbread served in paper cases. Bis de veau d la creme sur hordure de riz. White sweetbread stew, served in a border of rice. Coquilles de ris de veau. Sweetbread stew baked in shells. Bis de veau au vol-au-vent. White sweetbread stew in a light puff paste crust. Bis de veau d la Villeroi. Braised sweetbread, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter, garnished with fried parsley, and served with tomato sauce. Bis de veau a la Colbert. Slices of cooked sweetbread, immersed in melted butter, sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs, and broiled. Served with Colbert sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 1G4 Bis de veau d la Matignon. Parboiled sweetbreads, slightly marinated in white wine and savoury herbs seasoning, braised, and served with demi-glace sauce. Bis de veau d la Milanaise. Larded sweetbreads, braised and glazed, served with stewed macaroni, flavoured with parmesan cheese, and mingled with finely shred ox-tongue, mushrooms, and truffles, served with demi-glace sauce. Bis de veau d la Duxelles. Fried sweetbreads breaded, served with veloute sauce, mixed with chopped parsley, cooked ox-tongue, and mushrooms, reduced with white wine. Bis de veau pique aux champignons. Larded sweetbreads, braised, served with mush- room heads or slices and demi-glace sauce. Papillotes de veau a la Maintenon. Boned veal cutlets, fried in butter, stuffed with force- meat and savoury herbs, placed in paper cases, baked, and served with fried parsley. Bognons de veau sautes. Stewed veal kidneys, thinly sliced. Bognons a la maitre d’hdtel. Stewed veal kidneys with sliced mushrooms and chopped parsley. Bognons de veau en demi-glace. Veal kidneys, barded, braised, and served with demi- glace sauce.ENTREES: VEAU VEAL 1G5 Rognons de veau grilUs. Grilled veal kidneys, cut in halves. Rognons de veau sautes au vin bldrtc. Sliced veal kidneys stewed with white wine sauce. Rognons de veau sautts au vin rouge. Sliced veal kidneys stewed in red wine sauce. Rognons de veau a la Demidoff. Sliced veal.kidneys, fried, mixed with sliced mush- rooms, chopped parsley, and sauce Madere, dressed in a border of stewed rice. Roulade de veau au Madere. Rolled fillet of veal stuffed and braised, served with Madeira wine sauce. Olives de veau d VAnglaise. Small olive-shaped rolls of thin slices of fillet of veal stuffed with veal forcemeat and bacon, egged, crumbed and fried, served with brown sauce and fried rashers of bacon. Saute de veau d la Marengo. Slices of cushion of veal, fried, and stewed with sliced mushrooms, chopped shallots, tomato and Espagnol sauce, flavoured with sherry wine, dished up in pyramid form, garnished with eggs fried whole in very hot sweet oil. Tendrons de veau. Yeal gristles, or veal tendrons, cut off the thick end of the breast of veal. Tendrons de veau aux concombres. Braised veal gristles with stewed cucumbers.166 PEACTICAL GASTEONOMY Tendrons de veau a la Provenqale. Veal gristles about two inches square fried in salad oil, with finely chopped onions and herbs, served with a brown onion sauce. Tendrons de veau d la Toulouse. Veal gristles stewed in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. Tendrons de veau aux petits pois. Braised gristles of veal with green peas. Tendrons de veau A VIndienne. Curried veal gristles, with fried rashers of bacon and boiled rice. Tendrons de veau frits a la Suisse. Braised gristles of veal, when cold cut into one- inch thick slices, egged, crumbed, and fried. Served with a brown sauce. Tendrons de veau d la Villeroi. Braised gristles of veal, when cold cut into slices, soaked in oil, vinegar, and herb brine, drained, dipped in frying batter, fried brown, and served with tomato sauce. Tendrons de veau, sauce piquante. Broiled gristles of veal, with piquante sauce. Tendrons de veau aux champignons. Broiled gristles of veal with sliced mushrooms. Tendrons de veau au veloutd. Braised gristles of veal done in veloute sauce.167 ENTREES: VEAU VEAL Tete de veau d lapoulette. Stewed calf s head in white sauce, with sliced mush- rooms and chopped parsley. Tete de veau en fricassee. Stewed calf s head in white sauce with sliced mush- rooms. Tete de veait d la uiaitre d'liotel. Stewed calf’s head in white sauce with chopped parsley (maitre d’hotel sauce). _ Tete de veau au gratin. Stewed calf’s head, haked in the gratin style. Tete de veau, sauce poivrade. Stewed calf’s head, with-pepper sauce. Tete de veau a la Sainte-Mtnehould. Stewed calf’s head dished in a well-buttered dish, covered with a mixture of veloute sauce, yolks "of eggs, and bread crumbs, baked in the oven. Tete de veau a la tortue. Stewed calf’s head (en tortue), with forcemeat dumplings (quenelles de veau), fried whole eggs, button mushrooms, yolks of hard-boiled eggs, sliced truffles, cocks' combs, cocks’ kernels, crayfish tails, and pickled gherkins, garnished with fleurons (little half-moon shapes of puff paste baked or fried). Tete de veau a la Robert. Stewed calf’s head with brown onion sauce. Tete de veau d la vinaigrette. Calf’s head, cold, with vinaigrette sauce (oil, vinegar, chopped gherkins, capers, and parsley). Garnished with hard-boiled eggs, anchovy fillets, and olives.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 1G8 Escalopes de tete de veau. Calf’s head collops. Square-cut pieces of boiled calf’s head steeped in oil and vinegar, sprinkled with chopped parsley, dipped in batter, and fried. Tete de veau a la Destilliere. Stewed calf’s head in brown sauce with sliced ox- tongue, gherkins, and mushrooms, garnished with pieces of calf’s brain and fancy shapes of pickled beetroot. Tete de veau a V Italienne. Stewed calf’s head in brown sauce, chopped mush- rooms, shallots, white wine, and tomato puree. Tete de veau d VIndienne. Curried calf’s head dressed in a border of boiled rice. TSte de veau en fricassee. White calf’s head stew or fricasseed calf’s head. Tete de veau frite a la Tartare. Boiled calf’s head pieces, pickled, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with Tartare sauce. Hachis de tete de veau. Hashed calf’s head. Tete de veau aux huitres. White calf’s head stew with oysters. Tete de veau dux champignons. White calf’s head stew with button mushrooms. Ragout de tSte de veau, d V Anglaise. Stewed calf’s head in brown sauce, garnished with calf’s brain fritters and toas'ed sippets of bread.1G9 BCEUF—BEEF Beefsteaks a VAnglaise. Small steaks cut off the sirloin or tenderloin of beef, pared, seasoned, dipped in oiled butter, and broiled, dished up with parsley butter on each, garnished with small round chipped potatoes. Beefsteaks, sauce piquante. Grilled steaks with piquante sauce. Beefsteaks, sauce tomate. Grilled steaks with tomato sauce. Beefsteaks, sauce Maclere. Grilled steaks with Madeira sauce. Beefsteaks aux champignons. Grilled steaks with sliced mushrooms and brown sauce. Beefsteaks aux nouilles. Grilled steaks with stewed nouilles and brown sauce. Beefsteaks aux olives. Grilled steaks with stoned olives and brown sauce. Beefsteaks a la Colbert. Broiled steaks, with Colbert sauce, composed of Espagnole sauce, meat glaze, chopped parsley, lemon juice, Cayenne pepper, and fresh butter.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 170 and tomato sauce. Beefsteaks a la Brisse. Small round steaks, slightly marinated, and broiled, served with well-reduced and highly spiced tomato sauce, surrounded with small heaps of mashed turnips. Beefsteaks a la Godard. Small round steaks, grilled, served with a well- buttered demi-glace sauce, garnished with sliced sweet- breads, mushroom heads, quartered artichoke bottoms, and truffles. Beefsteaks mignons a la Mirabeau. Small round steaks, basted with sweet oil and fried, served with Mirabeau sauce; composed of veloute sauce, meat glaze dissolved, fresh butter, chopped parsley, and lemon juice. Beefsteaks a la Bardoux. Thinly cut round steaks, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in a mixture of fresh bread crumbs, finely chopped beef-marrow and parsley, salt and pepper, fried briskly, and served with maitre d’liotel sauce. Beefsteaks a la Soyer. Small thickly cut steaks, dipped in oiled butter, sprinkled with bread crumbs, finely chopped chieves parsley and seasoning, fried, and served with a well- buttered savoury herb sauce. Beefsteaks a la Parisienne. Broiled steaks surrounded with new round fried potatoes, served with maitre d’hotel butter or sauce. Beefsteaks a la Turinoise. Grilled steaks, served with small nouilles-timbalesENTREES : B(EUF—BEEF 171 Beefsteaks a la Nivernaise. Braised steaks, served with small glazed carrots and gravy sauce. Chateaubriand a I’Hdteli&re. Double fillet-steak fried in butter, sauced over with a slightly buttered Bechamel sauce and a few drops of dissolved meat-extract. Chateaubriand a la Grecqne. Double fillet-steak grilled, served with fried egg- plants garnished round the dish, and Madere sauce with chopped parsley. Chateaubriand d la Rosny. Double fillet-steak broiled in butter, served with fried slices of cucumber and poivrade sauce. Chateaubriand d la B&arnaise. Double fillet-steak, basted with sweet oil and broiled, served with Bearnaise sauce. Chateaubriand d la V&ron. Double fillet-steak stuffed from the side with finely sliced blanched beef-marrow and savoury herbs, basted with sweet oil and grilled, served with echalote sauce. Chateaubriand d la Bruxelloise. Broiled double fillet-steak, surrounded with prepared Brussels sprouts, served with demi-glace sauce. Chateaubriand d la Lombarcle. Broiled double fillet-steak, surrounded with stuffed baked tomatoes, served with Mad&re sauce. 11PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 172 Chateaubriand d la Marseillaise. Broiled double fillet-steak, surrounded with groups of glazed carrots, button onions, and small pieces of fried calf’s feet, served with Bordelaise sauce. Chateaubriand a la Cordon rouge. Double fillet-steak basted with oiled butter, seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped ham and fresh bread crumbs, broiled gently, garnished with groups of sliced truffles, prepared Brussels sprouts, and small stuffed tomatoes, served with demi-glace sauce. Chateaubriand a la cliipolata. Broiled double fillet-steak, surrounded with glazed chestnuts, fried pieees of sausage, and mushroom heads, served mth tomato sauce. Cervelle de bceuf en matelote. Ox brains stewed in red wine sauce, with braised button onions. Cervelle de bceuf frite. Fried ox brains. Ox brains blanched, cut into pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried, or dipped into frying batter and fried. Cervelle de bceuf au gratin. Ox brains blanched, placed in a buttered dish, pre- pared and baked in the gratin style. Entrecotes a la Bearnaise. Entrecotes of beef broiled, with Bearnaise sauce. Entrecotes au beurrc d'anchois. Broiled entrecotes of beef with anchovy butter.173 ENTREES: BtEUF—BEEF Entrecotes d la Rockaway. Thick entrecotes of beef grilled, served with crisply fried onions (cut crosswise) and scraped horse radish. Entrecotes d la mcdtre d'hotel. Broiled entrecotes of beef with maitre d'hotel sauce. Entrecotes a la Bordelaisc. Broiled entrecotes of beef with Bordelaise sauce. Entrecdtes d la rnoelle. Broiled entrecotes of beef with blanched and grilled slices of marrow. Entrecdtes d la Parisienne. Broiled entrecotes of beef, spread over with shallot and parsley (chopped), lemon juice, and meat glaze, and garnished with small round fried potatoes. Entrecdtes aux pommes soufflees. Broiled entrecotes of beef with parsley butter gar- nished with puflf potatoes. Filets de bceuf an bearre d'anchois. Broiled fillets of beef with anchovy butter. Filets de bceuf d la maitre d'hotel. Broiled fillets of beef with parsley butter. Filets de bceuf aux fines herbes. Broiled fillets of beef with savoury herb sauce. Filets de bceuf aux champignons. Broiled fillets of beef with sliced mushrooms and brown sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 174 Filets de bceuf aux truffes. Broiled fillets of beef with sliced truffles and brown sauce. Filets de bceuf d la Bearnaise. Broiled fillets of beef with Bearnaise sauce and sa- voury herb butter. Filets de bceuf d la Parisienne. Broiled fillets of beef with fried potatoes. Filets de bceuf a la Palmeritaine. Broiled fillets of beef larded, garnished with stuffed aubergines and mashed potatoes. Filets de bceuf a la jardiniere. Broiled fillets of beef with stewed spring vegetables. Filets cle bceuf a la Bordelaise. Broiled fillets of beef with beef marrow and Borde- laise sauce. Filets de bceuf a VAndalouse. Braised fillet of beef, larded, garnished with glazed chestnuts, braised cabbage lettuces, and tomatoes. Filets de bceuf d la Henri IV. Grilled fillets of beef, glazed and served with Henry IV. sauce. Filets de bceuf aux olives farcies. Grilled fillets of beef with stuffed olives. Filets de bceuf a la Garfield. Small round fillet steaks larded, grilled, and served with finely cut julienne shapes of ham, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms, served with p^vrade sauce.175 ENTREES : BCEVF—BEEF Filets de bceuf d la Brillat-Savarin. Braised fillets of beef, larded, surrounded with groups of sliced sweetbreads, fried pieces of calf’s brain, and glazed button onions, served with demi-glace sauce. Filets de bceuf a la financiere. Roast fillets of beef, larded and glazed, garnished with slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, truffles, forcemeat quenelles, and turned olives, served with Madere sauce. Filets de bceuf d VAnglaise. Grilled fillet steaks, garnished with small scooped round potatoes, fried in butter, and served with a well- reduced Madere sauce. Filets de bceuf d la Moscovienne. Braised fillets of beef, larded, garnished with alter- nate groups of sliced mushrooms, small stuffed braised onions. Sauce: Demi-glace. Filets de bceuf d la Conflans. Braised fillets of beef, done in white wine and savoury herbs. Served with a garniture of finely shred ox-tongue, mushrooms, and truffles, and. a well-reduced demi-glace sauce. Filets mignons a la Duxelles. Small thin slices of fillet of beef, well seasoned, masked in Duxelles sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with echalote sauce. Filets de bceuf a la Royale. Braised fillets of beef, larded, surrounded with a garniture of forcemeat quenelles, stoned olives, sliced truffles, and small glazed lamb breads, served with tomato sauce.176 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Filets cle baeuf d la Claremont. Braised fillets of beef larded and glazed, served with a garniture of braised cucumbers and tomatoes, and small stuffed onions glazed. Sauce : Bearnaise with demi-glace. Filets de bceuf d la Sicilienne. Grilled fillets of beef, served with Sicilian sauce, which is composed of a well-reduced Madeira wine sauce with rings of fried onion in claiified butter. Filets de baeuf d la Polonaise. Small round fillets made from finely chopped lean tenderloin of beef and chopped suet, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified fat, garnished with small round fried potatoes and served with demi-glace sauce. ' Filets de bceuf d l'Athenienne. Larded fillets of beef braised and glazed, served w ith fried egg-plants sliced and Madere sauce. Filets de baeuf d la Gcmffe. » Boast fillets of beef larded, served with small beef marrow toasts and brown gravy sauce. Filets cle bceuf d la Daupkine. Grilled fillet steaks, larded, garnished with egged, crumbed, and fried cocks’ combs, sliced truffles, and served with Perigueux sauce. Filets de baeuf d la marinade. Boast fillets of beef (larded and pickled in vinegar and savoury herbs) served with poivrade sauce.ENTREES : BCEUF—BEEF 177 Filets de bceuf a la Provcnqale. Broiled fillets of beef surrounded with medium - sized stuffed mushrooms and tomatoes, served with Mad ere sauce. Filets de bceuf d la Vernon. Roast fillets of beef (pickled), served with a poivrade sauce, which is incorporated with a small quantity of prepared cocoa, red currant jelly, and mixed with blanched sultana raisins. Filets de bceuf d la Chateaubriand. Double fillet steaks, seasoned, basted with sweet oil, and broiled, served with small round fried potatoes and Chateaubriand sauce. Goulache de bceuf a la Polonaise. Sliced beef stew, with broiled bacon, and potatoes cut into diamond shapes, seasoned with Cayenne pepper. Fricind^au de bceuf a Voseille. Braised piece of rump or sirloin of beef, with mashed sorrel dressed round the dish. Croquettes de bceuf d VAnglaise. Beef croquets. Finely minced cooked beef made into square shapes, or balls, egged, crumbed, and fried. N.B.—Rump steaks, Porterhouse steaks, Tenderloin steaks, Sirloin steaks, Entrecotes, Fillet steaks, Beef olives, and Tournedtis may also be finished and served in a greater variety by substituting any appropriate garnish or sauce with their respective names a? herein indicated.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 178 sauce. Croquettes de bceuf a VItalienne. Fried beef croquets with Italian sauce. Bagout de bceuf d VIndienne. Curried beef stew with boiled rice. Boeuf saute d la Flamande. Braised pieces of rump of beef (rubbed with moist sugar when seasoned) garnished with stuffed spring cabbages. Bceuf saute a la bourgeoise. Coarsely minced broiled beef with braised button onions and brown sauce. Fricot de bceuf a la Charles X. Braised rump steak, when cold cut into strips, egged, bread crumbed, and fried, served with a brown shallot sauce. Beignets de boeuf a la minute. Cold pieces of- roast beef, well seasoned, dipped in frying batter and fried in clarified butter. Hachis de boeuf a la Franqaise. Sliced cold beef braised in butter and finely chopped onions, served with red wine sauce and chopped parsley. Hachis de bceuf a VAnglaise. Minced or hashed beef with poached eggs and fried bread croutons. Langue de bceuf a la Flamande. Braised ox-tongue, garnished with alternate groups of carrots, turnips, green peas, French beans, and braised spring cabbage, sauced over with a thick brown179 entrees: b(euf- beef Langue de bceuf a la Romaine. Braised pickled ox-tongue, served with sauce romaine, composed of Espagnole sauce, white wine, blanched cur- rants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignolis), chilli vine- gar, and a little powdered sugar. Langue de bceuf au gratin. Baked ox-tongue. Sliced boiled ox-tongue dressed on a buttered baiting dish, spread over with a mixture of brown sauce, fresh bread crumbs, chopped shallots, parsley and mush- rooms, yolks of eggs, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven, and served on the dish it is baked on. Langue de bceuf au Parmesan. Boiled ox tongue s-iced, arranged on a gratin disk, spread over with a mixture of white sauce, grated parmesan cheese, bread crumbs, chopped shallots, and fresh butter, baked and served in a gratin or baking dish. Langue de bceuf a Vlndienne. Curried ox-tongue with boiled rice. Langue de bceuf a la Robert. Stewed ox-tongue with brown onion sauce. Langue de bceuf A la Napolitaine. Braised ox-tongue, with stewed macaroni, tomato puree, and parmesan cheese. Langue de bceuf fumee aux petits pois. Smoked, braised ox-tongue with green peas. Noix de bceuf a la, bourgeoise. Braised piece of kernel or cushion of beef larded, finished in a richly flavoured brown sauce with a little tomato puree, garnished with braised carrots and button onions, and served with its sauce well reduced.180 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY sauce. Noix de bmif a Vetouffade. Stewed piece of kernel of beef with brown sauce. Olives de bceuf d VAnglaise. Thin slices of rump steak stuffed, rolled, and braised, served with brown sauce flavoured with Reading sauce chopped parsley, and thin slices of broiled bacon. Miroton de bceuf. Sliced cooked beef, broiled in butter and chopped onions and stewed in brown sauce. Lombaire de bceuf au Madere. Braised lumber of beef with Madeira-wine sauce. Oreilles de bceuf d la Sainte-Menchould. Boiled pickled ox-ears, when cold dipped in batter and fried in dripping. Paupiettes de bceuf d la Richelieu,. Sliced fillets of beef stuffed, rolled, and braised, garnished with forcemeat quenelles, truffles, mushrooms, served with Richelieu sauce. Palais de bceuf d Vlndienne. Curried ox-palate, with boiled rice. Palais de bceuf saute. Stewed ox-palates. Palais de boeuf aux macaronis. Braised ox-palates with macaronis. Palais de bceuf au gratia. Braised ox-palates, prepared and baked in the gratin style. Palais de bceuf grilles. Pickled ox-palates egged and crumbed, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled, served with a piquante tomato181 ENTREES : BCEUF REEF Palais de boeuf a V Italienne. Stewed ox-palates dished up in a circle alternately with fried bread croutons, sei'ved with sauce Italienne. Palais de boeuf d VOrly. Stewed ox-palate, spread when cold on one side with forcemeat mingled with savoury herbs, rolled, dipped in white sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with tomato sauce. Palais de boeuf d la Bavigote. Stewed ox-palates dressed in a border of fried bread, and sauced well with Ravigote sauce. Poitrine de boeuf frite a la Sainte-Menehould. Boned and braised breast of beef, cut into small slices, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Haricot de queue de boeuf. Stewed ox-tail, served with braised carrots and turnips neatly shaped, small onions, and white haricot beans. Queue de boeuf braisee aux olives. Braised ox-tail served with turned French olives and brown sauce. Queue de boeuf aux haricots verts. Stewed ox-tail with French beans. Queue de boeuf d la Hotch-potch. Hotch-potch ox-tail stew, garnished with glazed carrots and small onions (a national Scotch dish). Queue de boeuf aux petits pois. Ox-tail stewed, with green peas.182 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Rognons de bceuf saute. Stewed ox-kidney, cut into thin slices, with sliced mushrooms. Tournedos de bceuf aux olives. Small fillet steaks broiled, with turned olives. Tournedos a la Piemontaise. Small fillet steaks grilled, served with minced fried bacon, veal, and mushrooms, served with brown sauce and fried potato croquets. Tournedos a la moelle de bceuf. Small fillet steaks broiled, with beef marrow. Tournedos aux truffes. Small fillet steaks grilled, served with truffle sauce. Tournedos a la Bordelaise. Small fillet steaks broiled, served with a red wine sauce, with chopped shallots and braised button onions. Tournedos a la Viennoise. Small fillet steaks, chopped fine, seasoned and brought into shape again, broiled, served with brown onion stew, and garnished with fried rings of onions. Tournedos a la Napolitaine. Small fillet steaks grilled, served with stewed nouilles. Tournedos a la Nigoise. Small fillet steaks grilled, served with demi-glace sauce, mixed with tomato puree, garnished with stuffed olives.183 ENTREES : BCEUF BEEF Tournedos glacis. Small fillet steaks broileil and glazed, served with gravy sauce. Tournedos d la chasseur. Small fillet steaks slightly marinated, fried in butter, and served with chasseur sauce. Tournedos a la Colbert. Small round fillet steaks fried in equal parts of sweet oil and butter, dished up “ en couronne,” centre of dish filled with small round fried potatoes, garnished with bread croutons, and served with shallot sauce reduced with sherry wine. AGNEAU—LAMB Blanquette d'agneau a la creme. Fricasseed lamb, with sliced mushrooms and cream. Blanquette d’agneaxi aux petits pois. Fricasseed lamb with green peas. Cotelettes d'agneau a la jardiniere. Fried lamb cutlets with finely cut stewed spring vegetables. Cotelettes d'agneau aux petits pois. Broiled lamb cutlets with green peas.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 181 Cdtelettes d’agneau aux trujfes. Broiled lamb cutlets with truffles. Cotelletes d’agneau d la Singarat. Broiled lamb cutlets with finely shred ox-tongue and onion stew. Cdtelettes d’agneau a la marechal. Egged and cheese-crumbed lamb cutlets fried, with orange sauce. Cdtelettes d’agneau d la Norland. Fried lamb cutlets with truffle sauce. Cdtelettes d’agneau d la Robert. Fried lamb cutlets with brown onion sauce. Cdtelettes d'agneau aux cpinards. Fried lamb cutlets with spinach. Cdtelettes d’agneau a la princesse Partly-fried plain lamb cutlets dipped in a thick white sauce, mingled with finely chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, ham, powdered sugar, lemon juice, yolk of eggs, and grated nutmeg; when cold egged, crumbed, and fried, served with a puree of green peas. Cdtelettes d'agneau a la superlative. Lamb cutlets prepared as above, served with a puree of spinach. Cdtelettes d'agneau en papillotcs. Partly-broiled lamb cutlets wrapped in oiled paper w;th ends twisted in closely, baked in the oven, and served with demi-glace sauce.ENTREES : AGNEAU LAMB 1S5 Cotelettes d’agneau d la minute. Plain fried lamb cutlets, served with brown sauce. Cotelettes cl'agneau aux concombres. Broiled lamb cutlets with slightly fried cucumbers. Cotelettes d’agneau a la Villeroi. Broiled lamb cutlets, pressed, dipped in bechamel sauce, rolled in crushed vermicelli, egged, crumbed, and fried. Cotelettes d'agneau a la Sainte-Menehould. Lamb chops boned, and stuffed with a mixture of bechamel sauce, grated cheese, chopped shallots, mush- rooms, and parsley, fried in the oven, and served with Italienne sauce. Cotelettes d'agneau a la Maltaise. Fried lamb cutlets, served with Maltaise sauce, com- posed of veloute sauce, sherry wine, lemon and orange juice, and finely shred orange peel. Cotelettes d'agneau a la Cussy. Fried lamb cutlets, served with a slightly buttered veloute sauce, mingled with finely shred cooked ox- tongue and mushrooms. Cotelettes d’agneau a la duchesse. Braised lamb cutlets, masked with Duxelles sauce, egged, crumbed, fried, and dished up on a vegetable border, with a puree of green peas in centre, served with sauce supreme. Cervelles d'agneau d la maitre d’hotel. Boiled sheep’s brains with parsley sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 186 Cervelles d’agneau en matelote. Braised sheep’s or lamb’s brains with a red wine sauce, served with small discs of broiled bacon and glazed button onions. Cervelles d’agneau frites. Parboiled sheep’s brains, egged, crumbed, and fried. Coquilles de cervelles d’agneau. Stewed sheep’s brains, baked and served m shells. Beignets de cervelles d’agneau a la Turque. Parboiled sheep’s brains, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, fried, and served with tomato sauce. Chartreuse d’agneau d la gastronome. Boned breasts of lamb, stewed in white stock, cut into strips, ranged in a cylindrical mould, alternately in rows with boiled green lettuce stalks, stewed “ au bain- marie,” and served with demi-glace sauce. Carbonades d’agneau a la B&chamel. Larded fillets of lamb braised, and served with bechamel sauce. Epaule d’agneau a la Polonaise. Boned shoulder of lamb, braised, sliced, dressed in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes ; sauced over with a rich thick gravy, sprinkled over -with fried bread crumbs, egged, baked, and served with poached eggs on top of bordure. jEpaule d’agneau a la paysanne. Boned shoulder of lamb braised, served with a garniture of stewed sliced carrots, turnips, and peeled tomatoes. Sauce : demi-glace.entrees: agneau—lamb 187 Epaule (Vagneau bouillie. Boiled shoulder of lamb. Epaule cl'agneau farcie. Boned shoulder of lamb, stuffed and braised. Epaule cl'agneau a la Parisienne. Boned shoulder of lamb, braised, served with ecbalote sauce and small round fried potatoes. Epaule cl'agneau cglacee. Boned shoulder of lamb, rolled, braised and glazed, served with demi-glace sauce. Epaule cl’agneau a la Montmorency. Boned shoulder of lamb, stuffed with forcemeat, larded and braised, served with a garniture of cocks- combs, mushroom heads, truffles, chicken quenelles, and slices of sweetbread, done in veloute or Allemande sauce. Epaule cl'agneau a la Bretonne. Braised shoulder of lamb, served with a puree of white haricot beans and demi-glace sauce. Epaule d'agneau aux tomates farcies. Braised shoulder of lamb, with stuffed braised tomatoes and demi-glace sauce. Epaule d'agneau piquie, grill&e. Larded shoulder of lamb, grilled. Epaule cl’agneau d la Chevet. Boned, and larded shoulder of lamb, roasted and glazed, served witli a brown sauce reduced with white wine, mingled with chopped shallots and parsley. 121.88 PRACTICAL gastronomy Kpanic (Vagneau braisee. Braised shoulder of lamb. Epaule d'agneau roulcc aux petits pois. Rolled shoulder of lamb braised, with green peas. Epaule (Vagneau braisee aux truffes. Boned, rolled and stuffed shoulder of lamb braised, served with truffles and demi-glace sauce. Epigrammes d’agneau. Fried lamb collops. Epigrammes (Vagneau a la Perigord. Fried lamb collops, with truffle sauce. Epigrammes (Vagneau d la Napolitaine. Fried lamb collops, with stewed macaronis and tomato pur6e. Epigrammes (Vagneau a la Parme. Lamb collops egged and crumbed in bread and grated Parmesan cheese, and fried. Epigrammes d’agneau a la Dauphine. Partly cooked lamb collops, dipped in a mixture of butter and yolk of eggs, thickly bread-crumbed, fried and served with a puree of green peas. Epigrammes (Vagneau d la Bearnaise. Small lamb chops, boned, flattened, pared and fried in butter, when cold immersed in veloute sauce, dipped in eggs and bread crumbs, and fried in clarified butter or dripping, served with Bearnaise sauce in the centre of Epigrammes. Epigrammes (Vagneau d la Soubise. Lamb collops egged, crumbed and fried in butter, served with white onion sauce.189 ENTREES: AGNEAU—LAMB Epigrainrnes d'agneau d la Macddoine. Lamb collops egged, crumbed and fried in butter, served with a mixture of finely scooped or cut carrots aud turnips, green peas and French beans. Sauce : Demi-glace. Epigrammes d'agneau d la puree de marrons. Lamb collops, breaded and fried, served with chest- nut puree and gravy sauce. Foie d'agneau a I'Anglaise. Stewed sheep’s liver, with fried rashers of bacon. Foie d'agneau frit. Sliced sheep’s liver seasoned and fried. Fricandeau d'agneau aux petits pois. Fillets of lamb larded and braised, served with green eas done in fresh butter. Fricassee d'agneau. Stewed breast of lamb in white sauce, with chopped parsley. Fricassee d'agneau aux champignons. Stewed breast of lamb in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms. Fricassee d’agneau aux pointes d’asperges. Stewed breast of lamb, with asparagus points.- Fricassee d'agneau aux houblons. Stewed breast of lamb, with hop sprigs. Filet d'agneau a la venaison. Rolled boned loin of lamb, pickled in vinegar brine, flavoured with cloves, juniper berries, pepper and sa- voury herbs, braised and served with brown sauce mixed with sour cream.190 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Filets d’agneau d la Villeroi. Braised lamb fillets, masked with stiff Allemande sauce, egged, crumbed in bread and grated cheese, baked in a quick oven, and served with tomato sauce. Langue d'agneau braisee. Braised sheep’s tongue. Langues d'agneau marinees. Pickled sheep’s or lamb’s tongues broiled, and served with brown sauce. Langues d agneav, sauce Madere. Braised sheep’s tongues in Madeira-wine sauce. Langues d'agneau a la Duxelles. Broiled sheep’s tongues, spread over with a mixture of bread crumbs, chopped shallots, parsley and mush- rooms, butter and egg-yolks, dressed on a dish, sauced over with Duxelles sauce and baked in the oven. ( Langues d'agneau a la Soubise. Braised sheep’s tongues, served with white onion puree and brown sauce. Oreilles d'agneau farcies. Stuffed lamb’s ears, fried or braised. \ . Oreilles d'agneau frites, sauce tomate. Fried lamb’s ears, with tomato sauce. Oreilles d'agneau d VItalienne. Braised lamb’s ears with Italian sauce. (See sauces.) k Oreilles d'agneau gratin&es. Lamb's ears baked in the gratin style.191 ENTREES: AGNEAU LAMB Oreillas d’agneau a VIndienne. Curried lamb’s ears, with boiled rice. Queues d’agneau sautees. Stewed sheep’s or lamb’s tails in brown sauce. -Queues d’agneau au viz. Stewed sheep’s tails with rice. Queues d’agneau a la pur&a de pois. Stewed sheep’s tails dressed in a border of puree of green peas. Haricot d’agneau d VIndienne. Curried lamb stew, wi bh plain boiled rice. Haricot d’agneau d la Parisienne. Stewed neck and breast of lamb, in brown sauce, small cut carrots, turnips, and fried button onions, garnished with small round fried potatoes. Haricot d’agneau aux petits pois. Stewed lamb in brown sauce, with green peas. Haricot d’agneau d l'Ecossaise. Stewed lamb in brown sauce, surrounded with small forcemeat timbales lined with thin pancakes. Hachi.3 d'dgneau d la Provencale. Hashed lamb done in brown onion sauce, garnished with stuffed tomatoes. Pieds d’agneau a la Villeroi. Stuffed lamb’s feet, egged, crumbed in bread and cheese and fried, served with tomato sauce.192 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Piecls d'agneau d V Indienne. Fried lamb’s feet or trotters, with curry sauce and boiled rice. Pate de pieds d'agncau d VAnglaise. English lamb’s feet pie (served hot or cold). Pieds d'agneau d la poulette. Stewed lamb’s feet with parsley sauce, garnished with fried croutons or sippets. Pieds d'agneau frits. Fried lamb’s feet. Poitrine d'agneau braisee. Braised breast of lamb. Poitrine d'agneau d la Milanaise. Braised breast of lamb with stewed macaronis. Poitrine d'agneau d VEspagnole. Rolled stuffed breast of lamb, braised and served with Spanish sauce. Poitrine d'agneau aux aspcrges. Braised breast of lamb, with asparagus points. Poitrine d'agneau farcie d la Very. Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with veal forcemeat and braised, served with saute of French beans and demi-glace sauce. Poitrine d'agneau d la Turque. Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with sausage meat, braised, dressed in a border of stewed rice, flavoured with saffron powder, sauced over with demi-glace. Ragout d'agneau d la Flamande. Stewed breast of lamb with spring vegetables cut small.ENTREES: AGNEAU—LAMB 198 Ragoilt d'agneau aux petits pais. Stewed breast of lamb with green peas. Rognons d'agneau an champagne. Minced lamb’s kidneys, stewed with Champagne or Chablis wine. Rognons d'agneau a la Franqaise. Fried sliced sheep’s kidney, with sliced mushrooms, chopped shallots and parsley. Ris d'agneau aux petits pois. Braised lamb’s sweetbread larded, served with green peas. Ris d'agneau a la jardiniere. Braised lamb’s sweetbreads larded, served with finely cut spring vegetables. Ris d'agneau en caisses. Braised lamb’s sweetbreads, served in paper cases. Ris d'agneau frit. Fried lamb’s sweetbreads. Coquilles de ris d'agneau. Lamb’s sweetbread stewr baked in scollop-shells.. Ris d'agneau au viz. Stewed lamb’s sweetbreads with sliced mushrooms and white sauce, served in the centre of a rice border. Coquilles de ris d'agneau. Scolloped lamb’s sweetbread. Tendrons d'agneau d la puriie de pommes de terre. Fried lamb gristles with mashed potatoes. Lamb’s kidneys should never boil, otherwise they will not be eatable.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 194 Tenclrons d'agneciu aux ch&taignes. Fried lamb gristles with puree of chestnuts. Tendrons d'agneau aux cepes. Broiled lamb’s gristles with stewed cepes (a kind of French mushroom). Tete d'agneau rotie. Baked sheep’s head. Tete d'agneau braisee. Braised sheep’s head. Tete cl'agneau frite. Fried pieces of cooked sheep’s head meat. MOUTON—MUTTON Corbonades de mouton, sauce poivrade. Braised boned loin of mutton, larded, served with poivrade sauce. Carbonades de mouton d Voseille. Braised boned loin of mutton, larded, served with puree of sorrel. Carbonades de mouton a la Brctonne. Braised boned loin of mutton, larded, served with puree of white haricot beans. Carbonades de mouton d la Chartreuse. Braised boned loin of mutton, larded, surrounded with small vegetable timbales, groups of green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, and French beans. Sauce: Bemi-glace.entrees: mouton—mutton 195 Casserole de -mouton d VAnglaisc. Boiled meat pudding, lined with suet crust and mashed potatoes, filled with slices of underdone leg of mutton, and seasoning. Cervelle de mouton d la tomato. Braised sheep’s brains with tomato sauce. Cervelle de mouton aux Spinards. Braised sheep’s brains with spinach. Cotelettes de mouton au naturel. Plain broiled mutton cutlets. Cotelettes de mouton d la minute. Plain grilled mutton cutlets, with brown sauce, chopped mushrooms and shallots. Cotelettes de mouton a la Soyer. Par-broiled mutton cutlets, or small chops seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, shallots and savoury herbs fried in butter', served with maitre d'hotel butter flavoured with garlic. Cotelettes de moxiton d VIndienne. Fried mutton cutlets with curry sauce and boiled rice. Cotelettes de mouton d la Nelson. Par-broiled mutton cutlets, covered with chicken forcemeat, onion puree, and grated cheese, baked in the oven, served with demi-glace sauce. Cotelettes de mouton d la Bardoux. Breaded mutton cutlets, broiled in butter, served with green peas mixed with coarsely chopped fried ham.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 19G Cdtelettes de mouton d la Bouchdre. Breaded mutton cutlets fried, served plain. Cotclettes de mouton a la Byron. Par-broiled mutton cutlets, pressed, immersed in thick gravy sauce, egged, crumbed and fried, dished up in a circle with stewed mutton kidneys in centre. Cotclettes de mouton d la Milanaise. Grilled mutton cutlets dressed in the centre of a rice border, the rice being stewed with tomato puree and Parmesan cheese. Demi-glace sauce is served round the cutlets. Cdtelettes de mouton a la Provenqale. Par-broiled mutton cutlets covered with onion puree, egged, dipped in bread crumbs and grated cheese, fried and served with olive-shaped fried po- tatoes. ■ Cdtelettes de mouton a la jardiniere. Broiled mutton cutlets with cut spring vegetables. Cdtelettes de mouton d la Dreux. Fried mutton cutlets garnished with coarsely minced fried bacon, tongue and gherkins, dished up in a circle with mashed potatoes in centre. Cdtelettes de mouton d la Pompadour. Fried mutton cutlets, stuffed with onion pur6e. Cotclettes de mouton d la St.-Germain. Broiled mutton cutlets with puree of green peas. Cdtelettes de mouton d la Soubise. Braised mutton cutlets with white onion sauce (Soubise sauce).197 entrees: mouton—mutton Cotelettes de mouton d la Maintenon. Mutton cutlets split open, filled with a stuffing of chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots and chicken forcemeat, broiled and baked in the oven, dressed alternately with heart shapes of tongue and ham, and served with Italian sauce. Cdteleltes de mouton d VAvignonnaise. Boiled mutton chops or cutlets, drained, dressed in a circle on a baking dish, masked wiih a rich veloute sauce, sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven. Cotelettes de mouton d la Choiseul. Mutton cutlets spread over with veal forcemeat, mixed with fine herbs and chopped mushrooms, wrapped in pig’s caul or lamb’s leaf-fat, dipped in oiied butter rolled in fresh bread crumbs and fried. Cotelettes de mouton d la Glamart. Breaded mutton cutlets, fried, dished up in a circle with puree of green peas in centre, served with demi- glace sauce. Cotelettes de mouton d la pur&e de pommes de tcrrc. Fried mutton cutlets with mashed potatoes. Cotelettes de mouton d VItalienne. Mutton cutlets steeped in a mixture of salad oil and chopped savoury herbs, crumbed in finely chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, lemon-peel, powdered mace and bread crumbs, fried in clarified butter, and served wdth Italian sauce. Cotelettes de mouton aux tomates. Fried mutton cutlets with tomato puree.198 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Cdtelettes de mouton d la St.-Cloud. Larded mutton cutlets with truffles, broiled and served with gravy sauce. Cdtelettes de mouton aux haricots verts. Fried mutton cutlets, with French beans. Cdtelettes de mouton a la financiere. Egged and crumbed mutton cutlets broiled in butter and served with financiere sauce. Cdtelettes de mouton a la Frangaise. Egged and crumbed mutton cutlets fried in butter, garnished with macedoine of vegetables and served with Madeira wine sauce. Cdtelettes de mouton d la Madras. Fried mutton cutlets crumbed in fresh bread crumbs mixed with finely chopped ham, garnished with piccalilly pickle cut in julienne shreds and served with curry sauce. Cdtelettes de mouton a la Mancelle. Plain broiled mutton cutlets, dished up in a circle with puree of chestnuts in centre, and served with demi- glace sauce. Cdtelettes de mouton d la Nivernaise. Plain broiled mutton cutlets, served with glazed turnips in centre and gravy sauce. Cdtelettes de mouton a la Sail'anty. Braised neck of mutton, divided into cutlets, dished up and served with puree of green peas in centre. Sauce : Demi-glace.199 ENTREES : MOUTON MUTTON Cdtelettes de mouton sauca piquante. Fried mutton cutlets with piquante sauce. Cdtelettes de mouton d la chasseur. Broiled mutton cutlets with finely chopped mush- room sauce. Cdtelettes de mouton d la princesse. Par-broiled mutton cutlets covered with forcemeat, mixed with finely chopped mushrooms and truffles, egged, crumbed and fried in clarified butter, served with Perigord sauce. Cdtelettes de mouton a la Vatel. Stuffed mutton cutlets with chicken forcemeat and finely chopped truffles fried and garnished with finan- ciere ragout. Cdtelettes de mouton d la Reforme. Mutton cutlets crumbed in white bread crumbs mixed with finely chopped ham ; fried in butter, garnished with mushrooms, truffles, piccalilly pickles, ham and hard-boiled white of eggs, all cut into fine j ulienne strips and served with poivrade sauce, mixed with red currant jelly, or with sauce a la Reforme. (See Sauces.) Cdtelettes de mouton a la Singarat. Fried mutton cutlets larded with strips of smoked ox-tongue. Cdtelettes de mouton a la Vicomtesse. Mutton cutlets, grilled and pressed, immersed in a well reduced Madere sauce, egged, crumbed and fried. Dished up in a circle with a mixture of spring vegetables in centre and served with demi-glace sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 200 C 6 tele ties de mouton d la Coyer. Boned mutton chops, seasoned, dipped in oiled butter, sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs, and fried, served with demi-glace sauce and red currant jelly. Cous de mouton en ragout. Stewed scrags of mutton with carrots, turnips, onions and mushrooms. Cous de mouton- d la jardiniere. Stewed scrags of mutton, garnished with a mixture of carrots, turnips, peas, and French beans. Escalopes de mouton a la chipolata. Fried crumbed mutton collops, cut from the chump ends of loins of mutton, garnished with braised chest- nuts, carrots, turnips, and small onions, pieces of fried sausages, and fried potato dumplings. Escalopes de mouton aux fines hcrbes'. Broiled mutton collops, cut from the chump ends of loins, served with a white sauce, mixed with chopped mushrooms, shallots and parsley. Escalopes de mouton d la puree de champignons„ Broiled mutton collops, with fresh mushroom puree. Epaule de mouton d la Windsor. Boned rolled shoulder of mutton, braised, garnished with cauliflower, carrots, turnips, capers, and fried potato croquets. Epaule de mouton a la Sainte-Menehould. Shoulder of mutton braised with carrots, turnips, bacon and savoury herbs, when done cut in slices, dished up, covered with brown sauce bread crumbs, and small pieces of butter, browned in a hot oven or with a salamander.201 ENTREES : MOUTON—MUTTON Filet de mouton braisd d l'Anglaise. Boned loin of mutton stuffed with forcemeat, braised, glazed and served with French beans. Filet de mouton d la venaison. Larded loin of mutton, boned, pickled and braised, served with piquaute sauce. Filets mignons de mouton d la Byron. Broiled mutton fillets cut from the loin, served with onion puree and stewed sheep’s kidneys. Filet de mouton d la Gascogne. Boned piece of lean mutton, larded with anchovy fillets, braised and served with a brown sauce, flavoured with garlic. Filet de mouton d la minute. Small slices of tender-loin of mutton, seasoned and broiled, served with plain gravy sauce. Filet de mouton d la Polonaise. Larded loin of mutton (lean part), pickled, braised and served with stuffed mushrooms. Hachis de mouton aux ceufs poches. Hashed mutton with poached eggs. Hachis de mouton d la Pompadour. Hashed mutton, with stewed mushrooms, truffle and artichoke-bottoms. Hachis de mouton d I'Ecossaise. Hashed mutton laid in a pie dish, covered with bechamel sauce and bread crumbs, and baked in the oven.202 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Hachis de mouton a la Portugaise. Sliced roast leg of mutton browned slightly in butter with ham, carrots, shallots, a little garlic and parsley, braised in Madeira wine sauce. Haricot de mouton. Pieces of loin or neck of mutton, fried in butter with a few carrots, turnips, and onions, drained and stewed in brown sauce, dished up in the centre of a dish surrounded with vegetable garniture and fried bread croutons. Haricot de mouton a la Bourgeoise. Pieces of neck or breast of mutton braised with vegetables, garnished with same, and small braised button onions and boiled potato dumplings. Haricot de mouton d la Messoise. Stewed loin or neck of mutton, served with sauer- kraut and small smoked ham sausages. Langues de mouton braisdes. Sheep’s tongues blanched split in half and braised, garnished with a puree of turnips, braised onions and carrots. Langues de mouton aux pctits pois. Broiled sheep’s tongues, with green peas. Langues de mouton aux epinards. Broiled sheep’s tongues, with spinach. Langxies de mouton cn papillotes. Braised sheep’s tongues, dressed in paper cases, and glazed.203 ENTREES : MOUTON—MUTTON Langues de mouton aux olives. Braised sheep’s tongues with French olives. Langues de mouton a la Soubise. Braised sheep’s tongues with onion puree. (Soubise sauce.) Langues de mouton d la Duxelles. Boiled sheep’s tongues, split, ranged on a dish, spread over with a mixture of soaked bread, chopped parsley or mushrooms, egg yolks, and seasoning, sauced over with Duxelles sauce, sprinkled with bread crumbs, and baked in the oven. Longe de mouton en chevreuil. Boned loin of mutton stewed in a strong game stock with plenty of savoury herbs, carrots, onions, pepper- corns, and juniper berries, served with port wine sauce. Longe de mouton d la demi-glace. Braised loin of mutton with demi-glace sauce. Longe de mouton d la Cdestine. Braised loin of mutton with stuffed rolled pancakes, dipped in frying batter and fried. Longe de mouton d la Dubonzed. Roast loin of mutton boned, with stuffed potatoes . and tomato sauce. Mouton en ragout d VIrlandaise. Irish stew. (Mutton stewed in stock with potatoes and onions.) Pieds de mouton a la poiilctte. White stew of sheep’s trotters with sliced mushrooms and chopped parsley. 13204 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Pieds de mouton frits d la Tartare. Fried sheep’s trotters with Tartare sauce. Picds de mouton frits a la tomate. Fried sheep’s trotters with tomato sauce. Pieds de mouton a la Bouennaise. Boiled sheep’s trotters, stuffed with sausage meat, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat, served with piquante sauce. Poitrine de mouton aux macaronis. Breast of mutton cut into square pieces, stewed, and served with stewed macaroni and tomato sauce. Poitrine de mouton aux petits pois. Breast of mutton cut into square pieces, stewed the same way as ragout with green peas. Poitrine de mouton a la Nivernaise. Braised breast of mutton stuffed, served with braised turnips. Poitrine de mouton, sauce piquante. Braised breast of mutton with piquante sauce. I Poitrine de mouton, sauce Bobert. Braised breast of mutton with brown onion sauce. Poitrine de mouton aux haricots verts. Braised breast of mutton with French beans. Queues de mouton krais ces a la Francaise. Sheep’s tails braised, with carrots, turnips, small onions, garnished with the vegetables and fried pota- toes.205 ENTREES : MOUTON—MUTTON Queues dc mouton aux ipinards. Braised sheep’s tails with spinach. Queues de mouton a la jardiniere. Braised sheep’s tails with finely cut mixed spring vegetables. Kognons de mouton a la maitre d’hdtel. Broiled sheep’s kidneys with maitre d’hotel butter. Bognons de mouton panes. Parboiled split sheep’s kidneys put on skewers, buttered, bread crumbed, and baked in the oven, or fried in butter. Bognons de mouton d la Turbigo. Sliced sheep’s kidneys stewed with finely chopped shallots and white wine mixed with small pieces of sausages and discs of broiled lean bacon. Bognons de mouton sautes a la Frangaise. Sliced sheep’s kidneys, seasoned with Cayenne pepper, broiled over a quick fire, when partly done drudged with flour, and finished with demi-glace sauce, garnished with fried croutons, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Bognons de mouton a Vepicurienne. Split sheep’s kidneys, broiled, the centres filled with a thick Tartare sauce, garnished with small round fried potatoes, served with poivrade sauce. Bognons dc mouton d la Chinoise. Grilled split sheep’s kidneys, the centres filled with stewed asparagus points, served with tomato sauce and garnished with whole fried eggs.206 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Rognons da mouton a la brochette. Sheep’s kidneys broiled on skewers. Rognons de mouton saut&s au Madere. • Sliced stewed sheep’s kidneys with Madeira wine sauce. Rognons de mouton aux fines herbes. Broiled sheep’s kidneys, when done filled with maitre d’hotel or parsley butter, served with a little demi-glace sauce. Rognons de mouton au beurre d'anchois. Broiled sheep’s kidneys with anchovy butter. PORC—PORK Carbonade de pore d la Francaise. Stewed belly of fresh pork with vegetable garnishing and brown sauce. Caree de pore d la Nivernaise. Braised neck of pork with small glazed onions and turnips. Caree de pore a VIndienne. Curried neck of pork with boiled rice. Caree de pore braisde, sauce piquante. Braised neck of pork with poivrade sauce.ENTREES: PORC— PORK 207 Cervelles de pore a la demi-glace. Boiled pork brains with demi-glace sauce. Cervelles de pore d VItalienne. Boiled pork brains with Italian sauce. Cotes de pore d la diplomate. Braised spare ribs of pork, garnished with stewed red cabbage, Med pork sausages, and stuffed potatoes. Cotelettes de pore grilldes. Broiled pork cutlets. Cotelettes de pore marinces. Pickled pork cutlets, fried in oil, drained, and served with tomato sauce. Cotelettes de pore aux haricots blancs. Pork cutlets fried, served with a puree of white haricot beans. Cotelettes de pore a la Soubise. Fried pork cutlets served with onion puree. Cotelettes de pore a la Navarraise. Pickled pork cutlets, fried, and stewed in brown s&uce and sliced tomatoes, dressed round a rice stew. Cotelettes de pore a VIndienne. Fried pork cutlets, finished in curry sauce and served with boiled rice. Cotelettes de pore a la Robert. Fried pork cutlets with brown onion sauce. Cotelettes de pore aux fines herbes. Broiled pork cutlets with a white wine sauce con- taining chopped parsley and mixed savoury herbs.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ‘208 Cotelettes de pore aux lentilles. Fried pork cutlets with a puree of lentils. Cotelettes de pore, sauce aux pommes. Fried pork chops with apple sauce. Cotelettes de pore, sauce pjquante. Fried pork cutlets, or chops, with piquante sauce. Jambon grille aux petits pois. Grilled ham with green peas. Jambon bouilli, sauce Madere. Boiled ham with Madeira wine sauce. Jambon braise aux nouilles. Braised ham with nouilles. Jambon braise au champagne. Braised ham with Champagne wine sauce. Jambon aux ceufs. Broiled slices of ham with poached or fried eggs. Beignets de jambon. Ham fritters. (Minced ham mixed with yolks of eggs and bechamel sauce, shaped into small rolls or balls, dipped in savoury frying batter, and fried in clarified butter.) Jambon braise a la Francaise. Parboiled ham braised in Espagnole sauce, with sherry or Madeira wine. Jambon d la Polonaise. Braised ham with pease pudding, sourcrout, and small smoked pork sausages.ENTREES: PORC—PORK 209 Javibon d la Comtoise. Braised bam with Madeira wine sauce and sourcrout garnish. Jambon d la Bayonnaisc. Braised ham, with chopped onions fried, dressed on stewed rice, garnished with pieces of fried sausages, served with demi-glace sauce. Jambon braisd d la choucroute. Braised ham with stewed sourcrout (Sauerkraut). Jambon a VAlsacienne. Braised ham with sourcrout, mashed potatoes, and Strasburg sausages. Jambon a la Basse. Braised ham with small stuffed spring cabbages and stewed rice. Jambon glace a la Clamart. Braised ham, glazed with reduced demi-glace, served with a puree of green peas. Jambon d VAnglaise. . Parboiled ham, wrapped in a crust of paste made of flour and water, set to roast in a braisiere with white wine, butter, and seasoning, and served with the crust and skin removed, with wine sauce well reduced. Jarrets de pore marind a VAllemande. Boiled pickled knuckles of pork with stewed sour- crout, forcemeat dumplings, and white sauce. Langues de p>orc a VItalienne. Braised pork tongues with brown sauce and chopped preserved mushrooms.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 210 Langues de pore d la Lyonnaise. Boiled pork tongues with broiled sliced onions and brown sauce. Oreilles de pore en vinaigrette. Boiled pickled pig’s ears, with vinaigrette sauce, garnished with hard-boiled eggs, capers, gherkins, and olives. Oreilles deporc en menus droits. Pickled pig’s ears, braised and served with finely- sliced fried onions. Oreilles de pore frites, sauce Tartars. Boiled pickled pig’s ears, soaked in oil and chopped savoury herbs, dipped in frying batter, and fried in clarified butter, served with Tartare sauce. Palais de pore gratine. Boiled pig’s palate, seasoned, dished in a gratin dish with bechamel sauce, a few sliced mushrooms, fresh bread crumbs, small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. Palais de pore a.ux champignons. Stewed pig’s palate with sliced mushrooms. Pieds de cochon au Madere. Stewed pickled pig’s trotters (pig’s feet) with Madeira wine sauce. Pieds de cochon, sauce piquante. Pickled pig’s feet stewed and served with piquante sauce. Pieds de cochon en fricassee. Fricasseed pig’s feet. (White sauce and mush- rooms.)ENTREES t PORC—PORK 211 Pieds de cochon a la Sainte-Mdnehould. Pickled pig’s feet, boned, boiled, and stuffed, dipped in seasoned frying batter, fried in clarified butter, served with piquante or Robert sauce. Pieds de cochon au vin de Champagne. Pickled pig’s feet, stewed in champagne wine sauce. Pieds de cochon farcis a la Pdrigucux. Pickled pig’s feet stuffed -with finely chopped truffles, braised, and served with truffle sauce. Saucisses* de pore aux truffes. Fresh German pork sausages (Bratwiirste) fried, served with truffle sauce. Saucissons de pore a la Lyonnaise. Fried pork sausages with braised sliced onions. Saucisses de pore a la puree de pommes de terre. Fried pork sausages with mashed potatoes. • Tete de pore d la poulette. Boiled pickled pig’s head with parsley sauce. Tete de pore frite, sauce rdmoulade. Boiled pickled pig’s head, cut into square pieces, well seasoned, egged, crumbed, fried, served with remoulade sauce and fried parsley. Tele de pore d la mobile. Braised salt pig’s head, with sliced tomatoes, slightly fried, dished up on stewed rice, and served with demi- glace sauce. * Saucisse usually stands for fresh sausage, whilst bauoisson stands for smoked sausage.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 212 * VOLAILLE—POULTRY Canards.—Ducks. Canard braisb aux petits pois. Braised duck with green peas. Canard grille a la Francaise. Duck divided down the middle, rubbed over with a mixture of French mustard, chutney sauce, and season- ing, broiled gently in butter, served with brown gravy sauce containing white wine, chopped lemon pickles, and preserved mushrooms. Canard a VItalienne. Parbraised duck, cut up, fried in oil with chopped chieves parsley and herbs, stewed in a brown mushroom sauce. Canard sauU aux olives. Stewed duck with olives and brown sauce. Canard en bigaradcs. Braised duck with orange sauce. Canard saute aux navets. Stewed duck with new turnips. Canard braise a la Frangaise. Braised duck (breast larded) stuffed with chestnuts, chopped onions, and savoury herbs, served with a port wine sauce.213 ENTREES : VOLAILLE—POULTRY Canard d la Nivernaise. Braised duck with glazed turnips and demi-glaee sauce. Canard d la Valencicnne. Roast duck, garnished with rows of orange slices and served with orange sauce. Salmis de canard. Jugged or stewed duck with rich brown sauce, which should be made out of the duck giblets. Salmis de canard a la bourgeoise. Stewed duck, with small onions slightly fried and reduced in Espagnole sauce with red wine. Salmis de canard a V Irlandaise. Stewed duck with slices of fried onions, small squares of ham fried, and port wine sauce. Salmis de-canard d la Castillane. Roast duck, stewed in brown sauce, with sour orange juice and rind finely shred. Croustade de canard d la Chartradne. French raised pie crust lined with forcemeat and filled alternately with sausage meat and stewed fillets of duck, baked in the oven. Canard saictd au pecheur. Stewed duck in demi-glace sauce, garnished with crayfish tails. Canard satild a la chasseur. Stewed duck with chopped mushrooms and game fillets. Canard sautk d VAm&ricaine. Stewed duck in brown sauce with an addition of black currant jelly.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 214 Canetons.—Ducklings. Canetons a la Provengale. Broiled quarters of duckling with braised carrots, turnips, and onions garnished round the dish. Canetons a la Bouennaise. Boasted duck stewed in brown sauce with finely chopped duck liver, and shallots. As a roast, ducks can be served in the same manner by stuffing them with a mixture of bread crumbs, chopped livers and hearts, herb seasoning, chopped parsley and shallots, egg, and fresh butter. Canetons a la Duclair. Roasted ducklings stuffed with the hearts and livers, finely chopped shallots, parsley, and seasoning, served with demi-glace sauce well reduced with claret wine, orange juice, and chopped chieves. Canetons d la Saint-Mande. Braised ducklings, served with Madere sauce, surrounded with thick slices of cooked cucumber, slightly fried in butter, and fried bread croutons or sippets. Canetons braisis, satice echalote. Braised ducklings with brown shallot sauce. Canetons aux petits pois. Stewed ducklings with green peas. Canetons aux haricots verts. Stewed ducklings with French beans.ENTREES : VOLAILLE—POULTRY 215 Salmis de canetons d la verjus. Stewed ducklings in a thin gravy sauce, served with a sauce prepared with Espagnole sauce, blanched green grapes, and a little red currant jelly, which is well worked with fresh butter before the grapes are added. Salims de canetons anx olives farcies. Stewred ducklings in brown sauce with stuffed olives. Chapons.—Capons or Capon pullets. Chapons a la CUry. Broiled quarters of capon, with parsley and onion sauce. Chapon braisd d Vestragon. Braised capon with tarragon sauce. Chapon d la Begence. Braised stuffed capon, with a rich brown truffle sauce. Bagout de chapon aux petits pois. Stewed capon with green peas. Chapon braise d la Saint-Cloud. Braised capon (breast larded with truffles and bacon strips), served with Madeira wine sauce. Blanquette de chapon aux champignons. Quarters of capon boiled in white sauce (bechamel sauce) with sliced mushrooms. Ilachis de chapon a la Victoria. Hashed or minced capon, with poached eggs, sprinkled with finely chopped truffles. Chapon sauM d la Franqaise. Parboiled capon cut into quarters, braised, served with white wine sauce, sliced truffles, and mushrooms.216 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Timbales de chapon d la princesse. Timbales made of capon forcemeat and chopped truffles, served with white cream sauce or sauce supreme. Quenelles de chapon a la Vatel. Small boiled forcemeat quenelles made of capon forcemeat, chopped truffles, and mushrooms, served with a brown truffle sauce. Chapon braise a la Garfield. Braised capon (breast larded), served with a brown sauce mingled with cranberry jelly. Chapon braise aux truffes. Braised capon (breast larded with truffles), served with Perigueux sauce. Chapon bouilli a la Genoise. Boiled capon, served with finely-cut nouilles, done in veloute or Allemande sauce mixed with parmesan cheese and curry sauce. Chapon an gros scl. Braised capon (breast covered with slices of peeled lemon and larded), served with reduced demi-glace sauce, containing a small quantity of coarse kitchen salt added just before serving (hence the name, gros sel). Chapon a la Cavour. Stuffed capon braised (breast larded and glazed), served with reduced Allemande sauce well worked with meat extract and lemon juice, garnished with small baked nouilles or macaroni timbales.ENTREES : VOLAILLE POULTRY 217 Chapon a la bourgeoise. Braised capon finished in a brown sauce with tomato sauce and white wine reduced, garnished with groups of glazed carrots and button onions. Chapon d la chanceliere. Braised capon (breast larded) finished and served with a well-spiced white wine sauce (surface of capon should be glazed). Chapon a la Perigueux. Roast capon stuffed with forcemeat and chopped truffles, served with Perigueux sauce and chicken quenelles. Chapon d la Pidmontaise. Roast capon stuffed with forcemeat and sliced truffles, served with tomato sauce and ravioli paste quenelles, which are stuffed with veal forcemeat and tomato puree, or paste. Dindes.—Turkeys. Dinde en brioche. Fricasseed turkey fillets, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes browned in the oven. Blanquette de dinde. Stewed turkey in white sauce with sliced preserved mushrooms. Dinde bouillie aux huitres. Boiled turkey with oyster sauce. Dinde d V&touffade aux concombres. Stewed turkey with brown sauce and stewed cu- cumbers.218 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Blanquette de dinde aux morilles. Stewed turkey in white sauce with morels (a species of mushroom). Dinde frite a la tomate. Cold turkey cut into neat pieces, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with tomato sauce. Dinde grillee a la diable. Cold roast turkey cut into pieces, covered with beurre diable (devilled butter), grilled over a slow fire, served with a sharp gravy sauce, mixed with curry paste or powder. Hachis de dinde d la Heine. Hashed or minced turkey, stewed in white sauce, served with poached eggs and fried bread croutons. Filets de dinde A la cardinal. Breasts of turkey boiled in white sauce, garnished with stewed crawfish-tails and lobster corals. Filets de dinde brais&e aux epinards. Braised turkey breasts, with spinach. Ailerons de dinde braisee a la puree denavets. Braised turkey wings with mashed turnips. Dinde bouillie au c&leri. Boiled turkey with a white sauce flavoured with celery. Dinde boidllie sauce persil. Boiled turkey with, parsley sauce.ENTREES : VOLAILLE—POULTRY 219 Dinde d la chipolata. Boast turkey larded and stuffed with sausage meat and veal forcemeat, disked up with a ragout of pieces of small round sausages, small squares of fried bacon, button mushrooms, and sliced truffles done in Madere sauce, garnished with a border ol fancy forcemeat quenelles. Dinde d la Beynidre. Eoast turkey dished up, surrounded with small fried sausages and large chestnuts, cooked whole in poultry broth, served with a brown gravy sauce, in which the liver, previously braised, in turkey grease, and finely sliced, has been added just before serving. Dinde a la Toulouse. Boiled turkey, dished up with a ragout of sliced mushrooms, sliced sweetbread, sliced truffles, cocks’ combs, and forcemeat quenelles, done in Allemande or veloute sauce. Dinde d la Saint James. Eoast turkey stuffed with sausage meat, chopped cooked turkey liver and shallot seasoning, served with a brown sauce, and cranberry jelly set in fancy moulds and served separately. Dinde d la Provencale. Eoast turkey stuffed with finely chopped boiled onions, bread crumbs, chopped parsley, egg-yolks, sliced truffles, and seasoning, served with tomato sauce. Dinde d la Godard. Braised turkey (breast larded), stuffed with veal forcemeat, mixed with sliced swreetbread, mushrooms, dished up and garnished with sliced truffles, mushroom heads, cocks’ combs, turned olives, and fancy chicken quenelles, served with Madere sauce. 14PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 220 Dinde d la Yorkshire. Boned turkey stuffed with forcemeat and thick slices of cooked smoked ox-tongue, sewn up in a cloth and boiled, garnished with groups of vegetable macedoine and served with bechamel sauce. Filets de dinde d la chicorde. Braised fillets of turkey with endive or chicory pur6e. Cuisses de dinde farcies a la Garibaldi. Legs of turkey boned, stuffed with chicken and veal forcemeat, truffles, ham and tongue finely minced, braised slowly and served with a garniture of stewed macaroni flavoured with tomato puree and small rice timbales. Cuisses de dinde braisee a VIndienne. Curried legs of turkey with boiled rice. Dindonneau saute aux champignons. Young turkey stewed, with sliced mushrooms. Dindonneau braise au Madere. Braised young turkey with Madeira wine sauce. Oies.—Geese. Oie sautde d la bourgeoise. Stewed goose with green peas, braised carrots, and small onions. Oie braisde a la Polonaise. Braised goose with sourcrout (sauerkraut), veal forcemeat dumplings, and small smoked pork sausages. Pale de foie gras chaud. Hot goose liver pie.entrees: volaille—poultry 221 Timbales cle foie gras aux trujfcs. Small goose liver timbales, poached in the oven and served with a white truffle sauce. Boudins de foie d'oie d la Parisienne. Small goose liver sausages, broiled, dished in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes, served with Madere sauce. Quenelles de foie gras d la P&rigueux. Small goose liver dumplings, steamed, served with a brown truffle sauce. Oie braisee a Vetouffade. Goose stuffed with a mixture of boiled onions, finely chopped onions, sausage meat, bread crumbs, and seasoning, braised in the oven, dished up with a border of glazed turnips and brown sauce. Oie d VAnglaise. Roast goose stuffed with sage and onion filling, sauced with brown gravy, and served with apple sauce (separately). Oie braisee aux chdtaignes. Braised goose, stuffed with veal forcemeat, mixed with blanched chestnuts (cooked whole) and seasoning, served with apple sauce (separately). Oie braisee a la Dauphinoise. Braised goose, stuffed with chestnut puree, minced shallot, and seasoning, served with a brown sauce mingled with orange juice and finely shred orange peel.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 222 Oie d la Mont-Vernon. Roast goose, stuffed with boiled onions finely chopped, and mashed potatoes, dished up with a border of halves of apples., baked brown with goose- grease in the oven, and served with brown gravy sauce mingled with a little red currant jelly. Oie, d Vorange. Stewed or braised goose, dished up with a border of pared and sliced oranges, and served with orange sauce. Oie a la chipolata. Roast or braised goose, dished up with chipolata garnishing (see Dinde a la chipolata), served with apple sauce. Pigeons.—Pigeons, Pigeons farcis braises. Braised stulfed pigeons. Pigeons braises aux champignons. Braised pigeons with mushrooms. Pigeons en compote aux pctits pois. Stewed pigeons with green peas. Pigeons a la Saintc-Mdnchould. Boiled pigeons in rich white sauce, mixed with arsley and savoury herbs, when nearly done drained, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with the above sauce poured round them. Pigeons a la crapaudine. Split pigeons, put on skewers, egged, crumbed, and broiled over a quick fire, served with a brown sauce, stoned olives, and sliced truffles.ENTREES : VOLAILLE— POULTRY 223 Karri de pigeons (Curried pigeons). Pigeons cut into quarters, fried in butter, and cur- ried, served in a rice border. Pigeons d la Nivernaisc. Stewed pigeons, wdth braised turnips. Pigeons en matelote. Pigeons cut into pieces, seasoned, broiled in butter and thin slices of bacon, stewed in a brown sauce, white wine, chopped chieves, parsley, thyme, and mushrooms, garnished with fried button onions. Pate chaud de pigeons (French pigeon pie). Pie crust filled with stewed pigeons and sliced mushrooms, served hot, with poivrade sauce. Pate de pigeons chaud a VAnglaise (English pigeon pie). Parboiled stuffed pigeons cut into halves filled into a pie dish with slices of rump steak, parsley, seasoning, an/1 hard-boiled slices of eggs, and stock, covered with pie crust, and baked. Pigeons en papillotes (Pigeons in cases). Pigeons cut in halves, well seasoned, covered with a mixture of liver forcemeat, chopped shallots and parsley, and sliced button mushrooms, dressed in well- buttered paper cases, baked slowly in the oven, and glazed before serving. Cdtelettes de pigeons aux pointes d’asperges. Pigeons cut in halves, boned, seasoned, and shaped into cutlets, parbroiled, pressed between two dishes, egged, crumbed, and baked in clarified butter, served with a brown sauce (sherry or port wine sauce), and garnished with stewed asparagus points.224 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Cotelettes de pigeons aux petits pois. Pigeon cutlets as above, garnished with green peas. Cotelettes de pigeons ctux champignons. Pigeon cutlets as above, served with stewed sliced mushrooms. Ponding de pigeons a VAnglaise (English pigeon pudding). Pigeons cut into neat pieces, seasoned, filled into a pudding basin (lined with suet crust), with thin slices of rump steak, chopped parsley, stock, and hard-boiled eggs, covered wdth suet crust and boiled. Cotelettes de pigeons au supreme. Halves of pigeons, boned, except the legs, flattened, seasoned, fried, pressed, pared, filled wdth chicken salpicon and truffles, shaped into the form of cutlets, egged, crumbed, fried, and served with veloute sauce, thickened with cream, egg yolks, and butter. Cotelettes de pigeons d la Provenqale. Halves of pigeons, boned, excepting legs, seasoned, broiled in oil, pressed, pared into cutlet shapes, im- mersed in oiled butter, rolled in bread crumbs, and fried in butter. Served with Provencale sauce. Pigeons a I’Espagnole. Braised pigeons with fried squares of ham and Espagnole sauce, diluted with a little white wine and chilli vinegar. Pigeons d la Talleyrand. Braised pigeons, dished up with a garnishing of artichoke bottoms, mushroom heads, small squares of chicken liver and ox-tongue, done in a w'ell-buttered velout4 sauce.entrees: volaille—poultry 9.0. i Chartreuse de pigeons cl la Bouennaise. ' Braised pigeons, dressed in a border of carrots, turnips, braised savoy cabbage, and small squares of boiled pickled pork, all set in a symmetrical row, with carrots and turnips to the edge, garnished with slices of smoked pork sausages, and served with demi-glace sauce. Pigeons d la Marigny. Halves of pigeons, seasoned and braised, dressed on heart-shaped slices of smoked ox-tongue, covered with oiled paper, and baked in the oven, served with Madere sauce. Compote de pigeons aux champignons. Stewed pigeons with mushrooms. Compote de pigeons aux petits pois. Stewed pigeons with green peas. Compote de pigeons a VAmericaine. Stewed pigeons with small squares of fried bacon and medium-sized onions, slightly sugared and fried in butter, served with brown sauce mingled with a small quantity of cranberry jelly. Compote de pigeons d la bourgeoise. Boiled pigeons, stewed in brown sauce with claret wine, small browned onions, and savoury herb flavour- ing, served with a garniture of cooked carrots, green peas, and glazed onions. Compote de pigeons d la rentidre. Braised pigeons, stewed in savoury sauce, served with its sauce strained and thickened with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 226 Poulets. —Chickens. Poulet en compote. Stewed chicken with mushrooms, fried rashers of bacon, and braised onions. Poulet a Vestragon. Stuffed and barded roast chicken, served with a rich brown gravy sauce flavoured with tarragon leaves. Poulet d la Marengo. Chicken cut into small neat pieces, seasoned and fried in oil or butter, stewed in rich brown ' Madeira sauce, with sliced mushrooms and truffles, garnished with whole fried eggs, bread croutons, and braised button onions. Poulets d la Provencale. Stewed chickens with braised onions, sliced tomatoes, mushrooms, and Madere sauce. Poulets braises aux fines lierbes. Braised chickens, served with a rich brown sauce, seasoned with finely chopped chieves, tarragon, chervil, parsley, garden cress, and white wine. Poulets frits d la Tyrolienne. Neatly cut pieces of chicken, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried slowly in clarified butter, served with tomato sauce and fried curly parsley. Poulet bouilli d Vestragon. Boiled chicken, served with a white sauce, flavoured with tarragon leaves. Fricassee de poulets aux champignons. Fricasseed chickens with mushrooms.ENTREES : VOLAILLE—POULTRY 227 Poulcts sautes d VItalienne. Stewed chicken with tomato and brown sauce, dished in the centre of a lice border prepared with tomato puree and parmesan cheese. Poulet d Vicariate. Braised chicken, dished up and garnished with fancy-shaped slices of smoked ox-tongue, served with a well-buttered veloute sauce. Poulet a la Vigo. Braised chicken, finished in Madeira wine sauce, dished up and garnished with small ripe tomatoes, scalded, and baked whole. Poulet d Vivoire. Boiled chicken (breast covered with slices of peeled lemon and barded), served with supreme sauce. Poulet d la Chivry. Braised chicken, dished up with rings of Spanish onions, filled with a mixture of chieves, boiled onions, and blanched tarragon leaves all finely chopped, sauced over •with a savoury herb sauce prepared with the chicken stock. Poulet d la Saint-Cloud. Boiled chicken (breast larded with truffles and ox- tongue and barded), served with supreme sauce mingled with finely chopped truffle parings. Poulet d la Livournaise. Spit chicken, flattened, steeped in a mixture of lemon juice, swTeet oil, flavoured with bayleaf, parsley root, and onions, drained, sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs, and broiled slowly in butter. Served with Livournaise sauce, composed of salad oil, anchovy paste, egg-yolks, tarragon vinegar, and seasoning, all well mixed and served cold.228 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Poulet a la vert-pr6. Boiled chicken, served with a white sauce thickened with a liaison of cream and egg-yolks, tinted with finely chopped chervil and tarragon leaves and spinach greening. Poulet a la polenta. Braised chicken, finished in a white wine and tomato sauce, dished up with a border of small maise or polenta timbales. Poulet d I’arlequin. Neatly-shaped joints of chicken skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and served wdth financiere ragout. Poulet a la diable. Spring chickens, split at the back, well seasoned with plenty of Cayenne pepper, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled gently ; when done, spread over with mixed mustard or devilled butter. Poulet saute, d la Perigueux. Stewed chicken with truffle sauce. Poulet saute a la Godard. Neatly-shaped pieces of chicken, skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and stewed in a white sauce with chopped mushrooms. Garnished with whole truffles, heads of mushrooms, and fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff paste baked). Epigrammcs de poulets aux truffes. Boned and skinned chicken, flattened and shaped like collops, larded with truffles, and broiled in butter, served with truffle sauce.ENTREES : VOLAILLE—POULTRY 229 Epigrammes cle poulcts d la Villeroi. Collops of chicken, seasoned and slightly broiled, immersed in veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with tomato sauce. Poulet d la Montmorency. Braised chicken stuffed with a salpicon of sweet- breads, truffles, and mushrooms, breast larded, and glazed, dished up with a garniture of sliced sweet- breads, and mushroom heads, served with Madere sauce. Poulet a la cardinal. Boiled chicken, breast bone removed, stuffed with veal forcemeat, and dished up with a garniture of fancy quenelles and slices of truffles, and served with cardinal sauce, composed of white sauce, anchovy essence, lobster, butter, and chilly vinegar. Poulet frit d l'Orly. Parboiled chicken, cut into neat pieces, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, and fried in clarified butter served with fried onions, parsley, and tomato sauce. Poulet podle aux groseilles vertes. Stewed chicken, in brown sauce with stewed goose- berries (green). Sautd de poulet aux limtres. Stewed chicken in white sauce with stewed oysters. Hachis de poulet d I’ecarlate. Stewed fowl served with gravy sauce and garnished with slices of braised ox-tongue.230 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Escalopes de poulet a VAnglaise. Minced cold roast or boiled chicken, stewed with thick white sauce (bechamel sauce), well seasoned, filled in scollop shells, covered with white bread crumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. Filets de poulet a Vimp&riale. Larded chicken breasts, braised and served with minced game and truffles. Filets de poulet a la jardiniere. Chicken breast broiled, garnished with young spring vegetables cut fine, and served with brown gravy sauce. Fricassee de poulet cl la Havelock. Fricasseed chicken in a white sauce thickened with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter, fillets larded, braised, and glazed, and decorated with rings of ox- tongue, dished up with groups of truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. Fricassee de poulet cl la Saint-Lambert. Fricasseed chicken dished up in a pyramidal form, surrounded with groups of small braised carrots, green peas, and French beans. Fricassee de poulet d la reine. Fricasseed chicken, dished up in a pyramidal form, garnished with chicken forcemeat quenelles, mushroom heads, sliced truffles, and fried sippets glazed. Fricassee de poulet cl la chevaliere. Fricasseed chicken (fillets larded and garnished with fancy-cut slices of truffles, braised, and glazed), dished up with a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, and cocks’ combs, and garnished with small fried chicken croquets.entrees: volaille—poultry 231 Fricassee cle poulet aux ecrevisses. Fricasseed chicken with forcemeat dumplings and stewed crayfish tails. Poulet saute a la fermUre. Saute of chicken, sauce diluted with cream and flavoured with lemon juice, dished up in pyramidal form, sprinkled with chopped parsley and garnished with groups of small-cut spring vegetables. Poulet saute d la Florentine. Saute of chicken, flavoured with chopped shallots and green pepper, sauce diluted with tomato puree and wdiite wine. / Poulet saute d la paysanne. Stewed chicken in brown sauce, with olive-shaped carrots, turnips, and celery root, dished up and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Poulet saute a la Bayonnaise. Fried chicken joints, with coarsely minced ham, stew'ed in brown sauce, sherry wine, small peeled and sliced tomatoes, dressed in a border of stewed rice. Poulet saute a la printanidre. Saute of chicken, dished up in pyramidal form, gar- nished with groups of green peas, small-cut carrots, and French beans. Poulet sauU a la Bearnaise. Saut6 of chicken finished in a veloute sauce with meat glaze, wdiite wine, chopped parsley, and tarragon leaves, thickened with egg-yolks and fresh butter.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 232 Poulet frit d la Tartare. Boiled chicken cut into neat little joints, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter, served with Tartare sauce. Poulet sautt a, la bourgeoise. Stewed chicken in brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms and red wine, garnished with young green peas and carrots. Poulet sautt au riz grating. Stewed chicken, with discs of lean bacon and chopped onions, dressed on a layer of boiled rice, covered with rice and tomato puree, sprinkled with bread crumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in the oven. Karri de poulet a VIndienne. Curried fowl, with Indian pickles or picalilly, cut in fine shreds, served with boiled rice. Poulet marine frit. Cold roast chicken cut into pieces, seasoned, soaked in lemon juice and oil, drained, dipped in frying batter, and fried in clarified butter. Hachis de poulet d la reine. Minced chicken in white cream sauce, dished up with poached eggs, and sprinkled with finely chopped truffles. Poulet en demi-deuil en blanquette. Fricasseed fowls with sliced truffles and mushrooms. Poulet sautt d la Hongroise. Saute of chicken, done in a brown sauce reduced with boiled milk, white wine, chopped parsley, and fresh butter.ENTREES : VOLAILLE—POULTRY 233 Poulct saute d la Demidoff. Saute of chicken done in a brown sauce, well buttered, and diluted with Madeira wine, served in a border of stewed rice. Poulet saute a la Lyonnaise. Broiled chicken, jointed, stewed in tomato and Espagnole sauce, with minced onions, fried in butter, and well reduced with white wine. Poulct saute d VInlcerviann. Saute of chicken, done in tomato sauce mingled with curry paste and dissolved meat glaze, dished up in a pyramid, garnished with fried eggs and small squares of ham. Poulct d la Bomaine. Braised chicken, finished in tomato sauce well re- duced with Madeira wine, dished up and garnished with sliced truffles and dressed macaroni. Poulct d la Pondichery. Saute of chicken, done in a brown sauce, mixed with apple sauce, juice of mandarin oranges, and the rinds finely chopped, served in a border of plain boiled rice. Poulet d la Paschaline. Braised chicken, sprinkled with chopped mushrooms, sauced over with a rich veloute sauce, and garnished with halves of hard-boiled eggs, stuffed with veal force- meat, and fried. Poulet d V Am&ricaine. Braised chicken, served with a brown sauce mixed with cranberry jelly, and served with fried bread croutons, glazed with reduced game essence.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 23 i Poulet a la g&n6ral. Braised chicken, dished up with groups of green peas and asparagus points, served with Madere sauce. Poularde braisee a la chicoree. Braised pieces of pullets with stewed endive or chicory. Poularde bouillie a la Turque. Boiled pullet, cut up, dressed in the centre of a rice border with tomato sauce. Poularde aux lasagnes. Braised pullet with stewed nouilles. Poularde farcie a la P&rigueux. Braised pullet stuffed with forcemeat and truffles, served with truffle sauce. Poularde sautee a la Saint Valentin. Stewed pullet with finely chopped truffles, mush- rooms, garnished with heads of mushrooms, hard-boiled yolks of egg, fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff paste, baked), and chopped parsley, served with orange sauce, reduced with Madeira wine. Poulet saute a la Saint George. Fowl cut up raw in neat joints, seasoned, fried in oil, stewed in white sauce made from chicken stock, served with sliced mushrooms, and when dished up glazed with dissolved meat extract. Timbales de poulet d la m&ridionale. Chicken timbales, prepared with finely minced chicken meat, demi-glace sauce, panade, and Worcester sauce, filled in timbale moulds with some well-reduced tomato puree in the centre, steamed in the oven, arffl served with Madeira wine sauce.235 ENTREES : VOLAILLE—POULTRY Cuisses cle volaille d la Wellington. Chicken legs fried in oil, drained, and finished in a chutney sauce. Cuisses cle volaille a la Florentine. Chicken legs fried in butter, immersed in supreme . sauce, egged, crumbed in fresh bread crumbs and grated parmesan cheese, fried in clarified butter, and served with tomato sauce. Poulet saute d la chasseur. Saute of chicken finished in Espagnole and tomato sauce with white wine, chopped parsley, chopped mushrooms, and lemon juice. Poulet frit d la Dauphine. Broiled chicken joints immersed in veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, fried, dished up, and garnished with groups of spring vegetables neatly shaped, served with bechamel sauce. Poulet frit d la Viennoise. Boned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimmed and flattened, marinated in savoury herb pickling, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried. Served with tomato sauce. Poulet frit d la cluchesse. Boned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimmed and flattened, steeped in lemon juice, flavoured with savoury herbs and onions, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with Duchesse sauce, prepared with veloute sauce, cream, and minced ham. Cotelettes cle volaille d la Montpmsier. Ctrcken fillets chopped, shaped into cutlets, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with tomato sauce. 1523(> PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Cotelettes de volatile d VAllemande. Parbroiled chicken fillets, immersed in Allemande sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with Allemande sauce. Quenelles de volatile a VItalienne. Chicken forcemeat dumplings, or quenelles; with chopped preserved mushrooms, steamed in the oven. Served with a rich brown gravy sauce, containing truffles, mushrooms, parsley, and cooked ham, all finely chopped. Quenelles de volatile a la supreme. Chicken forcemeat mixture filled in small fancy moulds, with salpicon in the centre, steamed in the oven, served with supreme sauce and garnished with slices of black truffles. Boudins de volatile d la Soubise. Small steamed sausage-shaped quenelles, made of chicken forcemeat and served with onion puree. Capilotade de salpicon de volatile aux truffes. Coarsely minced chicken, ham, tongue, mushrooms, a-nd truffles, stewed in white sauce. Filets de volatile d la supreme. Broiled chicken fillets larded, garnished with truffles, and served with supreme sauce. Filets de volatile auxpointes d’aspergcs. Braised chicken fillets with asparagus points. Filets de volatile aux concombrcs. Braised chicken fillets with cucumber ragout.237 ENTREES : YOLAILLE—POULTRY Supreme clc volatile a la royale. Stewed chicken fillets dished up in a vegetable border, garnished wifh fancy slices of ox-tongue, truffles, and macedoine of vegetables, served with supreme sauce. Epigramme cle volatile a la Macedoine. Parbraised chicken fillets immersed in Allemande sauce, egged, crumbed, and broiled in butter, garnished with macedoine of vegetables, and served with demi- glace sauce. GIBIER—GAME A. DE LA VOLAILLE SAUVAGE.—WILD POULTRY, Salmis de Becasses. Stewed snipes, or jugged snipes. Becasses d la minute. Broiled snipes with sherry wine sauce. Becasses braisees d Vorange. Braised snipes with orange sauce. Becasses farcies d la Stockholm, Parboiled snipes stuffed with beef and pork force- meat, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and gherkins, braised in the oven, and served with a white wine sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 28 8 C apis sanies cle bScasses aux truffles. Minced snipes with truffles, mixed with game sauce, filled in shells, and baked in the* oven. PatS de bdcasses a VAnglaise. Raised pie filled with roast snipes cut in joints, calf’s liver and bacon forcemeat, and ham (when baked take off the cover and fill up with truffle sauce, replace the cover, and serve hot). Becassines au gratin. Stewed snipes baked in the gratin style. Becassines eu croustade. Fried snipes served on fried bread crusts, with brown sauce. Becfigues en salmis. Stewed or jugged fig-peckers. Cailles d la jardiniere. Broiled quails with finely cut young vegetables, carrots, turnips, beans, &c. Cailles A la Perigueux. Braised quails with truffles. Cailles en polenta. Stewed quails with polenta prepared in the Italian fashion. (Polenta is Italian oatmeal.) Compote de cailles. Stewed quails garnished with cork-shaped pieces of boiled and broiled bacon, small mushrooms, and braised button onions. Cailles & la Lucidlus. . Braised, boned, and stuffed quails, with mashed game and minced truffles.239 ENTREES : GIBIER—GAME Cailles a la Mirepoix. Braised quails previously pickled in white or red wine vinegar, carrots, savoury herbs, juniper beries, &c. Ponding de cailles d VAnglaise. English quail pudding. Cailles d la cendre. Dressed quails barded, wrapped in oiled paper, cooked in wrood embers, the same way as potatoes ; when done the paper is removed, the birds are ranged on a dish and served with a brown gravy sauce reduced q^h white wine. Croustades de cailles d la Chdmpenoise. Braised halves of quails stuffed with game force- meat, chopped mushrooms, and liver, dressed on fried bread crusts, glazed, and served with demi-glace sauce. Canards sauvages aux navets. Stewed wild ducks w'ith braised neatly shaped turnips. Canards sauvages aux olives. Stewed wild ducks with turned French olives. Salmis de canards sauvages. Stewed or j ugged wild ducks. Filets de canards sauvages aux truffes. Fried fillets of wold duck served with a brown sauce made of wild duck giblets, with sliced mush- rooms, finely minced shallots, and truffles. Filets de canards sauvages, sauce poivrade. Broiled fillets of wild duck with poivrade sauce.240 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Canards sauvages a VAmdricaine. Braised wild ducks stuffed with soaked bread -well buttered and seasoned, served with a brown sauce made of boiled duck giblets, chopped shallots, and port wane. Canards sauvages d la chasseur. Braised -wild ducks stuffed with minced game and chopped mushrooms, served-with a game sauce in which some black currant jelly has been dissolved. Coq de bois braise, sauce poivrade. x Braised heath cock with poivrade sauce. Coq de bruyere pique aux quenelles de truffcs. Braised mountain cock larded, served with small forcemeat and truffle dumplings (quenelles). Coq de bruyere d la Polonaise. Stewed mountain cock with truffle sauce. Coq de bruyere a la Polonaise. Par broiled mountain cock steeped in game marinade, braised in the oven, and served wuth a brown game sauce mixed with sour cream. Faisan d la Flamancle. Braised pheasants served with small stuffed braised cabbages and fried sausages. Compote de faisan an Madere. Stewed pheasant with Madeira wine sauce. . Salmis de faisan aux truffcs. Stewed or jugged pheasant with sliced truffles.ENTREES : GIBIER — GAME 241 Filets de faisan d la Talleyrand. Larded fillets of pheasant, braised, served with a stew of minced pheasant round the fillets and garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Filets de faisan d la Richelieu. Braised pheasant fillets larded with truffles and bacon. Faisan a la bonne femme. Braised pheasant, with small pieces of ham, sliced and stewed Spanish onions, served with a brown sauce mixed with Indian chutney. C'dtelettes de faisan d la Richelieu. Pheasant forcemeat shaped into cutlets, poached ; when cold egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter ; served with a brown sauce with chopped truffles. Salmis de faisan d la Boh&mienne. Stewed pheasant in brown sherry sauce, minced ham, and mushrooms, garnished with fried bread croutons and whole mushrooms. Faisan aux choux. Braised pheasant with stewed cabbages, garnished with fried slices of bacon, small carrots, and sausages. Salmis de geiinottes. Stewed or jugged hazel hens. Filets de cjelinottes an champagne. Broiled fillets of hazel hens with champagne sauce. Grives braisees en caisses. Braised fieldfares ^served in small paper cases. Pate chaud de grives. Braised fieldfare pie served hot.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 242 Grives bardees a la chasseur. Roast fieldfares, barded, served with mushroom sauce, garnished with minced game and fried sau- sages. Grimpereaux d la Perigueux. Braised woodpeckers with truffle sauce. Macreuses braisees aux champignons. Braised sea ducks with mushrooms. Mauviettes farcies aux truffes. Braised larks stuffed with forcemeat and truffles, served with truffle sauce. Mauviettes au gratin. 1 .arks baked in the gratin style. Mauviettes braisees au lard. Braised larks with fried bacon. Pate chaud de mauviettes. Raised pie of larks, served hot. Mauviettes d la Conti. Braised larks with truffles. Ortolans d la Provencale. Braised ortolans with stewed onions. Ortolans a la Perigord. Braised ortolans with truffles. Ortolans d la Polonaise. Stewed ortolans, with sourcrout, peas, dumplings, and small smoked sausages. Outarde en salmis. Stewed oustard. Perdreaux aux clioux. Braised partridges with stewed spring cabbages.243 ENTREES : GIBIER— GAME Perdreaux d la Pompadour. Stuffed partridges larded and braised, served with goose liver and truffle stew. Perdreaux farcis aux champignons. Stuffed partridges braised, served with mushroom stew. Salmis deperdreaux aux truffes. Stewed or jugged partridges with truffles. Salmis de perdreaux d la chasseur. Stewed partridges with chopped mushrooms, claret sauce, chopped rind of lemon, garnished with fleurons or sippets. Perdreaux d la Beauharnais. Braised partridges, garnished with stewed asparagus points, fresh button mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms, served with truffle sauce. Filets de perdreaux a la princesse. Breasts of partridges, skinned, larded with bacon and truffles, braised, and served with Madeira wine sauce. Filets de perdreaux d la marechal. Braised breasts of partridges, with truffles, mush- rooms, and fried potato dumplings. Chartreuse de perdreaux. Stewed partridges, with braised spring cabbages and young carrots, dressed in a border of macedoine. Hachis de perdreaux au Maddre. Hashed partridges with Madeira wine sauce.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 244 Pains de perdreaux d la Dauphine. Steamed dumplings of partridge forcemeat, truffles, and mushrooms, served with asparagus points, button mushrooms, and Madeira sauce. Salmis de perdreaux blancs aux olives. Stewed ptarmigan with olives. Croustades de gibier d la Gambetta. Game stew with truffles, dressed on fried bread croutons, garnished with small stuffed tomatoes. Pluviers a la P&rigueux. Braised plovers with truffles. Pluvicrs sautes au champagne. Stewed plovers with champagne sauce. Cotelettes de pluviers en cais'ses. Boned plovers, shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and braised, served in small paper cases, with chasseur sauce. Sareelles en salmis. Stewed teals.- Sarcelles bardees d la Westphalie. Braised teals harder], served with slices of broiled Westphalian ham and truffles. Tetras d’Amerique d la chasseur. American goose stewed in brown Madeira wine sauce with chopped mushrooms and shallots.245 ENTREES : GIBIER—GAME B. GIBIER QUADRUPEDE—FOUR-FOOTED GAME. Filet cle cerf, sauce poivrade. Braised fillet of deer with pepper sauce mixed with red currant jelly. Bagoilt de cerf marine. Pickled deer, stewed or jugged. Filet de cerf pique a la diable. Larded deer fillet braised, served with a sharp pepper sauce (sauce a la diable). Bagoilt de chevreuil d la bourgeoise. Stewed venison, with braised button onions. Cotelettes de chevreuil d la Turque. Venison cutlets, -egged, crumbed, and fried, served with tomato puree and fried parsley. Escalopes de chevreuil d la chasseur. Scallops of venison, prepared with a thick chasseur sauce, mixed with red currant jelly. Grenadin de chevreuil aux truffes. Small fillets of venison. Tournedos de chevreuil d la Milanaise. Small venison steaks, broiled, served with stewed macaroni and tomato sauce.246 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Noix de che.vre.uil d la geUe de groseille. Braised kernel of venison with red currant jelly sauce. Fricot de chevreuil d la Piemontaise. Jugged venison with small rice timbales and tomato sauce. Chevreuil braise d la Saint Hubert. Braised pickled venison, larded, done in brown sauce with claret and cinnamon flavouring, finished in the oven, served with a garniture of French prunes which have been stewed with the meat. Cuissot de chevreuil, sauce piquante. Part of the leg of venison braised, served with piquante sauce. Longe de chevreuil d la puree de tomate. Braised loin of venison with tomato puree. Salmis de chevreuil d la sultane. Pickled venison, jugged, done in a brown sauce, reduced with port wine, with pickled sultana raisins. Filet de venaison aux olives. Venison steaks, fried with stoned olives and brown sauce. Cuissot de venaison d la Bichemond. Pioast leg of venison larded, served with small fried sweet potatoes and red currant jelly. Jambon d’ours braise, au vin de Malaga. Braised bear’s ham, with Malaga or port wine sauce. Fricot d’ours d la chasseur. Jugged bear with chasseur sauce.247 ENTREES : GIBIER—GAME Gibelotte de lapin d la Bonrguignonne. Stewed rabbits, done in brown sauce with claret and small braised onions. Lapereaux d la minute. Wild rabbits cut into neat joints, fried in butter, and stewed in Madeira wine sauce. Lapereaux d la poulette. Wild rabbits cut into neat joints, fried in butter, stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms and chopped parsley. Lapereaux frits a la Tartare. "Wild rabbits boned, pickled in a marinade, drained, cut into neat joints, egged, crumbed, and fried in clari- fied butter, served with Tartare sauce. Lapereaux a VIndienne. Curried rabbit with boiled rice. Croquettes de lapereaux a la Maintenon. Minced cooked rabbit, pi’epared into salpieon with thick bechamel sauce, shaped into croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with brown sauce reduced with sherry wine. Cotelettes de levrauts aux truffes. Fried leveret cutlets with truffles. Levraut farci d VAmcricaine. Stuffed leveret, braised, served with demi-glace and tomato sauce. Levraut frit d VOrly. Boned leveret, cut into small pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with tomato sauce.248 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Civet dc lievre. Jugged hare. Escalopes de li&vre marinees. Pickled collops of hare, braised. Longe de lievre d la Soubise. Braised loin of hare, with onion pui-ee. Grenadins de lievres. Small fillets of hare larded and braised. Filets de lievres a VAllemande. Fillets of hare braised in white wine sauce. Cotelettes de lievres d VAllemande. Loin of hare cut into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot butter, garnished with hard-boiled eggs and pickled gherkins, served with a white wine sauce. Florendines de lievre. Boned hare stuffed with game forcemeat, rolled, and braised gently in the oven. Haricot de lievre. Hare cut into neat joints, seasoned, fried in butter, and finished in brown sauce. Civet de lievre d la Finnoise. Pickled hare jugged, finished in demi-glace sauce, with a small quantity of sour cream. Filets de lievre d la Sicilienne. Larded fillets of hare, braised and finished in reduced gravy sauce, flavoured with cinnamon and parsley, dressed in a pyramidal form, and glazed.‘249 ENTREES : GIBIER—GAME Lievre farci d la fermiere. Trussed hare, flattened, stuffed with pork force- meat, braised, dished up, and served with a brown onion sauce, mixed with finely minced ham and chopped parsley, and reduced with white wine. Pate cle lievre d VAnglaise. Hare pie. Hare cut into small joints, tilled in a pie dish, with forcemeat, slices of bacon and liver, covered with puff paste crust, and baked gently in the oven. Pate de lievre d la Frangaise. Raised pie crust, tilled with pieces of fried hare, forcemeat, bacon, and mushrooms, baked in the oven. Bdble de lievre d la Saint-Denis. Stuffed saddle of hare braised and served with truffle sauce. Bdble de lievre a la mode. Small joints of hare (fillets larded), seasoned and drained, fried in butter, stewed in brown sauce, with small squares of salt pork, served with the sauce well reduced and flavoured with chilly vinegar. Lievre en gite. Potted hare meat, prepared in a tureen with sau- sage, forcemeat, and hare fillets, moistened with Ma- deira wine, covered with slices of bacon, baked in the oven, and served cold in a tureen. Cutelettes de sanglier, sauce Madere. Wild boar cutlets, braised with Madeira wine sauce. Jambon de sanglier aux pelits pois. Braised wild boar ham with green peas.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 250 Cuissot de sanglier aux cerises. Braised loin or haunch of young wild boar, flavoured with red wine, powdered sugar and cinnamon, served with a brown sauce, mixed with stewed cherries. Cotelettes de sanglier d la Robert. Fried wild boar cutlets with Robert sauce. Carre de sanglier a la Russe. Braised neck of wild boar served with a sweet sauce (orange sauce with picked and blanched sultanas). Cdtelettes de renne, sauce poivrade. Reindeer cutlets fried, with pepper sauce. ROTIS—ROASTS Du veau.—Veal. Carre de veau roti. Roast neck of veal. Longe de veau roti. Roast loin of veal. Noix de veau roti. Roast kernel or cushion of veal. Epaule de veaiL rotie. Cuissot de veau roti. Filet de veau roti. Poitrine de veau rotie. Selle de veau roti. Fricandeau de veau roti. Roast shoulder of veal. Roast knuckle of veal. Roast fillet or loin of veal. Roast breast of veal. Roast saddle of veal. Roast cushion of veal larded.KOTIS—ROASTS ‘251 Du bceuf.- Beef. Baron de bmif rdti. Filet dc bceuf rdti. Cote de bceuf rdtie. Aloyau de bceuf rdti. Roast baron of beef. Roast fillet of beef. Roast ribs of beef. Roast sirloin of beef. De l’agneau.—Lamb. Epaule d'agneau rdtie. Roast shoulder of lamb. Gigot d'agneau rdti. Roast leg of lamb. Longe d'agneau rdtie. Roast loin of lamb. Quartier d'agneau rdti. Roast hind or fore quarter of lamb. Poitrine d’agneau rdtie. Roast breast of lamb. Selle d’agneau rdtie. Roast saddle of lamb. Du mouton.—Mutton. Carre de mouton rdti. Epaule cle mouton rdtie. Filet de mouton rdti. Gigot de mouton rdti. Hanche de mouton rdtie. Poitrine de mouton rdtie. Selle de mouton rdtie. Roast neck of mutton. Roast shoulder of mutton. Roast loin or fillet of mutton. Roast leg of mutton. Roast haunch of mutton. Roast breast of mutton. Roast saddle of mutton. Du pore.—Pork. Carrd de pore rdti. Gigot de pore rdti. Longe de pore rdtie. Echine de pore rdtie. Roast neck of pork. Roast leg of pork. Roast loin of pork. Roast chine of porkPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 252 Canetons rotis. Chapon roti. Dinde rotie. Dindon roti. De la volaille.—Poultry. Canard roti. Roast ducks. Campines roties. Roast young chickens (fine fat pullets). Roast ducklings. Roast capon. Roast turkey-hen. Roast turkey-cock. Dindonneau roti. Roast young turkey. Oie rotie, sauce aux pommes. Roast goose and apple sauce. Oison roti. Roast gosling. Pigeons rotis. Roast pigeons. Pigeonneaux rotis. Roast young pigeons. Poulet roti, sauce au pain. Roast chicken and bread sauce. Poulette rotie. Roast pullet (young hen.) Poularde rotie. Roast fat pullet. Du g'ibier.—Game. (a) Wild Poultry. Alouettes roties. Roast larks (wood larks, also called mauviettes). Bartavelle rotie. Rpast partridge (red-legge d). Bdcasse commune rotie. Roast woodcock (common snipe). Becasseau roti. Roast young woodcock. Bdcassines rdties. Roast snipes.253 ROTIS—ROASTS Bec-figues roties. Roast fig-peckers. Cailles d la broche. Roast quails. Canards sauvages rotis. Roast wild ducks. Canards sauvages a la broche. Wild ducks roasted on skewers. Cog de bois roti. Roast heatli-cock (klack grouse). Cog de bruyere roti. Roast mountain cock (wood grouse). Faisan roti a la broche. Roast pheasant. Gelinotte des bois rotie. Roast hazel-hen. Grimpereau roti. Roast woodpecker. Grives roties bardees. Roast fieldfares barded (also called thrushes). Cog de bois de Norvige roti. Roast Norwegian grouse. Jeunc paon roti. Roast young peacock. Paon roti. Roast peacock. Macreuse rotie. Roast sea-duck. Mauviettes roties bardies. Roast larks barded. Merles rotis. Roast blackbirds (water ousels). Ortolans rotis. Roast ortolans. Outarde rotie. Roast oustard. Perdreaux rotis. Roast partridges (youDg partridges). Perdrix roties. Roast partridges (red-legged partridges). Perdreau blanc roti. Roast ptarmigan. Perdreau rouge d la broche. Roast red-legged grouse. Pigeons sauvages rotis. Roast wild pigeons. Pintade rotie. Roast guinea-fowl. Pluviers rotis. Roast plovers.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 254 Poule de neige rdtie. Roast white grouse (snow grouse, or snow hen). Poule de prairie rode. Roast prairie hen. Rainiers rods. Roast wood pigeons. Rouge-gorge rod. Roast robin (red-breasted robin). Sarcelles rdties bardees. Roast teals (water-fowl), barded. Sarcelles rddes. Roast teals. Tetras d'Am&rique rod. Roast American grouse. Tourtereau rod. Roast turtle dove (tourterelle). (b) Four-footed Game. Broquart rod. Roast brocket. Cimier de cerf rod. Roast saddle of deer. Cuissot de cerf rod. Roast haunch of deer. Filet de cerf rod. Roast fillet of deer. Filet de chamois rod. Roast fillet of chamois (wild goat). Gigot de chamois rod. Roast leg of chamois. Chevrette rode. Roast fawn (young venison). Cimier de chevreuil rod. Roast saddle of venison. Epaule de chevreuil rode. Roast shoulder of venison. Longe de chevreuil rode. Roast loin of venison. Bdble de chevreuil rod. Roast saddle of venison. Gigot de chevreuil rod. Roast leg of venison. Quarder de chevreuil rod. Roast quarter of venison. Cuissot de chevreuil rod. Roast haunch of venison. Gigot de daim rod. Roast leg of deer (fallow deer). Sellc de daim rode. Roast saddle of deer.ROTIS— ROASTS 255 Sclle d'clan retie. Lidvre rdti. Mar casein rdti. Reins de sanglier rdtis. Gigot de sanglier rdti. Cuissot de sanglier rdti. Gigot de renne roti. Filet de renne rdti. Sidle de renne rotie. Roast saddle of deer. Roast hare. Roast young wild boar. Roast loin of wild boar. Roast leg of mid boar. Roast haunch of wild boar. Roast leg of reindeer. Roast fillet of reindeer. Roast saddle of reindeer. LEGUMES.—VEGETABLES Artichauts.- Artichokes. Artichauts frais. Fresh globe artichokes. Artichauts a l'Italiennc. Stewed artichokes with chopped mushrooms, and brown sauce. Artichauts frits. Fried artichokes. Artichauts farcis. Stuffed artichokes. Artichauts d la bechamel. Stewred artichokes with white sauce. Artichauts a la barigoule. (A Spanish dish.) Stewed artichokes with savoury herbs. Artichauts au gratin. Baked artichokes gratin style.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 250 Artichauts tie Jerusalem d la bechamel. Boiled Jerusalem artichokes with bechamel sauce. Artichauts d la Lyonnaise. Stewed artichokes with boiled sliced onions. Artichauts d la vinaigrette. Boiled artichokes cold, with vinaigrette sauce. Souffli cVartichauts a la Lyonnaise. Green artichoke puree, mixed with chicken souffle mixture, centre garnished with champignon puree, cooked in artichoke moulds, served hot with supreme sauce. Articliaiits sautes. Green artichokes quartered, boiled, dressed, and broiled in butter ; served hot, with or without sauce. Artichauts a la reine. Green artichoke puree and chicken cream mixture mingled with aspic and set in fancy moulds, served cold. Foncls cV artichauts d V Am&ricaine. Artichoke bottoms stuffed with chicken forcemeat, with a garnish of cooked chicken, truffle, tongue, etc., in centre, served hot with sauce, or cold with aspic. Foncls d'artichauts d la demi-glace. Artichoke bottoms with brown sauce. Foncls d’artichauts d VEspagnole. Artichoke bottoms with Espagnole sauce.LEGUMES —VEGETABLES 257 Fonds d’artichauts d la Dordelaise. Artichoke bottoms with red wine sauce and beef marrow-fat. Fonds d'artichauts a la Provengale. Artichoke bottoms stuffed with ‘onion puree and served with a rich brown sauce. Fonds d'artichauts d la poivrade. Artichoke bottoms stewed with pepper sauce. Asp erges.—Asparagus. Asperges en branches d la bechamel. Boiled asparagus with bechamel sauce. Asperges en branches au beurre fondu. Boiled asparagus with oiled butter. Asperges en branches d la Colbert. Boiled asparagus with poached eggs. Asperges en petits pois. Green asparagus points, cut very small to resemble peas, and boiled. Asperges en branches d la Piemontaise. Stewed asparagus with grated parmesan cheese and white sauce. Asperges d la vinaigrette. Boiled asparagus with vinaigrette sauce. Asperges a la Hollandaise. Boiled asparagus with Hollandaise sauce.258 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Asperges sauUes au beurre. Boiled asparagus finished in butter. Asperges a la Fribourg. Boiled asparagus, served hot, sprinkled with grated Gruyere cheese and sauced with hot oiled butter. Asperges au veloute. Stewed asparagus in veloute sauce. Asperges d la Niqoise. Boiled asparagus dished up cold and served with a sauce made of sweet oil, hard-boiled egg-yolks passed through a sieve, vinegar and seasoning. Asperges a la Bernoise. Freshly boiled asparagus dressed with layers of grated Gruyere cheese between, top covered with finely minced onions fried in butter, besprinkled with cheese and bread crumbs, baked and served (hot) on same dish. Pointes d'asperges a VArgenteuil. Puree of green asparagus points or sprue, mixed with chicken cream farce (cooked), set in asparagus- shaped mould so as to resemble a bundle of asparagus (-white part chicken forcemeat), served hot with supreme sauce, or cold with aspic and salad. Pointes d’asperges d la Stvillienne. Asparagus purde, piepared from heads, served inside a shape mounted with cooked cold asparagus, well masked with aspic. This dish is served cold, and is garnished with a salad of artichoke bottoms in the centre.259 LEGUMES — VEGETABLES Betterave.—Beetroot. Betteraves an naturel. Plain boiled beetroot. Betteraves sautees au beurre. Clove-shaped pieces of cooked beetroot tossed in butter. Betteraves d la Bordelaise. Thickly-sliced cooked beetroot broiled in sweet oil, flavoured with chopped onion, and finished in a red wine sauce. Aubergines.—Egg-plants. Aubergines d la Lyonnaise. Baked aubergines or egg-plants, with fried sliced onions. Aubergines farcies au gratin. Stuffed aubergines baked in the gratin style. Cardons.— Cardoons. Cardons, sauce d la erhne. Stewed cardoons, with white cream sauce. Cardons d VEspagnole. Stewed cardoons, with brown sauce. Cardons en croutons a la veloute. Stewed cardoons dressed on bread croutons and served with veloute sauce.260 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Carottes,—Carrots. Carottes a la bdchamel. Boiled carrots with white sauce. Carottes a la poulette. Boiled carrots with white sauce and chopped parsley. Carottes aux pointes cl'asperges et au saumon fumi. Stewed young carrots with asparagus points and slices of smoked salmon. Carottes a VEspagnole. Parboiled new carrots (pared and split in two or four), finished in white broth, Espagnole sauce, flavoured with a little sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and fresh butter. Carottes a la bourgeoise. Parboiled new carrots (pared), drained, seasoned and finished in stock with a little fresh butter, thickened with flour and butter. Carottes a la Lilloise. Pared new carrots cut into thick round slices, cooked in a little water with fresh butter and sugar to season, when done a liaison of egg-yolks, butter, cream, bechamel sauce, and chopped parsley is added. Carottes a la maitre d’ ho tel. Parboiled new carrots (pared and cut in quar- ters), drained, seasoned, cooked in white stock, thickened with veloute sauce, fresh butter, a little sugar and chopped parsley, served with fried bread croutons.LEGUMES —VEGETABLES 261 Celeri.—Celery. Ce.le.ri a l'Italienne. Parboiled celery heads, drained, seasoned, and stewed in broth, covered with a layer of thin slices of bacon, served with Italienne sauce. Celeri a la fermiere. Prepared celery heads parboiled and drained, seasoned, stewed in stock with a layer of lean pork, served with brown sauce, alternating each celery head with a slice of pork. Celeri au veloute. Stewed celery with veloute sauce, well worked with fresh butter. Cdleri a la Genevoise. Prepared celery heads, parboiled, drained, seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, stewed in a sautoir pan, with layers of fat bacon and stock; when done, drained, ranged in a baking dish, sauced over with veloute sauce, sprinkled with bread crumbs and parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven until brown. Cdleri frit d la tomate. Boiled celery (cut in four-inch lengths'), drained, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, fried in hot fat, and served with tomato sauce. Purde de celeri aux croiltons. Mashed celery, passed through a sieve, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg and a little sugar, mixed with a liaison of well-reduced bechamel sauce and fresh butter, and served with triangular slices of fried bread (croutons).PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 262 Cdleri d la paysanne. Boiled celery heads (cut in five-inch lengths), finshed in brown sauce, well buttered and seasoned. Celeri d la Villeroi. Boiled celery heads (cut in halves), drained, dipped in veloute sauce well reduced, set to cool, rolled in bread crumbs, egged, crumbed again, and fried in hot fat. Cdleri au jus. Stewed celery with gravy sauce. Celeri d VEspagnole. Stewed celery with brown sauce- Celeri d la bechamel. Stewed celery with white sauce. Cepes farcies au jus. Stuffed cepes (a kind of mushroom) with gravy. Cepes d la Provencale. Stewed cepes with onion mash (puree). Cepes d la Bordelaise. Stewed cepes, served with gravy, mixed with lemon juice and chopped parsley. Champignons.— Mushrooms. Champignons farcis. Stuffed mushrooms. Champignons d la Bordelaise. Broiled mushrooms, seasoned with Cayenne pepper, served with gravy sauce, mixed with chopped shallots previously fried in butter, and chopped parsley.LEGUMES —VEGETABLES 263 Champignons ci la casse-tout. Mushrooms placed on buttered toast and baked in the oven. Champignons aux fines herhes. Stewed mushrooms with savoury herb sauce. Champignons au bearre. Broiled button mushrooms in fresh butter, served on toast. Champignons au gratin. Mushrooms seasoned with grated ham, chopped parsley, herbs, shallots, &c., dished on a well-buttered gratin dish, sauced with a well-buttered Madere sauce, sprinkled with bread crumbs, and baked in the usual way. Champignons a la Piemontaise. Broiled fresh mushrooms, cut in slices, finished in a sauce of melted butter, lemon juice, and chopped parsley. Champignons a la Provengale. Fresh button mushrooms fried in oil, finished in a rich gravy sauce with chopped shallots, bruised garlic, chopped parsley, and lemon juice, seasoned with Cayenne pepper, and served with croutons. Champignons farcis a la Napolitaine. Fresh cup mushrooms stuffed with the stalks finely chopped, garlic, shallots, and parsley, all chopped fine, grated parmesan cheese, and bread crumbs, ranged on a baking sheet, sprinkled with fresh crumbs and cheese and a few drops of sweet oil, baked in the oven, and served with demi-glace sauce well seasoned.264 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Chicoree.—Chicory or Endive. Chicoree d la demi-glace. Stewed endive with brown sauce. Chicoree a la creme. Stewed endive with cream sauce. Choux.—Cabbages. Chou blanc farci. Braised stuffed white cabbage. Choux-brocolis. Broccoli sprouts. Choux d la Lilloise. Small pieces of cabbage broiled in butter, seasoned with chopped onions, parsley, nutmeg, &c. Choux blancs d VItalienne. Stewed white cabbage served with braised chestnuts and small fried sausages. Choucroute au four. Sourcrout stewed in the oven. Choucroute au champagne. Stewed sourcrout in champagne. Choucroute a VAlsacienne. Stewed sourcrout with boiled bacon and smoked sausages. Choux de Bruxelles sautes. Boiled Brussels sprouts broiled in fresh butter. Choux de Bruxelles a la maitre cVhotel. Boiled Brussels sprouts with maitre d’hhtel butter or sauce.LEGUMES—VEGETABLES 265 Chou de Milan braisd. Braised Milan cabbage. Chou de mer d la bechamel (Chou marin d' Angle terre). Sea-kale with white sauce. Chou de mer a la Hollandaise. Sea-kale with Hollandaise sauce. Choux /rises or chou crepu. Scotch kale. Chaux de Savoie. Savoy cabbage. Chou-fleur d I’Anglaise. Boiled cauliflower with melted butter sauce. Chou-fleur au beurre fondu. Cauliflower with oiled butter. Chou-fleur au gratin. Cauliflower gratin style. Chou-fleur d la Piemontaise. Cauliflower with white sauce, mixed with grated parmesan cheese. Chou-fleur a la Francaise. Cauliflower trimmed, cut into quarters, boiled and stewed in white sauce, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Chou a la Hollandaise. Cauliflower with Hollandaise sauce. Chou-fleur farci. Stuffed and braised cauliflower. Chou pornme braise. Stewed Welsh cabbage (white-headed cabbage). Chou-navet—Chou-rave. Turnip cabbage. Chou printanier. Spring cabbage.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 2GG Chou rouge dtouffd. Stewed red cabbage. Chou rouge A la Frangaise. Stewed red cabbage with braised chestnuts. Iiejet de chou. Chou, sauvage. Choux-verts. Cabbage sprouts. Curled cabbage. Greens. Celeriac.—Celery knobs. Cdleriac A la b&chamel. Stewed celeriac with white sauce. Celeriac A la Villeroi. Boiled celery knobs cut in thick slices, immersed in thick veloute sauce, set to cool, rolled in fresh bread crumbs, dipped in egg, crumbed again, fried in hot fat, and served with fried parsley. Celeriac A VEspagnole. Stewed celeriac with brown sauce. Citronille farcie. Stuffed pumpkin. Concombres.—Cucumbers. Concombres A la rnaitre d'hotel. Broiled cucumbers with rnaitre d’hotel sauce. Concombres farcis. Braised stuffed cucumbers. Concombres A la tomate. Stewed cucumbers with tomato sauce.2G7 LEGUMES —VEGETABLES Concombres d la creme. Stewed cucumbers with cream sauce. Concombres sautes aux fines herbcs. Sliced cucumbers broiled, flavoured with finely chopped green herbs. Puree de concombres. Mashed cucumbers passed through a sieve, mixed with a little bechamel sauce, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little sugar. Concombres d I'Espacjnolc. Parboiled cucumbers (cut in quarters, drained, fried in butter, and served with Espagnole sauce. Concombres a VItalienne. Cucumbers stuffed with forcemeat, chopped mush- rooms, and savoury herbs, braised, cut crosswise in inch-thick pieces, ranged in layers on a dish, sprinkled with parmesan cheese, and sauced over with hot veloute sauce. Epinards.—Spinach. Epinards au jus. Spinach with gravy. Epinards a la Frangaisc. Spinach prepared with cream sauce. Epinards a la bechamel. Spinach prepared with white sauce. Epinards d la Colbert. Spinach with poached eggs. Poulade dVpinards. Pancakes filled with spinach. 17268 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Feves de marais. - Broad beans (Windsor beans). Feves de marais d la creme. Broad beans with white cream sauce. F&ves de marais aux fines herbcs. Broad beans with parsley sauce. Feves de marais au lard. Broad beans with broiled bacon. Feves de marais a la poulette. Stewed broad beans with white sauce and chopped parsley. Feves de haricot a la Provencale. Kidney beans stewTed, with fried sliced onions. Haricots blancs.—White haricot beans. Haricots blancs a la Bretonne. ■ Stewed white haricot beans, flavoured with finely chopped onions and parsley. Haricots blancs a la bechamel. Stewed white haricot beans in white sauce. Haricots blancs a la Lyonnaise. Stewed white haricot beans with sliced fried onions. Haricots veits.—French beans. Haricots verts a la Franqaise. Boiled French beans broiled in butter.269 LEGUMES—VEGETABLES Haricots verts sautes au beurre. French beans boiled, drained, seasoned, and broiled in butter. Haricots verts sautes aucc fines herbes. French beans boiled, drained, seasoned, and broiled in butter, with chopped parsley. Haricots verts d la Lyonnaise. Broiled French beans with fried onions, thinly sliced. Jets de houblons a la Polonaise. Stewed hop sprigs with fried bread crumbs. Laitues.—Lettuces. Laitues braisees. Braised cabbage lettuce. Laitues farcies braisees. Braised stuffed cabbage lettuces. Puree de Lentilles. Mashed lentils. Lentilles en fricassee. Broiled lentils in white sauce. Navets.—Turnips. Ncivets braisds. Braised turnips. Puree de navets. Mashed turnips. Navets d la veloute. Stewed turnips in white sauce Navets a la bourgeoise. Stewed turnips in parsley sauce. Macedoine de leg limes. Mixed vegetables cut into small pieces.270 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Macddoine d la printanidre. Mixed spring vegetables stewed. Macdcloine de Ugumes d la bdchamcl. Mixed vegetable stew in white sauce. Petits pois verts a la Franqaise. Green peas boiled and finished in butter, with fried minced ham and chopped parsley. Petits pois saides au lard fume. Green peas boiled and sauteed wuth small pieces of fried bacon. Petits p>ois au jambon grille. Green peas with broiled ham. Pommes de terre.—Potatoes. Note.—In compiling menus it is not necessary to spell “Pommes de terre” in full. “Pommes” is sufficient, if the name of the dish follows, i.e. Pommes d la Vicnnoise, Pommes pailles, Pommes soufflees, Pommes chateau, Pommes Parisiennes, etc. Pommes de terre roties ate four. Baked potatoes (done in the oven). Pommes de terre de poisson. Neatly shaped potatoes boiled in salt wrater, drained, dished up, and served with melted butter poured over them. Pommes satdees. Cold boiled potatoes cut into slices and broiled with a little butter. Pommes de terre au natural. Plain boiled potatoes. Pommes de terre bouillies. Boiled potatoes. Pommes de terre souffl&es. Souffle potatoes, or potato puffs.271 LEGUMES—VEGETABLES Pornmes de terre /rites. Fried potatoes. Pommes de terre nouvclles. New potatoes. Pommes de terre cuites sous la cendre. Potatoes baked in hot ashes (in their jackets). Pommes de terre cuites au bouillon. Potatoes boiled in beef broth. Pommes de terre en robe de chambre. Potatoes boiled in their jackets. Pommes sautees a la Lyonnaise. Potatoes broiled same as saute potatoes, with finely chopped fried onions. Bor dure de puree de pommes. Border of mashed potatoes. Pommes de terre a la Brabanconnc. Mashed potatoes mixed with finely chopped blanched shallots, parsley, and grated cheese, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, dressed on a hollow dish, surface sprinkled with bread crumbs, grated cheese, and a few bits of butter, baked till brown in the oven. Pommes de terre d la Hollandaise. Plain boiled potatoes, dished up, seasoned, sauced over with oiled butter and a few drops of lemon juice. Pommes de terre a la villageoise. Finely chopped cold potatoes seasoned, stewed in a little cream and fresh butter. Pommes de terre an parmesan. Stewed potatoes with grated parmesan cheese.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 272 Pommes de terre a la Navarraise. Peeled potatoes cut in half-inch squares, fried in sweet oil, drained, sprink'led with salt, and served cn a folded napkin. Pommes de terre d la duchesse. Mashed potatoes seasoned, shaped into fingers, or other shapes, placed on a well-buttered baking sheet, brushed over with yolk of eggs, and baked in the oven. Pommes de terre en puree d la Jackson. Mashed potatoes garnished with filleted Gorgona anchovies. Pommes de terre d la Dauphine. Prepared potato puree as for croquettes, mixed with pate a choux, shaped into small balls the size of walnuts, and fried in clarified butter. Croquettes de pommes de terre. Potato puree, seasoned, mixed with yolk of egg, shaped into balls, or any other shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. Beignets de pommes de terre. Fried potatoes, dumplings, or fritters. Puree de pommes de terre a la crime. Mashed potatoes with cream. Povimes de terre d la Parisienne. Small ball-shaped potatoes, scooped out when peeled, blanched, and fried in clarified butter. Pommes de terre d la Strasbourg. Sliced stewed potatoes in white sauce, dished up, and baked in the oven.273 LEGUMES —VEGETABLES Pommes de terre au jus. Stewed potatoes in gravy. Pommes de terre d la Chateaubriand. Peeled potatoes cut in parts, pared to the size and shape of olives, parboiled in salt water, drained, fried in butter, dished up and served with a few bits of parsley butter on the top. Pommes de terre d la Bretonne. Cold boiled potatoes, peeled, cut in squares, broiled in butter, mixed with finely chopped fried onions, chopped parsley, and a little brown sauce. Pomme de terre d la Worlitz. Potato puree prepared as for croquets, shaped into squares, egged, crumbed in grated parmesan cheese, on one side only, adding a small piece of lobster butter on centre of each, and baked in a very hot oven. Pommes de terre a la creme. Stewed potatoes in white cream sauce. Pommes de terre d la Turqne. Potato puree prepared as for croquets, made into small half-moon shapes filled with anchovy paste, egged, crumbed, and baked in clarified butter. Cotelcttes de pommes de terre.' Potato puree as above shaped into cutlet shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. Pommes de terre au gratin. Potato puree prepared with cream, seasoned, dressed on a gratin dish well buttered, covered with bread crumbs and grated parmesan cheese a few pieces of fresh butter, and baked in the oven.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 274 Pommes de terre chdtecm. Oval shapes of potatoes, blanched, drained, and fried a light colour in clarified butter. Pommes pailles. Straw potatoes. Very thin strips of potatoes, shape and size of matches, fried a light brown colour in clarified butter. Pommes de terre a la Bignon. Boiled peeled potatoes, inside scooped out, filled with well seasoned sausage meat, opening closed with a piece of potato, and baked in clarified butter. Pommes de terre d la Reitz. Peeled potatoes cut into small thin strips and fried crisp in butter. Pommes coupeauts. Potato ribbons. Potatoes peeled, cut similar to sugar loaves ; peeled thickly, in order that the peeling of each potato may remain whole ; and fried in very hot dripping. Pommes de terre d la Madeleine. Small even-shaped kidney potatoes, washed, peeled, placed in a well-buttered saute pan, seasoned, and baked in the oven. Pommes de terre d la bechamel. Stewed potatoes in white sauce. Pommes de terre rissoUcs. Very small shapes of balls, cut out of potatoes, par- boiled, drained, and broiled in hot butter until done.LEGUMES—VEGETABLES 275 Pommes de tcrre d la viaitre d’hotcl. Stewed sliced potatoes in white sauce, with chopped parsley. Pommes de tcrre pcrsilUes. Peeled potatoes cut into shapes of walnuts, boiled in salt water, drained, broiled in fresh butter, sprinkled with chopped parsley. Pommes de terre a la Garfield. Potatoes cut into small discs, parboiled, and finished in clarified butter. Pommes de tcrre d la comtesse. Thin slices of raw potatoes ranged neatly in a well- buttered timbale mould, seasoned with veloute sauce, and baked in a hot oven. Pommes de terre d la Colbert. Cold boiled potatoes cut into squares, seasoned with popper and salt, stewed in gravy sauce, finished with a little fresh butter and chopped parsley. Croquettes de pommes de terre a la Bouennaise. Mashed potatoes, prepared as for croquets, made in size and shape as olives, dipped in frying batter, fried in hot fat, drained, sprinkled with salt, and served on a folded napkin. Povnnes.de terre machecs. Potatoes boiled in beef broth, made into a puree, seasoned with white pepper, a little grated nutmeg, when served sprinkled over with finely chopped parsley. Pommes de terre d la bounjeoise. Thickly sliced potatoes stewed in a lich brown sauce, flavoured with onions.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 276 Pommes de terre d la Chantilly. Potatoes cut out into round shapes, parboiled in salt water, drained, and finished cooking in a rich bechamel sauce, when served sprinkled with a little hot meat glace. Pommes de terre a l'Allemande. ■ Plain boiled potatoes, dished up, sauced over with a sauce composed of a little brown sauce mixed with lemon juice, white wine, well reduced and thickened with a liaison of egg yolks and butter. Pommes chippes. Chipped potatoes. Pommes de terre a la Saxonne. Medium-sized balls of potato puree (same as for croquets), egged and crumbed three distinct times, well fried in hot dripping; when done cut open, made hollow and filled with onion puree, reclosed and served quickly. Puree de pommes a la bourgeoise. Mashed potatoes dressed on a dish in dome form, surface basted with melted butter, sprinkled over with fresh bread crumbs, with a few small pieces of butter, and baked in a moderate oven. Pommes de terre a la Mantaise. Mashed potatoes dished up in dome form, masked over with a thick supreme sauce mingled with some potato puree, sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs and a few drops of oiled butter, and browned in the oven. Pommes de terre a VAnglaise. Boiled potatoes, peeled, dished up, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, sauced over with melted butter, and served.LEGUMES—VEGETABLES 277 Pommes de terre a la Tyroliennc. Medium-sized kidney potatoes seasoned, stewed slowly in a stewpan with cream, beef broth, and small pieces of butter, when dished up sprinkled with grated cheese. Pommes de terre a la paysanne. Thickly sliced potatoes, stewed in beef broth, flavoured with onions which were previously fried and added. Before serving a little demi-glace sauce is added or poured over the potatoes when dished up. Pommes de terre a la San Remo. Small potato dumplings seasoned with pepper,.salt, and nutmeg, dipped in melted butter and chopped parsley, then in grated parmesan cheese; when set egged, crumbed in fresh bread crumbs, and fried in clarified butter. Pommes de terre melangies. Coarsely sliced potatoes parboiled, mixed with an equal quantity of sliced cooking apples, stewed well together, with a little fresh butter seasoned with salt. Pommes de terre d la bonne femme. Stewed sliced potatoes, same as for paysanne style, adding some discs of fried bacon. Pommes de terre farcies. Large kidney potatoes peeled, made hollow and filled with any kind of forcemeat, placed in a well-buttered saute pan, baked in the oven, and glazed with meat glaze when done. Pommes de terre au lard. Cold potatoes cut into discs, mixed with discs of bacon, seasoned, and fried in butter.278 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Pommes de terre a la Bordelaise. Peeled potatoes, thinly sliced, fried soft, drained, broiled in a saute pan with oiled butter and finely chopped onions. Pomvies cle terre a VEspagnole. Sliced potatoes, boiled and drained, served with Espagnole sauce. Pommes de terre a I’ltalienne. Sliced raw potatoes, placed in layers in a w^ell- buttered flat mould alternately with slices of salami sausage and a thick wdiite sauce consisting of cream, chopped hard-boiled yolks of eggs, grated parmesan cheese, chopped cooked ham, and finely cut fillets of apchovies, the last layer of the mould being anchovies. Baked in the mould in a hot oven. Pommes de terre frisees. Shapes of curls cut out of large kidney potatoes with a special cutter, resembling curls when fried in clarified butter. Quenelles de pommes de terre. Potato dumplings poached in salt water, drained, dished up, and sprinkled over with fresh bread crumbs fried in butter. Pommes de terre a la SuAdoise. Stewed sliced potatoes, with onions and meat gravy. Pommes de terre a la Hanovrienne. Peeled potatoes sliced, stewed in white stock, with fresh butter and chopped parsley.LEGUMES —VEGETABLES 279 Pommes de terre a Vimperatrice. Small walnut shapes, cut out of raw potatoes, par- boiled, drained, mixed with sliced truffles and mush- rooms, and broiled in butter until quite done. Pommes dc terre d la julienne. Peeled raw potatoes, cut in small square shred3, fried crisp in hot fat, drained, sprinkled with salt, and served on a folded napkin. Pommes de terre d la Dicppoise. Cold boiled potatoes, cut into slices, together with cold sausages, broiled in butter, seasoned and served with a light brown sauce. Pommes de terre a la Viennoise. Raw potatoes cut into discs, stewed in beef broth, flavoured with onions and cloves, and sprinkled with finely chopped parsley when dished up. Pomme de terre a la Milanaise. Raw potatoes cut into discs, parboiled, drained, and seasoned, stewed in white sauce with discs of cooked ham, grated parmesan cheese ; when done mixed with yolks of eggs, and placed in a dish to cool, shaped into croquets, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot fat or dripping. Pommes de terre d la Vaudoise. Sliced peeled potatoes, ranged in layers on a buttered baking dish alternately with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated Gruyere cheese. Sprinkle top with grated cheese, bread crumbs, and a few drops of oiled butter, and bake in the oven.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 280 Pornmes de terra a la Robert. Stewed sliced potatoes in a sharp brown sauce. Salsifis.—Salsifits. Salsifis frits. Fried salsifits. Salsifis d la bechamel. Stewed salsifits in white sauce. Salsifis d la Hollandaise. Stewed salsifits with Hollaudaise sauce. Salsifis au beurre fondu. Stewed salsifits with oiled butter. Beignets de salsifis. Salsifit fritters. Tomates. Tomates crues. Tomates au natural. Beignets de tomates. Purde de tomates. Tomates sautees. Tomates frites. Tomates farcies. —Tomatoes. Raw tomatoes. Plain boiled tomatoes. Tomato fritters. Mashed tomatoes. Broiled tomatoes in butter Fried tomatoes. Stuffed tomatoes. Tomates au gratin. Tomatoes prepared and baked in the gratin style. Tomates aux fines herbes. Tomatoes stewed with finely-chopped herbs. Tomates grillees. Grilled tomatoes.LEGUMES—VEGETABLES 281 Tomates'd la Toscane. Stuffed tomatoes braised, served with Perigord sauce. Tomatcs farcies a la Provengale. Braised tomatoes, stuffed with onion purde flavoured with garlic, served with demi-glace sauce. Tomalcs a la Sicilienne. Tomatoes, centre cut out and filled with a mixture of tomato pulp, finely chopped ham, parsley, shallots, mushrooms, and bread crumbs, moistened with a well- reduced Madere sauce, ranged on baking sheet, sprinkled with bread crumbs, grated cheese, and a few drops of oil, and baked in the oven. Tomates a la Florentine. Halves of tomatoes stuffed with a mixture of finely chopped chicken livers, grated pannesan cheese, egg yolks, finely chopped shallots, fried in oil, and white bread crumbs, moistened with sherry wine, and well seasoned, ranged on baking-sheet, sprinkled with bread crumbs, grated cheese, and a little oiled butter, and baked in the oven. Tomates a VEspagnole. Tomatoes stuffed with forcemeat, bread crumbs, finely-chopped ham, moistened with egg yolk, brown sauce, and seasoned. Braised in the oven and served with demi-glace sauce. Tomates a la Caroline. Baked tomatoes stuffed with rice, previously stewed in beef stock, well seasoned, and mixed with a little grated parmesan cheese.282 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Toviates farcies a la reine. Fresh tomatoes (firm) scooped out, stuffed with chicken forcemeat, baked, and served with Madbre sauce. Toviates roties. Roasted tomatoes (cut in halves without detaching them entirely, seeds removed, a small piece of butter and seasoning put in centre, closed up, covered with buttered paper, and baked). Toviates a la Bock (American dish). Sliced tomatoes broiled in butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon juice, and chopped parsley. Toviates a VAlgerienne. Puree of tomatoes, mixed with veloute sauce, aspic, and whipped cream, set in little moulds (tomato shape), served cold. Toviates a la Marseillaise. Halves of tomatoes, seasoned, fried in oil, cut sides spread with a mixture of hard-boiled egg-yolk, chopped shallots, chieves and parsley, butter, and pounded anchovies, sprinkled with bread crumbs, and baked. Topinambours.—Jerusalem artichokes. Topinambours a la poulette. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes done in parsley sauce (bechamel and chopped parsley).LEGUMES—VEGETABLES 283 Topinambours d la crime. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes in white cream sauce. Topinambours cl VIndienne. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes done in curry sauce. Topinambours au gralin. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes prepared and baked in the gratin style. Topinambours d V Espagnole. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes with brown sauce. Topinambours d la Bechamel. Stewed Jerusalem artichokes in white sauce. Purie cle topinambours. Mashed Jerusalem artichokes. Topinambours d la Georgienne. Boiled Jerusalem artichokes, sliced, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, fried in butter, dished up, and sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs fried slightly brown. Truffes—Truffles. Puree cle truffes. Mashed truffles, done in butter and brown sauce. Truffes d Vltalicnne. Slices of truffles, broiled in fresh butter, with finely mixed shallots and parsley, moistened with brown gravy and lemon-juice ; seasoned with salt, cayenne, and a little ground mace. Buisson cle truffes d la Roy ale. Large round truffles, cleaned and dried, stewed in Madeira wine, set to cool, drained, and served on an 18PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 284 oval-shaped bread-crust, covered with a napkin, decorated with silver skewers stuck with truffles and parsley leaves. Truffes d la serviette.* Prepared whole truffles, served cold on folded napkin. Truffes cle Perigorcl. Black Perigord truffles. * Truffes sautces en champagne. Broiled truffles in champagne. Truffes sauU.es a la Piemontaise. Broiled Piedmontese truffles. Oignons d'Espagne bouillis. Plain boiled Spanish onions. Oignons d’Espagne d la demi-glace. Stewed or boiled Spanish onions with brown sauce. Salades. — Salads. Salacles d VAnglcdse. English salads. These consist of coss lettuces, green mint, salad herbs, beetroot, radishes and spring onions, with usual dressing. Salaclc cl'asperges. Asparagus salad. Salacle de concombrcs. Cucumber salad. Salade Francaise. French salad. These consist of cabbage lettuces, endives, monk's- beard, corn salad, dandelion, and sliced beetroot, with seasoning of one part of oil, two of French vinegar, finely chopped salad herbs and French mustard, garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs. * Truffles A, la serviette are usually sent to table with some fresh butter served separately.SALADES—SALADS 285 Salade de betterave d Beetroot and Spanish onion V Espagnole. salad. Salade cl Vltaliennc. Italian salad. Prepared with various kinds of meats or fish, cooked vegetables, tunny fish, anchovies, olives, capers, pickles, and Tartare sauce dessing. Salade de haricots verts. Salade vcrte. Salade de legumes. Salade de pommes de terre. Salade de choux-fleurs. Salade cle salsifis. Salade de celeri. Salade de champignons. Salade de betterave. Salade cle tomatcs. Salade cle civettes. Salade cle radis. Salade cle fonds cVartichauts Salade cle semence de raves. Salacle de pommes. Salacle de chicoree. Salade cle clioux - cle Bruxelles. Salacle de truffes. Salade d la romaine. Salacle d la paysanne. French bean salad. Green salad. Vegetable salad. Potato salad. Cauliflower salad. Salsify salad. Celery salad. Mushroom salad. Beetroot salad. Tomato salad. Chives salad. Radish salad. .Salad of artichoke bottoms. Cole seed salad. Apple salad. Chicory or endive salad. Brussels sprouts salad. Truffle salad. Coss lettuce salad. Farmhouse salad. Prepared with sliced cooked red cabbage (pickled), cold potatoes, and celery roots, all cut in slices ; seasoned with pepper, salt, oil and vinegar. Salacle d la Grimod. Cabbage lettuces, cooked French beans and beetroots, ranged on toasted bread slices previously dipped in sweet oil, garnished with groups of finely chopped white and yolk of eggs, beetroots or chervil; seasoned with pepper, salt, oil, and chilli vinegar.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 280 Salade cle l&gumes a la Lyonnaise. Vegetable salad (macedoine of vegetables), mingled with thin slices of Lyons sausage shredded, anchovy fillets, olives, capers, and beetroots ; served with cold ravigote sauce. Salade d la Dumas. Small squares of cooked potatoes, beetroots, gherkins or pickled cucumbers, and raw tomatoes, dressed with a mixture of hard yolks of eggs rubbed through a sieve, anchovy essence, oil,vinegar, pepper and salt; ornamented with chopped white of eggs, tarragon, chervil, beetroots, chives, and white lettuce leaves. Salade a la Comtoise. Lettuce salad, with coarsely minced streaked salt pork (petit sale), fried crisp in butter, poured hot over the salad, well mixed and served. Salt should be omitted in this salad, as the pork is usually salt enough. Salade a VItalienne. Italian salad. Cooked carrots, turnips, potatoes, and beetroots, cut out in half-inch thick round slices, ranged in pyramid form in salad bowl, with cooked Brussels sprouts, French beans, and sprigs of cauliflowers ; dressed with ravigote sauce. Salade d la Sotteville. Coss lettuce salad, prepared with a dressing of pepper, salt, vinegar, fresh cream, and chopped parsley. Salade de laitue. Cabbage lettuce salad. Salade de haricots blancs. Kidney bean salad. Salade de cresson. Watercress salad.. Salade a VEspagnole. Spanish salad. Prepared with sliced tomatoes, kidney beans, French beans, Spanish peas, pickled button onions, and mayon- naise sauce. Salade a la Busse. Russian salad. Consists of a mixture of cooked carrots, beetroots, parsnips, and gherkins cut in small squares or oblongs,SALADES—SALADS 287 capers, peas, scraped horseradish, lobster meat, ham and tongue cut in small squares, dressed with dissolved aspic jelly and mayonnaise sauce, garnished with aspic jelly and caviare. Salade d la Rachel. Celery salad, Rachel style. Shred celery stalks and whites of hard-boiled eggs, seasoned with Prince of Wales sauce (see Sauces), garnished with yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Saladc d la Polonaise. Polish salad. Prepared with lettuce, endives, celery, sliced potatoes, apples, smoked salmon, and fillets of anchovies, seasoned with the usual salad dressing, garnished with minced ham and hard-boiled eggs. Salade Sutdoise. Swedish salad. Consists of pickled filleted herrings, cold beef, boiled potatoes, sour apples (all cut into dice), chopped capers and gherkins, tarragon and chervil, seasoned with plain salad dressing; garnished with olives, fillets of anchovies and oysters. Saladc d’etc. Summer salad. Prepared with lettuce, cucumber, artichoke bottoms, all cut into thin slices; seasoned with ordinary salad dressing, and garnished with radishes and pickled red cabbage. Salade d'hiver. Winter salad. A mixture of finely shred endive, celery, beetroot, horseradish, and boiled potatoes ; seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. Salade d la Reine. Queen salad. White celery stalks, whites of hard-boiled eggs, finely shred; seasoned with tartare sauce, finely chopped truffles and parsley, and garnished with slices of Brunswick sausage and yolks of hard-boiled eggs.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 288 Salade de raiponces. Rampion salad. Salade d la Flamande. Flemish salad. A mixture of fillets of Dutch herrings, apples, beet- root, cooked potatoes, Brussels sprouts, seakale and cauliflower, cut up coarsely, seasoned with the ordinary salad, dressing. Salade d la Gazanova. Cazanova salad. Prepared with coarsely shred celery, truffles, and whites of hard-boiled eggs ; seasoned with mayonnaise sauce and finely chopped salad herbs and shallots. Salade de poisson. Salade de homard. Salade d’anchois. Salade de crabe Salade aux ceufs. Salade de volaille. Salade de bceuf fume. Salade de gibier. Salade cfe per dr can. Salade de lapin. Salade de perdrix blanche. Salade d'oranges. Salade an jambon. Salade Napolitaine. Fish salad. Lobster salad. Anchovy salad. Crab salad. Egg salad. Chicken salad. Hamburg beef salad. Game salad. Partridge salad. Rabbit salad. Ptarmigan salad. Orange salad. Ham salad. Naples salad. Consists of thin slices of Bologna sausage and sliced hard-boiled eggs, dressed alternately en couronne ; centre filled with shred celery, lettuce and beetroot; dressed with tartare sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Salade a Vamericaine. American salad. Finely shred white leaves of cow-cabbage, mixed with pickled chilli pods ; seasoned with mayonnaise sauce.289 PICKLED VEGETABLES, ETC. Legumes confits au Vinaigre et Salades de Fruits au Vinaigre. Vegetable Pickles, and Sour Fruit Salads. Piccalilli. Noix mar tildes. Goncombres marines. Aubergines marinees. Betteraves marinees. Choux-Heurs marines. Champignons au vinaigre. Ble de Turquie au vinaigre. Haricots verts au vinaigre. Olives marinees. Oignons au vinaigre. Chou rouge au vinaigre. Cornichons an vinaigre. Goncombres d la moutarde. Goncombres en remoulade. Pickles Indienne. Poivre de Guinee rouge au vinaigre. Ails au vinaigre. Raifort marine. Topinambours au vinaigre. Bchalotes au vinaigre. Tomates marinees. Melons marines. Fonds d’artichauts marines. Barbillons au vinaigre. Poivre de Guinie au vinaigre. Citrons marines. Ganneberges (airelles) au vinaigre. Mixed pickles. Pickled walnuts. Pickled cucumbers. Pickled egg-plants. Pickled beetroot. Pickled cauliflower. Pickled mushrooms. Pickled Indian corn. Pickled French beans. Pickled olives. Pickled onions. Pickled red cabbage. Gherkin pickles. Cucumber pickled in mustard sauce. Cucumber in mustard and tomato sauce. West Indian pickles. Pickled red chillies. Garlic pickle. Horseradish pickle. Pickled Jerusalem arti- chokes. Pickled shallots. Pickled tomatoes. Pickled melons. Pickled artichoke bottoms. Pickled barberries. Pickled capsicums. Pickled lemons. Pickled cranberries.. PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 290 SAUCES. — SAUCES. Sauce d Vamiral. Admiral sauce. A white sauce, with chopped capers, parsley, lemon- rind and juice, and anchovy paste to flavour. Sauce Allemande. German sauce. A white sauce, made from veal stock, thickened with flour, cream, and yolks of eggs, flavoured with nutmeg and lemon juice. Sauce Aitrore. Aurora sauce. Consists of Bechamel sauce, cream, red pepper, tar- ragon and shallot, flavouring with finely chopped lobster to give it a reddish tint. Sauce Albert. Albert sauce. Consists of Allemande sauce, finely chopped shallots reduced in tarragon vinegar, grated horse-radish, cream, yolk of eggs, and chopped parsley. Sazoce anchois. Anchovy sauce. A fish sauce made with flour, fish stock, fresh butter, and anchovy essence. Satice Avignonnaise. Avignonese sauce. Consists of Bechamel sauce, yolks of eggs, grated parmesan, and chopped parsley ; flavoured with shallots and garlic. Sauce aux airelles rouges. Cranberry sauce. Sauce d la minute. Hasty sauce. Sauce Bearnaise. Bearnaise sauce. Consists of meat-extract, fresh butter, yolks of eggs, chopped shallots, tarragon, parsley, cayenne pepper, and lemon juice. Sauce Bechamel. Bechamel sauce. Made with milk, flour, and butter, flavoured with pepper, nutmeg and bay-leaf.SAUCES 291 Sauce au beurre noir. Burnt butter sauce. A thin, browil sauce made with brown butter, flavoured with tarragon vinegar and anchovy essence. Sauce bigarade. Bigarade sauce. A brown sauce, flavoured with bitter oranges. Sauce au beurre. Butter sauce. Sauce blanche d Vcinglaise. Melted butter sauce. Sauce Bohemienne. Bohemian sauce. A white sauce made with fresh bread-crumbs, white stock, butter, and grated horseradish; seasoned with pepper and salt. Sauce Bretonne. Bretonne sauce. A brown onion sauce. Sauce Borclelaise. Bordelaise sauce. A brown sauce with beef marrow, red wine, chopped parsley, tarragon, and shallots. Sauce Bourguignonne. Burgundy sauce. A brown sauce, composed of Espagnole sauce, finely minced onions, and parsley reduced in Burgundy wine ; flavoured with thyme, bay-leaf, cloves and mace. Sauce d la creme. Cream sauce. Bechamel sauce finished with fresh cream. Sauce aux cdpres. Caper sauce. Sauce aux cdpres brume. Brown caper sauce. A brown sauce, with coarsely chopped capers, seasoned with nutmeg and black pepper. Sauce cardinal. Cai’dinal sauce. A rich white fish sauce, mixed with lobster spawn, flavoured with essence of anchovies and chilli vinegar. Sauce Cazcinoya. Cazanova sauce. A cold fish or salad sauce, composed of mayonnaise sauce, with finely shred truffles, whites of hard-boiled eggs, flavoured with garlic.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 292 Sauce au c&leri. Celery sauce. A white sauce with cooked minced telery, served with boiled poultry. Sauce Chateaubriand. Chateaubriand sauce. A rich brown sauce made with meat glaze, Espagnole sauce, fresh butter, white wine, lemon juice, and chopped parsley ; flavoured with cayenne pepper and red currant jelly. Sauce chasseur. Hunter’s sauce. Consists of Espagnole sauce, chopped shallots, mush- rooms, and parsley; flavoured with pepper, lemon juice, and game essence. Sauce chevreuil. Venison sauce. A brown sauce, with claret, port wine, and thinly sliced gherkins ; seasoned with red pepper. Sauce aux champignons. Mushroom sauce. Sauce aux crevcttes. Shrimp sauce. Sauce Cumberland. Cumberland sauce. A brown sauce, flavoured with Seville oranges, red currant jelly, and mustard boiled with the sauce. Sauce chaudfroid brune. Brown chaudfroid sauce. A rich brown sauce mixed with savoury jelly, to which is added the flavour of certain fish, meat or game. Used as dressing for the preparation of chaudfroid dishes. Sauce chaudfroid blonde. White chaudfroid sauce. Sauce Colbert. Colbert sauce. A brown fish sauce, with chopped parsley and tarragon, fresh butter and lemon juice. Sauce cornichons. Gherkin sauce. Poivrade sauce mixed with finely mineed gherkins. Sauce demi-glace. Demi-glaze sauce. A clear brown sauce reduced with meat extract.293 SAUCES Sauce ci la Diable. Devilled sauce. A brown sauce with finely chopped shallots, seasoned with Cayenne pepper, chilli vinegar, and Harvey sauce. Sauce Duxellcs. Duxelles sauce. A brown sauce, with finely chopped truffles, mush- rooms, cooked ham, parsley and shallots, thickened with egg-yolks, and flavoured with lemon juice. Sauce a la Ditchesse. Ducliesse sauce. A white sauce, with finely chopped white mushrooms, cooked ox-tongue, and fresh butter as liaison. Sauce diplomate. Diplomatic sauce. A fish sauce, consisting of Bechamel sauce, lobster coral, fresh butter, and anchovy essence. Sauce echalote. Shallot sauce. A brown gravy sauce with finely minced shallots, lemon juice, and chopped parsley. Sauce Espagnole. Spanish sauce. A thick brown gravy: serves as foundation of most brown sauces used in cookery. Sauce a Vessence cle gibier. Essence of game sauce. Sauce epicure. Epicurean sauce. A white fish sauce, consisting of melted butter sauce, mixed with a little walnut ketchup, chilli vinegar, and Cayenne pepper. Sauce a Vestragon. Tarragon sauce. A clear brown sauce flavoured with tarragon leaves. Served with poultry or quenelles. Sauce aux dcrevisses. Crayfish sauce. Bechamel sauce with crayfish tails, finished with a little crayfish butter. Sauce fermiere. Farmhouse sauce. A French sauce, consisting of Espagnole sauce with294 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY finely chopped ham, parsley, and capers. Usually served with game. Sauce fines herbes. Fine herbs sauce. A white fish sauce reduced with white wine, flavoured with grated nutmeg and white pepper, thickened with fresh butter and yolks of eggs. Chopped shallots are sometimes added. Sauce a la Flamande. Flemish sauce. Sauce for fish, made with melted butter sauce, thick- ened with yolks of eggs and prepared mustard. Sauce fleurette. Fleurette sauce. A white sauce, served with fish or vegetables, made from flour, butter and fleurette (which is the name applied to the first slamming of milk which is very sweet); the sauce is seasoned with salt and pepper. Sauce financiere. Financiere sauce. A brown sauce, well reduced with sherry, meat extract and mushroom ketchup. The garniture of truffles, small mushrooms, cock’s-combs, &c., is added when the sauce is ready for serving. Sauce fenouil. Fennel sauce. A white sauce with chopped fennel. Served with boiled fish. Sauce Genoise. Genoese sauce. A brown fish sauce, prepared with Espagnole sauce, reduced with red wine, mixed with chopped parsley, anchovy butter, and chopped mushrooms; flavoured with grated nutmeg and lemon juice. Sauce G&nevois. Genevan sauce. A brown fish sauce, flavoured with Madeira wine, garlic, and anchovy essence, thickened with fresh butter. Sauce gibier. Game sauce. A brown sauce, flavoured with certain kinds of game, reduced with red wine.SAUCES 295 Sauce a la Gloucester. Gloucester sauce. A cold sauce for fish or salads, prepared with mayonnaise sauce, cream, chilli vinegar, chopped tarra- gon, French mustard, and Cayenne pepper. Sauce Garibaldi. Garibaldi sauce. A brown sauce for meat or fish, with pounded garlic, capers, curry powder, mustard, anchovy paste and chilli vinegar. Sauce d la, g&nerale. General’s sauce. A brown savoury sauce made with melted butter, lemon juice, tarragon vinegar, Seville orange rinds finely chopped, and sherry flavoured with garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, clove, shallot, mace, salt and pepper. Sauce Hessoise. Hessian sauce. A kind of cold horseradish sauce, made with sour cream, grated horseradish and fresh bread-crumbs, seasoned with sugar and salt; served with roast beef or steaks. Sauce Hollandaise. Dutch sauce. A rich fish sauce, prepared with butter, yolks of eggs, tarragon vinegar, lemon juice and mignonette pepper ; a little Bechamel sauce is sometimes added. Sauce Hollandaise verte. Green Dutch sauce. Hollandaise sauce mixed with young parsley leaves, well boiled and pounded. Sauce a la Holstein. Holstein sauce. A white sauce for fish, made with Bechamel sauce, fish stock and white wine, well reduced ; thickened with egg-yolks and flavoured with nutmeg. Sauce Imre de sanglier. Boar’s head sauce. A cold sauce, prepared with bitter orange juice and finely chopped rind, sugar, red currant jelly, port wine, and prepared mustard, seasoned with black pepper. This sauce is useful for almost every kind of cold meat, and will keep for some time if bottled.•296 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Sauce homard. Lobster sauce. Sauce aux huitres. Oyster sauce. Sauce Indienne. Indian sauce. A brown sauce, flavoured with curry powder. Sauce Italienne. Italian sauce. A brown sauce, made withEspagnole sauce, to which tomato puree, a little white wine, chopped shallots which have been fried in oil, pepper, lemon juice, nutmeg, and chopped mushrooms are added. Sauce Joinville. Joinville sauce., A rich fish sauce made with flour, butter, fish broth, finished with a liaison of yolks of eggs, fresh butter, and lobster coral; flavoured with lemon juice and Cayenne pepper. Sauce au jambon. Ham sauce. A brown sauce with finely shred ham, chopped chives, shallots and parsley, flavoured with lemon juice. Suit- ably served with white meats, veal, pork, etc. Sauce Livournaise. Leghorn sauce. A cold sauce, prepared with pounded anchovy fillets, yolks of eggs, sweet oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and nutmeg. Sauce Lyonnaise. Lyons sauce. A kind of tomato sauce, with coarsely shred Spanish onions (previously fried in butter); flavoured with meat- glaze and lemon juice. Sauce Madere. Madeira sauce. A brown sauce, composed of Espagnole sauce, tomato sauce, reduced with Madeira wine. Sauce maitre-d'hotel. Hotel keeper’s sauce. A white sauce with kneaded butter, cream, and chopped parsley. Sauce Maltaise. Maltese sauce. Veloute sauce with chopped parsley, shallots and297 SAUCES mushrooms, diluted with sherry wine ; flavoured with lemon juice and finely-shred orange rind. Sauce matelote blanche. Matelote sauce, white. A white oyster sauce with mushroom juice, white wine, and button mushrooms, flavoured with savoury herbs. Sauce matelote brune. Matelote sauce, brown. A red-wine sauce with fried button onions and button mushrooms, flavoured with fine herbs and anchovy essence. Sauce d la menthe. Mint sauce. Consists of vinegar, chopped green mint leaves, and moist sugar. Sauce mayonnaise. Mayonnaise sauce. A cold sauce composed of yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, salad oil and vinegar; a little cold Bechamel sauce or cream is sometimes added. This sauce serves as dress- ing for salads, mayonnaise of fish, meat, poultry, &c. Sauce Malaga. Port wine sauce. A brown sauce prepared with meat glaze, port wine and lemon juice; flavoured with shallots and cayenne. Sauce Maxiviilien. Maximilian sauce. Tartare sauce with tomato pulp, and finely chopped tarragon leaves to flavour. Sauce Mirabeau. Mirabeau sauce. A white sauce with pounded garlic, chopped parsley, lemon juice, and a liaison of butter and meat extract. SaUce aux monies. Mussel sauce. Hollandaise sauce with cooked mussels. Sauce d la moelle cle bceuf. Beef marrow sauce. Espagnole sauce flavoured with fried shallot, mixed with blanched beef marrow cut in thin slices, chopped parsley, a little vinegar and red pepper.298 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Sauce moutarde. Mustard sauce. Melted butter or Bechamel sauce, mixed with pre- pared mustard. Sauce Napolitavne. Neapolitan sauce. A brown sauce with finely minced ham, claret, currant jelly and grated horseradish, flavoured with shallots, bay-leaf, thyme and cloves. Sauce Norvegienne. Norwegian sauce. A cold sauce prepared with hard-boiled eggs (which are passed through a sieve), yolks of fresh eggs, salt, pepper, prepared mustard, oil and vinegar, mixed with finely chopped savoury herbs. Sauce nonpareille. Nonpareil sauce. Hollandaise sauce worked up with crayfish or lobster butter ; mixed with chopped lobster meat, mushrooms, hard-boiled whites of eggs and truffles, all finely chopped. Sauce Normancle. Normandy sauce. A white fish sauce, thickened with a liaison of yolks of eggs, fresh butter; flavoured with lemon juice and essence of fish (reduced fish stock). Sauce aux olives. Olive sauce. A brown sauce with stoned or turned olives, flavoured with a little lemon juice. Served with ducks, fowls and beef. Sauce aux ceufs. Egg sauce.. A white sauce with hard-boiled eggs finely chopped. Sauce aux oignons. Onion sauce. A white milk sauce with finely shred onions, seasoned with nutmeg, salt and pepper. Served with boiled rabbit or mutton. Sauce a Voseillc. Sorrel sauce. A clear gravy sauce with finely chopped blanched sorrel leaves. Served with braised or boiled fowls, &c.299 SAUCES Sauce a Vorange. Orange sauce. Reduced gravy sauce, mixed with orange juice and finely cut orange rind. Served with roast or stewed ducks or game. Sauce Parisieune. Parisian sauce. A rich brown sauce with chopped shallots, parsley, lemon juice, and meat glaze, worked up with a little fresh butter. Served with entrecotes, steaks, or fillets of beef. Sauce persil. Parsley sauce. Melted butter or Bechamel sauce, with finely chopped parsley. Sauce Perigueux. Perigord sauce. A rich brown sauce with finely chopped truffles, Madeira wine, a little meat glaze and anchovy butter, flavoured with shallots. Sauce persillade. Persillade sauce. A kind of vinaigrette sauce prepared with mustard, sweet oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, lemon juice, and chopped savoury herbs, served cold with fish, vegetables or salad. Sauce piquante. Piquant sauce. A sharp brown sauce with chopped gherkins, capers, and shallots, seasoned with plenty of pepper and essence of anchovy. Sauce poivrade. Pepper sauce. A brown pepper sauce, flavoured with lean bacon or ham, celery, onions, thyme and bay-leaf, reduced with vinegar, anchovy essence and black pepper. Sauce poulette. Poulette sauce. A white sauce made from veal stock, flavoured with aromatic herbs, thickened with a liaison of egg yolks and fresh butter, finished with chopped parsley and lemon juice. 19300 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Sauce Polonaise. Polish sauce. Veloute sauce with sour cream, grated horseradish, chopped fennel and lemon juice. Served with cutlets or steaks. Sauce pauvrehomme. Poor man sauce. A plain brown sauce, containing some tomato ketchup and anchovy fish essence. Suitable as a fish sauce. Sauce Provencale. Provence sauce. Espagnole sauce with tomato pulp, finely chopped and fried onions, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley, flavoured with lemon juice, garlic, and a little Cayenne pepper. Sauce Prince de Galles. Prince of Wales sauce. A cold sauce prepared with finely chopped hard- boiled eggs and yolks of raw eggs, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, mixed with finely chopped savoury herbs and prepared French mustard. Served with broiled or fried fish, or cooked meat a la Tartare. Sauce au pain. Bread sauce. Consists of milk in which an onion has been boiled, stale white bread crumbs, and butter ; seasoned with cloves, salt, and pepper. Sauce aux pommes. Apple sauce. A kind of apple pulp, slightly sweetened, to be served with roast pork or geese. Sauce ravigote (chaude). Ravigote sauce (hot). A white sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, reduced with wine vinegar, finished with a liaison of fine herbs, butter and cream. Sauce ravigote (froide). Ravigote sauce (cold). Mayonnaise sauce, mixed with finely chopped parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon and shallots, tinted with a little spinach greening.SAUCES 301 Sauce raifort (chaucle). Horseradish sauce (hot). Bechamel sauce, mixed with grated horseradish and a little cream, seasoned with sugar and salt. Sauce raifort (froide). Horseradish sauce (cold). Sour cream, mixed with freshly grated horseradish and a little vinegar. Sauce reforme. Reform sauce. Poivrade sauce, diluted with port wine, red currant jelly and Worcester sauce. Sauce Beyence. Regent sauce. A brown thick gravy sauce, with white wine, flavoured with essence of parsley-root and finely minced onions. Sauce d la Beine-Marie. Queen Mary sauce. A brown sauce, made with strong meat gravy, port wine, chopped shallots, parsley, and pounded anchovies. Served with all kinds of roast meats or boiled fish. Sauce r&moulade. Remoulade sauce. A mayonnaise sauce, with chopped parsley, fennel, tarragon leaves, shallots, and prepared mustard. Sauce Bicardo. Ricardo sauce. A brown sauce, prepared from the carcase of game, with finely minced fried onions, toasted bread,, sherry, thickened with a little meat glaze. Served with dishes of game, &c. Sauce Bichelieu. Richelieu sauce. A brown game sauce, with Madeira wine and meat extract. Sauce Bobert. Robert sauce. A brown sauce, with finely chopped onions fried in butter, chilli vinegar, prepared mustard, and a little anchovy essence.302 PRACTICAL GASTRONOM Y Sauce Bomaine. Roman sauce. A brown sauce for fisli, prepared with Espagnole sauce, mixed with currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignoli), moistened with a little white wine vinegar ; all is pressed through a sieve before serving. Sauce Busse. Russian sauce. A white sauce, with grated horseradish, minced ham, finely chopped shallots, moistened with vinegar and white wine ; seasoned with sugar, pepper, salt and savoury herbs. Served hot. Sauce salmi. Salmi sauce. A brown game sauce, with white wine, meat glaze, flavoured with savoury herbs. Sauce Sicilienne. Sicilian sauce. Espagnole sauce, reduced with Marsala wine, seasoned with Cayenne pepper ; thin rings of onions fried in butter are mixed with the sauce just before serving. Served with beef steaks, roast fillets of beef, &c. Sauce Soubise. Soubise sauce. A white onion sauce, flavoured, besides onions, wfith nutmeg, pepper, and a little sugar and salt; the sauce is passed through a hair sieve, and finished wdth fresh cream and butter. Sauce a la Soyer. Soyer sauce. A white fish sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, shallots, and lemon juice, thickened with egg yolks and cream. Sauce stragottc. Stragotto sauce. A kind of rich game sauce, with tomato pulp and Madeira wine, flavoured wdth soup vegetables, celery and parsley roots, shallots, cloves and mace. Generally served with Italian dishes. Sauce Su&cloise. Swedish sauce. A white sauce, with grated horseradish and chilli vinegar ; served hot.SAUCES 30a Sauce supreme. Supreme sauce. A high class white sauce, made from chicken broth thickened with egg yolks, cream and fresh butter ; a garniture of sliced truffles and mushrooms is added, according to the requirement of the dish it is served with. Sauce Tartare. Tartar sauce. A stiff mayonnaise sauce, mixed with French mustard, finely chopped chives, spring onions, tarragon and chervil leaves, gherkins, capers and parsley. Sauce Texienne. Texas sauce. A kind of curry sauce, with a little saffron, chopped parsley, lemon juice, finished with fresh butter as a liaison. Served with meat or fish dishes. Sauce tomcite. Tomato sauce. Puree of tomatoes, with a little brown sauce and meat glaze; flavoured with aromatic herbs, shallots, and a little sugar. Sauce tortue. Turtle sauce. A brown sauce, made from turtle broth, with finely chopped shallots, a little anchovy paste, lemon juice, sherry, and finely chopped lemon rind ; seasoned with Cayenne pepper. Sauce universelle. Universal sauce. A highly spiced cold sauce, for cold meats, &c., pre- pared with mushroom ketchup, port wine, shallot vinegar, ground spice, mace, Cayenne pepper and essence of anchovies, Sauce veloutc. Veloute sauce. A richly seasoned white sauce, prepared with chicken or veal broth, flavoured with savoury herbs and soup vegetables. When finished it should be as smooth as velvet: hence the name velouM (velvet-like). Sauce Vinitienne. Venetian sauce. A white fish sauce, thickened with a liaison of yolksPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 304 of eggs and fresh butter, mixed with chopped parsley. A little lemon juice and a garniture of stewed button mushrooms are added before serving. Sauce vert-pre. Green herb sauce. A sauce composed of parboiled spinach, parsley, chives and tarragon (equal quantities of each), worked with fresh butter, passed through a sieve, and mixed with ravigote sauce. Served with fish, vegetables, or salads. Sauce Villeroi. Villeroi sauce. A white sauce, with finely chopped cooked ham and tongue, finished with a liaison of egg yolks and fresh butter. Sauce vinaigrette. Vinaigrette sauce. A cold sauce, prepared with salad oil, vinegar, essence of anchovy, chopped shallots, parsley, chervil and gherkins ; seasoned with pepper and salt. Served with calf’s head, seakale, asparagus, &c. Sauce verjus. Verjuice sauce. Espagnole sauce, with mashed unripe green grapes, cooked in broth, reduced with a little sherry, and finished with fresh butter. Served with roast ducks or pork. Sauce cVYork. Yorkshire sauce. Consists of Espagnole sauce, finely shred orange rind, red currant jelly, port wine, orange juice, and a little ground cinnamon. Served with boiled ham or pickled pork. EPICES CTTXjINAIE.es. SENN’S AROMATIC SEASONING Is the perfection of Tonic Condiments, and stands unsurpassed for improving the flavour of Soups, Entries, and Sauces. Can be obtained of high-class Grocers and Italian Warehousemen.305 ENTREMETS—SWEETS ENTREMETS EE EOIJCEUR—SWEET DISHES. Poudings. Puddings. Ponding cm chocolat. Ponding an pain noir. Ponding cl'abricots. Ponding aux amandes. Ponding de cabinet. Ponding de pommes. Pouding de pommes de ter re. Ponding an riz. Pouding de riz aux raisins. Pouding de macarons. Pouding de marrons. Pouding de gingcmbre. Pouding ct Venfer. Pouding de riz fro id. Pouding de riz aux abricots. Pouding de riz ciux ananas. Pouding de riz froicl aux peches. Pouding de nouilles. Pouding froicl cVananas. Pouding de tapioca. Pouding bavaroise aux nouilles. Pouding cle sagon. Poucling de vermicelle. Pouding froid d la prin- tanidre. Poucling roicle a VAnglaise. Poucling aux oranges. Pouding au citron. Poucling aux cerises. Pouding de pain bcitrrc d Vanglaise. Chocolate pudding. Brown bread pudding. Apricot pudding. Almond pudding. Cabinet pudding. Apple pudding. Potato pudding. Rice pudding. Rice and raisin pudding. Macaroon pudding. Chestnut pudding. Ginger pudding. Plum pudding, burning. Cold rice pudding. Rice pudding with apricots. Rice pudding with pine- apples. Cold rice pudding with peaches. Noodle pudding. Cold pineapple pudding. Tapioca pudding. Blancmanger and noodle pudding. Sago pudding. Vermicelli pudding. Cold strawberry cream pud- ding. Rolled jam pudding. Orange pudding. Lemon pudding. Cherry pudding. Bread and butter pudding.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 306 Ponding froid d la Pomare. Ponding d la vanilla. Ponding d Vananas. Ponding amandes d V orange. Ponding d la Bocheford. Ponding da groseilles varies. Ponding da groseilles noires. Ponding aux noix da coco. Ponding d la college. Ponding defignes. Ponding da reine-Claudes. Ponding an macaroni. Ponding da raisins. Ponding souffle. Ponding cle Noel. Ponding an lait. Cold apricot pudding. Vanilla pudding. Pineapple pudding. Almond pudding with orange flavour. Cold vanilla pudding. Green gooseberry pudding. Black currant, pudding. Cocoanut pudding. College pudding. Fig pudding. Greengage pudding. Macaroni pudding. Raisin pudding. Souffle pudding. Christmas pudding. Milk pudding. Ponding d la Victoria. Victoria pudding. Prepared with chopped marrow, flour, apples, eggs, milk, sugar, apricot jam, bread crumbs, and dried fruit. Ponding d VAllemande. German pudding. Made from small pieces of cake, sweet almonds, grated lemon rind, eggs, sugar, and Madeira wine. Ponding d la Cobourg. Coburg pudding. A kind of thick custard, with brandy flavouring, baked in cups. Ponding Prince Albert. Prince Albert pudding. Made from eggs, butter, flour, sugar and lemon rind ; mould lined with slices and stars of citron peel, angelica, chexries, &c., to garnish. Ponding Albemarle. Albemarle pudding. Made from almonds, eggs, sugar, and vanilla flavour- ing ; baked in tin moulds. Ponding co la bachelier. Bachelor’s pudding. Made from eggs, finely minced apples, currants,K N'T 11 EM ETS — S\V EETS 307 bread crumbs, lemon rind, grated nutmeg and sugar, steamed in moulds. Ponding d la chancclier. Chancellor’s pudding. A boiled custard pudding, with sponge cakes, ratafias and dried fruit; the mould is garnished with candied fruit. Served hot with wine sauce. Ponding d la Sicilienne. Sicilian pudding. A pudding made from rice, fruits, eggs, cream, and sugar. Ponding d la pasteur. Curate’s pudding. A mixture of eggcustard and mashed potato, flavoured with sugar and lemon; baked in cups in the oven. Ponding Delaware, Delaware pudding. A kind of suet pudding, filled with cored apples, currants, orange peel, etc.; steamed in cloth. Ponding d VImpcratrice. Empress pudding. A kind of custard, baked in cups, served hot with spiced sweet sauce. Ponding Genevoise. Geneva pudding. Stewed rice and apple pudding, baked in the oven. Ponding d la minute. Hasty pudding. Usually made with eggs, milk, flour, and sugar, well mixed, baked in a tin mould; a little jam or marmalade is put at the bottom of the mould. Ponding d VItalienne. Italian pudding. A kind of bread pudding, with cream, apples, and dried fruit; baked in a mould lined with puff paste. Pouding d la Nesselrode. Nesselrode pudding. A kind of cold chestnut pudding, flavoured -with maraschino liqueur; garnished with whipped cream and crystallised cherries. Pouding d VOrleans. Orleans pudding. A cold custard or blancmange, mixed with crumbledPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 308 biscuits and finely cut candied peel, set in fancy moulds. Ponding d la Prince, de Prince of Wales pudding. Gables. Made from yolks of eggs, sugar, lemon rind, almonds, flour and butter ; baked in fancy tin mould. Ponding d la Saxonne. Saxon pudding. A kind of brown-bread pudding, with ground almonds and crystallised fruit. Souffles et Omelettes. Souffles and Omelets. Souffle an cacao. Souffle an cafe. Souffle au chocolat. Souffle aux amandes. Souffle aux awelines pra- linees. Souffle dlafecule depommes de terre. Souffle d lajccule de riz. Souffle aux /raises encaisses. Souffle d la minute. Souffle d la polenta. Souffle d Vorange. Souffle au citron. Souffle au pain bis. Souffle au ponche. Souffle au riz. Souffle d la semoule. Souffle au tapioca. Souffld d Vorge. Souffle aux abricots. Omelette soufflU aux peches. Omelette souffle au kirsch. Omelette souffle aux confi- tures. Cocoa souffle. Coffee souffle. Chocolate souffle. Almond souffle. Souffle of burnt sugar fil- berts. Potato flour souffle. Rice flour souffle. Strawberry souffle in cases. Hasty souffle. Maize flour souffle. Orange souffle. Lemon souffle. Brown bread souffle. Punch souffle. Rice souffle. Semolina souffle. French tapioca souffle. Barley flour souffle. Apricot souffle. Souffle omelet flavoured with peaches. Souffle omelet flavoured with kirschwasser. Souffle omelet with fruit jam.BOD ENTREMETS—SWEETS Omelette souffle d la sur- Surprise souffle (omelets prise. with ice cream in centre). Omelette souffle d la vanillc. Souffle omelet with vanilla flavour. Omelette souffli d Veau Souffle omelet with de fleurs d’oranger. Omelette souffle auchocolat. Omelette souffle pis- flower water flavour. Souffle omelet with choco- late flavour. Souffle omelet flavoured with pistachio kernels. Jam omelet. Apricot omelet. Eum omelet. Pancakes. Sugar pancakes (baked in oven). Raspberry omelet. Vanilla pancakes. aux taches. Omelette au confiture. Omelette aux abricots. Omelette au rhum. Omelette d la bourgeoise. Omelette au four. Omelette aux framboiscs. Pannequets a la vanille. Pannequets aux /raises. Strawberry pancakes. Pannequets aux framboiscs. Raspberry pancakes. Pannequets aux confitures. Jam pancakes. Pannequets au cacao. Cocoa pancakes. » Pancakes made in the ordinary way with a little of Van Houten’s cocoa and crushed macaroons mixed with the batter ; rolled, dusted with sugar, and served with a sauce made of 1 oz. of Van Houten’s cocoa, 2 oz. sugar, 1 pint of boiling milk, and 1 egg well beaten ; stirred over the fire until it thickens. Pannequets a la Mancelle. Pancakes, Mancelle style. Thin, slightly browned pancakes, spread over with some sweetened chestnut puree mixed with some maraschino, rolled up, dusted with sugar, and glazed in a hot oven. Gateaux. Cakes. Gdteaumondaminaumoka. Cornflour cake with mocha icing. Gateau de noce [manage). Wedding (bride) cake.310 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Gateau aux raisins. Gateau au Madere. Gateau aux amandes. Gateau aux pommes. Gateau a la cannelle. Gateau au citron. Gateau aux noix de coco. Gateau aux dattcs. Gateau Genoise. Gateau ctu miel. Gateau au gingembre. Gateau d la vanille. Gateau a l'orange. Gateau de Noel. Biscuit de Savoie. Biscuit Genoise. Gateau feuillete. Meringues. Plum cake. Madeira cake. Almond cake. Apple cake. Cinnamon cake. Lemon cake. Cocoanut cake. Date cake. Genoa cake. Honey cake. Ginger cakp. Vanilla cake. Orange cake. Yule cake. Rich French cake with lemon flavouring. French flat cake. Puff paste cake. Meringues. Patisserie, &c. Baba au'rhum. Dames d'honneur. Dariole d la creme. Flans aux cibricots. Pastry, &c. Baba or Polish cake with rum syrup. Maids of honour. French cream tart. Apricot flans.* Flans d la creme auxpcches. Peach flans with cream. Flans d la creme au maras- Maraschino cream flans. quin. Flans d la creme- au citron. Lemon cream flans. Flans d la crdme d Vorange. Orange cream flans. Flans aux cerises. Cherry flans. Flans aux fruits Fruit flans. Flans a la macedoine de Mixed fruit flans. fruits. Flans aux fraises. Strawberry flans. Flans aux framboises. Raspberry flans. Flans aux poires. Pear flans. * Flans are small round open tarts.811 ENTPv E M ETS SWEETS Flans aux pitches. Flans aux pommes. Ga u fres Hollandaises. Gimblettes da pechcs. Sa car in a a rfum. Tartes (tourtes). Tartcs aux fruits. Tarte aux abricots. Tart a aux cerises. Tarte aux fraises. Tarte a ux fra in boises. Tarte aux groseilles noires. Tarte aux pommes. Tarte aux groseilles cartes. Meringues a la creme. Meringues glacis. Tarte aux groseilles et framboises. Tarte aux prunes. Tourte d Vorange. Tourte au rhum. Tourte aux fruits. Tourte aux marrons. Tourte au punch. Tourte de biscuits. Tourte de noix. Tourte au chocolat. Tourte Fortugaise. Tourte pain bis. Tourte a la sableuse. Tourte au citron. Tourte d la rhubarbe. Tartelettes de fruits. Tartelettes de raisins. Tartelettes de jiavots. Tartelettes de fromage. Tartelettes de framboises. Peach flans. Apple flans. Dutch cream wafers. Peach cakes. A light yeast cake with rum syrup. Tarts ancl pies. Fruit tarts or fruit pies. Apricot tart. Cherry tart. Strawberry tart. Raspberry tart. Black currant tart. Apple tart. Gooseberry tart. Meringues with whipped cream. Meringues with ice cream. Currant and raspberry tart. Plum tart. Orange tart. Rum tart. Open fruit tart. Chestnut tart. Punch tart Biscuit tart. Nut tart. Chocolate tart. Portuguese tart. Brown bread tart. Sponge cake tart. Lemon tart. Rhubarb tart. Fruit tartlets. Currant tartlets. Poppy tartlets. Cheesecakes. Raspberry tartlets.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 31‘2 Tartelettes de fraises. Strawberry tartlets. Tartelettes de bergamottes. Pear tartlets. Tartelettes d la crime Tartlets with whipped cream. fouettee. Tartelettes d la purie de Tartlets with apple puree. pommes. Tartelettes d la puree de Tartlets with peach puree. peclies. Tartelettes de cannelle. Cinnamon tartlets. Tartelettes de yroseilles Gooseberry tartlets-. rouges. Tartelettes d Vananas. Pineapple tartlets. Charlottes. Charlottes. Charlotte d la Plombiere. Plombiere charlotte. Charlotte mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with vanilla cream ice, mixed with ground almonds, whipped cream, crystallised fruits cut up finely, and a little kirsch ; set to freeze, and served on folded napkins. Charlotte glacee d la Iced charlotte, Medicis style. Medicis. Charlotte mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with chocolate (Van Houten’s cocoa) ice-cream, set to freeze, and served on folded napkin ; the top being garnished with groups of preserved chestnuts and fruits. Charlotte glacee d la Iced charlotte, Florentine Florentine. style. Charlotte mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with orange water-ice mingled with whipped cream; set to freeze, and served on folded napkin. Charlotte d la Basse. Russian charlotte. Vanilla cream blancmange lined with finger biscuits. Charlotte de pommes. Apple charlotte. Charlotte de poires. Pear charlotte. Charlotte aux marrons. Chestnut charlotte. Charlotte d la Chantilly. Vanilla cream charlotte.813 ENTREMETS—SWEETS Charlotte <le melons. Melon charlotte. Charlotte aux macarons. Macaroon charlotte. Charlotte cle fruit d Vim- Fruit charlotte with cliam- piriale. pagne sauce. Beignets, &c. lie ig nets d’ an a nas. Beignets d’abricots. Beig ne ts Be rlinois. Beignets de cerises. Beignets aux nouilles. Beignets de frangipane. Beignets aux f raises. Beignets aux marrons. Beignets d Vorange. Beignets de pommes. Beignets de pcches. Beignets aux prunes. Beignets de coing.s. Beignets de poires. Beignets de semoule. Beignets souffles d la vanille. Beignets de reine-Claudes. Beignets de riz. Beignets Viennois. Beignets d la Portugaise. Fritters, &c. Pineapple fritters. Apricot fritters. Berlin fritters. Cherry fritters. Noodle fritters. Macaroon fritters. Strawberry fritters. Chestnut fritters. Orange fritters. Apple fritters. Peach fritters. Plum or prune fritters. Quince fritters. Pear fritters. Semolina fritters. Vanilla souffle fritters. Greengage fritters. Rice fritters. Vienna fritters. Portuguese fritters. A kind of rice croquets, flavoured with cinnamon filled in centre with orange marmalade. Beignets d la crime. Beignets de noix de coco. Cannelons aux f raises. Gannelons aux abricots. Cannelons d la crime de Pithiviers. Croquettes de riz d la vanille. Croquettes de riz aux fraises. Custard fritters. Cocoanut fritters. Strawberry cannelons. Apricot cannelons. Almond cream cannelons. Vanilla rice croquets. Rice croquets with straw- berry jam.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 314 Croquettes cle semoule aux Semolina croquets with /'raises. strawberry jam. Croquettes de viz aux Rice croquets with peach peches. jam. CroquettesderizdVananas. Rice croquets with pine- apple sauce. Croquettes de rer micelle. Vermicelli croquets. Balles cleneige. Snowball fritters. Pain frits au vin rouge. Fried milk roll-slices with claret sauce. Fruits au riz, croutes, &c. Fruits with rice, crusts, &c. Abricots au riz. Abricots au riz meringue. Peches au riz. Pommes au riz. Heine-Claudes au riz. Poires au riz. Biz d la Condi. Biz au chocolat. Biz au lait. Apricots with rice. Apricots with rice merin- gues. Peaches with rice. Apples with rice. Greengages with rice. Pears with rice. Rice with pears. Rice with chocolate cream. Rice cooked in milk and sugar. Pommes au riz meringuee. Apples with rice meringued. Abricots d la Colbert. Apricots, Colbert style. Preserved firm apricots (halves), drained, filled with rice cooked in milk, sweetened and flavoured with vanilla, coated with reduced apricot marmalade, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in pulverised macaroons, fried slightly brown in clarified butter. Dished up on rounds of fried bread made to adhere to the dish with a little mar- malade, and sauced over with a thick apricot sauce. Pommes a la Conde. Apples, Conde style. Pared apples, cored, trimmed, ranged in a buttered sautoir, sprinkled with powdered sugar, lemon juice, and oiled butter ; cooked in the oven. Dished up on a layer of rice ornamented with fancy cut pieces of angelica, crystallised cherries, raisins and almonds, and served with apple syrup.ENTREMETS—SWEETS 315 Pommes d la Duchesse. Apples, Pucliesse style. Peeled apples, scooped out in small rounds, cooked in syrup, dressed on a layer of apple marmalade orna- mented with small sticks of angelica in each round of apples. Served with a well-reduced apple syrup. Pommes roties a la Baked apples, Polish style. Polonaise. Pared and cored apples, cut crosswise in thin slices, ranged on a layer of marmalade on a baking-dish, masked with well-reduced syrup, sprinkled with crushed macaroons, ground cinnamon and sugar. Baked in a moderate oven and served in the baking-dish. Pommes d la Portugaisc. Apples, Portuguese style. Pared and cored apples, rubbed over with lemon juice, stewed in syrup,with maraschino liqueur; holes in apples tilled with red currant jelly, with a crystallised cherry over top. Served with the syrup. Pains cVabricots au marasquin. Preserved apricots mixed with a little maraschino liqueur, lemon juice, powdered sugar and some gelatine dissolved in water; passed through a fine sieve, set on ice until it thickens, poured into moulds, and served the same as jellies. Croutes aux fruits. Compote of fruit dressed on fried cake or bread crusts or croutons, garnished with dried fruit, angelica, cherries, almonds, raisins, etc., and sauced over with a syrup. Crodtes aux abricots. Croutes aux pommes. Crodtes d Vorange. Crodtes aux cerises. Crodtes aux pcches. Crodtes aux framboises. Crodtes aux /raises Apricot croutes. Apple croutes. Orange croirtes. Cherry croutes. Peach croutes. Raspberry croutes. Strawberry croutes. Crodtes a la Normcmde. Pared, cored, and quartered apples, stewed in syrup, flavoured with butter, lemon juice and sherry, dressed 20PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 31G on fried bread croutes (crusts), coated with dissolved peach jam. Served with hot syrup. Oroides au Madire. Various kinds of compote of fruit, dressed on fried bread or cake crusts, and served with hot fruit syrup flavoured with Madeira wine. Blancmangers et Cremes. Bavaroise aux amandes. Bavaroise au cafe. Bavaroise d la Praslin. Bavaroise au citron. Bavaroise a Vorange. Bavaroise aux noix de coco. Bavaroise aux f raises. Bavaroise aux abricots. Bavaroise aux fraimboises. Bavaroise au chocolat. Bavaroise au melon. Bavaroise au cacao. Blancmanger d la vanille. Blancmanger d la creme. Blancmanger aux pistaches. Blancmanger aux anilines. Creme au cafe. Creme au chocolat. Crime d la vanille. Crime au cacao. Creme francaise au the. Crime franqaise au cafe. Crime aux noix de peches. Crime au caramel. Compotes de Fruits. Compote d'abricots. Compote de pommes. Blancmanges and Creams. Almond blancmange. Coffee cream or blancmange. Burnt almond cream or blancmange. Lemon blancmange. Orange cream or blanc- mange. Cocoanut blancmange. Strawberry blancmange. Apricot blancmange. Raspberry blancmange.. Chocolate blancmange. Melon blancmange. Cocoa blancmange. Vanilla blancmange. Cream blancmange. Pistachio kernel blancmange. Filbert blancmange. Coffee cream. Chocolate cream. Vanilla cream. Cocoa cream. French tea cream. French coffee cream. French peach kernel cream. Caramel cream. Stewed Fruits. Stewed apricots. Stewed apples.ENTREMETS—SWEETS 317 Compote de ronces. Compote de mirtillcs. Compote d'airelles. Compote de cerises. Compote de groseillcs blanches. Compote de g rosei lles rouges. Compote de marroiis. Compote de dattes. Compote de reine-Claudes. Compote de groseillcs vertes. Compote d'epines-vincttes. Compote de figues. Compote de vcrjus. Compote de grattes-culs. Compote de melons. Compote de mirabelles. Compote de mures. Compote de poires. Compote de peches. Compote d’oranges. Compote de prunes. Compote de pruneaux. Compote de coings. Compote de framboises. Compote de rhubarbe. Compote de fraises. Compote d'ananas. Stewed brambleberries. Stewed bilberries. Stewed cranberries. Stewed cherries. Stewed white currants. Stewed red currants. Stewed chestnuts. Stewed dates. Stewed greengages. Stewed gooseberries. Stewed barberries. Stewed figs. Stewed grapes. Stewed hips. Stewed melon. Stewed mirabelles. Stewed mulberries. Stewed pears. Stewed peaches. Stewed oranges. Stewed prunes. Stewed plums. Stewed quinces. Stewed raspberries. Stewed rhubarb. Stewed strawberries. Stewed pineapples. Gelees, &c. Gelee aux amandes. Gelee de pommes. Gelee de bigarade. Gelee aux abricots. Gelee d’epines-vinettes. Gelee de groseillcs noires. Gelee de f raises. •* “ Isiuglassine ” is an exo it requires no soaking, and rna Jellies, &c.* Almond jelly. Apple jelly. Bitter orange jelly. Apricot jelly. Barberry jelly. Black currant jelly. Strawberry jelly. lent, substitute for gelatine ; it es brilliant jellies.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 318 GeUe de menthe. Galea de pied de veau. GeUe au mamsquin. Gelee au cafe. Gelee au the vert. Gelee au curacao. Gelee de groseilles rouges. Gelee aux airelles. Gelee de groseilles vertes. Gelee cV ananas. Gelee d’anisette. Gelee de citron. .Gelee de raisins. Gelee d'oranges. Gelee de mandarines. Gelee au Madere. Gelee de brugnon. Gelee de framboises. Gelee au vin du Rhin. Mint jelly. Calf’s foot jelly. Maraschino jelly. Coffee jelly. Green tea jelly. Cura9ao jelly. Bed currant jelly. Cranberry jelly. Gooseberry jelly. Pineapple jelly. Aniseed jelly. Lemon jelly. Grape jelly. Orange jelly. Mandarin jelly. Madeira wine jelly. Nectarine jelly. Raspberry jelly. Rhine wine jelly. Gelee au vin de Champagne.Champagne jelly. Gelee de nefle. Gelee a la vanille. Gelee au rhum. Gelee au kirsch. Gelee au vin d’ Oporto. GeUe aux poires. Gelee d la Russe. Medlar jelly. Vanilla jelly. Rum jelly. Kirsch liqueur jelly. Port wine jelly. Pear jelly. Russian jelly. Sweet jelly beaten to a creamy froth, and set to cool in a mould. Gelee panachee. Mixed jelly. Two or three different kinds of jelly appropriately flavoured, set on one another in the same mould. Gelee cl la macedoine de Jelly with mixed fruits. fruits. Gelee fouettee au jus de Whipped fruit juice jelly. fruits. Su&doise cle pommes d la Jelly with apples. gelde. GeUe de coing. Quince jelly.319 ENTREMETS SWEETS Cremes fouettees pour Whipped Creams for Meringues, Cornets, &c. Meringues, Cornets, &c. Creme fouettee a la vanille. Whipped cream with vanilla flavour. Creme fouettee a la cannellc. Whipped cream with cinra mon flavour. Creme fouettee an cafe. Whipped cream with coffee flavour. Creme fouettee aux f raises. Whipped cream with straw- berry flavour. Creme fouettee a Vananas. Whipped cream with pine- apple flavour. Creme fouetUe au chocolat. Whipped cream with choco- late flavour. Creme fouettee aux amandes. Whipped cream with ground almonds. Creme fouettee aux noisettes. Whipped cream with ground hazelnuts or filberts. Glaces (Cremes). Ices (Creams). Glace a la creme cVamande. Almond ice cream. Glace ci la creme de vanille. Vanilla ice cream. Glace d la crime cl'abricot. Apricot ice cream. Glace de crime d la ccm- Cinnamon ice cream. nelle. Glace d la crime cVananas. Pineapple ice cream. Glace au chocolat. . Chocolate ice. Glace au moka. Coffee ice cream. Glace de crime cm cacao. Cocoa ice cream. Glace d la crime de peches. Peach ice cream. Glace de crime au maras- Maraschino ice cream. quin. Glace a la crime cle noyeau. Noyeau icecream. Glace cle crime aux fleurs Ice cream flavoured with cl'orancjer. orange flowers. Glace cle Grime au thi. Tea ice cream. Glace d la crime cle from- Raspberry ice cream. boises.PRA( ITICAL GASTRONOMY 820 Glace a la creme de viaca- Macaroon ice cream. rons. Glace d la creme de Malaga. Malaga wine ice cream. Glace d la Nesselrode. Nesselrode ice. Chestnut puree ice cream. Glace d la Prince Pucklcr. Prince Piickler ice. A kind of chocolate ice cream. Glace de creme a Veau de Cherry brandy ice cream. cerises. Glace d la Chateaubriand. Chateaubriand ice. Vanilla ice cream, mixed with crystallised fruits cut in fine strips, and whipped cream. Glace Plombidre. Plombiere ice. Vanilla ice cream, mixed with finely ground almonds and whipped cream. Ponding glace. Ice pudding. Vanilla ice cream, mixed with coarsely cut sponge cakes and layers of crystallised fruits ; flavoured with certain kinds of liqueurs. Punch a la Ptomaine. Eoman punch. Orange and lemon water-ice, when half frozen, mixed with a thick syrup, whipped whites of eggs and rum. Served in glasses. Glace cm pain noir. Brown bread ice cream. Glace Napolitaine. Neapolitan ice. Mixed ice, two or three distinct sections. Served in oblong slices or fancy shapes. Souffles glaces dla vanille. Vanilla ice cream souffles, in cases. Souffles glaces cm pain noir. Brown bread ice cream souffles, frozen and served in paper cases. Souffles glaces aux fraises. Strawberry ice cream souffles, frozen and served in paper cases.321 ENTREMETS SWEETS Glace d la japonaise. Japanese ice. Vanilla ice cream, mixed with brown bread crumbs, almonds, and maraschino liqueur. Glace d la creme <le noix Cocoanut ice creams. de coco. Demi-glace d la creme de Gooseberry fool. groseilles vertes. Bombe glade d Vorientale. Oriental ice-bomb (with oranges). Bombe glacde aux abricots. Apricot ice-bomb. Biscuits glads d la vanille. Vanilla ice-pudding, mixed, and lined with biscuits. Charlottes glades. Ice cream puddings, lined with finger biscuits. Glaces de Fruits. Glace aux pommes. Glace d Vorange. Glace aux poires. Glace aux peches. Glace aa citron. Glace aux abricots. Glace a Vananas. Glace aux cerises. Glace aux fraises. Glace aux framboises. Glace aux mirtilles. Glace aux groseilles. Glace d la tutti-frutti. Glace de gingembre. Glace d’epines-vinettes. Glace de melon. Glace mille fruits. Glace en verres d l'orange. Sorbet aux fraises. Pouch d la glace. Fruit Water-ices. Apple water-ice. Orange water-ice. Pear water-ice. Peach water-ice. Lemon water-ice. Apricot water-ice. Pineapple water-ice. Cherry water-ice. Strawberry water-ice. Raspberry water-ice. Bilberry water-ice. Red currant ice. Mixed fruit water-ice. Ginger water-ice. Barberry water-ice. Melon water-ice. Mixed fruit water or cream ice. Orange water-ice, in glasses. Strawberry ice, in glasses. Iced punch.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 322 Sorbet an vincle Bourgogne Glace panachec. Mousse * cm cafe. Mousse aux f raises. Mousse au mar as quin. Mousse aux framboises. Mousse aux peches. Mousse au citron. Mousse a Vorange. Burgundy wine ice, in glasses. Mixed ice. Coffee mousse. Strawberry mousse. Maraschino mousse. Raspberry mousse. Peach mousse. Lemon mousse. Orange mousse. ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, &c. SAVOURY DISHES, &c. N.B.—A selection of valuable and thoroughly workable recipes will shortly be published, by the author of this work, for elegant and appetising Hors-d’oeuvres, Sandwiches, Salads, Oriental and Savoury dishes. Savoury Dishes of Pish. Beignets cle poisson. Beignets cle poisson fumes. Kedger-ue cle poisson. Saumon cm gratin. Homard au gratin. Coquille cle homarcl. Saumon fume a la D table. Crabe cmx ceufs a laDiable. Crc.be sur canapes d V Inclienne. Bagotit dc crabe d la tomate. Fish fritters. Smoked fish fritters. Savoury kedgeree. Salmon, gratin style. Lobster, gratin style. Scalloped lobster. Smoked salmon devilled. Devilled dressed crab. C’anapees of curried crab. Savoury of crab with tomato sauce. * Mousse is a light ice cream, prepared from syrups, whipped ■whites of eggs, and flavouring according to names. It is served in glasses, or set to freeze in moulds ; in the latter case the moulds are lined with white paper.323 SAVOUREUX SAVOURIES Savoureux de merluchc Savoury of smoked haddock. fumee. Sardines aux ceufs pochis. Grilled sardines with poached eggs. Canapds de sardines. Sardine canapees. Sardines d la Provenqale. Sardines on toast with egg sauce. Sardines d la Diable. Devilled sardines. Croustade de sardines an Sardine croustades with fromage. cheese. Crodtons d’anchois an Anchovy fingers with cheese. fromage. Anchois frits. Fried anchovies. Crodtons d’anchois d English anchovy toast. I'Anglaise. \ Crodtons d’anchois d Via- Curried anchovies on toast. dienne. Bisqwitsaubeurred’anchois. Anchovy paste biscuits. Crodtons d'anchois aux Savoury anchovy paste on fines herbes. toast. Huitres au beware. Broiled oysters in butter. Lcs Imitres d cheval. Oysters on horseback. Bonnes-bouches aux Imitres. Oyster tit-bits. Huitres sur pain grille. Oysters on toast. Huitres frites d la Diable. Fried oysters devilled. Huitres a l'Americaine. Grilled oysters, American style. Huitres aux fines herbes. Grilled oysters with savoury herbs. Huitres sautdes a l'Amiri- Broiled oysters, American cainc. style. llagout d'huitres d la Devilled oyster stew. Diable. Croquettes d’huitres a At Oyster croquets, Wellington Wellington. style. Bouchies de bucardes a Cockle patties, American l’Am&ricaine. style. Hareng fume a I'Ecossaise. Kippered herring, Scotch style.324 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Filets do harengs fumes au fromage. Beignets de filets de harcng d VAllcmande. Laitance de cabillaud fume sur croutons. Caviar de Bussie en crepes. Caviar sur canap&s d la Diable. Anchois farcis. Allumettes d'anchois. Canap&s de thon marines. Crevettes d la Diable. Ecrevisses d la Diable. Os et laitance de maquereau d la Diable. Souffles d la Yarmouth. Bailies au Parmesan d la Yarmouth. Bailies au Parmesan d I’anchois. Filleted kippered herrings with cheese. Fritters of kippered herring fillets. Smoked cod’s roe on toast. Russian caviare pancakes. Small caviare fingers devilled. Stuffed anchovies. Anchovy matches. Tunny-fish canapees. Devilled shrimps. Devilled crayfish. Devilled mackerel’s roe and bones. Cheese and bloater paste souffles. Cheese straws with strips of bloater fillets. Cheese straws with anchovy fillets. Toasted bread, spread with anchovy paste, cut into small strips. ✓ Savoury Meat Dishes. Petits pdtes de viande aux fines herbes. Moelle cle bceuf aux fines herbes. Petites croustades de gibier d la Cordon rouge. Petits souffl&s de gibier. Beignets de gibier d la Dia- ble. Bognons de mouton d Vln- dienne. Mets de viande d la Diable. Small savoury meat patties. Marrow savoury. Savoury game crusts, Cordon rouge style. Small game souffles. Devilled game fritters. Grilled sheep’s kidneys cur- ried. Devilled grilled meats and bones.SAVOUREUX SAVOURIES 325 Crous tades de rognons d la Reforme. Foie de volaille d la Diable. Langue de veau fttmee d la Diable. Crodtons dc langue'd la Diable. Beignets dejambon. Crodtons de jambon d la Diable. Bouchces piquantes. Croustades of kidneys, Re- form style. Devilled chicken liver. Devilled smoked calf’s tongue. Devilled ox tongue on toast. Ham fritters. Devilled ham on toast. Savoury puff-paste patties. Savoury Dishes of Vegetables. Tomates an frontage. Tomatcs sur pain grille. Tomates au gratin. Beignets de tomates. Tomates farcies d la Diable. Pommes de terre farcies. Coquilles depommes de terre. Crepes de pommes de terre au frontage. Pommes de terre farcies aux fines herbes. Pommes de terre au kari. Beignets depommes de terre. Rissoles de pommes de terre. Pommes au kari. Champignons en caisses d la Diable. Champignons sur crodtons. Champignons aux fines herbes. Beignets d’aubergines d la Diable. Aubergines au gratin. Concombre d la maitrc d'hdtel. Tomatoes with cheese. Tomatoes on toast. Baked tomatoes, gratin style. Tomato fritters. Stuffed tomatoes devilled. Stuffed potatoes. Potato scallops. Potatopancakeswitli cheese. Savoury potatoes stuffed. Curried potatoes. Potato fritters. Potato rissoles. Curried apples. Devilled mushrooms in cases. Mushrooms on toast. Savoury mushrooms. Devilled egg-plant fritters. Aubergines, baked, gratin style. Cucumber, hotel - keeper’s way.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 326 Concombre farcin au fro- mage. Feves clc inarms aux fines herbes. Lentilles en fricassee a la Diable. Choux-fleur au Parmesan. Topinambov/rs d la Lyon- naise. Foncls d'artichauts d la Borclelaise. Fonds d'artichauts farcis d ho Diable. Haricots verts aux fines herbes. Petit pois au jambonsautees Petit pois d la laitue a la franqaise. Pointes d'asperges ciux fines herbes. Cideri braise a I'Espagnole. Celeri a la inaitre d'hotel. Salsifis aux fines herbes. Salsifis frits d ■ la Diable. Beignets de betterave. Beignets cle ccordons a la Diable. Croiltes aux truffes. Truffes scoutees d la metro- pole. Croustcodes de truffes d Vltalienne. Truffes farcies d la Cordon rouge. Pommes et pommes de terre en kari. Olives sur croiltons d la Diable. Savoury cucumbers stuffed with cheese. Savoury broad beans. Devilled lentil fricassee, savoury. Baked cauliflower with cheese. Jerusalem artichokes with onions. Artichoke bottoms, Borde- laise style. Stuffed artichoke bottoms devilled. Savoury French beans. .Savoury peas with ham. Savoury peas with lettuce. Asparagus points with savoury herbs. Braised celery, Spanish style. Stewed celery, hotel-keeper’s way. Savoury salsify. Salsify fritters devilled. Beetroot fritters. Cardoon fritters devilled. Truffles on toast. Stewed truffles with fried ham croutons. Truffles in crusts, Italian style. Stuffed truffles, Cordon rouge style. Curried apples and potatoes. Devilled olives on toast.SAVOUREUX—SAVOURIES 327 Pomp ion d la Parmesan. Fried pumpkin with Par- mesan cheese. Chiocchi d la Lombardie. Small potato dumplings with grated cheese. Names of Omelets. Omelets are called by the names of certain ingre- dients added to flavour them. They can be prepared in an endless variety by the addition of minced fish, meat or game to the egg mixture. Sauces are in some cases served with omelets. Omelettes et Entremets d’CEufs. Omelette au naturel. Omelette aux fines herbes. Omelette aux fines herbes d la Parisienne. Omelette de volatile. Omelette d la chasseur. Parisian Omelette Omelette Omelette Omelette Omelette Omelette Omelette Omelette Omelette Omelette Omelette Omelette au chevreuil. au caviar, aux truffes. aux moules. aux liuitres. aux champignons, au saucisson. au jambon. au lard, aux crevettcs. aux anchois. auxharengs fumes Omelette d la Yarmouth. Omelette aux lentilles. Omelette de homard. Omelets and Savoury Dishes of Eggs. Plain omelet. Savoury omelet. Savoury omelet, style Chicken omelet. Savoury omelet with minced venison. Venison omelet. Caviare omelet. Truffle omelet. Mussel omelet. Oyster omelet. Mushroom omelet. Sausage omelet. Ham omelet. Bacon omelet. Shrimp omelet. Anchovy omelet. Omelet kippers. Omelet bloaters. Lentil omelet. Lobster omelet. with fillets of with fillets of328 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Omelette aux ecrevisscs. Omelette aux olives. Omelette a la jardiniere. Omelette aux tomates. Omelette an frontage. Omelette aux pommes de terre. Omelette aux bucardes. Omelette aux clames. Omelette au saumon fume. Omelette aux rognons. Omelette d la langue de bceuf. Omelette aux pointes d'as- perges. Omelette aux oignons. Omelette d VIndienne. Flavoured with chopped Prawn omelet. Olive omelet. Omelet with mixed vege- tables. Tomato omelet. Cheese omelet. Potato omelet. Cockle omelet. Clam omelet. Omelet with smoked salmon. Omelet with stewed kidney. Tongue omelet. Omelet with asparagus points. Omelet with onions. Savoury omelet, Indian style, mint, onions, and chives. Des (Eufs. CEufs crus. CEufs frads. CEufs durs. CEufs d la cogue. CEufs poches. CEufs frits. CEufs au miroir. CEufs sur plat. CEufs mollets. CEufs perles. CEufs au gratin CEufs enveloppes. CEufs brouilUs. CEufs frits sur plat. CEufs poches au jus. CEufs frits d la, tomate. CEufs d VAfricaine. Eggs. Raw eggs. Fresh eggs. Hard-boiled eggs. Soft-boiled eggs. Poached eggs. Fried eggs. Eggs fried in butter (open). Eggs baked on the plate. Soft-boiled eggs. Perled eggs. Baked eggs. Eggs in wrappers. Scrambled eggs. Eggs fried on the dish. Poached eggs in gravy. Fried eggs with tomato sauce. Poached eggs with fried ham.SAVOU REUX — SA.YOURIKS 329 (Eufs pocliex A la puree de Poached eggs with mashed navets. turnips. (Eufs pockes aux epinards. Poached eggs with spinach. (Eufs pockes A la purie de Poached eggs with lentil lentillcs. puree. (Eufs pockes A la puree de Poached eggs with puree of marrons. ' chestnuts. (Eufs pockes A la puree Poached eggs with sorrel d’oseilles. puree. (Eufs A la Midkat Pasha. Fried eggs with fried onions. (Eufs A Vceil de bceuf. Eggs baked in butter. (Eufs brouilles, Lyonnaise. Scrambled eggs with fried onions. (Eufs brouilles au jambon. Scrambled eggs with ham. (Eufs brouilles aux pointes Scrambled eggs with aspa- d’asperges. ragus points. (Eufs brouilles aux anckois. Scrambled eggs with an- chovy fillets. (Eufs A la tripe. Hard-boiled or baked eggs, cut in strips and fried. (Eufs A la Soubise. Poached eggs with onion puree. JBoules des ceufs (quenelles). Eggs balls (used for soups and garnishing). Salade aux ceufs. Egg salad. (Eufs sur pain grille. Poached eggs on toast. Eufs A la bonne femme. Eggs, bonne femme style. Hard-boiled eggs cut into halves, stuffed with minced chicken, ham and beetroot. (Eufs A la Carmelite. Eggs, Carmelite nun’s way. Halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with chopped onions, parsley, sorrel and yolks of eggs, baked in the oven. (Eufs au beurrc noir. Poached eggs with brown butter. (Eufs A la maitre d'hotel. Eggs, hotel-keeper’s fashion. Hard-boiled eggs with fried Spanish onions and parsley sauce.330 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY CEufs d la Gruyere. Eggs, Gruyere fashion. Scrambled eggs with grated Gruyere (Swiss) cheese. CEufs d la creme. Cream eggs. Whipped whites of eggs steamed in moulds. CEufs d la Bobert. Stewed eggs with Robert sauce. CEufs cn marinade. Poached eggs with egg-yolk sauce. CEufs d VIndienne. Curried eggs with rice. CEufs d la Diable. Devilled eggs. Halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with anchovy paste, seasoned with Cayenne pepper, baked in the oven. Fricassee cl'ceufs. Fricasseed eggs. CEufs en caisses. Eggs baked in paper cases. Bagoilt d’ceufs d la fran- Egg stew, French style. qaise. Stewed hard-boiled eggs, with truffles, morels, and red wine sauce. CEufs farcis. Stuffed eggs. CEufs farcis aux champi- Eggs stuffed with mush- gnons. rooms. CEufs d la gourmet. Eggs, gourmet style. Stuffed eggs with crayfish tails and smoked salmon. CEufs d la Norfolk. Eggs, Norfolk fashion. Halves of hard-boiled eggs, egged, crumbed, fried in butter, and served with piquante sauce. CEufs d la Granville. Eggs, Granville style. Coarsely shred hard-boiled eggs, stewed in an onion • sauce, flavoured with lemon rind and mace. CEufs d la salamandre. Eggs, salamander style. Discs of hard-boiled whites of egg, done in a rich parsley and egg sauce, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes, and browned with a hot salamander. CEufs farcis aux dpincirds. Eggs stuffed with spinach.331 RAVOUREUX—SAVOURIER Eufs A la matelote. Eggs, seaman’s way. Eggs poached in meat broth, dressed on rounds of toast, sauced over with a rich brown fine herb and onion sauce ; garnished with grilled fillets of anchovies. Cotelettes aux ceufs. Egg cutlets. Minced liard-hoiled eggs, prepared with grated cheese and herb seasoning, moistened with yolks of fresh eggs, shaped like cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried. Pyramicle d'ceufs d la Re- Egg pyramid, Reform style. forme. Stuffed halves of hard-boiled eggs, dished up in a pyramidal form, sprinkled with finely chopped ham and truffles, sauced, and baked in a quick oven. (Eufs poches a la Portu- Eggs poached, Portuguese gaise. style. Poached eggs dressed on rounds of toasted bread, laid over with stuffed halves of tomatoes. CEufs poches auja/mbon. Poached eggs with ham. Eufs d la mode de Caen. Eggs, Caen fashion. Slices of hard-boiled eggs, done in a rich white cream sauce, with coarsely shred boiled Spanish onions. CE ufs fare is an jambon et Eggs stuffed with ham and nouille.s. noodles (a kind of maca- roni paste). Eufs farcis d la creme. Eggs stuffed with thick savoury cream. Eufs sur croutons dl'ecar- Eggs and tongue croutons. late. Poached eggs dressed on rounds of fried bread, spread with tongue paste. (Eufs d la Romaine. Eggs, Roman style. A kind of small egg souffles, seasoned with grated cheese and cayenne, baked in patty-pans. (Eufs d VItalienne. Eggs, Italian style. Halves of hard-boiled eggs, stuffed with anchovy 21332 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY paste and grated cheese, and served with a rich be- chamel sauce. Eufs farcis au persil. Eggs filled with parsley- stuffing. Eufs frits d la Suisse. Eggs fried, Swiss fashion. Eggs, fried whole, sprinkled with grated Gruyere cheese, and seasoned before frying. CEufs d I’Ecossaise. Eggs, Scotch style. Whole hard-boiled eggs filled Avith forcemeat stuffing, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. Served with a tomato sauce in which are incorporated the hard- boiled yolks finely chopped. Eufs brou/Llles au beurre. Buttered eggs. A kind of scrambled eggs. Eufs brouilUs d VIndienne. Buttered eggs, Indian style. Scrambled eggs, seasoned with curry powder and Cayenne pepper. Eufs d la Garfield. Eggs, Garfield style. Whole hard-boiled eggs covered with a layer of force- meat, egged, crumbed in crushed vermicelli, fried in clarified butter, and served with piquante sauce. Entremets Farineux et Farinaceous Food and Mets au Fromage. Savoury Cheese Dishes. Farine de Bermude. Arrowroot. Farine d’avoine d VAnglaise Oatmeal porridge. Gruau de farine. Gruau d’orge. Macaroni au naturel. Macaroni au lait. Macaroni d la creme. Macaroni au gratin. Macaroni d Vltalienne. Mondamin. Oatmeal gruel. Barley gruel. Plain boiled macaroni. Macaroni cooked in milk. Boiled macaroni with cream. Macaroni prepared, baked gratin style. Boiled macaroni with tomato and cheese. Corn flour.SAVOUREUX—SAVOURIES 883 Croquettes de macaroni. Timbale de macaroni. Beicjnets de macaroni. Nouilles cm natural. Nouilles d la Palermo. Mens d l’ Incliennc. Biz bouilli au natural. Bordure de riz. Biz d VIndienne. Biz d la Florentine. Macaroni croquets. Savoury macaroni pudding. Macaroni fritters. Plain boiled noodles (nudels). Stewed noodles with grated cheese. Stewed Indian corn. Plain boiled rice. Border of rice. Curried rice. Rice cooked Florentine style. Stewed rice with picked shrimps, crayfish tails, or prawns, curry paste, grated Parmesan cheese, and finely chopped fried onions. Biz cl la Turque. Rice, Turkish fashion. Stewed rice with saffron powder, Cayenne pepper. Smyrna raisins, and fresh butter. Biz d la Polonaise. Rice, Polish style. Stewed rice with thinly sliced fried onions, shreds of cooked ham, Cayenne pepper, and grated cheese. Biz cl la Piemontaise. Rice, Piedmontese style. Stewed rice with mashed potatoes, finely chopped fried shallots, grated Parmesan cheese, and Cayenne pepper. Biz cl la Milanaise. Rice, Milanese fashion. Stewed rice with grated Parmesan cheese, mixed with coarsely shred meats (fowl, game, tongue, or ham), seasoned with nutmeg and black pepper. Biz d VEspagnole. Rice, Spanish style. Boiled rice, drained and fried in olive oil, mixed with tomato stew and slices of ham, seasoned with grated cheese and Spanish sweet pepper ; the dish is garnished with rounds of ham and slices of smoked sausages. Bisotto aux tomates. Stewed rice with tomato puree.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 334 Bizzoletti. Savoury rice croquets. These are croquets made of stewed rice, seasoned with a rich savoury sauce. Some prepared mincemeat is enclosed in the centre of the croquets; they are crumbed, egged, and fried. Biz d la Beine. Rice, Queen’s style. Stewed rice with fine shreds of hard-boiled whites of egg, and the white part of cooked haddock, and grated cheese. When dished up it is browned in a quick oven. Souffles au fromage. Cheese souffles. Fondues d la Yarmouth. Cheese and bloater - paste souffles. Fondues au Parmesan. Parmesan cheese souffles. Feuillantines au Parmesan. Puff-paste sticks with Par- mesan cheese. Pailles au Parmesan. Cheese straws. Tartclettes Suisses au Swiss cheese tartlets. fromacje. Croutes de fromage d Welsh rarebits and cock VAnglaise. rarebits. Croilte de fromage d I'ceuf Buck rarebit. poche. N.B.-A selection of valuable and thoroughly workable recipes will be published shortly, by the author of this work, for elegant and appetieing Hors-d’oeuvres, Sandwiches, Salads, Oriental and Savoury dishes.335 DESSERT. Fruits and Biscuits. Abricots. Amandes. Biscuits Albert. Biscuits Americains. Pommes. Mirtilles. Biscuits aux chocolat. Biscuits d la cannelle. Cerises. Groseilles rouges. Groseilles blanches. Marrons. Biscuits d la creme. Dattes. Biscuits de dessert. ■ Figues. Biscuits d la cuilUre. Groseilles vertes. Baisin, blanc et noir. Beine- Claudes. Noisettes. Biscuit gingembre. Grenades. Melons. Melons d I'eau. Massepain. Mirabelles. Nefies. Fruits divers. . Biscuits au citron. Macarons. Biscuits de Milan. Mandarines. Oranges. Peches, Pistaches. _ Pruneaux. Apricots. Almonds. Albert biscuits. American biscuits. Apples. Bilberries. Chocolate biscuits. Cinnamon biscuits. Cherries. Bed currants. White currants. Chestnuts. Cream biscuits. Dates. Dessert biscuits. Figs. Finger biscuits. Gooseberries. Grapes, white and black. Greengages. Hazel-nuts. Ginger biscuits. Pomegranates. Melons. Water melons. Marchpane (marzipan) Mirabelles. Medlars. Mixed fruits. Lemon biscuits. Macaroons. Milan biscuits. Mandarins. Oranges. Peaches. Pistachio nuts. Plums.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 336 Avelines. Filberts. Poires. Pears. Goings. Quinces. Gimblettes clenches. Peach cracknels. Nougats aux avelines. Filbert trifles. Biscuits ratafics. Ratafia biscuits. Framboiscs. Raspberries. Fraises. Strawberries. Biscuits de Reims. Sponge biscuits. Ananas. Pineapples. Brugnons. Nectarines. Noix. Walnuts. Raisin sec. Raisins. Gaufres. Wafers. Gateaux arbreux. Tree cakes. Petits choux. Puff cakes. Fondants. Fondants. Fruits crystallises. Crystallised fruit. Quatre mendiants.* Four beggars. Names of French and Swiss Dessert Biscuits, &c Fours secs. Smelles poudrces. Petits Milans. Palets de dames. Bruns de Belle. Plaisirs. Lozcmges millefeuilles. Duchesses. Souffles fraise. Graquelins. Souffles vanille. Patience royales. Briochettes de Marseille. Buchilles. Liens de noisettes. Bricelets sucres. Feuilles ele lierre. Esses vanillees. Florentine. Goguilles d'orctnges. Tuiles. Leckerlis de Bdle. Petits fours. Leckerlis aux noisettes. Macarons. Leckerlis minces. Biscotins. Leckerlis colombier. Tuiles aux fruits. * Consist of four dried dessert fruits: viz.—figs, filberts, almonds and raisins.337 DESSERT Mctcarons a la crime. Americains. G-irofles pistaclies. Lozanges jamaiques, Colibris. Orphees. Taitis. Croissants pistaclies. Negres blancs. Napolitains. Triangles pistaclies. Ananas fondants. Cerises au fondant. Olives noisettes. Predines vanille. Noix pralinees. Fondants fourres. Fondants d la vanille. Fondants aux fraises. Fondants au rhum. Fondants d Vorange. Fondants au cliocolat. Fondants aux noisettes. Fondants d la peche. Pieces Croquembouches nougat. Barque nougat. Temple nougat. Coupe nougat. Corbeille nougat. Maisonnette aumacaroncige Genoise sur socle. Gateau de Chantilly monte, Tronc d'arbre d la voliere. Gerbe de bid d la printanierc GRACES. Mignonnettes. Montmorency. Sarah Bernard. Girafes. Cornets confiture. Africains. Boucliees au rlium. Boule de neige. Berlinois. Bonnes-bouches pralinees. M'aimes-tu ? Carrees glades. Olives pistaclies. Olives chocolat. Pralines fondantes. Nougat blanc de Montelimar. Fondants d la framboise. Fondants aux abricots. Fondants au hirsch. Fondants au citron. Fondants a la menthe. Fondants aux pistaches. Fondants au cafe. Fondants aux poires. montees. Sultanes de fruits confits. Sultanes cle quartiers cV oranges. Macarons montes. Choux mondes d la creme. . Nougat d la Parisienne. Gdtcau Napolitain monte. , Chalet Suisse en nougat. Baba Polonaise. . Gateau millefeuilles.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 888 Fromages. Fromage de Brie. Fromage de Cheddar. Fromage de Chester. Fromage de Camembert. Fromage a la creme. Fromage de chameau. Fromage au cumin. Fromage cle Hollande. Fromage de lait de brebis. Fromage de Gloucester. Fromage vert. Fromage de lait de chdvre. Fromage de vache. Fromage persille du Mont- Cenis. Fromage de Limbourg. Fromage de Lip tan. Fromage de Neufchdtel. Fromage de Gorgonzole. Souchees cle Mayence. Fromage de Parmesan. Fromage de Port Salut. Fromage de Roquefort. Fromage de Stilton. Fromage Suisse. Fromage de Gray ere. Fromage d la scmcge. Fromage de renne. Fromage mou. Fromage cle petit-lait. Cheeses. Brie cheese. Cheddar cheese. Cheshire cheese. Camembert cheese. Cream cheese. Camel cheese. Carraway seed cheese. Dutch cheese. Ewe-milk cheese. • Gloucester cheese. Green cheese. Goat cheese. New milk cheese. Green herb cheese. Limbourg cheese. Liptau cheese. Neufcliatel cheese. Gorgonzola cheese. Mayence hand-cheese. Parmesan cheese. Port Salut cheese. Roquefort cheese. Stilton cheese. Swiss cheese. Gruyere cheese. Sage cheese. Reindeer cheese. German curd cheese. Whey cheese.PAET V. menus md mm coMPiiattoN Specimen Menus of Liuneheons Dinners and Suppers FOR HOTELS, RESTAURANTS, CLUBS, AND PRIVATE FAMILIES FOR ALL OCCASIONS IN ENGLISH, FRENCH, AND OTHER LANGUAGES INCLUDING A COLLECTION OF ANCIENT AND HUMOROUS BILLS OF FARE NAMES OF WINES ETC. 22*HOW TO PREPARE A BILL OF FARE. To make a bill of fare with ease, And one that’s always sure to please, Start “ soup ” as a beginner. Next in order comes the “ fish,” Then some little dainty dish To take away the taste of fish, And pave the way for dinner. Then the “ joints ” can be put in; Roasts and boileds to choose between ; Two of each is right, I ween. Next come the “vegetables”— Not too many; you can fix All the way from three to six Viand-groaning tables. Then the “ entries ” find a place (All tid-bits and meant to brace A waning appetite); These should be not more than three, Made daintily so as to be The epicure’s delight. Here a “ punch” should come between, I reason, And game along with it (if in season). The “pie ” and “ pudding,” “ fruit ” and “ cake,” And last some “ liquor.”—Now, what ’ll you take 1MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION. “Menu mal fait, diner perdu.”—Bhillat-Savarin. Although there is hardly a dinner served nowadays without each guest being provided with a sort of pro- gramme of the dinner—or* as it is called in English “ Bill of Fare ”—our forefathers in the time of yore had no need for them ; they contented themselves by merely looking at the dishes as they.came on the table to judge the nature of the viands. The use of menus was first heard of in 1541, when, at a banquet given by the Duke Henry of Brunswick, his Grace was seen to have a long piece of paper by the side of his plate, to which he occasionally referred. One of the duke’s guests asked what the paper was for and on its being explained that it was a sort of pro- gramme of what they were going to eat, and by looking through it he could reserve his appetite for those dishes he liked best, the idea was so much admired that it soon became generally known and adopted. The old- fashioned bills of fare were usually written on large cards gaudily ornamented with gastronomic symbols, &c.; they were, however, of such a size that only one copy could be conveniently placed at each end of the table.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 342 The size of these cards was gradually diminished, and, as they became smaller, larger numbers were placed at the table, so that at this time each guest is provided with a printed menu card. To set up a menu is an art, and, whatever may be said to the contrary, the style of it adds much to the popularity of a dinner. It gives one, as it were, a foretaste of the chefs ability, and a confidence is consequently inspired. This is, no doubt, as important to a successful issue as is the faith in a doctor’s nostrums. Modern menus, as a rule, are much prettier got up than those of olden times. In the matter of material for menus, white paper is mostly used, but more expensive material is much used also. I have seen some made of silk, papier-mache ; some in the form of shells, books, almanacks, cigars, cigarettes, matchboxes, newspapers, maps, post-cards, bank-notes, blank covers, envelopes, &c. Menus in the shape of envelopes are particularly pretty, and now very much in favour. One takes the form of a small, delicately-coloured envelope of thin cardboard, decorated with gold; the flap is engraved with a motto, crest, name of host or hostess, some flowers, or a knife and fork crossed and a sprig of herbs; the post-mark is “ Bon Appetit.” On the address side is a stamp in gold, with some gastronomic design, and a post-mark bearing the name of the place where the meal is given, with the respective date and name of the diner. The enclosure is, of course, the menu itself. Hand-painted menus on paper, parchment, and satin are in great favour in all Society circles. Some of the newest have a miniature of the host or hostess painted in the centre, and are occasionally the work of noted artists.843 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION In England, America, and France much art and luxury have been lavished on menu cards. Parchment of the Middle Ages competes with Japanese rice-paper. Some menus, with their seals and ribbons, are like a charter of nobility, whilst others are in the form of beautiful miniature fans. For some time there has been a reaction against extravagant luxury, which is being replaced by a sim- plicity not less excessive. Sometimes the names of the dishes are written by hand on thick paper, without any ornamentation. As usual, the best kind are between these excesses of ostentation and severity. Menus of out-of-the-way and awkward shapes are at all times to be avoided, because they encumber the table and are difficult to consult. Without microscopical print, they should be suffi- ciently small to be readable without remark, and not add to the embarrassment caused by a succession of glasses and other articles on the table. The menu card is a simple accessory, and should be treated as such. This rule ought to be taken into consideration when ordering the shapes and sizes. When a menu card has too much prominence given at the table, we run the risk of it being said that “ the dinner on the paper is better than that on the plates.” Among the many points that a cook has to study in order to be perfect in his profession, the composition of a menu is undoubtedly one of the most important. The number of guests for which a meal is to be provided must first of all be taken into considera- tion ; then the style—that is to say, whether'it is to be an expensive or plain luncheon, dinner, or supper that is required, for the menus are generally compiled according to the means and positions of the guests.844 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY The bills of fare vary according to the seasons of the year, and are made up as a rule with dishes appropriate to the times ; there are also certain rules and regula- tions which must at all times be strictly observed. In compiling a menu it is necessary to study the variety of dishes, and their selection, for each dish should vary by its colour and taste from those served before or after. The character of dishes must be retained throughout ; sauces should correspond in taste and colour with the viands with which they are intended to be served. If there are two soups quoted on a menu, one ought to be clear and the other thick; should the thick soup be a puree of vegetables, the clear soup must contain no vegetable roots as garnishing. When two or more fish are to be served, the first, as a rule, is boiled, and generally a large fish, such as turbot, salmon, cod, &c.; the next one would be a small fish, either fried or broiled. Whitebait are often served as a third fish. The entrees should always be so classified that light dishes, such as rissoles, bouchees, croquettes, quenelles, kromeskis, &c., are served first of all. If there are two removes, poultry is served before the butcher’s meat. The cardinal point is to have all dressed removes served before the plain roasted ones. What is called the second service on a menu in- cludes the roast, the savoury, and the sweet entremets, the dessert, and cheese. When two or more sweets are served, the first one is to be hot and the other cold. If fancy savouries are given, they come in after the sweets, for they are intended to prepare the palate for the taste of the choice wines which usually follow a good dinner.MENUS AND XHElll COMPILATION 345 In preparing a bill of fare for a large dinner it is advisable to avoid such dishes which are difficult to dress when done in a great number, for they will cause complication and needless profusion in the kitchen, and often lead to a confusion in the service. It is also most unwise to use new names of dishes which are not known, or which may be known under a different title, for they will only puzzle the diner, who might not know the technical names of old dishes. Avoid also the use of pompous names of dishes, especially when the cost for their preparation is not known, for they often lead to confusion and disappointment. The names of high- standing personalities, towns, countries, &c., are applied in connection with many dishes; the French cuisine especially has the names given to dishes in honour of men who gained their celebrity either by their talent as diplomats, statesmen, soldiers, artists, or such who have distinguished themselves by their gastronomic ox- epicurean merits. Hence we have such names in con- nection with certain dishes as Lucullus, Savarin, Louis XV., Soubise, Richelieu, Careme, Maintenon, Conde, Colbert, Villeroy, Talleyrand, Nesselrode, Demi- doff, Marie-Louise, Montglas, Victoria, &c. These names, as well as many others, are associated with various culinary preparations, and are recognised by cooks of all nations. There are, unfortunately, some narrow-minded cuisiniers who are in the habit of altering the genuine names of dishes, to which they adopt some other high- sounding names, in order to make themselves famous, but will only succeed in making themselves look ridi- culous and small in the eyes of a real gourmand, who is not likely to be thus deceived. If, however, the com- position ot a certain dish is due to the talent andPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 846 initiative of the cook, then the case is different, and he will, have a perfect right to name such a dish according to his fancy. The importance of a well-composed menu is so great that it adds to the success of a dinner in a great measure, whilst a defectively composed menu may compromise the reputation of a good chef. Although the menu may be of little use to some people, it is in- dispensable to connoisseurs who understand the language of the kitchen, for they will be able to judge the kind of dinner on analysing the menu, and by so doing be able to give their verdict as to the capacity of the chef, according to the arrangement of the dishes and the combination of the viands.347 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION IX SPECIMEN MENUS OF ENGLISH DINNERS. (i) White celery soup. Codfish and caper sauce. Lobster croquettes. Fillets of beef with olives. Small chartreuses of game. Fricandeau of veal with spinach. Roast turkey and sausages. Broccoli. Potato croquettes. Brussels sprouts. Plum pudding. Mince pies. Stewed pears, whipped cream. Pineapple toast. ( 2 ) Clear soup with custard. Baked turbot, wine sauce. Fried fillets of soles. Boudin of veal with truffles. Fillets of beef with vegetables. Boiled turkey, onion sauce. Boiled ham. Roast wild duck. Russian salad. American pudding. Mince pies. Ribbon jelly. Chocolate eclairs. (3 ) Grouse soup. John Dory, wine sauce. Lobster cutlets. Stewed Bordeaux pigeons. Roast haunch of mutton. Boiled turkey and tongue. Mashed potatoes. ' Spinach. Wild ducks, orange sauce. Plum pudding. Mince pies. Apples il la Cond6. Pineapple jelly.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 348 SIX SPECIMEN MENUS OF ENGLISH DINNERS 0continued). (4) Palestine soup. Gravy soup. Boiled cod, caper sauce. Fried smelts. Mutton cutlets, tomato sauce. Chicken croquettes. Salmis of partridges. Beef olives. Boiled turkey, celery sauce. Roast sirloin of beef. Mashed potatoes. Broccoli. Brussels sprouts. Roast pheasants. Bloaters on toast. Rizine pudding. Tipsy cake. Orange jelly. Pineapple cream. Mince pies. Cheese cakes. (5) Clear oxtail soup. Turbot, lobster sauce. Stewed eels. Fried sweetbreads. Fillets of beef, with mushrooms. Croquettes of game. Shoulder of mutton, boned and stuffed; puree of haricot beans. Braised turkey, chestnut sauce. Potatoes mashed. Stewed celery. Brussels sprouts. Golden plovers. Potato chips. Scotch woodcock. Plum pudding. Mince pies. Nougats with cream. Chocolate cream. Claret jelly. Venus pudding. (6) Clear soup & la Royale. Sevigne soup. Turbot, Tartare sauce. Fried smelts. Supreme of chickens. Macaroni timbales. Mutton cutlets la reforme. Fillets of rabbit, liver sauce Boiled turkey, celery sauce. Tongue. Roast sirloin of beef, horseradish sauce. Spinach. Jerusalem artichokes. Potato croquettes^MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 349 SIX SPECIMEN MENUS IN ENGLISH AND FRENCH. (i) Tapioca soup, Potage au tapioca. Breast of veal it la poulette, Tendrons de veau a la poulette. Fillets of sole s\ l’Orly, tomato sauce, Filets de soles a I’Orly, sauce tomates. ltoast leg of mutton, Gigot roti. Puree of haricot beans, Puree d'haricots. Bavarian cream and fruit, Bavarcis aux fruits. ( 3 ) Bread soup, Potage au pain. Boiled beef, Robert sauce, Piece de bceuf d la sauce Robert. Stewed roe, Casseroles de laitances. Roast chump of veal, Quartier de veau roti. Asparagus, Asperges en branches. Virgin cream, Creme vierge. ( 5 ) Green pea soup, Potage aux petits pois. Hot salmon-pie, Pate chwud de saumon. Mutton cutlets ;1 la jardiniere, Cotelettes de mouton jardiniere. Glazed ham, Jambon glace. Vegetable salad, Salade de legumes. Apple fritters, Beignets de pommes. ( 2 ) Crficy soup, Potage puree Creep. Broiled whiting, Merlans grilles. Glazed shoulder of lamb, Epaide d'agneau glaccc. Roast fowls, Poulcts rotis. Peas and bacon, Pois au lard. Croquenbouche, Croquenbouche. (4) Spring soup, Potage printanier. Boiled bass, shrimp sauce, Bar bouilli, sauce crevettes. Beef marrow l’Orly, Moelle de bumf a VOrly. Roast leg of Southdown mutton Gigot de pre-sale roti. Sauteed potatoes, Pommes sautees. Almond cakes, Gateau d'a/mande massif. ( 6 ) Sorrel soup, Potage a Voseille. Sole stuffed with mixed herbs, Sole fa/rcie aux fines herbes. Rissoles of cockscombs and truffles, Rissoles dc cretes de coq et de truffes. Roast fillet of beef, Filet de bceuf roti. Stewed chicory, Chicorce au jus. Iced strawberry souffle, Souffle glace aux fraises.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 350 SPECIMEN MENUS OF LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS AT FIXED PRICES. ZHZOTIEIIL UVEZEIsrTTS- Luncheon at lOd. to. Is. Luncheon at Is. 3d. to Is. 6d Soup. Soup. Joint. Light entree. Vegetables. Roast joint. Vegetables and cheese. Luncheon at 2s. Luncheon at 2s. 6d. Soup. Soup. Fish. Fish. Joint. Choice of entrtie or joint. Vegetables. Vegetables. Salacl and cheese. Poultry and salad. Cheese. Dinner at 3s. Dinner at 3s. 6d. Soup. Soup. Fish. Fish. Entr6e. Entrees. Joint and vegetables. Joint and vegetables. Poultry or game. Poultry or game. Salad. Salad. Sweets. Sweets. Cheese. Dinner at 4s. Dinner at 4s. 6d. Soup. Soup. Fish. 2 Fish. 2 Entries. 2 Entries. Joint and vegetables. 1 Remove. Poultry or game. 1 Roast. Salad and fried potatoes. Vegetables. Sweets. 2 Sweets. Dessert. Cheese. Fruit and dessert. Cheese.MENUS AND THEIB COMPILATION 351 SPECIMEN MENUS OF LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS AT FIXED PRICES. Here is a specimen menu of a London restaurant :—- Luxcheox, 2s. 6cl. (No attendance.) From 1 p.m. till 3. Potage. Consomm6 au riz. Poisson. Cabillaud grille au beurre d’anchois. Entree. Veau la Marengo. Poti. Cote de bceuf roti. Legumes. Artichauts. Pommes maitre d’hotel. From age. The following is a specimen menu of a 3s. table d’hote :— Soup. Clear ox-tail. Fish. Fillets of sole it l’Orly. Entree. Lamb cutlets. Vegetables. Green peas. Mashed potatoes. Roast. Chicken with cresses. Straw potatoes. Sweets. Cabinet pudding. Cheese.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 352 Dessert. Dessert. LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS AT FIXED PRICES (continued). Dinner at 3s. 6d. Potage it la Windsor. Surmulet grille, sauce matelote. Escalopes de lapereauxaux pointes d’asperges. Pintade rotie. Navets au jus. Beignets do fraises. (Translated.) Windsor soup. Red mullets, matelote sauce. Scallops of young rabbits with asparagus points. Roast guinea fowl. Braised turnips. Strawberry fritters. Dinner at 4s. Consomme it la Julienne. Turbot bouilli, sauce hollandaise. Croquettes de volaille, sauce tomate. Gigot de mouton roti. Haricots verts sautes. Faisan roti. Pommes frites. Salade. Gateau d’amandes. Dessert. Fromage. (Translated.) Julienne clear soup. Boiled turbot, Dutch sauce. Chicken croquets, tomato sauce. Roast leg of mutton. French beans, sauteed. Roast pheasant. Fried potatoes. Salad. Almond cake. Dessert. Cheese. MENUS OF DINNERS AS SERYED IN LONDON CLUBS. 3s. Dinners. Clear soup with rice, or Puree of carrots. Fried slip, anchovy sauce. Hashed mutton. Roast beef. Brussels sprouts and potatoes. Rhubarb tart, or ice. Tapioca soup, or Pur6e of leeks. Boiled trout or Whitebait . Stewed pigeons. Roast forequarter of lamb. Macaroni cheese. Open cherry tart, or Fruit jelly. 4s. Consomme vermicelle. Puree aux huitres. Raie au beurre noir. Poulet saute 4 l'italienne Boeuf roti. Petits pois 4 l’anglaise. Pouding cabinet. Glace ii l’orange. Dinners. Clear soup with lettuce leaves. Baked sole. Timbale of game au chasseur. Chicken with tomato sauce. Roast leg of mutton. Chopped asparagus with cream. Apple tart and Rizine custard. Macedoine of fruit.353 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION DINNERS AS SERVED IN (continued). 5s. Dinners Hors-d'oeuvres. Consomme printanier i\ la royale. Filets de maquereaux & la Venitienne. Rougets au gratin. Bouchees la Montglas. Noix de veau, sauce Perigueux. Yolaille de Bresse roti. PommesDnchesse. Tomates farcies. Choux-fleurs il la creme Crofite aux fruits. Petits fours. Glace aux fraises. LONDON CLUBS Brunoise. Pea Soup. Salmon and lobster sauce. Whitebait. Vol-au-vent of sweetbreads. Lamb cutlets with peas. Roast beef. Boiled fowl. Rissoles. Potatoes. Brussels sprouts. Balmoral pudding. Jelly and pastry. Vanilla ice. Dessert. TABLE D’HOTE MENDS. At 4s. 6d. hORSDCEUVRES* Sardines. Butter. POTAGES. Printanier & la royale. Bonne femme. POISSON. Saumon, sauce persil. Soles frites. ENTREES. Rissoles de volaille. Ris de veau jardiniere. ROTI. Lamb and mint sauce. New peas and potatoes. ENTREMETS. Genoise glacee. Chocolat ice. FROMAGE. Stilton. Gruy&re. Gorgonzola. DESSERT. Varies. At 5s. HORS-D CEUVRES. Varies. POTAGES. Consomme aux quenelles. Puree de haricots bretonne. POISSON. Filets de turbot de Reyniere. Blanchailles. ENTREES. j Croustade de ris d’agneau. Pigeon en compote. RELEVE. Hanche de venaison. ROTI. Poularde au cresson. ENTREMETS. Fonds d’artichauts italienne. Glace Napolitaine. Patisserie. DESSERT. Fromages.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 354 TABLE D’HOTE MENUS {continued). At 6 s. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Varies. POTAGES. Julienne. Parmentiei. POISSONS. Saumon grille maitre d’hotel. Sole au gratin. Whitebait. ENTREES. Bouchees Dauphine. Escalopes portugaises. Caneton en compote. RELEVE Gigot de mouton la Bretonne. ROTI C.ailles. Pommes pailles. Salade de saison. ENTREMETS. Asperges, sauce kollandaise. Pouding a la Creole. GLACES. Aux fraises. DESSERT ASSORTI. Caf6 noir. At 7s. 6d. SOUPS. Mulligatawny. Italian paste. FISH. Salmon trout and lobster sauce. Fried fillets of sole, tartare sauce. ENTREES- Sweetbreads in cases. Pigeons and peas REMOVES. Lamb and mint sauce. Boiled chicken & parsley sauce. Ham and Madeira sauce. VEGETABLES. Boiled potatoes. Asparagus, supreme sauce. Saute potatoes. SWEETS. Gooseberry tart. Genoise glacee. Macedoine jelly. Ice pudding. Cheese. Rizine savoury. Salad. DESSERT. Cafe noir.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 355 HOTEL DINNERS. At 7s. 8d. (4 to 6 Covers). SOUPS. Thick ox tail. Paysanne. FISH. Salmon and lobster sauce. Whitebait. ENTREES. Sweetbreads in cases. Chicken saute and peas. REMOVES. Ribs of beef and horseradish. Saddle of mutton and red- currant jelly. VEGETABLES. Boiled potatoes. ; Saute potatoes. Cauliflower and bechamel sauce. SWEETS. Spanish pudding. Maids of honour. Macedoine jelly. Cheese. Salad. At 8s. 6d. (4 to 6 Covers). POTAGES. Consomm6 aux legumes. Eur6e de volaille aux profiteroles. POISSONS. Blanchailles. Truites, sauce hollandaise. ENTREES. Ris d’agneau it la financiere. Chaudfroidde cailles it la gelee. releve's. Selle de mouton. Poulardes brais§es. Langue. le'gumes. Haricots verts sautes. Puree de pommes. Aubergines farcies. ROT. Canetons et petits pois. Pommes soufflees. Salade de saison. ENTREMETS. Savarin aux abricots. Creme de pistaches. Glace aux fraises. Petites bouchees au fromage. Fromages. DESSERT Cafe noir. DESSERT. N.B.—The Menus herein quoted at fixed prices are mostly specimens as served in London Clubs, Hotels, and Restaurants. They can be taken as an average criterion of the ordinary business, but the number and the class of guests, the season as well as the places where dinners are to be served, should always be taken into consideration when quoting prices, as such may entail some alteration. 23PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY DESSERT. DESSERT. 856 HOTEL DINNER at 10s. 6d. Service a MENU. Melon. POTAGES. Creme de ma'is. Printanier royale. HORS-D'CEUVRE. Petites timbales Lucullus. POISSON. U arne de saumon ala Chambord. RELEVES. Selle d’agneau Parisienne. Pommes Duchesse. Haricots verts. ^ Tomates farcies. ENTRE'ES. Mousse Belmond. Ris de veau a la Montpensier. Homard a la Russe. Punch A l’lmperiale. ROT. Perdreaux. Salade Yenitienne. ENTREMETS. C61eri & la moelle. Gelee Marie-Louise. Gateau de fantaisie. la Russe. BILL OF FARE. Melon. SOUPS. Cream of maize. Royal spring. HORSD’CEUVRES. Small timbales, Lucullus style. FISH. Middle of salmon, Chambord style. REMOVES. Saddle of lamb, Parisian style. Duchesse potatoes. French beans. Stuffed tomatoes. ENTRE'ES. Mousse Belmond. Sweetbread Montpensier style. Lobster a la Russe. Imperial punch. ROAST. Partridges. Venetian salad. SWEETS. Celery with marrow. Marie-Louise jelly. Fancy cake.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 357 DESSERT DESSERT 1 HOTEL DINNER at 12s. 6d. Service a la Francaise. MENU. “ Restituez vos forces nvec les viandes, et r^jouissezvos Smes arec les vins.” HORS-D’CEUVRES. POTAGES. Puree de tomates. Fausse tortue, POISSONS. Tui-bot, sauce homard. Anguille braisee a la Nelson. ENTREES. Filet de boeuf. Champignons frais. Tete de veau en tortue. RELEVES. Selle de pre-sale. Poulet bouilli, sauce persil. Jambon braise au Champagne. Caneton d’Aylesbury roti. GIBIER. Faisans, Perdreaux, Gelinottes. Salade. ENTREMETS. Pouding Cabinet. Crfeme au chocolat. Gel6e au vin. Glace soufflee aux fraises. Patisserie. Souffles au Parmesan. BELL OF FARE. Restore your strength with meat, and cheer your souls with wine.” HORS-D’CEUVRES. SOUPS. Puree of tomato. Mock turtle. FISH. Turbot and lobster sauce. Stewed eel t\ la Nelson. ENTREES. Fillet of beef. Fresh mushrooms. Calf’s head en tortue. REMOVES. Saddle of Southdown mutton. Boiled chicken, parsley sauce. Braised ham and champagne. Roast Aylesbury duckling. GAME. Pheasants, Partridges, and Grouse. Salad. SWEETS. Cabinet pudding. Chocolate cream. Wine jellies. Iced strawberry souffles. Pastry. Parmesan cheese souffles.358 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY DESSERT. DESSERT- BANQUET MENUS. 50 to 60 Covers, at 6s. BILL OF FARE. MENU. SOUPS. Portuguese. Vermicelli. FISH. Salmon and lobster sauce. Grilled mullet, ravigote sauce. ENTREES. Tournedos a la Goufte. Chicken saute 4 la Marengo. REMOVES. Lamb and mint sauce. Fillet of beef, Tuscan style. Grilled bam and peas. ROAST. Duckling and watercress. Chipped potatoes. VEGETABLES. Boiled potatoes. Saute potatoes. Spinach. SWEETS. Apricot meringues. Strawberry tartlets. Macedoine jelly. Gateau Rizine. Ice pudding. Cheese. Salad. HORSD’CEUVRES POTAGES. Consomme A la Bourgeoise. Purge Parmentier. POISSONS. Turbot, sauce hollandaise. Filets de sole l’Orly. entre'es. Blanquette de veau a la Clamart. . Tournedos A la Mirabeau. RELEVES. ! Selle d’agneau, sauce menthe. Jambon au vin de Madere. Epinards au jus. Pommes de terre Duchesse. ROT. Pigeons rotis au cresson. Salade. ENTREMETS I Mille-feuilles A la Chantilly aux fraises. Merluche sur toast. Mousse la Cardinal. Petits gateaux CondeMENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 359 BANQUET MENUS —(continued). 70 to 80 covers, at 7s. 6d., exclusive of Wines. MENU. Wines. Yennuto di Torino. Manzanilla. Haut Sauterne, 1878. Th. Roederer, Extra Reserve Cuvee, 1880. Hors-d’oeuvres. Caviar et anchois sur canap6. Consomme a la reine. Creme de laitue. Truite saumonee froide, sauce ravigote. Filets de sole au vin blanc. Coquille de homard 4 la Bechamel. Caille il la Souvaroff. Cotelettes d’agneau il la Reforme. Pommes nouvelles. Margaux, 1869. Seligmann et Cie. Yerzenay Cabinet. Deutz et Geldermann, specially selected 1880. DESSEBT WINES. Chateau Giscours, 1874. Royal Port. Liqueurs. PUNCH AU CHAMPAGNE. Poularde de la Bresse a la casserole. Salade de laitue il la creme. Salade de tomates. Rocher de foie gras en aspic. Asperges en branche it l’huile. Saravin it la Montmorency. Meringues il la Chantilly. Biscuits glaces il la Royale. Croutes de Rizinc. DESSEBT. EBUITS DE SAISON. CAPE.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY B .A. N Q, XT E T 3VEE N XJ S—■(continued). 50 to 60 covers at 10s. 6d. Huitres. POTAGES. Tortue claire, Bisque d’ecrevisses. HORS'D CEUVRES. Petites croustades a la Venitienne. POISSONS. Truites saumon6es 4 la Chambord. Timbales de filets de soles a la Nelson. ENTREES. Cotelettes de cailles 4 la chevreuse. Ris de veau 4 la modeme. Aspics de homard 4 la Bagration. RELEVES. Selle de mouton 4 l’Anglaise. Poulardes 4 l’Ecossaise. Sorbet 4 la Prince de Galles. ROTS. Canetons d’Aylesbury. Petits pois nouveaux. ENTREMETS. Asperges en branches. So utiles cbauds 4 la printaniere. Gelees aux fruits. Gateaux. Petit Due. GLACES. Comtesse Marie. Corbeilles 4 la Parisienne. SAVOURY. Kamequins au Parmesan. DESSERT. Cafe. Liqueurs.3(51 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION BANQUET MENUS —(continued). 80 to 100 covers at 10s. 6d., exclusive of Wines. Hors- il'oeuvre: Potages: Hultres. Chablis. iTortue claire. Bisque de homard. Amontillado. Poissons: Entrees: lleleves : Turbot, sauce genoisc. Cabillaud, sauce hollandaise. Filets de soles frits it la tartare. Petits vol-au-vents it la financiere. Cotelettes d’agneau it laMaintenon. Civet de levraut. Aloyau de boeuf it l’anglaise. Hanche de venaison. Hock et Moselle. H. & G. Hirscb, Mayence. Marcobrunner Auslese. Hochheimer. Itotis : Entremets: Glace: Dessert: Jambon de York au Madere. Epinards it la franyaise. Pommes de terre soufflees. Choux-fleurs au gratin. Perdreaux, pommes de terre frites. Pouding diplomatique.—Patisserie melee. Gelee it la macedoine. Tourte de pommes. Charlotte russe. Crfeme it la vanille. Compote de fruits. Pouding it la Nesselrode. Ananas. Melons. Raisin. Poires. Noix. Cafe et liqueurs. Sparkling- Moselle. Magnums, Bollinger, Extra quality. Perinet et fils, 1880. Nuits. Chateau Lalitte. CMteau Palmer 1875 Port et Madeira.362 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY BANQUET MENTIS—(continued). HORS-D'OEUVRES. Lampreys in oil. Sardines. Foie gras. Mortadella sausage. SOUPS. Clear turtle. Bisque d’ecrevisses. FISH. Salmon, hollandaise sauce and cucumber. Whitebait, plain and devilled. Fillets of soles bigarade. ENTRIES. Bouchees A. la reine. Venison cutlets en papillotes. Sweetbreads a la Portugaise. Chaudfroid of quail cutlets. Punch a la Romaine.. REMOVES. Lamb and mint sauce. Grilled ham and peas. ROAST. Duckling and watercress. Salad. Chipped potatoes. Mayonnaise of lobster. SWEETS. Peaches, Richelieu style. Apricot meringues. Vanilla Charlotte. Chartreuse of strawberries. Compote of greengages. Pyramid of ice cream. Cheese. Salad. Canape of caviar. DESSERT. Cafe noir.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 363 PRIVATE DINNERS, <fec. IMI DEIST IT- 12 to 15 covers at 12s. 6d. Hultres au naturel. POTAGES. Mulligatawny claire. Tortue liee. Purfie it 1’Americaine. Poissons. Cotelettes de saumon it Flndienne. Turbot, sauce Hollandaise. Filets de merlans it la Tartare. Entrees. Ris de veau it la financiere. Salmi de pluvier 4 la Careme. Removes. oulet it la Burmah. Jambon aux opinards. ,Dindon aux saucissons. Rots. Selle de mouton. Salade it Pallemande. Faisans. Champignons frais grilles. Entremets. Ponding Moulmin. Gelee arrack. Chartreuse d’ananas. Dames d’honneur. G LACES. Gingembre it l’eau. CicSme au cafe.364 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY PRIVATE DINNERS, &C.—(continued). IwTEIsrTJ. 12 to 15 covers at 15s. Huitres en coquilles. POTAGES. Tortue verte li6e. Consomme Sevigne. HORS-D'CEUVRES. Varies. Petites timbales Richelieu. Varies. POISSON. Filets de saumon garnis de paupiettes d’eperlans, sauce Maximilien. Paniers de tomates et concombres. RELEVES. Selle de mouton & la Soubise. Champignons farcis. Croquettes de pommes de terre. Haricots verts I l’anglaise. ENTREES. Souffle de -chapon 4 la Regence. Pains de becasses it la Saint-Hubert. Fonds d’artichauts, puree de truffes. ROT. Canards (canvas-back), sauce groseille. Salade de celeri 4 la Brunswick. ENTREMETS. Allumettes au fromage. Glace 4 la Rothschild. Turban d’ananas it la creme. Gateau Cussy. DESSERT. Petits fours. Biscuits. Fromage. Demi-tasse.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 365 PUBLIC DINNER at 17s. 6d. per head, inclusive of Wines, (20 to 30 Covers.) jfllbenu. Huitres. Chablis. POTAGES. Consomme de volaille aux quenelles. Potage imperiale. SJuirry. HOBS-D’CEUVRE. Petites croustades Lucullus. POISSON. Turbot, sauce bomard. Filets de bar it la Venitienne. Clos du Rocker. RELEVE. Tournedos Rossini. Fleur de Sillery. ENTREES. Chartreuse diplomat e. Cotelettes d’agneau macedoine. Aspic de foie gras en Bellevue. Punch a la Romaine. ROTS. Poularde truffee. Salade panachee. Champayne: Meet et Chandon. ENTREMETS. Asperges en branches, sauce hollandaise. Timbales de poircs Duchesse. Glace de fantaisie. Medoc vieux. Vieux Malaya.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 360 Cafe noir et Cognac. DINNER at 20s. per head, inclusive of Wines. (50 to 60 Covers.) HORS-D’CEUVRES. Anchovy salads. Royans in oil. Canapes of caviare. Goose liver sausage. Chablis. SOUPS. Clear and thick turtle. Madeira. PISH. Salmon and mousseline sauce. Whitebait, plain and devilled. Hock: Rudesheimer. ENTREES. Quail cutlets in cases. Sweetbreads 4 la Portugaise. f Devtz et Gelderviann, Gold Lack. Champagnes | MoU et Clmndon, Dry Imperial. Plovers’ eggs in aspic. REMOVES. Lamb and mint sauce. Salade romaine. Saddle of venison. Grilled reindeer ham and peas.' Mayonnaise of crawfish. ROAST. Duckling and watercress. Chipped potatoes. Asparagus. Stuffed tomatoes. SWEETS. Diplomatic pudding. Surprise omelet. Peaches a la Conde. Ice pudding. Cheese. Salad. Broiled oysters on toast. DESSERT. Port. Cla/ret.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 367 dinner at 22s. 6cl. per head, inclusive of Wines. (30 to 40 Covers.) POTAGES. Tortue claire. Consomme A la Marie Louise. POISSONS. Saumon, sauce Hollandaise et Genevoise. Blanchailles. ENTREES. Souffles de volaille A l’ambassadrice. Ris de veau A l’Argenteuil. RELEVES. Quartier d’agneau. Poulets printani.er. Jambon d’York. Pommes nouvelles. Petits pois. Haricots verts. Sorbets A l’ananas. ROTIS. Cailles et Canetons d’Aylesbury. Salades, A la Grimod et A la Frangaise. LEGUMES. Asperges en branches. Kari A l’orientale. ENTREMETS. Charlotte A la polonaise. Glace mousseuse. Pailles au parmesan et caviar. DESSERT. CARTE DE VINS. Punch. Amontillado. Marcobrunner'. Hochheimer. Pommery et Greno. Hau et Cie. Chateau Margaux. Oporto.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 368 DINNER at 25s. per head. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Pickled tunny fish. Sardines., Lyons sausage. Canapes of caviar, Remoulade style. Savterne. SOUPS. Clear turtle. Bisque d’ecrevisses. Madeira. PISH. Salmon, Genoese sauce and cucumber. Whitebait, plain and devilled. Fillets of soles and Hollandaise sauce. Hock: Laubenheimer. ENTREES. Bouchees a la Princesse. Sweetbreads k la Portugaise. Champagnes: Hcidsiech et Cie.; Mvrnm et Cie. Punch a la Romavne. REMOVES. Lamb and mint sauce. Salade Bomaine. Spring chicken and parsley sauce. Ham and Madeira. Chaudfroid of quail cutlets. Haunch of venison and red currant jelly. French beans. Crayfish and asparagus point salad. ROAST. Duckling and watercress. Chipped potatoes. Giant asparagus. Green peas, French style. SWEETS. Mocha cake. Charlotte, Neapolitan style. Chartreuse of pineapple. Ice pudding. Small ice biscuits. Liqueurs. Cheese. Salad. DESSERT. Peaches. Hot-house grapes. Strawberries. Melon. Chateau-Montrose. Malmsey. Cafe noir et Cognac.369 MENUS AND THEIB COMPILATION REGIMENTAL DINNER at 27s. 6d., inclusive of Wines, /iftcitu. HORS-D'CETJVRE. Hultres au citron. Chahlis. POTAGES. Consomme it la fermi&re. Creme de volaille. Tortne liee. Dry Sherry. POISSONS. Truite dn Rhin, sauce Bordelaise. Mousse de merlans A la Dieppoise. - Niersteiner. ENTREES. Ris de veau it la Toulouse. Cdtelettes d’agneau aux pointes d’asperges. Dry Imperial, Perinet et fils. RELEVES. Filet de boeuf A la Provensale. Pommes de terre chateau. Jambon au vin de Madere. Epinards au jus. ROTI. Poulardes roties au cresson. Salade it la Perigora. Fonds d’articbauts farcis. ENTREMETS. Souffles de pommes it la critme. Gelee it l’orange. Petits giiteaux palmiers. Hareng fume sur toast. Pouding glace. Gaufrettes. Fine Champagne Liqueur. DESSERT. Chateau Marquis de Terme. Old Bottled Port. Cafe noir.370 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY PRIVATE DINNER at 30s. per head, inclusive of Wines. JUill of dfare. HORS-D’OEUVRES. Natives. Anchovy salad. Brunswick sausage. Caviare darioles. Sardine patties. Stuffed plover’s eggs. Chablis. SOUPS. Thick and clear turtle. Madeira. FISH. Salmon-trout, Victoria style. Whitebait, plain and devilled. Fillets of soles au gratin. Hoc,It,: Rudesheimer. ENTREES. Bouchees a la Montglas. Sweetbreads Portugaise. /Louis Roederer's Carte Blanche, 1880 vin. Champagnes : yMoU et chandnn, Dry Imperial, 1880 via. Punch a la Romaine. Chaudfroid of chicken, Bellevue style. REMOVES. Roast young wild boar. Lamb and mint sauce. Celery and truffle salad. Grilled ham and peas. Mayonnaise of lobster. Boiled capon and parsley sauce. Larded chamois fillet and os tongue. ROAST. Ortolans on toast. Aylesbury duckling and watercress. Italian salad Puff potatoes. SWEETS. Gateau Trois Fibres. Savarin with maraschino syrup. Macedoine of fruit in jelly. Nesselrode ice pudding Liqueurs Cheese. French Salad. DESSERT. Old Port. Old Claret. Black coffee and Cognac brandy..MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 871 PRIVATE DINNER at 35s. per head, inclusive of Wines. Milk Punch. SHERRY. Amontillado. RHENISH. Grafenberg. Riidesheimer. 36UI of jfare. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Natives. Olives. Astrachan caviare. Huitres au citron. Foie gras de Strasbourg. SOUPS. Real turtle. Spring a la Royale. Puree of game. FISH. Salmon, sauces Hollandaise and G6noi.se. Fillets of soles, Joinville. Whitebait. CLARET. St. Emilion. Chateau Lafitte. CHAMPAGNES. Heidsieck. Dry Monop. Pfungst fibres. G. H. Mutnm, 1884. LIQUEURS. Chartreuse. Maraschino. Cognac. Fine Champagne, 1806. PORT. Thompson, 1863. Valencia, 1871. CLARET. Chateau-Figeac. ENTRIES. Lobster, American style. Mutton cutlets, Reform style. Fillets of chicken, supreme. Zephires of foie gras. REMOVES. Saddle of lamb. Venison, Bohemian style. Sirloin of beef, with spring vegetables. Yorkshire ham. Champagne sauce. ROAST. Grouse. Ducklings. Quails. Giant asparagus. Green peas. Pulf potatoes. SALADS. Russian salad. Anchovy salad. SWEETS. Vanilla souffle. Fruit tarts. Strawberry creams. Chartreuse jelly. Neapolitan ice pudding. Cheese straws. Oyster fritters. Dessert. Coffee. Cigars. 24372 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY SERVICE A LA RUSSE. 40s. per head. /Ilbenu. POTAGES. Consomme ricbe aux pointes d’asperges. Tortue claire. Duchesse li6. Hors-d’ceuvres varies. CEufs de pluvier. Petites croustades la Rossini. Caviar d'Astrachan sur canapes. Releve. Saurnon a la Chambord. Turbot de Dieppe, sauce mousseline. Filets de truite i\ la meuni&re. Entrees. Quartier de cbevreuR, grand veneur. Ris de veau aux truffles. Poulardes a la Valenciennes. Sorbet au Sherry. Rots. Faisans rotis. Perdreaux rotis. Pommes de terre soufflees. Salades. Langouste a la Victoria. Truffles la Rothschild. Entremets. Haricots verts au beurre d’lsigny. Bombe A l’Ecossaise. Gateau des lies. Les huitres sur canapes. Feuilletees de Parmesan. Dessert. Corbeilles de fruits. Bonbons. Petits fours. Vi ns. Made re. Steinberg Cabinet. Chateau Coutet-sur-Saluces. Medoc extra vieux en carafes. Clos d’Estournel, 1877. Pomard Boucherottes. Champagne frappe Montebello. Ehrmann friges, 1884. Oporto, magnum, 1851. Heidsieck Dry Monopole, 18S0. Zamora. Cafe Turc et liqueurs.MENUS AND TIIEIR COMPILATION 373 LENTEN DINNERS. (i) Potage la crime cl’orge. Rougets it ntaliciine. Vol-au-vent it la Macedoine. Croquettes de semoule. Darne de saumon it la Tartare. Salade de saison. Ponding aux amandes. (2 ) Potage puree il la Palestine. Filets de sole il la Dauphine. Bouchees d’anchois. Epinards A la creme. Galantine d’anguilles. Salade aux tomates. Omelette aux confitures. Pailles au parmesan. (3) Puree il l’oseilie. Cotelettes de saumon il l'lndienne. Bordure de riz aux huitres. Pommes croquettes. Fonds d’artichauts aux epinards. Croutes aux ancliois. Crepes au chocolat. Glace il Bananas. Dames d’honneur. (4 ) Potage creme de riz. Filets de soles il l’Orly. Turbot bouilli, sauce anchois. Crevettes au gratin. Carottes il la b6chamel. Pommes pailles. Pointes d’asperges il la Sicilienne. Corbeilles A, la vanille. Gel6e il l’orange. (1) Pearl barley soup with cream. Red mullets, Italian style. Vol-au-vent with mixed vegetable. Semolina croquets. Salmon steak, Tartare sauce. Salad. Almond pudding. (2) Puree of Jerusalem artichokes. Fillets of sole, Dauphine style. Small anchovy patties. Mashed spinach with cream. Galantine of eels. Tomato salad. Jam omelet. Cheese straws. (3) Sorrel soup. Salmon cutlets, Indian style. Rice border with stewed oysters. Potato croquets. Artichoke bottoms stuffed with spinach. Anchovy crusts. Pancakes with chocolate. Pineapple ice. Maids of honour. (4 ) Rice cream soup. Fillets of soles, Orly style. Boiled turbot, anchovy sauce. Baked prawns, gratin style. Young carrots, bechamel style. Straw potatoes. Asparagus points, Sicilian style. Vanilla baskets. Orange jelly.874 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY LENTEN DINNERS —(continued.) ( 5 ) Potage Partnenticr. Cabillaurl roti aux fiperlans. Pommes Parisiennes. Petites bouchees de homard 4 la Cardinal. Tomates au gratin. Mayonnaise de saumon. Glace Napolitaine. Cigarettes de fromage. (6 ) Julienne au maigre. Beignets d’huitres. Truite saumonee, sauce Hollandaise. Pommes poissons. CEufs frits a la Colbert. Cotelettes de Rizine. Aspic d’ecrevisses. Salade a la Framjaise. Charlotte giacee 4 la Florentine. Cassolettes savoureux. (7) Potage aux huitres. Ombre ft la maitre d’hotel. Vol-au-vent aux ceufs, sauce creme. Haricots verts au beurre. Grenadins de saumon a la Venitienne. Salade de harengs fumes. Croquettes de macaroni. Abricots au riz, sauce framboise. (5 ) Puree of potatoes. Baked cod with smelts. Potatoes, Parisian style. Small lobster patties, Cardinal style. Baked tomatoes. Salmon mayonnaise. Neapolitan ice Cheese cigarettes. (6) Julienne in fish broth. Oyster fritters. Salmon trout, Hollandaise sauce. Fish potatoes. Baked eggs, Colbert style. Rizine cutlets. Savoury jelly of crayfish. French salad. Iced charlotte, Florentine style. Savoury cassolettes. (7 ) Oyster soup Broiled grayling with parsley butter. Vol-au-vent with eggs, cream sauce. French beans with butter. Salmon fillets, Venetian style. Smoked herring salad. Macaroni croquets. Apricots with rice, raspberry sauce. VEGETARIAN DINNER. Lentil soup. Poached eggs with spinach. Rizine cutlets and tomato sauce. Curried aubergines with boiled rice. Irish stew. Macaroni au gratin. Apple and tapioca pie. Bird’s nest pudding. Semolina custard. Palace blancmange. Savoury omelet.MENUS ANJ) THEIR COMPILATION 375 Dessert. Dessert. SPECIMEN MENUS OF ENGLISH MESS CATERING. LUNCH Consomme of chicken. Lamb cutlets and peas. Quenelles of sweetbreads and truffles. Quails. Asparagus. New potatoes. Cold. Roast fowls. Tongue. Regent sandwiches. Compote of pineapple. Raked tapioca pudding. DINNER Olives farcies. Sardines. Potage si la reine. Turbot, sauce homard. Blanchailles. Fricassee de poulet aux truffes. Epigramme d’agneau aux concombres. Aloyau de bceuf, sauce raifort. Gelinotte. Pouding Cobourg. Gelee au champagne. Petits fours. Plombiere aux abricots. Canape d'anchois. Dessert. Mulligatawny soup. Salmon, parsley sauce. Fillets of beef. Chicken saute. Roast haunch of mutton. Ducklings. Asparagus. Nelson pudding Blancmange. Devilled sardines. Apricot ice. MENUS. Mayonnaise of salmon. Lobster salad. Potted shrimps. Ham. Tongue. Round of beef. Roast spring chickens. Roast lamb. Jellies. Creams. Pineapple ice. MENUS. Turtle soup. Turbot and Hollandaise sauce. Sweetbreads and mushrooms. Curried prawns. Hind-quarter of lamb. Fillet of veal and bacon. Spring chickens and watercress. Lemon pudding. Fruit tarts. N eapolitan ice pudding. Dessert. Turtle soup. Whitebait. Ragout of ox tail. Farced tomatoes. Roast beef. Ham and salad. Sweet omelet. Jelly. Cream. Anchovy toast. Strawberry water ice.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY B76 BALL STTPPEB MENUS. /llbenu bu Souper. Cotelettes de saumon. Filets de soles. Aspic de crevettes A l’lndienne. Cotelettes d’agneau A. la Strasbourg Poulet au cresson. Petits pains a la Parisienue. Langue de boenf en aspic. Jambon de York. Chaudfroid de volaille Portugaise. Mauviettes farcies A la Perigord. Ballotines A la Renaissance. Mayonnaise de homard. Chaudfroid de cailles en Bellevue Asperges A la Normande. Sandwiches varies. Gel6es. Bavaroise. Patisserie. Mac6doine de fruits. Savarin au Curasao. Ponding glace.377 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION BALL SUPPER MENUS—(contmved). /l&cnu Cm Semper. POTAGE. Consomme claire. ENTREES CHATJDES. Cotelettes d’agneau aux pois. Poulets rotis au cresson. ENTREES EROIDES. Aspic de filets de soles. Chaudfroid de cailles 9, la Royale. Cremes de volaille aux truffes. Chaudfroid de volaille. Poulets a la gelee. Petits, pains it la Framjaise. Langue it l’ecarlate. Medaillons de truite it la Russe. C'aisses de mauviettes it l'epicurienue. Tomates it la Florentine. CEufs it la Maximilien. Aspic de foie gras en Bellevue. Sandwiches varies. RELEVES PROIDS. Saumon sur gondole it la Venitienne. Poulardes A, la Prince de Galles sur socle. Filets de bceuf it la Toscane. Galantines de volaille it la Urbaine Dubois. PIECES MONTEES. Napolitains decores. Brioche Parisienne. Meringue Suisse. Baba it la Polonaise. Gateau Breton decore. Giiteau millefeuilles. ENTREMETS. Gel6es. Macedoine de fruits. Charlotte Russe aux fraises. Pave 'ferollion. Bavaroise it la vanille et cafe. Gateau Vert-Vert. Giiteau Jamaique. PATISSERIE VARIEE. Fanchonnettes. Puits d’amour. Petits Nana. Mirlitmns. Bonnes-bouches Frascati. Tartelettes de fraises. Gil-Blas. Nonpareil.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 8 BALL SUPPER MENUS—{continued). /Ifoenu <Mt Soitper. CHAUD. Consomme aux pointes cl’asperges. Cotelettes panees aux pois. FBOID. Escalopes de saumon en mayonnaise. Kari de crevettes. Salades de homard. Cailles a la Strasbourg. Petites cremes de volaille aux truffes. Cbaudfroid de poulets. Foie gras en aspic. Cotelettes la Zingarat. Sandwiches & la Chesterfield. Poulets rotis decoupes. Jambon et langue. Galantine A la Perigord. Salades de tomates. Pate de gibier. Chapon a l’ecarlate. Macedoine de fruits en gelee. Chartreuses aux peches. Bavaroise a la vanille. Savarin au kirsch. Patisserie. Fraises et creme.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 879 BUFFET ET SOUPEB, CHAUD. (400 Couverts). SERVICE CHAUD. Consomme en tasses. Terrapins a la Maryland. Croquettes de chapons aux truffes. Huitres a la poulette. Rillettes aux champignons frais. Canards canvas-back la gelee de groseille. SERVICE FROID. Darne de saumon a la moderne. Homards it la Russe. Salade de homards a l’Americaine. Rate de foie gras de Strasbourg. Pate de faisans a la Perigord. Aspic de mauviettes en Bellevue. Salade Russe. Sandwiches varies. Canapes Polonaises. SUCRES. Gel6e it la Macedoine. Mousse au cafe. Bavaroise aux pommes. Corbeille de glaces assorties. Gateau Malakoff. Dessert. Fruits. Chocolate. Cafe. The. Punch. Limonade.380 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY DESSERT. BUFFET ET SOUPER CHAUD—(continued) POISSON. Saumon A la mayonnaise. Saumon si la Norvegienne. Galantine d’anguilles a la Windsor. Mayonnaise de homards. ENTREES EROIDES. Cotelettes d’agneau A, la Russe. Cailles en aspic a la Pavisienne. Pain de volaille it l’lmperiale. Foie gras en aspic. Cailles en caisse. Ortolans en caisses. Mauviettes en caisses. GROSSES PIECES. Dindon roti a l’lmperiale. Dindon farci en aspic a la Versailles. Galantine de chapon it la Frangaise. Pdt6 de gibier 4 la Frangaise. Roulade de boeuf 4 l’epicurienne. Jambon de Cumberland. Langue de boeuf garnie. Poulet roti aux cressons. ENTREMETS. Nougat la Chantilly. Meringues a la Victoria. Chartreuse de fruit. Gelee au Punch. Gelee it 1’Ananas. Creme de framboises. Creme d’orange. Suedoise d’abricots. Fanchonnettes. Genoise glacec. Patisserise Fran^aises. Compote d’oranges. Compote de poires. Glaces.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 381 BUFFET ET SOUPER OHAUD—(continued). dbenu. GROSSES PIECES FROIDES. Tete de sanglier it la St. Hubert. Darnes de saumon it l’Alg6rienne. Galantine de volaille it la Victoire. Poularde a l’Ecossaise. Buisson de homards en coquillage. Pates de faisans it l’ancienne. PIECES MONTEES. Tronc d’arbre it la Voli&re. Gerbe de ble it la printaniere. Chalet Suisse. Baba Polonaise. Gitteau Breton. ENTREES FROIDES. Chaudfroid de mauviettes en mandarine. Petites timbales de foie gras it la Lucullus. Zephire de volaille it la Venitienne. Chartreuse de filets de sole A, la chiitclaine. Mayonnaise de turbot it la Bagration. Aspic de langouste en Bellevue. Langue it l’ecarlate. Brawn it l’Anglaise. Jambon en gel6e. Rajons decoupes. Salade de saison. ENTREMETS. Chartreuse d’ananas it la Bourdaloue. Pain d’abricots A, la Orl6ans. Gelee aux liqueurs. Macedoine de fruits. Petits gateaux Portugais. Dames d’honneur. Choux grilles A la Chantilly. Petits fours varies. Petites caisses Napolitaines.882 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY BALL SIJPPBB MENUS. BALL SUPPER. FISH. Oyster patties. Mayonnaise of salmon. Smelts & la Napoleon III. Dressed crab, Parisian style. Lobster salad. Crawfish salad, Chambord style. Fillets of red mullet in aspic, decorated with crayfish. MEATS. Roast beef. Braised turkey. Fillets of fowl in snow. Fillets of ducks, Sultan fashion. Turkey in the Chatswortk style. Pigeons in the Sefton fashion. Game pies. Larks in the Parisian style. Grouse Salad. Sandwiches. Pistachio cream. Maraschino cream. Orange cream. Jellies. Cakes. Fruits. Wines, &c. SOUPER DU BAL. POISSONS. Pates des huitres. Mayonnaise de saumon. Eperlans a la Napoleon III. Crabe it la Paris. Salade de homard. Salade de langouste a la Chambord. Filets de rougets en aspic, garnis aux ecrevisses. VIANDES. Rosbif it l’Anglaise. Dinde braise. Filets a la neige. Filets it la Sultan. Dindon a, la Chatsworth. Pigeon it la Sefton. Pates de gibier. Mauviettes 4 la Parisieune. Salade de gelinotte. Sandwiches. Creme de pistache. Creme de marasquin. Creme d’oranges. Gelees. Gateaux. Fruits. Vins, &c.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 883 BALL SUPPER MENU S—{continued). SOUPER DU BAL. SERVICE CHATTD. Consomme en tasse. Champignons frais sur crofttes. Petites mousses de jambon, sauce Champagne. Aspic de crevettes. • Pigeonneaux truffles. Becassines au cresson. Coqnilles d’huitres. SERVICE EROID. (Buffet). Pate de foie gras en croute. Galantine de faisans sur socle. Chaudfroid de mnuviettes en Bellevue. Saumon de Canada a la Tartare. Mayonnaise de volaille. Mayonnaise de homards. Sandwiches assortis. DESSERT. Gelee au Madere. Bavarois rubanes. Glaces de fantaisie. Biscuits glaces. Petits fours. Fruits. Cafe. SOUPER DU BAL. F ROI D (Buffet). Saumon garni, sauce verte. Homard, sauce remoulade. Filet de bceuf it la Parisienne, Galantine de chapons. Quartier d’agneau, sauce menthe. Boeuf a la gelee. Poulardes roties. Jambon et langue. Pate de faisans it la Perigord. Sandwiches assortis. Salade Russe. Babas au rhum. Gateaux Bretons. Gelee macedoine aux fruits. Bavarois panacMs. Biscuits Punch. Cornets aux pistaches. Croque-en-bouche duchesse. CHAUD (Petites tables). Consomme aux pointes d’asperges. Homard it l’Americaine. Noisettes d’agneau aux petits pois. FROID. Darne de saumon aux concombres. Salade de homard. Pate de faisans it l’aspic. Poulet, langue et jambon. Galantine de chapons. Salade Italienne. Patisserie variee. Biscuits glacis. Gelee macedoine aux fruits. Charlotte Russe. Glace marbree. Soupe it l’oignon.384 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY COLD COLLATION MENUS. IMHEUNTIT. POTAGES. Consomme cle volaille. . Cr&me de riz. GROSSES PIECES. Pains Isabella a la vicomtesse. Galantine de dinde truffee. Pat6s de gibiers A la Richelieu. Poulets et langues 4 la Royale. Hure de sanglier en galantine. Huitres. Huitres. Membres de dinde A. la Diable. ENTREES FROIDES. Supreme de ris de veau trade. Mauviettes farcies aux chataignes. Chaudfroid de canetons aux pois verts. Cascades d’ortolans en galantine. Ballotines de gibiers en corbeilles. Escalopes de foies gras de Strasbourg. Cotelettes d’agnean a la Provengale. Chaudfroid de faisans a la Talleyrand. Pyramides de volaille A, l’ecarlate. Bonnes-bouches A la Careme. Croustades de gibiers A l’Allemande. Terrines de foies gras de Strasbourg. Petits pates A la Reine. Tourbans de homards en Bellevue. Aspics d’ecrevisses A la gelee. Chartreuses aux huitres en Tartare. Crabes A la maitre d’hotel. Salades de homards. Rougets A la Hollandaise. Marinades de saumons aux cressons. Saumons en aspic et en mayonnaise. Sandwiches de foies gras, d’anchois, &c.385 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION RELEVES. Dindes roties aux marrons. Gibiers rotis. Galantines de cliapons. Jambons braises au vin de Champagne. Langues de boeuf il 1’ecarlate. Galantines de veau. Boeuf it l’Anglaise. Poulets rot is aux cressons. Bond de boeuf garni. GROSSES PIECES DE PATISSERIE- Corbeilles garnies avec bonbons de Paris. Gateaux montes aux coupes. Gradins aux biscuits ornes. Gateaux de Savarin it la liqueur. Croque-en-bouches 4 l’ltalienne. Fondants d’amour en croqnante. ENTREMETS. Nougats de Beine-Claudes. Petits meringues au sucre file. Pains d’oranges it l’lmperatrice. Macedoines de fruits. Bavaroises 4 la vanille. Charlottes it la Busse. Souffles it la Montmorency. Gelees au marasquin. Croquettes de Genoise en surprise. Creme aux fraises. SuMoises de poires it la Duchesse. Gateaux Sefton it la Chantilly. Gelees panachees au rhum. Compote d’ananas. Compotes d’oranges. Petits fours varies glaces. rafraIchissements. Creme it la vanille glacee. L’eau d’ananas glacee. Creme aux fraises glacee. L’eau d’oranges glacee. Cafe glace. Th6 et biscuits, &c.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 38G COLD COLLATION MENUS—(continued). Oysters. Stuffed olives. Smoked salmon. Soles in cream. Aspic of lobster. Soused mackerel. Lobster salad. Anchovy salad. Italian salad. HOT ENTREES. Broiled chicken. Salmi of wood pigeon. COLD ENTREES. Chaudfroid of chicken. Galantine of veal. Pigeons stuffed with olives in savoury jelly. Sweetbread patties. Ducklings. SIDE-BOARD. Roast beef with horseradish cream. Lamb and mint sauce. Roast fowls. Braised tongues. Salads. Beefsteak and kidney pies. Veal and ham pies. Westphalia, ham. Pastries. Creams. Orange jelly. Fruits. Gateaux. Ices. Cafti noir.387 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION COLD COLLATION MENUS—(continued). Lobster salads. Pyramids of prawns. Dressed crabs. Mayonnaise of salmon. Fillets of sole in savoury jelly. Salmon it la Chambord. Foies gras in savoury jelly. Lamb cutlets, Princesse style. Game pies. Pigeon pies. Turkeys, Royal style. Pheasants. Partridges. Galantines of veal. Roast lamb. Boiled round of beef. Roast chicken. Chickens it la Bellevue. Hams. Pressed beef. Tongues. Tipsy cakes. Cheesecakes. Gateaux Napoli tains. Fruit jellies. Wine jellies. Crfeme it la vanille. Charlotte Russe. Meringues with cream. French pastry. DESSERT. Grapes. Pines. Apples. Pears. Lemon water ice. Strawberry cream ice.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 388 TYPICAL AMERICAN MENUS. BREAKFAST. Sliced oranges. Oatmeal. Sugar and cream. Smothered beef. Saratoga chips. Cerealine griddle cakes. Coffee. LUNCH. Broiled lobster. Parker House rolls. Watercress. Radishes. Cheese ramakins. Tea. DINNER. Purde of vegetables without meat. Stuffed breast of veal. Brown sauce. Plain boiled potatoes. Stewed tomatoes. Browned sweet potatoes. Lettuce salad. French dressing. Cheese straws. Apple snow. Coffee.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 389 AN AMERICAN SUNDAY DINNER. iMiiEnNrTT- Mock turtle. Consomme, with chicken tillets. Boiled trout, cream sauce. Fillet of sole, walnut sauce. Fried perch, Tartar sauce. Dressed lettuce. Radishes. Lamb’s tongue. Boiled Philadelphia capon. Oyster sauce. Cucumber. Sliced tomatoes. Sirloin of beef, dish gravy. Tame duck, apple jelly'. Spring lamb, mint sauce. Cincinnati ham, Champagne sauce. Chicken croquettes, supreme sauce. Sweetbreads, financiere. Pear fritters with maraschino. Devilled lobsters, Roman punch. Mashed potatoes. New string beans. Lima beans. Sweet potatoes. Asparagus. Bermuda onions. Green peas. Sirloin beef. Ham. Tongue. Turkey. Lobster salad. Vegetable salad. Snow pudding. Whipped cream. Lemon pie. Washington pie. Cream pie. Vanilla ice cream. Chocolate ice cream. Fancy cake. Nuts. Raisins. Oranges. Macaroons. Charlotte Russe. Bananas. American cheese. Frozen pudding. Roquefort cheese. Lady fingers. Crackers. Wine jelly'. Strawberries and cream. Olives. Honey in comb. Tea. Cocoa. Coffee.390 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ECLECTIC CLUB, NEW YORK. DINNER GIVEN AT THE HOTEL DAM. MENU 3DTT DINER. January 6, 1887. HUITRES. Blue points, half shells. POT AGES. Mock Turtle. Celery. Appetissant.s. Olives. Palma fina Sherry. POISSON. Boiled striped bass, sauce Hollandaise. Parisian potatoes. RELEVES. Lamb Chops, sautes it la Macedoine. Mashed potatoes au gratin. Asparagus. ROTI. Roast grouse, English bread sauce. Ruinart et Marlzet sec. SALADE. Lettuce. Chicory. DESSERT Pudding a la Reine. FROMAGE. English. Brie. Americau. FRUITS VARIES. Grapes. Pears. Bananas. Cafe. 50 Covers at 20s. per head, inclusive of Wines.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 891 SPECIMEN MENUS OF AMERICAN PRIVATE DINNERS. DMIEICTTT 3DXJ ZDIICTIEE,. New York, 7 Janvier, 1891. Blue points en coquilles. POTAGES. Bisque d’ecrevisses. Tortue ilia Fran§aise. HORS-D'CEUVRE. Petites cronstades it la Saint-Hubert. POISSONS. • Sheep’s-head it la Chambord. Timbales de truites Normande. Pomme de terre croquettes. Salade de concombres. RELEVES. Selle de venaison, sauce poivrade. Puree de marrons. entree's. Timbales de volaille Renaissance. Petits pois il l’Anglaise. Terrapine A la Maryland. Chaudfroid de mauviettes en cerises. Punch A, l’lmperiale. ROTS. Canvas-back ducks au cresson. Cailles sur croustades. Salade de c61eri mayonnaise. ENTREMETS. - Charlottes Doria. Brouettes de peches glac6es. Petits fours. Fruits. Cafe.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 392 Cafe. AMERICAN PRIVATE DINNERS—(cent.). MEUIJ 3DTJ ID I 2STZEIE?/. New York, Mars 19, 1891. Huitres (blue point). Potage: tortue claire. Petites bouchees aux crabes d’hultres. Bass rayee au court-bouillon, sauces Genevoise et Hollandaise. Petites timbales a la Talleyrand. Terrapin A la Maryland. Selle de mouton it l’Anglaise. Laitnes farcies. Pommes de terre Duchesse. Chaudfroid de perdreaux 4 la gelee. Punch it l’lmperiale. Canvas-back ducks rotis. Croquettes de hominy. Jambon de Yirginie roti. Salades de tomates 4 la Russe. Charlotte de gaufres garnie de petites glaces. Petits fours assortis. Fruits glac6s. Dessert. Cafe. TvrDEHSTTT HD IT DIUBB. New York, Mai 12, 1891. Huitres vertes. Potage, tortue claire Bisque d’ecrevisses. Homard it la Newburgh. Ballotines de poularde Saint-Germain. Selle d’agneau it la Dubarry. Celeris braises. Pommes Bellevue. Petits aspics de foie gras. Rot: Perdreaux au cresson. Salade de chicoree. Canvas-back ducks rotis. Croquettes de hominy. Amandes salees. Charrettes en sucre, garnies de fruits en glace. Giiteaux. Petits fours. Dessert.393 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION Caf6. AMERICAN PRIVATE DINNERS—(cont.). MENU DU DINER. SERVICE A LA RUSSE. Newport, Juin 3, 1891. 0 POTAGES. Tortue claire l’Anglaise. Pur6e i\ la Heine. HORSD'CEUVRES. Varies. Croustade Suissesse. ’ ,.j Canape la Russe. POISSONS. Filets de bass la Joinville. Pommes Brabant. Concombres. RELEVES. Selle d’agneau, sauce menthe. Champignons et tomates farcis. ENTREES. Mousse & la Garfield. Pate de foie gras en croute. ROTS. Woodcocks sur canapes. Jambon de la Virginie. Mayonnaise de celeri. Cheese straws. ENTREMETS. Glace de fantaisie. Baba au punch. Petits fours. Fruits394 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY A SUNDAY MENU AT SARATOGA SPRINGS. NIRlTsrTT. Adelphi Hotel, December 1890. Mock turtle k l’Anglaise. , Consoinm6 de volaille with rice. Soft-shell crabs, fried, it l’Anglaise. Fillet of trout it la Chambord. Duchesse potatoes. Celery. Cucumbers. Croustade 4 la Parisienne. Ham. Tongue. Lamb. Beef. Corned Beef. Chicken. Pig’s feet. Potato salad. Beef tongue with greens. Chicken with pork. Mutton, caper sauce. Sweetbread braise, it la Montpensier. Stuffed fresh tomatoes it la Princesse. Lamb fries, breaded, sauce Tartare. Veal cutlet saut6 it la Bordelaise. Queen fritters, wine sauce. Vei’mont turkey, giblet sauce. Tame duck, apple sauce. Bibs of beef. Roman Punch.. Mixed pickles. Chili sauce. English mustard. Chow-chow. Worcestershire sauce. Tomato catsup, anchovy sauce. French mustard. Queen olives. Sliced tomatoes. Lettuce. New potatoes. Mashed potatoes. Stewed tomatoes. New peas. New beets. Spinach. New squash. Bermuda onions. Boiled rice. Pudding royal, brandy sauce. Apple pie. Lemon pie. Cocoanut pie. Jelly cake. Fancy cake. Fancy macaroons. Pound cake. Madeira wine jelly. Whipped cream. Marasquin ice cream. Pistache ice cream. Bananas. Oranges. Pecan nuts. English walnuts. Filberts. English dairy cheese. Dairy cheese. Iced watermelon. Almonds. Pineapple cheese. Milk and cream from our Walnut Hill Farm..MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 395 . CHRISTMAS DINNER MENU. Given at the Ebbitt House, Washington, D.C. JSill of dfare. Pousse-cafA Blue points. , Shrewsburys. Tobasco sauce. Horseradish. Limes. Green turtle. St. Julien. Soyer’s relish. Celery. Caselets of oyster crabs. Watercress salad. Anchovy toast. Cutlets of English sole. Shrimp sauce. Calcutta soy. Iced cucumbers. Lake Erie whitefish, broiled. Chili sauce. Potato chips. Supreme of capon. Green peas. Hominy croquettes. Fillet of prime Xmas beef. Fresh mushrooms. String beans. Potato croquettes. Wild turkey, stuffed with chestnuts. Damson jelly. Artichokes. Sweet potato fritters. Stewed terrapin, Ebbitt House style. Madeira wine wafers. Sweetbreads, larded. Sultana sauce. Asparagus. Spinach. Outlets of quails, beechnut dressing. Guava jelly. Lamb fries. Bombay chutney. Champagne punch. Stuffed olives. Canvas-back ducks. Currant jelly. Fried hominy. Frozen celery. English gold pheasants, bread sauce. Scotch marmalade. Lettuce salad. Yellow-leg plover. Cranberry jelly. Season salad. Tutti frutti. Biscuits glaces. Florida orange jelly. Swiss cream in shells. Charlotte Russe. Harlequin fruit sorbet. Assorted cakes. Florida oranges. Bananas. Tokio grapes. Malaga grapes. California Duchess pears. Confectionery. Bonbons. Coffee. Cognac. Liqueurs. Stilton. Neufchatel.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 396 Delmonico’s Restaurant, New York. Le 18 Novembre, 1890. jflfcenu. Huitres. POTAGES. A la Daumont. Tortue verte, claire. HORSD’CEUVRE. Timbales a la Dumas. RELEVES. Bass rayee la Joinville. Pomraes de terre foudantes. ^ Filets de boeuf, Montebello. Tomates la Tr6vise. ENTREES. Chapons a la Chevreuse. Petits pois it la Parisienne. Terrapine a la Baltimore. Sorbet Regence. ROT3. Canvas-back duck. Perdreaux. FROID. Terrine de foie gras it la gelee. Salade de laitue. ENTREMETS DE DOUCEUR. Peches la Conde. Gelce aux oranges. Gaufres bavaroises. PIECES MONTEES. Glace de fantaisie. Fruits. Petits fours. Caf6.397 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION A SERIES OF TYPICAL MENUS AS SERYED ON BOARD SHIP ON THE TRANSATLANTIC LINES. Sunday, August 9, 1891. BREAKFAST. FISH. Stewed eels. Halibut steak ;i la creme. Fried fresh haddock. Broiled salt mackerel. HOT DISHES. Porterhouse steak. Broiled Cumberland ham. Vegetable stew. Lamb’s fry with tomatoes. Poached, boiled, fried, and scrambled eggs. Broiled bacon. Fried calf’s haslets. Mutton chops. Bump steak with mushrooms. Omelette with fine herbs. Omelettes, plain and sweet. Boiled, mashed, and fried potatoes. Scotch oatmeal cake. Vienna bread. Soda scones. Anchovy toast. Buckwheat cakes with maple or golden syrup. Bice croquettes. Boiled hominy. Oatmeal porridge. COLD DISHES. Boiled ham. Ox tongue. Corned beef. Boast haunch of mutton. Boast ribs of beef. Head cheese. Corned leg of pork. Watercress. Oranges. Water melons. Preserves. Tea. Coffee. Cocoa.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 398 ' i MENUS ON BOARD SHIP—(continued). LUNCHEON. Julienne soup. Beef tea. Chicken broth. PHt6 de foie gras truffe. Anchovies. Russian caviare. Sardines. HOT Roast haunch of mutton, onion sauce. Beef and potato pie. Mashed potatoes. Baked potatoes, plain and sweet. Stewed prunes. Baked apples. Boiled rice. COLD. Stewed veal. Corned beef. Calf’s head. Corned leg of pork. Boiled chicken. Head cheese. Ox tongue. Boiled ham. Roast mutton. Roast beef. Queenstown lettuce. Pickled beets. CHEESE. Stilton. Berkeley. Gorgonzola. Cheshire. DESSERT. Water melons. Gooseberries. Almonds and raisins. Roast peanuts. Oranges. Brazil nuts. Chocolate ice cream. Tea. Coffee.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 399 MENUS ON BOARD SHIP—(continued'). DINNER. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Norwegian anchovies. Caviare on toast. SOUP. Green turtle. Cream of rice la Victoria. FISH. Salmon h la Tartare. ENTREES. Calf’s feet a la Jarclini&re. Filet de bceuf aux fines herbes. Pigeon pie. JOINTS. Spring lamb, mint sauce. Beef with Yorkshire pudding. Boiled leg of mutton 4 l’Anglaise. Roast goslings, apple sauce. Sucking pig a la Napolitaine. Corned pork with baked beans. VEGETABLES. Green corn. Yellow squash. Chipped sweet potatoes. Boiled and mashed potatoes. Croquette potatoes. Boiled rice. RELEVE. Broiled spring chicken with asparagus. ENTREMETS. Charlotte Russe. Swiss apple tart. Sweet sandwiches. Banbury cakes. Plum pudding, brandy sauce. Cerealine pudding. SALAD. Queenstown lettuce. CHEESE. Gorgonzola. Cheshire. Stilton. Berkeley. DESSERT. Gooseberries. Bananas. Pineapples. Filberts. French prunes. Figs. Walnuts. Tea. Coffee.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 400 MENUS ON BOARD SHIP—{continued). Tlie following bills of fare, served at sea between Suez and Aden, form an average criterion of the ordinary business; such bemg, of course, gradually altered according to the climatic changes entailed by a voyage to or from the Antipodes :— FIRST SALOON. -BREAKFAST. Porridge. Finnon haddocks. Rump steak and olives. Hashed mutton and walnuts. Grilled ham and mashed potatoes. Omelette. Curry and rice. Cold round of beef. LUNCHEON. Galantine of turkey. Ham. Collared head. Corned brisket of beef. Lobster mayonnaise. Roast shoulder of lamb, mint sauce. Veal and ham pie. Baked potatoes. Bath buns. Iced apricots. DINNER. SOUP. Brunoise. FISH. Cabillaud, sauce Hollandaise. JOINT. Roast haunch of mutton, red currant jelly. ENTREES. Grenadins de veau aux navets. Choux-fleurs a la crime, POULTRY. Roast turkey and ham. Curry. Kabobs. PASTRY. Nesselrode pnddiDg. Compote of cherries. Naples biscuits. CHILDREN’S DINNER MENU. Roast beef, Yorkshire pudding. Boiled fowl and tongue. Curry and rice. Vermicelli pudding. Compote of pears.401 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION MENUS ON BOARD SHIP—(continued). MENU OF A PRIVATE LUNCHEON AND DINNER SERVED ON BOARD. /l&enu. PRIVATE LUNCHEON. Chaud. Consomme en tasse. Homard A l’Americaine. Champignons sur toast. Tournedos A la Milanaise. I’ommes de terre Parisienne. Corn au gratin. Haricots verts sautes. Spring chicken A la Maryland. Perdreaux rotis cresson. Froid. Hors-d’oeuvres: Chow-chow, Cucumber pickles, Olives, Chestnuts, Caviar, Anchois. Striped bass A la Russe. Homard A la Frangaise. Jambon de Virginie. Roast beef A l’Anglaise. Dindonneau nouveau. Cranberry sauce. Aspic de foie gras en bellevue. Chicken salad. Salade Italienne. Baba glace. Gateau Montmorency. Glaces assorties. Petits gateaux. Dessert. Menu. DINER. Turtle. Salmon. Sole. Chicken salad. Sweetbreads. Saddle of mutton. Ham and salad. Escaloped crab. Pat6 de foie gras. Pudding A la St. George. Creams. Jellies Ice.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 402 SELECTION OF MENUS OF PUBLIC AND PRIYATE LUNCHEONS, DINNERS, & SUPPERS. DINNER Given to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, K.G., in the Middle Temple, on November 25, 1887. ME2STU. PREMIER SERVICE. Huitres. POTAGES. Tortue liee. Tortue claire. POISSONS. Turbots, sauce homard. Filets de soles la Normande. ENTRIES. Ris de veau tl la financiere en caisses. Filets de faisans si la Perigord. RELEV&S. Dindons braises, sauce aux marrons. Jarabons brais6s. Langue de boeuf. Selle de mouton de Galles. SECOND SER VICE. r6ti. B6casses. Becassines. Perdrix. ENTREMETS. Crimes d’Abricots. Genoises d6cor£es. RKLEVfcS. Biscuits glac6s. Plombiferes de millefruits glacis. Pailles de fromage.403 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION SELECTION OF MENU S—{continued). SUTFIPIEIR, At the Ball given by His Highness the Gaikwar of Baroda, at the Royal Pavilion, Brighton, Decem- ber 12, 1887. POTAGE. Printanier. POISSONS. Saumon et concotnbres. Saumon en aspic. Sautnonenmayonnaise. Homardsenaspic. Homard au naturel. ENTRIES FROIDES. Mauviettes aux truffes. Cotelettes d’agneau en aspic. Cotelettes de volaille en aspic. Cotelettes de homards glacees. Cronstades de saroelles. Croustades de mauviettes farcies. (Eufs it 1’Orientale. Sandwiches d’anchois. Sandwiches de jambon. RELEVES FROIDS. Dindes farcies aux truffes. Patgs de gibier. Pates de foies gras. Poulets rotis decoupes, langues de bceuf. Pouiets bechamel aux petits pois. Faisans rotis. Langues de bceuf. Salades de homard. Jambons de York. Perdreaux rotis. ENTREMETS. Gateaux de Savoie. Gateaux Genevois. Petit s gateaux aux liqueurs. Gelees varies. C'reme d’abricols. Creme de fraises. Boudins it la Reine. Charlotte Russe. FRUITS. Ananas. Raisins. Oranges. Mandarines. GRACES. Fraise. Citron. Vanille. Bouchfies aux hultres X la Diable. 20PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 404 SELECTION OF MENUS—(continued). STTIFIFIEIR, At the Ball given by Sir Alfred Jodrell, Bart., High Sheriff of Norfolk, in St. Andrew’s Hall, Norwich, November 24, 1888. POTAGES. Consomme it la Dubois. Crkme 4 la Russe. GROSSES PIECES. Turbots farcis a la mayonnaise. P&te de gibier it la Valengay. Pdte it la Pompadour. Hure de sanglier 4 la chasseur. Dindes farcies it la Montmorency. Dinde en galantine aux truffes. Poulet bechamel et langue 4 la Royale. Chapons decoupes sur socles itl’aspic. Langues de bceuf a la gelee. Faisans bardes rotis. Jambon it la Portnall. Bceuf it la Marie. ENTRIES FROIDES. Cotelettes d’agneau braisees, sauce piquante. Petites timbales de foies gras it lTmperiale. Chaudfroid de perdrix. Ris de veau it la Diable. Bonnes-bouches d’huitres it la Waldteufel. Croutes de homard k la Florentine. ENTREMETS. Geliie au parfait d’amour. Gelee au punch. Gelee it l’Alexandra en caisses. Bavarois au cafe. Petites corbeilles de fromage au chocolat. Chartreuses de peches au marasquin. Compotes d’abricots 4 la Conti. Petits souffl6s de noix de coco 4 la vanille. Chaumieres aux meringues. Cupidons avec meringues de fruits Gateau it la forteresse. G&teau it la Napolitaine. Trifles it la Windsor. BONBONS. Huitres d’amandes k la vanille. Petits fours an liqueur. Champignons au chocolat. Pommes de terre au curaqao ~ Marrons glaces. Bouquets de fleurs glaces. DESSERT405 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION THE UNITED LAW CLERKS’ SOCIETY, 57th ANNIVERSARY FESTIVAL. Wednesday, June 26, 1889. MENU. Tortue claire. Creme de laitues. Whitebait, plain and devilled. Saumon, sauce mousseline. Filets de soles A la Spiers. IIis de veau aux pointes d’asperges. ■ Chaudfroid de poulet. Quartier d’agneau. Filet de bceuf & la Richelieu. Pommes rissolees. Canetons d’Aylesbury. Petits pois. Salade. Gateau Quillet. Blancmanges. Gelees. Parfait glace la printani&re.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 406 HONOURABLE SOCIETY OF THE INNER TEMPLE, London : Wednesday, July 10, 18,SO. MENU. Hors-d’oeuvre : Crevettes an naturel. Tortue claire. Tortue liee. Ailerons de tortue. Trnites a la Cliambord. Turbots, sauce Hollandaise. Blanchailles. Ris de veau pique ft la Fran raise. Filets mignons. Cbandfroid & la Rossini. Hanche de venaison aux haricots verts. Quartier d’agneau froid. Salade. .Tambon braise aux ffeves de marais. Chapons farcis a la Perigord. Canetons et cailles. Crabe garnie. Petits pois a l’Anglaise. Gelees aux fruits. Ponding la Cerito, froid. Souffl6s glac6s au liqueur. (.'routes aux ancliois et jambon.407 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF ENGLAND, ANNUAL BANQUET. July 21, 1889. ‘ MENU. POTAGE. Tortue. POISSONS. Whitebait. Filets de John Dory, sauce Hollandaise. Truite it la Beauchamp. ENTREES. Cremes de volaille en aspic it la Victoria. Epigrammes de ris de veau a la Bultane. Aspics de foie gras. RELEVES. Hanches.de venaison. Selles de mouton. Jambons braises. ROTI. Canetons. Dindonneaux. ENTREMETS. Gelee d’ananas. .Bavaroise aux fruits. Meringues it la Fran9aise. Compote aux conserves. Pouding glace. Croutes aux anchois.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 408 FAREWELL BANQUET TO MR. AND MRS. KENDAL. London : July 16, 1889. MENU. Hors-d’oeuvres. Clear turtle au Madere. Consomme il la fermiere. Tron§ons de saumon a la Francfort. Filets de sole au vin blanc. Whitebait, naturel et a la Diable. Mousse de volaille aux truffes. Chaudfroid de pigeons a la bordelaise. Selle de mouton 4 la broche. Jambon A l’aspic. Pommes de terre chateau. Petits pois A la Fran9aise. Salade a l’Allemande. Sorbet au Champagne. Cailles de vignes au cresson. Salade de laitues a la creme. Baba A la Chantilly, sauce framboise. Gelee aux peches. Gateau royal. Croutes au fromage. P.uisson de glace Napolitaine. Petites gaufrettes. Dessert. Cafe noir.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 409 ANNUAL MANSION HOUSE BANQUET. London: June 17, 1890. MENU. POTAGES. Tortue claire. Tortue li6e. POISSONS. John Dory, sauce ciipres. Truite, sauce Italienne. ENTREES. Petites caisses i\ la Toulouse. Turban oriental la Yenise. RELEVES. Selle de mouton. Hanche de venaison. Jambon braise. Poulardes il la Zingarat. Pintades. Canetons. ENTREMETS. Crevettes en aspic. Charlotte h la Polonaise. Compote de fruits. Gel£e a, la Dantzic. Meringues a la vanille. Pouding glace. REGIMENTAL BANQUET. Dublin : October 3, 1890. MENU. Soujjs. Italian clear. Tomato. Fish. Crimped cod and oyster sauce. Filleted soles and shrimp sauce. Entrees. Veal cutlets. Oyster patties. Removes. Saddles of mutton. Sirloin of beef and horseradish), sauce. Boiled turkeys and tongue with celery sauce. Roast ducks. Roast geese. Boiled fowls. York ham. Game. Hares. Pheasants. Grouse. Sweets. Canary puddings with sherry sauce. Gooseberry tarts. Cup custards. Apricot chartreuse. Royal trifle.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 410 MENU OF A MASONIC BANQUET. IMTIETsTUL Oysters. SOUP Consomme Macedoine a la Royale. Thick mock turtle. FISH. Boiled turbot, lobster sauce. Red mullets, Italian sauce. ENTREES. Fillets of pigeons & la Duxelle. Sweetbreads a la Toulouse. Lamb cutlets jardiniere. Asparagus en branches. JOINTS. Sirloin of beef. Saddle of mutton. Boiled turkey, celery sauce. York ham. Roast chickens. Ducklings. GAME. Pheasants. Grouse. Wild ducks. Sardines on toast. SWEETS. Wine jellies. Vanilla cream. Compote of apricots. Prunes. Compote of pineapple. Pastry. ICE. Pudding ;i la Nesselrode. DESSERT. English pineapples Grapes, &c.411 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION LIST OF TOASTS. The Queen—Patron of the Craft. “ The God of Heaven both now and ever bless her.’’ Henry VII1. The Most Worshipful the G.M. of England and the Grand Lodge. “The Rightful Heir to England’s Throne.”—Henry IV. “ Ever beloved and loving may his rule be.”—Henry VIII The R.W. Prov. G.M., the W.D. Prov. G M., and the Prov. Grand Lodge. “ Thou wast installed in that high degree.”—Henry VI. “ The Deputy—a brother of your order.”—Henry IV. The W.M. “ The Master—’tis he indeed ! We find him a fit fellow.” Henry VIII. Sister Lodges and their W.M.s “ Our old and faithful friends, we are glad to see you.” Measure for Measure. The J.M. and P.M. of the Lodge. “ You have made good work, you and your apron men.” Coriolanus. The Charities. “ The quality of mercy is not strained : it is twice blessed; it blesseth him that gives and him that takes.”—Merchant of Venice. Visiting Brethren. “ You are welcome, my guests, and to you all good health.” Henry VIII. Officers of the Lodge. “ Be but duteous, and true preferment shall tender itself to thee.”—Cymbeline. The Tyler’s Toast. “ the Lord bless you; God prosper your affairs ! God send you peace.”—Henry IV.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 412 Cafe. Dessert. MENU OF THE BANQUET OFFERED TO THE GERMAN EMPEROR AND EMPRESS AT THE CRYSTAL PALACE. August 1891. HORS-D’CEIJVItES. Crevettes en buisson. Olives farcies. Anchois. POTAGE. Consomme aux quenelles. POISSONS. Turbot, sauce Hollandaise. Truite A la Norvegienne. Blanchailles. ENTREES. Chaudfroid de cailles A la Financiere. Cotelettes d’agneau aux pointes d’asperges. RE L EVE. Selle de mouton. Haricots verts. Salade. ROT. Poulets nouveaux. Jambon saute. Asperges froides au beurre fondu. ENTREMETS. Gelee mosa'ique. Charlotte aux peches Nougats A lTmperatrice. Mac6doine de fruits glaces. Souffle glac6 au gingembre.' Caviare.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 413 Dessert. LIBERAL UNION CLUB, LONDON. Wednesday, July SI, 1889. (THenu. Potage A la sante. Puree de levraut. Whitebait. Souchet de carrelets et saumon. Rissoles de homard. Petites soles frites. Boudins de merlans A la Danoise. Anguilles etuvees A la Bordelaise. Truite grillee, sauce A la Tartare. Rouge et noir. Saumon A la Norvegienne. Quartier d’agneau roti aux haricots verts. Canetons rotis et petits pois verts. Jambon grille A la diable et salad e de tomates. Gelee au vin. Dames d’honneur. Meringues A la crfeme. Pouding A la Nesselrode. Pailles de fromage.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 114 MENU OF A MONSTER DINNER Served at the Metropolitan Opera House, New York, February 1, 1887, On the occasion of the Twenty-first Anniversary of the “ Societe Culinaire Philanthropique.” POT A GE. Consomme a, la d’Orleans. HORS-D' CEUVRES. Olives. Jambon de Westphalie. Saucissons de Lyon. Cornichons. Celeri. Mayonnaise de volaille. Salade dehomard. • Huitres a la poulette. RELEVE Filet de boeuf aux champignons. Petits pois a la fram;aise. ENTREES. Saiumon a la Talleyrand. Aspic de langoustes a la russe. Pain de gibier en Bellevue. Groupe de perdreaux il la Mirabeau. Pate de volaille it la Parisienne. Cotelettes de pigeon a la Lucullus. Cassolettes de mauviettes it la Renaissance. Paupiettes de veau au gastronome. Langne debceuf historite. Estomacs de dindonneaux A l’ambassadrice. Supreme de canard au gourmet. Timbale de gelinottes a la Napolitaine. Chaudfroid de pluviers a la Ninon. Galantine de faisan a la Perigourdine. Pyramide de ballotines de volaille. Filet de bceuf 4 la Choisy. GROSSES PIECES. Grand pate de gibier sur socle. Quartier d’antilope it l’Africaine. Cotes de bceuf a l’anglaise. Chaudtroid varie ii la Diane. Voliere de perdreaux rouges. Bass raye it la Dieppoise. Bastion de gibier it l’ancienne. Coqs de bruyere it la Tyrolienne. Hure de sanglier au chasseur. Selle d’agneau it la Normandie. Cuissot de veau it la Bernoise. Cimier de chevreuil it la hongroise.415 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION FA XT A ISIES GULINA IRES. Le traineau d’Uncle Sam. Lesaumon licossais. Josephine. La fermeture de la chasse. Galantine de dinde a l’ananas. Cupidon sur galantine it l’abondance. Le saurnon, Bartholdi. Le saumon, Nautilus. Le casque orne de plumage. La defense du nid. Ballot ines de chapon it la Morizet sec. Le fort Indien. Le corbeau et le renard. La mare aus canards. Saumon it la Murray Hill. Le saumon, Puritain. Galantine en guitare ft la Frascuelo. Volii're de gibier it la moderne. Mercure. Saumon anachiste ft la course aux grenouilles. Galantine de gibier ;\ la St. Denis. Une mosaique. Le trophee du succds. Pain de gibier ft la Gilsey. La couronne de langues. Panier d’abondance. Le jambon, Arlequin. La tourde Babel. Expedition telegraphique. Buisson de cailles ft la Floride. Pate de gibier ft la Grande-Union. L’enlevement du couvent. La fierte de l’onde. Grande salade de homard. Tu me fais rire. Pate de foie gras a l’Auguste Michel. L’esclare grecque. Galantine de perdreaux it la Sinclair. La liberte nourrissant le monde. Bass it la Borgia. Chaudfroid de perdreaux it la Normandie. Park Avenue combinaison. Le coq sans plumes. Un buffet. Le dejeuner rustique. PIECES DE PATISSERIE. 1'ranee et Amerique. La fontaine monumentale. Les brioches de ’18. La lanterne antique. Maison projet de la S. C. P. Montagnard Ecossais. Une corne d’abondance. Le voltigeur Hollandais. La villa du jardin de roses. Corbeille Montmorency. Les differentes tjtapes du cuisinier. Chftlet Suisse. La famille Neerlandaise. La fontaine fantastique. Ruche en meringue. Le pole nord. Croquembouche Parisien. Le tromphe de Xeres. DESSERT, Macarons Hollandais. Biscuit it la vanille. Petits fours. Mendiants. Fruits assortis. Glaces fantaisies. Demi-tasse.416 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY A GRAND DINNER. The following is the copy of a Menu of a Dinner which was served to a party of twenty persons at a London hotel in the summer of 1888. The dinner was ordered with the most uncommon condition, viz. that it should not cost less than £500. The menu, it is needless to say, consisted of every delicacy that could be found in Europe. The dinner cards were artistically hand-painted. The wines were mostly from the cellars of the King of Bavaria, and included Chateau-Yquem, Creme de 1861; Waterloo Sherry, 1815; Liestenstein, 1831; Castle Cabinet Johannisberg, 1831; Chiiteau-Lafitte, Grand Yin, 1846; Bollinger, 1868; Imperial Tokay The Essence, 1841. G-ZR-AYdNTID ZMlZEZEsTTT. HORS-D’CEUVB.ES. CEufs de pluvier en aspic. Saumon fume. Petites sardines de Novege. Crevettes de Cherbourg. POTAGES. Tortue liee. Consomme Metternich. POISSONS. Truite du lac de Geneve, Cote d’Estoumel. Sauces Genevoise et diplomate, et Pommes nouvelles Hollandaise. Mousse de laitances de carpe, sauce riche. Friture de gougon de la Seine. ENTREES. Timbale de queues d’ecrevisses de l’Oder it la Bohemienne. Bastion de poulardes de Bresse it la d’Albufera. Selle d’agneau it 1’Agnes Sorel au Malvoisie. Punch it la marquise. Chaudfroid de supremes de cailles a la Moderne. ROTS. Caneton it la Rouennaise flanque d’ortolans de Boheme. Salade it la Russe et laitue aux ceufs de vanneau. LEGUMES. Asperges d’Argenteuil, sauce mousseline au beurre d’lsigny. Truffes du Pfirigord en serviette au Pommery Greno, 1874. ENTREMETS. Pudding souffle A la Washington. Suedoise de peches de Montreuil it la duchesse. Gateau Napolitain il l’orientale. Petits fours princesse. Bombes Nesselrode it l’ambassadrice. Petite V6nitienne. lioyan sur canap6.417 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION SOCIETY BANQUET Held at the WATERLOO HOTEL, EDINBURGH. 50 Covers, at £4, inclusive of Wines. Les Huitres. Caviar. Radis. (Montrachet le Guiclie.) Bouillabaisse a la provenc;ale (Poncbe glace). Croute au pot. Tortue A, l’Anglaise (Yino de Pasto). Cervelles de veau a la Yilleroi. Filets de sandre A la cardinal (de Berlin). (1868er Steinberger Cabinet.) Turbot, sauce d’homard. Filets de soles 4 la Dreux. Grives en petites caisses (1874er Jules Mumm). Boudins de perdreaux A la Richelieu. Poulet de Bresse. Salade. Filet de boeuf au jus d’orange. Quartier d’agneau, sauce mentbe. Pommes de terre nouvelles. Petits pois nouveaux. Jambon aux epinards, sauce Madere. Faisans. Pluviers d’or. Canards sauvages. Asperges. Celeri rave. Cepes A la bordelaise. Langoustes, sauce ravigote. (Curasao. Brandy. Kiimmel. Benedictine.) Pouding A la mousseline. Peches A la Yarin. Gelee au kirsch. (Chateau-Lafite 1864.) Petits gateaux bagatelles. Ananas A la Cingalese. (Amontillado finissimo.) Fromage glace A, la Figaro (Port 1824). Gnocchi au parmesan A, la Romaine. Dessert. Glaces. Eau de mandarines. CrAme de framboises.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 41B BANQUET Held at St. Stephen’s Club, London, February 13, 1884. POTAGE. Tortue claire liee. Pur6e d’asperges. POISSONS. Sa union a la Parisienne. • Filets cle sole & la Normande. Blanchailles ENTREES. Foie gras de Strasbourg aux pointes. Chartreuse de caille, P6rigueux. Chaudfroid de becassine a la Beaconsfield. RELEVES. Hanche de venaison. Haricots verts. Selle de mouton. Epinards. Quartier d’agneau. Petits pois. ROTIS Poulardes et canetons, salade Fran<;aise. Petits pois et pommes de terre nouvelles. Releve de Rotis. Aspic de hornard & la De la Rue. ENTREMETS. Abricots a la Conde. Pouding si la Nesselrode. Croute aux merluches. Croute aux laitances de harengs. Dessert glace. Orange water ice. Apricot ice.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 419 A PARLIAMENTARY DINNER. POTAGES. Broth of a Boy-cott. Tortue fausse. POISSONS. Brochet vorace it la Tenancier. Anguilles glissantes (sauce Parnell). ENTREES. Bifteks en lits-de-plancher. Ragout Irlandais. Vol-au-vent, Plan de Campagne. ROTS. Sucking pig, farci. Boar’s head it la M.P. Taureau Irlandais. VOLAILLES. Pigeons depouillgs a la Propri6taire. Tourterelles it la Ligue Nationale. Canards sauvages it la Presse Hibernaise. LEGUMES. Pommes de terre a la Murphy. ENTREMETS. Petits boulets A la Clair-de-lune. Pouding “ Coercion.” Pat-isseries vari6es. DESSERT. Pommes de Discorde. Oranges ecorchees. 27PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 420 A LITERARY MENU OF A DINNER SERYED ON BOARD OF AN AMERICAN STEAMSHIP. JfitU of jfare. There’s no want of meat, sir, Portly and curious viands are prepared. To please all hinds of appetite.—Massinger, OYSTERS. Oysters on the half-shell. He was a brave man who first ate an oyster.—Dean Swift. SOUP. Green turtle and consomme t\ la Royale. A hasty plate of soup.— Winfield Scott. HORS-D’OEUVRES. Olives. Croquettes of venison. Celery. And such small deer have been Tom’s food.—Shakespeare. PISH. Salmon boiled, shrimp sauce. Master, I marvel how the fishes live.— Shakespeare. JOINTS, &c. 1. Roast ribs of beef, with horseradish and browned potatoes. Oh, the roast beef of old England 1 And, oh, the old English roast beef 1—Fielding. 2. Chicken saute a la Marengo. And count their chickens ere they’re hatched.—Butler. 3. Frogs’ legs eh fricassee. Like a toad i’ the hole.—Shakespeare. 4. Saddle of mutton roasted, with jelly and asparagus. A pound of man's flesh is not so estimable, profitable neither, as flesh of mutton.—Shakespeare.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 421 PUNCH A LA ROMAINE, Drink to the lass; I’ll warrant she'll prove an excuse for the glass l—Sheridan. GAME. 1. Wild ducks roasted, with jelly and cress. Art thou drawn forth, among a world of men, to slay the innocent ? Shakespeare. 2. Robins on toast. Call for the robin redbreast.— Webster. SALADS. Chicken mayonnaise and lobster mayonnaise. Oh great and glorious, oh herbaceous meat! ’Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. Back to the world he’d turn his weary soul, A nd dip his fingers in the salad-bowl.—Sydney Smith. SWEETS. Macaroon pudding. Charlotte russe. Compote of fruits. Citron cake. Confectionery. Sweets to the sweet.—Shakespeare. Vanilla ice cream. You are the vanilla of society.—Sydney Smith. FRUITS. Duchesse pears. Black Hamburg grapes. Peaches. Oranges. English walnuts. Across the walnuts and the wine.—Tennyson. TEA. Tea, thou soft, thou sober sage.—Cibber. COFFEE. Coffee, which makes the politician wise.—Pope. CIGARS. Give me a cigar.—Byron. Fate cannot harm me ; I have dined to-day —Sydney Smith.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 422 FRENCH CHRISTMAS DINNER MENU. GRAND HOTEL MONTFLEURY, CANNES. /Iftenu £>e IHoel, 1SSS. POTAGE. Consomme de volaille Mont-Fleuri. POISSON. Saumon de la Loire, sauce aux huitres. RELEVE. Filet de boeuf glace ii, la Fontainebleau, sauce au Sherry. ENTREES. Supreme de perdreaux it la Marechale. Galantine de dinde sur socle it laNationale. Punch au Chateau-Yquem. ENTREMETS DE LEGUMES. Asperges de Nice en branches, sauce mousseline. ROTS. Faisans d’iScosse truSAs it la voliere, sauce Perigueux. Salade de tete de laitue. ENTREMETS. Plum pudding a l’Anglaise. Glace it la]V6nitienne, Gateaux du Congres. Chalet rustique historic. Desserts et paniers de fruits assortis.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 428 DINER DE L'EXPOSITION A PARIS, 1889. Potage : Creme d’ecrevisse Saint Germain. Rissoles Lucullus. Tartelettes Conti. Saumon, sauce indienne. Turbot, sauce Normande. Quartier de marcassin Moscovite. Poulardes Ptirigordines. Homards Bordelaises. Chaudfroids de becfigues. Granites, fine Champagne. Spooms au Clicquot. Paons truffes. Rocher de foies gras. Salade Russe. Asperges, sauce mousseline. Glace Eiffel. Glace centenaire. Gaufrettes. Gfiteau millefeuilles. Gateau Napolitain. Dessert. Vins. Madere 1858, retour de l’lnde. Grand Montrachet 1877. Saint-Nicolas Bourgueil 1884. Smith Haute-Laffitte 1875. Chambertin 1877. Chateau-Yquem 1875. Veuve Clicquot. Georges Goulet 1884. Fine Champagne 1842. Caf6s. Liqueurs.424 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY BELGIAN IMLEIISrTT CINQUANTENAIRE DES CHEMINS DE FER BELGES, FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE BELGIAN RAILWAYS. BANQUET offert le 15 Aout par le Ministre cles Chemins de Fer, Postes et Telegraphes. Bruxelles: Restaurant Dubost freres, Saiun successeur. 600 couverts. Dtn. /ilbenu. Sherry, dry. Chateau La Tour, blanche. Chateau Leoville. Moet et Chandon. Chateau Haute Brion. Chateau Richebourg. G. H. Mumrn. Louis Roederer. Porto royal. Ca£6. Liqueurs. Potage Condorcet. Sakuska a la Russe. Truites saumonees A la Cambacer^s. Filet de boeuf k la Maintenon. Petits poussins 4 l’lndienne. Ris de veau la Portugaise. (Punch Christiania.) Salade ;\ Pltalienne. Karibou de Lasadar venaison. Colins de la Virginie. Foies gras de Cohnar en Bellevue. Cotelettes de langouste ;\ la Henrion. Gelee d’ananas ;1 la Laguipiere. Bombe aux avelines. Dessert. Fruits.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION j 425 BBLGIAIT IMZiEISriT. BANQUET offert par la Cour d’Appel de Bruxelles a Monsieur, le Procureur General Van Schoor, 11 Decembre, 1886. /iBenu. Huitres ro3-ales d’Ostende. Potages <[ 0x-talL L Consomme d'Orlfians. Petites caisses de ris de veau la Rossini. Turbot, sauce aux crevettes. Piece de Durham la broche, sauce bearnaise. Cimier de chevreuil, grand veneur. Poularde de Breda a la Cambaceres. Aspic de homards en belle-vue. (Punch Su6dois.) Celeris braises A la moelle. Becasses en canape. Compote. Terrine de foies gras de Strasbourg. Salade. Pouding a la Lucullus. Bombe Nelusco. Fruits. Dessert. (Yins.)42f> PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY DEJEUNER DINATOIRE a given on tlie occasion of a Wedding, December 17,1889, at the Grand Central Hotel, Johannesburg, Transvaal, South Africa. 100 Couverts. £ HORS-D’CEUVRES. Caviar on toast. Radishes. Olives. ENTREES. Mayonnaise of salmon montije. Bouchees it la reine. Chicken pie. JOINTS. Poularde en gelee. Tnrkey farci it la Viennoise. VEGETABLES. Potatoes il la Parisienne. Peas ii l’Anglaise. Asparagus, sauce remoulade. Cucumbers and lettuce. PASTRY. Baba au rhum. TriHes. Custards au champagne. Jellies. Cakes varies. DESSERT. Assorti. Cheeses assortis. Coffee. Tea. WINES, ETC. Amontillado. German and English ales. Chdteau Lafitte. Pontet Canet. Barsac. Steinwein. ‘ Rudesheimerberg. Johannisbergcr. Pommery Greno. Benedictine. Curasao. Maraschino.427 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION H O LZWARTH’S HOTEL, BUDAPEST. Menu du Diner, March 20th, 1887. Potage it la Princesse (Sherry). Hobs-d’ceuvre : Rissoles au salpicon it la riche. Poisson : Saumon du Rhin ii la ravigote (Ermelleki). Releve : Filet de bceuf it la regence. Entree : Cotelettes d’agneau ii la Dauphine (Egri Burgundi). Sorbet : Punch au champagne. Roti : Poulet nouveau farci, salade de laitue. Compote Frangaise (Heidsieck monopole). Legumes : Asperges en branches. Entremets : Bombe glacee it la Marie Louise. Dessert : Patisserie. Fruits. Fromage (Tokaji asszu). Mokka. Liqueur, SHEPHEARD’S HOTEL, CAIRO. Diner du 12 Novembre, 1888. TUbcnu, Potage aux perles du Japon. Bouchees de crevettes. Roastbeef it l’ancienne. Petites timbales 4 la Montpensier. Courlis rotis. Salade. Courges it la Turque. Charlotte it la Russe. Dessert. Cafe it la Turque.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 428 MENU OF THE DINNER given by the Sultan to the Emperor William on the occasion of his visit to Constantinople, Nov.'23,1889. Consomme de volaille k l’Allemande. Petites bouchees et Beureks. Bar imperial. Filet de bceuf royal. Escalopes de becasses aux trades. Cotelettes de foie gras Strasbourgeoises. Asperges en branche. Punch 4 la Bomaine, Faisans et cailles rotis. Pillau. Ananas la Victoria. Timbales Suisses. Panier de glaces. MENU OF THE DINNER given by the Queen-Regent op Spain to H.M. Queen Victoria, Villa Ayate, near San Sebastian, April 4, 1889. Consomme Louis XV. Soles 4 l’Orly. Filets de boeuf Perigord. Cotelettes la Alphonse XIII. Chaud-froid de cailles k l’aspic. Asperges Aranjuez. Chapons de Bayonne rotis. Salade Venitienne. Babas k l’Americaine. Cremes vaDille et chocolat. Glaces. V'ins : XerAs (1830). Johannisberg. Chateau Lafitte. Porto (1815). Champagne (Clicquot)429 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION TRANS-AFRICAN' RAILWAY COMPANY. Inauguration op the First Section. COMPAGNIE DES CH EM I NS DE FER A TRAVERS L’AFRIQUE. Inauguration de la premiere section, Loanda, 31 Octobre, 1888. 500 Couverts. /nbenu. Sardines. Olives vertes. Saucisson de Lyon. CEufs farcis. Noix de veau glacees aux petits pois en salade. P&tes de volaille en croutes. Pains de foies gras aux trufles. Galantines de dindes en gelee. Hures de sanglier aux pistaches. Filets de volaille en chaudfroid. Jambonneaux de poulet il la gelee. Dindes roties. Salade verte. Cochons de lait rotis decoupes. Jambons d’Tork braises, glaces. Asperges en branches la vinaigrette. Salade de legumes A la Russe, dans des saladiers. Gateaux Victoria. Biscuits G6nois. Palais de dames. G'rofttes au fondant. Fruits frais varies. Crimes au caramel. Blancs-mangers panaches. Bavarois de riz Imp6ratrice. Choux it la creme vanille. Eclairs au chocolat. Champagne. Madere. Porto. Caf6. Cognac. Liqueurs assorties.430 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY MENU OF THE DINNER given by Prince Akihito Komatsu no Muja, at the Hotel Imperial, Vienna, February 24, 1887. Huitres d’Ostende (Chablis). POTAGE. Tortue a l'Anglaise (Sherry, very old). Puree a la reine. HORS-D’CEUVRES. Petites bouchees. RELEVES. Saumon du Rhin, sauce ravigote. (Hochheimer Dom-Dechaney, 1876.) Filet de bceuf a la Richelieu (Chateau Lafitte, 1876). ENTREES. Homard en Bellevue. Supreme de volaiRe a, la Chamboid. Sorbet 4 l’lmperiale (Mumm, extra dry). ROTI. Faisan dore roti aux truiles de I’erigord. Salade Frangaise. Compote. LEGUME. Asperges fraiches. ENTREMETS. Croute & l’ananas. Glace a la Montblanc. (Tokajer Essenz 1798 : speciality de la maison.) DESSERT. Patisserie. From ages. Fruits. (Caf£ noir. Liqueurs.)431 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION. HER MAJESTY’S DINNER. Windsor Castle: Tuesday, July 7, 1891. POTAGES. Bisque d’6crevisses aux quenelles. Le printanier. POISSONS. Les tranches de saumon, sauces Genevoise et Tartare. Les filets de soles frits. ENTREE. Les petits vol-au-vents tinanci^re. RELEVES. Haunches of venison. Roast beef. ROT. Les cailles bardees aux feuilles de vigne. ENTREMETS. Les asperges la sauce. Les cotelettes de volaille t\ la gelee. La Charlotte Russe aux fraises. Les petits babas au Curasao. DEJEUNER to H.R.H. Prince George of Wales, K.G., on bis admission to the Freedom of the City, June 1, 1889. Menu. Clear turtle soup. Salmon mayonnaise. Crayfish croquettes. Lamb cutlets and peas. Lobster salads. Quails in aspic jelly. Perigord pies. Mayonnaise of chicken. Ribs of lamb. Roast chickens. Galantine of capons. Tongues. Hams. Foies gras chaudfroid. P.avaroise if la moderne. Victoria creams. Clear and noyau jellies. Compotes of apricots. Pastries. Meringues. Fruits. Ices. &c.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 432 HISTORICAL SWISS MENU In connection with the celebrated Fete of the Abbaye des Yignerons. GRAND HOTEL DE VEVEY. 25 Aout, 1889* MENU DU DINER offert par la Confrcrie des Ylgnerons. Hors-d’oeuvre a la Pales. Potage bisque Hoqueton. Saumon, sauce d’Abbe. Pommes de Cannes de conseillers. Filet de bceuf, garniture de grand-pretre. Chartreuse de perdreaux en vendangeuses. Aspic de foie'gras de Silene. Clioux-fleurs de Ceres. Volailles roties embrochees aux hallebardes. Salade en Bacchanale. Bombes glacees de la troupe de l’hiver. Gateau de noce. Fruits de Bacchus. Dessert au diapason normal. Fromage d’Armaillis it la Currat. MENU OF AN AMERICAN FISH DINNER. POTAGES. Aux huitres. Tortue verte (claire). Terrapine (life). Poissons. King-fish au bleu, sauce Genevoise. Baked shad-fish, sauce ravigote. Filets de halibut aux coquillages. Paupiettes de pompineau 4 la Lafayette. Croustades de muscalonge 4 la creme. Petites bouchfes de grenouilles h la poulette. Sea-fish d’Amerique rotis. Galantine de black-fish 4 la gelee. Crabes mous frits. Mayonnaise de homard. Queues de homard au gratin. Gombos a, la creme. Mais au beurre. Gelee de poisson au vin de Calif or nie.433 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION CHRISTMAS LUNCHEON. ALL DISHES COMPOSED OF PORK. ORDONNANCE ET MENU D’UN DEJEUNER DE NOEL. Tout en Charcuterie. MENU DES VINS. MENU DES METS. Arbois sec. Chablis. Meursault. Montrachet. Ch&teau-Clarke. Medoc. Chfiteau-Camiran. Corton. Chambertin. hors-d’ceuvres froids. Mortadelle. Arles. Lyon. Foie gras. hors-d’ceuvres chauds. Andouillettes de Clamecy si Mavoisine. Croquettes Richelieu. Boudin de Tonnerre. ENTREES. Croustade de cochon au Menu de Roi. Echinee de cochon, sauce poivrade. Pieds de cochon A, la P6rigueux. Aspic de jambon aux pistaches (sur socle). ROTS. Cochon de lait farci si l’anglaise. Hure A la gelee (sur socle). Laitues en salade (aux lardons grilles). Coupe du milieu. Fine champagne (dit trou Normand). Sorbets glaces s\ la romaine. Chiiteau-Lfioville. Pajar&te. Lunel. Tokay etY'Clicquot. I ENTREMETS. Epinards au jus de pore roti. Artichauts K la Barigoule. Beignets souffles. Pannequets du rocher de Cancale. GLAOE. Jambon sur socle A la gelee. DESSERT. Fruits. Compotes. Petits fours.434 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY MENU OF THE GIGANTIC BANQUET Served to over 13,000 People, in the PALAIS DE L’INDUSTRIE, PARIS, IN 1889. MENU. Potage Parisienne. Hors-d’ceuvres varies. Truites saumonees, sauce Pranqaise. Filet de bceuf 4 la gelee. Galantine de poulardes truffee. Dindonneaux rotis. Pate de caneton. Salade russe. Petits souffles glaces. Babas au rhum. Gateaux vari6s. Dessert. Tins. Madere. Graves. Medoc. Poniard (Bouchard aine). Champagne frappe. Cafe. Liqueurs. The Contractors for the Dinner were Messrs. Potel & Chabot, • of Paris.435 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION MENU OF A GAME BANQUET. TREMONT HOUSE, Chicago, November 23, 1889 MENU. Blue points. SOUP. Venison a la chasseur. Consomme of prairie chicken. FISH. Baked whitefish, port wine sauce. Boiled trout, lobster sauce. BOILED. Wild turkey. Leg of mountain sheep. BOAST. Saddle of antelope. Mountain sheep. Leg of venison. Pheasants. Wild goose. Blue grouse. Mallard duck. Quail. . Prairie chicken. Red-head duck. Sage hen. Wild turkey. Spotted grouse. Jack rabbit. Black-tail deer. Plover. Canvas-back duck. Black bear. Wood duck, English hare. Blue-wing teal. Sand-hill crane. Squirrel opossum. Ruffled grouse. Coon. Leg of elk. Partridges. Brandt. Cinnamon bear. Widgeon. Saddle of black-tail deer. [p.t.o. 28436 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ORNAMENTS. Hunter’s Surprise. The Coon Hunt. BROILED. Blue-wing teal. Pheasants. Jack snipe. Quail. Marsh birds. Blackbirds. Rabbit. Plover.. Grey squirrel. Reed birds. Venison steak. Partridge. Butter-ball duck. Rice birds. English snipe. VEGETABLES. Boiled and mashed potatoes. Green peas. Stewed tomatoes. Sweet potatoes. Celery. ^Sweet corn. Spinach. ENTREES. Ragout of squirrel. Rabbit braize, sauce Burgundy. Venison cutlet, jelly sauce. Fillets of grouse truffled. Dressed celery. Prairie chicken salad. ORNAMENTAL DISHES. Pyramid of quail en Bellevue. Pyramid of wild goose liver in jelly. Boned duck au naturel. Boned quail en plumage. Blackbirds at play. Prairie chicken en socle. DESSERT. Confectionery. Fancy almond cake. Candy pyramid. Wine jelly. Bonbons. Lady fingers. Apples. Oranges. Nuts. Raisins. Figs. California grapes. Catawba grapes. Vanilla ice cream. Roman punch. Cheese. Biscuits. COFFEE.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 437 MENU OF A DINNER given in the Imperial Palace at Berlin, in honour of H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. Jfoniglidje 9Wittag8tafeI. <&{fyilbfroten*@uppe. £ftomifcf?c $afteten. ©teinfcutte. JtaU'C'Utcfcn init SWaccaront. <§u$ner6rufte mit (?belpiljen. Sftefyfcf)mttm mit Xriiffehi. •hamburger ©anfe. Briicfytc. ©alat. ©eHerie. 9(prtfofen=*]3ubbing. Jtafeftangeit. ©cfrovencS. 01ad)tifc(). Royal Dinner-table. Real turtle soup. Roman patties. Turbot. Roast veal with macaroni. Chicken breasts with mush- rooms. Slices of venison with truffles. Hamburgh geese. Fruits. Salad. Celery. Apricot pudding. Cheese-straws. Ice. Dessert. MENU OE A BANQUET At 15 M. (15s.) per head, inclusive of Wines. Served at Gorlitz. Russiscbe Vorspeisen. Suppe nach Kbnigin-Art. Zander mit Butter und Kartolfeln. Hammelriickcn mit griinen Erbsen. Hohl-Pastete nach Toulouser Art. Welsche Hahnen. Salat. Eingemachte Friichte. Gestiirztes Eis nach Nesselrode. Ease und Butter. Nachtisch. Russian hors-d’oeuvres. Queen soup. Pike with butter and potatoes. Saddle of mutton with green peas. Vol-au-vent la Toulouse. French chicken. Salad. Compote of fruit. Nesselrode ice. Cheese and butter. Dessert.438 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ABSCHIEDS-DINER EES GRAFEN BISMARK. (FAREWELL DINNER OF PRINCE BISMARK.) Berlin : June 1890. ©erofiete 5(uftcrn. Jviiffet mit frifcfjer SBittter. 01onnannt[clie @equnge. <§amf>utger 3^mtd)fleifct). Sftinberfcnift. SDJeertettig. Sunge -§itf)ner mit ©parget* fpt^en. Statienifdje Sangoufte. 3uttge ©dmepfen. ©pantfdie Qtrtifdjocfen. Jlictuijeier. 9Barmc Srudjtfucfyen. ©efrorene§ @af)nen=(5:i3. ^dfeftangen. Grilled oysters. Crawfish soap. Truffles with butter. Norman sole. Hamburg smoked beef. Breast of beef. Horseradish. Chicken with asparagus points. Italian lobsters. Young snipe. Spanish artichokes. Lapwing’s eggs. Hot fruit tart. Cream ice. Cheese souffle. A BILL OF FARE IN SWEDISH. MATSEDEL. Soppa af rhabarberpuro. Dansk olsoppa. Polskt aggol. Irdagd al med mayonnaise och forlorade agg. Stuvad gos med persiljesSs. Stuvad gadda. Rottpudding, kokt i papper Flaskkotletter i gelee ' Kaif ragofit Marengo Potatis i griiddsHs. Berliner iippelkaka. Vinkram.439 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION AN ITALIAN MENU (Translated). LISTA DEI CIBI. Antipasto. Suppa di Ravioli it brodo. Rombo, salsa ollandesef Filletto di bue alia Napolitane. Pasticcio di fegato d’oca. Sparagi alia Milanese. Tachino al crescione. Insalata. Gelato di lampone. Pasticceria con mandorle. Formaggio. Frutti. BILL OF FARE. Hors-d’oeuvre. Consomme Ravioli. Turbot, Hollandaise sauce. Fillet of beef Napolitaine. Goose liver pate. Asparagus, Milanese style. Young turkey with cresses. Salad. Raspberry ice. Almond pastry. Cheese. Fruits. A ROUMANIAN MENU (Translated). Mezelicu. Icre verte. Masline, sardele. Supa borsu de miel. Morun la gratar cu lamie. Scoic cu ored, Muschiu la frigar, garmsitu. Guiu cu came. Gasca friptu cu salata. Cletite cu dulceta. Trojitura. Struguri. Cafea. j Hors-d’oeuvres. Green caviare. Olives, anchovies. Puree of lamb. Roast sturgeon, sliced lemons. Mushrooms with rice. Roast beef, garnished. Fowl with beans. Roast goose and salad. Peacock cakes with fruits. Savoury dish. Grapes. Coffee.440 PRACTICAL GASTRONOM V A MENU IN Tapioca-sup modii Crecy. Turbot ko klafilavaet. Jiipaloet ko foctavaet. Goks modii Yicomtesse. Makar Milanik. Magabagoks poloetol. Salade flifik. Peilils flihk. Losets ko vaet modii Dijon. Spargs de Spitzberg. Bostab. YOLAPUK. Cr6cy and tapioca soup. Turbot, shrimp sauce. Mutton and venison sauce. Chicken a la Yicomtesse. Milanese timbales. Roast guinea-fowl. Season salad. New peas. Lobster, Dijon sauce. Spitzberg asparagus. Dessert. A TURKISH MENU. Tschebria tschorbaschi. Orman kababi. Nohut hanissi. Puff beurighi. Ternik halwassi. Taprak lani dolmassi. Ellmassia. Assida. Gulatsch. Zerdsch pillau. Khoschab. Mutton broth with eggs and vinegar. Lamb roasted whole. Fricasseed chicken with walnut and pepper sauce. Cheese souffle. Boiled semolina with honey and butter. Pickled cabbage and gherkins. Baked calves’ feet. Semolina pie. Thick cream with rosewater. Gold-pillau. Scented water.MENUS AND THEIlt COMPILATION 441 A JAPANESE MENU Hachimono. Choku. Misoschiru. Kuchitori. Konomono. Sashimi. Sushi. Sunomono. Wanmori. Miso-bean Soup. A kind of snail pie. Fish stew. Bean-vegetable. A meat soup. Cucumber and dried fish. Corn-vegetable. Raw fish. Rice with vinegar. TRANSLATED COPY OF A CHINESE BILL OF FARE. Bird’s-nest and pigeon’s-egg soup. Fried fish. Broiled shark fins. Baked macaroni. Stewed bamboo shoots. Cold chicken with stuffing. Stewed water-chestnuts and mushrooms. Roast wild duck with salad. Chinese cakes. Biscuit with vegetable stuffing. Meat pies. Almond tea. Jus cancris incoctis conditum. Lumbuli bubuli subassati addito jure vini Materiani ex insulis fortunatis necnon globulis ex Solani tuberibus. Yel brassica florens vel phaseolus viridis una cum perna linguisque scissis. Anguilla cocta cum jure mixto compositoque. Assum ferinum. Savilla et acetaria. Lactis flos glacialis ad modum principis Pueckleri. Butyrum caseusque.442 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY HUMOROUS MENUS. BILL OF FARE IN THE FORM OF A LAWYER’S BRIEF, C. E. PARSONS AND CO., LIMITED. ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION. Incorporated (into our systems), Aug. 13, 188!). Directors. The Parson ... 1 share. 6/8 1 share The Dean 1 „ Slanders 1 „ Soup 1 „ Vital Spark... 1 ,, The Card Sharper ... 1 „ Biscuits ... 1 „ The Inspector 1 „ Balls (foot)... 1 „ Notary Public 1 „ ARTICLE 1. ARTICLE V. Canope d’anchovies aux olives. Still Ock. ARTICLE II. Soup. Clear turtle a la mal de raer. Milk punch. ARTICLE III. Poisons / Red mullet, Italienne. Fillet of soles a la President. DRY SHERRY. (One Rutton.) ARTICLE IV. ' Entrees. Civet of leveret. Sweetbreads a la Canadia. Lobster patties laNiagara Falls CHAMPAGNE. Oh 1 we are enjoying ourselves. Removes. Saddle of mutton (Southdown). Gosling la 5th Avenue. Boiled chickens and bakon aux Yankee Doodle. MORE CHAMPAGNE. Vive la Bollingere. ARTICLE VI. GRICE ! ! ! Still more Phiz. ARTICLE VII. Cheese straws a la Chicago. Gargles various. (Button No. 2.) ARTICLE VIII. Sweets. Ice Pudden. ARTICLE IX. The Dessert. PORT, KRUSTED ARTICLE X Toothpix. ARTICLE XI. Poker. Euchre. Nap. GET !443 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION MENU OF THE DINNER given at the “Old Cock Tavern/' London, by the Dr. Johnson Club. %>e IDv. Jo bus on Club be. Saturbase, I6tb fIDarcb, ISS9, atte sc “ ©16c Cocl: 'Cavern,” 22 JTcete] Stvcete, E.C. Htte sc hour of Seven of sc Cloefc. JJe JGille of jfagre. ‘‘H tavern cbalr is tbe tbrone of biunatt felicits.” Johnson. J3e Xuscious /iDorscIIc sclept sc ©safer. lt)e Olbe IRump Stcafcc ipubbimi, witb se Uarfts, Iftibness, ©ssters, anb flDusbrooins. ye flbarrow Jfiones. ye Uastie Tipple |pie. ye Cootbsome Steweb Cbeesc anb se TiClelsb IRarcbit. Ipuncbe. (Boob ^fellowship.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 444 A LUNCHEON AT SHAKESPEARE’S TOWN. At Stratford-on-Avon a luncheon was held in the Town Hall on October 17, 1887, to commemorate the inauguration of the Clock Tower presented by G. W. Childs, of Philadelphia, TJ.S. BILL OF FARE. “ Ladies, a general welcome.”—Henry VII1. i. 4. “ Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.” As You Like It, ii. 8. “Now good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.” SOUPS Macbeth, in. 8. Clear Turtle. “ The imperious seas breed monsters ; for the dish.” Puree of Hare. Cymbeline, iv. 2. “ Here stand we both, and aim we at the best.” III. Henry VI. iii. 1. ENTREES (Hot). Galantines of Pigeons, with Mushrooms. Lamb Cutlets a la Princesse. Boudins a la Richelieu. Sweetbread a la Santa Cruz. “ Some pigeons, Davy, . . . and any little tiny kickshaws, tell William cook.”—II. Henry IV. v. 1. VENISON PASTIES AND HASHED VENISON. “ Come, we have hot venison pasty to dinner.”—Merry Wives, i. 2. “ Which is he that killed the deer 1 . . . | “ Let’s present him to the duke like a :> As You Like It, iv. 2. Roman conqueror.” J MAYONNAISE OF FISH. “ Epicurean cooks sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite.” Antony and Cleopatra, ii. . RAISED GAME PIES. “ Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his appetite.” Union of Athens, iv. 3. ROAST TURKEYS. “ Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey cock. Hen ru V. v. 1. DUCKS. “ O dainty duck.”—Midsummer Night's Dream, v. 7. GUINEA FOWL. “ Oh what should this cock come of ?”—As You Like It, ii. 7.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 445 BOAR’S HEAD AND BRAWN. “ Like a full-acorned boar.”—Cymbelinc, ii. 5. ROAST FOWLS. There is a fowl without a feather.”— Comedy of Errors, iii. 1. GALANTINE OF TURKEY. “ ’Tis passing good ... I prithee let me have it.”—Tanning oj the Shrew, iv. 3. TONGUES. “ Silence is only commendable in a neat’s tongue dried.” Merchant of Venice, i. 1 HAMS. “ I have a gammon of bacon.”—I. Henry IV. ii. 1. PIGEON PIES. “ Are there no young pigeons ? ”—11. Henry IV. v. 1. BRAISED AND ROAST BEEF. What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ? dish that I do love to feed upon.”—Taming of the Shrew, iv. 5. ROULADE OF VEAL AND GALANTINES OF CHICKEN. “ I desire you more acquaintance.”—Midsummer Night's Bream, iii. 1. POTTED LAMPERNS. “ From the banks of the Wye, and sandy-bottomed Severn.” ASPIC OF EELS. L Henry IV‘ 1U‘ 1- Cry to it as the Cockney did to the eels, when she put them i’ the paste alive.”—King Lear, ii. 4. DRESSED LOBSTERS. “ There is no meat like them; I could wish my best friend at such a feast.”—Timon of Athens, i. 2. SALADS. “ Salad was born to do me good.”—II. Henry IV. iv. 10. DRESSED POTATOES. “ Let the sky rain potatoes.”—Merry Wives, v. 4. ROLLS. “ The roll 1 where’s the roll ? ”•—II. Henry 1 V. iii. 2. SWEETS. Dessert Cakes. Jellies and Creams. Touktes, Meringues and Charlottes. “ There’s half a dozen sweets.”—Love’s Labour Lost, v. 2. “ A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner.” All’s Well that Ends Well, ii. 4.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 446 “ Will you dine with me l—Ay, if 1 he alive, and your mind hold, and your dinner worth the eating.'"—Shakespeare. Q0t?fe offe f^are. Jlflere rendering due iljmtbes to pe Create IJProupdere of all fringes for pc uerp bounte- ous repasfe herein prepapred, pc goodlp companpe assembled mill discourse Here- upon in pc manere l)erciit-aflere selfe fortl)e, to mitfe (Of 3j^e Souppe made from yc Oystere ; ye strange nc jWsit ^ bivalve, whereof it hath been sayde, at divers Course. tymes by some, to whistle, occasioning therebye y' proverbe quainte, “ There’s musicke in ye Deepe.” cL(ooc/ TAe Soupe prepayred with y° Maccaroni from ^ ye sunnie landes of Italie : Ye Songes whereof in pocsie euphotiick Have welle bcene designated Maccaro nick. (Of 3(^e flakye fleche of y° Codfishe, nettyde in y' ne J? etonhe ** colde Northe Sea, and crympyed in yc dain- Course. tyest fashyone : Ye Soundes of which by many too arc praised, E'en taken m withe rapture, when on Toaste wcllc raised. CXe’ldcm, QQe delicate and highly pryzed, though familiere Brityshe fysshe, yc Smei.TE : Fryed withe ye Egge ; veiled with the Buttere Melte, Rare is yc fragrance; ye appetite is feltc.447 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION ©f lie tfT^grbc (Course. Wo verye dayntylye dressed Cuttlettes of y° Muttone from y" verye choyceste of y° fleecy flockes, aft ere y° true style of y° Italiane masteres of y° culinarye arte. IVit he Sauce of tone fiquante, staccato. Ye Palate wakens withe ye choyce Tomato. Cl I d06/ 3^e tendere Larkes snayred expressly for y" feaste; offe a truthe a goodlye disshe, moste gustefulle, and much esteemed by y° higheste in y* lande. Once their gladde note ye mind and care delighted, But nerwe by cookes encaysedjye appetites exeyted; No more youre silvery tones and rapturous flights we marks, IYe see thyJlesshe beatified, On tendere larke ! 0f »e Jfourtbc (Course. moste prime joynte of Beeffe roastyde; a truly Royalle dysshe, by Ivynge knighted ; served withe yc famous Sauce offe ye succulente and welle-flayvoured Horseraydishe. * /cv i> Lc l<me, • 3j^e moste excellente and favouryte Saddle offe Porke Roastyde withe y° Apple Sauce and yc severalle muche esteemed enrichements apper- tayning thereunto. Ye Crackling, such perfections thought amongst ye Chinese nations. And on/ye to perfection brought bye a Crackling Confla- gration. lie scbmtllc $toeft Ipnssbcs nclcpcb lie pttbbtng (Tnme. £r)UNDRYE and many very cunningly com- poundyde Pastyes, both BOYLED and BAKYDE, of dyverse riche fruites and spyces from y° remoleste forryne partes : A lie fi.utyde and crest yd i! withe Trifles (wk/Flummerye, Completes ye accounte of ye Feaste in this Summarye. CL j I etc I Lie cv l? ij c l?e, Lulled with the virtues offe ye fraygrante weede, Charmed l>ye ye musicke offe ye tunefidle reede, Awake, then, the sou lie ! ye mais/eres offe ye Bowe, Ope chordes within! the keye so welle ye knowe. Ye Guestes in merriemente ye eve wilie passe. Withe ye joviale chorus and fraternalle glasse.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 448 CALEDONIAN HOTEL, OBAN. SCOTCH SUNDAY DINNER MENU IMIIEIsrU- SOUPS. Cock ieleekie. Oxtail. With Soups your palates first you may regale— There’s honest Cockieleekie and Oxtail. FISH. Kerrera Salmon. Fillets of Haddocks. Now from Loch Linnhe, and that’s no gammon, You’ve fillets of Haddock and Kerrera Salmon. ENTREES. Veal Cutlets. Scotch Haggis. Then if your appetite inclined to lag is, Please stir it up with Cutlets and Scotch Haggis. JOINTS. Roast Beef and Lamb. Boiled Fowls and Ham, Seize firm your forks, your work is now no sham, For see approach prime Roast Beef and tender Lamb. With some rare bits, too, your palates you may cram, There’s well-boiled Pullets and most dainty Ham. SWEETS. Cabinet Pudding. Rhubarb and Apple Tarts, Compotes of Fruit. Municipal Meringues. Vanilla Creams. Jubilee Jellies. Of Sweets there’s Cabinet Pudding, Tarts, Compotes of Fruit, Municipal Meringues, Vanilla Creams, and Jubilee Jellies to boot. Cheese. [Dessert a la Drummond. Then pree the toothsome Cheese, but do not say “ By gum,'5 and As the grand finale, try Dessert a la Drummond.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 449 BILL OF FARE OF A BEANFEAST DINNER served at the Albion Hotel, Blackpool. •> Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.” Roast Sirloin op Beef—Yorkshire Pudding. “ Long may each Briton of beef have his fill.” “ The proof of the pudding is the eating of it.” Fore and Hind Quarter of Lamb. “ Will’t please you taste of what is here 1 ” Boiled Mutton and Caper Sauce. “ Faith, I can cut a caper, and mutton to it.” Roast Chickens and Boiled Bacon. “ There is a fowl without a feather.” “ I have a gammon of bacon.” Spring Cabbages. Green Peas. New Potatoes. “ Let the sky rain potatoes.” Dumplings. Puddings. Sweets. “ Better have some of a pudding than none of a pie.” “ There’s half a dozen sweets.” CHEESE. Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.” BARRISTERS’ DEJEUNER, “AUDIENCE GASTRONOMIQUE,” Served to the Members of the French Bar at Marseilles. ROLE. t Huitres des plaideurs. Hors-d’oeuvres oratoires. Sole if la procedure Normande. \ Pates de gibier trades d’arguments. /Filets d’avocats aus coeurs d’artichauts. Petits pois it la sauce hermine. Becasses de clientele roti. I Salade de parquet Russe (sans panier). / Toque glac6e. ( Dessert d’eloquence vari6e. Chablis. Saint- Julien. Moet- Chandon.450 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY COMPLIMENTARY MENU OF A FAREWELL DINNER TO A YOUNG LADY NAMED LILIAN. The following complimentary menu to a young lady named Lilian does credit to its author L es huitres d’Ostende. I talien et printanier royal. L ottes A la Massillon. I ndienne de riz sur croustades. A iguillettes de canards St. Hubert. N oisettes de pr6-sal6, Lyon d’Or. B ombe A, la Romain'e. O rtolans et perdreaux sur canapes. N ouilles en timbales A la Napolitaine. V eloute de cardons A la moelle. 0 melette soufflee A la vanille. Y okohama glace an Clicquot. A bricots et fruits confits. G auffrettes et petits fours. E spalier de cbasselas Fontainebleau. Possibly the waiters were as much in a maze about the order of serving such a feast as the guests were amazed at the delicacy of the giver thereof.—Hotel World. BICYCLE CLUB DINNER PITTSBURGH. dVCZEIDTTT. “Man shall not live Inj bread alone.”—Matt. iv. 4. (Entries close at 9 o’clock. Open to all members. Start from scratch.) OYSTERS. Blue points, case-hardened. Celery, hollow rims. SOUP. Consomme, A B C of bicycling. FISH. Salmon, steamed, Victor backbone, parsley sauce. Potatoes'A la Julienne, dust-proof.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 451 ENTREES. Quail on toast, with detachable cranks. Young turkey, with cranberry jelly shrunk on. VEGETABLES. French peas, balls all round. Potatoes it la cream, cow-horn. RELISHES. Queen olives, roller bearings. Sweet pickles, Andrew’s head with long centre. Chicken salad, swing spring. DESSERT. Bisque ice cream, nickelled and enamelled. Lady cake, tandem and sociable. Champagne jelly, with detachable step. Florida oranges, buckled. Malaga grapes, long-distance saddle. Banana, with compressed tyre. Assorted cake, racer and light roadster. French coffee, liquid enamel. Bolls, continual coast. Tea, tyre-heater. Bread, sand-papered. LIQUORS.' Beverage, a la Cincinnati, with extra amount of rake. Sherry, with resultant spokes. Claret. DINER MILITAIRE ZMZZETsTTT. Potage ordre disperse. Bouchees formation du combat. Saumon, sauce melinite. Caneton non, ou ne can passe pas. Filet de bceuf aux eclats d’obus. Poulets petite poste. Gigot sentinelle double. Salade de fascicules. Asperges en faisceaux. Ca va Rhin et meme au delil. Vivres d’ordinairc glaces. Gateaux des trois armes. 29PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 452 HUMOROUS BILL OF FARE IN THE SWISS DIALECT. SPISZEDEL. Vum Esse vo de Schwizerische Juriste em achtezwanzigste Herbstmonet 1886, also em Zistig im Schwizerhof am Rhifall bi Schafhuse ghahand. “ Sag’ mer wat ischt, Und i will der sage wert bischt.” En unklari Subbe, agricht dur de Choch 231 vum Obligationerecht. En, trotz em Schwitzerisch-belgische Handelsvertrag, nit usgfiiehrte Meerfisck, mit Emmen-Egger, Chrebse, und Herdopfel. E Stuck vumene grosse Rindvieh vum Code Napoleon gewahrl eiscbt et. Wildi Vogel mit baitem Brot als Yolksspis noch em neuschte social-demokratische Rezept, innere schwarze Briieje. E ganz liarmlose Garteblueme innere liberale Soksse. Verschiimmleti Giiggel mit Schmerzessaloth. (Es sind Franzose und chonnet sich drum nid uf de Artikel 55 vom Schwizerische Oligationerecht beriife.) E Portion chranks Jgweid, en prachtige Ablick fur d'Maschtburger. En 1884 er siiesse Revisionsdurenand mit gahler Fosforsohsse. En ubrig bliebene Mocke vum Rhilalgletscher, de Juriste z’ Ehre, i de Schwitzerfarbe. Hemedaler Chiis, allerband Chromli und Schlackwahr, suhr und siiess Obst und no meh so Schlussartikel. Schwarze Kaffi, nid us tiitsche Eichele, mit em Gliisli vum arme Ma ! Wl. En rothe Tischwi ussem Lauffemer Sclilossberg | beidi vum Herr En wisse Tischwi vom Bohneberg J Weggeschtein. Nochher chommet no zwei besserie Wie: En Johannisberger, er ist aber a der Rohne und nid am tiitsche Rni gwachse, und en Wi vumene franzosische Schloss.453 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION ANCIENT MENUS. Copy of a curious Menu served on the occasion of Sir Oliver Wilkie’s election as Member for the City in 1561. FIRST COURSE. Calves’feet soup at the upper end ... ... • ... At the bottom of the table, roast rabbit At Sir Oliver’s right hand, stewed cockles Left side, poached eggs, with hop tops To the right of Sir Oliver, fried hasty pudding Opposite side, broiled mushrooms... Middle, black-caps ... SECOND COURSE. Dish of fish at the upper end (fried sprats) At the bottom, tripe ragoo’d in its own liquor Next to Sir Oliver’s right hand, rice fritters Opposite, eggs a la mode ... Ditto, to the right, oysters on shells Left side, radishes ... Middle, black-caps as above Butter allowed for cooking, |lb Salt and pepper Two bottles of ginger wine drunk at and after dinner ... Toast andwater Ordered to four waiters in white waistcoats Bread and small beer what you please s. (l. 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 U 0 it 0. 0 04 0 H 0 H 0 0§ 0 14 0 1 0 Of 0 0 0 li 0 01 0 21 of 0 0 I 0 0 1 Translation of a French Menu served in Paris during the Franco-German War in 1869. HORS-D’CEUVRES.—Radishes. Herring marine. Onions it la Broven(;ale. Slightly salt butter. Gherkins. Olives. FIRST COURSE.—Soup of slightly salted horse with • Vegetables. Ass-flesh cutlets with carrots. Mule’s liver saut6 aux champignons. Horse’s lights with white sauce. Carp i\ la matelotte. Fried gudgeons. Celery-heads with seasoning. SECOND COURSE.—Quarter of dog braised. Leg of dog roasted. Rats cooked upon the ashes. Rat pie with mushrooms. Eel a la broche. Salad of celery and small salad. DESSERT.—Dutch cheese. Apples. Fears. Marmalade au kirsch. Gateau d’ltalie au fromage de Chester.454 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY HOW OUR ANCESTORS DINED 400 YEARS AGO. Interesting “ Bill ” of Fare of a dinner given in Rich- mond, in 1506, to thirty-six persons. £ s. d. £ S. d. 36 Chickens 0 4 6 4 Breasts of Yeal 0 l 5 1 Swan ... ...) o 7 n Bacon 0 0 6 4 Geese ... ... J Quarter of a load 9 Rabbits 0 1 4 of Coals 0 0 4 2Rumps Beef Tails 0 0 2 Faggotts 0 0 2 6 Quails ... 0 1 6 3 Gallons and 1 2 Ounces of Peper 0 0 2 Gascoyne Wine 0 2 4 2 Ounces of Cloves 1 Bottle of Mosca- and Mace 0 0 4 vidine ... 0 0 8 9 Ounce & \ Safforn 0 0 6 Cherryes & Tarts 0 0 8 3 lb. of Sugar ... 0 0 8 Salt 0 0 1 2 lb. of Raisens... 0 0 4 Verjuice& Vinegar 0 0 2 1 lb. of Dates ... 0 0 4 The Cook paid ... 0 3 4 1 lb. & J Comfitts 0 0 2 Perfume ... 0 0 2 4 a Hundred Eggs 0 0 H 1 Bushell and ^ of 4 Gallons of Curd 0 0 4 Meal ... 0 0 8 1 Gallon of Goose- Water 0 0 3 berreys 0 0 2 Garnishing the Bread 0 1 0 Vessels 0 0 3 1 Kilderkin Ale ... 0 2 3 Herbs ... 0 1 0 £1 13 3^ 2 Dishes of Butter 0 0 4 The following is table of prices of the provisions used for a festive meal held at the Ely Palace, Holborn, London, in 1551. Among the guests were King Henry VIII., his Queen, the Foreign Ministers, the Lord Mayor, &c. 24 large oxen 100 sheep at 60 calves, each at 34 hogs, each at ... 91 pigs, each at 14 dozen of swans 10 dozen large capons, each at 9 dozen Kentish capons, each at 19 dozen common capons, each at ... 7 dozen and 9 gross of heath-cocks, each at 14 dozen of common cocks, each at... Best pullets (no number mentioned), each at Common ditto, each at 37 dozen pigeons, per dozen 340 dozen of larks, at per dozen £ s. d. 1 6 S 0 2 10 0 4 8 0 3 S 0 0 6 (a present) 0 18 0 1 0 0 0 6 0 0 S 0 0 3 0 0 2£ 0 0 2 0 0 10 0 0 6MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 455 A Bill of Fare in plain old English style. Ye annuale Whytebaite Dinner of hyr Majestye’s Ministers, on Wednesdaie, ye"l4th August, 1S58, atte ye Hostelrie ’yclept ye “ Shippe,” atte Greenwiche. This Bille of ye Fare is drawn in playne Englysli, without any cloake of Frenche or other foreygne tongue, for the sadde and sobere comforte of frendes, and tliat ye maye know what ye are asked to accept. Ye Bille of ye Fare. YE SOUPE.—Soupe made from ye Turtle, and alsoe Soupe made from ye Greene Fatte of ye same. YE FUSHE.—Ye Flounders curyously cooked, and Salmonne servyd inne lyke mannere. Ryssoles of ye Lobstere. Ye lyttel Soles, fryed. Ye Pudynges of ye Wliyting. Ye Eles skynned and stewed inne ye riche wyne of Oporto. Ye Omelette of Crabbe inne ye style as servyd to ye Guardes of ye Blue Scale. Ye Troute from ye River Spey, grylled with ye sauce of Tartar. Salmonne inne collopes, with ye sauce inne in ye Cyprus fashonne. Ye Whytebaite, be-frizzled, and alsoe be-devylled. FLESHE AND FOWLE.—Sweetbreades, with ye Mush- roomes added thereunto. Ye Haunche of ye Royale Bucke, with Haricotte Beanes servyd therewith. Ye Antient Hamme, from ye Citye of York, grylled inne wyne of Champagne. Ye Grouse from ye Northe Countree. Hogge Bacon and younge Beanes. YE SWEETES, &C.—Apprycottes flavoured with Noyau. Pudynges iced, after ye Nesselrode mannere. Lyttle Cakes made with ye Cheese from Parma, inne Italie. Ye Ices flavoured with Oranges and Strauberres. Divers Fruytes which are your Desertes, and ye Wynes of Champagne and manie outlandysh countrees. Ye Dinner wall be servyd after ye mannere of ye Russian people. Ye guestes are bydden to eate after ye Hungarie mannere. W. T. Bale, Mastere. A CURIOUS BILL OF FARE OF 1761, For the Study of English Clerks of the Kitchen, Cooks and Housewives. Bread and beer £ 0 s. 4 Potage de Tortue 0 1G Calipash 1 1 Calipees ... 0 1G Une pate de Jambon de Bayone 2 10 Potage Julien Yerd 1 12456 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY £ g. 2 Tinbots to remove the Soups ... 2 0 Haunch of Venison ... ... .. ... ... 2 12 Palaits de Mouton ... ... ... 0 6 Selle de Mouton ... ... ... ... ... 0 6 Salade ... ... ... ... ... .,. ... 0 4 Saucisses aux Ecrevisses ... ... ... ... 0 18 Petites Pates a l’Espanol ... ... ... ... 1 10 Coteletts il la Cardinal... ... ... ... ... 0 16 Selle d’Agneau glace aux cocombres... ... ... 0 18 Saumon A, la Chambord ... ... ... ... Ill Fillets de Saules Royales ... ... ... ... 1 10 Une bisque de lait de Magneraux ... ... ... 1 15 Un Lambert aux innocents ... ... ... ... 1 10 Des Perdrix, sauce vin de Champaign ... ... 1 10 Poulets A la Russienne... ... ... ... ... 0 10 Ris de Veau en Arlequin ... ... ... ... 0 18 Quee d’agneau il la Montaban ... ... ... ... 0 10 Dix Cailles ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 2 Un Lapreau ... ... ... ... ... ... 0 10 Un Phesant ... ... ... ... ... ... 0 12 Dix ortolens ... ... ... ... ... ... 7 4 Un toarte de cerises ... ... ... 1 1 Artichaux tlla proven Salle ... ... ... ... 0 16 Choufieurs au Hour ... ... 0 16 Cretes de Cocq en bonets ... ... ... ... 0 10 Amortede Jesuits ... ... ... ... ... 0 12 Salade ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0 4 Chicken ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0 2 Ice Cream and fruits ... ... ... ... ... 5 5 Fruit of various sorts, forced ... ... ... ... 16 16 Fruit from market ... ... 2 10 Butter and cheese ... ... ... ... ••• 0 2 Claret ... ... ... ... ... 1 10 Champaign ... ... ... ... ... ... 7 10 Hock 0 12 White wine ... ... ... ... ... ... 0 2 Burgundy ... ... ... ... ••• ••• 0 6 Madeira ... ... ... ... ... ••• ••• 0 1 Cape 2 0 Sack ... ... ... ... ••• 0 f Cyprus ... ... ... ... ... ••• ••• 0 3 Neuilly ... Usquebaugh ... ... .. ... ••• ••• 0 10 Spa and Bristol waters... ... ... ... ••• 0 6 Oranges and lemons ... ... ... 0 5 Coffee and tea ... ... ... ••• ••• 0 10 Lemonade ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• 0 16 Total £81 11 d. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ' 0 i 0 i 6 i 0 l 6 1 0 I 6 1 0 1 0 0 ; o 1 6 ) 6 1 6 1 6 2 6 5 0 15 0 :i 0 2 0 3 0 3 0 2 0 2 0 6 0 1 6 0 0 1 6 3 O 0 6 0 0 6 0 5 0 0 6 6 0 1 6457 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION MENU, Mi57. S. A. Henri II. d'Orleans, Due de Longueville, Prince de Neuchatel, HOTEL DE VILLE A NEUCHATEL, le 29 Juillet. Les huitres. Les citrons. DEUX POTAGES. Le riz il la puree de pois verts. Le potage printanier. DEUX HORS-D’CEITVBES. Les rissoles il la Russe. Les petits vol-au-vent, aux huitres. UN RELEVE. Les beefsteaks garnis de petites pommes de terre tourn6es. CINQ, ENTREES. Le salmi chaudfroid, il la gelee. Les boudins la Richelieu, sauce tomate. Le turbot garni de queues d’ecrevisses, il la Flamande. Les sautes de filets de poulets, au supreme, garnis d’un ragout il la Toulouse. Le pate chaud de legumes, il la Bechamel. UN PLAT DE ROTS. Les Cailleteaux, le Dindonneau, le Veau. Deux salades. QUATRE ENTREMETS. Fromage Bavarois, aux fraises. Beignets il l’AUemande, aux abricols. Blanc-manger il la creme. Petits soufflds au cafe. Fruits eh IJctscrt.458 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY GRAND DINER DANS LES SALONS du Prince Charles de Hohenlohe-Kirchberg, le 18 Mars 1771. POTAGES. A la Russel, aux Marrons. aux Yermicelles, it la puree de Racines. Croutes au pot, gratinees. POISSONS. Samnon, sauce Genoise. Garpe du Rhin, 4 la Chambord. RELEVES. Pieces de bceuf en surprise. Selle de chevreuil, sauce poivrade. ENTREES. Poulardes en petit deuil. Blanquette aux trulfes, Saute de perdreaux fumes. Pate chaud, a la Financier?. Yol au vent de turbot, a la creme. Ris de veau pique, glace, sauce tomate. Filets de lapereau, en gibelote. Cromesqui a la Russe. Filets d’agneau piques, glaces, sauce Espagnole. Petits pates, au salpicon. Ailerons de dindon au soleil. Chartreuse de tendrons de veau. Pieds d’agneau, it la poulette. Pigeons it la Voltaire, sauce Hollandaise. Soviets au rhum. Soviets au Idrsch. GROSSES PIECES D'ENTREMETS. Gateau monte. Rocher. Carpe au bleu. Buisson d’ecrevi.sses. ROTS. Quartier de pre-sale. Longe de veau de Pontoise. Becasses aux croutons. Faisans de Bohbme. Salade de laitues. Salade de chicoree. LEGUMES. Petits pois au beurre. Asperges, sauce A la Portugaise. Choux-fleurs, sauce brune. Petites feves liees. Concombres A la maitre d’hotel. (Eufs poches aux truffies, a l’aspic. ENTREMETS. Petits pots, au caf6 vierge. Gelee de marasquin. Gelee de citron renversee. Petits pains & la Duchesse. GLACES. l’Ananas. aux Framboises. Dessert.MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 459 MENU OF A ROYAL CITY BANQUET SERVED TO H.M. KING GEORGE III. London: November 9, 1761. BILL OF FARE. King and Queen. Each four services and removes. First Service. Consisting of turrenes, fish, venison, etc. Nine dishes. Second Service. A fine roast; ortolans, quails, knotts, ruffs, pea chicks, etc. Nine dishes. Third Service. Consisting of vegetable and made dishes, green pease, green morrells, green truffles, cardoons, etc. Eleven dishes. Fourth Service. Curious ornaments in pastry, jellies, blomonges, cakes, etc. Nine dishes. Eight of the Royal Family. Four on the right hand of the King and four on the left. Each four services before them as follow :— First Service. Consisting of venison, turtle, soups, fish of every sort, viz., Dorys, mullets, turbots, bets, tench, soals, etc. Seven dishes. Second Service. Ortolans, teals, quails, ruffs, snipes, partridges, pheasants, etc. Seven dishes. Third Service. Vegetable and made dishes, green pease, artichoaks, ducks’ tongues, fat livers, etc. Nine dishes. Fourth Service. Curious ornaments in cakes, both savoury and sweet, jellies and blomonges in variety of shapes, figures and colours. Nine dishes.460 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY MENU, 1788. HOTEL DE VILLE DE PARIS, MARECHAL DE RICHELIEU le 5 Feurier. DEJEUNER. Une tete de veau, en tortue. QUATRE GROSSES PIECES EROIDES. Buisson de trades, an vinde Champagne. Hure de sanglier. Pate de Pithiviers. Des huitres fraiches. HUIT HORS D’CEUVRES D’OEFICE. Quatre de Agues vertes. Deux de beurre d’anchois. Uu de caviar Russe. Un de radis. SIX HORS D’CEUVRE DE CUISINE. Pieds de pore, it la Ste. Menehould. Cotelettes de mouton, en cr6pinettes. Ailerons de dindons, it la Marechal. Attereaux de filets de merlans. Paupiettes de palais de boeuf. Boudins de faisan. DIX ENTREES. Saute de filets mignons de bieuf, aux tomates. Carre de mouton, en fricandeau. Filets de perdreaux, it la Zingara. Grives au genievre. Yol-au-vent de 16gumes. Saute de filets de volaille supreme. Aspic de homards, au beurre de Montpellier. Ris de veau glace, garni de choux de Bruxelles. DESSERT. Quatre corbeilles garnies de chasselas, poires et grenades. Douze tambours garnis de petits fours assortis. DEUX COMPOTES. Deux de poires. Deux de verjus. Une de marrons. Une d epine-vinette. Quatre assiettes de fruits confits. Douze assiettes de fruits glaces, au caramel.461 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION MENU, 1 SOS. 32 DOVER STREET, LONDON: Samedi, 16 Mars. SIR H. WILLIAMSON. POTAGES. it l’Imp6ratrice. X la Puree de pois verls. it l’Esturgeon it la Chinoise. POISSONS. Turbot X la Water. Truites X la Beaufort. Water-souchet de Limandes. HORS D’CEUVRES. de Niochi, au Parmesan, de White-Bait frits. BELEVES. Jambon aux epinards. Poulardes i\ la Chivry. FLANCS. Petite pifece de Boeuf, it l’Orleans. Selle d’agneau, it la Boy ale. ENTREES. Boudins de homard cardinal. Ris d’agneau, it la Toulouse. Chartreuse de cailles. Le vol-au-vent it la Nesle. Filets de canetons, aux petits pois. Supreme de volaille, asperges. Noisettes de veau, X la Luynes. Cotelettes de mouton, it la Dreux. SECOND SERVICE. ROTS. Levrauts. Oisillon. FLANCS. Spongada Napolitaine. Ramesquin en caisse. ENTREMETS. Pointes d’asperges, au beurre fondu. Asperges en branches. Petits pois it l’Anglaise. Petits pois it la Fran<;aisc. Aspic de homard, sur socle. Aspic en Bellevue, sur socle. 0<lufs de pluviers, sur socle. Buisson de praion, sur socle. Gel6e A la Montmorency. Gel6e Mac6doinc. Charlotte d’ananas. Bavaroise au chocolat. Croquembouches ii la Reine. Gateau de millefeuilles. Melon en nougat. Bisquit X la Florentine.462 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY DEJEUNER DE NOCES, Lundi, 2 Janvier, 1SI2. HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON. CAPTAIN EMBLETON. MENU. POTAGES. Madeira. a la Heine, Clair turtle, Printanier. Sherry. ENTREES. Cotelettes cle mouton, la Jardiniere. Saint Emilion. Petites bouchees t\ la Reine. Saint Julian. Galantine decoree. Jambon decore. Langue de bceuf a la gelee. P&tfe de faisans. Pates de pigeons. Chamhertin. Poulets rotis. Havt Sautcrne Mayonnaise de homards. Aspic de filets de soles. Salade de saison. ENTREMETS. Charlottes a la Parisienne. Champagne frappe. Gelee Macedoine. Chablis. Gelee au marasquin. Blancmanger. Gateau de Chantilly monte. Gateau de Breton monte. Gateau Napolitain. Gateau de Savoie. Chateau Margaux. Creme Bavaroise au Chateau Itauzan. chocolat. Creme religieuse, au cafe. Croquembouches d’oranges. Nougat mont6. GRACES. Two quart vanille cream. Two quart strawberry cream. Cognac et Kirsch. Two quart orange water. Arrac et llhum. Four dozen wafer. Six dozen rolls.463 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION BANQUET OF THE ROYAL 'AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF ENGLAND. London, November 9, 1822. MENU. POTAGES. Printanier aux quenelles. Bisque d’ecrevisses. HORS D’CETTVRES. Bouquet de crevettes. Anchois. Olives. RELEVES. Truite saumonee, sauce Genevoise et Hollandaise. Filets de boeuf, piques A la Richelieu. ENTREES. Petits pates a la Montglas. Cotelettes d’agneau, aux pointes d’asperges. Sorbets au rhum. Sorbets au Jdrseh. ROTS. Cailles bardees. Buisson de homards. Salade Romaine. ENTREMETS. Asperges en branches. Petits pois nouveaux, A l’Anglaise. Bavaroise aux fraises. Bombes glacees, t\ l’orange. DESSERT. Corbeilles de fruits. Amandes. Biscuits. Corbeilles de fleurs. VINS. Sherry superieur. Chateau Yquem. Chateau Margaux Champagne Clicquot, frappe. Oporto sup6rieur.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 464 MENU OF A BALL FOR 7,000 PERSONS. THIS MENU WAS SERVED AT THE PREFECT’S HOUSE (Prefecture de la Seine) * IN PARIS, IN DECEMBER 1823. POTAGES. Pates d’ltalie, au blond de veau. Puree de pois aux croutons. Tapioca 5, la vert-pre. Riz au lait d’amandes. 100 GROSSES PIECES CHAUDES. 25 Turbots, sauce Hollandaise. | 25 Saumons. sauce Genevoise. 25 Roastbeef, sauce de Madere. i 25 Dindes truffees, sauce ii la Perigueux. 200 ENTREES CHAUDES. 50 Cotelettes de mouton 50 Grenadins de filets de boeuf, sautees. : sauce de Madere. 50 Supremes de volaille, aux j 50 Ballotines de volaille, au trades. | riz. 100 ROTIS. 50 Faisans. | 50 Poulardes. 200 ENTREMETS DE LEGUMES 50 Asperges en branches, sauce I 50 Petits pois a la Frauyaise. au beurre. 50 Artichauts a la Lyonnaise. 50 Haricots verts. 200 ENTREMETS DE DOUCEUR CHAUDS. 50 Gateaux de semouille, au | 50 Puddings aux diplomates. Malaga. 50 Pommes Parisiennes. j 50 Poires au riz. FRO IDS. 120 GROSSES PIECES. 20 Galantiae sur socle. 20 Buissons de trades sursocle. 20 Jarnbon a la gelee. 20 Longes de veau garnies a la gelee. 20 Buissons d’ficievisses sur J 20 Noix de boeuf la gelee, sur socle. I socle.465 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 200 ENTREES FROIDES. 25 Pain de foie gras, ii la gelee. 25 Chaudfroids de perdreaux, bordurcs de gelee. 25 Salades de liomards, sauce 25 Salade llusse avec bordure mayonnaise. d’oeufs. Laitues. 26 Aspics gamis de filets de 25 Chaudfroids de poulets. lapereaux. 25 Salades de filets de soles, en 25 Salades de volailles -en bor- mayonnaise. dure. 200 ENTREMETS DE DOUCEUR. 25 Gelees d’oranges, garnies 25 Gelees de cerises, garnies de d’oranges. cerises. 25 Macedoines de fruits, au 25 Gel6es d'eau d’or, garnies de Champagne. ' fraises. 25 Bavaroises de chocolat et 25 Pain d’abricots, decores vanille en rubans. d’amandes. 25 Pains d’ananas, decores 25 Blanc-manger auxpistaches. d’amandes. 12 GROS PATE'S TRUFFES. 4 de Foie gras. | 4 de Yolaille. | 4 de Gibier. 18 PIECES MONTEES. 10 Grosses brioches. j 10 Gateaux Napolitains. 10 Nougat tl la Parisienne sur | 10 Baba, socle. 10 Biscuits de Savoie. J 10 Croquembouclies Genoises sur socle. 120 ENTREMETS DE PATISSERIE. 20 Genoises de pistaches. 20 Tartelettes de pommes. 20 Manons ;1 la creme. 100 Assiettes de sandwichs. 20 Manques au petit sucre. 20 Condes fourres. 20 Mirlitons. 100 Assiettes de pain, tl la Fran<;aise. EXTRA. 00 Salades de legumes, servies dans des saladiers.466 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY MENU OF A DINNER SERYED TO KING CHARLES X., AT ST. CLOUD, JTJLY 88, 1830. MENU. POTAGES. Riz a puree de navets. Chiffonnade de croutons. RELEVES. Tete de veau au vin de Madere. Truite a la polonaise. ENTREES. Vol-au-vent de puree de perdrix & l’Espagnole. Saute de filets de lapereau aux pois. Salmis de faisan au beurre et aux truffes. Petits pates d’oeufs a la creme de champignon. Ailes de poulet k la mar6chale. Saut6 de filets de saumon aux croutons k la Venitienne. Cailles desossees farcies de salpicon a l’ecarlate, a la gelee. Marbree de filets de poulardes aux olives. PLATS DE ROT. Perdreaux. Lapereaux. Poules de Caux. Levrault. ENTREMETS. Navets glaces. Concombre au blanc. Articliauts a l’estouffade. Creme au marasquin. Gelee d’orangfes. Petits pois. Haricots verts t\ l’anglaise. Beignets d’abricots. MOYENS. Bouchees de feuilletage. . . Sultane. Nougat d’abricots. Meringues.4(57 MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION ROYAL ALBERT HOTEL, DUBLIN, March 2S, I S31. Lieut.-General Sir John Shute, C B. MENU. FIB ST COURSE. Giblet and clear Spring soups. Flounder suche. Spitched eels. Stewed eels. Fried flounders. Filets de truites, A la Genevoise. Filets de soles, A la maxtre d’hotel. Salmon. Turbot. Whitebait. Croqxxettes de homards. Ris de veau, A la puree de pois. Filets de chevreuil, sauce poivrade. Quenelles de volaille aux champignons. Chickens A la Macedoine. Noix de veau, sauce tomates. Pigeon pie. Roast chickens. Ham. Bacon. Beans. Chine of mouton. SECOND COURSE. Ducklings. Leverets. Goslings. Petits pois A la Franr;aise. Mayonnaise de homards Souffle pudding. Gel6e A la Macedoine. Bavaroise aux fraises. Creme A l’ltalienne. Gelee au vin. Compote de fruits au riz. Gateau A la Napolitaine. Meringue A la creme. Trifle Pastry. Iced Pudding.468 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY MENU OF THE DINNER GIVEN BY THE CORPORATION OF LONDON TO THE EMPER® NAPOLEON III. April 19, 1855. POTAGES. Potage de tortue clair. Bisque d’ecrevisses. Potage de aids d’oiseaux chinois. Consomme de volaille. ENTREES CHAUDES. Cailles aux fines herbes. Cotelettes d’agneau aux haricots verts. Ruffs en caisses. Petites bouchees it la Reine. ENTREES FROIDES. Filets de truites it la Ravigote. Foies gras de Strasbourg. Gateau de ptarmigan aux truffes. Chaudfroid de becassines. Mayonnaise de turbot aux laitues. Blanquettes des volailles 4 la gelee. GROSSES PIECES. Paonneaux a l’liuperatrice. Hure de sanglier a la Bohemienne. Gros saumon a la Royale. Dinde en galantine it la Parisienne. Cochon de lait a la Napolitaine. Jambon de Salisbury au vin de Madere. Baron of beef. ENTREMETS. Buisson de truffes de P6rigord. Petits pois au naturel. GelSe aux fraises. Patisserie. Suedoise d’abricots. Baba it la Polonaise. Buisson d’ceufs des pluviers. Asperges en branches. Crime A, la vanille. Compote d’ananas. Brioche it la Saxonese. BTJEEET. Roast chickens. Roast beef. Roast lamb. Roast capons.THE DEFEAT OF COFFEE 469 COFFEE. How many writers have vaunted the good effects of coffee I Heroes, statesmen, and philosophers have bowed over their fili- gree cups; and Frederick of Prussia, Napoleon, Talleyrand, and Metternich have all acknowledged and felt the inspiration of the fragrant berry. There are various methods of preparing the infusion. The best coffee in the world is probably made in Paris ; though the very finest qualities of coffee come to the London market. The usual method of making the beverage in France is a. la Dubelmj, which consists in pouring boiling water on coffee placed in a porcelain or silver vase, colandered or pierced with very small holes. The first decoction is poured off, heated to boiling heat, and passed again through the coffee-pot, when a clear and exquisite coffee is produced. Not more than a full-sized tablespoonful of coffee should be allowed for each guest in making a small cup of coffee for after dinner. Here is a recipe of Dr. Roques’s for a cafe a la creme frappc a la glace. It is a delicious breakfast beverage during the summer heats. Make a strong infusion of Mocha, or Bourbon coffee; put it in a porcelain bowl, sugar it properly, and add to it an equal portion of boiled milk or one-third the quantity of rich cream. Surround the bowl with powdered ice. Coffee, it may be added, should be hot, clear, and strong, and, like every other good thing, should be taken in moderation. THE DEFEAT OF COFFEE. “The imports of coffee are steadily declining in favour of tea.”—Daily Paper. Alas, for Mocha ! well it may Look piteous and pout, For Tea is more than ever in, And Coffee’s going out. “ Dolteajam satis 1” Coffee cries “ ’Tis clear you will wrong go; You do not let your victims sleep, No more does Mr. Congo.” Said Congo, “ Coffee, you’re a fool, Your ruin’s past postponing; You’ve had your day, ’tis over now, ’Tis you that should be moaning ” (Moning).470 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY NOTES ON LAYING A TABLE IN THE ENGLISH STYLE. The manner of laying a table is nearly the same in all parts of the United Kingdom. A centre ornament, whether it be a plateau, an epergne, or a candelabrum, is found very convenient and contributes so much to the good appearance of the table that a dinner is seldom or never set out without some- thing of the kind. A very false taste is, however, often shown in centre ornaments. Strange, ill-assorted nosegays and bouquets of artificial flowers begin to droop or look faded among hot steams. Ornamental articles of family plate, carved, chased, or merely plain, can never be out of place, however old-fashioned. In desserts, richly-cut glass is ornamental, and the foliage and moss, in which the fruits are sometimes embedded, have a good effect. Fine white damask and a green cloth underneath are indispensable. Whether the dinner be of two or three courses, it is managed nearly in the same way. Two dishes of fish, dressed in different ways if suitable, should occupy top and bottom ; and two soups, a white and a brown, or a mild and a high seasoned, are best disposed on each side of the centrepiece; the fish sauces are placed between the centrepiece and the dish of fish to which each is appropriate; and this, with the decanted wines drunk during dinner, forms the first course. The second course at a purely English dinner, when there are three courses, consists of roasts and stews for the top and bottom ; turkey and fowls or fricandeaux, or ham garnished, or tongue for the sides, with small made dishes for the corners served in covered dishes. The third course consists of game, confectionery, the more delicate vegetables dressed in the French way; puddings, creams, jellies, See. Caraffes, with the tumblers .belonging to, and placed over them, are laid at proper intervals ; where hock, champagne, &c., &c., are served, they are handed round between the courses. When the third course is cleared away, cheese, butter, a fresh salad, or sliced cucumber, are usually handed round ; the finger- glasses precede the dessert. The dessert at an English table may consist merely of two dishes of fine fruit at top and bottom. Liqueurs are handed round at this stage, and the wines usually drunk after dinner are placed, decanted, on the table along with the dessert.NOTES ON CARVING 471 NOTES ON CARVING. NOTHING is more prejudicial than bad carving. A joint, ill- carved at first by one, is always disregarded by the other members; and frequently from this circumstance a joint of great weight and price is no longer presentable, and is left, to the loss of the establishment. In serving soup, one ladleful to each plate is sufficient. A steel knife applied to fish is likely to spoil the delicacy of its flavour; so that it should be helped with a silver slice or trowel, and be eaten with a silver knife and fork. Do not pour sauce over meat or vegetables, but a little on one side. In helping at table, never employ a knife where you can use a spoon. The fairest mode of cutting a ham, so as to serve fat and lean evenly, is to begin at a hole in the centre of the thickest part, and cut from it thin circular slices; by this means also the moisture and flavour of the ham are best preserved. The upper part of a roast sirloin of beef should be carved at the end, and never cut in the middle, unless you wish to destroy the joint in revenge. Be careful always to cut down straight to the bone, by which method you never spoil the joint, and help many persons with little meat; what remains looks well, and is good to eat. In carving a leg of mutton, slice it lightly, else, if you press too heavily, the knife will not cut, you will squeeze out all the gravy, and serve your guests with dry meat. Euskache Ude considers a saddle of mutton is usually carved contrary to taste and judgment. “To have the meat in the grain, pass your knife straight to one side of the chine, as close as possible to the bone : then turn the knife straight from you, and cut the first slice out, and cut slices lean and fat. By disengaging the slices from the bone in this manner, it will have a better appearance, and you will be able to assist more guests.” If you begin to Carve a joint in the middle, ihe gravy will run out on both sides, and the meat shrink and become dry, and be no more presentable Never pour gravy over white meat, as the latter should retain its colour. Of roasted fowl, the breast is the best part; in boiled fowl, the leg is preferable. The shoulder of a rabbit is very delicate; and the brain is a tit-bit for a lady. In helping roast pheasant or fowl, add some of the cresses with which it is garnished. The most elegant mode of helping hare is in fillets, so as not to give a bone, which would be a breach of good manners.472 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Before cutting up a wild duck, slice the breast, and pour over the gashes a few spoonfuls of sauce, composed of port wine or olaret (warmed), lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne pepper. The most delicate parts of a calf’s head are the bits under the ears, next the eyes, and the side next the cheek. If cray-fish be added to a fricasseed chicken (as in France), one of the fish should be placed on the top, in dishing, and served to the first guest. TRANSLATING THE MENU. Bbastgs Gurley, a noted wag, one day dropped into a cafe for dinner. The obsequious waiter had just flicked a bit of lint from his customer’s coat collar when Mr. Gurley opened out on him. “ Yes,” he said, glancing at the menu, “ you may bring me some eggs blushing like Aurora.” “ Beg pardon, sir,” explained the waiter, “ it’s not on the bill.” “ Isn’t, eh ? What’s this, ceufs a Vaurora 1 ” “ Oh, yes,” replied the young man, blushing and shifting somewhat uneasily. “ And I feel like having some breeches in the royal fashion, with velvet sauce.” The waiter turned red, white, and blue. “ Got you again,” chuckled Mr. Gurley. “ Well, I suppose you call it culottes a la royale, sauce veloute.” “ Oh, that! Yes, sir ; yes, sir; ” and the waiter briskly rattled the cutlery around the plate as though he would fain drown Mr. Gurley’s voice. “ Be sure you bring a stew of good Christians.” “ Now you are joking,” mildly expostulated the waiter, with a sickly smile. “ Not a bit of it, man. See here on your bill. Compote de ions chretiens.'’ “ O—ah—ugh,” gulped the waiter. “ And a mouthful of ladies.” “ Eh ? ” “ BoucUe de dannes—quick, help—a glass of water—dash it in his face ! ” But Mr. Gurley was too late. The waiter was in a dead swoon, from which he never recovered until later in the afternoon.WINES 478 WINES. ORDER OF THE SERVING OF WINES. L'ordre lies boissons est des plus temperees aux plus fumeuses et aux plus parfumdes.—Brillat-Samrin. Mild wines the first; the heady should come late! With Hors-d'oeuvres and Soups. Sherry, Madeira, or Marsala. With Oysters and Fish. Chablis, Graves, Sauterne, Still Hocks, or Moselles. With Removes and Entrees. Burgundies or Bordeaux : such as Corton, Clos-Yougeot, liomaniie, Bornard, &c.; St. Julien, Bordeaux vieux, Leoville, Lafitte, &c. With the Second Course, Roasts, Dressed Vegetables, and Savoury Entremets. Sparkling Champagne, Sillery, or Moselle. With the Sweet Entremets. Higher brands of Champagne. With Dessert and Fruit. Sweet wines, such as Malaga, Frontignon, Muscat, Alicante, Malmsey, Tokay, Oporto, &c.474 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY NOTES ON WINES FOR THE TABLE. The wine required for dinner should be on table before dinner is served, to be agreeably presented to the consumer, and should be of the canonical temperature, it being generally conceded that red wines should be warm as compared with white wines, which should be cooler, and, as some prefer, even iced or refreshed on the ice before being drunk. To arrange this properly obviously necessitates a little time. Most wines are considerably improved by being decanted or jugged. It is calculated that the ordinary wine-drinker wastes about one-third of the value of his wine, and sacrifices a considerable proportion of his enjoyment thereof, by allowing it to be served “ in the black bottle.” Not only has wine, and especially old wine, no chance of developing or expan ding those ethers, flavours, and bouquets, which are in truth the enjoyable characteristics of good liquor; but, by continually “ sloshing ” the bottle up and down as each glass is filled, the consumer unavoidably disturbs the sediment, of which the connoisseur is naturally most desirous to get rid, seeing that it is a deposit induced by an incipient fermentation to which all pure wines are liable, whatever their cost or character may happen to be. In point of fact, the higher class wines are probably those that require the most careful handling of a skilful butler or wine-steward. Among wines it is usual to place those of France first, and Champagne first among the wines of France. It was in the neighbourhood of Epernay that the first sparkling wine was made. The process of manufacture has not changed much since the beginning. Both red and white grapes are grown in the Marne. The red gives a drier wine, the white a softer one; and the two are generally mixed together, so as to make a satisfactory average. Great care has to be exercised in gathering the red grapes, and much swiftness used in pressing them, so that none of the colouring matter contained in the skin be communicated to the juice. In hot years, like 1874, the grapes are so ripe that they easily burst when they are gathered, and during the pressing some of the pigments of colour from the skin commu- nicate that light pink hue which distinguishes vintages like 1874 ; but, on the other hand, hot seasons usually give an exceptional wine. Immediately after pressing, the juice is stored in casks and directly undergoes the first stage of fermentation, after which it is racked so as to be freed from the heavier lees. The area that can be planted as vineyards in the Champagne district is rather limited, and as the demand has gone on increa- sing at a very rapid rate, prices have been forced up, and other districts of France have tried their hand at making sparkling wine. Thus we have seen sparkling Burgundy, sparkling Chablis, sparkling Saumur—all excellent wines for the prices they are sold atLIST OF WINES 475 LIST OF BEST KNOWN BRANDS OF WINES. CHAMPAGNE. Ackerman-Laurance. Ayala et Cie. Binnet et Cie. Bollinger Cabinet. Bouvier fibres (Swiss). Clicquot, Eugene. Clicquot, Yeuve. Dagonet. Delbeck et Cie. Deutz et Geldermann. Due de Montebello. Dnclerc, Carte Noire. Ehrmann freres. Fleur de Sillery. Gamier (De) et Cie.* Gieslcr et Cie. Gotdet, Geo., Sillery. Hau et Cie. Heidsieck et Cie. Holden (de Lossy). Irroy, Ernest. Jockey Club. Koch fils. Lanson.pere et fils. Lecourt & Co. I Mauler, Louis (Swiss). Melnotte et fils. Mercier et Cie. Moet et Chandon. Mumm, G. H. et Cie. Mumm, Jules et Cie. Paschoud freres et Cie.(Swiss). Peri net et fils. Perrier Jouet et Cie. Piper, H. et Cie. Pommery et Greno. Roederer, Louis. Roederer, Theophile, et Cie. Roger, Paul. Roper freres et Cie. Ruinard, pere et fils. Seligmann et Cie. Sillery mousseux. St. Hermitage mousseux. St. Marceaux et Cie. Strub, F. et Cie. (Swiss). Van der Vecken. Verdelot et Cie. Wachter et Cie. CLARETS—BORDEAUX. The name of Claret is practically given to all red wine coming from France, with the exception of Burgundy and Roussillon, which form small classes apart. The best clarets are those grown in the Gironde, but there are many other departments which furnish claret to Bordeaux, to Paris, and to foreign parts. There is no single district in France capable of producing all the wine drunk as claret, so the merchant has to buy large quantities from the Herault, Aude, Gard, Gironde, Cliarente, Cher, Burgundy, and Anjou districts. One wine is rich in colour and body; another is thin; a third, like the Charente wine, is “ fresh.” These are blended in bond, and make up a very pleasant, drinkable wine, which has the great advantage of being moderate in price, principally because it is not the produce of one single district. Claret is made in a very simple way. The red grapes are gathered, taken to the farmhouses, and crushed retween two grooved cylinders. 9 John Searcy & Sots, Connaught Stieet, London.476 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY CRUS DE Bordeaux. Brane Mouton. Brane Cantenac. Brunet Poujeaux. Cantenac. Casse-Bigeon. Chateau Montpelous. Chateau Barregre. Chateau Batailley. Chateau Beaumont. Chateau Beauregard. Chateau Belair. Chateau Cordeillan. Chateau Calon. Chateau Citran. Chateau Clos Destournel. Chateau Dulamont. Chateau Durfort. Chateau Fleurennes. Chateau Grand Mousses. Chiiteau Haut Brion. Chateau d’Issan. Chateau Labarbe. Chateau Lafite. BORDEAUX. Chateau la Font Rochet. Chiiteau Rochet. Chateau Larose. Chiiteau Latour. Chateau Pauillac. Chateau L6oville. Chateau Margaux. Chateau Milon. | Chateau Montrose. Chateau Mouton. Chateau Rothschild. Chateau Pontet Canec. Chateau Pelon. Chateau St. Julien. Chateau Segur. Chateau Tources. Cotes Combleries. Cristoly Medoc. Margeaux Paveil. Medoc. St. Emilion. Ste. Estephe. St. Julien. St. George. BOURGOGNE—BURGUNDY. CRUS DE Beauj olais. Beaune. Bourgogne Ordinaire Chamberlin. Chassange. Chiiteau Grille. Clairion. Clos de Cortons. Clos la Roche. Clos St. Georges. Clos du Tart Clos Vougeot. Corton. Cote d’or. Cote rotie. Dole. Fleury. Gevrey. Rautvflliers. Hermitage. Juli6nas. Latage. Macon de Dijon. Macon Ordinaire. Morgon. Musigny. Moulin a Vent. Nuits. Pitoy. Pommard. Eichebourg. Romance. RoussiUon. Santenay. Savigny. St. Fleurv. St, Paul.' Thorins. Veroilles. Volnay. V olnay- Sa ut eno t Vosne.477 LIST OF WINES FRENCH WHITE WINES. Arbois. Barsac. Bonimes. Buzet. Caillon. Chablis. Chateau Guirand. Chateau d’Yquem. Epernay. Graves. Haut Sauterne. La Goutte d’Ch\ Langon. Le Vigneau. Loupiac. Martilac. Meursault. Montrachet. Muscat Lunel. Muscat Frontignan. Pouilly. Preignac. Sauterne. | Sillery. St. Croix. St. Pez. Villenave d’Oron. GERMAN WINES. The wines of Germany are generally dearer than those of France, owing chiefly to the large proportion of bad seasons in the Rheingau. The best are the superior Hocks and Moselles, still and sparkling, known to consumers, such as Johannisberger, Steinberger, Marcobriinner, Hochheimer, Niersteiner, &c. LIST OF GERMAN WINES. A mm ers weiher. Ahrweiler. Benslieimer. . Becksteiner. Bodenheimer. Budenheimer. Dattenberger. Deidesheimer. Durbacher. Dernauer. Diirscheimer. Eltviller. Erbacher Eitelsbacher. Erdener. Feuersberger. Frohner. Forster. Geisenheimer. Gebweiler. Gerlachheimer. Graefenberger. Graacher. Griinhiiuser. Hallgarter. Hattenheimer. Hcimersheimer. Hochheimer. Hasberger. Honigberger. Ingelheimer. Jacobsberger. J ohannisberger. Josephshofer. Kastelberger. Katzenberger. Kischberger. Koenigsbacher. Klingenberger. Kreuznacher. Laubenheimer. Lieser Mosel. Liebfrauenmilch. Marcobrunner. Marbacher. Markgriitier. Minheimer. Moselbliimchen. Moselwein. Marienthaler. Mursbacher. Neuberger. Neckenheimer. Neroberger. Niersteiner. Oppenheimer. Obermemmeler. Reichholzheimer. Reinsbacher Rauenthaler. Rehbacher. Riidesheimer. Rippinger. Rosenberger. Rieslingwein. Ruppertsberger. Saalecker. Scharzberger. Scharlaclifcerger. Steinberger. Steinwein. Tiirkheimer. Trittenheimer. Ungsteiner. Wachenheimer. Wadenhehner. Weinheimer. Wertheimer. Wiltinger. Zeller. Zeltlinger.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 478 VINS ITALIENS—ITALIAN WINES. Italy produces a very large quantity of wine, which is rapidly becoming familiar in England. Albano. Castellamare. Moscato di Asti. Asti. Castiglione. Moscato Scgesta. Alicante. Chianti. Xebbiolo. Asti moscato. Coi-vino. Passito. Asti rosso. Crignolino. Piana di Mascali Avellino. Dolcetto. Poinino. Barbera. Erbaluce. Riposco. Bari. Falerno. ltufino. B arietta Gallinera. Siracusa Bracchetto. Gicrace. Spanna. Barolo. Lagrima bianco. Tokay di Asti. Bellaggio. Marsala. Valpolicella. Calabria. Milazo. V ermuto. Calufo. Monte Deliino. Vino di iEtna. Capri. Monteserrato. Vino Santissimo. VINS GHEOS—GREEK WINES. Achaja. K alliste. Xaupacos. Achilles. Korfu. X estor. Camerita. Lacrimae. Odysseus. Cyparieria. Lnbano. Samos. Kiia. Mavrodapkane. Vino di Bacco. Helena. Mont Enos. Vino doro. Homer. Moscato. Vino roso. VINS D’ESPAGNE ET VINS D’AUSTRALIE SPANISH AND AUSTRALIAN WINES. Alicante. Mont ilia. Rivato. Amontillado. Moscatel. Rivelsaltes. Barrocas. Mediz. Rueda. Bucellas. Malvoisir. San Lucar. Eondillon. Marsala. Sherry. Chasselas. Miranda. Tarragona. Madeira. Olivenza. Tint ilia. Madaro. Palma. Valencia. Malaga. Oloroso. Vinho Anglica. Sauvignon. Paj arete. Xeres. Jeniine . : Porto. j Zamora.479 PART VI. CLASSICAL BILL OF FARE QUOTATIONS. APPROPRIATE EXTRACTS FOR THE MENU COMPILER. “God sendeth and giveth both mouth and the meat.”— Timer. “ Tell me whom you live with, and I will tell you what you arc.”—Spanish Proverb. “ Cheerful looks make every dish a feast.”—Massinger. “There may be the same vitiated taste in the choice of friends as of food.”— Bacon. “ Bread is the staff of life.” —Swift, Tale of a Tub. “You are welcome, worthy sir, as I have words to bid you, and you shall find it so in all that I can do.”—Shakespeare. “Ladies, a general welcome.”—Henry VIII. i. 4. “ Sit down and feed, welcome to our table.” <- As You like It, ii. 8. “ Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.” Macbeth iff. 4. “ Let's see your list of the larder, then, I ask it as a favour. I always match my appetite to my bill of fare.” She Stoops to Conquer. “ The landlord told him that his palate should be suited, for whatever the air, earth, and sea produced, of birds, beasts, or fish, the hotel was abundantly supplied with.”—Don Quixote. “ Egad, we have a trifling foolish banquet toward.” Borneo and Juliet, i. 5. “To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast, fits a dull fighter but a keen guest.”—Henry IV. iv. 2. “ Coine, let’s to dinner.”—Heni'y IV. iv. 2. “ If you have a loitering servant, send him of thy errand just before his dinner.”—Fuller. “ Coquetry whets the appetite ; Flirtation depraves it.”—Ik Marvel. “ And there, merrily seated in a ring, Partook a choice repast.”—Massinger. “ A table richly spread, in regal modes, With dishes piled, and meats of noblest sort And savour.”—Milton. “ Let him have food and wine; he has ridden hard, And lacks refreshment.”—Sir Henry Taylor. “ As he sat at his meal the musick play’d sweet. With the choicest of singing his joys to compleat.” Percy Beliques.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 480 “ * Prepare, then, a feast, and none of the least, For we will be merry,’ quoth he,”—Ilobin Hood. “ Man, Nature’s guest by invitation sweet. Receives from her both appetite and treat; But, if he play the glutton, and exceed, His benefactress blushes at the deed.”—Comber. “ What needes of dainty dishes to devise, Of comely service or courtly trayne.” HORS-D’CEUVRES. “ He was a bold man that first ate an oyster.” Dean Swift, Conversation. “ Those oysters, too, that look so plump.”—Tom Hood. “ The treasure of an oyster.”—Antony and Cleopatra, i. 5. “ Item—anchovies and sack.”—Henry TV. ii. 4. “ They call for eggs and butter.”—Henry IV. ii. 1. “ Dishes alike delightful and appetising.”—Leigh Hunt. SOUP. “ A hasty plate of soup.”— Winfield Scott. “Soupof the evening, beautiful soup.”—Alice in Wonderland. “ Of all the things I ever swallow. Good, well-dressed turtle beats them hollow; It almost makes me wish, I vow, To have two stomachs, like a cow.”—Hood. “ Spoon meat—bespeak a long spoon.”— Comedy of Errors. “ That’s meat and drink to me.”—Merry Wives of Windsor. “ Gravy ! gravy ! gravy ! ”—2 Henry IV. “Twenty turtles.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, ii. 1. “ The imperious seas breed monsters ; for the dish.” Cymbeline, iv. 2. FISH. “ To change the cod’s head for the salmon’s tail.” Othello, ii. 1. “ Groping for trouts.”—Measure for Measure, i. 2. “ Two white herrings.”—King Lear, iii. 1. “From the banks of the Wye, and sandy-bottom’d Severn.” 1 Henry IV. iii. 1. “ Cry to it, as the Cockney did to the eels, when she put them i’ the paste alive.”—King Lear, ii. 4. “ There’s no meat like them; I could wish my best friend at such a feast.”—'Union of Athens, i. 2. “ Amidst the tumult of fish, flesh, and fowl, And vegetables all in masquerade.”—Byron.CLASSICAL BILL OF FARE QUOTATIONS 481 “ Master, I marvel how the fishes live in the sea. Why, as men do a-land ; the great ones eat up the little ones.” Shakespeare, Pericles “ Green herbs, red pepper, mussels, saffron, Soles, onions, garlic, roach, and dace, All these you eat at Terra’s tavern In that one dish of bouillabaisse.”—Thackeray. “ I’ll make for fish.”—The Tempest. “ Slice, I say ! slice ! that’s my humour.” Merry Wives of Windsor. ENTREES. “ Let them bring stomachs, there’s no want of meat, sir. Portly and curious viands are prepared To please all kinds of appetites.”—Massinger. “ How say you a’ to a fat tripe broiled ? ” Taming of the Shrew, iv. 3. “ To swallow gudgeons ere they’re catched, And count their chickens ere they’re hatched.” Butler, Ruclibras. “What is’sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.” Tom Brown. “ Oysters pickled and stewed and baked, Oysters in soups and pies, Oysters scolloped and curiously faked, And oysters in patties and frys.”—Thackeray. “ Some pigeons, Davy, . . . and any little tiny kickshaws, tell William cook.”—2'Henry IV. v. 1. “ Come, we have hot venison pasty to dinner.” Merry Wives of Windsor, i. 2. “ Which is he that killed the deer ? ” “ Let’s present him to the Duke, like a Roman conqueror.” As You Like It, iv. 2. “ Epicurean cooks sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite.” Antony and Cleopatra, ii. 2. “ Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his appetite ” Timon of Athens, iv. 3. “ You would eat chickens i’ the shells.” -Troilus and Cressida. “ What, all my pretty chickens ? ”—Macbeth. “ The daintiest that they taste.”—2 Henry IV. “ What say’st thou to a hare ? ”—1 Henry IV. ROAST AND BOILED. “Item—a capon.”—Henry IV. ii. 4. “ The roasted ox with the pudding in his belly.”—Henry 1V. ii. 4. “ I can cut a caper.”—Twelfth Night. “ And I can cut the mutton to it.”—Twelfth Night.482 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY “ Now is the woodcock near.”—Twelfth Night, i. v. “ A turkey cock—’tis no matter, There’s no sauce for it.”—Henry IV. “ I have a pheasant! cock or hen ! ”—Winter's Tale. “ Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey cock.” Henry V. v. 1. “O dainty duck ! ”—Midsummer Night's Dream, v. 7. “ Like a full-acorned boar.”—Cymbeline, ii. 5. “ Silence is only commendable in a neat’s tongue dried.” Merchant of Venice, i. 1. “Ihave a gammon of bacon.”—1 Henry IV. ii. 1. “Are there no young pigeons?”—2 Henry IV. v. 1. “ A dish that I do love to feed upon.” Tanning of the Shrew, iv. 5. “ There is a fowl without a feather.”—Comedy of Errors, iii. 1. “A pound of man’s flesh is not so estimable, Profitable neither, as flesh of mutton.”—ShaJtespcarc. “ Look to the baked meats, good Angelica, Spare not for cost.”—Romeo and Juliet. “ Your labouring people think, beyond all question, Beef, veal, and mutton better for digestion.”—Byron. “ The strong table groans Beneath the smoking sirloin stretched immense.”—Thomson. “ Now goose and turkey come, and hare, And apple-pie and custard, And chicken and asparagus, And Yorkshire ham and mustard.”—Peter Pindar. “ Oh! the roast beef of Old England, And, oh ! the old English roast beef.”—Fielding. “ Carve him for the gods.”—Julius Ccesar. “ What say you to a piece of beef and mustard \ ” Tanning of the Shrew, iv. 5. “ Come you to seek the lamb here ? ”—Measure for Measure. VEGETABLES AND SALADS. “ Good cabbage, good cabbage.”—Merry Wives of Windsor. “ You can eat a leek.”—Henry V. v. 1. “ Salad was born to do me good.”—2 Henry IV. iv. 10. “Let the sky rain potatoes.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, v. 4. “ The roll ! where’s the roll ? ”—2 Henry IV. iii. 2. “ Oh, green and glorious! oh, herbaceous treat! ’Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat ; Back to the world he’d turn his fleeting soul, And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl! ”—Sydney Smith. “ For if you do but taste this cold, 'Twill make your spirits rise.”—Burns.CLASSICAL BILL OF FARE QUOTATIONS 488 SWEETS AND DESSERT. “ Puddings and flapjacks moreover.”- Pericles, Prince of Tyro. “My wife desired some damsons.”—Henry IT. ii. 1. “ The fig of Spain.”—Henry 1 V. iii. (i. “ Hang him, rogue, lie lives on stewed prunes and dried cakes.” - Henry IV. iv. 1. “ To pick a salad.”—Henry VI. iv. 10. “ You Banbury cheese.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, i. 1. “ My Aqua Vitie.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, ii. 1. “ Things sweet to taste, prove indigestion sour.”—Shakespeare. “ While tumbling down the turbid stream, Lord love us, how we apples swim ! ”—1). Mallett. “ Wouldst thou eat, both eat thy cake and have it ? ” G. Herbert. “ Sir Toby. Dost thou think, because thou art virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale ? Clown. Yes, by Saint Anne ! and ginger shall be hot i’ the mouth too.”—Twelfth Night. “ After-dinner talk Across the walnuts and the wine.” Tennyson, The Miller's Daughter. “ A surfeit of the sweetest things.” Midsummer Night's Dream. “ A piece of ice ! ”—Taming of the Shrew. “ Trifles as light as air.”—Othello. “ There’s half-a-dozen sweets.”—Love's Labour's Lost, v. 2. The queen of curds and cream.”—1 Vinter's Tale, iv. 3. “ Hercules did shake down mellow fruit.”—Coriolanus, iv. 6. “ Feed him with apricots and dewberries; With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries.” Midsummer Night’s Dream, iii. 1. “ There’s a medlar for thee, eat it.”—Timon of Athens, iv. 3. “ Meaning thereby that grapes were made to eat, and lips to open.”—As You Like It, v. 1. SAVOURIES. “ To make the matter savoury.”—ITamlet. “ We’ll mend our dinners here.”— Comedy of Errors. “ The daintiest that they taste.”—2 Henry IV. “ Pretty little tiny kickshaws.”—2 Henry 1V. WINES. “ Claret is the liquor for boys ; port for men ; but he who aspires to be a hero must drink brandy.” Boswell, Life of Johnson. 31484 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY “If on thy theme I rightly think, There are five reasons why men drink : Good wine, a friend, because I’m dry; Or least I should say by-and-by, Or any other reason why.”—II. Aldrich. “ Drink to me only with thine eyes, And I will pledge with mine; Or leave a kiss but in the cup. And I’ll not look for wine.” Ben Jonsun, The Forest. “ You cannot judge the liquor from- the lees.” Tennyson, Queen Mary. “ For in my youth I never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood.” As You Lilie It. “ I’ll warrant she’ll prove an excuse for the glass.”—Sheridan. “ And as he drains his draughts of Rhenish.”—Hamlet, i. 4. “ A cup of wine that’s brisk and fine.” Merry Wivgg of Windsor. “ Your excellent sherries.”—Henry IV. iv. 3. “ Brave Burgundy.”—Henry VI. iii. 3. “Why so very, very merry? Is it your conscience, or your One-and-seven sherry ? ”—Bab Ballads. “ A little learning is a dangerous thing; Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring.”—Pope. “ I drink no more than a sponge.”—Rabelais. “ Now I praise the genial hostess Who prepares the toothsome dinner.’’ “ The best of the tables and the best of the fare.”—Clough. “ Coffee, which makes the politician wise, “ And see through all things with his half-shut eyes.” Pope, Rape of the Loch. “ Enough is good as a feast.”—Ray, Proverbs. “ Fate cannot harm me, I have dined to-day.”—Sydney Smith. “He calls for wine; ‘ a health,’ quoth he.” Taming of the Shrew, iii. 2. “ A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner.’’ All’s Well that Ends Well, ii. 4. “ Tea, thou soft, thou sober sage.”—Cibber. “ The sober berry’s juice the slaves bear round.”—Byron. “ Give me a cigar.”—Byron. “ I will make an end of my dinner. There’s pippins and cheese to come.”—Merry 1 Vines of Windsor. “Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.’’ Macbeth.FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 485 PART VII. FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES. THE WORKS OF DR. WILLIAM KITCHENER AND DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON. Dr. William Kitchiner was born in London in 1775, and died February 26, 1827. He is described by biographers as a “ mis- cellaneous writer," but his interest to us depends entirely upon his having at one time or another written a book on culinary matters, which he styled “ The Cook’s Oracle,” and which earned a reputation that it has maintained undiminished up to the present time. This book is before me as I write, and as it was published in William Gunter’s time (1827—the same year that Dr. Kitchiner went over to the majority), and William Gunter afterwards published a book which he styled “ The Confectioner’s Oracle,” as a “ companion ” to Dr. Kitchiner’s, so he himself announced, it may be safely conjectured that the work of one was equally suitable for the culinary “profession” as the other, and that “ The Cook’s Oracle ” was not for family use only. At any rate, it was regarded with so much respect by the late William Gunter, who should be considered an authority, that he has quoted its doctrines extensively, for possibly even Gunter was impressed by the learned doctor, even to the extent of believing him to be a professional cook by virtue of his medical knowledge and endow- ments. And Dr. Kitchiner was a professed cook in every sense of the word, for not only did he study the chemistry of cooking in all its details, but he actually cooked and ate of every dish, sauce, or anything else that he prepared himself, or of which he published the recipe, so as to ensure three great points—namely, that the taste was up to the mark, and the food wholesome and economical: matters that are not always observed by the first- class chefs of to-day! In Dr. Kitchiner’s writings there is a good deal to amuse, even if there is not much to instruct us ; at any rate, though only a trifle be gained, yet nothing can be lost by a little study of our ancient gastronomer’s work. He tells us that it is not right to say that a medical man cannot write a book upon cookery if he is not a practical cook. By an attentive consideration of the “rudiments of cookery,” and the respective recipes, a novice in the business of the kitchen may work with facility and certainty of success, and soon become an expert. Dr. Kitchiner was much assisted in his labours byPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 48f) Mr. Henry Osborne, the excellent cook to Sir Joseph Banks, who was then President of the Royal Society, who had been a great traveller in his time, besides having journeyed round the world, where he picked up some foreign novelties and tastes like other epicures. Several books upon cookery have been written by physicians:—Sir Kenelm Digby, one of the physicians to Charles I.; Sir Theodore Mayerne, a physician to Henry IV. (in Paris), James I., and afterwards to Charles I.; Professor Bradley, Dr. Hill, Dr. Le Cointe, Dr. Hunter, and othei-s. He says that a physician, who studies the practice as well as the science of the thing, is the best authority on this subject of cookery; but if we ask whether a woman can write a book on cookery, we must see what Dr. Samuel Johnson says on this subject : — “ Some people have a foolish way of not minding, or pretend- ing not to mind, what they eat; for my part, I mind my belly”— and he had one to mind too—“ very studiously and very carefully, and I look upon it that he who does not mind his belly will hardly mind anything else.” And then, again, lie once observed to his friends : “ I could write a better book-of cookery than has ever yet been written ; it should be a book on philosophical principles; I would tell what is the best bucher’s meat, the proper seasons of different vegetables, and then, how to roast, and to boil, and to compound.” “ ‘ Mrs. Glasse’s Cookery Book,’ wdiich is reckoned the best,” said Mr. Dilly, the publisher, “ was written by Dr. Hill.” “Well, sjr, this shows,” continued Johnson, “how much better the subject of cookery may be treated by a philosopher ; but you shall see what a book of cookery I shall make, and shall agree with Mr. Dilly for the copyright.” Miss Seward—Johnson’s housekeeper—observed, “ That would be Hercules with the distaff, indeed ! ” “ No, madam,” replied Johnson, snuffily : “ women can spin very well, but they cannot make a good book of cookery.” Women have made a few of them, though, in later years, and very excellent books they are - being practical if not philoso- phical or Johnsonian. Boswell says of this Johnson : “ never knew a man who relished good eating more than he did ; when at table he was absorbed in the business of the moment, nor would he, unless in very high company, say one word, or even pay the least attention to what was said by others, until he had satisfied his appetite,” which was no trifling matter, we are told ; so that, if being a thoroughbred glutton and an epicure as well qualifies a man for giving an opinion on cookery, surely Dr Johnson’s remarks may be taken as evidence enough.• • n .FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 487 ANTONIN CAREME, 1784 1888. Antonin Careme—or, to give him his full title, Marie-Antonin Careme was a chef of whom all cooks should feel proud ; for, as a French historian tells us, although he rose from nothing, having been “ suddenly deserted in his childhood by his parents, in an agony of destitution ” —yet he rose, by his own magni- ficent talents, from the lowest condition to the highest, to be one of the greatest of chefs and to administer to the tastes and bodily requirements of Talleyrand, Rothschild, the Emperor Alexander of Russia, our King George the Fourth, and many others. “ The name of Careme,” says Larousse, in his “ Dictionnaire Universelle,” “has become proverbial to designate, in a manner, the ideal of a perfect cook. Careme was not only a practitioner of the first water, but was also deeply learned in the culinary art, and all that appertains to it. He studied for a long time the ancient cookery of Rome when she was unequalled for her lavish luxury and munificence, but of their table productions he expresses himself unfavourably. He comments in high terms upon their table decorations, cups, bowls, flowers, music, and all that, but of their dishes he says nothing of a noteworthy character.” M. Antonin Careme was born at Paris in 1784, and as a youth attracted the attention of M. Laguipiere, who took him in hand as a lad, and sowed the seeds In him that produced such splendid results. This great and generous service was not forgotten by Careme, and it is thus that he memorialises his friend and patron :—- “ To the Memory of Laguipiere. “Rise, oh illustrious shade of Laguipiere ! Hear the words of a man who was thy devout admirer and pupil. Thy extra- ordinary talents have brought down upon you the hatred and persecution of those who ought to esteem you in recognition of thy noble efforts for the perfection of thine art,. But what am I saying? Is it fitting for a man of lalent to enjoy in peace the fruit of his mental labours ? Have I not had a pitiable experience of it.' O vicissitude! 0 ignorance ! 0 Laguipiere, infamous calumny has indeed surrounded thee with tribulation—on ac- count of which thou hast been forced to quit thy beautiful country, and go to Serve, in Italy, a powerful man for whom you recently made delicacies in the Elys6e-Bourbon. Thou hast followed thy king into Russia ; but, alas ! by a, most deplorable fatality amongst military pomps, thou hast perished ; thy hands and feet frozen by the frightful climate of the north. You were compelled to sit without moving behind the carriage of your king, longing to quit this murderous land ; but, alas 1 implacablePRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 488 Death was already knocking at the door. Arrived at Wilna, thy generous prince was lavish with his gold to save you, but thy dying body could no longer take nourishment. “ Oh, my master! thou hast lived persecuted and, to com- plete the sorrowful chapter, thou hast died in agony a thousand times more cruel than hunger, or the icy cold of the north. “ 0 grand Laguipiere ! upon this solemn day, accept the public homage of a faithful pupil. Yes, in spite of thy enviers, I will associate your name with my works. Already, in my works I have quoted you with pride, and this day, so dear to my heart, 1 league with your memory the best of them all. This will bear witness in the future to the elegance and sumptuosity of the culinary art in the eighteenth century ; and, if Yatel is rendered illustrious, by a sense of honour dear to every man of merit, thy unhappy end, 0 Laguipiere, renders thee well worthy of being also illustrious. It was due to thy sense of honour that made you willing to follow your prince into Russia, and .you were then a witness to the disasters by which you yourself were struck down. But, alas ! you of all people ought to have died in Paris. Thy white hairs seemed to ensure for you a better fate ; yet you shared the sad lot of our veterans, and the honour of our martial ranks, perishing of hunger and of cold under the frigid sky of Russia. “ 0 Laguipiere 1 may thy remains rest peacefully in the tomb ; thy renown has revenged all thy injuries.” Careme adds to this elegy the following note:—“ In the frightful campaign of 1812 we lost a great number of cooks belonging to the marshals of France and ministers of Napoleon. Of more than twenty men who composed the personal domestic staff of the Duke de Narbonne only two escaped from this terrible catastrophe.” This pitiful story of Laguipiere is worth recording, but to what Careme alludes as the infamous calumnies and persecution that drove him from his country we are unable to discover. Apparently cooks are quite as subject to scandal as their masters, and often more so, and that probably with greater justice than it would at all times be convenient to acknowledge. We are told that Careme was illustrious by descent, “ for his ancestors had served in the household of a Pope, who himself made more sauces than saints, Leo X.” But Careme was one of so poor and so numerous a family, that when he came into the world he was no more welcome than Oliver Goldsmith was. Careme, it is said, studied under various great masters of the kitchen, but perfected his studies under Boucher, the chef to Prince Talleyrand. The glory of CarCme was crowned with that of Napoleon. Those two individuals were great men at the same time, but the glory of one will, perhaps, be a little more enduring than that of the other. In the days of the Empire—“the era ofFAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 489 the greatness, of the achievements, and of the reflections of Careme”—the possession of him was as eagerly contested by the rich as that of a nymph by the satyrs. “ He was alternately the glory of Talleyrand, the boast of Lavalette, and the pride of the Saxon ambassador. In their houses, too, his hand was as often on his pen as on the handle of his casserole; and inspira- tion never visited his brain without the call being duly registered in his note-book, with reflections thereon highly philosophical and gastronomic.” But Careme appears to have been of a rather capricious nature, and passed from kitchen to kitchen as the bee wings from flower to flower, and possibly also equally in quest of “ honey.” The Emperor Alexander dined with Talleyrand, and forthwith he seduced Careme; the seduction money was £100 a month, and all culinary expenses. But Careme did not yield without a little exhibition of coyness. “ He urged his love for study, his desire to refine the race (of chefs) of which he made himself the model, his love for his country,” and, possibly, a lively recollec- tion of the sufferings of Laguipicre in Russia. Whilst the Emperor was baiting his hook to catch Careme, that gentleman started off to Vienna with Lord Stewart, taking care, however, to leave a trail by which he could be followed. Count Orloff was soon set off upon his track, and, after following the artful worthy to London and Paris, persuaded him at last to do the Emperor Alexander the honour of taking the head of the Imperial kitchen. But he did not stop in Russia very long, for his book of expenses was subject to supervision, which gave him great offence, and he flung up his appointment in disgust. Careme repaired to France, and entered the service of the Princess Bagration, and served the table of that whimsical lady to such good effect that she dubbed him, before her gratified friends, as “ The Pearl of Cooks ” (“ La Perle des Cuisiniers ”). This princess ate herself into a permanent indigestion, and Careme then transferred his attachment to the English ambas- sador at the court of Vienna. “ There, every morning, seated in his magnificent kitchen, Careme received the visit of ‘ Milor Stewart,’ who seldom left him without presents and encourage- ments. Indeed, these rained upon the immortal artist. The Emperor Alexander had consented to have Careme’s projects in culinary architecture dedicated to him, and, with notice of consent, sent him a diamond ring, which Prince Walkonski placed on his finger.” Two years before George IV. came to the throne, Careme was for a short time a member of the Regent’s household. He left Vienna to be present at the coronation, but arrived too late, and he does not scruple to say, very ungenerously, that the banquet was spoiled for want of his presence, nor to insinuate that the490 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY colleagues with whom he would have been associated were unworthy of such an association. After being ihe object of a species of semi-worship, and yielding to every new offer, yet affecting to despise them all, Careme ultimately joined the house- hold of Baron Rothschild, in Paris. George IV. is said to have tempted him by offering triple salaries; but all in vain, for London was too triste an abiding place for a man whose soul, out of kitchen hours, was given to study. And so Careme remained with his patron, “ until infirmity overtook his noble nature, and he retired to dictate his immortal words to his accomplished daughter.” Even in his retirement Careme was eagerly sought after, but he was deaf to the voice of the tempter. Money was no longer an object with him, for he was realising twenty thousand francs a year from the booksellers, besides the interest of the money he had saved. “ Think of it, shade of Milton (Milton used* to dictate to his daughter),” shrieks a. writer of recent years, “ eight hundred pounds sterling yearly for writing on kitchen- stuff 1 Who would compose epics after that 1 ” But Careme’s books are “ epics ” after their sort, and a fitting monument of a famous man, who had been “the imperial despot of European kitchens, had been ‘ be-ringed ’ by monarchs, and been smiled on by princesses; he had received lords in his kitchen, and had encountered ladies who gave him a great deal for a very little knowledge in return.” When we look back upon the past history of the kitchen, it seems rather more than a paradox why it should be that, although so many clever cooks have left t heir marks in literature, yet so little is known of their personal qualities, or history. Antonin Careme is the chef to whom the litle “Father of Modern Chefs ” was once most aptly applied ; but how many good chefs have existed since then, and fretted their hour upon the stage to pass into oblivion—a memorable instance of the ingratitude of mankind, and of epicures in particular, towards those who have served them well. One wrote immortal poetry and starved, the other made delicious pastry and rode in a chariot! We know how much Oliver received for his “ Vicar,” whilst Antonin Careme used to receive twice as much for merely writing out a recipe to make a pate. Nay, Careme’s unt ouched pat ties, when they left royal tables, were bought up at a large price; and a cold sugared entremet, at the making of which Careme had presided, was only obtainable by such as had plenty of money at their command.491 FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES LOUIS EUSTACHE UDE, Ude issued the tenth edition, “corrected and enlarged,” of his renowned “ French Cook, adapted to the use of English Families,” from Crockford’s Club House, St. James’s Street. He signs it thus: “By Louis Eustache Ude, ci-devant cook to Louis XVI. and the Earl of Sefton ; late Steward to the United Service Club, to his late Royal Highness the Duke of York ; and now Maitre d’Hotel at Crockford’s Club, St. James’s Street.” The book was sold everywhere by the elite among the booksellers, and Ude no doubt made a large ■ fortune over his publications, which still maintain a great reputation. Ude spoke out, but he spoke for himself, and his words were noble concerning the art of cookery, so far as he and a few others were concerned. Ude was a florid writer, but he made himself felt, and he has probably not been surpassed in self-confidence by any other writer in any other profession. He felt his importance, and acted upon it; but in the eyes of man}' he was “only a cook ” after all. Ode, however, maintained, and there is much reason in his argument, that to compose an oratorio or opera was an easier feat than to invent a new entree, and that a man of the requisite natural endowments could sooner qualify himself to compete with the Royal Academicians than with the chief operators in cookery. “ I shall,” he observes, “ demonstrate the difficulty of the art by some observations in other arts. Music, painting, and mechanics in general possess professors under twenty years of age, whereas in the first line of cooking pre- eminence never occurs under thirty. We see daily at the concerts and academies young men and women who display the greatest abilities, but in our line nothing but the most consum- mate experience can elevate a man to the rank of Chief Professor.” The precise age when Ude served his apprenticeship in cookery is difficult to state; but this is certain: he was not a youth when he definitively fixed upon the culinary art for his living. Again: “Prescriptions, we must admit, are dispensed by weight and measure; but dishes owe their virtue to sympathy, tact, nervous sensibility, and momentary inspirations.” “ The pharmacist,” he continues, with that bombast that rendered him comparatively uninfluential, “ is obliged to weigh every ingredient that he employs, as he dues not lihe to taste it; the cook, on the contrary, must taste often, as the reduction increases the flavour. It. would be blind work, indeed, without tasting ; the very best soups in which you have omitted to put salt are entirely without flavour; seasoning is in cookery whatPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 492 chords are in music; the best instruments in the hands of the best professors, without their being in tune, are intolerable.” Speaking of Gonthier d’Andernach, whom he designates “ the Father of Cookery in France,” and “ a star which shone in the Reformation,” Ude exclaims with emotion, “ What Bacon was to philosophy, Dante and Petrarch to poetry, Michael Angelo and Raphael to painting, Columbus and Gama to geography, Copernicus and Galileo to astronomy, Gonthier was in France to the art of cookery.” That was pretty good for praise; but he continued, “Gonthier appeared to raise the culinary edifice, as Descartes, a century after him, raised that of philosophy. Both introduced doubt—the one in the moral (or should it be ‘ social ’ ?) and the other in the political world.” Mr. Ude has managed to raise a little doubt in his own world, for there appears to have been no public record taken of his birth. All we can learn of his antecedents dates from his active life as a cook—he promised once, we are told, to write the memoirs of his life; but, alas ! poor Ude was no more immortal than the best of them. For upwards of twenty years Ude served Lord Sefton, and introduced the light sandwich ball supper so much in favour in 'present times. Ude was also once maitre d'hotel to H.R.H. the Duke of York, from whom, it is re- ported, “he contrived to elicit many a hearty laugh by his clever mimicry.” Under his auspices, also, “ the great play- house in St. James’s, Crockford's, was ushered into its de- structive career.” Another authority upon these matters, and who seems to know about as much of Ude’s career as anybody, tells us that “ Louis Eustache Ude was verily the Gil Bias of the kitchen. He had, in his latter days, a notion of writing his memoirs; and if they had not proved deeply interesting, those who knew him well can with truth assert that many would have relished the curious scandal and pleasant gossip with which his astonishing memory was so well stored. Ude’s mamma was an attractive and lively milliner, who married an underling in Louis XVI.’s kitchen,” hence he found a welcome there, and was duly christened after the king. Ude was intended to be brought up as a priest or to study medicine. “ The mother, however, thought Master Eustache too pretty a boy to be sacrificed to the priesthood. The consequence was that, after an attempt made by his sire to train him in his own glorious path, the youngster absconded, and apprenticed himself, first to a jeweller, then to an engraver, next to a printer, and lastly to a haberdasher I After which he became traveller for a mercantile house at Lyons. Something occurred to him at this point which occasioned him to change his vocation once more. He returned to Paris, and there tried his genius as an actor at a small theatre. He soon, however, discovered that his share of the world’s cake was not on that stage, and, byFAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 493 some means, he set up an office and a cabriolet, and forthwith started into life as an agent de change. This scheme did not last long; he got cleaned out on ’Change, and shortly after was installed as an inspector of gambling-houses. He soon tired of this appointment, and, on relinquishing it, determined to return to his original calling, and became once again a cook.” “After practising in the culinary profession some few years in the early dawn of the fortunes of the house of Bonaparte, Ude raised himself to the post of matire d'liotel to Madame Letitia Bonaparte. Here he remained for about two years, when, owing to some difference of opinion between Madame Letitia and himself in matters ‘ arithmetical,’ he somewhat suddenly left that lady’s service to honour England with his presence; and ever after, when fitting opportunity presented itself, he was wont to express his indignation against the nsurpateur and all his family. Good cooks were scarce in England in those days, and, shortly after his arrival, the late Earl of Sefton secured his sendees at a salary of 300 guineas per annum; and not only proved himself a liberal and kind- hearted patron during his lifetime, but, with that benevolence for which he was remarkable, handsomely provided for the old age of his favourite cook by leaving him £100 a year for life.” Ude was the first, it is said, to define clearly the distinction between entrees and entremets. It -was usual to use these terms very indifferently. Ude said that an entree was “any dish of meat, fowl, game, or fish, dressed and cooked for the second course,” and entremet applied to “all vegetable dishes, jellies, pastries, salads, prawns, lobsters, and in general to everything that appears in the second course—except the roast.”494 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ALEXIS SOYER, 1809-1858. In October, 1809, at Meaux-en-Brie, a small town in France noted for its cheese, called Frontage tie Brie, Alexis Soyer first saw the light, and was forthwith dedicated to the service of the church by his parents, who were small shopkeepers in that town. Alexis Soyer had two brothers, Philippe, apprenticed to the kitchen, and young Louis to cabinet-making; but at nine years of age our youthful he-o was sent to the cathedral church as chorister, to earn by his singing a free instruction for the priesthood. He is reputed to have possessed a good voice and an ear for music, which would have served him well in his devotional practices, but which he used in after life to amuse his social companions. Alexis urged his parents to alter his course, but without effect, so he thought it well to alter it for himself. The story is told that he consummated his desire to leave the church by tolling the big bell of the cathedral and giving an alarm of fire in the middle of the night, in consequence of which the inhabitants were scared out of their slumber and the garrison placed underarms. When the author of this escapade was found out, his dismissal from the choir of the cathedral followed as a matter of course, much to the distress of his parents, who little dreamed then of the fame that was in store for th'eir light-headed and light-hearted bantling. For some years his future was very undecided, and it was not until he was sixteen that he made any move at all towards selecting a career, and then his brother Philippe induced him to turn his attention to cooking, and accordingly he was apprenticed at Grignon in 182G. Having completed his appren- ticeship with more or less eclat, he was engaged by Douix, the well-known restaurateur in the Boulevard des Italiens, with whom he remained three years, taking the head of the kitchen when little more than seventeen. But .Soyer's culinary inclina- tions were not yet definitely fixed ; he was excessively fond of gaiety, therefore his next fancy was for the stage, to which he was possibly led by the applause of his friends and associates, who flattered his vanity whilst loudly eulogising his mad pranks, his mimicry and mischief. In 1830 he was appointed to serve in the Foreign Office as second cook, which he did for a few weeks only, when the revolution broke out and the kitchen was stormed, Soyer saving himself from rough treatment by singing the “Marseillaise" with all his might, beating time with a spoon, which led to his being carried off in triumph by the mob, whilst all his confreres were ill-used, and some were actually shot. It also led in the following year to his walking out of the country, scai-celv in triumph, to London, where he joined his brother in the serviceFAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 495 of the late Duke of Cambridge. Thence he found his way to the Duke of Sutherland’s kitchen, the Marquis of Waterford’s, and then to Mr. Lloyd’s, of Aston Hall, Oswestry. After spend- ing some four or five years in this latter engagement, he left it to'enter the establishment of the Marquis of Ailsa, at Isleworth, a gourmet of the very first water. But Soyer left there in 183G, having previously- contracted an acquaintance with a Miss Emma Jones, a clever pupil, and step-daughter of one M. Simonau, a Flemish artist in Fitzroy Square. The story goes that Soyer wanted a painting of himself to send to an old sweetheart in France, but possibly changed his mind about the destination of the portrait after making the friendship and awakening a reciprocal affection iu the heart of this amiable lady. In April, 1837, the marriage ceremony was solemnised, in the presence of Louis Eustache Ude and a select few friends, at St. George’s, Hanover Square, between Alexis Benoit Soyer and Elizabeth Emma Jones. Madame Soyer, nee Jones, deserves some special notice, for she was a very clever woman in many ways. Not only could she paint cleverly, but her skill as a musician, was considered of a very superior character, although it is a noteworthy fact that her pictures, which were her strongest point, were declined at the Royal Academy, in spite of Soyer's very enterprising letter to the president, requesting his particular consideration. Soyer was given to versify at times, and he made the president’s reply to him, and the hanging committee’s refusal of his wife’s painting, the subject of some bitter metrical lampoons. Madame Soyer’s end was of a very tragical character, and happened whilst her husband was on a trip to Brussels, in the suite of the Duke of Saxe Coburg. The first of Soyer’s literary efforts was entitled “ The Gastro- nomic Regenerator,” which had a splendid sale of over 2,000 copies in twelve months, at a guinea apiece. His next effort was as the writer of a ballet, “ La Fille de 1’0 rage.” M. Soyer could be as recherche in his imaginary as in his real dishes, and there was, probably, no compound with which he used to astonish and delight the palates of the members of the Reform Club more elaborately and artistically worked up than his “ Creme de la Grande Bretagne.” It was in 1837, just before his marriage, that Soyer accepted the post of head cook to the Reform Club, and, as his historians state, “ It was no joke for a young aspirant and a foreigner to face some fifteen hundred members of the aristocracy, whose refined appetites were on the qui vivo to taste, wilh severe criticism, the productions of the youthful artist. But Soyer was in no wise daunted by such an array, but undertook with a light heart to face their severely critical tastes in the preparation of a public breakfast, given by the members of the club to 2,000 guests. It was about this time—that is, justPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 49(5 previous to liis marriage—that he made friends with Louis Eustache Ude, of Crockford’s Club House, with whom he was afterwards, with his wife, on terms of friendly intimacy. Ude gave a dinner party on the occasion of his birthday, and to this M. and Madame Hover were duly invited. The scene is most amusingly described" by Hover, who made great fun out of the complications that were occasioned by M. and Madame Ude’s passion for dogs. From all accounts that can be gathered from those who knew him Alexis Soyer was a merry fellow, and as full of fun as could be—no man loved a practical joke more than he, and few were so smart at repartee. One day Lord Melbourne was inspecting his kitchen at the Reform Club, and laughingly observed to Soyer that his female assistants were remarkable for good looks. “ Ah ! my lord,” replied Soyer, with a knowing smile, “ we do not want plain cooks here.” With reference to Soyer’s work in' his profession, it has been stated by some that there was not so much art displayed as originality. This may be so ; but, in any case, whether deserving or not, Soyer was a thorough master of the art of making himself famous. His method was to make something, or some one else, famous first, and then to take his share as the promoter: for instance, every aristocrat in the country paid a visit to his “model” kitchen at the Reform Club, and these Soyer would conduct himself, with his red velvet cap set on one side of his head and spoon in hand, and, after extolling the glories of the place, he would shake up a pan and commence to prepare a dish, explaining the process as he went along, and then serve it to his guests, requesting the opinion of their palates. It might be mentioned that he always had a glass of good wine to set alongside, and proclaimed the dishes as being specially prepared for some grandee a degree or two at least above the status of his visitor. To her ladyship he would say, “ The Duke of has ordered this dish for to-night; let us taste it,” and the result was a certain appreciation. Amongst all this gastronomic splendour it is remarkable, though, that Soyer’s own tastes and habits were exceedingly simple. He tells us in one of his works, the “ Modern Housewife”: “When I first married our means were limited, and the following was our system of living , Roast beef, potatoes, greens, and Yorkshire pudding. Hashed beef and potatoes. Broiled beef and bones, vegetables, and spotted-dick puddiDg. Fish, if cheap, chops, and vegetables. Boiled pork, peas-pudding, and greens. Rea-soup, and remains of pork. Stewed steak, with suet dumpling.” Sunday Dinner Monday „ Tuesday ,, Wednesday „ Thursday „ Friday „ Saturday „497 FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES Many a time has he been known to dive into some back slum and purchase two-pennyworth of fried lish, devouring it with consummate relish, and preferring it to a vol-au-rent or ootelette of his own cooking. He was a professor of taste, but not a gourmet. The grand banquets undertaken and designed by Soycr were very numerous, the details of which are found in print in his books—his Diner Lucullvsien a la Santiago was, perhaps, the masterpiece of all, at least, he himself pronounced it to be so. The Bouquet de Gibier, or nosegay of game, which he presented to Louis Philippe, and for which he received such a memorable letter in return, was remarkable. It was about ten feet high and wide in proportion : “ The frame was richly covered with Christmas holly, laurel, mistletoe, and evergreen, with a great variety of winter flowers. There were twenty-two dozen head of game, consisting of larks, snipes, woodcocks, teal, French and English partridges, grouse, widgeons, wild ducks, blackcocks, pheasants, a leveret, a hare, and golden plovers. The interstices were lightly filled with wheat and oats, the whole ornamented with tri-coloured ribbon.” Most have heard of Soyer’s visit to Ireland in February of the year 1817, and of his praiseworthy efforts to relieve the starving peasantry; also of his model soup-kitchens, and of his relief of 1,147,278 persons, and the publication of his soup receipts, followed by “ The Poor Man’s Regenerator.” And then of his famous sauces and “ Relish,” and aerial dish at Slough; his philanthropic work in the East of London, and in the Crimea, where he so- ably assisted Miss Florence Nightingale in her efforts to feed the sick and wounded. And now we come to the last earthly scene, which occurred in his own house at St. John’s Wood, on the night of August 5, 1858. He was thus only forty- nine years of age when he died ; but he commenced life so early, and kept it up so intensely, that it ifray virtually be said he had lived as long again. It was he who described the difference between a gourmet and gourmand as being much the same as that between a gentleman and a common person.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 498 CHARLES E. FRANCATELLI, 1805-1876. Charles Elme Francatelli is a name familiar to all. He was born in London in 1805, and appears to have been at a very early date destined for the kitchen. His father was of rather more than Italian extraction, and christened him Charles Elme. At a suitable age the lad was sent to France for his education. Here he was fortunate enough to fall in with Careme, who was becoming a king in his profession. It may be said of Francatelli that he taught the Prince of Wales to eat macaroni, and Her Gracious Majesty the Queen to value the flavour of pistachio in sweets and confectionery. It was this culinary artist who first in this country advocated the diner a la Russe, of which he thus writes :— “Few there are who are not apt to look with a pleasurable anticipation on the culinary delicacies before them; but when appetite is appeased, to continue inhaling the now no longer agreeable fumes of hacked fragments of even the most perfect dishes is little calculated to promote enjoyment; whereas the absence from table of the more substantial fa,re is fully compen- sated by the refreshing elegance of an artistic display of orna- mental confectionery, gorgeous fruit, and lovely flowers, which form the chief elements of a fashionable dessert.” Of cooking itself he says: — “ Simplicity is as essential an element in cookery as it is in other arts. The author, therefore, particularly cautions the inex- perienced practitioner from attempting too much. Excess in the quantity and variety of spices and condiments—the bane of English cookery—is especially to be guarded against.” Whether he used “ spices and condiments ” at all times with the discretion he publicly advocates we are unable to state, but an old chef, who was personally acquainted with Francatelli in his kitchen at the St. James’s Hotel, tells us that, as the chef there, he was fond of highly flavouring his sauces. Francatelli did not profess, so he says, to cater for the satis- faction of coarse appetites, but rather to gratify refined tastes. And he alludes to “ Guides ” and “ Oracles,” with a decided hit at Dr. Kitchiner’s “ Cook’s Oracle,” in the following amusing words:— “ Such attempts, too frequently made by English writers on gastronomy, at once betray their origin. The greater part of these authorities are persons who, having neither studied the rudiments nor practised the art to any extent, take upon them- selves to instruct the public, not from the fulness of their know- ledge, but either as a pecuniary resource or to gratify an idle whim. Need it be wondered at, while we possess in England a greater abundance of all kinds of food, generally of far better quality than is to be found elsewhere, that our cookery in theory499 FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES and practice has become a by-word of ridicule, and that we should be compelled to have recourse to foreigners, ignorant for the most part of our tastes and habits, to prepare our feasts.” The following suggestions that he makes in one of his books are worthy of more than a passing comment:— “ The English custom of dividing a grand dinner into several courses is an error quite at variance with common sense and con- venience. Tt is a needless complication that necessarily leads to useless profusion, and much additional trouble. Our neighbours across the Channel allow of two courses only in the largest dinners. With them fish and hors d’ceuvres—such as patties, croquettes, &c.—form part of the first course, and not a distinct course, as they are considered east of Temple Bar. The French, too, regard the dessert as a mere delassement after dinner, in- tended rather to propitiate than to thwart digestion. “ I cannot refrain from alluding to an injudicious habit fre- quently adopted at English tables—that of introducing sweet champagne in the first course. This wine, from its sweetness, counteracts the flavour of savoury dishes. Madeira, sherry, and burgundy are better suited to the first course, their stimulating and generous qualities tending to assist digestion. “ The ordinary practice in London of serving turtle and veni- son indiscriminately, as mere accessories to recherche dinners, is, in my opinion, most injudicious. Turtle and venison being generally reckoned by us as the best of good cheer, it follows that, when they form part of a dinner, the removes and entrees are comparatively neglected. Very light entrees should always be served with these,” &c. The portrait of Francatelli is one which he himself considered exceedingly good. Amongst his appointments was that of chef de cuisine to the Earls of Chelmsford and Dudley, Lord Kinnaird, Sir W. Massey Stanley, and Mr. Rowland Errington of Melton Mowbray, which town is even now famous for pork-pies made from a recipe provided by him. He was for a time manager of Crockford’s Club, whence he removed to the Royal Household as inaitre d’hutel and chief cook in ordinary to Her Majesty. He next superintended the then flourishing Coventry House Club, and was for about seven years chef to the Reform Club. As manager of the celebrated Freemasons’ Tavern he did much to ensure the exceeding popularity of that house, which it has maintained to the present day. As an author on cookery he has had few equals. His first work, “ The Modern Cook,” appeared in 1845, and ran through twelve editions. In 18C1 he produced “The Cook’s Guide and Butler’s Assistant,” and shortly after a book on “ Cookery for the Working Classes.” Next appeared his “Royal English and Foreign Confectionery Book.” In 1875 he departed this life at the ripe age of seventy-one. 32PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 500 ALFRED SUZANNE. Alfred Suzanne was born in Normandy in the year 1829. His father and his grandfather before him were both notable chefs; but he was destined for another sphere of life, and entered upon his studies in Paris. Unforeseen circumstances, however, determined him to abandon his collegiate career at the age of eighteen, and embrace the calling of his parents; and nowhere have we a more striking exemplification of Darwin’s hereditary theorem than in the case of Suzanne, for, without even a know- ledge of the rudiments of cookery, he confesses that he resolutely embraced his father’s profession, and, student-like, laid the foundation of future success by a careful perusal of the works of the immortal Careme, Brillat-Savarin, and the leading authorities of the day upon culinary and gastronomic matters. With the theoretical information thus acquired, he com- menced his practical career as an apprentice in the kitchen of the Earl of Clarendon, then Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and, mirabile dictu! at the end of six short months found himself promoted to the honourable position of head pastrycook at Dublin Castle, a position which he held for a period of four years. From thence he passed into the service of the Earl of Wilton as chef de cuisine. The “ wicked Earl ”—to give him the name by which he was known among his familiars—was at that time at the zenith of his fame as a sportsman, musician, lady-killer, and leader of society. His epicurism was of the first water, and no man more assidu- ously studied his creature comforts. For the lengthened period of twenty-eight years M. Suzanne ministered to the delights of the table at his lordship’s generous board. On the death of Lord Wilton, in 1882, the Duke of Bedford secured M. Suzanne as controller of his kitchen, and this position he retained for five years, until indifferent health led him to seek permanent repose and the ntium cum dignitate to which good and even brilliant work had entitled him.\FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 501 In the charming Parisian suburb of Neuilly, M. Suzanne and his amiable wife are now domiciled, in circumstances which make life worth the living. He is, however, by no means idle, for he still contributes valuable advice and instruction to the English and French catering journals, so that his own countrymen, as well as those on this side of the “ silver streak,” are benefited by the useful information he is ever ready to give. He is acknowledged to be a great authority on culinary matters; and as the author of “Egg Cookery” he has proved to be one par excellence on the treatment of eggs, for he describes no fewer than two hundred ways of converting them into dainty and appetising dishes. All those who have come into contact with M. Suzanne are agreed that he is one of Nature’s gentlemen, retiring and modest, even to a fault; whilst amongst his confreres he is “ looked up to ” with admiration and respect on account of his geniality and undoubted abilities. In addition to this, his personal accomplishments are of no mean order. He excels as a musician and an artist, whilst his work as an amateur photo- grapher is worthy of the most unqualified praise. He has indeed gained something like notoriety in this department, having at different times photographed such leading sports- men as the Earl of Bradford, the ill-fated Marquis of Hastings, Baron Rothschild, Prince Edward of Saxe-Weimar, etc. It was Suzanne who took the portrait of Fred Archer in his hunting-dress, upon the occasion of the visit of the cele- brated jockey to Melton Mowbray, where the Wilton family have their seat. This portrait was quite the rage at the time, and attained a sale altogether unlooked for.502 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY EUGENE POUAED. Mr. Eugene Pouaed was born at Rugny, France, in May, 1841. His name is familiar to many - as a prominent member of the catering fraternity. He is, however, best known as the prime mover of the first cookery exhibition, held in London in 1885. At an early age Mr. Pouard was apprenticed to the catering business of Monsieur Sautereau, at Tonnerre, in France, where he “ served his time ” for three years. Having gained a good knowledge as cook and pastrycook during the time hp was apprenticed, he proceeded to the town of the“ grande scene ” for cookery, viz., Paris, where he worked in several noted places, and thus gained more knowledge in the art. During the years 1857 and 1858 he officiated in the kitchens of Baron Borell, at Issue, near Mantes. Anxious to gain still more experience, he resigned this position, and made for the great Metropolis, where he arrived in 1860. His first appointment was at the Guards’ mess, Curragh camp, Ireland, where he served as second cook, and later on as chef for nearly two years. He next proceeded to take up a more responsible engagement as chef to the Guards’ mess at AVindsor, where he remained till February 1868. He was next appointed messman to the Brigade of Guards at the Tower of London and Windsor. His success here marked him out for the responsible duties of a caterer, and he was consequently appointed contractor to the Queen’s guard, St. James’s Palace, London, in 1881, where he is still acting in that capacity. Besides his official duties, which he always fulfilled to the satisfaction of his superiors and to the credit of himself, Mr. Pouard at all times took a lively interest in anything concerning the promotion of the art of cookery, especially in the various exhibitions which were held in London, and he never missed an opportunity of making himself useful. He was president of the first cookery exhibition, which took place in 1885 ; and the great success which this first venture obtained was mainly due to the indefatigable manner in which he carried out his duties, which were rewarded by a splendid gold cup, accompanied with an illuminated diploma. He was again nominated as chairman for the Universal Cookery Exhibition held in London in 1888, on which occasion he introduced the now famous demonstrations, and lectured upon the delicate treatment of high-class entrees, &c., and showed the public how to prepare good things in the most practical way. His efforts in connection with this exhibi- tion, as well as with two more that followed, were duly appre- ciated, and in return for his honorary services he was presented with several illuminated addresses and medals; also with the grand decoration of the “ Cordon rouge,” which the Society of that title bestowed upon him.FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 503 ANTOINE A. PARMENTIER.* TnE birthplace of Antoine Augustin Parmentier is Mondidier in France, where he was born in 1737. France owes much to the exertions of Parmentier in introducing the potato as an article of diet—one of the most interesting chapters in the history of the human race. Parmentier not only introduced this edible root into his fatherland, but he also induced his countrymen to accept it as a food, and at the same time taught them more than twenty different ways of preparing it for the table. At first people believed all manner of evil things of the tuber. Some alleged that it contained poison, whilst others would have it that it produced skin-disease ; and the general verdict was that the plant was only fit for pigs’ food. The prejudice against it even became so strong that in some of the French provinces the cultivation of the potato was forbidden under the threat of heavy penalties. Parmentier, however, would not be dis- couraged by the opposition of his detractors; but, had it not been for his great and untiring energy and the protection of the king, his efforts to produce and popularise this edible root might probably have been in vain. The king, Louis XVI., who professed much esteem for the great philanthropist, had an interview with him. Parmentier lauded the virtues of the potato, explaining that it was a most nutritious food, and an excellent and economical substitute for bread. As it happened, this was the period of the great famine in France, and the king was so impressed and pleased by Par- men tier’s earnestness, that he there and then conferred upon him a title, the recipient appropriately choosing for his crest a potato flower. Furthermore, the royal order went forth that fifty acres of uncultivated land, called the Plaine cles Sablons, should be devoted to the cultivation of potatoes. It is on this land that the town of Neuilly now stands. Parmentier planted the field with potatoes, and when the tuber was ripe and fit for digging he had the place guarded by gendarmes, who ostensibly withdrew at dusk. As he anticipated, the field was plundered during the night by the people, tempted by the charm of forbidden fruit. The taste, thus acquired, spread with amazing rapidity amongst all classes. There was then a potato mania, and it is said that at a ball given at the palace of Versailles the queen and all the ladies were adorned with potato blossoms, whilst the king and all the gentlemen of the court wore the flower as “button-holes.” The scientific and medical notabilities of France were invited to a potato banquet, at which the favoured tuber was served cooked in thirty-three different ways. It is an amazing fact that France, the culinary nation par excellence, ignored the existence of the potato until the year 1787, whilst it was generally known and appreciated as an• PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 604 article of diet in England and in Spain long before Parmentier was born. Sir Walter Raleigh introduced it into Ireland from Virginia one hundred and fifty years before the tuber made its appearance in France. But it made slow progress as an edible, and was grown as a curiosity for some time before it attracted the attention of the English cultivator and consumer. Parmentier died in 1813 at the age of seventy-six, and was interred at Pere La Chaise Cemetery. Round the monument erected to his memory is formed a small garden, planted with the vegetable he loved and laboured for so much. Here is the receipt for Parmentier Potato Soup, or Pot aye Parmentier. Peel a dozen potatoes, slice and put them in cold water. Slice two onions, a head of celery, and the white part of two leeks. Put these ingredients in a stewpan with four ounces of butter, and add the potatoes. Fry the whole for ten minutes, and then moisten with two quarts of veal broth. Add three cloves, a little salt, a bunch of parsley, and let simmer until the vegetables are done ; then rub all through a fine sieve. Return the puree into a stewpan; set it on the fire to boil slowly; if the soup is found too thick, add a little broth. Let it simmer for twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it rises. When ready to serve, bind it with three yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream, and two ounces of butter divided into small pieces. Throw into the soup a little finely-chopped and blanched chervil, and serve with some small filed bread croutons. The Potato in Prance. The Paris correspondent of the Daily News wrote in February 1887 :—“ The potato is not in France that homely esculent that it is in the British Islands. There are as many ways of pre- paring it here as there were in Goldsmith’s time of cocking a nettle top. Potatoes are only admitted en robe cle chanibre—that is to -say, in their jackets—to the midday meal, and then on unceremonious occasions. They chiefly figure at dejeuners intimes, or dejeuners taken at restaurants, where the b if tech anx pommes and la cotelette a la puree de pomme de terre are in great favour. At popular banquets, where each one who sits down to table pays from four to six francs a head, the rosbif is sure to be a. la Parmentier. The centenary of the adoption of the potato as an article of food is to be celebrated next month at Mont- didier. There was a universal prejudice against it in this tolerant country until Parmentier, the gardener of Louis XVI., got that king to admit it to the royal table. As this happened in a year of famine, the potato soon after was universally adopted as an edible. MM. Erckmann-Chatrian, in one of their patriotic stories, describe the effect produced by iis advent in Lorraine. MM. De Lesseps, Pasteur, and Chevreul, the oldestmember of the Institute, have promised to attend the potato festival at Montdidier.”505 “ LE CORDON ROUGE.” This is the title of the grand decoration granted by a society of the same name, and is considered “ the highest gastronomic order in existence.” The badge of the order consists of a beautifully modelled white-heart cherry, suspended by a cherry- red ribbon. The society is ruled by the “ Supreme Don,” and is supported by twelve “ Senior Dons.” The scope and aims of the society are most praiseworthy. Its endeavour is to advance not only high-class cookery in all its branches, but also to instruct the poorer members of the community how they can utilise available food substances to the best advantage. They hope, in time to come, to form and establish an “ Academie de Cuisine ; ” another scheme of theirs is to carry out the erection of model kitchens for instruction in practical cookery. The decoration of the society is open to:— 1. Ladies who manage their own establishments and are celebrated for the excellence of their entertainments. 2. Cooks of both sexes. 3. Chemists. 4. Persons who have invented any valuable article of food or drink. 5. Persons who supply the same. 6. Proprietors and managers of hotels and other catering- establishments.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 506 “ LE CORDON BLEU.” Le Cordon bleu, or the blue ribbon, denotes a culinary badge of honour, known in France as the highest gastronomic order of merit. It consists of a rosette made of dark blue ribbon, and is only bestowed on female cooks who are celebrated for the excellence of their cooking. Culinary etymologists have not yet settled their dispute as to the precise derivation of the term “ Cordon bleu,” as it is applied to skilful women cooks. The history of its adoption is still a mystery. Some will have it that the eminently epicurean monarch Louis XV. was so delighted with the dish served up at one of his repasts, under the auspices of Madame Du Barry, that he proposed to decorate the cook who had prepared the enjoyable feast with the blue ribbon of the order of Saint Esprit; but it is to be feared that there is not any more authentic historical foundation for this statement than there is for the legend that Charles II. once knighted a joint of roast beef, which became then and thereafter ■“ Sir Loin.” Others maintain that in the middle of the eighteenth century, when restaurants first became popular in Paris, these places of entertainment were frequented by attrac- tive damsels in Alsatian or in Burgundian costume, who wore “ Cordons ” or scarves of different coloured ribbons. These fair Hebes sang songs, played on the flute, and sold fruit and cakes. One of the most popular of their number developed a genius for the culinary art, and descended to the kitchen to cultivate it. Her badge was a ribbon of dark blue tint, which circumstance caused her to be known as “ Cordon bleu.” Be it as it may, the controversialists on this knotty subject are agreed on the most essential point, viz., that the “ Cordon bleu ” is the culinary distinction bestowed on very skilful women cooks.PART VIII. CULINARY DICTIONARY EXPLANATION OF FRENCH AND ENGLISH W0RDS AND TERMS USED IN COOKERYPAET VIII. VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. A. Abkicot, /. Apricot, e. Abricote,/. Candied apricot, e. Agneau,/. Lamb, e. Agro-dolce Sauce. A sweet, sharp sauce, made with vinegar, sugar, pine kernels, almonds, chocolate, and small currants ; served hot. Aide de cuisine,/. Undercook, e. AIGREFIN,/. Small haddock. AIGRELE r, Aigre, Aigret. ' Sourish, somewhat sour, sharp, sour. Aiguillettes,/. Small strips of cooked meat. AIL (une gousse d’ail),/. Garlic ; a clove of garlic, e. Ailerons,/. Small wings of birds; fins of some fish. Some- times used for garnishing dishes, or served as ragout. Airelle rouge, /. Red bilberry; dark-red berries used for compote, jellies, and marmalade. A LA broche,/. Roasted in front of the fire. Albumine,/. Albumen (white of egg). Aliment,/. Food; nourishment; meat. Allemande, (a l’). German style. Allemande, /. A white reduced veloute sauce, made from veal stock, thickened with Hour, cream, yolk of egg, and seasoned with nutmeg and lemon juice. Alouette,/. Lark, e. Small singing bird. Aloyau,/. French word for sirloin of beef. Alsacienne, /. Alsacian style, e. Amalgamer, /. To mix several substances. Ambigu,/. A meal where the meat and sweets are served at the same time. Ameaux,/. A kind of pastry made of puff paste and eggs. A mourettes, Armourettes. Marrow cut in strips and crumbed. Ananas,/. Pineapple, e. ANCHOI8,/. Anchovy, e. AndouIllettes, /. Forcemeat balls, e. A kind of small sausages. Angelica is the name of a green fruit rind used in the kitchen, the tender tubular stems of which, after being preserved with sugar, are used for the purpose of decorating and flavour- ing sweet dishes.510 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Angklique,/. Angelica. Green fruit rind used for garnishing. Angelot. A small rich sort of cheese made in Germany. Anglaise, (a l’). English style. Anguille,/. Eel, e. A genus of soft-finned fishes. Animelles,/. Lamb’s fry. Aniser,/. To strew over with aniseed ; to mix with aniseed. Anisette,/. Aniseed cordial, e. Appareils,/. Culinary term for prepared mixtures; a formal preparation. Ariston (a Greek word). Breakfast bit; a kind of bread dipped in wine. Aromates, /. Vegetable herbs as used for flavouring, such as thyme, bay-leaves, tarragon, &c. Artichaut,/. Artichoke, e. Fouds d'— , artichoke bottoms. Asperges,/. Asparagus, e. Aspic,/. Savoury jelly, e. Assaisonne, /. Seasoned. Assiettes,/. dom. Small entrees, not containing more than a. plate will hold. Astrachan. A caviare called after this Russian town. Atelets,/. (also Hatelets). Small silver skewers. AttereAux,/. Small rounds of minced meat wrapped in pig’s caul and cooked on skewers. Aubergine. Egg plant; a kind of small sweets, &c.; vegetable marrow. Au bleu, /. A culinary term applied to fish boiled in water, and white wine, flavoured with herbs, &c. Au four, /. Baked in the oven. Au GRAS,/. A French term for meat dressed with rich gravy. Au gratin, /. A term applied to certain dishes prepared with sauce and bread crumbs, and baked in the oven. Au jus,/. Meat dished with natural juice or gravy. Au maigre, /. A French word used for dishes prepared without meat. Au naturel, /. Food cooked plainly and simply. Aurore,/. A culinary expression for dished up high. B. Baba (from the Polish word babl/a). A very light yeast cake. Bagration, /. A word used for high-class dishes (soups). Bagration was a Russian count, whose chief cook was the celebrated A. Careme. Baie de Ronce,/. Blackberry, c. The fruit of the bramble. Bain-Marie,/. The culinary water-bath. It is a large open vessel, half-filled with hot water, where sauces, &c., are kept so that they are nearly at the boiling-point without burning or reducing.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. 511 Ballotine, f. Small balls of meat or fowl. Ban axe,/. Banana, e. Fruit of the plantain tree. BarAQUILLE, /. A large pie made of rice, chicken and truffles. Bahde,/. (barded). To cover breasts of game or poultry with thin slices of bacon fat. Baron of Beef. A very large joint of the ancient kitchen. It consists of both sides of the back, or a double sirloin, and weighs from 40 to 100 lbs. It is always roasted, but is now rarely prepared, except at some festive occasions of the English court, or at some great public entertainment. It is generally accompanied by a boar’s head. Batons royaux, /. Small patties of minced chicken and game; the favourite dish of Charles XII. Batterie de cuisine,/. A complete set of cooking utensils and apparatus. BAYAROISE,/. A kind of cold custard pudding. Bayaroise a l’eau,/. Tea flavoured with syrup of capillaire and orange-flower water. Bearxaise,/. A word much used in cookery for a rich white herb sauce. Comes from the word Bearn, birthplace of King Henry II'., who was a great gourmand. Becasse, BeCASSINE,/. Snipe, e. Dolt; a small marsh bird. Bechamel,/. * A French white sauce. Beetroot, e. Betterave,/. Beignets,/. Fritters, e. Berlinois,/. A kind of light yeast cakes in the shape of balls. Bernard. Name of a famous chef de cuisine of the present time. Was chef for many years to the Emperor William I. Betterave, /. Beetroot, e. A saccharine root used, when boiled and pickled, for salads and garnish. Beurre noir (Au), /. Anything done in brown butter. Bifteic,/. The name given on the Continent to fillet steak or beefsteak. Bigarade,/. Bitter or sour orange. Bigarure,/. Is the name given to a rich stew made from pheasants, capons, &c. Bill of Fare, e. Menu,/. . Bind, e. To make a mixture and moisten it with egg, milk, or cream, so that it will hold together and not crumble. Bisque, /. Is the name given to certain soups usually made with shellfish. Blanc,/. A white broth or gravy. Blanchir,/. To blanch, c. To put anything on the lire in cold water until it boils; then it is strained and plunged into cold water. * The name is supposed to come from Bechameil, who was an excellent chef, and invented this white sauce whilst in service of King Louis XIY.512 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Blanquette,/. A stew, usually made of veal or fowl, with a white sauce thickened with yolk of egg. Bleak, e. Breme,/. A small species of river fish. Blonde de veau, /. A very rich veal broth used for flavouring and enriching white soups and sauces. Boar’s head, e. Hure de sanglier,/. Bceuf,/. Beef, e. Bombe,/. An ice filled with whipped sweet cream, shape of a bomb. Bon gout, /'. A much used expression for highly flavoured dishes and sauces. Bouchees,/. Small puff paste patties. Boudin,/. A kind of French sausage similar to black pudding. Bouillabaisse,/. Is a.kind of fish stew. A national French dish. Bouilli,/. Fresh beef boiled ; a national French dish. Bouillon,/. A plain, clear soup. Bouquet garni, /. A small bunch of savoury herbs, parsley, thyme and bay-leaves, onions and carrots. Bouquet of herbs. Green onions, parsley and thyme tied in a bunch. Bourguignote,/. A ragout of truffles. Bourguignotte (a la),/. Burgundy style, e. Bouride, /. A dish strongly flavoured with garlic. Bourrache, /. Borage, e. Aromatic kitchen herb; also called cucumber herb, because it has the peculiar flavour of cucumbers. Bkaisee, /. Braised, e. Meat cooked in the oven in a covered stewpan, with gravy, vegetables, and herbs put with it. Braisiere, /. A large stewpan with ledges to the lid, used for braising meats. Bread crumbs, e. Chapelure,/. Breakfast, e. Dejeuner,/. Break flour, e. To stir gradually into it a cold liquid until it becomes a smooth paste. Breme,/. Bleak, e. A small species of river fish. Bretonne, f. Brittany style, e. Brider, f. To truss poultry and game with a needle and thread. Brignolles,/. A species of dark-red cooking plums. Brioche,/. A light French yeast cake, similar to Bath buns. Brochet,/. Pike, e. A fish to be found in almost all waters; much liked on account of its delicate flavour. Brown meat, to, e. Is to place it in a frying-pan with a small quantity of fat, not turning it till brown. Browned butter, e. Beurre noir (an),/. Brunoise, /. Several soups are named i\ la Brunoise. Brunois is a county in France, Seine-et-Oise department, celebrated for the growth of fine spring vegetables.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. 513 BuiSSON, /. A cluster or a bush of shrimps, crayfish, or lobster. Also a method of twisting up pastry to a point. Burnt-sugar colouring, e. Caramel, /. Burst rice, e. Is to put it to boil in cold water; when boiling the grains of starch burst. C. Cabillaud,/. Codfish. Cafe vierge,/. An infusion of whole coffee-beans. Cajlle,/. Quail, e. A bird of the grouse kind. Callipash. A portion of glutinous meat to be found in the upper shell of the turtle. Callipee. The glutinous meat found in the under part of a turtle’s under shell. Camerain. Name of a rich soup invented by an actor of the eighteenth century of that name, the price of the soup being £6 The gastronomic work, “ Almanach des Gourmands,” by Grimod de la Regniere, was dedicated to Camerain. Canape. Much used for hors-d’oeuvres and savoury dishes. The word means sofa ; it consists as a rule of slices of bread cut into various sizes, used plain, or fried in oil or butter, or else grilled. Cannelons,/. Small rolls of pastry stuffed with minced meat. Capilotade,/. A culinary expression for a mixed hash. Caramel. Burnt sugar colouring. Cardamomes,/. Cardamoms, e. A spice used for flavouring meat and sweet dishes. Carde a la moelle, f. Pieces of marrow braised with bacon. Careme, A. The name of the celebrated chef, born in Paris in 1784, d. 1833; author of several culinary works, chef to the Prince Regent, George IV. of England, and the Emperor Alexander I. of Russia. Carottes,/. Carrots, e. Carre,/. Neck, e. The rib part of veal, mutton, lamb or pork.- Carrots were first introduced into England by Flemish gardeners in the time of Elizabeth, and in the reign of James I. they were still so uncommon that ladies wore bunches of them on their hats and on their sleeves, instead of feathers. Casha. An Indian dish, made with maize and cream. Casserole,/. A copper stewpan. When used in menus, it indi- cates the form of rice, or macaroni, filled with minced meat, game purge, &c. Cassis,/ The part which is attached to the tail end of a loin of veal; also, black currant syrup or liqueur. Caviar,/. Caviare, c. The salted roe of sturgeon (fish eggs). Cerf,/. Deer, stag, hart. Quadruped kept for venison.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 514 Cervelle, /. Brain, c. A substance within the skull of an animal. Veal, lamb, pork, and beef brains are used in cookery. Champignons, /. Mushrooms, e. Chapelure,/. Dried bread crumbs passed through a sieve. Chapon, /. Capon; also a piece of bread boiled in soups; a crust of bread rubbed with garlic. Charcuterie,/. The word means roughly slashed; but in a culinary sense it denotes “ pretty tiny kickshaws ” of pork, which are prepared in many different fashions. Black pudding, pig’s feet truffled, smoked pig’s ear with truffles, Nancy chitterlings, saveloy, pig’s liver—are all items of charcuterie. Charlotte, /. Consists usually of thin slices of bread or biscuits, steeped in clarified butter and sugar, and laid out in plain moulds in a symmetrical order, after which they are garnished with cream, fruit or preserve. Christian name of the queen of “ Farmer George.” Chartreuse. Various kinds of vegetables or fruit, dished up in the shape of goblets. Chataigne,/. Chestnut, e. Used for stuffing and sweet dishes. Chateaubriand. Name of Viscount Framjois Auguste, a great French gourmand, born in 1769, d. 1848. A favourite dish of fillet steak is called after him. Chaudeau,/. A sweet sauce served with puddings, &c. Chaudproid, /. A name for dishes which are prepared hot and eaten when cold, usually garnished with savoury jelly and truffles. Chaussons, /. A kind of French round flat pies tilled with jam. Chef de cuisine,/. Chief of the kitchen ; head cook. Chevreuil, /. Roebuck, roe-deer, e. Chevreuse,/ Small goose liver tartlets. Chicoree,/. Succory, endive e. Used for salads, and as a vegetable. Chiffonnade, f. Soup herb leaves. ■Chinois, /. A strainer with very fine holes, used for straining clear soups and gravies. A Chinese fruit. Chipolata. Small Italian sausages. Choux-fleuR,/. Cauliflower, e. A delicate species of cabbage. Citron, /. Lemon, e. Citronate ; candied lemon peel. Citronne, /. Anything which has the taste or flavour of lemon. Civet. A brown stew of hare, venison, or other game. Civettes,/. Chives, e. Flavouring herb for soups and salads. Clarification,/. An operation which is so termed when any liquid is clarified. For the clarification of consommSs and savoury jellies, finely minced raw meat and eggs and water are used; whilst for sweet jellies, whites of egg and lemon juice are used for that purpose.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. 515 Clarifier. To clarify. Clear soup, e. Consomme,/. Cochon DE LA IT,/. Sucking pig, c. Cock's Combs, e. Cretes cle coq,/. Used for garnishing rich ragouts. Cock-a-leekie, e. A soup made of leeks and fowls. Codfish, e. Cabillaud,/. A sea fish. Coffee, e. Caf6,/. Going,/. Quince, e. A fruit used for compote and marmalade. Colbert, /. A French clear soup, named after John Baptiste Colbert, a clever statesmen under the reign of Louis XIY. of France, 1610—1683. Compiegxe, /. A light yeast cake with crystallised fruit. Also name of the French castle built by Louis XIY. of France. Compote, /. Stew of small birds ; fruits stewed in syrup. Concasser,/ Coarsely pounded. Coxcombre,/ Cucumber, e. Conde. Xame of an old French family. Prince Louis de Conde, 1621-1686, was a famous field-marshal. Several soups and entrees are styled “ it la Conde.” Condiments. Highly flavoured seasoning, spices, Ac. Confit, /. Preserved in sugar. Confiture, /. Fruit jams. Also sweetmeats of sugar and fruits. Consomme, /. Clear gravy soap. Coq de bruyere,/. Woodcock. A bird allied to the snipe. Coqgilles, /. Light fish or meat entrees, served in shells. Cordon bleu. Is a high distinction applied to very skilful female cooks in France. See page 506. Cordon rouge. Is a high distinction, granted by an English society of the same title to skilful cooks of both sexes, and to others who are celebrated for the invention of valuable articles of food or drink. The badge of the order consists of a modelled white-heart cherry, suspended by a cherry-red ribbon. See page 505. Core, e. To core an apple or pear is to remove the heart, which can be done when whole with a corer, and when in quarters with a knife. Cotelettes,/. Cutlets. Small slices of meat cut from the neck of veal, mutton, lamb, or pork. Also thin slices of meat from other parts. Coulis, /. A smooth sauce, highly but delicately flavoured, used for soups and entrees. Couronne, /. Crown, e. En nourunne, to dish up any prepared articles in the form of a crown. Court-bouillon, /. Name given to a broth in which fish has been boiled ; a highly-seasoned fish stock. 33516 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Coutise, /. When small scallops of truffles, smoked tongue, ham, Ac., are inlaid as garnish or ornament, by incision, in fillets of any kind, they are said to be covtiscs. Craquelins, /. Cracknels, e. A kind of milk biscuits. Crepes,/. French pancakes, e. Cretes de coq,/. Cock's combs, e. Used for garnishing rich ragouts. CREVETTE,/. Prawn; shrimp, e. Croissant, /. Half-moon-shaped fancy bread. CroqijANTES,/. A transparent mixture of various kinds of fruit and boiled sugar. Croque-en-bouche,/. Is the name given to large set pieces for suppers or dinners, such as nougat, iced cakes, fruits, which are covered with boiled sugar so as to give them a brilliant appearance. The real meaning of the word is "‘crackle in the mouth.” Croquettes, /. Savoury mince of fowl, meat or fish, prepared with sauce, shaped to fancy; generally egged, crumbed and fried crisp. Croustades, /. Shapes of bread fried, or baked paste crusts, used for serving game, minces, or meats upon. Croutons, /. Thin slices of bread cut into shapes and fried, used for garnishing dishes. Cru, -e, /. Raw, e. Cuilleres de cuisine, /. Are wooden spoons. The use of wooden spoons is strongly recommended instead of metal spoons, especially for stirring sauces. The latter often contain certain acids which produce a black colour. Cuisson, /. A method of boiling meat. It is finished off by cooking in its own juice whilst in an oven. Culinaire, /. This is applied to anything in connection with the kitchen, or the art of cooking. A good cook is called “ un artiste culinaire.’ Curry, from the Hindoo word Mura (palatable, eatable). Kari,/. An Indian condiment,; a stew of meat, fish or fowl; a sharp spiced sauce. D. Dariole, /. A kind of small entree pittas, composed of a com- pound of forcemeat or mince, baked or steamed in small moulds. Certain small tarts are also so called. The name usually applies to the shape of the moulds. Darne,/. The middle cut of large fish, salmon or cod. D’Artois,/. A kind of French pastry (puff paste and jam). Daube,/. Meats or poultry stewed.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USER IN COOKERY 517 Daubiere,/. An oval-shaped stewpan. De briber, /. To remove the strings or skewers from a piece of meat or bird. Decanter, /. To decant; to pour a liquor which has a sedi- ment gently into another receptacle. Deer, e. Cerf,/. Degraisser, /. To take off the grease from soups, etc. Dejeuner,/. Breakfast. Dejeuner a la fourchette,/. A meat breakfast or luncheon. Demi-deuil (en),/. - A culinary expression. When white meats, such as veal, sweetbreads, or fowl, are larded with truffles, they are called “ en demi-deuil.” The meaning is “ half- mourning.” Demi DOFF,/. Name of a Russian nobleman. Several dishes are introduced by this name. Demi-glace,/. Name of a brown sauce ; also of a cream ice much served in Paris. Des, /. Discs, e. Desosser, f. To bone ; to remove the bones from meat, poultry, or game. Dessecher, /. To stir a puree, pulp, or paste with a wooden spoon whilst it is on the fire, until it becomes loosened from the pan. Desserte. The remains of a meal. Devilled, e. A la diable,/. Diable,/. Stands for “ devil.” Is applied to dishes with sharp and hot seasoning. Dill, e. A hardy biennial plant, possessing powerful flavouring properties ; used in salads and soups. Dinde, dindon,/. Turkey, e. Dormant, or Surtout de table,/. Decorative objects which are left on the table to the end of a meal. Dorure (Dorer), f. Yolks of egg beaten, used for brushing . over pastry, etc. Doucette,/. Name given to corn salad. Dubois. Name of a clever chef de cuisine of the present time, Urbain Dubois, author of “ La Cuisine Classique,” etc.; late chef to the German Emperor William I. Dumas. Name of a famous French author, editor of the “ Dictionnaire de Cuisine.” Alexandre Dumas, b. 1803, d. Eau de fleur d’oranger,/. Orange-flower essence. Ebarber,/. To remeve the exterior parts of a piece of meat or fish. Ebullition, /. A liquid which is on the boiling point. Chauffer fi Vebullition means heated until boiling.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 518 Echalote, f. Shallot, e. Is a kind of mild onion used for seasoning soups and made dishes ; also for flavouring sauces and salads. Echauder,/. To steep in boiling water. This is often done with fowls or game, as it will facilitate the removing of the feathers or hair. Eclair, /. A French pastry filled with cream. Ecossaise (a l’),/• Scotch style. Eel, e. Anguille. /. Egg, e. CEuf, /. Egg-nogg, e. An American drink. Eicnecic kataie, t. A Turkish meal porridge. Elmassia, t. A Turkish dish, made from calves’ feet. Emince,/. Sliced or shred. Emonder,/. When almonds are steeped in boiling water in order to peel them, the French say “ on les emonde.” Entrecote, /. French name for a steak cut from the middle part of the rib of beef. Entree, f. A course of dishes, or corner dish for the first course. Entremets,/. Dainty dishes of vegetables or sweets served as second courses. Enveloppe,/. Enclosed, enveloped. Epice,/. Spice, e. Epicure, /. One addicted to the luxury of eating and drinking. Epigrammes, /. Verbally, a short pointed poem. Used as a culinary term for small fillets of poultry and game and lamb, prepared as entrees. Epinard,/. Spinach, e. Escalope,/. Thin, round steaks of veal called “ collops.” Escargot,/. Edible vineyard snail. Escarole, /. Name given to broad-leaved endive. Espagnole, /. A rich brown sauce, the foundation of nearly all brown sauces. Estouffade,/. (or Etuvee). Expression for a way of cooking meats slowly in a covered stewpan. Estourgeon, /. Sturgeon, e. A very large fish, usually salted and smoked. Estragon, /. Tarragon (flavouring herb). Etouffe,/. (Stoved). Stewed in the oven. Exprimer,/. To squeeze the juice out of fruit. F. Fagot. A small bunch of parsley and savoury herbs. Faisan,/. Pheasant, e. Fanchonnettes/. Small custard tartlets. Farce,/. Forcemeat or stuffing.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 519 Faubonnk,/. A vegetable puree soup, seasoned with savoury herbs. Faux (false;. Used in “ potage it la fausse tortue” (mock-turtle soup). Fecule,/. A fine flour used for binding soups and sauces. Fermiere (a la),/. Farmhouse style. Feuillage,/. Leaves, e. Feuilletaue,/. Puff paste. Fidelini, it. A kind of Straight vermicelli paste. Fieldfare. Grive. Thrush. Figue,/. Fig. Used fresh for compotes, and dried as dessert or in puddings. Filet, /. Fillet, e. The centre part of a loin of beef, mutton, veal, pork, and game. Also boned breasts of poultry, birds, and the boned sides of fish are called fillets. Financiers,/. Name of a very rich ragout used in entrees. Flamande (a la),/. Flemish style. Flamber, /. To singe poultry or game. Flan,/. A French custard tart. Flancs. Name of side dishes at large dinners. Fleurons,/. Little sippets of puff paste used for garnishing. Flounder,/. Carrelet, e. A small flat sea fish. Foie de veau,/. Calf’s liver. Foie gras. Fat goose liver. Fond,/. Strong gravy; meat stock; bottom, as in “fond d’artichaut.” Fondant,/. Melting, e. Fondue,/. A preparation of melted cheese. Fouettee,/. Whipped with the whisk. Fourre,/. Coated with sugar, cream, &c. Fraises,/. Strawberries, c. Framboises,/. Raspberries, e. FBANpAiSE (a la),/. French style. Francatelli. Name of an eminent chef, 1805—1876, author of the “Cook’s Guide,” and the “Modern Cook,” pupil of A. Careme, chef at the Reform Club and to Queen Victoria. Frapper, f. Iced (used when cooling champagne). French beans e. Haricots verts,/. Friand,/. An epicure, a dainty person. Friandines,/. Small round patties containing mince. Fricandeau,/. Roast fillet of veal, larded. This dish is sup- posed to have been invented by Jean de Careme, who was the direct ancestor of the famous Careme. He was cook to Pope Leo X. This pontiff possessed magnificent tastes: he fostered the genius of Raphael the painter, and encouraged also the genius which could discover a fricandeau. FRICANDELLES,/. Small thin braised steaks of veal or game. Fricassee,/. Fricasseed, r,. A white stew of chicken or veal. Frit, f. Fried in butter or dripping.520 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY FniTTATA. An Italian dish; a kind of rolled pancake crumbed and fried in fat. Fritter, e. Beignets,/. Anything- dipped in batter, crumbed or egged, and fried. Friture,/. The frying substance in which fish, fritters, &c. are fried. Fromage glace,/. A dish of ice-cream in a cheese-like shape. Frumenty. Once a Lord’s Mayor’s dish, and a staple food of our robust ancestors; it is wheat or barley boiled. Eaten with honey, sugar, milk, or treacle. Fumet,/. The flavour or essence of game. Furcifer is the name under which the fork was introduced into England at the beginning of the seventeenth century. Tom Coryat first brought table-forks to England. G. Galantine,/. A dish of white meat rolled, served cold. Garbure,/. A kind of broth made with bread and vegetables. Gasterea. Goddess of Gastronomy. Gastronome. A caterer; hotel or restaurant keeper. Gateau, /. A round flat cake. Gaufre, /. A light biscuit; wafer. Gelee,/. Jelly, e, Inspissated juice of fruit or meat. Gelinotte,/. Hazel-hen; heath-cock. Genevoise (a la). Geneva style. Genoise,/. Genoese style. Also the name of a kind of sponge cake ; a brown fish sauce. German style, e. A l’Allemande, /'. Gigot a sept heures, or Gigot a la cuillere, is a leg of mutton which has been cooked for seven hours, when it may be carved with a spoon. Gingerbread, or Pain d’epice, has been in use ever since the fourteenth century. It was then made and sold only in Paris, according to Monteil, “ Histoire des Frangais.” Gingerbread was introduced into England by the court of Henry IY. Gitana (a la). Gipsy fashion. Glace,/. Frozen, iced. Glace,/. Ice. Glace de sucre (Glace royale). Icing sugar; very tine dust sugar. Glaze, e. Glace de viande,/. Stock or gravy reduced to the thickness of jelly; used for glazing meats, See., to improve their appearance. Well-made glaze adheres firmly to the meat. Also used for strengthening soups and sauces. Gnocchi. A light savoury dough, boiled, and served with grated Parmesan cheese (Italian dish). Godiveaux/. Rich veal forcemeat. Goose, e. Oie,/. Goose liver = foie gras ; foie d’oie,/.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 5*21 Goulash. A Hungarian dish. Finely-sliced beel or veal stew, highly seasoned. Gourmand,/. An epicure; a ravenous eater; a glutton. Gourmet,/. A judge of good living; one who values and enjoys good eating; a connoisseur in wine. Gbamolata. ' A kind of half-frozen lemon water-ice served in glasses. Gras (au),/. This signities that the article specified is dressed with rich meat gravy. Gratin,/. See Au gratin. Gratiner,/. To brown the top of a dish. Grenadins,/. Small slices of veal or game larded. Grimod de la Regniere. Name of a celebrated culinary author and an able chef, editor, in 1803, of the journal called “ Almanach des Gourmands.” Griotte,/ A dark-red cherry, called Armenian cherry, suit- able for compote and jam. Grive,/. Fieldfare ; thrush, e. Groseilles,/. Gooseberries or currants, v. Gruau,/. Gruel; oatmeal; water-gruel. Guisado. A Spanish dish, prepared with meat stewed and potatoes. H. Hache, f. Minced meat, finely sliced meat. Haddock, e. Aigrefin,/. Haggis. A kind of liver sausage (Scotch dish). Halaszle. A Hungarian fish stew. Ham. Jarnbon,/. Ha REN G,/ Herring, e. A small sea fish. Haricot, /. Bean; also applied to a thick meat stew, so called from the French word for beans, from which the dish was originally made. Haricots panaches,/. French beans or string beans mixed with flageolets (green kidney beans). Hatelet,/. A small silver skewer garnished with cut roots, truffles, mushrooms, aspic, cock’s combs, &c., used for orna- menting fish and remove dishes. Hodge-podge (Hochepot). A meat ragout with chestnuts; a Scotch meat stew. Hollandaise,/. Dutch style; also name of a white fish sauce. Hominy, e. A farinaceous food prepared from maize. Hors-d’ceuvres, f. Small side dishes, served cold, generally before the soup, in order to create appetite. They consist of anchovies, caviare, sardines, and other dainty relishes. Horseradish. Raifort,/. A species of scurvy-root of peculiarly hot flavour. Huitre,/. Oyster, e. A bivalvnlar testaceous shell-fish.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 522 IIure,/. Boar or pig’s head; also head and shoulders of some large fish. Huee dk sanglier,/. Wild boar’s head. I. Indienne (a l’). Indian style. Irish stew. A stew of mutton, potatoes, and onions; national dish of Ireland. Isinglass ine. An economical substitute for gelatine. Italienne (a L’.) Italian style. J. Jam bon, /. Ham, e. The thigh of a hog salted and smoked. Jambonneau,/. A very small ham. Jardiniere, f. A mixture of spring vegetables ; vegetables stewed down in their own sauce. Jean de Careme (John of Lent). A famous cook under Pope Leo X., who received the nickname “ John of Lent,” in consequence of a celebrated soupe rnaigre wdiich he used to prepare for his master the Pope. He is supposed to be the direct ancestor of the celebrated Antoine Careme. Jellies, e. Gelees,/. Inspissated juice of fruits or meats. Jernik-kalwasi. A Russian dish, consisting of semolina, milk, and honey. JOLERIE,/. A small sweet-water fish similar to perch. JUGGED, e. Civet de ...,/. Stewed. Julienne. Name of a vegetable clear soup, first made in 1785 by a cook named Jean Julien; vegetable roots finely shred. Jus,/. Juice ; broth ; gravy. K. Kabob. An Indian dish of stewed meat curried. Kaimaic. A Russian sweet, similar to cream custard. IvARl. The translation in French or German of the English word “ curry.” Kedgeree. An Indian dish of fish and rice curried. Kettle of fish. Is a sort of fish stew well known in Scotland: locally known as “ fish, and sauce.” It is generally made from haddocks. Klosse. German dish, composed of small light balls boiled in water, milk, or gravy They are made of bread, potatoes, rice, and eggs, and.are varied with meat, fish, or liver. Knol Kohl or Kohl-Rabi. Is a turnip-shaped vegetable, which is cooked without being pared; but before going to table the outside must be carefully removed. They are generally served with butter or a white sauce. Konomoe. Name of a Japanese vegetable. KROMESicis. Rolls of minced chicken and ham crumbed and fried. KUUPXTC ic. A Russian soup.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 523 L. Lait,/. Milk, e. Ail lait, prepared with milk, or in milk. Lamb, e. Agnean,/. Lamb’s fey, e. Animelles,/. LANd o’ CAKES. A name sometimes given to Scotland, because oatmeal cakes are a common national dish, particularly among the poorer classes. LanGOUSTE,/. Very large lobster; sea crayfish (spring lobster). Lapereau, f. Young rabbit. Lapin,/, Rabbit. A small, long-eared quadruped. Lakdon, /. A piece of fat bacon used for larding. Lark. Alouette,/. Lasanges,/. Lasagna, it. Strips of paste made of eggs and flour, and boiled. Leek. Poireau,/. Is said to be a native of Switzerland. The leek was, and still is, the favourite ingredient in the “cock-a- leekie,” of which King James I. was so fond, that he retained his preference for it notwithstanding all the dainties of French cookery. Legume, /. Vegetable. Levraut,/. Leveret. A young hare. Leyure,/. Yeast. A preparation which ferments dough. Liaison, The mixture of yolk of eggs, cream, etc., used for thickening or binding white soups and sauces. Lit,/. Thin slices of meat spread in layers. Livournaise (a la). Leghorn style. Lobster. Homard; langouste,/. Lucullus. Name of the famous Roman epicure and field- marshal, Lucius Licinius Lucullus, 114—57 B.C. Luting. A paste used for fastening lids on pie dishes in which game is preserved. Lyonnaise (a la),/. Lyons style. M. Macaroni. This is a peculiar paste, prepared from flour and manufactured into t ubes. It is an Italian invention. Macedoine, /. A mixture of various kinds of vegetables or fruits, cut in even-shaped discs. Madelaines,/. Little cakes baked in special tartlet moulds. Maigre (au), /. A dish .without meat. Applied to Lenten dishes. Maintenon. Name of the Marchioness Franpoise d’Aubigne ; born 1635, died 1719 ; a great patroness of cooks, and admirer of fine cooking. Several dishes are called “ it la Maintenon.” The dish “ C&telettes de veau ft la Maintenon ” is said to have been invented by this lady, who was Louis XIV’s favourite, and did all in her power to tempt the failing appetite of the king when ho was advanced in age.524 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Maxtre d’hotel (a la),/. Hotel steward’s fashion. Maquereau. Mackerel. A spotted fish. Maraschino, e. Marasquin, f. A delicately flavoured white liqueur, used for flavouring jellies -and ices. Marcassin, /. Grice, a. Young wild boar, generally cooked whole. Marengo. An Italian village, which gives its name to the dish “ Poulet saute a la Marengo.” Marie Louise. Second wife of Napoleon I., born 1791, died 1847. The lady was a great gourmand of her time. Marigold. A flavouring herb, also known as Pot Marigold. It is a native of Spain, and was introduced into England in 1573. Marinade, /. The brine in which fish or meat is sauced or pickled. Marjolain,/. Marjoram, c. An excellent kitchen herb of strong flavour, used fresh or dried for game seasoning; also for flavouring sauces, forcemeat, etc. Marquer, f. To prepare, and arrange in a stewpan, a piece of meat ready for cooking. Marzipan. Delicate German dessert dainties made from al- mond paste. Mask. 'To cover any kind of cooked meat with thick rich gravy or savoury jelly. Masquer, /. To sauce a dish which is ready for serving ; also, to mask the inside of a mould with savoury jelly or chaudfroid sauce when required for cold entrees. Massepain, /. A French dessert pastry. Matelote, /. A marine dish; a rich fish stew with wine and herb flavouring. Mayonnaise, /. A kind of salad of fish or poultry, with a thick cold sauce made of yolks of eggs, oil, and vinegar ; a salad sauce. Mazagran. A French term for a glass of black coffee, sugar, and water. Mazarines. Turbans,/. Forcemeat ornaments of fish, poultry, or game. Menu, f. The bill of fare. A list of the dishes which are to be served at a meal. Menus were first used in 1541. Menus droits. Pig’s ears served up as an entree. Meringue, /. Light pastry, made of white of eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice. Mr:Rlan, f. Whiting. A delicate fish allied to the cod. Mets, /. The meal, or dish : “Mets de farine,” “ entremets de douceur,” “ de legumes,” etc. Mignonette pepper. Coarsely ground white peppercorns. Mijoter, /. To cook slowly ; to simmer gently over a small fire. Milk. Du lait,/.VOCABULARY OF/TERMS USED IN COOKERY 525 MillecantONS, /. Name of a small fish of the whitebait kind, found in the lake of Geneva; cooked in the same manner as whitebait; in season in July and August. Mint julep. Name of an American drink. Mirabelles, /'. A kind of small yellow plums, very sweet and juicy, used for compotes, fresh or dried. Mirepoix, /. The foundation preparation of vegetables, herbs, and lard, for brown soups and sauces ; also for braised meats, etc. Miroton, /. Thin slices of meat, the size of a five-shilling piece, braised, stewed, and dished up in a circular form. Mitonner, f. To steep and allow to boil during a certain time. Mouiller, /. To add broth, water, or any other suitable juice, during the cooking of meats. Mousse, /. A light ice cream. Mouton,/. Mutton, e. Mulligatawny. An Indian curry soup ; a paste made of curry. Mure, f. Mulberry, e. Black and white fruit of a delicate flavour, used for making jellies, syrups, and vinegar. Myrtille./. Bilberry. A fruit used for compotes, syrups, and sweet sauces. . N. Napolitaine (a LA),/. Naples style. Nappeb,/. To cover a dish with a layer of thick sauce, jelly, or jam. Naturel, f. Plain, simple. Navarin,/. A stew of mutton or lamb. Navet, /. Turnip, e. A bulbous root used for soups, as a • vegetable, and for flavouring. Neck, e. Carre,/. The rib part of veal, mutton, lamb, or pork. Nefles,/. Medlars, e. Small, pear-shaped, delicately flavoured fruit. Neige, /. White of eggs beaten to snow or a froth. Nivernaise (a la), /. Nivernese style. Noisette, /. Hazel nut; fruit of the hazel. Noix DE Muscat, /. Nutmeg, e. The fruit of the nutmeg tree ; an aromatic spice. Noix de VEAU, /. Cushion of veal (knuckle of veal). Noques,/. Small dumplings made from flour, milk, or cream, boiled in soup or salt water, and served as garnish. Nokmande (A. la). Normandy style. Nougat, /. Almond rock candy. Nouilles. Nudels, /. Small thin strips of paste made of eggs and flour. Noyau, f. The stone of a fruit; a liqueur flavoured with kernels. Nutmeg, e. Noix de Muscat,/. An aromatic fruit.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 526 O. 05 up, f. Egg, e. Oie, /. Goose, e. Oignon, /. Onion, e. Olive, f. Olive, e. Fruit of the oil-tree, used as hors-d’oeuvres, and as garnish for sauces, stews, salads, etc. Omble. Name of an excellent sweetwater fish, from the lake of Geneva, weighing up to 15 lbs. apiece; in season during the months of January and February. Ombre chevalier, /. Grayling, e. A sweetwater fish, similar to the trout. Omelette, f Omelet, c. A pancake or fritter of eggs, etc. Oriental salt. A pleasant and agreeable condiment, made from the fresh red chilli; it has the same properties as Cayenne pepper without its pungency, and forms a pleasant variety with the ordinary white salt on the dinner table. Ortolan, /. Ortolan, e. A bird of the size of a lark. Oseille, f. Sorrel, e. A sour plant of green colour, used for soups or as a vegetable. Ox-tail soup is said to have been discovered as follows:— During the Reign of Terror in Parris, in 1793, many of the nobility were reduced to starvation and beggary. The abattoirs sent their hides fresh to the tanneries without removing the tails, and in cleaning them the tails were thrown away. One of these noble beggars asked for a tail, which was willingly given him; he took it to his lodgings and made—what is now famous—the first dish of ox-tail soup. He told others of his good luck, and they annoyed the tanners so much, that a price was put on ox-tails. P. Paillasse, /. A grill over hot cinders. Pain, /. Bread ; force-meat; fruit puree, &c. Pain d’epice, /. A kind of gingerbread. Palais de bceue, f. Ox-palate, e. Panache, /. Mixed with two or more kinds of vegetables, fruits, &c.; also creams. Panada. A paste of flour and water or soaked bread, used in the preparation of forcemeat and stuffing. Paner, /. To egg and breadcrumb. Pannequets or Crepes,/. Pancakes. Papillotes (en), f. Paper capsules, greased, and fastened round cutlets, See. Buttered paper answers the same purpose when twisted along the edges. Paprika. Hungarian red pepper. Parboil. To half-cook in boiling water. Parisienne (a la), f. Parisian style.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 527 Parmextier (Antoine Augustin). Born 1787, died 1813; intro- ducer of the potato into France, in 1786, during the reign of Louis XVI. He also invented twenty different ways of cooking potatoes. Parsley. Persil,/. Is a native plant of Sardinia, and was first introduced into England in 1548. Parsley is used for sauces, salads, and as a pot-herb, and makes the prettiest garnish for dishes. Passer, /. To sieve; to pass through a tammy cloth. Pate, /. Paste ; dough. Pate croquante, /. Crisp almond and sugar paste. Pate frisee,/. Short paste. Pate feuilletee,/. Puff paste. Pate pastillage,/. Gum paste. Pate, /. A pie; pasty; a savouiy meat pasty. Pate de Perigord. Name of a French pie, which derives its name from Perigueux, a place celebrated for its truffles. Patisser,/. To make pastry, e. Patisserie,/. Pastry, e. A pastry business. Patissier,/. Pastrycook, e. Pagpiettes, f. Slices of meat rolled with forcemeat. Pavot, f. Poppy, e. The seeds of this plant are used in stuffing mixtures and cakes. Paysanne (a la), /. Peasant’s fashion. Peche, /. Peach, e. A delicious juicy fruit, used for desserts and compote. Perdrix /. A full-grown partridge (ptarmigan). Persil, /. Parsley, e. A plant used for flavouring and garnishing. Persillade, /. A thick white sauce, in which a large quantity of parsley is used. Petit lait, /. Whey, e. Petits pois verts, /. Small green peas. Pheasant. Faisan,/. Pic-nic. The Annual Register (1802) says that “a new kind of entertainment has come into fashion, called ‘ Picnic suppers,’ where a variety of dishes are set down in a list, and whoever draws a particular dish must furnish it for the use of the company.” Piece de resistance. The principal joint of a dinner. Pike, e. Brochet,/. Pilau. Turkish national dish, made of rice and onions. Pilaw. An Indian dish, made of meat and rice. Pineapple, e. Ananas, f. Pint ad e, /. Guinea-fowl, a. A fowl of bluish-grey spotted with white. Piquante, /. ^ Sharp of flavour, stimulating, pungent or sour. Piquer (Piquee),/ To lard with strips of fat bacon, truffles, &c.528 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY PlSTACHES,/. Pistachios, e. Kernels of the nut of the turpentine- tree, used for flavouring and garnishing galantines, sweets, &c. Plie, /. Flounder, c. A small sea fish. Pluchb, /. The leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce, sorrel, cut small. They are used, according to direction, separately or mixed. Pluvier, /. Plover, e. Poche, ee,/. Poached, slightly boiled. Poele, /. Is a kind of rich gravy, which is used in expensive cookery to boil various meats in, in place of water. Poireau, /. Leek, e. Soup vegetable. Poires, /. Pears, e. Poisson, /. Fish, e. , Poivee, e. Pepper, e. Polenta. An Italian dish, commonly used in Italy. It is made of Indian com flour. In taste it resembles that of semolina. Pollo con Formaggio. Name of an Italian dish, composed of stewed chicken and Parmesan cheese. Polonaise (a la),/. Polish style, e. Pommes,/. Apples, e. Pommes de teeee, /. Potatoes, e. Pompadour. Jeanne Antoinette, Marquise (born 1721, died 1761), well known for her extravagance and indulgence in luxury of pleasure and eating. Porridge. A Scotch dish. Oatmeal porridge is an everyday article of diet of the Scottish peasantiy. It is both an agree- able as well as a nutritious article of food, served with milk, butter, salt, and cream ; also with sugar or treacle. Porterhouse steak. A thick steak cut from the middle of the ribs of beef. Potage, /. Soup, c. Potato. Potatoes were first introduced into England in 1681, by Thomas Heriot, and were for a long time after considered a,s a great delicacy, and could only be procured in small quantities at the price of 2s. per pound. After the middle of the seventeenth century they became gradually known and more extensively cultivated. Pot-au-feu, /. Is an economical and wholesome beef broth. It is the standard dish of all classes in France, and the origin of beef stock Potpourri. A stew of various lands of meats and spices; a favourite dish in Spain. Potrock. Name of a Russian thick soup. Potted. Preserved in a pot. Poulards,/. A very fat fowl. Poule, /. A hen, e. Poule-au-pot,/. Boiled fowl cooked in the stock-pot.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 529 Poulk de neigh, /. White grouse, e. Poulet, f. A young chicken. POULETTE, /. A sauce made of flour, stock, butter, and chopped herbs, used for the dishes prepared “ A. la poulette.” PouiiPETON or Polpetti. Slices of veal with minced meat. P HA line, /. Flavoured with burnt almonds. Pbe-sale, f. Meat of prime mutton (Southdown mutton). Pbintanier, -ere, /. A mixture of early spring vegetables. Profiteroles, /. A kind of light cake, baked in hot ashes, filled with cream. Prune, /. Plum, e. Puff-paste patties, e. Boucliees, /. Pumpernickel, g. Westphalian brown bread. Punch. A species of hot drink. Punch a la Romaine. Is a kind of soft white ice, made from lemon juice, white of egg, sugar, and rum. It is served in goblets, usually after the remove ; and it has the property of assisting considerably the functions of digestion. It forms a sort of interlude between two acts of that grand play—the dinner. Puree, /. A smooth pulp; mashed vegetables; thick soups. The name is also given to meat or fish which is cooked, pounded in a mortar, and passed through a sieve. PURSLANE. Is an American plant, used in salads, pot herbs, and pickles ; first introduced into England in 1652. Q. Quail, e. Caille,/. A bird of the grouse kind. Quark. Name of a German cheese, similar to curd cheese, known in France as “ fromage mou.” Quenelles, /. Forcemeat of different kinds, composed of fish, poultry or meat, eggs, fat, &c., shaped in various forms—balls, ovals, &c. They’are used as garnishing for soups or entrees, or are served separately as an entree. Queue,/. Tail. “ Queues de boeuf,” “ queues d’ecrevisses,” &c. Quince, e. Coing,/. A sour astringent fruit, used for compotes and marmalade. R. Rabbit, e. Lapin,/. Rafraichir,/. To refresh ; to cool. Ragout,/. A rich stew of meat, highly spiced. Raie, /. Skate, e. A flat sea fish. Raifort,/. Horseradish, e. Ramequin,/. Cheese fritter ; ramakins, e. Ramereau, /. Young wood pigeon. Rater,/. To scrape or shred. Raton, f. A kind of cheesecake.I 530 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Ravigote,/. A very richly flavoured green herb sauce; served cold. First heard of in 1720. A French writer, Ducereau, mentions it in one of his poems. Ravioles, /. Small round paste dumplings, filled with force- meat. Used as garniture for soups. Rechauffe, f. Warmed-up meat re-cooked. Reduibe, f. To boil down ; to reduce. Reine-Olaude, f. Greengage, e. Releveb,/. To remove ; to turn up. Releves, f. The removes. The remove joints or fish. Relish. A pleasing taste ; to give an excellent flavour. Remoulade,/. A cold sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs and mustard, used as salad-dressing, etc. Renaissance,/. A word used for dishes of modern invention. Rennet, e. Is the name given to the prepared inner mem- brane of a calf’s, pig’s, hare’s, or fowl’s stomach, which is used for curdling milk. Richelieu (Armancl Jean). A celebrated gourmet. French general and cardinal during the reigns of Louis XIII. and XIV.; born 1585, died 1612. Rillettes, /. A French savoury meat preparation, used for hors-d’oeuvres and savouries. Ris de veau,/. Sweetbread, e. Risotto. An Italian dish of rice and cheese. Rissole, ee,/. Well browned or baked; covered with crumbs. Rissoles, /. A mixture of minced fish or meat, enclosed in paste, half-moon shapes, and fried in fat or butter. Rizzebed itaddie. Is the name of a Scotch dish, made from haddocks or codfish. Robeet, f. Name of a brown spicy sauce, invented by a restaurant keeper cf that name in Paris, 1789. Robes de chambre (en),/. (in dressing gown). Paper cases filled with light iced cream ; potatoes cooked and served in their jackets. Roebuck, e. Chevreuil, f. Rognons,/. Kidneys, e. Romaine, f. Coss lettuce, e. A LA RoMAINE. Roman style. Romankeintjes. A Dutch pastry, made of eggs, sugar, and almonds. Roti, /. Roast meat, poultry and game. Roulade, f. Rolled meat, smoked and cooked. Roux, /. A preparation of butter and flour browned, used for making soups and sauces; the same mixture is also used when not browned for white soups and sauces, and is like- wise called roux. Royans. A delicately-flavoured small fish, similar to sardines, preserved in oil. Rump (of beef). The buttocks ; the end of the backbone of beef.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 631 S. Sab A yon, /'. Pudding sauce, composed of cream, white wine, and eggs. Saignant,/. Underdone, e. SALADE, /. Salad, e. Raw herbs, raw and cooked vegetables, etc., dressed with oil and vinegar. SALAMANDRE,/. This is a utensil which, after being made red- hot, is used for browning any dishes that want colour. Salami. An Italian sausage. Saleratus. Isa kind of baking-powder consisting of carbonate of potash, together with an acid. Salmi. A hash of game set to finish cooking when half roasted. Salpicon. A mince of poultry or game, with ham, tongue, and mushrooms ; used for croquettes, bouchees, rissoles, &c. Salzgurken. Is a German pickle, served with boiled or roast meats ; made of small cucumbers soused in salt water. Sanbaglioxe. Is a delicious sweet chocolate cream ; served in glasses either hot or cold. Sandwich. A hors-d’oeuvre. Two pieces of bread, buttered, with a thin slice of meat or edible paste between them. Saxgaree. The name of an Indian punch drink. It is made with sherry, water, lemon juice and sugar. Sangler, /. To prepare the ice mixture ready for freezing. One part of salt to five parts of broken ice is the proper pro- portion used for freezing. Sanglier,/. Wild boar, e. Sapaceau. An egg punch. Sarbotiere,/. The freezing kettle or freeziug pan. Sarcelle,/. Teal, e. Water-fowl similar to wild duck. Sarriette,/. Savoy cabbage, e. Sassafras. The name of an agreeable beverage, much drunk in North America. Sasser,/. To stir rapidly with a spoon in a stewpan. Sauce, f. Sauce, e. A liquid served and eaten with food, to improve its relish and to give flavour. Saucer, f. To sauce a dish ; to pour the sauce over anything. Sauciere,/. A sauceboat. A deep narrow-shaped dish in which sauce is served. Saucisse,/. Fresh pork sausages. Saucisson,/. Smoked sausages. Sauerkraut, y. Ohoucroute, /. Sourkrout, e. A kind of pickled cabbage; cabbage preserved in brine. A national dish of Germany. Served hot with bacon or sausages. Saumon,/. Salmon, e. Saute pan. Sautoire, f. A shallow thin-bottomed copper frying pan. 34532 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Sauter -ee, /. To toss over the fire, in a frying pan with little butter or fat, anything that requires sharp tire and quick cooking. Savarin (Brillat). Born 1755. Famous gastronomic writer; author of the excellent work entitled “ Physiologie du Gout, ou Meditations de Gastronomie transcendante,” published after his death. A light spongy yeast cake is named after him. Saveloy. A kind of smoked pork sausage; it is highly seasoned, and has an addition of saltpetre to give the meat a red colour. SCALD. To scald milk, is to bring it nearly to the boil. Scorzonera. A kind of vegetable root; treated and served like parsnips or salsify. Scotch style. A l’Ecossaise,/. Seakale. As an article of diet, seakale is very little known on the Continent; it grows wild in all parts of Europe. It was first grown in England in the middle of the eighteenth centuiy by a gardener in Stoke Fleming, who cultivated the plants, which he found growing wild. They were so much appreciated that the gardener’s master presented some of the roots to his friends at Bath, after which they became popular in all parts of England. Seasoning, e. Assaisonnement,/. Semoule, /. Semolina, e. Serviette,/. Table napkin, e. En serviette, served in a napkin or dished up in a napkin. Sevigne, /. A French soup named after the Marchioness Sevigne of Rabutin-Chantel, a'French authoress, born 1626, died 1696. Shane jelly A kind of savoury jelly, lightly seasoned, recommended to weak people. Shred. Is to slice anything so finely with a sharp knife that the shreds curl. Singer. To dust with flour from the dredging box. Sippets. Small slices of bread cut into different forms, fried or toasted, served as garnishing with meat entries, or for borders of savoury dishes. Sirloin, e. Aloyeau,/. The sirloin of beef is said to owe its name to King Charles II., who, dining off a loin of beef, and being well pleased with it, asked the name of the joint. On being told, he said, “ For its merit, then, I will knight it, and henceforth it shall be called Sir Loin.” In an old ballad this circumstance is thus mentioned :— “ Our Second Charles, of fame facete, On loin of beef did dine ; He held his sword, pleased, o’er the meat,— ‘ Arise thou famed Sir Loin.’ ”VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN .COOKERY 583 Skewers for joints, etc. Brochettes,/. Snail (edible). Escargot,/. Snipe, c. Becasse,/. A small marsh bird. SOJA. An Indian flavouring sauce, very sharp. Sorbet,/. An iced Turkish drink; also the name of a water ice with rum flavour, usually served in goblets. Sorrel, e. Oseille,/. Soubise,/. A smooth onion pulp served with various kinds of meat entrees. The name is supposed to come from Prince Charles Soubise (born 1715, died 1787) who was a celebrated epicure. He served as field marshal duiing the reign of Louis XIV. of France. Souffle,/. A very light baked pudding or omelet. Souffle glace,/. A very light sweet cream mixture, iced and served in cases. Soup, e. Potage, /. Spaghetti. A kind of very small macaroni. Spanish style. A l’Espagnole, /. Spice, e. fipice,/. Stechi. A Russian oatmeal soup. Stock, e. Fond,/. The broth in which meat and bones have been boiled, of which soups and sauces are made. Succotash. An American dish made of green maize and baked beans. Sucking pig, c. Cochon de lait,/. Sucre,/. Sugar, e. Supreme. /. A rich, delicately flavoured white cream sauce, made from chicken broth. Suzanne (Alfred). Name of a French chef, an authority on the culinary treatment of eggs. Author of “ Egg Cookery: over 150 ways of cooking and serving Eggs;” and “One Hundred Ways of Cooking Potatoes.” Sweet dishes, e. Entremets (de douceur),/. T. Table d’hote. The table at which the principal meals at an hotel or restaurant are served to guests; a common table for guests ; an ordinary. Table napkin, e. Serviette,/. Tagliarini. A kind of macaroni paste cut in fine shreds. Taillevent. Name of a clever artist in cookery who superin- tended the kitchens of Charles VII. of France from 1430 to 1461. Inventor of a sweet soup, called “potage dorc,” the recipe of which is anything but recommendable for the present time.584 PRACTICAL, GASTRONOMY Talleyrand. Several high-class dishes are styled thus. The name comes from an old French ducal family. Tamis,/. Tammy, e. Woollen canvas cloth which is used for straining soups and sauces. Tarragon, e. Estragon,/. Tartars,/. A cold sauce, made of yolks of eggs, oil, mustard, capers, gherkins, &c., served with fried fish or cold meats ; also a salad dressing. Tendrons, /. Name applied to gristles of veal, &c. Terrapin. Small American turtle. Terrine,/. China pan or pot, used for pftt.es and for potted meats. Tete de veau,/. Calf’s head, e. Timbale,/. Literally, “kettle-drum;” a kind of crusted hash baked in a mould. Toast. Dried and scorched slices of bread. Tobasco. Name of a savoury Indian sauce. Toddy. An American punch. Tom and Jerry. An American drink ; an egg punch. Tomber a glace, /. To reduce a liquid until it has the appear- ance of a thick syrup. Topinambours,/. Jerusalem artichokes, e. Torttje,/. Turtle, e. Toulouse (a la),/. A rich white stew of white meats, mush- rooms, truffles, &c., used for filling crusts or for garnishing. Tournedos,/. Small thin fillets of beef served as entries. TouRNER,/. To stir a sauce; also, to pare and cut roots. Tourte, /. An open tart baked in a round shallow tin. Tourtelettes,/. Small tartlets, e. Tranche,/. Slice, e. Trancher,/. To cut; to carve. Trautmannsdorfe. Name of an Austrian Count, born 1749, died 1827. Several sweets are styled after his name. Trifles. A dish of sweetmeats and cake. A second course dish of cakes, biscuits, jams, &c. Trousser,/. To truss a bird. Truffer,/. To garnish a sauce wdth truffles, or to season the interior of poultry or game with truffle stuffing, such as capons, turkeys, and pheasants. Truite saumonee,/. Salmon trout, e. Turban,/. Ornamental entrees of chicken and forcemeat, dressed in the form of a turban, which verbally means a hair-dress worn in the East. Turnips, e. Navets,/. Turtle. The turtle was first brought to Engjand in the middle of the seventeenth century. Its first appearance as an edible dish is repulsive. We learn from Sir Hans Sloane, that at the beginning of the last century turtle was only eaten in Jamaica by the poor.VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 535 Tutti-frutti. An Italian expression for various kinds of fruits, or a mixture of cooked vegetables. Tyrolienne (a Lit), Tyrolean style. IT. Ude (Louis Eustache). A famous chef, at one time cook to Louis XVI. and the Earl of Sefton. Author of “ The French Cook.” UsQUEBAGH. The name of an Irish beverage, consisting of a compound spirit made with spices and sugar. V. Yaxille,/. Vanilla, e. The fruit of a fragrant plant; the most delicate flavouring for all kinds of sweet dishes. Vanille (a la),/. Vanilla-flavoured. Vanneau,/. Plover; lapwing; pewit. Vaxner, /. To stir a sauce quickly, so as to work it up lightly, in order to make it smooth. Vatel. Name of a clever and ingenious chef, who acted in that capacity in the service of Louis XIV. of France. He took his life because the fish for the royal banquet did not arrive in time. Dishes “ tl la Vatel ” are much appreciated. Veau,/. Veal, e. Vegetables. Legumes, f. Veloute, /. A rich white sauce with mushroom juice, often used to improve the flavour of soups or made dishes. Venaison,/. Venison, e. Venitienxe (a la),/. Venetian style, e. Vermicelle,/. Vermicelli, it. Very fine rolls of paste, made from the dough of wheat flour, and forced through cylinders or pipes till it takes a slender worm-like form, when it is dried; used in soups, puddings, and for crumbing. Vert-pre,/. Name of a green herb sauce. Viande,/. Meat, viands, e. Meat; dressed victuals. Viennoise (A la). Vienna style. Vin BLAXC (Ac),/. Done in white wine. Vinaigre,/. Vinegar, c. Vinaigrer, to season with vinegar. Vinaigrette,/, a sauce of vinegar, oil, pepper, and herbs. VOLAILLE, /. Poultry, e. Vol-AU-VENT,/. A light round puff paste crust, filled with deli- cately flavoured ragouts of chicken, sweetbread, etc. (a la financier e). Voliere. Birdcage style of dressing poultry or game. Vopalliere. A dish of small chicken fillets, larded and braised, served with truffle sauce. Vraie tortue,/. Real turtle, c.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 586 w. White stew, e. Blanquette,/. Whiting, e. Merlans,/. Woodcock, e. Coq de bruy&re,/. X. Xavier. Name of a clear soup. Supposed to have been intro- duced by King Louis XVIII. in honour of Count Xavier of Saxony, who died in 1806. Xeres. Spanish strong wine of deep amber colour and aromatic flavour; so called from Xeres, a place near Cadiz. Y. Yeast, e. Levain ; levure,/. Young wild boar, e. Marcassin,/. Z. Zabajone (Italian). A frothing mixture of wine, yolks of eggs, and sugar, thickened over the fire, and served hot in glasses. Zambaglione. A kind of chocolate cream ; served in glasses, either hot or cold. Zephire,/. Name of small oval-shaped forcemeat dumplings, a kind of quenelles, which are poached and served with a rich sauce. Zuppa al brodo. A fish broth with toasted bread and cheese. Zythum. A liquid made from malt and wheat; a kind of malt beverage.637 PART IX. PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. SOUPS. Celery Soup.—Wash six good heads of celery thoroughly in salt and water. Peel two onions and cut them up small with the celery. Stew for two hours in some stock, with 1 oz. of pearl barley and a small bunch of herbs. Before serving, season the soup with pepper and salt, and remove the herbs. Sago Soup.—Wash in several waters 6 oz. of sago; put it into three quarts of stock, nicely flavoured with vegetables ; let it stew gently for an hour or rather more, stirring it occasionally to prevent burning. Should the soup be liked thicker, allow ^ oz. more sago to each quart of stock. Add pepper and salt to taste. Vegetable Marrow Soup.—Peel and slice one large marrow, or two small ones, and one onion. Boil them in any stock you have for two hours. Rub them through a sieve. Add one pint of milk, pepper, and salt; warm and serve. Allow about three pints of stock for this soup, or, instead, that quantity of water and 3 oz. of good dripping. In this latter case thicken with 1 oz. of flour. Milk Soup for Young Children.—Put two pints of good sweet milk into a large enamelled saucepan, and bring to the boil. Add a little salt and l|oz. of sugar. Mix 1 oz. of corn flour well with a little cold milk. Stir it into the milk when almost boiling. Boil for twenty minutes, stirring gently. For younger children this may be prepared with half milk and half water. Soup Balls.—Slake 2 oz. corn-flour gradually with half a pint of milk, pour into a saucepan, and put on the lire. Add fully 1 oz. butter and a pinch of salt, and stir till thick. Then add one or two beat-up eggs, according as the balls are intended for bouillon or sweet soup, and a flavouring of nutmeg or lemon-peel. Form the balls with a spoon, put them into boiUng water, and boil uncovered two to three minutes. Mulligatawny Soup.—Take 2 lbs. of scrag of mutton, and soak in two quarts of water. Fry two apples, two onions,538 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY two turnips, two leeks, and a bunch of herbs. Pour on a pint of the liquor in which the meat is soaking, and boil for half an hour. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour and one of curry- powder with cold water, stir into the liquid, add the rest of the water and the meat, and boil for three hours. Pass through a sieve, boil again, add salt, and serve with boiled rice, and a dash of lemon if approved. Barley Soup.—Wash and soak T lb. of pearl barley, drain it on a sieve, and then put it into a saucepan with one quart of white stock. Let it boil for two hours very gently ; take out two spoonfuls of the barley, and rub the rest through a sieve. Ten minutes before serving, the stock, after having been allowed to cool, should be boiled up, adding the yolks of three or four eggs, some cream, and a little butter. Stir gently until quite smooth. Vegetable Soup.—Wash thoroughly a lettuce, a handful each of sorrel, cabbage, and spinach, then shred into small pieces, and put over the fire, with 2 oz. of butter, for at least ten minutes, turning over the vegetables with a fork the while. To this add one quart of hot stock, and simmer for one hour, only letting il boil up at the last. Then add four yolks of eggs, and return to the tire, taking care the soup does not boil after the eggs have been added. Stir iii a gill of good cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve in a hot tureen. Asparagus Soup.—Make three pints of stock (with one dessertspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract) ; add three onions, one large turnip, a few sweet herbs, and the white part of a bundle of asparagus; let all simmer till soft, rub them through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, have ready the green tops of the asparagus, and add them to the sou;), and simmer for fifty minutes. Julienne Soup.—Cut into thin strips, about one incb long, two carrots, two turnips, two onions, two leeks, half a head of celery, a little sorrel, if liked, one lettuce. Fry the carrots in 2 oz. of butter, and add to two quarts of boiling water, with the rest of the vegetables, and stew gently for one and a half hour ; stir in one dessertspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract, add pepper and salt, and boil for five minutes. Serve with pieces of bread cut the size of a shilling, sufficient for seven persons. Julienne Soup made from Dried Vegetables.—Steep the julienne in water or stock, and let it soak for an hour. Put it on the fire in astewpan, let it boil for forty-five minutes, season with salt and pepper, and serve. If water is used instead of stock, stir in a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract to every quart of soup. Sweetbread Soup.—Put one or more sweetbreads, according to the quantity of soup required, on the fire in cold water, which,PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 589 when warm, must be replaced by fresh cold water and heated again, whereby the sweetbread will become blanched. Then put it again into cold water, take off the skin, remove the fleshy parts, cut the sweetbread into small pieces, and fry in butter till yellow. At the same time flour and butter are to be stirred till yellow and quite smooth in a quart of stock (two teaspoonfuls of Liebig Company’s extract in one quart of boiling water) ; boil up, add the sweetbread to it and boil again for about twenty minutes. Serve up the soup with a little cayenne pepper, or some fresh finely chopped parsley, beaten up with the yolk of an egg. Gravy Soup.—Take the bones of any cold meat, and stew gently for four hours in two quarts of water, with one onion, one bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste. When nearly done stir in one dessertspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract and, if desired, thicken with a little oatmeal; strain before serving. Lenten Soup.—Take 3 lbs. of gravy beef, a calf’s, foot, and 3 lbs. of shin of beef; boil these down in three or four quarts of water, season with carrots, turnips, celery, fried onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Stew for six hours or so, strain, and cut off the fat when cold. Eeboil, simmer, and about twenty minutes before serving throw in balls of motsa meal made as follows: | lb. of well-sifted motsa flour, four beaten eggs, 2 oz. of finely chopped suet, all seasoned with salt, pepper, ginger, and nutmeg. Before placing the soup on table throw in a small onion, well browned, in a dessertspoonful of very hot olive oil. FISH. How to Curry Fish..—Very often some fish is left from dinner which is considered not good enough to be partaken of afterwards, because in warming it the delicate flavour is lost. Say you have some cold turbot or cod left; well, whilst it is hot, take away all the bones and the black skin, and place the pieces of fish on a plate, then boil three eggs hard, take 4 oz. of rice boiled, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, and one pint of milk, two dessertspoonfuls of curry powder, two of mango chutney, and a spoonful of salt. Put the butter and flour in a saucepan, mix well together, add milk, powder, chutney, and salt. Stir until it boils, then put in the fish, rice, and e^gs sliced. Mix them gently, but well, together. It is an excellent dish for breakfast. Soles and whiting can also be prepared thus. Curried Haddock.—Clean and skin the fish, take tfie flesh from the bones and divide it into pieces, about three inches long and one inch wide. For a fish 3 lbs. in weight put three-quarters of a pint of stock, (made with three-fourths of a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract) into a saucepan, and thicken it with a dessert-540 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY spoonful of curry powder and one teaspoonful of flour, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of the gravy. Mince two onions very finely, and put them into the soup. Add. one-fourth pint of cream. Flour the pieces of fish, and fry them in hot lard till they are browned. Drain them from the fat and put them into the gravy. Simmer gently for ten minutes, skim the sauce, put the fish into the middle of the dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Baked Trout.—Thoroughly cleanse two trout and stuff with forcemeat, and sew them up. Rub them over with egg and bread-crumbs and lay in a deep dish. Add one pint of stock, two onions sliced (one glass of port wine, if desired), one bay- leaf, a sprinkling of herbs, and bake for one hour. Melt 11 oz. of butter in a small saucepan or stewpan, and add a little flour; strain the liquor from the fish and boil, stirring gently; season with pepper and salt and the squeeze of a lemon. Serve the trout garnished with slices of lemon, and the sauce separately. Mackerel and haddock can also be cooked this way. Fillets of Sole (Parisian style).—Take some fillets of soles; boil the bones, and add 1 oz. of flour and 2 oz. of butter to the liquor, with the beaten yolk of an egg. To make the fillet pink add some lobster spawn pounded with butter in a mortar. Spread the mixture on each fillet; boil very gently, dish up, and pour sauce over, to which some cut oysters and fine shreds of lobster meat have been added. Grilled Sole.—To prepare this dish easily, a double gridiron should be used; but if not obtainable, the fish can, with care, be turned while broiling on a single one. The sole, having first been well dried, should be dipped in oil or melted butter, then placed on the gridiron, and set over a brisk but clear fire. The bars of the gridiron should be slightly greased and warmed before laying on the fish, which will take ten minutes, more or less, according to size, to cook. Have a dish quite hot, and having put on this a small piece of fresh butter, serve the sole on it, with a few slices of cut lemon. A sole for broiling may also be dipped first in flour, if preferred. Bed Mullet.—Flour and salt the mullet, and fry crisply in a little oil, and dish up. To the same oil add an equal quantity of vinegar, a little chopped parsley, a sprinkling of flour, and some garlic if agreeable. Boil up, pour over the mullet, and serve. Crayfish Cutlets.—The following toothsome dish forms a nice change for the breakfast table. Procure some fresh crayfish; remove, the so-called heads, and all the hard parts of the tail with the exception of the terminal piece. Slit them down the centre, and gently press or beat them flat. Sprinkle with pepper salt, and soup-herbs to taste. Dip in yolk of egg ; dredge with flour or Rizine, and fry to a rich pale-brown colour. Serve with a garnish of fried parsley or with tomato sauce.541 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES Salmon or Cod Cutlets a la Victoria. —Cut 2 lbs. of the fish into slices, about two inches wide and an inch thick, dry and sprinkle with pepper and salt, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in enough hot fat to cover them. Have ready the following sauce : Three-quarters of a pint of strong Liebig Company’s extract gravy (one teaspoonful), one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce or mushroom ketchup, a little minced parsley, a glass of brown sherry, the juice of half a lemon, pepper and salt; thicken with a little flour. Take up the cutlets carefully, and arrange on a hot dish; pour the sauce over them. Crofttes of Haddock -with. Ttizine.—Ingredients: 1 oz. rizine, 1 lb. dried haddock, 2 oz. butter, bread, one egg (hard boiled). Mode : Pour boiling water over the fish, and let it remain three minutes. Boil the Rizine in water till done (about five minutes), scrape the fish from the bones, add it to the cooked Bizine, also half the butter and a little pepper. Cut, toast, and butter some slices of bread, spread, over the same the mixture. Chop the yolk and white of egg separately, and use each piece alternately to garnish. Scalloped Shrimps.—Pound in a mortar 4 oz. of cold salmon and two boned anchovies, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; then add a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, one of bread- crumbs, one of tomato sauce, and the same of good gravy, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and half a pint of picked shrimps. Mix all well together, and put in a saucepan over the fire till well heated. Lay as many scallop-shells as you require on a hot stove, and fill each with the mixture; brown the tops with a salamander or hot iron, squeeze over them the juice of a lemon, and serve with thin slices of toasted bread. MADE DISHES. Salmi of Duck.—Take the giblets of a duck and put them into a stewpan with some stock, rather highly seasoned with salt, pepper, and cayenne, an onion cut into small pieces, and two cloves. Put the stewpan by the side of the fire, where the contents can simmer slowly. Roast the duck for about twenty minutes, then cut it up into neat joints. Lay these in the gravy and allow them to simmer gently for half an hour. Arrange the joints when done on a hot dish ; add the juice of a lemon to the gravy, and strain it carefully over the duck. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Ragoftt of Poultry.—Any kind of poultry may be used. Half roast the bird. Carve it into joints, and stew in good Liebig stock, with two onions, two dozen corns of allspice and black pepper, a few cloves and a piece of lemon-peel. Skim the stew, and let it simmer for about three-quarters of an hour, or more, according to the size of the bird. Strain off the gravy,PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 542 leaving the bird in the stewpan to keep it hot. Skim off fat, and thicken the gravy with butter rolled in brown Hour. Add to this the juice of a squeezed lemon. Dish up the bird, and pour the sauce over it. Stewed Pigeons.—Cut the pigeons in halves ; add three pints of stock, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour-. These should be cooked in the morning, and put between two plates with a weight on the top to flatten them. The sauce is made of 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of chopped ham, two shallots, one small onion, one bay-leaf, and two tomatoes, fried together; then add a gill of sherry, pepper and salt, and simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, and pass through a sieve. Pour this mixture over the pigeons in a stewpan, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Place the pigeons in a dish, garnish with turned olives and spinach, and add the sauce. Broiled Partridge.—Take two partridges as for roasting, cut lliem ip two, and thoroughly clean the insides, pepper and salt well; place them on a grill, flesh downwards, over a clear fire ; broil for twenty minutes. When done, serve hot with a rich clear gravy, made of | pint of water and 1 teaspoonful of Liebig Com- pany’s extract of meat. Note.—Pheasants may be cooked in this way, but must be cut into four. Chicken Cutlets.—Take the legs of the fowl, removing the thigh-bones, but leaving the drumsticks in to keep the cutlets in shape. Put the legs into a saucepan together with as much good stock as will cover them ; simmer very gently until they become tender, then remove and place them between two dishes, putting a weight upon the top, and set aside until cold. Then trim off the edges, shaping them into cutlet form, season with a little pepper and salt, brush over with a little butter, dip into egg, then into fine bread-crumbs; and fry in butter or lard until nicely browned (whether butter or lard be used for the frying, it should be very hot when the cutlets are put in) ; turn them from one side to the other while cooking, so that they may be evenly browned, and when done place on a hot dish, and send to table with a good gravy made of the fowl bones and trimmings. Stewed Babbit with Onions.—Choose a nice young rabbit, wipe it carefully with a damp cloth, and cut into joints with a sharp knife. Place the rabbit in a stewpan with one pint and a half of hot water, four onions, one tablespoonful of ketchup, salt and pepper. Stew gently for two hours. Before serving, break up the onions with a fork, thicken the gravy with flour, and colour it. Serve with neatly cut pieces of toast. Rabbit Pie.—Line a pie-dish with paste, then a layer of cold rabbit, a layer of ham cut in thin slices, and one of hard- boiled eggs sliced, then a few pieces of rabbit. Season with pepper and salt and a sprinkling of sweet herbs. Pour in aboutPRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 543 half a pint of good gravy (three-parts of a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract), cover with paste, and bake quickly. Beef Olives.—Cut any cold underdone beef in slices, half an inch thick and four inches square; cover them with bread- crumbs, a little fat, finely-chopped onions, pepper and salt. Roll the slices up and fasten with a small skewer; put them into a stewpan with enough water to stew them in ; when nearly done, stir in a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract, and leave for a few minutes. Berlin Steak.—Two pounds round of beef, raw; one medium- sized onion, t lb. beef suet, pepper and salt to taste. Chop the beef and suet very fine; chop the onion very fine; mix well together, and form into shapes size of a fish-ball, and fry slowly in butter till thoroughly cooked through, say for five minutes. Mushroom or tomato sauce may be served with this dish. Braised Beef.—Take 9 lbs. of rump of beef, and cover thickly with small pieces of salt pork or ham, cut half an inch square and rolled in the following seasoning, well mixed: Four onions, a little parsley, thyme, and a little garlic, finely mixed. To what is left over of the seasoning add one pint of vinegar, one good glass of port wine, and a teacup of salad oil. Steep the beef in this for one night. When ready to cook, paper it well up and roast; baste well with half a pint of stock for two and a half hours. Strain the gravy and put into a saucepan, thicken, and add half a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract. Curry Pasties.—Take some cold meat, free it from skin, fat, and gristle, chop it very finely, season with pepper, salt, and curry powder. Mash some potatoes with an egg, season with pepper and salt. Line a few patty-pans with potato, fill them with meat, cover them over with potato again, ornament the edge, brush them with milk, and bake in a quick oven. Mutton Brains with Tomatoes.—Select three brains and from eight to ten tomatoes'; have ready 2 oz. of butter; wash the brains thoroughly; cleanse, boil, and cut each into three equal parts. Butter the dish (which will afterwards be placed upon the table), dredge it well with bread-crumbs, and lay in the pieces of brain with halves of tomato between each ; place the cut ends of the fruit upwards. Now add a teacupful of good stock; sprinkle with pepper and salt to taste, dredge thickly with bread-crumbs, put the butter in small bits on top, bake to a deep-brown colour, and serve hot. Mutton Cutlets with Macaroni.—Trim the best end of a leg of mutton into neat cutlets, dip them into beaten egg, and sprinkle each side with grated Parmesan cheese, season with pepper and salt; cover with bread-crumbs, patting them neatly on with the blade of a knife. Fry in butter and lard melted544 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY together. Dish up in a circle on a border of mashed potato; fill the centre with boiled macaroni, cut into half-inch lengths, and mix with an ounce of grated Parmesan, and sufficient sauce to hold it together. Serve either half-glaze round or a little sauce. Calves’ Brain Cutlets.—Soak the brains in tepid salted water, skin, and thoroughly cleanse in plenty of water, throw into boiling water and boil ten minutes, then into cold water to harden and whiten them; drain on a colander. Wien cold, shape into oval cutlets, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry a light brown in plenty of good boiling lard; drain and serve hot either with tomato sauce (round, not over), mushroom sauce, or plain white sauce made with milk or cream, and flavoured with a pinch of mace, cayenne, salt, teaspoonful of sherry, and a few drops of lemon-juice. • Croquette Fritters.—With about i lb. of either cold roast veal or fowl, or both, have about the" same weight of raw beef, and 4 oz. of the suet belonging to the latter. Re- move all gristle, skin, &c., then chop all together into as fine a mince as possible. The following ingredients must also be chopped finely: | lb. of mushrooms, one big truffle, two carrots, one onion, eight or ten oysters, and some spiigs of parsley. Mix everything together, season with pepper and salt, and form into a paste with mashed boiled chestnuts and as many eggs as are necessary. Spread some flour on a flat dish, drop the paste (a tablespoonful at a time), form into sausage shapes, dip into a savoury batter, and fry in boiling fat until a rich brown. Send to table nicely “piled up,” and garnished with parsley. Frying Batter.—Stir lightly J lb. of flour into a gill of warm water, with a tablespoonful of oil, a pinch of salt, and the well-whisked white of an egg. Work well, and allow it to stand a little before it is used. Curried Mutton.—Ingredients: 2 lbs. leg of mutton, 4 oz. butter or dripping, 2 oz. onions, 1 dessertspoonful of '■> Empress ” currie powder, one ditto of currie paste, pinch of salt, one pint of broth or water. Now cut up your mutton into ipieces the size of a large walnut, then put butter or dripping into a frying-pan ; when hot put in the mutton and sliced onions. Stir this over a brisk fire for five minutes, which will give a nice colour to the meat. Now put it into a saucepan, add the powder, salt, and paste, mix this well together with a spoon, and then add the broth or water; allow it to boil gently for one hour, when it will be ready to serve with rice. How to Boil Bice for Curries.—Take (for a small party of four) 4 oz. of Carolina rice, put it into a saucepan with three pints of cold water and a pinch of common salt, allow this to boil over a sharp fire for fifteen minutes, then strain it; put the545 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES rice into a basin of cold water, and then drain off the water through a colander or sieve, place it before your kitchen fire in order that it may dry and also get hot, and stir it occa- sionally to loosen it. SAUCES, &c. Sauce for Mutton Cutlets.—Stew in half a pint of gravy (made with half a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract) one dozen button mushrooms chopped, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of parsley, and half a shallot, shred finely ; thicken with butter, rolled in flour, take out the bay-leaf, and add salt and pepper. Economical Mayonnaise Sauce for Cold. Meat, Pish, Salads, &c.—The yolks of three very hard-boiled eggs and the yolk of one unboiled egg are mashed very fine ; then add two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of grated shallots, some salt, pepper, the juice of one lemon or a little sharp vinegar, and stir the whole till it has the appearance of cream; add further, while constantly stirring, one-eighth of a pint of olive oil, and, when this is worked in by degrees, a cupful of cold- white sauce (bSchamel or veloute), and as much sharp vinegar as is required to flavour. Brown Onion Sauce.—Slice five or six small onions, fry them in a stewpan with dripping until they are a nice brown colour; add half a pint of good brown stock, stand the pan at the side of the fire, and let the sauce simmer slowly until the onions are cooked. Oyster Sauce.—Boil the beards of the oysters in a little water, with some lemon-rind, a little white pepper, and one bay- leaf, and strain through a sieve. Fry a large tablespoonful of flour in plenty of butter till pale yellow, and stir in the broth, strained from the beards, and the juice of one lemon. Let this sauce boil up with sufficient Liebig Company’s extract of meat and salt, add half a glassful of white wine, and stir in a little mace and one or two yolks of eggs. As the oysters become hard bj' boiling, they should, with their liquor, be added to the sauce only when quite ready. Green Sauce.—Pound a plateful of well-washed parsley in a mortar, add a teacupful of soaked bread, eight boned anchovies, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and about half a pint of salad dressing by degrees. Melted-butter Sauce.—In making this always put the butter into a saucepan, and when oiled stir in the flour. Work it smooth, then gradually add the required quantity of boiling water. Bacon Sauce.—Cut some bacon up small and fry it slowly, stirring frequently; add plenty of onions, also cut small, andPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 546 when these commence to turn of a yellowish colour add one or two tablespoonfuls of (lour, stir the sauce for a little while, and reduce it with boiling water to a smooth sauce ; then add salt, vinegar, pepper, and Liebig Company’s extract of meat; let it boil well, and serve with potatoes and mashed peas. Sweet Sauce for Puddings.—Boil the peel of one lemon in half a pint of water with 3 ox. of sugar for ten minutes. Remove the lemon, and thicken the sauce with two teaspoonfuls of flour and 2 oz. of butter, previously worked together; stir all till it is thick, then add a few drops of vanilla essence. Lemon Sauce.—A delicate and delicious sauce for light boiled puddings may be made in the following manner:—Cut the rind of half a lemon very thin, taking off none of the white; boil it for three minutes in half a teacupful of water; strain into it the juice of a lemon, add two lumps of sugar, and add, just before serving, ten drops of brandy. MISCELLANEOUS SAVOURY DISHES FOR BREAKFAST, SUPPER, &c. Brown Fricasseed Eggs.—Melt 1^ oz. of butter with one teaspoonful of warm water, a little chopped parsley, one slice of onion, and two mushrooms. When done pour in a small cupful of gravy, thickened with Hour and seasoned with pepper and salt. Cut three hard-boiled eggs into slices, add them to the sairce, and, when boiled up, serve hot. Ham Cake.—Take the remains of a ham that maybe getting dry, pound it in a mortar very finely with all the fat, season it with pepper and mixed spice, add to it clarified butter sufficient to make it moist, put it into a mould, and place it in the oven for about half an hour (it should be prepared the day before it is wanted) ; put the mould for a few minutes in warm water in order that it may be turned out properly. Tongue or cold beef may be substituted for the ham, but if the former is used it must be mixed with a larger quantity of butter in the pounding. If it is properly seasoned and covered with clarified butter, the preparation will keep some time. Meat Pancakes.—Ingredients: 2 eggs, } pint of milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, ( lb. cold meat, thickened gravy, 2 oz. lard. Mode: chop meat finely, and add seasoning to taste and sufficient gravy to make it moist. Mix flour and ltizine in a basin, add milk and the eggs well beaten, let the batter stand twenty minutes ; put a small piece of lard into the frying-pan, when quite hot, pour in sufficient batter to well cover the bottom ; when brown, turn over and brown the other side ; then turn on to a piece of paper, spread on one half a layerPRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 547 of the prepared meat, fold the other half over, arrange in a pile, and garnish with parsley. Macaroni au Gratin.—Put ^lb. macaroni in some boiling water with a little salt, boil it till soft, but not pappy, drain it well from the water, return it to the saucepan, with three table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan, a lump of butter, a little pepper, and a ladleful of white sauce ; stir it over the fire till quite hot again; have ready some pieces of fried bread or buttered toast, and lay them round a deep pie-dish ; then put in the macaroni, add three or four small bits of butter, and sprinkle the top with brown bread-crumbs ; bake for a few minutes in a brisk oven. Savoury Cassolettes.—Ingredients: J lb. rizine, ^ oz. butter, one pint of stock, seasoned to taste. Mode : Cook in the same way as Sweet Cassolettes (see page 558), and when cool cut into rounds, brush over with egg, and roll in bread-crumbs and fry in hot fat a golden brown. Scoop out the centres of discs, fill in with minced meat or sa voury mixture, and replace thescooped- out portion as a lid or cap, and serve. Savoury of Artichokes.— Boil 1 lb. of Jerusalem artichokes till quite soft, then drain them well from the water, and mash them with a wooden spoon ; mix in a large tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little salt, cayenne, the beaten yolk of an egg, and sufficient flour to make it a proper consistency ; drop the mixture from a spoon in small cakes into boiling butter, and fry them a light brown on both sides, drain them well, and serve very hot. Oyster Toast.—Cut four slices of bread, pare off the crusts, and toast them. Butter the toast on both sides. Then select a dozen of fine fat and plump oysters, and mince them; place them thickly between the slices of toast, seasoning with cayenne pepper. Beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix them with half a pint of cream, adding, if thought necessary, a few blades of mace. Put the whole into a saucepan, and set it over the fire to simmer till thick; but do not allow it to boil, and stir it well, lest it should curdle. When it is near boiling heat, take it off and pour it over the toast. Cheese Cigarettes. — Ingredients : 2 oz. Rizine, grated cheese, half-pint milk, one yolk of egg, \ lb. short paste. Mode : Boil Rizine in milk six minutes, then add yolk of egg, cheese, pepper, salt, and mustard to taste. Roll paste out very thin, cut in bands 4 inches wide, spread over some of the mixture, roll up in the form of cigars, egg edge to make a secure join, and fry in hot fat a nice brown (about five minutes). Then arrange in cross-bars, three and three, garnishing corners with parsley. Tomatoes au Gratin.—Cut the tomatoes in halves, take out some of the insides, and mix with it a little grated bread, 35548 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY some Parmesan cheese, a mushroom or two very finely chopped, and pepper and salt; fill the tomatoes with this mixture, place them in a buttered tin, with a little bit of butter on each, and bake in a moderate oven. Ham Toast. —Mince J- lb. of lean ham very fine, and mix it with t, oz. of butter, pepper to season, and the yolks of two or three eggs. Put the mixture in a small saucepan, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Spread on toast, and serve very hot. Curried Kidneys for Breakfast.—Take 2 kidneys, 2 oz. butter, one spoonful of currie paste, pinch of salt. Skin the kidneys, wash them and slice them very fine, put the butter into a frying-pan, and when hot throw in the kidneys; stir them over a sharp fire for three minutes, take them off, add the salt and paste. Mix well together, and serve up on toast. Potato Salad.—In many families cold boiled potatoes are considered as waste, and do not make their appearance a second time at table. If cut into thin slices, and di-essed with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, also, if possible, with beetroot and celery added to them, they compose a most excellent and refreshing salad, especially when lettuce is scarce. A little chopped parsley should always be sprinkled Qver this dish as a. garnish. Dish of Minee with Rizine Border.—Boil 6 oz. Eizine in sufficient water with a saltspoonful of salt and 1, oz. butter until done. Have ready to serve some hash or minced meat; put Ihe cooked Rizine round the dish and fill centre with the meat; brush border with yolk of egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, put into hot oven to brown. Serve hot. This will be found a, good substitute for potatoes or rice, more easily and quickly cooked. Beef and Veal Cutlets Baked.— Chop finely lb. of nice steak, the same weight of veal and 4 oz. of suet belonging to the latter, 8 oysters, 8 small mushrooms, 4 shallots, and 2 oz. of parsley. Season highly with a teaspoonful of hot spices and salt, and flavour with the rind of half a lemon grated, a little sweet marjoram and thyme. It should be thoroughly mixed while dry, and then made into a thick paste with four or five eggs, or as many as necessary. Cut into cutlet shapes, lay them on a buttered baking-tin, squeeze a lemon over them, and put them into a brisk oven. Beef Rissoles.—Mince finely some lean beef, a little suet, one onion, three or four .sprigs of parsley, and a cupful of grated bread-crumbs; mix all thoroughly, moisten with beaten egg. roll into balls, flour and fry them. Have ready three-quarters of a pint of gravy, slightly .thickened, and serve over the rissoles. Vienna Steak.—Ingredients: ) lb. Rizine, one pint coldPRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 549 ■water or stock, A oz. butter, 2 oz. cooked beetroot (chopped or grated), one slice of onion. Mode : Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, stir and boil gently five minutes, then add pepper and salt, and if liked, a little chopped parsley or mixed herbs ; pour into an oval pie-dish which has been soaked in cold water, and when cold brush over with egg, roll in bread- crumbs, and fry a nice brown. Serve with gravy. Savoury Steak.--Take a piece of beefsteak, about an inch thick. Sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, and season highly with pepper and salt. Roll the steak up neatly, and tie it with string. Roast it in a saucepan in the following manner: Place sufficient dripping in the saucepan to* cover the bottom when it is melted ; put in the steak, cover with the lid, and baste from time to time in the ordinary way. Turn the steak over, so that it does not burn at the bottom. The same time must be allowed as for roasting in the oven. Serve with rich brown gravy, and garnish with Indian pickle or walnuts. Any joint may be roasted in this way. It is a great convenience to do this sometimes if the oven should be out of order or needed for other things. Rizine Cutlets.—Ingredients: 3 oz. Rizine, three-quarters of a pint stock, one onion, half teaspoonful of sage, 2 eggs, bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. If preferred, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, half teaspoonful dried sweet herbs, and one small tomato (chopped tine) may be substituted for the sage and onion. Mode: Boil the Rizine in the stock, add the onion (chopped very fine), sage (or other herbs), and a well-beaten egg. When cold, shape into a cutlet, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden brown. Serve on paper, the cutlets overlapping each other in a circle with parsley in the centre. Savoury Rice.—Boil some rice till soft, then let the water evaporate till the rice is nearly dry ; stir in a lump of butter, some grated Parmesan cheese, a little tomato sauce, pepper and' salt; when well mixed, turn it on to a very hot dish and serve at once. Rizine Kedgeree.—A Breakfast Dish. Ingredients: A lb. of cold fish or dried haddock, } lb. Rizine, 2 eggs (hard boiled), 1 oz. butter, pepper and salt. Mode : Boil the Rizine in water, add the butter, whites of eggs (chopped fine), fish (freed from bones), salt and pepper. Mix well together, and when hot make into a dome shape on a dish, and sprinkle with yolks of eggs. ■Garnish with parsley. Rizine Savoury.—Ingredients : 2 oz. Rizine, 3 oz. grated cheese, one tomato, 1 oz. butter, pepper, quarter of a pint of milk, and bread. Mode : Boil the Rizine in milk, add the grated cheese, butter, tomato (chopped fine), and pepper. Cut into rounds some thin slices of bread and fry them in hot fat, pile on the mixture, grate a little cheese over each and serve hot.550 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Yorkshire Pudding.—Ingredients: 3 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. flour, 2 eggs, one pint milk, salt. Mode: Soak the Rizine in milk for ten minutes, add eggs (well beaten), flour and salt, beat well together, pour into a greased tin, put small pieces of dripping on the top and bake three-quarters of an hour. If a joint is cooking at the same time, place the-pudding under it for ten minutes before serving. Rizine and Cheese Pudding.—-Ingredients: Three table- spoonfuls Rizine, 11 oz. cheese, one pint milk, A oz. butter, one egg. Mode : Soak the Rizine in the milk, beat up the egg, grate the cheese, and add both to the soaked Rizine. Mix together and pour into a greased dish. Bake half hour. Cost, 5d. Curried Prawns.—Fifty prawns, one small onion sliced, 1 oz. flour, 3 oz. butter, juice of half lemon, half-pint of milk, one dessertspoonful of currie powder. Skin the prawns and wash them well, then fry the onion with the butter, mix the flour and milk, and let it boil for ten minutes ; then add lemon juice and prawns. Allow five minutes for them to be hot, and serve with some boiled rice. Cheese Tartlets.—Butter some small patty pans, line them with some trimmings of puff paste, beat up two yolks of eggs, mix with J- lb. of grated Parmesan cheese, a little “ Oriental salt,” or a little salt or cayenne pepper ; put a dessertspoonful in each patty pan, and bake in a quick oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Superior Welsh Rarebit.—Beat up 2 eggs, mix them with i lb. of grated cheese, 2 oz. of oiled butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of fresh bread-crumbs, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, a dash of cayenne and salt to taste. Work the mixture well, spread on to buttered toast, put it in a hot oven just long enough to melt the cheese, and serve. Wine Biscuits.—Five oz. sifted flour, 3 oz. of grated Par- mesan cheese, 1 oz. of butter, one egg; flavour with Searcy’s Oriental salt (a preparation of red chillis). Mix it with a little water into a smooth but firm paste, roll out thin, cut or stamp out some lozenges with a round fancy cutter about the size of a penny-piece ; put them on a baking sheet, and bake from ten to fifteen minutes. Oriental Savoury of Beetroot.—Cut a cooked beetroot into round slices about the thickness of a penny-piece; stamp out with a fancy cutter, dust with cayenne pepper; put a layer of shredded anchovy fillets on each piece, prepare a mixture of a teaspoonful of capers, one gherkin, and two chives, all chopped finely and mixed with a few drops of vinegar and a little anchovy paste. Spread a little of the mixture over each round, put a slice of hard-boiled egg on the top, and sprinkle with Searcy’s Oriental salt. reroutes of Caviare.—Cut some slices of bread about half L-PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 551 an inch thick, stamp ont some rounds one inch in diameter, cut out the centre with a smaller cutter; fry in clarified butter a nice light brown, drain on a cloth, fill up the centre of each with Seun’s Hygienic Caviare, previously flavoured with a little chopped shallots, squeeze of lemon, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Pass them in the oven for a few minutes, and serve hot. Crofites of Cod’s Hoe.—Toast some slices of bread about half an inch thick, stamp out some fancy round shapes, spread with butter, sprinkle with Oriental salt, put a layer of Senn’s Cod Roe Paste on top, dust with grated Parmesan cheese, hold under a red-hot salamander till brown, and serve. Croutes of Lobster a la Tartare.—Prepare some round pieces of bread about half an inch thick, and one inch wide, stamp out the centre with a small plain cutter, fry in clarified butter, and drain. When cold put a little small cress in the bottom of each, fill up with Senn’s Lobster Pate; on the top place a thin slice of hard-boiled egg, put some more lobster pate to form the shape of a pyramid. Mask each croutewith a spoon- ful of stiff Tartare sauce just before sending to table, and garnish with stoned Spanish olives and parsley. Lobster Hamakins.—Pound some lobster meat in a mortar, add sufficient cream to work into a smooth paste, flavour with a little anchovy sauce and Oriental salt. Pass through a sieve, beat up with a little more cream (clotted). Fill the mixture in little French china ramaquin cases, sprinkle with lobster coral over the top, and serve. Croutes of Prawn a la Tartare.—Proceed the same as for “ Lobster la tartare,” only substitute Senn’s Prawn Pate for lobster. Croutes of Sardine a, la Tartare.—Proceed the same as for ‘‘Lobster A. la tartare,”only substitute Senn’s Sardine bate for lobster. Crofftes of Salmon a la Tartare.—Proceed the same as the preceding receipt, only substitute Senn’s Salmon Pflte for sardine. Crofitons of Ham.—Have ready some finely chopped ham, put in a saucepan with a pat of fresh butter, some chopped parsley and chives, the yolk of an egg; season to taste with Searcy’s Oriental Salt, or a little cayenne pepper ; stir over the fire until warm, put it on toasted bread croutons in a pyramidal form, pass in the hot oven for a few minutes, and serve hot. SWEET DISHES. Blancmange.—Mix gradually 2 pints milk with 3| oz. com flour. Put it into a stewpan, and bring it to the boil,” stirring. Add a pinch of salt, and 2 oz. of sugar; flavour with two or three drops of vanilla, lemon, or orange essence. Rinse a mould in552 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY cold water, pour in the mixture. When cold, turn out and serve with stewed fruit or fruit pies. Fruit Pudding.—Prepare a mixture as for blancmange. After boiling eight minutes, pour one-half of the pudding into a greased pie-dish. Strew about two pounds of gooseberries, cun-ants,plums, cherries, rhubarb, or other fruit, upon this. Then pour the remainder of the pudding all over the fruit. Bake the pudding an hour and a quarter. Peeled apples or pears maybe used for the same purpose. Apricot Pudding.—Take 3 oz. corn flour, 3 eggs, 5 oz. sifted sugar, 2 pints milk, and 1 tin of preserved apricots (01- other fruit). Mix the milk gradually into the corn flour, and put to the side. Beat up the yolks of the eggs well with 3| ozs. of the sugar, and add'to the corn flour. Pour the whole into a goblet, and boil for eight minutes, stirring gently. Then pour it into a pie-dish, and bake in the oven till somewhat firm. Pour over it a layer of apricots (the juice of which may be mixed with the corn flour when boiling). Beat the whites of the eggs with 1 i oz. of the sugar to a stiff snow. Spread this over the top, and return to the oven to brown. Orange Pudding.—Prepare as for blancmange. After boil- ing eight minutes aliow it to cool. Slice two oranges, beat up two eggs with 3 oz. of sugar ; stir this well into the corn flour: fill a buttered pie-dish with the mixture and alternate slices of oranges ; bake for half an hour in an oven. Sultana Pudding.—Prepare same as for blanc-mange. After boiling eight minutes stir in sultana raisins at discretion; put into a pie-dish and bake till brown. For a finer pudding eggs may be added. Souffle Pudding.—Measure out 2^ oz. corn flour, 2^ oz. pounded sugar, 2 oz. fresh butter, 3 eggs, and 1 pint milk. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and beat up the yolks with the sugar till thick and foaming. Slake the corn flour in a little of the milk, and pour into a saucepan with the rest of the milk. Add the butter, a pinch of salt, and a flavour- ing of 2 or 3 drops of essence of vanilla or almond, &c. Bring to the boil, stirring well, and boil for three or four minutes. Work in vigorously the yolks of the eggs (beat up with the sugar), and stir till thoroughly mixed. Then mix lightly the firm snow of the whites into the batter, and pour the batter into a slightly-buttered pie-dish. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour, sugar over the top, and serve at once with a sweet sauce to taste. Cocoanut Pudding.—Grated fresh cocoanut to the amount of | lb., J lb. of sugar, 3^ lbs. of good butter, the whites of 1 eggs, half a glassful of sherry or brandy, and a teaspoonful of orange-water. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, pour in the mix- ture, and bake in a cool oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot.5 5 3 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES Baked Pudding.—Prepare a mixture as for blancmange. After boiling eight minutes, allow it to cool. Beat up two eggs with 3 oz. sugar. Stir this well into the corn hour. Bake for half an hour in an oven, or brown before the tire. Bird-nest Pudding.—Bake in a well-greased plain border mould the same mixture as for Vanilla Baskets (page 556), then turn out carefully, spread over apricot jam, sprinkle the cake well with linely shredded or chopped pistachio kernels, then take the shell off the eggs and put in the centre ; serve with a nicely flavoured custard. Prepare the eggs as follows : One pint of milk, 3 oz. Riziue, sugar, and flavouring. Mode: Boil Rizine in the milk until it is quite smooth, then add sugar, and flavouring; have the empty shells of eight to ten small eggs or egg cups rinsed well out with cold water, pour in the mixture and put in a cold place until firm. Devonshire Pudding.—Ingredients : lb. Rizine, 1£ pint milk, 1 egg, 2 oz. sugar, J lb. apples, 3 cloves. Mode: Boil the Rizine in the milk a few minutes, peel, halve, and core apples and place them in a pie dish, mix the egg and sugar with the cooked Rizine, pour over the apples, and bake until the apples are soft. Sprinkle with castor sugar and serve. It may also be steamed. The King of Puddings.—Ingredients: 1J pint of milk, 4 yolks of eggs, £ pint cream, | oz. gelatine, 3 oz. Rizine, sugar, and flavouring to taste, 1 teacupful of dried fruit cut in small squares, such as dried cherries, citron, sultanas, and pistachio kernels. Mode : Cook Rizine in milk 5 to 7 minutes, then add yolks of eggs beaten up with sugar flavouring and a little cold milk, let mixture thicken, then pour into a basin, stir occasion- ally, and when cold, add the gelatine dissolved, the fruit, and cream whipped to a stiff froth. When on point of setting, pour into a crown, mould; when firm, turn out and garnish with chopped jelly. Oranges a la Portugaise.— Select eight even-sized smooth oranges ; cut an inch-wide round hole on the stem side, take the pulp out with the small end of a teaspoon, and steep the skins in cold water; drain, and scrape the inside smoothly without injuring the peel; cut small and steep in maraschino liqueur, some candied fruits, such as citron and orange peel, angelica and raisins; mix these with sufficient orange ice; fill the oranges, cover with the small piece taken out, put in a sorbetiere (freezer), surround and cover with salted ice for at least two hours before serving ; remove the cover carefully, take the oranges out, range them whole on a folded napkin, and serve. Bizine Cocoanut Pudding.—-Ingredients: A lb. Rizine, 2 oz. desiccated cocoanut, 1 oz. butter, 1^ oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, 1 pint milk. Mode: Boil the Rizine and cocoanut in the milk, cream the sugar with butter, and the yolks of eggs, one al a time, then mix with the Rizine and cocoanut; line the edge ofPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 554 a, pie-dish with, pastry, put in the mixture and bake half an hour. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and place lightly over the pudding. Sprinkle with castor sugar and return to the oven to set. Mock Eggs—Ingredients : 4 oz. Rizine, 2 oz. sugar, about 1 pint milk, preserved apricots. Mode: Roil the Rizine in the milk with the sugar, and when done spread in a layer about one-third of an inch thick to cool; when cool, cut in rounds with a pastry cutter, and place the half of an apricot on each, with cut side down. Serve in glass dish with apricot syrup. Rizine Dough Nuts.—Ingredients : 3 oz. Rizine, A lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful Raking Powder, 1 egg, ■§ pint milk, jam. Mode: P>oil the Rizine in the milk, rub butter in flour, put the cooked Rizine into the flour, add sugar, baking powder, and egg (well beaten). Make a stiff dough, roll out thinly on a floured board, cut in rounds, put a little jam in half the rounds, wet the edges, and cover with the remaining rounds. Pry in hot fat a golden brown. Serve hot or cold. Sprinkle with castor sugar. Nursery Puddings.—Ingredients : 3 slices of bread or cake, 4 sticks of rhubarb, ] lb. sugar, 4 oz. Rizine, H pint milk. Mode : Cut the bread and rhubarb in 3-inch strips, cook rhubarb until ten- der with sugar and a little water, put a layer of bread at bottom of glass dish, then a layer of rhubarb, and so on until the dish is full; boil Rizine and milk until smooth, about five minutes. Sweeten and flavour to taste, then pour over the fruit and bread. Serve hot or cold. American Pudding.—Ingredients : ) lb. Rizine, 1 oz. bread- crumbs, 2 oz. suet, 6 oz. treacle, J teaspoonful of ground ginger, 1 egg, about j pint milk. Mode: Soak the Rizine in the milk for ten minutes, chop suet fine, beat up the egg, and-mix all the in- gredients well together. Put the mixture into a greased basin and steam for two hours. Serve with sweet white sauce. Spanish Pudding.—Ingredients: j- lb. Rizine, 2 oz. bread- crumbs, 2 oz. sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls marmalade, 2 eggs, 2 oz. suet, one lemon, f pint milk. Mode: Soak Rizine in milk for ten minutes, add eggs (well beaten), the grated rind and juice of lemon, sugar, marmalade, and suet chopped fine ; deco- rate a greased mould] with dried cherries or raisins, cut in half, pour in the mixture, and cover with a greased paper. Steam for 1,( hour. Serve with sweet sauce, or custard. Beignets Souffles.—Take a large cup of water and 1 oz. of butter, boil, and add one large cup of flour, stirring well until it leaves the side of the saucepan, and add one by one four or five eggs, until the dough is perfectly smooth and firm ; fill a baking sheet by dropping pieces from a tablespoon. Bake a quarter of an hour, open the pieces wfyll a knife, and fill in with compote or custard.,555 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES Eizine Creams.—Ingredients: 3 oz. Rizine, 5- pint cream, l j oz. castor sugar, | pint milk, and 10 drops of flavour- ing. Mode : Boil the Rizine in the milk till softened, let it cool, whip the cream to a stiff froth, add to it the sugar and flavouring, mix in the Rizine, fill ramakin cases (heaped up) with the mixture. Serve cold, with coloured sugar and finely chopped pistachios sprinkled over. Rizine Pancakes.—Ingredients: 3 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. flour, A pint milk, 2 eggs, lemon and sugar. Mode: Soak the Rizine in the milk, add the flour slowly, beat up eggs, and add separately and mix well together. Put a small piece of lard or butter into a frying pan, and when hot pour in a portion of the mixture and fry. Roll up each pancake as it is fried, serve at once with castor sugar and lemon juice. Apple Snowballs.—Ingredients : Eight small apples, J lb. Rizine, sugar, and cloves. Mode : Soak the Rizine in water 20 minutes, then drain off water, peel the apples, take out the core, .and fill cavity with sugar and a clove ; cover each apple §• inch thick with Rizine, and tie each ball up in a small floured cloth ; put the balls into boiling water, and keep boiling until apples are soft, 20 to 30 minutes. Serve with custard. Rizine Trifle.—Ingredients : 1£ oz. of Rizine, 1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 oz. castor sugar, 6 drops flavouring, jam, or stewed fruit. Mode : Boil the Rizine in milk, and when •done add the sugar, yolks of eggs (well beaten), and flavouring. The heat of mixture will be sufficient to cook the yolks of eggs— pour slotchj into a glass dish, spread over it a layer of jam or stewed fruit—whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add a little castor sugar, and lightly place it on the jam or fruit—then place in the oven to set. This can be decorated with a little coloured dried fruit, cut fine. Rhubarb Sponge Pudding.—Fill a deep pie-dish with alter- nate layers of rhubarb, sweetened and seasoned with nutmeg, and slices of stale sponge-cake. Bake twenty minutes. Whisk the whites of three eggs thoroughly, add three tablespoonfuls of sifted white sugar ; spread this evenly over the top. Return to the oven for fifteen minutes to brown. Picnic Cakes. —Ingredients : Three eggs, their weight in Rizine and castor sugar, butter and flour, 1 teaspoonful of Rizine baking powder, a pint milk. Mode: Soak Rizine in milk ten minutes, put the butter and sugar in a warm basin and stir five minutes, then add one egg and half the flour, then .another egg and remainder of flour. By degrees add the Rizine and the other egg; when well mixed add .baking powder and flavouring. Have two baking tins, of same size, lined with greased paper, spread on the mixture, bake about ten minutes, turn on to a sugared paper, spread jam on one of the cakes, press the other cake on top, cut in fancy shapes.PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 556 Corn Flour Cake. (From the “Handbook” of the National Training School for Cookery).—Ingredients for a cake of about three-quarters of a pound weight: 4 oz. corn flour, 3 oz. loaf sugar, 2 eggs, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Time required, about an hour. Put the butter into a basin and beat to a cream; add the sugar (first pounded), and mix well. Break in the eggs, and beat all well together. Now stir the corn flour and the baking powder lightly into the mixture, and beat all well together for five minutes. Grease a cake tin inside with butter or dripping; pour the mixture into the tin, and put it immediately into a quick oven to bake for half an hour. Then turn the cake out of the tin, and slant it against a plate till it is- cold (this will prevent it getting heavy). If preferred, the mix- ture could be baked in small tins instead of one large one, in which case it would only take fifteen minutes to bake. Rizine Divine.—Ingredients: \\ pint milk, 1 oz. butter,, three eggs, 4 oz. rizine, apricot jam, 4 oz.. castor sugar for meringue. Mode : Boil Rizine in the milk five minutes, then add butter, yolk of eggs, sugar, and flavouring to taste, let it thicken, then pile on to a round of bread or short paste that has been baked ; make a hollow place in centre and fill with apricot jam ; whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the castor sugar, then completely cover the sweet, decorate with fancy fruits, place in moderate oven ten minutes for eggs to set. Surprise Cutlets.—ingredients : 1 pint of milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 ozs. sugar, two yolks of eggs, flavouring. Mode: Boil Rizine in milk until it forms a stiff paste, then stir in the sugar, yolks of eggs, and flavouring; spread mixture on a dish. When cold cut into cutlets, put in the thin end of each a piece of macaroni to- represent the cutlet bone, then dip each cutlet in egg, roll in bread crumbs, put in the hot fat and fry; when a nice brown drain on paper, arrange in a circle, and pour over some apricot jam rubbed through a sieve, and boiled for five minutes with a wine-glass of water and 2 oz. of sugar. Vanilla Baskets.—Ingredients : 4 oz. sugar, 4 oz. butter, ^ pint milk, 4 oz. rizine, 10 oz. flour, two eggs, vanilla, 1 tea- spoonful baking powder. Mode: Well grease some basket moulds and sprinkle with flour, soak Rizine ten minutes in milk, stir butter and sugar together five minutes, then add one egg and part of flour, then the other egg and remainder of flour, by degrees.a<M Rizine and vanilla flavouring; when well mixed, sprinkle in the baking powder, three parts fill the moulds with mixture, bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven, then turn on to a sieve, spread over some apricot jam, roll in desiccated cocoanut, scoop out centre and fill with cream, make a handle across top with a strip of angelica. Sponge Cake.—Ingredients : 8 oz. corn flour, 8 oz. powdered sugar, 6 eggs, and a flavouring of grated lemon-peel, chippedPRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECirES 557 cocoanut or ground bitter almonds. Stir the sugar with the yolks of the six eggs and the flavouring till thick and foaming. Add the corn flour gradually, stirring well till thoroughly mixed. Then stir in lightly the firm snow of the whisked whites Of the six eggs. Pour into a buttered mould three parts full and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Lemon Sponge.— Take H oz. corn flour, 3 oz. sugar, ^ az. butter, 2 eggs, 1 lemon, and 1| pint of milk. Mix the milk gradually with the corn flour, pour into a stewpan and bring to the boil, stirring. Beat up the eggs with the sugar, the butter, and the juice and grated rind of the lemon till into a thick cream. Then porn- this into the corn flour. Boil the whole for eight minutes, stirring well, and pouring into a shape rinsed with cold • water. When cold, turn out and serve with cream. Ice Cream.—Mix 1 pint milk gradually with 1 oz. corn flour, and pour into a stewpan. Beat up the yolks of 2 eggs with 4 oz. sugar. Pour this into the corn flour, and bring the whole to the boil, stirring. Boil for two or three minutes, stirring gently, and then allow to cool. When cool, stir in the whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff snow, and one pint of whipped cream. Flavour with lemon, vanilla, or pineapple, &c., and freeze. Eizine Bread.—Take 6 lbs. flour, place in earthenware pan. Mix 2 oz. French or German yeast in 1£ pint of lukewarm water, with sufficient flour to make a thin batter. This should then be poured into a hollow made in the centre of the flour, and allowed to stand in a warm place for an hour and a half. Now prepare the Eizine as follows : Take 1 lb. Eizine, and over it pour a quart of hot water, allow to stand until cool, then add half-pint of luke- warm water and 1 oz. of salt. Mix the prepared Eizine with the yeast and flour into a stiff dough, let it rise before the fire for about an hour, then place in tins, and allow to further rise for thirty minutes. Bake at once in moderate oven. Sufficient to make six loaves. Queen’s Bread.—Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, J Eizine, 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful Eizine Baking Powder, 1 oz. butter, 1 egg, 1 oz. sugar. Mode: Soak Eizine in milk ten minutes, rub butter into flour, stir in sugar, baking powder, sultanas, and a pinch of salt, and mix to a light dough with Eizine and milk, divide in three parts, roll each piece to size of a small plate, brush over with egg, cut in four, place on greased tin, and bake twelve to fifteen minutes. Economical Puff Paste (easily made).—Ingredients: 12 oz. flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, 6 oz. butter or lard, cut in inch squares. Mode: Mix a pinch of salt with flour and butter, add water to make a firm paste, roll out one-third of an inch thick, sprinkle over half the baking powder, fold in three, turn pastry round, the rough edge towards you ; roll out again, sprinkle over remainder of baking powder, fold in three, turnPRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 558 pastry round, and roll out, again fold in three. The paste is then ready for fruit tarts, meat pies, sausage rolls, puffs, Ac. Caramel Pudding. — Ingredients: 1 pint milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 eggs, a few currants, J lb. castor sugar, for caramel. Mode : Stir the castor sugar in an iron saucepan until it is the colour and consistency of treacle, then pour into a dry mould, turn the mould round and round until it gets completely lined with the caramel, put Rizine and milk in a saucepan and boil five minutes, then add the eggs well beaten, sugar, and flavouring to taste ; pour mixture into the mould, cover with a piece of greased paper, and steam until firm (about thirty minutes), then turn carefully on to a hot dish. No sauce is re- quired, for the caramel in cooking becomes a liquid. Denmark Pudding.—Ingredients: ^ lb. sago, 1^ pint milk, 1 egg, 2 oz. sugar, f lb. apples, 2 cloves. Mode: Boil the sago in the milk a few minutes, peel, and mince apples, and place them in a pie-dish, mix the egg and sugar with the cooked sago, pour over the apples, and bake till the apples are soft. Sprinkle with castor sugar and fine cinnamon, and serve. It may also be steamed. Moka Corn Flour Cake.—Ingredients : 4 eggs, 4 oz. of castor sugar, 4 oz. corn flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Grease a round shallow cake-tin with clarified butter. Separate 'the whites from the yolks of the four eggs, add the castor sugar to the yolks, and beat them well together for ten minutes. Mix the baking powder with the flour, and stir in gradually to the sugar and yolks. Add a pinch of salt or castor sugar to the whites of the eggs, and whip to a stiff froth ; then stir in lightly to the mixture, pour into cake-tiD, and bake in a quick oven for twenty-five minutes. When done, turn it out on to a wire sieve, or rear it up, so as to allow the steam to escape, to prevent it from getting heavy. When thoroughly cold, ice, and decorate as follows: Ingredients for icing: 1 lb. icing sugar, i lb. fresh butter, 1 tablespoonful essence of coffee. If the icing sugar is lumpy, pound it in a mortar, then rub it through a wire sieve. Put the butter into a basin, and work it with a wooden spoon for a few minutes. Add to it, a little at a time, the icing sugar, and beat to a smooth cream, then stir in gradually the coffee essence. When the cake is ready to ice, cut the top of it quite even, and coat it round the sides with the icing mixture with a palette knife, occasionally dipping the knife into hot water so as to make the surface smooth; then ice the top of the cake in the same manner. Put the remainder of the icing into a forcing-bag, with a rose forcer, and decorate according to taste. This is a very delicious cake to serve with coffee, much used in Paris. Rizine Pudding (plain boiled).—Ingredients: ^ lb. Rizine Mode: Tie the Rizine in a pudding-cloth, allowingPRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 559 room for swelling, and put into a saucepan of cold water ; boil gently for twenty minutes, and if, after a time, the cloth seem3 too loose, take out pudding and tighten doth. Serve with sweet melted butter, cold butter and sugar, stewed fruit, jam or marmalade, any of which accompaniments are suitable. Plain Rizine Pudding (baked).—Ingredients: 3 to 4 oz. Rizine to pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the rind of a lemon rubbed on a lump of sugar; stir the whole well together, and bake half an hour. Baked Rizine Pudding (another way).—Ingredients : Three tablespoonfuls Rizine, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 pint milk, 1 egg, ^ oz. butter, dust of nutmeg. Mode : Grease a pint dish with a" portion of the butter, put in the Rizine and sugar, beat up the egg„add it to the milk, pour over the Rizine and sugar, stir, put remainder of butter on top, dust over the nutmeg, bake half an hour in a moderately slow oven. Rizine Pudding (boiled).—Ingredients : 3£ oz. Flake Rizine, 1 pint milk. Mode: Place the Rizine and milk in a saucepan, and bring gently to the boil. Serve up with sugar and butter, jam, stewed fruit, marmalade, or any accompaniment used with plain boiled rice. Balmoral Pudding.—Ingredients: 3 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. sugar, 3 oz. sultanas and peel, £ pint milk, 2 eggs, vanilla. Mode: Mix dry ingredients together, put 2 oz. sugar in a saucepan, shake it over the fire until it is a dark-brown colour, take off the fire and add milk, and when milk is the colour of coffee strain into the dry ingredients and let them soak ten minutes ; then add eggs (well beaten) and flavouring, pour into a well-buttered mould, cover with a greased paper and steam until firm. Serve with custard. Children’s Trifle.—Ingredients: 1 quart milk, 2 eggs, \ lb. castor sugar, j- lb. Rizine, 1 oz. butter, jam, or tinned fruit. Mode: Put the Rizine into a saucepan with 1 pints of milk and the butter, boil gently five minutes, then sweeten and flavour to taste ; pour into saucers half an inch thick, whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar and flavouring, put remainder of milk into saucepan; when boiling drop the whites of eggs in spoonfuls and poach one minute; then take cup, add the yolks to milk, stir over fire a few seconds. Whert cold turn the Rizine into a glass dish with fruit or jam between the layers, pour over the custard, and place the white of eggs on the top, decorate surface with dried cherries, coloured sugar, or a few almonds cut in strips. Chocolate Jelly.—Take 3 oz. corn flour, 2 oz. cocoa, (i oz. sugar, 2 pints water, and a little vanilla. Slake the corn flour, cocoa and vanilla with a little of the water, and pour into a saucepan with the rest of the water. Place on the fire, add the sugar, and bring to the boil. Boil for eight minutes,PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 560 stirring well, and pour into a shape rinsed with cold water. Serve with whipped cream or milk. Coffee Jelly.— Boil 4 oz. of coffee in 1A pint of water ; after straining add 3 oz. sugar and £ pint previously- boiled cream. When the mixture boils, add to it 3A oz. corn flour slaked in A pint of cream. Boil eight minutes, stirring well, and pour into a mould rinsed with cold water. Two tablespoonfuls of “ Optimus Coffee Extract” and 1£ pint of boiling water will advantageously replace fresh- made coffee for this dish. Jelly for Invalids.—Mix in a tumbler a teaspoonful of corn flour with a little cold water. Pour upon it sufficient boiling water to form a clear jelly, stirring it well during the time the water is being poured on it. Then add a glass of sherry, and a little sugar if desired. Palace Blanc-Mange.—Ingredients : 1 quart milk, 6 oz. Rizine, 3 oz. sugar. Mode: Boil Rizine and milk until quite smooth, then add sugar and flavouring to taste, and a few drops of cochineal to make a pale pink colour. When a little cool pour into a china mould which has been rinsed in cold water; when firm, turn out. Serve with stewed fruits. Fruit Jelly for Invalids.—Mix 3-| oz. corn flour with a very little water, and pour into a saucepan with two pints fruit juice (with or without the addition of water, according to the strength of the juice). Add the grated rind and the juice of a lemon. Ering to the boil and boil eight minutes, stirring well. Pour into a mould rinsed with cold water. When cold, turn out and serve with fruit compote. Fruit Pie.—Bake or stew the fruit with sugar, and put it into a pie-dish. Pour over it hot corn flour, as prepared for blanc-mange. Then brown it before the fire. This makes a covering lighter and more delicious than pie-crust. Felixstowe Tart.—Mix 4 oz. of corn flour with 4 oz. of common flour, a small teaspoonful of baking powder, and a tablespoonful of powdered white sugar. Now rub in 3 oz. of butter or lard ; beat up the yolk of an egg with quarter-pint of milk, and stir it in. Knead the mass up into a light dough ; roll it out to a round piece, and fit it on a well-greased dinner plate or round dish. Roll up about an inch all round the edge of the paste, and crimp it with finger and thumb. Bake in a hot oven till of a golden colour. Then nearly fUl it with stewed fruit or jam, and pour over it the white of an egg beat up to a stiff snow with two tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar. Put the whole into a moderately heated oven or before the fire, till it has set and become of a golden colour. Rizine Midgets.—Ingredients: 2 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. sugar, 1 egg, A oz. butter, raisins, A pint milk, G drops of flavouring essence. Mode : Soak the Rizine for ten minutes, t hen add the561 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES beaten egg, sugar, and essence. Grease some small custard moulds with the butter, decorate them with the raisins (stoned and cut in halves), the cut side against the mould. Fill moulds with mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam for fifteen minutes. Turn out on a dish and pour a custard round them. Rizine Bars.—Ingredients: 2 oz. Rizine, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. marmalade, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, a little grated rind and juice of lemon, two eggs, and three-quarters pint of milk. Mode: Soak the Rizine for five minutes in the milk, put it on to boil, and when cooked add the sugar, marmalade, one well-beaten egg, 1 oz. bread-crumbs, and lemon. Mix all together, and when cool shape into bars about 1) inch wide, inch thick, and about 4 inches long. Dip these into the remaining egg (beaten), roll them in the bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden brown. Serve hot or cold, piling the bars on a dish across each other. Sweet Cassolettes of Rizine.—Ingredients: ^ lb. Rizine, i oz. butter, 1 pint milk, 2 oz. castor sugar. Mode: Soak the Rizine for ten minutes, put it on to boil, and cook with butter and sugar added for five minutes. When sufficiently cooked turn out on a dish or flat tin in a layer about an inch thick, and when cold cut in rounds about 2 inches in diameter; take out the centres with the handle of spoon, fill in with any kind of preserve, and sprinkle with a, little desiccated cocoanut. Swiss Roll.—If you follow this recipe you will have no difficulty in making Swiss roll. Mix together a teacupful of Eureka flour, half-teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and a teacupful of castor sugar. Make into a light batter with two eggs which have been previously beaten. Pour into a well- greased Yorkshire pudding tin, and bake in a very quick oven for about ten minutes. Turn out on sheet of paper, spread with jam, and roll. Economical Custard.—Ingredients: 1 quart milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 eggs. Mode: Boil Rizine and milk five minutes, withdraw from fire and stir in the eggs, well beaten up with sugar, flavouring, and a little cold milk; stir until custard thickens, then pour into cups or glasses, grate over each a little nutmeg. Invalid Pudding.—Ingredients: 2 tablespoonfuls Rizine, 1 teaspoonful castor sugar, white of 1 egg, i pint milk. Mode: Boil the Rizine and milk seven minutes, whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, stir into it the sugar, then add to the cooked Rizine. Beat lightly and serve in a glass dish. Family Rizine Cake.—Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, 4 oz. Rizine, \ oz. carraway seeds or lb. currants, 1 oz. candied peel, lb. butter, 1 egg, about | pint milk, G oz. sugar, and 2 tea- spoonfuls baking powder. Mode: Soak the Rizine in the milk for half an hour. Rub the butter in the flour, add thePRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 562 carraway seeds or currants, sugar, candied peel cut in small pieces, and the baking powder. Beat the egg, and add it to the soaked Rizine. Mix with the flour, &c., into a stiff paste. Put in a greased tin, and bake about an hour and a half. Rich. Rizine Cake.—Ingredients: 1 lb. flour, 3 oz. Rizine, A lb. raisins, £ lb. sultanas, {■ lb. currants, 2 oz. candied peel, 20 drops of almond flavouring or essence, £ lb. castor sugar, 3 eggs, | lb. butter, T pint of milk, and 2 teaspoonfuls Rizine Baking Powder. Mode : Soak the Rizine in the milk for half an hour, stone the raisins, wash the currants and sultanas, cut the candied peel in small pieces. Rub lightly the butter in the flour, add the fruit, sugar, and baking powder, beat up the eggs, mix with the soaked Rizine, add it to the flour, &c., and make into a rather stiff dough. Put into a greased tin, brush the top with eggs, and sift castor sugar over. A few almonds bleached and chopped sprinkled on the top would improve the appearance. Time to bake in a moderate oven, two hours. Tea Cakes.—Ingredients: A lb. flour, , 1 dessertspoonful Rizine Baking Powder, 1 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, 1 egg, 1 cup of milk. Mode: Melt butter, mix sugar, flour, and a pinch of salt in a basin, add egg, well beaten, and milk sufficient to form a stiff batter, beat well, pour in the butter, and when well mixed sprinkle in baking powder and pour mixture in well- greased cake tins ; bake fifteen to twenty minutes. Favourite Scones.—Ingredients: l ib. flour, 1 tablespoon- ful Rizine Baking Powder, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. Rizine, 2 oz. sultanas, 1 cup of milk. Mode:' Soak Rizine ten minutes in milk, rub butter into flour, stir in sugar, baking powder, sultanas, and a pinch of salt, and mix to a light dough with Rizine and milk, divide in three parts, roll each piece to size of a small plate, brush over with egg, cut in four, place on greased tin, and bake twelve to fifteen minutes.INDEX ABE Abergavenny's, Lady, cheese, 20 Agneau entrees (lamb entrees), 183-194 Heleves, Ac. (removes, Ac.), 130-131 Rotis (roasts), 251 Aigrefin, merluche (fresh haddock), 100, 117 American pudding, recipe, 554 Anglo-Saxon customs, 10 Anguille (eel), 109 Ape, as a dish, 13 Aphorism, gastronomy iu the form of an, 52-54 Apple snowball, recip", 555 Apricot pudding, recipe, 552 Argillou, Robert, a noted cook, 3G Aristotle and the kitchen, 47 Ardchauts (artichokes), 255-257 Artichoke savoury, recipe, 547 Artichokes (artichauts), 255, 25G Jerusalem (topinambours), 282, 283 Asparagus (asperges), 257-259 Soup, recipe, 538 Asperges (asparagus), 257-259 Aubergines (egg plants), 259 Australian wines (vins d’Australie), 178 Bacon sauce, recipe, 515 Baked pudding, recipe, 553 Trout, recipe, 540 Balmoral pudding, recipe, 559 Banbury cake, 20 Barbue (brill), 111 Barley soup, recipe, 538 Bars, liizine, recipe, 5ul Baskets, vanilld, recipe, 550 Batter, frying, recipe, 544 Beans, broad (fives de marais), 203 French (haricots verts), 208 White haricot (haricots blaucs), 208 Beef and veal cutlets, baked, recipe, 518 Beef (boeuf), braised, recipe, 543 Entrees, 169-183 Olives, recipe, 543 Removes, Ac. (relevis, Ac.) 127-130 Rissoles, recipe, 548 Roasts (rotis), 251 BUR Beetroot savoury, oriental, rteipc, 550 Beiguets, Ac. (fritters, Ac.), 313, 311 Souffles, recipe, 554 Berlin steak, recipe, 543 Bern, Duchesse de, her culinary inven- tions, 17 Bills of fare, two (1692, 1782), 22. See also Menus, dinner, luncheon AND SUPPER Bird-nest pudding, recipe, 553 Biscuit, wine, recipe, 550 Biscuits, French and Swiss, 336, 337 Blancmange, recipe, 551 Palace, recipe, 560 Blancmanges (blancmangers), 316 Boar’s head, a royal dish, 15 Boeuf entrees (beef entrees), 169-183 Iteleves, Ac. (removes, Ac.), 127-130 Rotis (roasts), 251 Boiled dishes, classical quotations for, 481 Rice for curries, 544 Boiling, notes on, 71-74 Books on Cooker)’, 12, 18, 19, 21-24 Boswell, his dictum on the cook, 38 Bouchees, 137. See also Petitks BOUCHEES Boudins, Ac., 135,136 Brain, calves, cutlets, recipe. 544 Brains, mutton, recipe, 543 Braised beef, recipe, 543 Bra sing, notes on, 79, 80 Bread, fancy, recipes, 557 Breakfast, savoury dishes for, 546. See also Savoury dishes Brill (barbue), 111 Brillat-Savariu, his opinion of the cook, 45; his maxims on gastronomy, ! 54-56 Britons, ancient, customs of the, 16 Broad beans (fdves do marais), 268 Brochet (pike), 110 Broiled partridge aud pheasant, recipe, 542. Broiling, notes on, 81, 82. Brussels sprouts (choux de Bruxelles),264 Burgundy (Crus dc Burgoyne), 476 ' 3!)564 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY BUR Bart (Unmade), 116 Butter, melted, sauce, recipe, 545 Cabbages (choux), 264-26G Cabillaud (codfish), 112 Cake (savoury), ham, recipe, 546 Cake (sweet), recipes Corn flour, 556 Corn flour, Moka, 558 Rizine, 562 Sponge, 556 Cakes (gateaux), 309, 310 Picnic, recipe, 555 Tea, recipe, 562 Calves’ brain cutlets, recipe, 544 Cambaceres and the Duke of Wellington, 30 Canard (duck), entrees, 212, 213 Cauetons (ducklings), entrees, 214,215 Cannelons, 138 Capons or capon pullets (chapons), entrees, 215-217 Caramel pudding, recipe, 558 Cardons (cardoons), 259 Oarerne, Antonin, a famous chef, 487-490 Garottes (carrots), 260 Carp (earpe), 113 Carrelet (flounder), 113 Carrots (carottes), 260 Carving, notes on, 471 Cassolettes, savoury, recipe, 547 Sweet, of Rizine, recipe, 561 Cauliflower (chou-fleur), 265 Caviare, crofites of, recipe, 550 Celeri (celery), 261, 262 Celeriac (celery knobs), 266 Celery (celeri), 261, 262 Knobs (celeraic), 266 Soup, recipe, 537 Champagne, 475 Champignons (mushrooms), 262, 2G3 Chapons (capons), entrees, 215-217 Charlottes, 312 Chaucer and the kitchen, 48 Cheese (fromage) cigarettes, recipe, 547 pudding, recipe, 550 Savouries, 334 Tartlets, recipe, 550 Chefs and epicures, famous, 485-504 Oareme, Antonin, 487-490 Francatelli, Charles E., 498, 499 Johnson, Dr. Samuel, 486 Kitchiner, Dr. William, 485 Parmentier, Antonie A., 503, 504 Pouard, Eugfine, 502 Soyer, Alexis, 494-49" Suzanne, Alfred, 500, 501 Ude, Louis Eustache, 491-493 Chicken cutlets, recipe, 512 Entrees (poulet entrees), 226-237 Chicory or endive"fchioorte), 264 COO Children’s trifle, recipe, 559 Chinese, diet and customs of the, 60; description of a feast. 61 sq Chocolate jelly, recipe, 559 Choucroute (sourcrout), 264 Choux, &c. (cabbages, &c.), 264 Cigarettes, cheese, recipe, 547 Citronille (pumpkin), 266 Claret (Bordeaux), notes on, 475 Clerc, Jean, on cookery, 11 Cocoanut pudding, recipe, 552, 553 Cod, salt (morue), 118 Cutlets a la Victoria, recipe, 541 Codfish (cabillaud), 112 Cod’s roe, crofites of, recipe, 551 Coelius Apician, a Roman cook, 12 Coffee, 469 ; lines on the defeat of, ib. Coffee jelly recipe, 560 Compotes de fruits (stewed fruits), 316, 317 Concombres (cucumbers), 266, 267 Consommes (clear soups), 95-100 Cook, the derivation of and equivalents for the word, 35 ; held in high esteem by our forefathers, 35 sq ; honours and land bestowed on, 36 ; triumphs of, in ancient days, 37 ; Boswell’s dictum on, 38; influence of, on historical events, 38 sq; Reyniere on, 39 : what we owe to the cook, 40; character and duties of, 40 sq ; effects of alcohol on, 41; indispensable characteristics of,42 sq; Dionysius, Brillat-Savarin, and the Marquis de Cussy on, 45; famous authorities on, 46.; the future of, 46 sq ; the cook in proverb, 50; his ten cardinal virtues, 51 Cookery, ancient and modem, 11; the Romans and the art of, ib; an ancient sauce, 12 ; some famous Roman epicures, ib; a culinary delicacy in 1509, 13; soups of the fifteenth century, ib; ancient tribes and their tastes, ib; meals and favourite dishes of the Romans, 14 ; culinary practices among the Nor- mans, 14 sq ; customs of ancient Britons and Anglo-Saxons, 16 sq ; some famous French epicures, 17 : an eighteenth century kitchen staff, 18 sq ; books on cookery, 19,21-24 ; pro- gress of the art in various countries, 20; curious advice to ladies and children, 22 ; French and English cookery compared, 23 sqq; sumpt uous feasts of the olden times, 27 sqq ; Massinger on the extravagance of our forefathers, 28; prices in the thirteenth century, t*; an “Amble pie,” 29; the heroic days of feasting,INDEX 5(35 coo ib; the Duke of Wellington and cookery, ib ; abnormal and diseased appetites, 30sq; an old Scotch “grace,” 31 ; the tougue and the sense of taste, 32.<qq. See also, Eng- land ; Exulish cookery ; France, cookery ix ; &c. Cookery, high-class and domestic — recent progress in high-class, 65; backward state of domestic, 66 ; the advantages of efficient cookery, 67 sqq. ; notes on boiling, 71 sqq. ; roasting, 74 sqq. ; stewing, 76 sq.; frying, 77 sqq. ; braising, 79 sq.; broiling and grilling, 81 sq.; salads and salad dressing, 82 sqq. ; vocabu- lary of terms used in, 507-536 Coquilles, 137,138 “ Cordon bleu, le,” 506 “ Cordon rouge, le," 504 Cornets, &c., whipped creams for, 319 Cornflour cake, recipe, 556 Cake, Moka, recipe, 558 Orakovys, 140 Crayfish cutlets, recipe, 540 Cream, recipes, 555, 557 Creams (cremes), 316 Ices (glaces), 319-321 Whipped (crimes fouetees) for merin- gues, cornets, &c., 319 Crimes. See Creams Crepinettes, 137 Cromesquis, 139 Croquette fritters, receipe, 544 Croquettes, 139 Croustades, 136,137 Croutes of caviare, recipe, 550 Of cod’s roe, recipe, 551 Of haddock with Rizine, recipe, 551 Of lobster it la tartare, recipe, 551 Of prawns a la tartare, recipe, 551 Of salmon a la tartare, recipe, 551 Of saidine a la tartare, recipe, 551 Crofttons of ham, recipe, 551 Crus de Bordeaux, 476 Crus de Burgoyue (Burgundy), 476 Cucumbers (concombres), 266, 267 Culinary dictionary, 507-536 Telephone, 63 sq. Curried haddock, recipe, 539 Kidneys, recipe, 548 Prawns, recipe, 550 Curries, how to boil rice for, recipe, 544 Curry fish, how to, recipe, 539 Pasties, recipe, 543 Cussy, Marquis de, on the cook, 45 Custard, economical, recipe, 561 Cutlets, calves’ brain, recipe, 544 Cod i la Victoria, recipe, 541 Crayfish, recipe, 540 Mutton, witli macaroni, recipe, 543 ENT Cutlets—eon!. Salmon a la Victoria, recipe, 541 Surprise, recipe, 556 Dariol.es, 140 Denmark pudding, recipe, 558 Dessert, 335-338 Biscuits, names of Swiss and French, 336, 337 Fromages (cheeses), 338 Pieces monttes, 337 Devonshire pudding, recipe, 553 Dictionary, culinary, 507-536 Dinde (turkey), entrees 217-220 Dionysius, his lines on the cook, 45 Dish of mince, recipe, 548 Dishes. See Made ; Savoury ; Side ; and Sweet, dishes Divine, recipe, 556 Domestic cookery. See Cookery, High- class and domestic Dough nuts, recipe, 554 Duck, a Roman delicacy, 14 Entrees (canard entrees), 212, 213 Salmi of, recipe, 541 Duckling (caneton), entrees, 214, 215 Dudley, the late Earl of, his fare for an Emperor, 25 Eel (anguille), 109 Egg plants (aubergines), 259 Savouries (ceuf savoureux), 328-332 Eggs, brown fricasseed, recipe, 546 Mock, recipe, 554 Endive or chicory (cliicorie), 264 England, confections on sale in (1569). 20; her taste for French dishes in the seventeenth century, 20 ; style of laying the table in, 470 English cookery, books on, 21 sqq. ; in Queen Elizabeth’s reign, 23 ; Pope on, 24 ; Thackeray’s lines on, 25 ; comparison of French and, 26 English words used in cookery, 507-530 Entrees, 135-250 Agneau (lamb), 183-194 Boeuf (beef), 169-183 Froides (cold), 144-147 Game (gibier), 237-250 Ligires (light), 135-143 Lamb (agneau), 183-194 Mouton (mutton), 194-20C Pore (pork), 206-211 Poultry (volaille), 212-237. See also Poultry. Veau (veal), 148-168 Volaille (poultry), 212 237. See also Volaille. Entries, classical quotations for, 481 Entremets, savoureux, &e, (savoury dishes, &c.), 322-324566 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY ENT Entremets, Sic,.— coni. Pariueux et mets (farinaceous food), 332-334 Fromage (cheese), 334 (Eufs (eggs), 328-332 Omelettes. Ac. (omelets, Ac.). 327, 328 Legumes (vegetables), 325-327 Poissons, Ac. (flsli, Ac.), 322-324 Entremets de douceur (sweet dishes), 305-322 Beignets, &c. (fritters, Ac.), 313, 314 Blancmangers et crimes, 316 Charlottes, 312, 313 Compote de fruits (stewed fruits), 316, 317 Cremes fouettees( whipped creams),319 Crofites aux fruits, 315, 316 Fruits auriz, croiltes, Ac. (fruits with rice, crusts,. Ac.), 314, 315 Gateaux (cakes), 309, 310 Gelees, Ac. (jellies, Ac.), 317, 318 Glaces, crfemes (ices, creams), 319-321 Glaces de fruits (fruit water-ices), 321 322 Poudings (puddings), 305-308 Souffles et omelettes, 308, 309 Eperlans (smelt), 113 Epicures, famous chefs and. See Chefs and Epicures, eamous lipinards (spinach l, 267 Esturgeon (sturgeon), 114 Farinaceous food savouries (farineux et mets savoureux), 332-334 Peasts, sumptuous, of the olden time, 27-34 Felixtowe tart, recipe, 560 Fives de marais (broad beans), 26S Fillets of sole, recire, 540 Fish (poissons), 109-126 Brill (barbue). 111 Burt (limande), 116 Carp (carpe), 113 Codfish (cabillaud), 112 Cod, salt (morae), 118 Eel (anguille). 109 Flounder (earrelet), 113 Grayling (ombre), 118 Haddock, fresh, dried (mcrluohe aigrefin), 109-117 Herring (hareng), 114 Lamprey (lamproie), 116 Lobster (liomard), 115 Mackerel (maquereaux), 116 Mullets, red (rougets), 119 Mussels (moules). 118 Oyster (huitres). 115 Pike (brochet), 110 Plaice (plie). 118 Salmon fsaumon', 120 Savouries, 322, 323 GAK Fish (poissons)— cont. Skate (raie), 119 \ Smelt (eperlans), 113 Sole (sole), 122 Sterlet, 124 Sturgeon (esturgeon), 114 Tench (tanche). 124 Trout (tru'.te). 125 Turbot (turbot), 125 Whiting (merlan), 117 Fish recipes, 539-541 Cod cutlets fi la Victoria, 541 Crayfish cutlets; 540 Curry, bow to, 539 Haddock, crofites of, with Rizine, 511 Haddock, curried, 539 Red mullet, 540 Salmon; cutlets A la Victoria, 541 Shrimps, scalloped, 541 Sole, fillets of (Parisian style), 540 grilled, 540 Trout, baked, 540 Flounder (earrelet), 113 i Francatelli, Charles E., a famous cook, 498, 499 France, Cookery in, in 1791,18; progress of the art of cookery in. 20.23 ; Italian delicacies introduced into. 20; her cookery compared with English, 26 ; the potato in, 504 French beans (haricots verts), 268, 269 Biscuits, names of. 336, 337 Revolution, influence of, on culinary art, 17 White wines, 477 Words used in cookery, 507-536 Friandines, 140 Fricasseed egg, brown, recipe. 545 Fritters, Ac. (beignets, Ac.), 313, 314 Croquette, recipe, 544 Fromages (cheeses), 338 Savoureux.334 Fruit jellies for invalids, recipe, 560 Pie, recipe, 560 Pudding, recipe, 552 Water-ices (glaces de fruits), 321. 322 Fruits, stewed (compotes de fruits). 316, 317 With rice, crusts. Ac., (fruits au riz, crofites, Ac.), 314-316 Frying, notes on, 77-79 Batter, recipe, 544 Game entries (gibier entrees), 237 250 Four-footed, 245-250 Wild poultry (volaille sauvage), 237 244 Game removes, Ac. (gibier releves, Ae. 'i 134, 135 Game (gibier) roasts, 252 jGarum, a Roman sauce, 12INDEX 5G7 GAS Gastronomy in the form of an aphor- ism, 52-54 Gateaux (cakes), 309, 310 Uelees, Ac. (jellies, Ac.), 317, 318 German wines, note on, 477 ; list of, ib. Gibier entries (game entrees), 237-250 Qnadrupede, 245-260 Vulail e sauvage (wild poultry), 237-244 Releves, Ac. (game removes, Ac.), 134, 135 Rotis (game roasts), 252 Glaces, cremes (ices, creams), 319-321 De fruits '.trait water-ice.-), 321-322 Glasse, Mrs., on the art of boning, 72 Goose, a Roman delicacy, 14 Entries (oie entrees), 220-222 “Goose, sauce for the,” recipe for, 49 Grace, a curious Scotch, 31 Gravy soup, recipe, 539 Grayling (ombre), 118 Greek wines (vius grecs), 478 Green i auce, recipe, 54o Grilled sole, recipe, 540 Grilling, notes on, 81,82 Haddock, cro&tes of, with Rizine, recipe, 541 Curried, recipe, 439 Fresh (aigreliu, merluche), 109, 117 Ham cake recipe, 546 Crofrtons of, recipe, 551 Toast, recipe, 548 Hareug (herring), 114 Haricot beans, white (haricots blancs), 268 Haricots verts (French beans), 268, 269 Hazlitt, W. Carew, on the Roman clergy and the culinary art, 12 Henry, Duke of Brunswick (1511), originator of the menu card, 341 Herring (haieDg), 114 Hog barbecued, 20 Homard (lobster), 115 Hop sprigs (jets de houblons), 269 Hors d' ceuvres, classical quotations for, 480 Chattels (hot side-dishes), 135-143 Frotds et mets divers (prepared side- dishes, cold), 92 94 Simples (plain side-dishes), 89-91 Houblons, jets de (hop sprigs), 269 Household recipes, practical, 537-562. Huitres (oysters), 115 See, also RbClPES, PlUCUCAl.1IOCSK- HOLD. lens, creams (glaces. crimes), 319-321 Indian pillaw, 142 1 DEM Italy and the culinary art, 20 Jut.LHCS, Ac. (ge’ies, Ac.), 317, 318 Jelly, recipes, 559, 560 Chocolate, 559 Coffee, 560 Fruit, for invalids, 560 Jerusalem artichokes (topinambours), 282, 283 Jttlienue soup, recipe, 538 ; made from dried Vegetables, ib Kidxf.ys, curried, recipe, 548 King of puddings, the, recipe, 553 Kitcuen, an eighteenth century' kitcheu st iff, 18 sij ; early use of the word kitchen, 47 ; Aristotle, Spenser, Chaucer, and Shakspeareon the, 48 ; maxims for the, 58 Laitdks (lettuces), 269 Lamb entrees (agneau entrees), 183-194 Removes, Ac. tagneau releves), 13u, 131 Roasts (agneau rotis), 251 Lamprey (lamproie), 116 Lbgume savoureux (vegetable savour- ies), 325-327 Legumes (vege(ab'es), 255-284 Artichauts (artichokes), 255-257 Asperges (asparagus), 257-25J Aubergines (egg plants), 259 Cardons (cardoons), 259 Carottes (carrots), 260 Celeri (celery), 201, 262 Cepes, 262 Champignons (mushrooms), 262, 263 Chicoree (chicory or endive), 264 Choux, Ac. (cabbages, Ac.), 264,265 Counts au vinaigre, 289 Celeriac (celery knobs), 266 Coucombres (cucumbers), 266, 267 Epinurds (spinach), 267 Ffcvesde rnarais (bioad beans), 268 Haricots blancs (white haricot beans), 268 Haricot verts (French beans), 268 Jets de houblons (hop sprigs), 269 Laitues (lettuces), 269 Lentilles (lentils), 2o9 Macedoine de, 269 Navets (turnips), 2C9 Pommes de terre (potatoes), 270 280 S.dsitis (salsiiits), 280 Tomates , tomatoes), 280-282 Topinambours i Jerusalem arti- chokes), 282-283 Truffles, 283-284 Lemon sauce, recipe, 546 Sponge, recipe, 557PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 588 LEN Lenten sonp, recipe, 539 Lentils (lentilles), 269 Lettuce (laitues), 269 Limande (burt), 116 Lobster (homard), 115 A la tartare, o ro Cites of, recipe, 651 Ramakins, recipe, 551 Lytton, Earl of. See Mehedith, Owes Macauosi augratin, recipe, 547 Macedoine de legumes (mixed vege- tables), 269, 270 Mackerel (maquereaux), 116 Made dishes, recipes, 541-515 Beef, braised, 543 Beef olives, 543 , Calves’ brain cutlets, 544 Chicken-cutlets, 542 Croquette fritters, 544 lluck, salmi of, 541 Trying batter, 544 Mutton brains, with tomatoes, 543 Curried, 545 Cutlets with macaroni, 543 Partridge, broiled, 542 Pasties, curry, 543 Pheasants, jjroiled, 542 Pigeons, stewed, 542 Poultry, ragout of, 541 Rabbit pie, 542 Rabbit, stewed, with onions, 542 Rice, how to boil, for curries, 545 Steak, Berlin, 543 Maria, wife of Louis XV., and the art of cookery, 17 Marin on the science of cookery, 19 M isslnger on the extravagance of our forefathers, 28 Maxims, Brillat-Savarin’s gastronomical, 54, sq ; for the kitchen, 57 sq Mayonnaise sauce, recipe, 545 Meat pancake recipe, 546 Savouries, 322, 323 Menu, translating the, 472 Menu compiler, 87-338 Entries, agneau (lamb), 183-194 Entrees, bcenf (beef), 169-183 Entrees, froides (cold), 144-147 Entrees, gibier (game), 237-250 Entrees, leghres (light), 135-143 Entrees, mouton (mutton), 194-206 Entrees, pore (pork), 206-211 Eitrees, veau (veal), 148-168 Entries, volatile (poultry), 212-237 Entremets de douceur (sweet dishes), 305-322 Entremets savoureux, <Ssc. (savoury dishes, Ac.), 322-334 Pish (poissons), 109-126 Fruits, sour, salads (salade de fruits au viuaigre), 289 MEN Menu compiler—con/. Hors il’ceuvres (plain side-dishes), 89-91 Hors d’oeuvres chauds (hot side- dishes), 135-143 Hors d’oeuvres froids et mets divers (prepared side-dishes), 92-94 Legumes (vegetables), 255-284 Ligumes eonfits au vioaigre (vege- table pickles), 289 Poissons (fish), 109-126 Potages (soups), 95-109 Releves (removes), 126-135 Rjtis (roasts), 250-255 Salades (salads), 284-288 De fruits au vinaigre (sour fruit salads), 289 Sauces, 290-304 Savoury dishes, &c. (entremets savoureux, &c.), 322-334 Side-dishes, hot (hors d'oeuvre3 chauds), 135-143 Side-dishes, plain (hors d’oeuvres froids), 89-91 Side-dishes, prepared cold (hors d’ceuvres froids et mets divers), 92- 94 Soups (potages), 95-109 Sweet dishes (entremets de dou- ceur), 305-322 Vegetable pickles (legumes eonfits au vinaigre), 289 Vegetables (legumes), 255-284 Menus (billsof fare) and their compi'a- tion, 339 ; lines on how to prepare a menu, 340; first use of (1541), 341 ; early menu cards described, t'6; the importance of a good menu, 342- 346 ; the modern menu, 342 sq. ; directions regarding the composi- tion of, 343 sqq. ; what to avoid, 345; classical quotations for, 479-181 Menus of luncheons, dinners, and su jpers 339-468 American fish dinner, 432. American private dinners, specimens of, 391-393 American steamship, literary menu of a dinner, 420, 421 American Sunday dinner, 389 American, typical, menus, 388 Ancient menus, 453 Ball for 7,000 persons (Paris, 1823), 464, 465 Ba'l supper, 376-378, 382, 333 Banquets at fixed prices, 358 361 Baroda, Gaikwarof, English supper to, 403 Barristers' dejeuner (Marseilles), 4 49 Beanfeast dinner ^Blackpool), 449INDEX 569 MEN Menus, &c.—conl. Belgian banquet to Proeureur General Van Sclioor, 425 Belgian railways, fiftieth anniversary banquet, 424 Bicycle club dinner (Pittsburgh), 450, 451 Bismark, Prince, farewell dinner of, 432 Budapest (Holzwarth's hotel), menu du diner, 427 Buffet et souper chaud, 379-381 Cairo (Shepheard’s hotel), dinner, 427 Charles Prince de Holienlohe-Kirch- berg dinner (1771), 458 Charles X. dinner (St. Cloud, 1830), 46G Chinese bill of fare in English, 441 Christmas dinner (Washington), 395 Christmas luncheon (all dishes com- posed of pork), 433 Cold collations, 384-387 Complimentary farewell dinner to a young lady named Lilian, 450 Curious bill of fare (1751). 455, 456 Delmonico's restaurant dinner. New York, 396 Dinners at fixed prices, 36G-368 Eclectic Club, New York, dinner (1887), 390 English dinners, specimens of, 317,348 English and French dinners, specimens of, 349 Exhibition dinner (Paris, 1883), 423 Franco-German War, translation of menu served in Paris during, 453 French Christmas dinner, 422 Game banquet (Chicago), 435, 43G George III., Boyal City banquet (1761), 459 German Emperor and Empress, Eng- lish banquet to, 412 Gigantic Parisian banquet (served to over 13,000 people). 434 Gorlitz, bauquet at, 437 Grand dinner, menu of a, to 20 persons, to cost not less than £500. 41G Henri II. d’Orleans, dinner (1657), 457 Honourable Society of the Inner Tem- ple, banquet, 406 Hotel dinners and luncheons at fixed prices, 355-357 How our ancestors dined 400 years ago, 454 Humorous menus, 442 Italian menu (translated), 439 Japanese menu, 440 Jodrell, Sir Alfred, supper to (Nor- wich), 404 Johnson, Dr., club dinner, “ Old Cock Tavern,” 443 Latin menu, 441 MEN Menus, &s. — cont. Lawyer’s brief bill of fare, 442 Lenten dinners, 373, 374 London club dinners, 35 , 353 Luncheons and dinners at fixed prices, specimens of, 350-352 Luncheons and dinners, English mess catering, specimeu of, 375 Mansion House annual banquet, 409 Masonic banquet, 410-411 Military dinner, 451 Monster dinner of the SoeiAtA Culinaire Pliilanthropique, New York, 414, 415 Napoleon III., dinner to, by the Cor- poration of London (1855), 468 Old Euglish style, a bill of faie in, 455 Parliamentary dinner, 419 Political : Liberal Union Club dinner, 413 Political: St. Stephen’s Club banquet (London), 418 Prince Akihito Komatsu no Muja’s dinner (Vienna), 430 Prince George of Wales, City of London dejeuner to, 431 Prince of Wales, dinners to (Middle Temple), 402 ; (Berlin), 437 Private dinners at fixed prices,363, 3G4, 37U, 371 Public dinners at fixed prices, 365-368 Queen Victoria, the Queen-Regent of Spain’s dinner to, Villa Ayate, 428 Queen Victoria’s dinner (Windsor Cast’.e), 431 Regimental banquet (Dublin), 409 Regimental dinner at fixed price, 369 Richelieu, Marechal de, dinner (1788), 460 Roumanian menu (translated), 439 Royal Agricultural Society of England banquet (1822), 463 ; (1889), 407 Scotch Sunday dinner (Oban), 448 Service a la Fran.aise, 357 Service A la Russe, 365, 372 Shakespeare’s town, luncheon at, 441- 447 Shute, Lient.-Gen. Sir John, dinner (Dublin, 1831), 467 Society banquet (Edinburgh), 417 Su tan of Turkey, his dinner to the Emperor William at Constantinople, 428 Sunday dinner at Saratoga Springs, 394 Swedish bill of fare, 438 Swiss dialect (humorous), bill of fare in, 452 Swiss historical dinner, 432 Tabled’hOte at fixed prices, 351,363,351 Theatrical farewel. banquet to Mr. and Mrs. Kendal, 408570 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY MEN POI Menus, &c.—cont. Trails-African Railway Co. dinner, 429 Transatlantic steamship, breakfasts, luncheon and dinners, 397-101 Transvaal dejeuner diaatoire, 426 Turkish menu, 440 United Law Cleiks’ Society, 57th anni- versary festival, 405 Vegetarian dinner, 374 Volapuk, menu in, 440 Wedding breakfast (1812), 462 Wilkie, Sir Oliver, curious menu of ai dinner to (1561), 453 Williamson, Sir H., dinner (1803), 461 Mercer, his description of the cook, 35 Meredith, Owen (Lord Lyttou), his lines on cookery, 86 Meringues, &c., whipped creams for, 319 .Merlan (whiting), 117 Midgets, Rizine, recipe, 560 Milk soup, recipe, 537 Mince, dish of, recipe, 518 Mock eggs, recipe, 554 Moka corn flour cake, recipe, 558 Morue (salt cod), 118 Moules (mussels), 118 Mouton (mutton) entr6es, 194-206 Mouton (mutton) releves,&c., 131, 132 Mouton (mutton) rotis, 251 Mullets, red (rougets), 119 Mulligatawny soup, recipe, 537 Murray on the art of boiling, 72 Mushrooms (champignons), 262,263 Mussels (moules), 118 Mutton (mouton) brains, recipe, 543 Curried, recipe, 544 Mutton cutlets.with macaroni, recipe, 543 Entrees, 194-206 Removes, &c., 131, 132 Roasts, 251 Sauce for, 545 Napoleon, revival of the culinary art under, 18 Navets (turnips), 269 Nightingale, a Roman delicacy, 14 Normans, culinary practices among, 146 Northumberland, Earl of, his dinner in i 1512, 14 Nursery puddings, recipe, 554 CEufs savoureux (egg savouries), 328- ! 332 Oie entries (goose entrees), 220-222 Olives, beef, recipe, 543 Ombre (grayling), 118 Omelets, savoury (omelettes savoureux), 327, 328 Onion, brown, sauce, recipe, 545 Orange pudding, recipe, 552 Oranges a la Portugaise, recipe, 553 Orleans, Regent, his culinary inventions, 17 Oyster sauce, recipe, 545 Toast, recipe, 547 Oysters (huitres), 115 English, ancient use of, at Athens, 37 - Palace blancmange, recipe, 560 Pancake, recipes, 546, 555 Parmentier, Antoine A., his introduction of the potato into France, 503, 504 Partridge, broiled, recipe, 542 Paste patties, small puff, 141 Puff, economical recipe, 557 Pasties, curry, recipe, 543 Patisserie, Ac. (pastry, &c.), 310-312 Peas, green, 270 Petites bouchees, 141 Caisses, 141 Petits pains, 142 Pates, 141 Pheasant, a Roman dish, 14 Pheasants, broiled, recipe, 542 Pick'es, vegetable (legumes confits an vinaigre), 289 Picnic cakes, recipe, 555 Pie, fruit, recipe, 560 Rabbit, recipe, 542 Pieces montees, 337 Pigeon entrees, 222-225 Pigeons, stewed, recipe, 542 Pike (brocket), 110 Pilau, a Turkish national dish, 12 A lTndienne, 142 Pilchard, early culinary imitation of, 37 Plaice (plie), 118 Plautus, his description of the cook, 35 Plie (plaice), 118 Poissons (fish), 109-126 Aigrefin, merluche (fresh haddock), 109-117 Anguille (eel), 109 Barbue (brill), 111 Brocket (pike), 110 Cabillaud (codfish), 112 Carpe (carp), 113 Carrelet (flounders), 113 Eperlans (smelt), 113 Esturgeon (sturgeon), 114 Hareng (herring), 114 Homard (lobster), 115 Huitres (oysters), 115 Lamproie (lamprey), 116 Limande (burt), 116 Maquereaux (mackerel), 116 Merlan (whiting), 117 Morue (salt cod), 1 IS Moules (mussels), US. Ombre (grayling), 118INDEX 571 roi RIZ Poissons (fish)—cont. Plie (plaice), 118 Raie (skate), 119 Rougets (red mullets), 119 Saumon (salmon), 120 Savoureur, 322, 323 Sole (sole), 122 Sterlet, 124 Tanche (tench), 124 Truite (trout), 125 Turbot (turbot), 125 Pommes de terre (potatoes), 270-280 Pompadour, Marquise de,'and the art of cookery,17 Pope on English ccokery, 24 Pore entrees (pork entries), 211 Releves, &c. (pork removes, &■<'■), 132 I ltotis (pork roasts), 251 Pork. See Porc Porpoise, Wolsey’s piece de resistance j (1509), 13 Porpoi, as an edible, 14 Portugal dishes, 20 Potages (soups), 85-109 Cousommes (clear), 95-100 Puree et potages lies (thick), 100-109 Potato in Prance, 504 Salad, recipe, 548 Soup, Parmentier’s recipe for, 504 Potatoes (pommes de terre), 270-280 Poudings (puddings), doux, 305-308 Poolet (chicken entrees), 228-237 Poultry (volaille), ragoftt of, recipe, 541 Capons or capon pullets (cliapons), 215-217 Chickens (ponlets), 22G-237 Ducklings (canetons), 214, 215 Ducks (canards), 212, 213 Geese (oies), 220-222 Entrees, 212-237 Pigeons, 222-225 Removes, &c. (relevds, &c.), 134 Roasts (volaille rOtis), 252 Turkey (dindes), 217-220 Wild (volaille sanvage), 237-24G Prawn 5 la tar tare, croQtes of, recipe, 551 Prawns, curried, recipe, 550 Pudding, savoury, recipes, 550, 5G0 Yorkshire, 550 Pudding, sweet, recipes : American, 554 Apricot, 552 Baked, 553 Balmoral, 559 Bird-nest, 553 Caramel, 558 Cocoa-nut, 552 Denmark, 558 Devonshire, 553 Fruit, 552 Invalid, 561 Pudding, <Ssc.—cont. Orange, 552 Rhubarb sponge. 555 Rizine, 553, 558, 559 Soudic, 552 Spanish, 554 Sultana. 552 Puddings (poudings), a Roman dish, 14 Sweet, 305-308 King of, recipe, 553 Nursery, recipe, 554 Sweet sauce for, recipe, 546 Puff paste, economical, recipe, 557 Pumpkin (citronille), 266 Purees et potages lids (purdes and thick soups), 100-109 Queen’s bread, recipe, 557 Rabbit pie, recipe, 543 Rabbit, stewed, with onions, recipe, 542 Ragofit of pou'try, recipe, 541 Raie (skate), 119 Ramakins, lobster, recipe, 551 Ravioles, 143 Recipes, practical household, 537-562 Fish, 539-541 Made dishes, 541-545 Sauces, gravies, &c., 645, 546 Savoury dishes, miscellaneous, for breakfast, supper, &c., 546-557 Soups, 537-539 Sweet dishes, 551-562 See also Soups ; Fish ; Made dishes : Sauces ; Savoury dishes, miscel- laneous ; and Sweet dishes. Red mullet (rouget), 119 Recipe, 540 Releves, &c. (removes, &c\), 126-135 Reyniere, Grimod de, on a cook’s duties, 18 ; his sympathy with the cook, 39 Rhubarb sponge pudding, recipe, 555 Rice, howto bo'l, lor curries,recipe, 544 Rice, savoury, recipe, 549 Richelieu, Marechal Duke de, his culinary inventions, 17 Rissoles, 142 Beef, recipe, 548 Rizine and cheese pudding, recipe, 550 Bars, recipe. 561 Bre .d, recipe, 557 Cake, family, recipe, 561 Cake, rich, recipe 562 Cocoa-nut pudding, recipe, 553 Creams, recipe, 555 Cutlets, recipe, 549 Divine, recipe, 656 Dough nuts, recipe, 554 Kedgeree, recipe, 649PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 572 RIZ Rizine— can/. Midgets, recipe, 560 Pancakes, recipe, 555 Pudding, baked, recipes, 559 Pudding, boiled, recipes, 558 Savoury recipe, 549 Sweet cassolettes of, recipe, 561 . Trifle, recipe, 555 Roasting, notes on, 74-76 Roasts (rotis), 250-255 Beef (bceuf), 251 Classical quotations for, 481 Game (gibier), 252 Lamb (agneau), 251 Mutton (moutou), 151 Pork (pore), 251 Poultry (volatile), 252 Veal (veau), 250 Roll, Swiss, recipe, 561 Romans, the, and the culinary art, 11 sq ; their meals and dishes. 14 Rose, Richard, the murderous cook, his fate, 38 Rotis (roasts), 250-255 Agneau (lamb), 251 Boeuf (beef), 251 Gibier (game), 252 Mouton (mutton), 251 Pore (pork), 251 Veau (veal), 250 Volaille (poultry), 252 Rougets (red mullets), 119 Rutland, Countess of, her Banbury cake, 20 Sago soup, recipe, 537 Salad, potato, recipe, 548 Salades (salads), 284-288 Salads (salades), 284-288 And salad dressing, notes on, 82-85 Classical quotations for, 482 Salmi of duck, recipe, 541 Salmon (saumon), 120 A la tartare, croutes of, recipe, 551 Cutlets a la Victoria, recipe, 541 Salsifis (salsifits), 280 Sardine a la tartare, crofltes of, recipe, 551 Sauce, an ancient, 12 " Sauce for the goose,” recipe for, 49 Sauce recipes, 545, 546 Bacon, 545 Butter, melted, 545 Por mutton cutlets, 545 Green, 545 Lemon, 546 Mayonnaise, economical, 545 Onion, brown, 545 Oyster, 545 Sweet, for puddings, 546 SNO Sauces, 290-304 Saumon (salmon), 120 Sausages, a Roman dish, 14 Savoury dishes, &c. (entremets savour- eux, Ac.), 322-324 Cheese (fromage), 334 Classical quotations for, 483 Eggs ((teufs), 328-332 Farinaceous foods (farineux et mets), 332-334 Pish (poissous), 322-324 Meat, 324 Omelets (omelettes, Ac.), 327. 328 Vegetables (legumes), 325-327 Savoury dishes, miscellaneous recipes, 546-551 Artichokes, savoury of. 547 Beef and veal cutlets baked, 548 Beef rissoles, 5 48 Beetroot, oriental savoury of, 550 Biscuits, wine, 550 Cassolettes, 547 Cheese cigarettes, 547 Cheese tartlets, 550 Eggs, brown fric tsseed, 5 46 Ham cake, 546 Ham, crofltons of, 551 Ham toast, 548 Kidneys, curried, 548 Lobster ramakins, 551 Macaroni au gratin, 547 Meat pancakes, 546 Mince, dish of, 548 Oyster toast, 547 Potato salad, 548 Prawns, curried, 550 Rice, savoury, 5 49 Rizine cutlets, 549 Rizine kedgeree, 549 Rizine, savoury, 549 Steak, savoury, 549 Tomatoes au gratin, 547 Vienna steak, 548 Welsh rarebit, superior, 550 See also Puddings ; Savoury recii'Ks ; and CnofTTES Scalloped shrimps, recipe, 541 Scones, favourite recipe, 562 Scotch cookery in 1791, 18 Grace, a curious, 31 Seakale (chou de mer), 265 Shakspeare and the kitchen, 48 Shrimps, scalloped, recipe, 541 Side-dishes, hot (hors d’ceuvres chaiuls), 135-143 Plain (hors d'oeuvres simples), 89-91 Prepared, cold (hors d'oeuvres froids et mets divers), 92-94 Skate (raie), 119 Smelt (eperlans), 113 Snowballs, apple, recipe, 555INDEX 578 SOL Sole (sole), 122 Fillets of, Parisian style, recipe, 510 Frilled, recipe, 540 Souffle pudding, recipe, 552 Souffles and omelets (souffles et ome- lettes), 308, 309 Beignets, recipe, 554 Soup, recipes, 637-539 Asparagus, 538 Balls, 537 Barley, 538 Celery, 537 Gravy, 539 Julienne, 538 Julienne, from dried vegetables, 538 Lenten, 539 Milk, 537 Mulligatawny, 537 Potato, Parmentier’s recipe for, 504 Sago, 537 Sweetbread, 538 Vegetable, 538 Vegetable marrow, 537 - Soups (potages), 95-109 Classical quotations for, 480 Clear soups (consommes), 95-100 Of the fifteenth century', 13 Purees and thick soups (purges et potages li&i), 100-109 . Sonrcrout (choucroute), 264 Soyer, Alexis, a famous cook, 494-497 Spain, her share in the development of cookery, 19 Spanish pudding, recipe, 554 Wines (vins d’Espagne), 478 Spartan broth, origin of, 38 Spartan fare, 17 Spenser and the kitchen, 48 Spinach (epinards), 267 Sponge cake, recipe, 556 Lemon, recipe, 557 Rhubarb, pudding, recipe, 555 Steak, Berlin, recipe, 543 Savoury, recipe, 549 Vienna, recipe, 548 Sterlet (steurlet), 124 Stewed.pigeons, recipe, 541 Rabbit with onions, recipe, 542 Stewing, notes on, 66, 77 Sturgeon (esturgeon), 114 Sultana pudding, recipe, 552 Supper, savoury dishes for, 646-551. See alxo Savoury dishes Surprise cutlets, recipe, 556 Suzanne, Alfred, a famous chef, 500 Swan, a favourite dish (1512), 14 Sweetbread soup, recipe, 538 Sweet dishes (entremets de douceur),305- 322 Blancmanges and creams, 316 Cakes (gffteaux), 309,310 THA Sweet dishes, Ac .-com. Charlottes, 312, 313 t Creams, whipped,Ac. (cremes fouottees, Ac.), 319 Crofftes aux fruits, 315, 316 Fritters, Ac. (Beignets, Ac ), 313, 31 I Fruit water-ices (glaces de fruits), 321,322 Fruits, stewed (compotes de fruits), 316,317 Fruits with rice, crusts, Ac. (fruits au riz, crofftes, Sic.), 314,315 Ices, creams (glaces, crimes), 319-321 Jellies, Sic. (gelees, Ac.), 317, 318 Pastry, Ac. (patisserie, Ac.), 310-312 Puddings (poudings), 305-308 Soufflis et omelettes, 308, 309 Sweet dishes, recipes, 551-562 Apple snowballs, 555 Beignets souffles, 554 Blancmange, 551 Blancmange, palace, 560 Bread, 557 Children’s trifle, 559 Creams, 555 Custard, economical, 561 Dough nuts, Rizine, 554 Eggs, mock, 554 Felixtowe tart, 560 Fruit pie, 560 Ice cream, 557 Jellies, fruit, for invalids, 560 Lemon sponge, 557 Nursery puddings, 554 Oranges a la Portugaise, 553 Pancakes, Rizine, 555 Picnic cakes, 551 Puff paste, economical, 557 Queen's bread, 557 Rizine sweets, 555, 556 Scones, favourite, 562 Surprise cutlets, 556 Swiss roll, 661 Tea cakes, 562 Vanilla baskets, 556 See also Cake; Jelly; Pudding. Sweet sauce for puddings, recipe, 516 . Swiss biscuits, names of, 336,337 Roll, recipe, 561 Table, curious instructions regarding conduct at, 20 ; notes on laving in the English style, 470 Tanche (tench), 124 Tart, Felixtowe, recipe, 560 Tartlets, cheese, recipe, 550 Taste, the tongue and the sense of, 32 -34 Tea cakes, recipe, 562 Telephone, culinary, 63 sq. Tench (tanche), 124 Thackeray, W. M., on cookery, 25PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 574 TIM Timbales, 143 Toast, ham, receipe, 548 Oyster, recipe, 547 Tomato's (tomatoes), 280-282 Au gratin, recipe, 547 Tongue, the, and the sense of taste, 32- 34 Topinambours (Jerusalem artichokes), 282, 283 Tritie, children’s, recipe, 559 Rizine, recipe, 555 Trojan, a Roman epicure, 12 Trout (truite), 125 Baked, recipe, 540 Truffles, 283,284 Truite (trout), 125 Turbot (turbot), 125 Turkeys (dindes) entrees, 217-220 Turks, eating and drinking of the, 58 sq. Turnips (uavets), 269 Udk, L. E., a famous French cook, 25, 491-493 ; his opinion of English cookery, 26 ‘TJmble pie,” origin of the phrase, 29 Vanilla baskets, recipe, 556 Yatel, Prince of Conde’schef, 39 Veal cutlets, beef and, baked, recipe, 548 Probable effects on the battle of Leipsic, 39 Entrees (veau entrees), 148-168 Removes, &c. (veau releves), 133, 134 Roasts (veau rotis), 250 Vegetable marrow soup, recipe, 537 Pickles (legumes confits au vinaigre), 289 Savouries, 325-327 Soup, recipe, 538 Vegetab’es (legumes), 255-284 Artichokes (artichauts), 255-257 Artichokes, Jerusalem (topinam- bours), 282, 283 Asparagus (asperges), 257-259 Broad beans (feves de marais), 268 • Cabbages (ehoux), 264 Oardoous (cardons), 259 Carrots (carottes), 260 Celery (e61eri), 261, 262 Knobs (celeraic), 266 Cftpes, 262 Chicory or endive (chicoree), 264 Classical quotations for, 482 Cucumbers (concombres), 266 Egg plants (aubergines), 259 French beans (haricots verts), 268 Haricot beans, white (haricots b’aucs), 268 Hop sprigs (jets de houb’.ons), 269 Lentils (lentilles), 269 YOR Vegetables—coni. Lettuces (laitues), 269 Mixed (macedoine), 269 Mushrooms (champignons), 262, 263 Potatoes (pommes deterre), 270-280 Pumpkin (citronille), 266 Salsifits (salsifis), 280 Spinach (6pinards), 267 Tomatoes (tomates), 280-282 Truffles (truffes), 283, 284 Turnips (uavets), 269 Vienna steak, recipe, 548 Vocabulary of terms used in eookerv 507-536 Volaille entries (poultry entries), 212- 237 Canards (ducks), 212-214 Canetons (ducklings), 214. 215 Chapons (capons or capon pullets), 215-217 Dindes (turkejs), 217-220 Oies (geese), 220-222 Pigeons, 222-225 Poulets (chicken), 226-237 tics also Gibibb entrees Volaille releves, &c. (poultry removes. &c.,) 134 Volaille rotis (poultry roasts), 252 Sauvage (wild poultry) entrees, 237- 244 Warner on Roman cookery, 12,18 Warwick, Earl of, his banquet (1470), 27 Wellington, Duke of, his indifference to culinary artifice, 29 Welsh rarebit, superior, recipe, 550 Whale, a select dish, 13 Whiting (merlan), 117 William the Conqueror, His reward to cooks, 15,36 Wine biscuit, recipe, 550 Wines, order of serving, 473; for the table, notes on, 474; list ot most known brands, 475 Wines, Australian (Anus d’Anstralie). 478 Champagne, 475 Clarets (Bordeaux), notes on, 475 Classical quotations for, 483 sq Crus de Bordeaux, 476 Crus de Burgoyne (Burgundy), 476 French white, 477 German,noto on, 477 German, list of, 477 Greek (vins Grecs), 478 Italian (vins Italiens), 478 Spanish(vins d'Espagne), 478 Wolsey, his banquet (1609), 13 Wood, Nicholas, a famous chef, 29 Yorkshire pudding, recipe, 550CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDACULINARY MEMORANDACULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA. ICULINARY MEMORANDAULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDAULINARY MEMORANDACULINARY MEMORANDACULINARY MEMORANDACULINARY MEMORANDACULINARY MEMORANDACULINARY MEMORANDACULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDACULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDACULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA1. CULINARY MEMORANDA. ~ .*