92 accurate apposition, and suitable relation of the cicatrix to the bone. It has also been brought clearly out that different methods of operating are suitable for different positions, and also that even in the same operation it is possible to unite the advantages of both the flap and the circular method.” “ In the modified circular, which is best suited for amputation below the knee, in the long anterior flaps of Teale, Spence, and Carden, we have illustrations of the manner in which the advantages of both the flap and circular methods have been secured, without the disadvantages of either. The long anterior flap, not like Teale’s to fold upon itself, but like Spence’s and Carden’s to hang over and shield the ends of the bones, and the face of a transversely-cut short posterior flap, seems to be now the typical method for successful amputations. There may be exceptions, as when the anterior skin is more injured than the posterior, or where an anterior flap would demand too great sacrifice of length of limb, but as a rule it will be found the best method for the patient.” A Few Special Indications.—With reference to the lower limb, it may be noticed that all the extensive and forcible movements of that limb, as in walking, are movements in the forward direction. At the beginning of the step the lower limb is thrown forwards. At the conclusion of the step, it gets behind the body simply through the body being moved forwards. The remark also applies to the stump left after an amputation; whether the patient walks, i.e., moves an artificial limb with.his stump, or sits down, the extensive and forcible movements of the stump are movements forwards. Further, the ampli- tude of such movements is proportionate to the length of the stump — considerable, therefore, when the luub has been amputated either at the lower part of the leg or at the lower part of the thigh, inconsider- able when the limb has been amputated either at the upper part of the leg or at the upper part of the thigh. Amputation by a long anterior flap specially commends itself in the two first-named cases, while in the two last-named, a covering made more equally from both aspects of the limb (circular, modified circular, or equal flaps) would generally seem prefer- able. With reference to the upper limb, very little consideration is required to establish, generally speaking, the following indications:— Amputation of phalanges, flap from the pulpy palmar aspect; amputation of entire fingers {and also of toes), oval method, which avoids an incision and therefore a subsequent cicatrix in the palm (or sole); amputation of the lower part of the forearm, two short flaps of skin and fascia, one anterior, the other posterior; amputation at the shoulder, Spence’s modified oval method, which places the subsequent cicatrix in the least exposed position.