85 GENERAL REMARKS ON LIGATURES AND AMPUTATIONS. The following embody a few practical remarks, several of them the result of a good many years’ obser- vation in the teaching of operative surgery. A little indulgence is asked for in respect of any slight departures from usually accepted lines of thought:— REMARKS ON LIGATURES. It may be of use to divide the operation for the tying of an arteiy into : (1) the division of the skin and superficial f.ascia ; (2) the division of the deep fascia; (3) the subsequent dissection ; (4) the cleaning of the artery ; (5) passing the ligature, and tjdng the knot. (1.) The incision shoidd be m.ade, as a rule, in the course of the artery : in some cases, however, e.^., in the ligature of the subclavian artery and of the first part of the a.villary, the incision is made to cross the course of the artery more or less obliquely. The incision should be from two to fotir inches in length, being shorter for a superficial artery than for one more deeply situated. The incision should be made without tailing; to insure this, the knife should be held vertically when entered, and should again be brought to the vertical position as it is withdi'awn. 'W'hile making the incision the surgeon should bear in mind the situation of any important superficial vein or nerve, in order to avoid injuring the same, should it come under his knife. The incision should be deepened till the deep fascia is thoroughly exposed. But the deep fascia should not be divided just yet: it is desirable to verify through the undivided deep fascia the exact situa- tion of such guide points as nuvy be visible through it, e.g., tendons of supinator longus and flexor carj)i radialis in the ligature of the lower part of the radial artery ; then, if the incision is found not to have been made in exactly the right place, it can be shifted a little by slight traction on the skin. There is no shifting the incision through the deep fascia, when this has once been divided. (2.) The deep fascia should be divided on the director if the arteiy is immediately subjacent, as in the case of the radial in its lower part; the