88 * Condensed from Erichsen’s “Science and Art of Surgery.” the skin should be drawn upwards, i.e., towards the root of the limb, before it is divided. The Width of Flaps.—During’ many years’ experience as a teacher of operative surgery, the author has almost invariably noticed in beginners a tendency which requires to be carefully guarded against. It is the tendency when amputating by the two-flap method to make the first flap too narrow—that is to say, embracing less than the half circumference of the limb. The first flap being too narrow, the second flap is of a necessity markedly too wide, for what is taken off the first flap is tacked on to the second flap in addition to the share of soft parts which properly belongs to it. The author would strongly advise the inexperienced operator who is going to perfonn an amputation by the two-flap method to first divide a vue tTceil the circumference of the limb into two halves (generally anterior and posterior), and, grasping the limb from behind wth the left hand, to mark out with thumb and middle finger of that hand, while beginning the first flap, the two extremities of the diameter of the limb (generally the transverse diameter) from which the flaps are to hang. The sides of the first flap being demarcated by two downward incisions made from such points, the danger of making flaps of unequal width disappears. The Shape of Flaps.—Beginners frequently make their flaps more or less lance-shaped, as in A, or, worse still, having begun their flap on one side by an oblique incision (as a in Fig. B), and finding that it is getting too pointed below, they try to widen it on the other side, thus making it lopsided. The two lateral incisions which bound the flap at its base should be parallel to axis of the limb. Theoretically, a flap may be considered as bounded by five incisions, as in C, i.e., two vertical incisions in the axis of the limb bounding its base and sides, a transverse incision across the limb bounding its apex, and two oblique curved incisions rounding off its angles. The beginner will find it to his ad- vantage to fix his mind, while making a flap, mainly upon the vertical direction and proper position (for the position see above) of the incisions bounding the flap at its base and sides, and on the transverse direction of the incision bounding it at its apex. The angles of the flap wUl be sure to be rounded off satisfactorily. Length of Flaps or other Covering.*—" In operating on