87 The behaviour of the skin—of which, if he will hut notice it, the student will become aware as soon as he has made his fiist incision—and the exteme importance of a good and ample skin covering, supply the basis of the proposed division. The skin, when divided, retracts veiy considerably'—more so, in the dead body at least, than do the muscles. Wben the covering is made from without inwarfs—and the muscles are divided, the superficial ones at the level to which the skin has retracted, and the deeper ones still higher up— this retraction of the skin is immaterial so far as the covering is con- cerned, provided the bone be divided as is recommended below. But when flaps are made by transfixion the frequent result, if it be not guarded against, is that the muscles, when the flaps are completed, are seen to stand out considerably beyond the skin. -4n obvious conclusion is that the young surgeon, till he have acquired experience, should, as far as possible, adopt the safer course of making the covei-ing from without inwards, i.e., from the surface to the deeper x)arts. Cutting Flaps by Transfixion.—E (see diagram below) being the point at which the knife is entered, the author's experience is that most operatoi-s cut too far downwards, and then, altering too suddenly the direction of the blade, try to cut too directly outwai-ds (dotted line). Instead of thus cutting first down- wards and then outwards, the operator should follow a somewh.at elliptical line, such as the dark line in the diag-ram. It wUl be noticed that the dark line is made up of several short straight lines ; these are intended to represent th^ several partial cuts made by the successive inthrusts and withdrawals of the amputat- ing knife, of which the elliptical curve is made up. The first inthrust is made with the blarle in the direc- tion of the axis of the limb, the fii-st withdrawal is made with the blade slightly inclined outwaids, the second inthiust is made with the blade a little more inclined, and so on. It is desirable that the knife should be shaiq), and that the several inthiusts and withdrawals should be good long sweeps of the knife, so that the cutting be effected with as little pressui’e as possible of the blade against the soft parts, conse- quently with as little tension ns po.ssihle of the soft parts, or as little dragging as possible of the soft parts by the knife. It will be seen that if the soft parts are tensed or drag'ged upon when the knife cuts its way out, the skin, being stretched before being divided, will, when divided, immediately retract, and thus leave the muscles more or less uncovered. If there is any sign of its being tensed.