157 CHANGES IN THE CIRCULATION AT BIRTH. right ventricle; by far the larger portion is thought to be directed by the Eustachian valve through the foramen ovale into the left auricle, and thence, together with the small quantity of blood returned from the lungs by the pulmonary veins, to pass into the left ventricle, whence it is sent into the arch of the aorta, to be distributed almost entirely to the head aud upper limbs. Sabatier was the first to call attention particularly to the action of the Eustachian valve in separating the currents of blood entering the right auricle by the superior and inferior venae cavae. This separation, as well as that occurring between the currents passing through the aortic arch and the ductus arteriosus into the descend- ing aorta, was illustrated experimentally by John lie id. A striking confirmation of the extent to which the last mentioned division of the two currents of the foetal blood may take place, without disturbance of the circulation up to the time of birth, is afforded by the examples of malformation in which a complete obliteration has existed in the aortic trunk immediately before the place of the union of the ductus arteriosus with the posterior part of the aortic arch. In earlier stages of development than those above described, it is certain that there is little or no separation of the two kinds of blood, for both the umbilical veins from the placenta and the veins from the yolk sac and body generally, pour their blood together into the sinus venosus, and the mixed blood is then forced through a single somewhat narrowed orifice (porta vesUbuli of His) into the auricle. CHANGES IN THE CIRCULATION AT BIRTH. The changes which occur in the organs of circulation and respiration at birth, and which lead to the establishment of their permanent condition, are more immedi- ately determined by the inflation of the lungs with air in the first respiration, the accompanying rapid dilatation of the pulmonary blood-vessels with a greater quantity of blood, and the interruption to the passage of blood through the placental circula- tion. These changes are speedily followed by shrinking and obliteration of the ductus arteriosus, and of the hypogastric arteries from the iliac trunk to the place of their is me from the body by the umbilical cord ; by the cessation of the passage of blood through the foramen ovale, and somewhat later by the closure of that foramen, and by the obliteration of the umbilical vein as far as its entrance into the liver, and of the ductus venosus behind that organ. The process of obliteration of the arteries appears to depend at first mainly on the contraction of their coats, but this is very soon followed by a considerable thickening of their substance, reducing rapidly their internal passage to a narrow tube, aud leading in a short time to final closure, even although the vessel may not present externally any considerable diminution of its diameter. It commences at birth, and is perceptible after a few respirations have occurred. It makes rapid progress in the first and second days, and by the third or fourth day the passage through the umbilical arteries is usually completely interrupted. The ductus arteriosus is rarely found open after the eighth or tenth day, and by three weeks it has in almost all instances become completely impervious. The process of closure in the veins is slower ; but they remain empty of blood and collapsed, and by the sixth or seventh day are generally closed. Although blood ceases at once to pass through the foramen ovale from the moment of birth, or as soon as the left auricle becomes filled with the blood return- ing from the lungs, and the pressure within the two auricles tends to be more equalised during their diastole, yet the actual closure of the foramen is more tardy than any of the other changes now referred to. It is gradually effected by the union of the forepart of the valve of the fossa ovalis with the margin of the limbus of Yieussens on the left side ; but the crescentic margin is generally perceptible in the