DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART. 14.4 with the fused cusliion-like thickenings which are subdividing the common auricular orifice. But before the originally free communication between the two auricles is thus closed, a new aperture makes its appearance above and at the back of this septum, and gradually enlarges, so that a passage is thus re-established, but in a different situation. This new orifice is the foramen ovale. It becomes closed by a second septum, which also starts from the superior auricular wall, a little to the right of the original attachment of the first septum, and gradually grows forwards and downwards over the orifice. This second septum becomes the limbus Vieussenii, the first one forms the so-called valve of the foramen ovale (Born). According to His’ account of the process in the human embryo, the septum atriorum is formed by an anterior, or lower, and a posterior, or upper, sickle-shaped projection, which between them enclose the foramen ovale, and form respectively the limbus Vieussenii and the valve of the foramen ovale; the connective tissue growth which he describes as growing from the posterior auricular wall towards the auriculo-ventricular orifice takes an important part in the formation of the lower septal projection (septum intermedium). There is reason, how- ever, to believe that the process, as above described by Born for the rabbit, is materially the same in all the higher vertebrates, including man. and that the successive growth of both septa from the upper and posterior auricular wall was not noticed by His on account of the lack of a series of human embryos sufficiently complete to show all the stages of growth. Somewhat late in the course of development (after the appearance of the auricular septum), the pulmonary veins are seen entering the left auricle. Before reaching the auricle they have united to form a single vessel, and this opens into the auricle near the septum (fig. 170, p.v.). In some animals, as the rabbit, this represents the permanent mode of termination of the pulmonary veins, but in man the right and left veins come to open separately into the auricular cavity, either by division of the common trunk (His), or by opening ont of the common trunk, and its absorption into the auricle in the same way as the right horn of the venous sinus is absorbed into the right auricle (Born). The two resulting vessels may again divide, so that four pulmonary veins ultimately terminate in the left auricle. The aortic bulb becomes subdivided into two vessels, the ascending aorta and the pulmonary artery. The division is produced by a septum which arises as two longitudinal thickenings of the lining membrane (endocardium). These grow from opposite sides, and gradually meeting, fuse together in the middle of the bulb. The folds take an oblique course down the bulb, for above they are anterior and posterior, but below are right and left, hence the resulting vessels alter separation are anterior and posterior below and right and left above. The endocardial thickenings extend somewhat below the origin of the bulb, and unite with one another and with the septum of the ventricles, which they complete, and of which they form the mem- branous part. The ventricular part of the heart is now completely divided into two, each communicating with the corresponding division of the arterial bulb. There are at first no semilunar valves, the soft thickened endocardial tissue of the bulb appeal- ing to exercise a sort of valvular action. The valves are formed as three projec- tions of this tissue at the base of each vessel, at first thick and soft, but subsequently becoming thinner and membranous. The common aortic trunk has four such thickenings at the lower end, and the septum of the bulb as it descends is prolonged into the right and left of these, so that the dumb-bell-shaped orifice is divided into two triangular apertures, the bulging sides of which are formed by the endocaidial cushions and become developed into the semilunar valves (fig.. 174). The aortic septum begins between the fourth and fifth aortic arches, and is so dis- posed that the fourth arch continues the aortic half of the bulb, the fifth the pul- monary half. After the completion of the septum, an external groove makes its appearance along the line of the endocardial thickenings, and deepening gradually, splits the bulb into two separate vessels.