153 DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL VEINS. The primitive jugular vein receives the blood from the cranial cavity by channels in front of the ear, which are subsequently obliterated : in the greater part of its extent it becomes the external jugular vein ; and near its lower end it receives small branches, which grow to be the internal jugular and subclavian veins (fig. 185). The cardinal reins are the primitive vessels which return the blood from the Wolffian bodies, the vertebral column, and the parietes of the trunk. Their lower extremities, which become developed later into the internal iliac veins, receive, as Fia. 185.—Scheme of the development of the chief veins OF THE BODY. (G. D. T. ) The primitive venous trunks are indicated by black outlines, and their names are enclosed within parentheses. The definitive veins are represented blue. the lower limb becomes developed, the sciatic veins, and later the external iliac ; higher up, with the development of the kidneys, the renal veins, with the spermatic and suprarenal, also open into them. The bilaterally symmetrical arrangement which at first prevails becomes lost, owing to the obliteration of a large part of the left cardinal vein, and the formation of a transverse communication (trans- verse iliac vein) between its lower extremity and the right cardinal, a little above the place where the right external iliac joins it. The greater part of the left common iliac becomes formed by this communicating vessel, only a small part being- formed by cardinal vein, while the right is wholly formed by cardinal vein. Above the transverse iliac vein the fate of the cardinal veins on the two sides is very different. That of the left side becomes obliterated for some distance, whereas that of the right side undergoes an increased development, receiving as it now does the blood from the whole of the lower limbs and pelvis : it forms the greater part of the inferior vena cava. But the hepatic part of the vena cava has become developed independently of the cardinal veins as a median vessel which opens above into the trunk formed by the junction of the ductus venosus with the vitelline veins. A communicating branch is soon formed on either side between the lower end of this median vessel and the cardinal veins at the place where they receive the renal veins, and on the obliteration of the lower part of the left cardinal the left renal vein opens by this communicating branch directly into the vena cava. On the right side the communication becomes the continuation of the main trunk, for the rio-ht cardinal also becomes obliterated for a short distance above the renal vein. (See also Vol. II., Part 2, “ Morphology of the Venous System.”) 1 As development pioceeds, the direction ol the ducts of Cuvier is altered by the descent of the heart from the cervical into the thoracic region, and becomes the same 1 Advantage has been taken of the necessity of reprinting this volume to alter the account of the development of the veins of the trunk, the former description having been based upon the earlier re- searches of Hatlike, which have been shown by Hochstottcr to require modification (November, 1895)