98 RECENT LITERATURE. the human embryo ns the organ of Jacobson is not really that structure, but represents h special gland which occurs in some lemurs in the lower part of the nasal septum. The epiblast of the olfactory area early becomes thickened, and resembles in structure the neural epiblast (His). As in the latter, some of the cells (neuroblasts) become pyriform and nerve-fibre processes grow out from them, whilst the remainder form long sustentacular columns, which partially anastomose to form a spongework. The neuroblasts subsequently pass out towards the olfactory lobe as already described (p. 81). All the complexities of the nasal fossae (and they are far more complex and labyrinthic in many animals than in man) are produced by folds and outgrowths of the original simple depressions, and the thickened epithelium of these depressions extends over aU parts of the cavities which are thus formed. But it is only in the upper part of the nasal fossae that the connexion by nerve-fibres with the olfactory lobe becomes established, and it is in this part only that the true sense-epithelium becomes developed. In the lower, or respiratory part of the fossae the epithelium remains relatively thin and becomes ciliated. RECENT LITERATURE. Eye and Nose. Born, G., Die Nasenliolile u. der Thrdnennasengang der amnioten Wirbeltliiere, Morph. Jakrb., 1879 u. 1883. Disse, J., Die Ausbildung der Nasenholile nach der Geburt, Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abth. 1889. Ewetzky, Th., Zur Entwiclcelungsycschichte des Thrdnennasenganges beim Mensohen, Archiv f. Ophthalmol., Bd. xxxiv., 1888. Gottsch.au, Zur Entioickelung der Saugethierlinse, Anat. Anzeiger, 1886. His, W., Anatomie'menschlicher Embryonen, Leipzig, 1880—85 ; Unsere Korperform, Ac., Leip- zig, 1875 ; Die Formentwickelung des menschlichen Vorderhirns, Abhandl. d. k. Siichsischen Gresell- schaft, 1889. Keibel, F., Zur Entwiclcelung des Glaskorpers, Arch. f. Anat. u. Phys., Anat. Abth., 1886. Kessler, Zur Entwiclcelung des Auges der Wirbeltliiere, Leipzig, 1877. Kolliker, A., Zur Entwiclcelung des Auges und Geruchsorganes menscldicher Embryonen, Fest- schrift der Schweizer. Universitat Zurich gewidmet, Wurzburg, 1883. Koranyi, A., Beitrage zur Entwiclcelung der Krystallinse bei den Wirbelthieren, Internat. Mo- natsschr. fur Anatomie u. Physiologie, 1886. Legal, Die Nasenliolile u. der Thrdnennasengang, Morph. Jahrb., 1883. Ear. Baginsky, B., Zur Entwiclcelung der Gehorschneclce, Yerhandl. d. physiol. Gesellschaft zu Berlin, 1885-86. Beard, J., On the segmental sense organs of the lateral line and on the morphology of the vertebrate auditory organ, Zool. Anzeiger, No, 161, 1884. Boettcher, A., Ueber Entwiclcelung u. Bau des Gehbrlabyrinths, Verhandl. d. kaiserl. Leop. Carol. Acad., Dresden, Bd. 35. , His, W., jun., Zur Entwiclcelungsgeschichte des Acusticofaciahs-Gebietes bevrn Menschen. Arch, f. Anat/u. Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1889, Supplement Bd. Hoffmann, C. K., Ueber die Beziehung der ersten Kiementaselic zu der Anlage der Tuba Eustachii und des Cavum tympani, Archiv f. mikrosk. Anat. xxiii., 1884. Noorden, v., Die Entwiclcelung des Labyrinths bei Knochenfischen, Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1883. Kiidinger, N., Zur Entwiclcelung der hdutigen Bogengange der mneren Ohres, bitzungsber. d. Akademie d. Wissensch. zu Miinchen, Bd. xviii., 1888. Tuttle, Alb. H., The relation of the external m.eatus, tympanum and Eustachian tube to the first visceral cleft, Proc. American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1884. . Vassaux, Eccherches sur les premieres phases du d&veloppement de l ceil chcz le lapm d’ochthalm., 1888. Arch