51 CHANGES IN THE UTERUS. imbedded in the muscular coat of the uterus, and retain their epithelium. After separation of the placenta from the uterine wall at parturition, the uterine mucous membrane, with its epithelium and glands, becomes renewed from this deepest portion of the decidua serotina. . ,, The inost important changes of structure occur m the superficial part of the placental decidua, after the disappearance of the glands. The exact manner in which these changes take place has not been followed out, but the ultimate result is the replacement of the whole of this portion of the decidua, with the exception of a Fig. 54.—Sections illustrating the structure of tiie placenta (Minot). A, vertical section through the margin of a placenta at full term ; D, D, deep layer of decidua; Vi, chorionic villi variously cut, their bloodvessels injected ; tSi, marginal space of the placenta, nearly free from villi ; vi, aborted villi beyond the placenta ; Fib, canalized fibrine of Langhans, produced, according to Minot, by transformation of the superficial layer of the chorionic epiblast. B, decidual tissue from a placenta at full term ; v, a bloodvessel ; cl, cl', decidual cells; the latter with several nuclei. comparatively narrow basal layer next to the spongy structure, into a series of inter- communicating vascular sinuses, which together constitute an immense flattened space (intervillous space), bounded internally (toward the uterine wall) by the basal layer just referred to, and externally by the chorion ; also, according to some authors, by a thin layer of decidua, the subchor ionic membrane of Turner, which is described as lying immediately under the chorion of the ovum but so intimately incorporated with it as to be with difficulty demonstrable as a separate stratum except at the edge of the placenta. From the basal layer, partitions of fibrous decidual tissue pass towards the chorionic surface, and serve to partially sub-divide the labyrinth of vascular spaces or sinuses into a number of loculi (cotyledons). Each of these loculi is occupied by an