THE FIRST CEREBRAL VESICLE. 72 P<XK OCC. hemisphere vesicles, so that it happens that the former are thrown into folds separated by sulci, and the surface loses its smooth appearance. Such relatively rapid growth occurs during the second and third month in the human embryo resulting in the production of a number of infoldings of the surface, which are mostly transverse to the (bent) axis of the brain, although one or two on the mesial surface run parallel to that axis. These infoldings of the surface, which may be termed temporary or primitive sulci, necessarily have a corresponding projection into the cavity of the thin-walled hemisphere vesicle (fig. 75). During the fourth month, probably owing to a relatively more rapid expansion of the cranium, most of these primitive sulci become obliterated, and the cerebral surface is again almost smooth. Three, however, of the primitive sulci remain as permanent fissures of the brain,1 and since the fissure of Sylvius is also now formed, although in a somewhat different manner, the hemisphere of the human foetus at the beginning of the fifth month is marked by four well characterised sulci having corresponding projections into the interior of its cavity. These permanent primitive sulci are the following 1. The hippocampal sulcus, corresponding with the projection of the cornu ammonis (hippocampus) into the lateral ventricle. B inc.par. Fig. 82.—F(TOTAL BRAIN OP THE BEGINNING OP THE EIGHTH MONTH. (MihalkovlCS.) A., from above ; B., from the sido ; C., mesial surface. Ho, Itolarulic sulcus: Si/, Sylvian fissure ; par.one, parieto-occipital; cede, calcarine ; pr.c, precentral y pll, parallel; ini.par, intraparietal; call.mar, calloso-marginal; unc, uncus. 2. The parieto-occipital sulcus, corresponding with the bend of the posterior cornu of that ventricle. 3. The calcarine sulcus, corresponding with the projection of the calcar avis. 4. The Sylvian fissure, corresponding with the curve of the lateral ventricle. To these may be reckoned the longitudinal infolding of the mesial wall of the 1 It,is, however, uncertain whether the temporary sulci develope into or whether they are replaced by corresponding permanent sulci. See on this subject a paper by D. J. Cunningham in the Journal of Anatomy, April, 1890.