CRANIAL NERVES. 77 least in part at the expense of the sensory epiblastic thickenings. In connection with this question it is worthy of note that from the sensory thickening which forms the olfactory area a ganglionic rudiment becomes formed which joins the olfactory lobe of the brain, and gives origin to the olfactory nerve-fibres (His). °Even in the adult, as was shown by Thomsen, traces of pre-existent ganglionic structure can be found in the roof of the third nerve, and similar traces of ganglionic structure have Fig. 89.—Transverse section THROUGH THE POSTERIOR PART OP THE HEAD OP AN EMBRYO CHICK OP 30 HOURS. (From Balfour.) lib, hind-brain ; vg, vagus nerve ; cp, epiplast ; ch, noto- chord ; x, sub-notochordal rod; al, throat; lit, heart ; pp, body- cavity ; so, parietal mesoblast ; •*/, visceral mesoblast; hy, hypo- blast. also been described by Gaskell in the roots of the fourth nerve, in the motor root of the fifth, and in the root of the seventh nerve. If these, as Gaskell supposes, indicate the pre-existence of sensory ele- ments in the roots, it is pro- bable that these nerves and ganglia have all been origi- nally developed like the posterior gangliated roots of the spinal nerves, as outgrowths from the neural crest. Whether they are joined by outgrowths corresponding to the efferent fibres of the spinal nerves, or whether they originally contain the elements of the efferent fibres, and thus resemble the spinal nerves of Amphioxus, in which there are no anterior roots, but both sensory and motor nerves are contained in the posterior roots, is not at present known. What is however clear is that the ganglion cells and afferent fibres in the roots of the third, fourth, motor of fifth and seventh nerves,, eventually entirely disappear, the efferent fibres alone remaining, while in the roots of the sixth, eleventh, and twelfth nerves efferent fibres only are found, and ganglionic rudiments are not developed at all. As is shown in another part of this work (Neurology) the nuclei of origin of the efferent cranial nerves are disposed in two longitudinal series. One of these series comprises the nuclei of origin of the somatic efferent nerves of Gaskell, which correspond with the largest fibres of a typical anterior spinal root, and the series of nuclei is a continuation of the cell-column of the anterior horn ; the nuclei of this series are those of the hypoglossal, or twelfth, the sixth, fourth, and third. The other series comprises the nuclei of origin of the splanchnic efferent nerves of Gaskell, which correspond with the medium-sized and smallest fibres of a typical anterior spinal root, and the series is a continuation mainly of the cells of the lateral cornu or intermediolateral tract, and partly, perhaps, of the cells of the base of the posterior hom ; the nuclei of this series are those of the spinal accessory, those of the efferent fibres of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal, the facial, and the motor nucleus of the fifth. According to the observations of His, the distinction into an anterior or ventral (somatic) and a lateral (splanchnic) group of efferent fibres is well marked in the embryo by the fact that the two kinds of efferent fibres take origin from entirely different parts of the basal lamina of the neural tube, those which correspond with the somatic efferent fibres originating from groups of neuroblasts near the middle line, while the others take their rise near the junction of the basal with the alar lamina (see fig. 00). With the alar lamina itself the afferent fibres are con- nected, but they do not arise from groups of cells within it, as do the efferent fibres within the basal lamina : on the contrary, they effect their connection with the lamina by growing into it from a ganglion in the manner already described for the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and they then appear in most cases to grow downwards in the direction of the spinal cord. This is stated by His to be the case with the