DEVELOPMENT OF THE TESTICLE. J 25 distinguished, but become formed subsequently by an increase in size of one or more of the cells. The further changes which take place in the Graafian follicle are described with the structure of the ovary (v. Splanchnology). The remainder of Fig. 151.—Transverse section through the ovary of an embryo shark (scyllium), showing the-. GERM-EPITHELIUM FORMING PRIMITIVE OVA. (Balfour.) At po, the germ-epithelium and primitive ova ; the lightly-shaded part is the ovarian stroma, covered elsewhere by flattened epithelium. the germinal epithelium which is left covering the surface after the formation of the egg-tubes, constitutes the permanent epithelium of the ovary. Most, if not all, of the permanent ova are produced, at least in the human subject, long before birth. In the human ovary the nests of cells which are to form the Graafian follicles. Fig. 152.—Section of the ovary of a NEWLY-BORN CHILD. HIGHLY MAG- NIFIED. (Waldeyer.) a, Germinal epithelium dipping in at b, to form an ovarian tube ; c, c, prim- ordial ova lying in the germ-epithelium ; d, d, longer tube becoming constricted so as to form nests of cells ; e, e, larger nests ; /, distinctly formed follicle with ovum and epithelium ; g, g, blood-vessels. are more equally diffused through the substance of the ovary than in most animals, in many of which the young follicles remain forming a stratum near the surface. In the human embryo of from four months up to the period of birth, the ovary seems to be formed of little else than a mass of young ova, closely surrounded by flattened cells of the germinal epithe- lium and constituting- thus minute Graafian follicles; the amount of stroma being at this time relatively small. It has been calculated that the ovaries may at this stage contain as many as 70,000 primordial ova. Development of the Testicle.—The germinal epithelium does not undergo so marked an hypertrophy in the male as in the female. But it becomes thickened, and enlarged cells, corresponding to the primordial ova in the female, are found in it. Further, small strands of the epithelium dip down into the subjacent mesoblast,