i54b DESCENT OF THE TESTICLES. which grows simultaneously into the epithelium, and eventually cell-nests are sepa- rated and included in the mesoblastic tissue. Whether these nests are derived from the division of the primordial ova only, or whether they also include other cells of the germinal epithelium is not clear. It would appear that from these cell-nests the epithelium of the seminiferous tubules is developed, although all stages of the process have not been observed. The cell-nests eventually become connected with the outgrowths from the Wolffian bodies (fig. 153, st), which as already mentioned Tig. 153. —Section op the germInal epithelium and adjacent stroma in a male chick embrto. (Semon.) (j. <x>, germinal epithelium forming a thickened ridge-like projection ; pr.ov, primitive ova of various sizes, some in the germinal epithelium and others somewhat beyond the limit of this epithelium ; st, strands of cells which have grown from the Wolffian body towards the germinal epithelium, and one of which appears connected with an enlarged primitive ovum. form the rete testis and the efferent tubes of the testicle. The reproductive gland is in both sexes at first attached directly to the Wolffian body (fig. 156, A, ot), which itself is attached by a fold of peritoneum to the back of the abdominal cavity. This fold becomes the mesovarium or mesorchium as the case may be. A baud also passes from the Wolffian body upwards to the diaphragm, and another fold contain- ing involuntary muscular fibres—the plica gulernatrix—runs down towards the groin from the lower part of the Wolffian body and the duct. This band, as the Wolffian body becomes atrophied, is found to be attached to the reproductive organ, constituting the gubernaculum testis in the male, and the round ligament of the ovary in the female (fig. 15G, g). Descent of the Testicles.—The testicles originally lie in the lumbar region of the abdomen. From this part they become shifted, at first to the internal abdominal ring, opposite which they are found in the sixth month, and which thev enter hi the seventh month, then down the inguinal canal into the scrotum, which