FERTILIZATION. 11 Fertilization.—The ovum, after its expulsion from the Graafian follicle is received upon the fimbriated end of the Fallopian tube. The fimbria are covered by a prolongation of the ciliated lining of the tube, and the action of the cilia serves to propel the minute ovum into and along the tube towards the uterus. In tins passage it may, if impregnation have occurred, meet with the spermatozoa, one 01 more "of which may penetrate the zona pellucida, and fertilize the ovum. it is possible in some instances for fertilization to occur on the fimbriated extremity ot the tube, or in the body of the uterus, but it is probable that m most cases it happens in the tube itself. It is probable that normally only a single spermatozoon enters the vitellus If it should happen that two or more enter, normal development does not as a rule occur. Exceptions to this rule have, however, been recorded. The changes in the ovum which accompany fertilization have, like those which result in the formation of the polar globules, been studied most satisfactorily in the transparent ova ofechinoderms and in Ascaris. In the former (fig. 11) the spermatozoa Fig. 11.—Fertilization op the ovum of an echinoderm. (Selenka.) s, spermatozoon ; m.pr, male pronucleus ; f.pr, female pronucleus. 1. Accession of a spermatozoon to the periphery of the vitellus ; 2. Its penetration, and the radial disposition of the vitelline granules ; 3. Transformation of the head of the spermatozoon into the male pronucleus ; 4, 5. Blending of the male and female pronuclei. may be seen to penetrate the gelatinous investment which here takes the place of a zona pellucida, and the head, of one only as a rule, to imbed itself in the periphery of the ovum, which becomes slightly protruded at the point of contact. According to v. Beneden’s account, the spermatozoon always enters in Ascaris at a particular part of the ovum (polar disc), at which part there is an aperture in the vitelline membrane (micropyle). When once it has passed into the ovum, this aperture becomes closed, and the head of the spermatozoon rapidly increases in size, and acquires the appearance of a nucleus which, in contra-distinction to the remains of the germinal vesicle, or female pronucleus, is termed the male pronucleus. Soon it leaves the periphery, and passes towards the centre of the ovum in the direction of the female pronucleus. In its passage through the protoplasm it appears to exercise a peculiar attraction upon the granules in that substance, for these become arranged in its vicinity in radiating lines. The tail of the spermatozoon has in the meantime disappeared, whether by being cast off or by blending with the protoplasm of the ovum has not certainly been made out. As the male pronucleus approaches the female pronucleus, the latter moves somewhat to meet it, and pre- sently the two pronuclei come into contact and together form a new nucleus, com-