DEVELOPMENT OP THE 154 PRINCIPAL VEINS. as that of the primitive jugular veins. A communicating branch (which maybe termed the transverse jugular) makes its appearance, directed transversely from the junction ol the lclt. subclavian and jugular veins, across the middle line to the ri'dit jugulai ; and fuithci down in the thoracic region between the cardinal veins a communicating branch (transverse cardinal) passes obliquely across the middle line from light to lclt. 1 he communicating branch between the primitive jugular veins is coua ei ted into the left biachiocephnlic or innominate vein, The portion of vessel between the light subclavian vein and the termination ol the transverse jugular becomes the right brachiocephalic vein. The portion of the primitive jugular vein below the transverse jugular, together with the right duct of Cuvier, forms the vena cava superior, while the cardinal vein opening into it is the extremity of the great A B Fig. 186.—A and B.—Diagrammatic outlines of the vestige of the left superior cava akd of a case of its persistence. (Sketched after Marshall.) i. The views are supposed to be from before, the parts of the heart being removed or seen through. 1, 1', internal jugular veins ; 2, 2', subclavian veins ; 3, right innominate ; 3', right or regular superior cava ; 4, left innominate, normal in A, rudimentary in 1!; 5, in A, the opening of the superior intercostal vein into the innominate ; 5', vestige of the left superior cava or duct of Cuvier ; 5, 5', in B, the left vena cava superior abnormally persistent ; 6, coronary sinus; 6', coronary veins ; 7, superior intercostal trunk of the left side (left cardinal vein) ; 8, the principal azygos (right cardinal vein); T, S', some of the upper intercostal veins ; 9, the opening of the inferior vena cava, with the Eustachian valve. vena azygos. On the left side, the portion of the primitive jugular vein placed below the transverse jugular may still be represented by the left superior intercostal vein, but the duct of Cuvier becomes obliterated (with the exception of the part which forms the coronary sinus) as does also usually the uppermost part of the cardinal vein. The remaining part of the left cardinal, however, which receives most of the left intercostal veins, becomes, with the transverse cardinal, converted into the left azygos veins. The variability in the adult arrangement of the veins depends on the different extent to which the originally continuous vessels are developed or atrophied at one point or another. The left duct of Cuvier is obliterated. But even in the adult, traces of this vessel can always be recognised in the form of a librous band, or sometimes a narrow vein, which descends obliquely over the left auricle ; and in front of the root of the left lung there remains an indication of its former presence in the form of a small fold of the serous membrane of the pericardium, the