0 0 G ASTIPULATION OF VERTEBRATES. Amphioxus amongst vertebrates,' and in many invertebrates with holoblastic (alecithal) ova ,1 !'a?e‘m i p,roduced) not by delamination, but by the invagination of one jolt of an originally simple hollow spherical blastodermic vesicle, the invagina ted portion becoming the primitive entoderm and the remaining part of the wall of the vesicle formin'' the primitive ectoderm (fig. 24). This condition, which was discovered by Kowalewsky is known as the gastrula stage, and it is regarded by most embryologists, following Haeckel, as ypical of the mode of formation of the bilaminar blastoderm throughout the animal kingdom Tim aperture of invagination by which the cavity of the entoderm communicates for a time with the exterior has been termed the blastopore (Lankester). It is not possible in this account of the embryology of the mammal (which must necessarily be very short) to examine at any length the evidence upon which the opinion rests that a gastiula, stage can be shown to exist at an early stage in the development of the meroblastic ova ot the lower vertebrate. It will be sufficient for the present purpose to state that in fishes, reptiles, and birds, the ova of all of which are of a markedly meroblastic type, that part ot the ovum in which alone segmentation has occurred, and in which active development subsequently proceeds, produces a bilaminar blastoderm as in the mammal by the separation off as a distinct layer of a lower or inner stratum of cells to form the primitive entoderm, whilst the remaining cells arrange themselves into an upper or outer stratum, the primitive ectodeim.- At one part of the circular blastoderm which has thus been formed there now occurs a crescentic thickening of the ectoderm, on the surface of which a pit or depression becomes formed by an invagination of the ectoderm. This pit extends inwards until it abuts against a subjacent entodermal thickening, and it may even penetrate the entoderm and communicate with the cavity below the blastoderm (which afterwards becomes in part con- verted into the posterior end of the alimentary canal). The invagination in question has been regarded as a rudimentary blastopore, its time of formation having become shifted to a later period, and the entoderm having' already been formed by delamination altogether independently of, in place of resulting from, the invagination, as in the typical mode of gastrula formation. In the mammal a similar invagination of the ectoderm also occurs at the posterior extremity of the embryonic area, and this invagination has been described by Heape in rlie mole as communicating' for a time with the cavity of the blastodermic vesicle (fig. 22, blp}. which sub- Fig. 25.—Surface view of an embryonic area of the mole IN WHICH THE MEDULLARY GROOVE HAS BEGUN TO APPEAR IN FRONT OF THE PRIMITIVE STREAK. At THE JUNCTION OF THE TWO A SMALL APERTURE IS SEEN : THIS IS THE DORSAL OPENING OF THE OBLIQUE NEURENTERIC CANAL. (Heape.) * sequently becomes converted in part into the alimentary canal. In birds and reptiles as well as mammals the invagination in. question soon becomes extended forward along the middle line of the blastoderm as a linear groove (primitive groove), which; indents an ectodermal thickening (primitive streak), and if the posterior invagination represents a blastopore, this groove must be looked upon as an extension of such blas- topore, a view which derives support from the fact that there appears to be a tendency for the primitive groove, at least its anterior end, to penetrate to the entoderm, and thus to form here also a canal of communication between the cavity below the entoderm and the exterior. Such a canal is desig- nated neurenteric,” because the anterior end of the primitive streak and groove becomes eventually enclosed by the neural tube, and the caual then effects a (temporary) communica- tion between the neural tube and the enteric canal. Another important point of resemblance between this invagination and the blastopore of the typical gastrula is the fact that the middle layer of the trilaminar blastoderm begins to develope from the margins of the invagination. But in this respect again there is a differ- ence, for whereas in the simplest and most typical forms, such as Sagitta amongst invertebrates, and Amphioxus amongst vertebrates, the middle layer (mesoblast) originates as a pair of hollow protrusions of the primitive entodeim (coelom-invaginations of Hertwig, figs. 28, 29) ; in mammals and birds it makes its first appearance in the form of solid outgrowths from the primitive streak.'* Other views concerning- the g'astrulation of vertebrates.—Kupffer regards the part 1 Also, according to Hofmann, to some extent in elasmobranch fishes. 2 No layer corresponding with Rauber’s layer of the mammal is known to exist in lower vertebrates, unless that layer is to be regarded as the homologue of the external (corneous) stratum of the epiblast, which is found at a later stage in fishes and amphibia. 8 Riickert has described an imperfect form of ccelom-invagination in elasmobranch fishes, and Hertwig in amphibia.