DEVELOPMENT OF SPECIAL PARTS OF THE BRAIN. 63 While these changes are going on in its walls the embryonic brain docs not remain straight as at first, with its axis in a line with that of the spinal cord, but undergoes certain flexures (fig. 70), the general result of which is to bend the anterior end towards the ventral surface. The first of these flexures to make its appearance is a sharp bend opposite the base of the mid-brain and around the ante- rior end of the notochord. The result of this flexure, which produces a complete doubliug round of the anterior part of the brain, is that the mid-brain is for a time the most prominent part of the encephalon. Later, the growth of the cerebral vesicles, and of the thalamencephalon, brings these parts again into prominence, and tends to obscure the flexure, which is, however, never actually obliterated. The second cerebral flexure, which is also very sharp and well marked, occurs in the region of the hind-brain (pons Yarolii). It is in the opposite direction to the first one, its concavity being directed towards the dorsum of the embryo, and it produces the appearance of a deep depression at the part of the brain where it occurs. The third flexure is a more gradual one. It occurs at the junction of the hind-brain with the cord, the embryonic medulla oblongata being bent ventralwards from the line of direction of the medulla spinalis. The result of these flexures is that the axis of the embryonic brain takes a crook- shape, passing from the end of the spinal axis at first ventral, then dorsal, and then again ventral, finally bending sharply backwards towards its termination at the foramen of Monro. The second and third flexures become eventually almost entirely obliterated with the further growth of the brain. FURTHER DETAILS REGARDING THE DEVELOPMENT OF SPECIAL PARTS OF THE BRAIN. The fifth cerebral vesicle: bulbar vesicle, or metencephalon.—This part of the embryonic brain, afterwards to become the medulla oblongata, often shows at its first appearance—especially in the chick—a series of slight constrictions (fig. 68), which have by some been taken to indicate a segmentation of the neural tube. But even where they occur they are quite temporary, and the fifth vesicle soon becomes a well marked dilatation opening out from the anterior end of the embryonic spinal cord. Its wall, like that of all the other cerebral vesicles, is composed of cells similar to those of the rest of the neural tube, and the histogenetic changes which occur to form the nervous tissue are also entirely similar. Sections across this part of the neural tube are of a compressed oval outline in the lower part (fig. 71, a, b), but in the upper part, which afterwards becomes the lower part of the fourth ventricle, the thinning out and lateral expansion of the dorsal wall of the tube gives to sections of this and the next (fourth) vesicle the shape of an irregular triangle, or shield, the base of the triangle being directed towards the dorsum (roof) and the sides bent more or less sharply inwards about their middle to unite with one another ventrally at the apex of the triangle (figs. 72, 73). This bend serves to mark a division of each side of the tube into two parts, a dorso-latcral and a ventro-lateral, which correspond, both in their situation and in their relationship to afferent and efferent nerves, with the alar and basal laminae of the embryonic cord (p. GO), with which they are in fact continuous. The thinning out and lateral expansion of the roof in the region of the fourth ventricle tends to open up the angle which the ventral laminae form with one another, and to throw the dorsal laminae more to the side, so that what weie pic\iously the lateral boundaries of the neural tube come to occupy the so-called floor of the fourth ventricle, and since in this region the roof becomes