FORMATION OF MESOBLASTIC SOMITES. .37 vr o rover tebree, on the supposition (now known to be erroneous) that they are the rudiments of the future vertebrfe; they are more appropriately termed the mesoblastic somites. Fig. 39.—Transverse section through the dorsal region op an embryo chick op 45 hours. (From Balfour.) A, epiblast; C, hypoblast ; Me, medullary canal ; Pv, protovertebra or mesoblastic somite ; Wd, intermediate cell-mass in which the Wolffian duct is becoming formed ; So, somatopleure ; Sp, splanchnopleure ; pp, pleuro-peritoneal cavity (coelom) ; op, inner margin of area opaca ; w. thickened hypoblast of area opaca ; ao, left primitive aorta ; v, blood vessels ; cli, notochord. In Amphioxus (figs. 28,29), the protovertebras are formed in common with the body cavity, and are successively separated off from before backwards from the coelomic fold as hollow cuboid somites, each of which extends upwards around the neural canal and downwards along the sides of the alimentary canal, and subsequently divides into a dorsal or paraxial part which forms the protovertebras, and a ventral part which forms the lateral mesoblast. At first the hollow somites communicate individually with the alimentary cavity, but they become shut off from this long before the division which has just been mentioned. The ventral segments run together eventually, to form a continuous serous cavity. In sections of bird or mammalian embryos (fig. 39), the protovertebras, although on the whole compact masses of meso- blast, yet often show a tendency to have their central cells loosely arranged, so as to give the appearance of an irregular cleft in their interior, and sometimes a definite cavity is formed in them, which may even be continuous with the coelomic cleft in the lateral mesoblast. Pro to vertebrae begin to be marked off in the paraxial mesoblast, a short distance from the anterior end of the neural groove, in what will eventually become the cervical region of the embryo. They are produced in succession from before back- wards, one or two only being at first visible on either side, and others being gradually added as the embryo grows in length, until a large number may at length be counted, extending from immediately behind the cephalic region to the region of the primitive streak. Cerebral vesicles.—Meanwhile a change of importance has taken place in connection with the anterior end of the neural groove, which has become enlarged, and soon exhibits a succession of highly characteristic median dilatations, separated from one another by slight constrictions (fig. 40). These dilatations, at a later stage, after they have become roofed in, along with the rest of the neural groove, are known as the cerebral vesicles. There is at first a simple enlargement, and behind this two others form in succession, so that the primary vesicles are three in