78 CRANIAL E Eft YES. sensory root of the trigeminus, which thus forms the white bundle known as the ascending root of the fifth, but which in its actual growth is descending ; and also with the afferent fibres of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus which grow downwards in the medulla to foim the so-called solitary bundle.1 These are traceable in the adult as far down as the middle and lower cervical region respectively, but in the embryo are at first quite short, and limited to near the place of attachment of the Fig. 90, A and B.—Sections ackoss the hind-bkain of a human embryo, 10 mm. long. (His.) «>. In A, the origin of the spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves is shown, the fibres of both arising from groups of neuroblasts in the basal lamina of the neural tube. In B, one of the roots of the hypo- glossal is still seen, and in addition the root of the vagus nerve. This is represented as in part arising like that of the spinal accessory in A, from a group of neuroblasts in tire basal lamina, and in part from a bundle of longitudinally coursing fibres placed at the periphery of the alar lamina, and corresponding in situation to the commencing posterior white columns shown in fig. 87. nerve roots, becoming gradually longer as development proceeds. The solitary bundle is at first superficial, like the ascending root of the fifth, but it subsequently becomes covered in by the bending over of the alar plate, and the formation of nervous sub- stance in this. The ganglion-rudiments from which the ingrowth of these afferent fibres takes place, become the Gasserian ganglion of the fifth, and the jugular ganglia of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus. The auditory nerve-roots appear also to be formed by an ingrowth from the cells of its ganglion-rudiment into the alar plate. Subsequently the ganglion-rudiment becomes subdivided into three parts, one forming an intracranial ganglion, and the others giving rise to the branches of the nerve to the cochlea and vestibule respectively (fig. 90, C). The part belonging to the cochlea (ganglion cochleas) forms ultimately the spiral ganglion; while the one on the vestibular branch forms the gangliform swelling of Scarpa. 'From a separated part of the ganglion cochlea; the nerve to the posterior semicircular canal passes, as well as that to the macula of the saccule ; from the vestibular ganglion the nerves to the other ampullae and to the utricle, are derived. The geniculated ganglion of the facial is derived from the same ganglionic 1 These bundles, therefore, are homologous with the rudiments of the posterior white columns which arc derived from the ingrowing fibres of the spinal ganglia (v. antea, p. 74).