25 PARABLAST THEORY OF HIS. J. 3 3 0 o p £ Before proceeding to describe the commencing development of the embryo it will be instructive to enumerate the parts which are formed respectively from the three blastodermic layers. The following is the relation given in tabular form > The whole of the nervous system, including not only the central organs (brain and spinal cord), but also the peripheral nerves and sympathetic. The epithelial structures of the organs of special sense. The epidermis and its appendages, including the hair and nails. The epithelium of all the glands opening upon the surface of the skin, including the mammary glands, the sweat glands, and the sebaceous glands. The muscular fibres of the sweat glands. The epithelium of the mouth (except that covering the tongue and the adjacent posterior part of the floor of the mouth, which is derived from hypoblast), and that of the glands opening into it. The hypophysis cerebri. The enamel of the teeth The epithelium of the nasal passages, of the adjacent upper part of the pharynx, and of all the cavities and glands opening into the nasal passages. The epithelium of the anus and immediately adjacent part of the rectum. The epithelium of the vagina and of the urethra. The urinary and generative organs (except the epithelium of the urinary bladder and urethra). All the voluntary and involuntary muscles of the body (except the muscular fibres of the sweat glands). The whole of the vascular and lymphatic system, including the serous membranes and spleen. The skeleton and all the connective tissue structures of the body. O r- 'll s o o 32 ^ o -C TJ1 3 J* £ "f / The epithelium of the alimentary canal from the back of the mouth almost to anus, and that of all the glands which open into this part of the alimentary tube. The epithelium of the Eustachian tube and tympanum. The epithelium of the bronchial tubes and air sacs of the lungs. The epithelium lining the vesicles of the thyroid body. The epithelial nests of the thymus. v The epithelium of the urinary bladder. the PARABLAST THEORY OP HIS. MESENCHYME THEORY OP HERTWIG. The observations of His upon the development of the blood and connective tissues in the bird led him to regard these tissues as originating, not from the mesoblast which in the chick grows out from the sides of the primitive groove, but from cells which, Fig. 27.—Vertical section through the blastoderm of a hen's egg taken near the periphery. (Strieker.) E, epiblast; //, hypoblast, passing at the periphery into an undifferentiated mass of yolk, A, containing large cells tilled with yolk granules ; M (towards the centre of the blastoderm), mesoblast ; M (nearer the periphery), granular cells, apparently derived from A, and lying between the epiblast and hypoblast. originating either in the yolk or in the thickened rim of the spreading blastoderm, wander in centripetally between the primary layers and fill up all the interstices of the centr if u gaily- growing true mesoblast. These in-wandering cells being derived, not like the other cells of the embryonic area from the more active primarily differentiated central parts of the blasto- derm. but from the peripheral non-embryonic portion, were collectively named by His j/arnmast, and the tissues (blood and blood-vessels, and all the connective tissues) supposed to be formed from them were termed parnhlastie (all the other tissues of the embryo being termed, in contra-distinction, arcliiblastic'). His's theory was enunciated as long ago as 1868, although he afterwards introduced into it certain modifications. For a considerable time it met with little acceptance, but of