32 THE NOTOCHORD. produce the groove which is enclosed between them. The groove which is thus early formed in front of, but not, as was formerly supposed, in continuity with the primitive groove (Dursy), is no less than the rudiment of the whole central nervous system, and it is accordingly known as the neural or medullary groove, the folds which bound it being termed the medullary folds. By the time that the neural groove is formed, the mesoblast has generally extended forwards from either side of the primitive streak, burrowing between the epi- and hypoblast, and as the folds become developed, this mesoblast fills up the space below the epiblast, triangular in section, which each fold encloses, so that on either side of the neural groove there is now a longitudinal thickening of mesoblast, entirely separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the meeting of epi- and hypoblast at the bottom of the neural groove (fig. 31), and gradually thinning otf laterally into what is known as the Fig. 33.—Middle of the section shown in fig. 31, MAGNIFIED TO SHOW THE DETAILS OF ITS STRUCTURE. (E. A. S.) ep, me, hy, m.rj.. as above ; nek, notochordal thickening of median hypoblast. lateral plate of mesoblast. These two longi- tudinal thickenings of mesoblast give origin to most of the muscular and skeletal tissues of the body ; they form what may be termed the paraxial as distinguished from the lateral meso- blast. Somewhat later the medullary folds become bent over the neural groove, and meet one another in the middle line (fig. 32). Here they blend together, and the groove becomes converted into a canal—the neural canal. Of the two layers of epiblast which are formed from the folds, one is now the roof of the canal, the other is the epiblast of the dorsal surface of the embryo. The layers are at first in contact with oue another, but subsequently mesoblast passes between them (forming the membrana reunions superior of Remalc). The closure of the neural groove begins iu the posterior cephalic region, and thence extends forwards and backwards. Notochord.—Running along the bottom of the neural groove there may soon be seen, vrhen the blastoderm is viewed from above, a linear shading, which appears to start from the anterior end of the primitive streak and passing forwards becomes gradually lost towards the anterior end of the neural groove. Transverse sections across the latter show that this appearance of shading is due to a longitudinal thickening of the hypoblast along the middle line (fig. 33) ; the central cells of this layer becoming enlarged and gradually separating themselves off to form a rod- like column, which lies between epi- and hypoblast just below the neural groove (fig. 32, ch). When so separated, the column is known as the chorda dorsalis, or notochord, a structure which, along the middle line of the early embryo, replaces the mesoblast, and which is at first, as before said, continuous with the united epi- and hypoblast at the anterior end of the primitive streak. The actual separation of the notochordal cells from the hypoblast occurs first a little behind the anterior end of neural groove, and progresses backwards, although the hypoblastic thickening occurs first at the posterior end of the neural groove and is in fact directly continuous with the united column of epiblast and hypoblast which forms the anterior end of the primitive streak. The neurenteric canal passes through the thickened posterior extremity of the notochord, where this is continuous with the anterior end of the primitive streak (see fig. 31). It is continued in mammals a short distance along the notochord as a canal (prolonged forwards into a groove) (fig. 31, 5), which has been