55 SEPARATION OP THE DECIDUA AT BIRTH. as to produce a partial blockage of these veins, preparatory to the detachment of the placenta from the layer. The villi do not at first cover the whole surface of the ovum, but are deficient at the embryonic, and perhaps also at the opposite, pole. In the earliest human ovum which has hitherto been described, that of Reichert (fig. 58), the villi, which are quite simple, occur in a broad zone around the circumference of the ovum, leaving the (somewhat flattened) poles smooth and free from villi, and on one of these poles a thickening of the wall of the vesicle could be detected, which was probably the embryonic area. But in all other early human ova which have been noticed, the chorion, which is now formed by the false amnion, is covered with ramified villi (shaggy chorion), and these are already vascularized from the allan- tois, and have grown into the sub- stance of the decidua reflexa and the decidua serotina, the formation of the placenta having already begun. Separation of the decidua at birth, and regeneration of the uterine mucous membrane.—In parturition, the pressure of the contracting muscular walls upon the uterine contents, and especially upon the amniotic fluid, causes a bulging of the membranes (consisting of the combined deciduae, the chorion, and the amnion) through the os uteri. When the membranes are ruptured, the amniotic fluid first escapes, and subsequently the foetus is expelled. With further contraction of the uterus, the placenta becomes detached from the uterine wall, separating along the plane of the dilated parts of the glands (stratum spongio- nutn of the decidua serotina), and as it is expelled, the separation extends around the decidua lining the rest of the uterus, which appears in the “ after-birth ” along with the chorion and amnion as a thin membranous skirt to the edge of the placenta. The deepest part of the decidua containing the bases of the uterine glands is everywhere left in connection with the muscular tissue, and from these basal portions of the glands, first the whole of the uterine glands, and subsequently the lining epithelium of the uterus become gradually regenerated. RECENT LITERATURE. Allen, W., Omphalo-metenteric remains in mammals. Journ. Anat. and Physiol., xvii., 1883. Beneden, Ed. van, De la fixation du blastocyste d la muqueuse uterine chez le murin (Vesper- tiliO murinvs). Bullet, de l'Acad. roy. de Belgique, Ser. iii., T. xv.; De la formation ct de la constitu- tion d/u placenta chez le murin (Vesper tilio murinus). Bulletins de l’Acad. roy. de Belgique, T. xv., 1888. Beneden, E. v , et Julin, Rechcrchcs sur la formation dcs annexes foctalcs chezlcs mammiferes. Arch, de biologie, v. 1884. ' Bonnet, R., Die Ltirinmileh und Hire Bedeutunij fiir die Frucht. Be it rage zur Biologie, 1882 ; Die Eihaute dcs Pferdcs. Yerhandl. d. anat. Gesellschaft, 1889. Bumm, Zur Kenntniss der Uteroplacentaryefdsse. Archiv f. Gynakologie, xxxv., xxxvii. ; Zur Anat. d. Placenta. Wurzburg Sitzungsb., 1889. Cadiat, L’allantoide. Gaz. med. dc Paris, 4 ser. vi., 1887. Caldwell, "W. H., On the arrangement of the embryonic membranes in marsupial animals. Quarterly Journal of Microsc. Science, xxiv., 1884. Colucci, 0-., Di alcuni nevi dati cli struttura della placenta umana, 1887.