44 FORMATION OF THE ALLANTOIS. although they minister to its protection and nutrition, take no part in the formation of any of its organs. But the case is different with the structure next to be described, viz., the allantois, a part of which does in fact eventually become converted into portions ol the urinary and generative systems, although the greater part is also extra-embryonic, its function being to minister, through its accompanying blood-vessels, to the nutritive and respiratory exchanges of the foetus. The time ol development of the allantois seems to vary much in mammals, and there is reason to believe that it is found in the human embryo at a very early period—indeed the earliest human embryos that have hitherto been described already possess an allantois. In most animals in which its development has been studied the allantois has been found to begin as a hollow prolongation of the posterior end of the primitive alimentary canal (fig. 46). It soon, however, becomes relatively Fig. 46.—Longitudinal section through the posterior end op an embryo rabbit, showing the OUTGROWTH OP THE ALLANTOIS. (Kolliker.) h, epiblast of trunk ; dd, hypoblast ; m, medullary or neural canal ; ch, notochord ; hd, commencing hind-gut, which is becoming formed by a folding-over of the tail end of the embryonic blastoderm, v ; ed, blind end of hind gut; al, allantois growing out from hind gut into aw, mesoblastic thickening ; e, epithelium of yolk sac ; df, splanchnopleure ; hp, somato-pleure passing superiorly into am, tail fold of amnion ; s, is placed within the cavity of the amnion, and denotes the tail end of the embryo. shifted in position so as to come off from the ventral wall of the hind-gut, growing into the posterior extension of the mesoblastic cleft and eventually into the space between the false and true amnion, and carrying along with it its mesoblastic covering (figs. 36, 45). It is therefore composed eventually of two parts, viz., (1) a hypo- blastic sac which communicates, at first widely but afterwards by a narrowed orifice, with the hind-gut, and (2) an investment of mesoblast. This last is usually greatly thickened and very vascular, and is directly supplied with blood by two arteries (allantoic or umbilical arteries), which appear at first as a direct continuation of > the primitive aortic. As the allantoic vesicle expands into the cavity of the false amnion, it carries the vascular mesoblast along with it, so that this mesoblast is thus brought to the inner surface of the chorion, over which its blood-vessels then spread so as to convert this hitherto non-vascular membrane into one which is richly supplied with blood-vessels. The chorion has grown in the form of ramified villi into the substance of the uterine mucous membrane or decidua even before this advent of the vascular tissue of the allantois, but the chorionic villi now receive blood-vessels and thus become vascularized, the interchanges between the foetal and maternal vascular systems, which are afterwards confined to one region only of the chorion and decidua—that which forms the placenta—occurring in the first instance over the whole superficies of the ovum.