ATTACHMENT OF THE OVUM TO THE DECIDUA. r>o arborescent tuft of villi continuous with the foetal chorion, and traversed by blood- vessels which are supplied from the branches of tlie umbilical arteries. These blood-vessels form a capillary loop in each villus, and these capillary loops are separated from the maternal blood in the placental sinuses not oidy by the capillary walls and the connective tissue of the villus, but also by a double layer of flattened epithelium-like cells derived either from the chorionic epithelium (Minot),1 or from the decidual tissue, and, perhaps, in part representing an endothelial membrane belonging to the placental sinuses, which, according to Waldeyer, are lined by endo- thelium prolonged from that of the uterine vessels. Some of the chorionic villi arc attached (1) by comparatively stout bands of fibrous tissue to the basal stratum of the substance both to one another and to the septal prolongations of the decidua; others hang freely into the placental sinuses. These sinuses are supplied directly with arterial blood from tortuous branches of the uterine arteries which pass through the Fig. 55.—Diagram showing the tissues covering THE VILLI IN THE HUMAN PLACENTA, AND THEIR RELATION TO THE DECIDUA ACCORDING to Turner. F, foetal tissue ; M, maternal tissue ; cl, blood- vessels in villus; cl', blood in placental sinus ; c', layer of cells covering villus ; a:, basement mem- brane covering villus (? endothelium) continued from uterine vessels ; ds, decidua serotina; t, tissue uniting villus to decidua ; ccc, up, uterine vessels opening into sinus. decidua, (2) by finer bands of similar arnnlon chorion, : i Fig. 56.—Diagram of the placenta (E. A. S.). s, placental sinus ; ds, decidua serotina ; sp, spongy layer; m, muscularis; a, v, uterine artery and vein opening into placental sinus. spongy stratum of the decidua serotina and through the basal stratum of the placenta to open into the sinuses without the intervention of capillaries. From the sinuses veins, which run very obliquely through the decidua, carry oil the blood, and eventually pass into the veins of the muscular wall. The foetal villi are thus bathed by slowly flowing maternal arterial blood, and respiratory and nutritive exchanges may occur between the two kinds of blood, but there is no actual mixing 1 Minot describes both the villi and the sinuses of the placenta as bounded by the chorionic epithelium. This would agree very well with recent observations in the bat, hedgehog, and other mammals, which show that these spaces are originally developed in hypertrophied epiblast (sec next page).