71 THE FIRST CEREBRAL VESICLE. The commissures of the cerebral hemispheres are also formed in the united portion of the mesial walls of the vesicles ; the anterior is the earliest to appear, thus coinciding with the early appearance of the corpora striata, which it unites in front. The anterior part of the fornix, with its pillars, and the corpus albicans (which is at first single and median) are next formed, followed at a later period by the posterior pillars, which are seen running backwards on each side into the cornu ammonis as soon as this structure becomes distinct. The corpus callosum is the last of the commissures to be formed. Its anterior part appears first, but as the hemispheres extend backwards the formation of the commissure accompanies the backward extension. The olfactory lobes are formed as hollow outgrowths from the lower and lateral parts of the hemisphere vesicles (figs. 70, 74). In man they soon show a division into two parts, an anterior and posterior ; of which the latter remains in close connection with the hemisphere vesicle, while the anterior grows out towards Fig. 80.—The surface of the foetal brain at six months. (R. Wagner.) This figure shows the formation of the principal fissures. A, from above ; B, from the left side F, frontal lobe ; P, parietal ; 0, occipital; T, temporal ; a, a, a, slight appearance, of sulci in the frontal lobe ; s, Sylvian fissure ; s', its anterior division ; within it, C, the central lobe ; r, Rolandic sulcus ; p, parieto-occipital fissure. Fig. 81.—View of the inner surface of the right half of the fcetal brain of about six months. (Reichert.) F, frontal lobe ; P. parietal; 0, occipital; T, temporal ; I, olfactory bulb; II, optic nerve ; fp, calloso marginal fissure ; p,p', parts of the parieto-occipital fissure: h, calcarine fissure; g, g, gyrus fornicatus; c, c, corpus callosum ; s, septum lucidum ; /, placed be- tween the middle commissure and the foramen of Monro ; v, in the upper part of the third ventricle ; v\ in the back part of the third ventricle ; v", in the lower part of the third ventricle above the infundibulum ; r, recessus pinealis ; pv, pons Varolii; C'c, cerebellum. the olfactory area of the external epiblast. After the first month these lobes are idatively small m size and their cavities become gradually obliterated, but in some anima s, as in ie ioise, they aic large, and their cavities are permanently in communication with the anterior cornua of the lateral ventricles. Their further development is given subsequently (p. 7«i). ,.,.,„r“Tti0n ,°f,the *ssures and convolutions. - The enlargement of the mum does not always keep pace with the growth in extent of the walls of the