100 (ESOPHAGUS, STOMACH, AND INTESTINES. !iTJ°h ’.S llU0Wl\ m m<*ogastrium and the parts attached to the future colon and u rmn aic termed respectively mesocolon and mesorectum. The stomach begins to assume its characteristic shape while still lying with its longitudinal axis "in the Jog. 120.~Fkont view or alimentary canal, rather less advanced in DEVELOPMENT THAN THAT SHOWN IN FIG. 125, J). (His.) >•> . , T*!c l,llal'-vilx and uPPer part of oesophagus, and termination of the ktw intestine are not represented. Lettering us in fig. 125. ^ median plane of the body ; it is then seen that the mesogastrium passes to its greater curvature (fig. 127), which, therefore, is that corresponding to the mesenteric border of the intestine And as the pyloric extremity of the stomach and lesser curva- ture are tilted forwards and upwards, and at the same time the whole organ turns over on its right side, the mesogastrium becomes proportionally lengthened to permit of this change of position, and the right surface of the stomach (now posterior) lests against the anterior surface of what was previously the right side of the mesogastrium, the mesogastrium thus coming to form the posterior boundary of the omental sac (fig. 128). bioni near its attachment to the stomach a free fold subsequently grows over the intestines, and becomes the great omentum. The gastro-hepatic omentum is formed by the gradual thinning of a mass of mesoblastic tissue which from the first connects the ventral wall of the stomach with the anteiior wall of the abdomen, and within which the hypoblastio outgrowth Fig. 127.—Diagram of the mesentery, stomach and intestine of a human embryo of six weeks. (Toldt.) st, stomach; g.c, greater curvature; l.c, smaller curvature; mg, mesogastrium; spl, spleen; p, pancreas ; c, c;eeum ; r, rectum ; me, mesentery; ao, aorta ; cl, coeliac axis; s.mcs.a, i.mcs.ci, supe- rior and inferior mesenteric arteries. Fig. 128.—Diagram of a section across the abdomen of a human embryo of the third month. (Toldt.) I, l, liver ; k, kidneys ; g.o, great omentum ; g'.o', omental sac ; s.o, small omentum. (The dotted line has not been carried quite far enough.) The other letters as in fig. 127. which forms the liver becomes developed. The part of this mesoblastic connexion which lies between the liver and stomach becomes the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum, and its free border which was at first directed downwards (caudalwards) becomes with the descent of the stomach directed anteriorly (ventrally), and eventu- ally with the turning of that organ laterally it also is directed towards the right, and thus comes to form the anterior boundary of the entrance into the omental sac.