158 THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. loft auricle as a free border beyond the place of union, and not unfrequently the union remains incomplete, so that a probe may be passed through the reduced aperture. In many cases a wider aperture remains for more or less of the first year of infancy, and in certain instances there is such a failure of the union of the valve as to allow of the continued passage of venous blood, especially when the circulation is disturbed by over-exertion, from the right to the left auricle, as occurs in the malformation attending the morbus coeruleus. THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. The development of the lymphatic system has been studied in the chick by Budge. Here there exist a network of lymphatics agreeing in their general distribution with the blood- vessels in the vascular area. This is the first lymphatic circulation ; a second one is formed later, corresponding with the allantoic circulation. The lymphatics of both systems communi- cate with the coelom, but only those of the second circulation communicate with veins. The lymphatics lie in the vascular area above and close to the blood-vessels, but are separated near the embryo by a layer of meso blast continuous with the splanchnopleure. . The method of development of lymphatic vessels and lymphatic glands is dealt with in the chapter on Histology. RECENT LITERATURE. Blascliek, A., Untersuchung iiber Ilerz, Pericard, Eiulocard und Pericardialhohle, Mittheil. aus dem embrvol. Institut der Universitiit Wien, 1885. Born, G., Entwicklung des Sdugethier-herzens, Arckiv f. ruikr. Anat., Bd. 33, 1889. Budge, A., Uhtersuchungen iiber die Entwickelung dcs Lymphsystems beim Hiihner embryo, Arch, f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abtheil., 1887. Fur stiff, J., Untersuchungen iiber die Entwickelung der primitiven Aorten mit besonderer Bcriicksichtigung der Bezichungen derselben zu den Anlagen des Herzens, Schriften herausgegeben von der Naturf. Gresellseh. bei der Univers. Dorpat, i., 1884. Greenfield, W. S., Case of malformation of the heart, <kc,, Journal of Anat. and Physiol., 1890. Hochstetter, F., Beitrage zur Entwickelungsgeschichtc des Vencnsystems der Amnioten, Morpholog. Jahrbuch, Bd. xiii., 1888. Mackay, J. Yale, The development of the branchial arterial arches in birds, with special refer- ence to the origin of the subclavicms and carotids, Philosophical Transactions, B, 1888. Marius, J., Quelques notes sur le d&vcloppcment du casur chez le poulet, Arch, de biol., 1889. Mayer, P., Ueber die Entwickelung dcs Herzens und der grossen Gefdssstdmme bei den Selachiern, Mitth. d. zool. Station zu Neapel, Bd. vii., 1887. Muller, Erik, Studien iiber den Unsprung der Gcfdssmuskulatur, Archiv. f. Anat. u. Physiol. Anat. Abtli., 1888. Rabl, C., Ueber die Bildung dcs Herzens der Amphibien, Morphol. Jahrbuch, 1886 ; Ueber die Bi/dung der Herzanlage, Wiener Medicin. Presse, 1886. Rose, C., Beitrage zur Entwickclungsgcschichte des Herzens, Dissert. Heidelberg, 1888, and Morphol Jahrb. xv. Riickert, J., Ueber den Unsprung dcs Hcrzcndothcls, Anat. Anzeiger, 1887 ; Ueber die Entstchung der endothclialen Anlagen dcs Herzens und der ersten Gefdssstdmme bei Sclachicr-Embryonen, Biolog. Centralb., Bd. viii., 1888. Schimkewitsch, W., Ueber die Identitat dcr Herzbild/wng bei den Wirbcl- und wirbcllosen Thieren, Zoolog. Anz., 1885. Schwink, F., Ueber die Entwickelung der Herzendothels der Amphibien, Anat. Anzeiger, 1890. Tiirstig, J., Mitthcilungcn iiber die Entwickelung der primitiven Aorten nach Untersuchungen an Huhnercmbryonen, Dissert. Dorpat., 1886. Van Bemmelen, J. F., Die Visceraltaschcn und Aortenbogcn bei Reptilien und Vogcln, Zool. Anzeiger, 1886. Zimmermann, W., Ueber ein zwischen Aorten- u. Puhnonalbogen gelegencn Ki-cmcnarlerienbogcn beim Kaninchen, Anat. Anzeiger, 1889.