Fig. 198, A.—Elements of the skull of an embryo pic, §-inoh long, viewed from below : semi-diagrammatic. (From Balfour after Parker.) pa.ch, parachordals ; nc, notochord ; au, otic capsule ; py, pituitary ; tr, trabeculae ; c.lr, cornu of the trabecula ; pn, prenasal cartilage; e.n, external nares ; ol, olfactory region ; p.pg, palato- pterygoid bar enclosed in the maxillo-pterygoid process ; mn, mandibular bar ; hy, byoidean bar : ili.lt, thyrohyoid bar; 7 a, aperture for facial nerve ; 8a, for glossopharyngeal; 8b, for vagus ; 9, for hypoglossal. Fig. 198, B.—Side view of the mandibular and hyoid arches in an embryo pig of 1| inch , in length. (From Balfour, after Parker.) tg, tongue ; rnk, Meckel’s cartilage ; ml, body of malleus ; mb, its manubrium or handle ; t.ty, tegmen tympani ; i, incus ; st, stapes ; i.hy, inter-hyal ligament ; st.li, stylo-hyal cartilage : h.h, hypohyal; bit basibranchial; th.h, rudiment of first branchial arch ; la, facial nerve. incvLs cartilage. short proc Tujoicl ccaixlctgc ULS Mechels cartilage- stop* £fS Fig. 199. Prepj. rations showing three stages of the cartilaginous bars of the 1st and 2nd arches in the embryo of the sheep. (Salensky ) pears, or in some animals may not be found at all. This bar is in all cases of less importance than the first two, from the proximal parts of which important struc- tures connected in lower verte- brates with the suspensory appa- ratus of the lower jaw, in the higher vertebrates with the ap- paratus for sound transmission to the internal ear are developed. Formation of the auditory- ossicles.—If the embryonic de- velopment of the bars is studied in man and other mammals, it is found that at a certain period of foetal life Meckel's cartilage is directly continuous with the car- tilaginous malleus, above which, and at first in direct continuity with it, is the cartilaginous incus (fig. 199) ; these two ossicles therefore appear as the enlarged and modified proximal end of Meckel’s cartilage. Somewhat later the incus becomes detached from the malleus, but the latter long remains in continuity with Meckel’s cartilage (fig. 200).