131 THE EXTERNAL ORGANS, Fig. 156.—Diagrams to show the development OF MALE AND FEMALE GENERATIVE ORGANS from a common type. (Allen Thomson.) A. Diagram of the primitive tiro-genital ORGANS IN THE EMBRYO PREVIOUS TO SEXUAL DISTINCTION. 3, ureter ; 4, urinary bladder ; 5, urachus ; ot, the genital ridge from which either the ovary or testicle is formed ; W, left Wolffian body ; w.w, right and left Wolffian ducts ; m.m, right and left Mullerian ducts uniting together and running with the Wolffian ducts in qc, the genital cord ; ug, sinus urogenitalis ; i, lower part of the intestine ; cl, cloaca; cp, elevation which becomes clitoris or penis ; Is, fold of integument from which the labia majora or scrotum are formed. B.—Diagram of the female type OF SEXUAL ORGANS. o, the left ovary ; po, parovarium (epoophoroa of Waldeyer); W, scat- tered remains of Wolffian tubes near it (paroophoron of Waldeyer); cl G, remains of the left Wolffian duct, such as give rise to the duct of Gartner, represented by dotted lines ; that of the right side is marked w ; f, the abdominal opening of the left Fallo- pian tube ; u, uterus ; the Fallopian tube of the right side is marked m ; g, round ligament, corresponding to gubernaculum; i, lower part of the intestine ; va, vagina ; h, situation of the hymen ; C, gland of Bartholin (Cowper’s gland), and immediately above it the urethra ; cc, corpus ca- vernosum clitoridis; sc, vascular bulb or corpus spongiosum ; n, nympha ; Z, labium ; v, vulva. C 7, C.—Diagram of the male type of SEXUAL ORGAN’S. t, testicle in the place of its original formation ; e, caput epididymis ; vd, vas deferens ; W, scattered remains of the Wolffian body, constituting the organ of Girftldes, or the paradidymis of Waldeyer; vh, vas aberrans ; m, Mullerian duct, the upper part of which remains as the hydatid of Morgagni, the lower part, represented by a dotted lino descending to the prostatic vesicle, constitutes the occasionally existing cornu and tube of the uterus masculinus ; g, the guberna- culum ; vs, the vesicula seminalis ; pr. the prostate gland ; C, Cowper’s gland of one side; cp, corpora cavernosa penis cut short ; sp, corpus spongiosum ure- thrae ; s, scrotum ; t', together with the dotted lines above, indicates the direction in which the testicle and epididymis de- scend from the abdomen into the scrotum. K 2