38 CEREBRAL VESICLES. number, but subsequently the most anterior (_fore-brain) and posterior (hind-brain') each forms two vesicles, whereas the middle vesicle (mid-brain) remains permanently undivided, hue vesicles are therefore then to be seen, and these give rise eventually Fig. 40.—Surface view of an early embr\to of the guinea pig showing the commencement op THE THREE PRIMARY CEREBRAL VESICLES (1, 2, 3) AS ENLARGEMENTS OF THE MEDULLARY GROOVE. Semi-diagrammatic. pr, primitive streak and groove. Fig. 41. — KabBIT EMBRYO OF THE 9TH DAY, FROM THE SURFACE. 2J. (Kolliker.) The medullary groove is enlarged anteriorly and the primary optic vesicles are growing out from the first cerebral enlargement. On either side of the head, the (double) tubular heart is seen. Bight pairs of protovertebrae arc formed. to the five fundamental divisions of the brain, while from the sides of the fore-brain the rudiments of the optic nerves and retinm grow out as hollow protrusions. Heart and vascular system.—While this change is progressing in the neural canal, and the proto vertebrae are becoming formed in the paraxial mesoblast, the first sign of a vascular system is beginning to make its appearance in the meso- blast on either side of the head in the form of a simple tubular vessel (fig. 41), which becomes developed in the splauclmopleure in this situation. As the splanchnopleural mesoblast and its accompanying hypoblast fold round on either side under the head to form the fore-gut, these two simple tubes necessarily come together in the middle line, and they then fuse together longitudinally to form a single tube, the primitive heart (fig. 38); this tube runs for a short distance in the mesoblast immediately under the fore-gut, and then divides into two branches, which pass laterally, so as to partially encircle the fore-gut, and thence course backwards along the body of the embryo on either side of the notochord. These two vessels form the primitive arteries (primitive aortic), the part of each which encircles the fore-gut as it passes dorsalwards being known as the first aortic arch. On the other hand, the posterior