DEVELOPMENT OF THE TONGUE; 1 03 The furcula gives rise to the epiglottis in front (above) the aryepiglottic folds on either side, and the arytenoid cartilages behind (below); the median groove in it leads to the entrance of the larynx. Laterally the 2nd arch passes into and forms the palatoglossal arch, and in the visceral cleft behind this the tonsil develops ; but the 3rd arch does not form the palato-pliaryngeal arch ; this is developed from the palatine outgrowths of the maxillary processes. The visceral arches were first described by Rathke, in 1S2G. They are often dis- tinguished as the pod-buccal visceral arches; certain parts in front of (above) the mouth A Fig. 121.—Similar views of the same parts in older embryos. (His.) A. B. \u T, tuberculura iinpar. being considered by some morphologists to represent pra-buccal arches. The visceral clefts, lying between the arches are, as has been stated, four in number. The first is often known as the hyoinandibular cleft: it is this one which is concerned with the formation of the Fig. 122.—Similar view in a considerably older EMBRYO, BUT LESS MAGNIFIED. (His.) Eustachian tube and middle ear as already de- scribed. The three remaining clefts, wThich repre- sent gill-slits of fishes and amphibia, appear, from the results of recent observations, to be closed in amniotic vertebrates at all periods of foetal life (see note on previous page). In some fishes the branchial arches and clefts are more numerous than in other vertebrates, and in a few the hyoid arch also develops a gill. Through each of the visceral arches an arterial arch derived from the aortic bulb passes from front to back reuniting dorsally in front of the notochord to form the aorta. In branchiate vertebrates, branches of these vessels are distributed to the gills. Cartilaginous bars pass, in most vertebrates, from the base of the skull into each visceral arch, and ossification occurring in or around them, form definite parts of the skeleton as will be afterwards described. In man and mammals these cartilaginous bars are only found in the first three visceral arches, unless the thyroid cartilage is to be regarded as representing the anterior (ventral) ends of the bar of the 4th arch (Callender). The fourth and fifth visceral arches may be considered as belonging to the neck rather than to the head, and the congenital fissures of the neck which sometimes occur as a mal- formation, and which usually open externally far down in the cervical region, have been regarded as due to persistence of one or more of the branchial clefts, shifted in position by the cervical elongation which takes place in later embryonic life. (Esophagus, stomach, and intestines.—Immediately behind the pharynx, the fore-gut contracts again to form the oesophagus, which, in the early embryo, corres- ponding with the imperfect development of the neck, is very short (figs. 123,125, A)