86 DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE. The development of the retina from the inner layer of the optic cup, has not been fully worked out. In its earlier stages it closely resembles in structure the wall of the cerebral vesicles, consisting of elongated epithelium-like cells, apparently arranged in several interlocking layers. Of these cells some become developed into nerve-fibres and nerve-cells (inner granules and ganglionic layer), others into susten- tacular tissue, similar to the neuroglia of the central nervous system (molecular layers, Mullerian fibres), whilst the outermost layer forms the sense-epithelium (W. Muller), or layer of outer granules, which is sharply marked off againBt the layer of hexagonal pigment cells by the membrana limitans externa, as is the nerve- fibre layer from the vitreous humour by the membrana limitans interna. For a long time there is no trace of the rods and cones. These begin to appear some little time before birth in man and most animals, but in animals which are born blind, such as kittens, not until after birth (M. Schultze), in the shape of small protuberances of the sense-epithelium cells growing beyond the limitans externa, and forming at first the inner segments of the rods and cones, and subsequently the outer segments also. The latter as they are developed become imbedded in the inner surface of the hexagonal pigment cells, which have become developed from the outer layer of the optic cup. The anterior third of the optic cup does not undergo the changes above r.t JV. 102. Section through the eye op a rabbit embryo, more advanced in development than that shown in pig. 98. (Balfour.) c, epithelium of cornea; l, lens; me.c, mesoblast growing in to form the substantia propria of the cornea ; of.«, optic nerve ; rt, retina ; a.c.r, mesoblast for the formation of the vitreous humour, and the arteria centralis retime. described. Its two layers become here developed into the comparatively simple pars ciliaris retinae, and in front of the ciliary region they extend forwards and inwards in front of the lens and in close contact with the back of the iris, where they form the thickly pigmented epithelium, which is known as the uvea and terminates at the margin of the pupil. Further development of the lens.—The hollow epiblastic vesicle from which the lens developes is composed of a thick posterior and a thin anterior layer which pass into one another at the equator of the lens, and enclose a clear fluid. In mammals, the vesicle when first formed also contains a small mass of epithelium colls which have become separated off from the posterior wall (fig. 100), but these