EMBRYOLOGY.1 By E. A. SCHAFER. GENERAL DEV ELOPMENT. FORMATION OF THE BLASTODERM. STRUCTURE OF THE OVUM AND CHANGES PRIOR TO SEGMENTATION. The human body with all its tissues and organs is the product of the development of a single nucleated cell, the egg-cell, germ-cell, or ovum, which is formed within the principal reproductive organ of the female or ovary. The commencement of development is preceded by certain changes in the ovum, which usually occur soon after its discharge from the ovary, and consist (1) in the emission of certain constituents of the nucleus which form the so-called polar globules ; (2) in the accession of the nucleus of a sperm-cell or spermatozoon, which is formed within the reproductive organ of the male (testicle), and which, blending with the remaining part of the nucleus of the ovum, appears to take the place of the part which was discharged in the form of the polar globules. An account of the structure of the ovum, and of the manner in which the above changes are effected, may therefore appropriately precede the description of the actual course of development of the ovum. Structure of the ovarian ovum.—The human ovum resembles that of all other mammals (with the exception of monotremes) in its minute size. Immediately before the time of its discharge from the Graafian follicle of the ovary in which it has been formed, it is a small spherical vesicle measuring about i^th inch (-2 mm.) in diameter, and is just visible as a clear speck to the naked eye. When it is examined with the microscope, it is found to be invested by a comparatively thick, clear covering. This, when the centre of the ovum is exactly focussed, has the appearance in optical section of a clear girdle or zone encircling the ovum (fig. 5), and was hence named zona pellucida by von Baer (1827). But on more careful examination with higher magnifying powers, and especially by the examination of sections, there is not much difficulty in making out the existence of striae passing radially through the membrane (fig. 6, zp). On this account, and especially since a similar radially striated membrane forms a characteristic part of the investment of the ovum in many animals belonging to widely different classes, it is more convenient, in place of the name zona pellucida, which has been exclusively used to designate this investment in mammals, to employ the more general term zona radiata, or to 6peak of it simply as the striated membrane of the ovum. The zona radiata of the mammalian ovum is sufficiently tough to prevent the escape of the contents of the ovum, even when subjected to a considerable amount of pressure. If, however, the pressure be excessive, the tunic splits, and the soft 1 It is mainly owing to tlie researches of His, published principally in the important monograph “ Anatomie menschlicher Embryonen ” (Leipzig, 1880-1885), that our knowledge of the development of Ihe human embryo is now far more complete than was the case when the last edition of this work was undertaken, and we are therefore able to keep more closely than was before possible to the human species in following the course of development of the ovum. For the elucidation, however, of many of the details of development, especially in its earlier Btages, it will still be necessary to refer continually to facts which have been made out only from the study of the embryology of other mammals, as well as birds, reptiles, fishes, and even invertebrata.