CHANGES IN THE UTERUS. 46 in birds, and in some mammals, e.g. ruminants, this portion forms a large sac which occupies the greater part of the cavity of the false amnion, and is filled by fluid (allantoic fluid) in which many urinary products can be recognized. (The ducts of the embryonic renal organs open into the pedicle of the allantois.) But in most mammals the development of the hypoblastic sac is far less extensive, and in some, including the human embryo, the allantois is mainly represented by a large mesoblastic outgrowth carrying the allantoic (umbilical) vessels to the chorion. There is also considerable variation in the period at which the allantois begins to develop. In the human embryo it is certainly formed at a very early period, probably even before the amnion is completed. In the guinea-pig, also, it appears early, although after the amnion. In this animal it is first developed as a solid outgrowth of raesoblast which projects from the line of junction of the hinder end of the amniotic bag with the blastoderm, and before the formation of a hind gut or of any part of the alimentary tube, a hypoblastic diverticulum being altogether wanting. In the earliest human ova in which the allantois has been investigated, it is already a tube of hypoblast which forms a direct prolongation of the posterior end of the primitive alimentary canal (fig. 49, d), and is enclosed in a short stalk of mesoblast, by which the posterior end of the embryo is attached to the chorion, and through which, by the allantoic (umbilical) blood-vessels, the chorionic villi are freely supplied with blood. From the attachment of this stalk to the placenta (chorionic part), the hinder extremity of the amnion is reflected. The stalk in question is not the um- bilical cord, since it does not include the stalk of the yolk sac (vitelline duct), which only later becomes bound up with it. It is termed by His the abdominal stalk (Bauchstiel), the term allantois being by him restricted to the hypoblastic diverticulum. It is further considered by His to be probable that the human embryo never becomes completely detached from the chorion, but that it always retains its attachment to the outer membrane of the ovum at the hinder end, this abdominal stalk being regarded as a direct prolongation of the tail end of the embryo (fig. 49). If this should prove to be the case, the human ovum would form an exception to the usual rule of a complete separation of embryo from chorion at the formation of the amnion, and subsequent re-attachment by outgrowth of allantois. Changes in the uterus. Mode of attachment of ovum to uterus.1— The mucous membrane of the pregnant uterus is known as the decidua. It is thicker and more pulpy than in the ordinary non-pregnant condition, and the glands are longer in proportion, but it is otherwise of similar structure except in the part where the placenta is about to be formed ; here it undergoes important modifications. The ovum, which has been fertilized and has passed through the first stages of development in the Fallopian tube, although considerably larger than the undeveloped ovum, is still an extremely minute object when it reaches the uterus. Here it speedily becomes imbedded in the soft and thickened mucous membrane, and this is soon reflected over and completely encloses the ovum, which thus comes to lie in a cavity within the decidua which is altogether shut off by the reflected part from the true cavity of the uterus. Different names have been given to these parts of the uterine mucous membrane which immediately enclose the ovum to distinguish them from that which lines the original cavity of the uterus. Thus the layer of membrane which has grown around the ovum is known as the decidua reflexa; the part where the ovum first becomes attached to the uterus and where the placenta is afterwards formed, is the decidua serotina, while the membrane lining the true cavity of the uterus, is termed decidua vera (figs. 50, 51). With the subsequent growth and consequent expansion of the ovum the enclosing decidua reflexa expands also pari passu, encroaching more and more upon the true cavity of the uterus and coming into contact everywhere with the decidua vera. Eventually it blends entirely with the decidua vera, so that the two layers are indis- tinguishable and the original cavity of the uterus is obliterated (except at the cervix uteri). 1 The following account of the formation of the decidua; and of the placenta is confined as much as possible to what has been observed in the human subject. In other mammals important variations in the mode of attachment of the ovum and in the formation and structure of the placenta are found to occur.