121 SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. 'Wolffian body to take part in the formation of the suprarenal capsules have been derived by proliferation from the germinal epithelium.) It had long been believed that the two parts of these organs, cortical and medullary, are separate in origin ; the former being derived, as was thought, from cells which are of mesoblastic origin, the latter being developed in connection vvich%he sympathetic ganglia. In elasmobranchs and some other lower vertebrates, they Pig. 144.—Internal organs of a female human foetus of 3^ inches long, or about 14 weeks. Magnified (from Waldeyer). o, the ovary full of primordial ova ; c, tubes of the upper part of the Wolffian body forming the epoophoron (parovarium of Kobelt) ; W, the lower part of the Wolffian body forming the paroophoron ■of His and Waldeyer; v/, the Wolffian duct; M, the Mullerian duct, with its upper opening already fimbriated. Pig. 145.—Internal genital organs of a male human embryo of 3J inches long (from Waldeyer). t, body of the testicle with seminal canals formed ; e, epididymis, or upper part of Wolffian body ; W, Wolffian body, lower part, becoming paradidymis or organ of Giraldes ; w‘, Wolffian duct, becoming vas deferens ; g, gubernaculum. A B Pig. 146.—Two FIGURES EXHIBITING A COMPARISON BETWEEN PARTS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS IN the two sexes (from Farre, after Kobelt). A.—Adult ovary, parovarium and fallopian tube. a, a, Epoophoron (parovarium) formed from the upper part of the Wolffian body ; b, remains of the uppermost tubes, sometimes forming hydatids ; c, middle set of tubes ; d, som9 lower atrophied tubes ; c, atrophied remains of the Wolffian duct ; /, the terminal bulb or hydatid ; h, the Fallopian tube, originally the duct of Muller ; i, hydatid attached to the extremity ; Z, the ovary. B.—The adult testis and epididymis. a, a, convoluted tubes in the head of the epididymis developed from the upper part of the Wolffian •body ; b and /, hydatids in the head of the epididymis ; c, coni vasculosi; d, vasa aberrantia ; h, 'remains of the duct of Muller with i, the hydatid of Morgagni, at its upper end ; Z, body of the testis.