CHARACTERS OF BLASTODERMIC LAYERS. 524- luive applied the terms primitive ectoderm and primitive entoderm. Since the middle layer is developed from one or both of these primitive layers their permanent representatives are morphologically different, having lost the elements which go to form the middle layer, and it is therefore convenient to accentuate this distinction by the adoption of different terms to represent the permanent layers. The generalisation that the formation of a bilaminar blastodenn is typically produced by the invagination of a hollow spherical unilaminar blastodermic vesicle is due to Haeckel, and was based largely upon the important researches of Kowalevsky, especially those on Sagitta and Amphioxus. The process of delamination which in some animals produces the two primary layers was originally regarded by Ray Lankester as the typical mode of formation, but is now generally admitted to be a secondary modification. Finally, it has been shown (Balfour. Lankester. R. and 0. Hertwig), as is set forth below, that the ccelom or body cavity is typically developed, not by a process of splitting of the mesoblast (although in some animals this may occur as a secondary modification), but as hollow protrusions from the primitive alimentary cavity, the cells which bound these protrusions forming the mesoblast. Thus from an originally single blastodermic layer by successive processes of invagination or folding, the three permanent laminae are ultimately produced. Such folds may be regarded as formed mechanically by local hypertrophic multiplication of the cells of the laminae, an increased surface being thus found for the increased number of cells. In analogous manner the folds which accompany the formation and separation of the body and the development of the several organs, c.g., the nervous system, alimentary canal, amnion, may also be regarded as resulting mechanically from cell-multiplication. This mechanical theory of development was first enunciated by Pander, and has of late years been applied extensively by several embryologists, notably by His (Entwiclil. d. Uuhnchens, 1868, and Unsere Korperform, 1874), and Rauber. Characters of the blastodermic layers.—The three layers of the blastoderm show from the first distinctive characters (fig. 2G). The outer layer, or epiblast, is epithelial in nature and consists of somewhat irregularly columnar cells closely set p;cr_ 96.—Transverse section through the front end of the primitive streak and blastoderm of the chick. (From Balfour.) pr, primitive groove ; in, mesoblast; ep, epiblast; hy, hypoblast. side by side, forming a single stratum for the most part, except near the middle line, and becoming thinner and flatter towards the margins of the embryonic area. The inner layer or hypoblast is also epithelial, but the cells are at first all flattened, and appear therefore quite thin and linear in sections of the blastodenn. At a later stage, the hypoblast cells become markedly columnar and enlarged, so that they considerably exceed the epiblast cells in size. The middle layer, or mesoblast,1 which differs, as we have seen, in its mode ot origin, being formed secondarily from one or both of the primary layers, also differs from them entirely in its appearance and structure. Instead of consisting of cells closely joined together into a continuous membrane after the maunei of an epithelium, the mesoblast is at first composed of cells which are not thus closely arranged, but have, on the contrary, a considerable amount of intercellular fluid between them. They are most irregular in shape, and are often branched and united with one another, so that much of the mesoblast early resenules an embryonic connective tissue. * The mesoblast was by von Baer described as being formed of two layers, one derived by' gjittmg laminar (see p. 26).