4 INTRODUCTION. become greatly obscured. To the original segments in the embryo the terms protovertebra) viesoblastio somites or myotonies have been applied ; those segments or metameres which are traceable in the adult are often spoken of as vertebral segments. In the limbs, although there is strong reason for believing that they have originated as outgrowths of certain segments of the trunk, the repetition of such vertebral elements, and their primitive connection are greatly obscured. Homology. A certain agreement in structure, situation and connection of parts or organs constitutes what is called homology, and this term is generally employed to indicate the morphological identity of representative parts in different animals, which may be considered to have its cause in community of origin (homo- deny, Lankester), while the anatomical correspondence of parts which are repeated in the same animal may be more exactly distinguished as serial homology {homo- dynamy, Gegenbaur). Thus the arm-bone or humerus of a man is homologous (homogenetic) with the upper bone of the fore limb of a quadruped, or of the wing of a bird, while it is at the same time serially homologous (homodynamic) with the thigh bone of man himself, or any other vertebrate animal. It has farther been found convenient to express by the word analogy that kind of resemblance among the organs of animals which depends upon similarity of function, and although it may be accompanied by considerable agreement in structure, yet is not rendered complete by anatomical relation and connection : for example, the gills of a fish, of a crab, and of a mussel, serving the same function, are analogous organs, but in no sense homologous, as all morphological correspondence, or genetic relation, is wanting between them. Thus also, the upper limb of a man, the fore limb of a quadruped, the wing of a bird, and the pectoral fin of a fish are homologous but not analogous structures, the wing of a bat and the wing of a bird are both homologous and analogous, while the last is analogous to but not homologous with the wing of an insect. Symmetry of form.—A remarkable regularity of form pervades the organi- zation of certain parts of the body, especially the whole of the limbs, the head and neck, and the framework, at least, and external walls of the trunk of the body. Thus, if we conceive the body to be divided equally by a plane which passes from its dorsal to its ventral aspect (median plane), the two halves, in so far as regards the parts previously mentioned, correspond almost exactly with each other, excepting by their lateral transposition,—and the human body thus shows in a marked manner the character of lilateral symmetry. There is, however, a departure from this symmetrical form in the developed condition of certain of the internal organs, such as the alimentary canal from the stomach downwards, the heart and first part of the great blood-vessels, the liver, spleen, and some other viscera. Descriptive terms.—In the description of parts so numerous, so various in form, and so complex in their connections as those composing the human body, there is difficulty in finding terms which shall indicate with sufficient precision their actual position and their relation to the rest of the organism. This difficulty is farther increased by the exceptional erect attitude in which the trunk of the human body is placed as compared with the horizontal position in animals. Hence, a number of terms have long been in use in human anatomy which are understood in a technical or restricted sense. For example, the median plane, already referred to, bemg that by which the body might be divided into right and left lateral halves, and the middle or median line being that in which the median plane meets the surface of the body, the words internal and external are used to denote relative nearness to and distance from this plane on either side, and may be replaced by mesial and lateral. The terms sagittal, frontal, and coronal, are also used in indication of direction within the body : sagittal denoting a dorso-ventral direction in or parallel to the median plane, frontal or coronal a transverse direction perpendicular to that