07 THE second and third cerebral vesicles. region The third cerebral vesicle: mesencephalon: mid-brain.—In this no expansion of the vesicle with thinning of the roof occurs, as m the others but, on the contrary, the roof undergoes considerable thickening (fig. 74). About the thud month, this thickening becomes separated into two by a median groove. Ihese coi- respond with the corpora bigemina of lower vertebrates ; it is only m mammals that they become further subdivided by a transverse furrow. This appears m man about the fifth month, and the eminences, which are at first large in proportion to the size- Fig. 75.—Fcetal brain op thk THIRD MONTH. (His,) The brain is represented in profile, but the external vrall of the right hemisphere has been removed to show the interior of the lateral ventricle with the cor- pus striatum curving round the bend of the fossa of Sylvius. The curved projections above the cor- pus striatum are infoldings of the mesial wall of the hemisphere vesicle. The lettering as in fig. 74. of the brain, thus become the corpora guadrigemina. The fibres of the third nerve originate in the ven- tral lamina of this part of the neural tube: the teg- mentum and crusta become formed as thickenings along the same lamina : the vesi- cle itself becomes the aque- duct of Sylvius. In the constriction between the third and fourth vesicles (isthmus of His) the fourth nerve takes origin in the ventral plate of the neural tube. The second cerebral vesicle (thalamencephalon).—It is from this part of the neural tube that the primary optic vesicles are developed in the earliest period, and they are for some time in free communication with its cavity along the hollow optic stalks. But with the formation of the optic nerves and optic tracts, the stalks become solid, and are, moreover, connected posteriorly with the mid-brain by a prolongation backwards of the tracts. The optic thalamus of each side is formed by a thickening of the lateral wall of the vesicle (figs. 74, 78). The interval between the thalami forms the cavity of the third ventricle. Across it the grey commissure subsequently stretches. The floor becomes prolonged downwards into the infundibulum, and takes part in the formation of the pituitary body (figs. 69, 74). The roof, on the other hand, becomes like that of the fifth vesicle, thin and expanded, and remains as a single layer of flat epithelium cells inflected into the ventricle and subsequently occupied by vascular growths of pia mater (choroid plexus of third ventn'cle, fig. 69, c/j3). But at the posterior part of the roof there is a transverse thickening to form the posterior commissure, and in front of this the roof grows upwards and forwards, but subsequently backwards (in man) as a hollow median process to form the pineal gland (epiphysis cerebri). The median process soon takes on a tubular shape (fig. 69,pin), and, after a time, becomes branched, and forms a number of tubular follicles lined by ciliated epithelium, and invested by vascular pia mater. These follicles tend, in man and mammals, as development proceeds, to become solid and occupied by calcareous deposit. But in some reptiles the pineal F 2