DEVELOPMENT OF THE MOUTH. 100 The stomodseum deepens at its upper and anterior part, where it forms a pocket-like protrusion, which grows a certain distance into the angle formed by the sharp bend which the hinder part of the fore-brain now makes with the mid-brain. Fig. 117.—Profile view of a human embryo of about 15 days, with the alimentary canal SHOWN IN LONGITUDINAL SECTION. (His.) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, are opposite the respective secondary cerebral vesicles ; from the side of the fore-brain the primary optic vesicle is seen projecting ; ot. otic vesicle ; p.v., septum between mouth and pharynx (primitive velum) ; l, commencing liver in septum transversum ; v, vitelline stalk ; all, allantois enclosed within allantoic stalk ; j v., jugular vein ; c.v., cardinal vein ; s.r., sinus venosus within septum trans- versum ; u.a., umbilical (allantoic) artery; l.u.v., left umbilical vein ; end., endothelial tube of heart. The sharp curve of the trunk of the embryo towards the yolk-sac is normal at this stage. In fig. 117 the otic vesicle is still open, and there are only two aortic arches ; in fig. 118 the otic vesicle is closed ; there are now five aortic arches. The primitive velum has disappeared. Tin's pocket (Rathke) is the hypophysis cerebri, or pituitary involution of the buccal epiblast, and comes presently into connection with the infundibular protrusion of the neural epiblast, the two together forming the pituitary body (see p. G8). It lies just above and in front of the pharyngeal septum. The remains of this septum (when it has become broken through to allow of a communica- tion between stomodseum and fore-gut), have been termed the primitive velum, but the septum has nothing whatever to do with the formation of the permanent velum palati, or with the isthmus of the fauces. The plane of the septum forms in fact an angle with the plane of the future isthmus faucium, so that the primitive mouth or stomodseum does not by any means correspond with the permanent mouth. In fact the floor of the mouth, including the tongue, is developed lelrind the septum, and therefore in connection with the fore-gut rather than with the stomodfflum, whereas the uppermost part of the pharynx, including the clioame, is in front of the septum, and therefore belongs to the stomodieum. 3 ■rOt. s Fig. 118.—Similar view of a somewhat older embryo. (His.)