DEVELOPMENT OE THE FGETAL MEMBRANES. 4'0 attached to the uterine mucous membrane, and these villi subsequently become ramified and vascular when the growth of the allantois has brought the umbilical blood-vessels to the chorion ; but except in the placenta, they at length all become atrophied and disappear. It will be seen from the manner in which the true and false amnion are formed by a fold of somatopleure, that these membranes are composed of both epiblast and mesoblast. In the false amnion the epiblast becomes the outer layer ; in the true amnion it is the inner layer. The mesoblast of the one is separated from that of the other by a space occupied by fluid,1 and continuous with the coelom, with which /s<&m ( it" - "-NS 6 Fig. 45.—Diagram of a longitudinal section of a mammalian embryo, after the completion OF THE AMNION. in fact it remains continuous until the body walls of the embryo have entirely grown round and coalesced on the ventral surface—the final point of coalescence being the umbilicus. With this enclosing growth of the body walls the line of reflection of the amniotic fold is also carried downwards, so that the amnion is eventually attached around the umbilical cord, by which the foetus appears suspended in the amniotic fluid (fig. 50). In the guinea-pig, in which the epiblast is the innermost layer, the amnion is not formed as a fold, hut results from an extension of the mesoblastic cleavage around the dorsal aspect of the central cavity ; this cavity thus becomes the cavity of the amnion. Formation of the allantois.—Both the amnion and the chorion are entirely extra-embryonic structures, i.e., they are external to the body of the embryo, and, will be used throughout this article in the sense in which it has hitherto almost invariably been employed in human embryology, to denote that external membrane of the ovum from which the villi (chorionic villi) which grow into the uterine mucous membrane spring, and this it will be seen presently, is that part of the external investment of the blastodermic vesicle, which, when the amnion is formed, becomes the external amniotic fold or false amnion. 1 Except in the later stages of gestation, when the amniotic and chorionic mesoblast become loosely united by jelly-like connective tissue.