DEVELOPMENT OF THE MOUTH. 99 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. The early development of the primitive alimentary canal has already been briefly described in treating of the first formation of the embryo (pp. 34, 35), and it was there explained how the dipping downwards and inwards of the blastodermic layers on either side of the embryo tends to separate or pinch off the part of the blastodermic vesicle which is immediately underneath the body of the embryo as a distinct tube (mid-gut) from the remainder of the vesicle, which is now known as the yolk-sac, while at the same time similar changes occurring in front and behind produce the blind anterior and posterior extremities of the tube which are known as the fore- and hind- gut respectively. Although the downfolding in question eventually involves all the layers of the embryonic blastoderm, the epiblast and the part of the mesoblast which adheres to it, and together with it forms the somatopleure, do not participate in the process until after the formation of the amnion, so that the alimentary canal for some time after its formation is enclosed only by the hypoblast and its adherent mesoblast (splanchnopleure), and projects freely into the wide coelom or space between the splanchnopleure and somatopleure. The mid-gut also remains for a time in free communication with the yolk sac, although the communication becomes gradually narrowed into the vitelline duct. As the somatopleure afterwards grows down on either side of the alimentary canal, and becomes pinched in around the vitelline duct and stalk of the allantois, which are thus united into the umbilical cord, that part of the coelom which is within the body and around the alimentary canal becomes shut off as the pleuroperitoneal cavity from the remainder, which lies altogether outside the body, and forms the cavity of the false amnion. Development of the mouth and of the parts in connection with it.— The fore-gut terminates blindly at first underneath the head in the region of the Fig. 116.—Frontal view op the upper part op a human EMBRYO OF ABOUT FIFTEEN DAYS, RECONSTRUCTED FROM SERIAL SECTIONS. (His.) 4)’ The pericardium is opened to show the heart; between this and the fore-brain is seen the primitive buccal cavity. -A de- scription of this figure is given on p. 138. hind-brain, and the notochord, with the fore- and h mid-brain, curve downwards over the blind extre- mity, the fore-brain thus causing a rounded pro- minence in front of and ventral to the extremity of the alimentary tube (see fig. 45). With the develop- ment of the heart another prominence becomes^ formed on the ventral side of the fore-gut, a little “ further back. Between the two prominences, the one caused by the projection of the fore-brain and the other of the heart, a wide, shallow pit is enclosed (fig. 110), at the bottom of which the epiblast which lines it is in contact with the hypoblast of the fore-gut, and the two layers iuse to form an epithelial membrane, which now forms a septum between the primitive buccal epiblastic involution or stomodmum and the fore-gut (fig. 117 V.v.) This stage is met with in the human embrvo before the twelfth day (Mis)* •in the rabbit embryo at about the ninth day (Mihnlkovics), and in the chick on the lourth day.