122 THE MULLERIAN DUCT. consist throughout life of two separate portions, one median and single, the other, derived from the sympathetic ganglia, paired ; in birds, reptiles, and mammals these distinct portion- aie combined into the two paired organs (Balfour). But in these also, as has been shown by tf0r ™am™als> medullary or nervous part is at first distinct and outside the cortical, into which it gradually insinuates itself, retaining, however, its connection with the neighbouring sympathetic ganglia. The permanent kidneys arise (1) as protrusions from the posterior end of the Wolffian ducts (see fig. 125, C and D, W), which grow forwards towards the lower part of the Wolffian bodies, and form the ureters and the collecting tubules of the kidney ; (2) from a portion of the intermediate cell-mass situated posterior to the Wolffian body, and within which convoluted tubes and Malpighian coi’puscles, and eventually the remaining parts of the uriniferous tubules become developed. But before these changes occur in this intermediate cell-mass, it shifts its position relatively to the- Wolffian body, eventually coming to lie above and behind that organ. The con- voluted tubes, with their Malpighian corpuscles, appear to be developed independently of the ureter and collecting tubes, as in the case of the Wolffian tubules and the Wolffian duct, a communication between them being only subsequently established. The glomeruli are apparent in the eighth week in the human foetus. In the third month the papillte are formed, and in the fourth month the loops of Henle are seen. The tubes are wider in the foetus than in the adult ; the expansion of the- kidney as growth advances must therefore be due mainly to an increase in length of the tubules, since new tubules and glomeruli do not appear to be formed. The human kidney is at first lobulated, the lobules corresponding in number to the Malpighian pyramids, but by the end of the first year after birth, the kidneys have usually nearly lost their lobulated appearance. The urinary bladder is formed by a spindle-shaped dilatation of the stalk of1 the allantois (second month). The upper pole of the spindle extends as the urachus into the umbilical cord ; it not unfreqnently remains hollow for some length within the cord (Luschka). The lower pole of the spindle which passes towards the cloaca becomes the first part of the urethra of the male, and the whole of the urethra of the female. The rest of the male urethra is formed and enclosed by the folds of integument which produce the penis (see p. 128). The ureters, which are originally prolonged from and open into the Wolffian ducts, subsequently become shifted in position, so as eventually to open into the enlargement of the allantoic stalk, from which the bladder is formed. The Mullerian duct.—-In lower vertebrates, as was shown by Balfour for elasmobranchs, this duct takes origin by the splitting off of the ventral part of a. longitudinal segmental or Wolffian duct, the dorsal part remaining as the Wolffian duct proper, and receiving the segmental and uriniferous tubes, while the ventral part retains the funnel-shaped orifice, by which the segmental duct communicated ante- riorly with the body cavity, and comes to open posteriorly into the cloaca by an orifice distinct from that of the Wolffian duct (fig. 138 and fig. 147). In amniotic vertebrates, the process of formation of a Mullerian duct is somewhat different. It arises on the outer side of the already fairly well developed Wolffian body, and some little distance from the anterior end of that organ, as a thickening of the peritoneal epithelium (fig. 143, a'), which thickening becomes invaginated towards the adjacent Wolffian duct, in the form of three successive funnel-shaped depressions (fig. 148), somewhat similar to those which are connected with the previously formed Wolffian segmental tubes. The invaginations are connected together by a con- tinuous epithelial ridge, forming a cord which becomes disconnected from the peritoneal cavity except at the anterior invagination, and subsequently acquires a lumen. The short tube which is thus formed, soon begins to grow backward as a solid rod of cells, which comes in close contact as it proceeds with the Wolffian