75 CRANIAL NERVES. this area is the beginning of the posterior white column (fig. 87): the further course and attachments of the ingrowing fibres in the cord are not accurately known, but they appear to bifurcate and extend both upwards and downwards (Ramon y Cajal). rfhe peripherally directed fibres grow downwards and join the bundle of fibres of the anterior root, to form together with them the mixed spinal nerve (fig. 88). . The axis-cylinder processes which are to form the fibres of the anterior roots Pig. 86.—Bipolar cell from spinal ganglion of a 4^ weeks embryo. (His.) uf° Fig. 87.— Section of spinal cord of four weeks human embryo. (His.) The posterior roots are continued within the cord into a small longitudinal bundle -which is the rudiment of the posterior white column. The anterior roots are formed by the convergence of the processes of the neuroblasts. The latter, along with the elongated cells of the mvelospongium compose the grey matter. The external layer of the cord is traversed by radiating fibres which are the outer ends of the spongioblasts. The anterior commissure is beginning to appear. begin to make their appearance about the beginning of the fourth week in the human embryo (His). Their growth towards the periphery is slow; even by the end of the second month they have not reached the tips of the fingers and toes. Cranial nerves.—The neural crest is continuous along the dorsal aspect of the cerebral part of the neural tube as far as, and even beyond the mid-brain. As in the spinal part, clavate enlargements occur here also, but at somewhat irregular intervals, and form ganglion rudiments which become separated from the dorsal aspect of the tube, and acquire a new attachment on the lateral and ventral aspect. Such ganglion rudiments have been described for the third, fifth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth nerves. In the chick the ganglion rudiments belonging to the cranial nerves appear as a thickening of the cephalic epiblast, just where it is folding round into the as yet unclosed neural canal (fig. 89, vg). This thickening, according to Golowino, is continuous laterally with a modified portion of the external epiblast (sensory epiblast), and soon becomes subdivided into three ganglionic groups, and these, later, into separate ganglions. There is a corresponding subdivision of the sensory