DEVELOPMENT OE THE TONGUE. 102 appearance ; fig's. 117,118, seen from within).1 Between them, and also in front of the first cleft, the pharyngeal wall is greatly thickened so as to exhibit the appear- ance of curved bars bounding the clefts ; these bars are known as the cephalic visceral arches, and are live in number, viz. : the first or mandibular, in front of the first visceral cleft, between it and the mouth : this is the seat of formation of the lower jaw ; the second or hyoid arch, between the first and second clefts ; the third or thyro-hyoid arch, between the second and third clefts, which in fishes and amphibia develops gill-plates, and is therefore also known as the first branchial arch ; the fourth between the third and fourth clefts, corresponding with the second branchial arch of fishes, but small and inconspicuous in man and mammals ; and the fifth or second branchial still smaller and more inconspicuous, forming the posterior boundary of the fourth cleft, and hardly recognizable as a distinct bar in man. After the fourth week, and with the increasing flexure of the head, the arches become somewhat shifted over one another, so that the fourth arch is concealed by the third, and the third by the second. The mandibular arches early become united on the ventral aspect; from the fifth week their union is complete (fig. Ill, inn) and in man shows eventually no sign of amedian groove. The other arches do not at first reach the middle line (His), the space between their central ends being occupied by the heart and pericardium ; as these shift backwards a smooth infra- mandibular surface is left externally. Development of the tongue.—Within the pharynx, the second and third arches of the two sides are separated by a forked elevation (furcula) with a median Fig. 120.—Posterior aspect of the visceral arches of the embryo SHOWN IN FIGS. 116, 117, AS SEEN FROM THE INTERIOR OF THE PHARYNX. (His.) f The first or mandibular pair of arches join in the middle line ; the second arches are separated by a rounded prominence (tuberculum impar). Behind (below) this is the forked prominence (furcula) bounding a median groove which will become the laryngeal orifice. In the sections of each of the first two arches, the included artery is seen. The Roman numerals are opposite the corresponding arches. groove, in front of which is a rounded tubercle (/. impar, His), which arises in the angular space between the first and second arches (fig. 120). The groove around the furcula (sinus arcuatus. His) passes laterally into the visceral clefts. The second and third arches afterwards unite between the furcula and tuberculum impar (fig. 121, A). Thus united, the junction forms an X-shaped mass. From these conjoined extremities of the second and third arches on either side, the root of the tongue grows upwards and forwards as two prominences, which diverge in a V-shaped manner to embrace the anterior or papillary part of the organ which is developed from the tuberculum impar (fig. 121, B). At the angle of the V >s a deep depression (foramen caecum); this leads into a diverticulum, which forms the median rudiment of the thyroid body. When the parts of the tongue are united, there is still for a considerable time a V-shaped groove marking the line of union (fig. 122), and even in the adult there is often a distinct trace of this groove (sulcus terminalis, His). Parallel to this, and somewhat in front of it, the papillae valla tic are developed, and in front of these the other lingual papillae make their appear- ance (about the end of the second mouth). 1 According to His, who is confirmed by Born and by Kblliker, these clefts arc not as a rule developed into complete apertures in birds or mammals ; although the membranes which close them are composed only of juxtaposed epi- and hypoblast, the inesoblast having disappeared.