RECENT LITERATURE OF BLASTODERM. fV I 2 Cf. Balfour, “Comparative Embryology,” vol. ii., pp. 296, 297. 07 cavities communicate with the coelom. In moat vertebrates above Amphioxus the mesoblastic " f . «rft from the first solid, not Hollow (although a split may eaily, and does eventually3^any case, occur in them, the coelom being thus produced), nor do they originate so distinctly from the entoderm, but arise rather at the junction of this with ectoderm at the margin of the blastopore, and in the higher forms, especially mammals, may even be largely derived from ectoderm. It is nevertheless for many reasons probable that the origin in a pair of hollow diverticula, as above described, is to be looked upon as the typical one, and that as Fig. 29.—Sections across an amphioxus embryo of about the stages shown in fig. 2S, I. to III. (Hatscliek.) n.g., neural groove ; n.c., neural canal; ch, rudiment of notochord; mcs. som., mesoblastic somite. In I., its cavity is in free communication with the alimentary cavity ; cp, epiblast ; hy, hypoblast ; al, alimentary cavity. In III. the cavity of the somite has extended on either side of the alimentary canal and forms a coelom, or body cavity (cce). a solid outgrowth, subsequently becoming split or hollow, as a secondary modification.1 It is questionable, however, whether there is so considerable a difference between the external and internal portions of the wall of the diverticulum that these two plates of mesoblast should be regarded each one as of equal morphological importance with the epi- and hypoblast. The mesenchyme elements are not essentially different in their origin from the rest of the mesoblast.2 In forms which are regarded as most typical, such as Sagitta and Amphioxus, they are not distinct in origin from that layer. In the simpler forms amongst the Craniata, as Cyclostomata and Amphibia, no origin distinct from the rest of the mesoblast has been described for these elements, nor has it been seen in mammals, in which, indeed, it is difficult to conceive an independent source for them. In Elasmobranchs, at a time when the cavity of each myotome or protovertebra is still in open communication with the coelom, a large number of amoeboid cells separate from the adjacent mesoblast and take up a position between the myotome and the notochord. These form the so-called sclerotome, which gives origin to the axial skeleton. Other similar masses of cells are given off from other parts of the mesoblast (splanchnopleural, somatopleural and in tegumental). It is only in the highly modified meroblastic ova that appearances have been noted which have seemed to justify the ascribing a peripheral origin to the parablastic elements. But the evidence which has been hitherto adduced in favour of this view cannot be regarded as sufficient to justify its unconditional adoption, and it must be regarded as equally open to consideration whether the derivation from that part of the blastoderm which is most closely connected with the source of nutriment, viz., the yolk, of those elements which are to form the blood and blood-vessels, and otherwise to minister to the nutrition of the early embryo, is not to be explained by the modified physiological conditions of these telolecithal ova. 1 It. and 0. Hertwig, “ Die Ccelomtheorie,” Jena, 1881.