COURSE OF THE BLOOD IN THE FOETUS. 156 receives blood from the two vena cavte and the coronary sinus. The blood brought by the superior cava is simply the venous blood returned from the head and upper half of the body ; whilst the inferior cava, which is considerably larger than the superior, conveys not only the blood from the lower half of the body, but also that which is returned from the placenta and the liver. This latter stream of blood reaches the vena cava inferior, partly by a direct passage—the ductus venosus—and partly by the hepatic veins, which bring to the vena cava inferior all the blood Fig. 188.—Diagrammatic outline op the ORGANS OP CIRCULATION IN THE FOETUS op six months. (Allen Thomson.)1 RA, right auricle of the heart; RV, right ventricle ; LA, left auricle ; Ev, Eustachian valve ; LV, left ventricle ; L, liver ; K, left kidney ; I, portion of small intestine; a, arch of the aorta ; a', its dorsal part; a”, lower end ; vcs, superior vena cava ; vci, in- ferior vena where it joins the right auricle ; vci', its lower end ; s, subclavian vessels; right jugular vein ; c, common carotid arteries ; four curved dotted arrow lines are carried through the aortic and pulmonary opening, and the aurieulo-ventricular orifices; da, opposite to the one passing through the pulmonary artery, marks the place of the ductus arteriosus ; a similar arrow line is shown passing from the vena cava inferior through the fossa ovalis of the right auricle, and the foramen ovale into the left auricle ; hv, the hepatic veins ; vp, vena portae ; x to vci, the ductus venosus ; uv, the umbilical vein ; ua, umbilical arteries ; uc, umbilical cord cut short; i i', iliac vessels. circulating through the liver, whether derived from the supply of placental blood entering that organ by the umbilical vein, or proceeding from the vena portie or hepatic artery. The blood of the superior vena cava is believed to pass through the right auricle into the right ventricle, whence it is propelled into the trunk of the pulmonary artery. A small part is distributed through the branches of that vessel to the lungs, and returns by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle ; but, as these vessels remain small up to the time of birth, by far the larger part passes through the ductus arteriosus into tne descending aorta, and is thence distributed in part to the lower half of the body and the viscera, and in part along the umbilical arteries to the placenta. From these several organs it is returned by the vena cava inferior, the vena portse, and the umbilical vein; and, as already noticed, reaches the right auricle through the trunk of the inferior cava. Of the blood entering the heart by the inferior vena cava, it is supposed that only a small part is mingled with that of the superior cava, so its to pass into the i The red and blue coloration of this diagram represents the fact that the vessels coloured are arteries and veins respectively, and not the (fuality of blood which they convey.