101 THE PHARYNX. The shallow and widely open stomodseum soon deepens and is now seen to be specially bounded by certain prominences placed above, below, and at the sides, within and from which the several parts of the face are eventually pro- duced (fin's 111 119). These prominences are the fronto-nasal winch projects over the stomodseum, and is formed primarily by the prominence of the fore- brain, but afterwards acquires a considerable thickening of mesoblast, which ex- tends into it from the basis cranii; the mandibular or first visceral arch, which jig,—Profile view of a human embiiyo of ° about three weeks, showing all the CEPHALIC VISCERAL ARCHES AND CLEFTS. mx, maxillary process ; inn, mandibular arch ; d. C, duct of Cuvier ; jv, jugular vein ; c.v, cardinal vein ; v.v, vitelline vein ; u.v, umbilical vein ; u.a, umbilical artery ; (ill, allantois ; pi, placental attach- ment of allantoic stalk ; olf, olfactory depression ; ot, otic vesicle. after passing obliquely round the fore- cut, takes a horizontal direction on its ventral side, and meets its fellow in the middle line, the two together forming the ventral boundary of the stomodseum; and the maxillary process, which grows from the base of the mandibular arch, and projects on either side of the stomodmum, filling up the gap between the fronto- nasal process and the mandibular arch, and forming the lateral boundary. The separation of the stomodseum into an upper or olfactory and respiratory part and a lower permanent buccal cavity, together with the changes which occur in the fronto-nasal and maxillary processes to produce the result, has already been referred to in describing the de- velopment of the nose (pp. 95 to 97). Pharynx.—The remainder of the ali- mentary canal below the mouth is nearly simple, at first consisting, as before men- tioned, of a tubular portion in front—the fore-gut; a shorter tubular portion behind —the hind-gut ; and a middle part which is freely open to the yolk (fig. 117). The hind-gut remains simple throughout, except that the allantois grows out from its ventral aspect.1 But in front a differentiation soon makes its appear- ance, the cephalic part becoming enlarged to form the pharynx, while almost immediately behind this another enlargement forms the stomach. The hypoblast lining the cavity of the pharynx grows out on either side successively at four distinct levels, and to a less extent the epiblast dips in opposite the hvpoblastic outgrowths. In this way eventually four deep clefts between the pharynx and the exterior become formed ; these are known as the cephalic visceral clefts (figs. 110, 119, in external 1 In the human embryo the allantois appeavs to be formed by a direct continuation of the lateral folds, which have united to form the main alimentary tube, while the part of the tube behind the allantois (bursa) appears as a blind protrusion (His).