150 DEVELOPMENT OF THE FOURTH AND FIFTH ARCHES. the commencement of the vertebral ; it subsequently far exceeds the parent vessel in size, and forms the subclavian, this name being extended to what was originally the commencement of the vertebral from the descending aorta. Destination of the fourth and fifth arches.—As was above stated, the aortic trunk, connected below with the left ventricle, is connected above with the four superior arches, which spring from its two ascending rami ; of these rami the right is much the smaller, and its root forms the innominate ; the root of the left, which is much larger, represents the part of the arch of the aorta between the Fig. 182 —Diagram to show the destination ok the ARTERIAL ARCHES IN MAN and mammals. (Modified from Rathke.) The truncus arteriosus, aud the five arterial arches spring- ing from it are represented in outline only, the permanent vessels in colours—those be- longing to the aortic system red, to the pulmonary system blue. innominate and the left common carotid. On the right side the whole of the fourth arch remains, and forms the common subelavo- vertebral trunk ; on the left side the whole arch persists and forms the remainder of the arch of the aorta. The fifth arch of the right side only persists as far as the origin of the branch to the right lung, the remainder of the arch disappears. The fifth arch of the left side persists throughout its whole length during foetal life, and joins the fourth arch as the ductus arteriosus. After birth, the part of the arch beyond the branch to the corresponding lung becomes impervious on this side also, and is converted into the ligamentum arteriosum. The upper part of the descending primitive aorta disappears entirely on the right side ; that of the left side forms the commencement of the permanent descending aorta. Rathke described both pulmonary arteries as being given off from the fifth left arch in mammals, although admitting that in birds and reptiles each is formed from the corresponding arch. In birds the permanent aortic arch is the fourth arch of the right side, and not of the left side as in mammals, and in reptiles both aortic arches remain pervious. Many of the abnormalities which are observed in the disposition of these arteries, may be explained by regarding them as a persistence of embryonic conditions. The development of the arterial arches of the bird has been recently again examined by Mackay, whose account differs in important particulars from that of Rathke, and indeed of nearly all previous investigators. He describes the subclavian artery as arising from the third arch, not from the fourth (this was also given as its origin by Sabatier), springing from the ventral part of the arch, and running outwards superficial to the pneumogastric nerve and jugular vein. The third arch and its dorsal upward prolongation, form the common carotid, not the eorszj-no/z/ carotid" recurrent tcvrynyei reeroe- riaf&t' siwcioouicui innominoote/ artery ovseendtina/ aorta. -ray us nerve external ' dcovrotid ^-interned carotid, vertchraL ovrch of CW7'tC0 \left iddaoicwi ductile arteriosus jyidmon-cuy aortas