73 DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVES. hemisphere just below the hippocampal sulcus, which is caused by the ingrowth of the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. According- to Ecker. the fissure of Sylvius is the first of the primitive sulci to appear. It is visible before the end of the third month, as a wide, shallow depression, which divides the lower margin of the hemisphere into two nearly equal portions, and at the bottom of which is seen the thickening of the floor of the vesicle from which the corpus striatum and the island of Reil are developed. This fissure appears to be formed by a curving of the still thin-walled hemisphere vesicle over that thickening, around which the vesicle bends ; and its anterior and posterior parts ultimately meet along the line which marks the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure in the developed brain. The anterior limb is produced much later by a further folding over of that part of the mantle which is in front of the fossa Sylvii. The fissure remains until nearly the end of foetal life as a widely open depression, at the bottom of which the island of Reil is readily visible. It closes gradually from behind forwards. The other sulci are distinguished from the four above-numerated in the fact that they are depressions of the surface merely, and not infoldings of the whole thickness of the wall of the hemisphere vesicle.1 They begin to appear about the end of the fifth month, the fissure of Rolando being the first to show (figs. 80 and 81). By the end of the sixth month the precentral and inferior frontal sulci, the intraparietal, the superior occipital, the parallel, the inferior temporal, the calloso- marginal, and the collateral fissures have become visible, as well as the anterior limb of the Sylvian fissure. By the end of the seventh month (see fig. 82) most of the remaining principal convolutions and fissures have appeared, and those which were previously present have increased both iD length and depth. They are, however, all comparatively short and simple. During the eighth month, they continue to increase in length and depth, and the remaining sulci become gradually developed, but even in the ninth month there are none of the accessory or secondary furrows which add so much to the complexity of the developed brain. The last of the principal sulci to make their appearance are the inferior occipito-temporal. DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVES. Spinal nerves.—At an early period of development, in some cases even before the closure of the neural groove, in others during or shortly after that event, there Fig. 83.—Transverse section through the trunk of an embryo SHARK, TO SHOW THE NEURAL CREST. (Balfour.) vc, neural canal ; pr, ganglion rudiment running from neural crest ; x, sub-notochordal rod ; ao, aorta ; sc, j arietal mesoblast ; sp, visceral mesoblast; nip, muscle plate ; inp', portion of muscle plate converted into muscle ; Vd, portion of protovertebra which -will give rise to the vertebra ; al, alimentary canal. grows out bilaterally from the angle of junction of the neural with the general epiblast (fig. 89), and conse- quently at the dorsal aspect of the neural tube a continuous ridge or crest of epiblast, which was first de- scribed by Balfour in elasmobranch fishes : this is termed the neural crest. At intervals along the sides of the neural crest, corresponding with the middle of each mesoblastic somite or protovertebra, special clavate enlargements or outgrowths of the neural crest occur (fig. 83,pr). These grow downwards along the dorso-lateral aspect of the neural canal, between the protovertebra and the canal. They remain for a time attached above lateraUmS witE^S*6 * CoDatei*1 which with the col-