36 CLEAVAGE OF THE MESOBLAST. along the umbilical cord, with the intestine. This is termed the umbilical duct, and the yolk-sac itself has received (in mammals) the name of umbilical vesicle (figs. 50, 51). Lastly, at the tail end ol the embryo a hind-gut is produced. In the human embryo this appears to bo formed by a protrusion from the posterior blind end of the enteiic groo\e, and after the formation of the allantoic tube, but in most mammals wf Fig. 3/. Transverse section of tiie tail end of an embryo chicic of the latter half of THE SECOND day, AT THE PLACE WHERE THE VERTEBRAL SOMITES CEASE. «>. (From Kolliker.) m.f., medullary folds, the neural canal beginning to close ; p.m., paraxial mesoblast ; l.m., lateral mesoblast; ep., epiblast ; hy, hypoblast; ao, primitive aorta; ch, notochord ; p, coelomic cleavage of lateral plate of mesoblast. and in birds it is produced by a folding over of the tail end of the embryo like that which occurs at the head end to enclose the fore-gut (figs. 45 to 47). The hind-gut om Fig. 38.—Embryo chick at the end of the second day, seen from below, rf. (From Kolliker.) Vh, forebrain ; Ab, primary ocular vesicles ; Ch, notochord ; 11, tubular heart; om, vitelline veins ; Yd, entrance to the forepart of the alimentary canal within- the cephalic fold ; in the middle part of the embryo, the protovertebral somites are seen (to the number of thirteen pairs) on each side of the canal of the spinal marrow and notochord. remains for a considerable time blind, until the anus becomes formed by iuvagiuation from the exterior. Cleavage of mesoblast. Formation of body cavity.— At a very early period, soon indeed after the formation of the neural groove, two important changes begin in the mesoblast. One of these is the cleavage of the lateral mesoblast (which is at first a continuous sheet) into two plates, one of which clings to the epiblast, and the other to the hypoblast. The cleft is at first small (fig. 37, p), but accumulation of fluid within it soon con- verts it into a cavity, which gradually spreads until the separation is very extensive (fig. 39, p.p.). The layer of mesoblast which clings to the epiblast eventually forms part of the body-wall, and is known as the somatopleural mesoblast; that which clings to the hypoblast forms eventually part of the wall of the alimentary tract, and is known as the splanchnopleural mesoblast. The cavity between these, which is formed by enlargement of the original cleft, is the coelom or body cavity (pleuro-peritoneal cavity of authors). Formation of mesoblastic somites.—The other change occurs not in the lateral but in the paraxial mesoblast, and consists in the occurrence at regular intervals transversely along the mass, of a process of thinning which produces its complete separation into distinct segments, so that when the embryo is viewed from above or below, these segments appear on either side of the neural groove as a linear series of small quadrangular masses (fig. 38), which were originally termed