CHANGES IN THE UTERUS, 48 whilst others arc special to that part (d.serotiua) which enters into the construction of the placenta, ihc following is a brief account of these changes.^ " ith the supervention of pregnancy the mucous membrane lining the uterus becomes thickened and the tubular- glands become both dilated and greatly elongated. Fig. 51.—Antero-posterior. section op the gravid uterus and ovum op FIVE weeks. (Semi-dia- grammatic. ) (Allen Thomson.) a, anterior ; p, posterior uterine wall ; m, mus- cular substance ; u, placed in the cavity of the uterus ; (j, the glandular layer of the decidua vera ; r, the decidua reflexa ; s, decidua serotina ; c, cervix uteri ; c/t, chorion with its villi, which are more highly deve- loped on the placental side ; e, the embryo enclosed in the amnion, with the allantoic vessels passing along a short allantoic stalk into the placenta, and the umbilical vesicle lying free in the space between amnion and chorion. A Fig. 51*. DrAGRAMMATIC SECTIONS OP THE UTERINE MUCOUS MEMBRANE, SHOWING THE CHANGES WHICH the glands undergo with the supervention op pregnancv (from Kundrat and Engelmann). A, Diagram of the glands of the non-pregnant uterus ; m, muscular layer; B, condition of the glands at the beginning of pregnancy ; c, compact layer near free surface of decidua : the glands are here somewhat enlarged but not very tortuous, and the mucous membrane is rendered compact by hypertrophy of the interglandular tissue ; sp, spongy layer, containing the middle portion of the glands greatly enlarged and tortuous, producing a spongy condition in the mucous membrane; d, deepest portion of the glands, elongated and tortuous, but not much enlarged. This thickening of the membrane and enlargement of the glands goes on until the fifth month, so that by this time the decidua vera is nearly half an inch in thickness and its glands have undergone so considerable an elongation that they now no longer pass nearly straight through the membrane but run in a .tortuous manner from the 1 For a more complete account of the changes in the uterus, and of the placenta, the reader is referred to tho list of papers at the end of this section, but especially to the works of Kundrat and Engelmann, Leopold, and Minot, and for the comparative structure of the placenta to the classical investigations of Tumor.