14 RECENT LITERATURE OK THE OVUM. and female elements, and every one of its descendants must also contain a certain proportion of each, l'or the sexual conjugation of two cells it is assumed to be necessary that the one should get rid of the male elements, and retain only the female, and that the other should be exclusively male. This is effected in the one case, according to Minot, by the extrusion of the polar globules, which, in this view, represent the male element of the originally hermaphrodite generative cell, so that when they are extruded this remains vdiolly female; in the other case there is also a separation, and the separated part becomes disil tegrated, leaving only the male portion, or spermatozoon—the separated part in this case represents, therefore, the female element of the generative cell. Theory of Weismann.—Minot’s theory was adopted by Balfour, who looked upon the formation of polar cells as having been acquired by the ovum for the express purpose of pre- venting parthenogenesis. According to this view no polar globules should be formed in parthe- nogenetic ova, and it was believed by both Minot and Balfour that they would not be found to occur. It has, however, since been discovered by Weismann and Blochmann that parthe- nogenetic ova do extrude one polar globule, although the ordinary ova of the same animal extrude two. It is clear that this fact renders a modification necessary in the view advocated by Minot and Balfour. Such modification, or substitute, as it may perhaps more appropriately be termed, has been furnished by Weismann in his theory of heredity ( Vererbungxtlieorie'). This theory assumes that every animal and vegetable cell contains two different kinds of living substance. These are termed by Weismann the nuclear plasma and the nutritive plasma. The former is endowed, with germinative, directing and hereditary functions, the latter with, assimilation of food and the more purely physical functions (contraction, nerve-conduction, secretion, &.C.), but these functions are assumed to be carried out under the direction of the nuclear plasma. The nuclear plasma is further supposed by Weismann to consist of two sub- stances, viz., a germinal plasma which is the primitive form, and which alone is endowed with heredity, and a histogenetic plasma which has been derived from the germinal plasma, and which controls the division, growth, and differentiation of the cell. Fertilization consists in the bringing to the ovum of a certain amount of germinal plasma from a different individual, and Weismann assumes that it is necessary for the ovum, prior to fertilization and develop- ment, to get rid both of its old histogenetic plasma and of so much germinal plasma as may be brought to it by the spermatozoon, and that it effects this by the extrusion (1) of one (histogenetic) polar globule, (2) of the other (germinal) globule. If this is what happens, the primitive or germinal plasma is never wholly eliminated from the ovum, so that it may be looked upon as transmitting all the accumulated ancestral characters which have been derived from the vast number of its predecessors. A portion is, however, got rid of in the form of the second polar globule, and what remains is not necessarily of quite the same constitution in every case, nor is the portion of germ plasma brought by the spermatozoon necessarily always similar : these differences in the germinal plasma of the fertilized ovum may account, accord- ing to Weismann, for the individual differences which occur in the progeny.1 Weismann and Ischikawa have Shown that in some animals the segmentation of the ovum may have advanced through one or two stages before the entry of a spermatozoon. In this case the spermatozoon (male pro-nucleus) blends with the nucleus of only one of the cells which have resulted from the segmentation. Probably the sexual cells are the ultimate result of this conjugation. RECENT LITERATURE. Beneden, E. v., Recherches sur la maturation de Vceuf et la fecondation. Arch, de biolog., iv., 1884 ; Fertilization and Segmentation in Ascaris Megalocephala, Journal of Microscopic Science, 1888 (Bulletin de l’academie r. des sciences de Belgique, 1887, t. xiv.) ; Sur la fecondation chez l ascaride megalocephale, Anatomischer Anzeiger. Jahrg., iii., 1888. Beneden, E. v. et Neyt, A., Nouvclles recherches sur la fecondation et la division mitosique chez Vascaride megalocephale (Bullet, de l’acad. royale des sciences de Belgique, 3 ser. t. xiv., 1887). Blochmann, E., Ueber die Richtungskorper bei Inselcteneiern, Morpliol. Jahrbuch, Bd. xii., 1887. Also in Morph. Jahrb. xv., 1889, and Verhandl. d. naturhist. med. Yereins zu Heidelberg, 1888. Boveri, T., Zellenstudien, II. 1, Die Bildung der Richslungsharper bei Ascaris megalocephala und. Ascaris lumbricoidcs, Jenaische Zeitsckr. f. Naturwiss., Bd. xiv., 1887 ; Zellenstudien. II. 2. Die Befruchtung und Theilung des Dies von Ascaris megalocephala, Jena. Zeitschr., 1888 ; Zellenstudien. If. 3. Ueber das Vcrhaij.en der clivomatischen Kernsubstanz bei der Bildung der Richtungskorper u. bei der Befruchtung, Jena. Zeitschr., 1890. Biitschli, O., Gedanken iiber die morphologische Bedeutung der sogenannten Richtungsk&rperchen, Biolog. Centralbl., Bd. iv., 1884. 1 It is difficult to do any justice to Wcismann’s theory in a short space, and the above is to be taken as only furnishing a rough sketch of its general outline. For a complete account the reader ii referred to Weismann’s publications upon the subject (see Literature).