134 DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART. FORMATION OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART. In mammals, the heart appears in the form of two tubes lyin«- in the cenhalic region, one on either side of the embryo. These are seen at a very early period pi 101, ill fact, to the separation of any part of the alimentary canal from the yolk sac, and to the closure of the neural groove. This bilateral condition was first observed by Hensen in the rabbit; it has been seen by His in the human embryo. The situation and mode of formation of the bi-tubular heart are well illustrated by the accompanying figures from Ivolliker. They exhibit the condition in the Fig. 157.—Rabbit embryo op the 9tii day, from the surface, y. (Kolliker.) The medullary groove is enlarged anteriorly and the primary optic vesicles are growing out from the first cerebral enlarge- ment. On either side of the head, the bilateral tubular heart is seen. Eight pairs of protovertebrre are formed. rabbit embryo of about eight or nine days—the time when the heart first makes its appearance. Fig. 157 shows such an embryo in surface view. The neural groove, as also the sections show, is widely open, although the rudiments of the cere- bral enlargements are apparent hi it, and also the enlargements for the primary optic vesicles. There are eight pairs of pro to vertebrae, the paraxial mesoblast in front of these and on either side of the cerebral enlargements being undivided. Out- side this undivided cephalic mesoblast is a short tube dipping in front into it, and passing behind into a venous trunk, the vitelline or omplialo- meseraic vein of the same side. The tube lies within and is immediately surrounded by a clear space, which is continued forwards beyond it on either side of the fore-brain ; this space is pro- longed from the mesoblastic cleft or pleuro-peri- toneal cavity (coelom). The two short tubes form the double rudiment of the heart. The situation which they occupy becomes, when the lateral walls fold over to form the foregut, the ventral wall of the pharynx, and the two tubes are thus brought together in the middle line underneath the head part of the alimentary canal. Here they soon become fused together to form a single median tube, the hinder end of which is still continuous with the two vitelline veins, while the anterior end bifurcates near the anterior end of the foregut into two branches which arch dorsalwards on either side of that tube, and then pass backwards on each side of the notochord as the two primitive aortse. These changes in the position of the primitive heart are partly shown in surface view in figs. 158, 159, but they can only properly be appreciated by the study of transverse sections. Fig. 1G0 is a transverse section through the anterior head region of the embryo shown in fig. 157. This is anterior to the heart region, but shows the commencing folding over of the splanchnopleure to form the foregut.