FORMATION OF THE BLASTODERM. 18 granular cells, which represents the remainder of the inner granular mass of the blastodermic vesicle after the separation of the subjacent layer. The three layers were believed by v. Beneden to represent the three permanent layers of the blastoderm. But it has been conclusively shown (by Rauber and Kolliker in the rabbit, and by Liebcrkuhn and Heape in the mole) that the middle stratum of this stage of development is not the permanent middle layer of the blastoderm, for it is "« h Fig. 15.—Section op part op the blastodermic vesicle of the rabbit at six days. (From E. van Beneden.) a, upper layer (Rauber’s cells) forming with b, the primitive ectoderm ; c, primitive entoderm. -P Fig. 1G.—A section through part op a bilaminar blastoderm op the cat. (E. A. S.) cct, primitive ectoderm ; ent, primitive entoderm ; z.p., thinned-out zona pellucida. before long converted into a layer of columnar cells which becomes closely applied to, and soon blends with, Rauber’s layer, so that the two now form but a single stratum, which may be denominated the primitive ectoderm. Kolliker describes the cells of Rauber’s layer as undergoing- a kind of atrophy and gradual disappearance, taking no part in the formation of the primitive ectoderm. The observa- tions of Lieberkuhn and Heape, on the other hand, tend to support the view which has been given in the text. Both layers, but especially the primitive ectoderm, are somewhat thickened near the middle of the ovum over a circular or oval area, which appears slightly darker than the rest of the ovum when this is viewed by transmitted light : it is known as the embryonic area (fig. 17). The entoderm does not for a long time form a complete invest- ment to the blastodermic vesicle, for as we have seen it commences to form near the centre of the ovum, and only gradually grows round within the epithelial investment, so that it terminates peripherally by a free border. In most mammals which have been investigated, it has not completely enclosed the ovum when the mesoblast has begun to form, but in the cat its growth appears to progress more rapidly, so that, for a time, the blastodermic vesicle has two complete and distinct epithelial invest- ments. Whether complete or incomplete, the two layers together constitute what is known as the bilaminar blastoderm (fig. 16), the formation of which marks a distinct stage in the development of all the metazoa. But the blastoderm does not long remain in the bilaminar condition. In the rabbit and mole, and probably in most mammals, long before the primitive entoderm has completely extended itself around the ovum, there occurs a considerable thickening of the primitive ectoderm at one end—the posterior—of the somewhat oval embryonic area. This thickening has at first a crescentic form, with the concave edge looking for- wards, and from the middle of this edge a longitudinal thickening extends for a certain distance towards the centre of the embryonic area. The thickening is produced by a proliferation of the cells of the primitive ectoderm, aud its consequent downgrowth towards the primitive entoderm, and it is visible when the ovum is viewed from above by transmitted light, as a streak or shadow which is known as the primitive