148 development of the principal arteries. time of birth being the fourth and fifth arches of the left side, which form the arch of the aorta and the ductus arteriosus respectively. This obliteration begins early in the liist and second arches, so that in many animals by the time the posterior aiches are foimcd the anterior are partially obliterated ; but in man this is not the case, all five pairs of arches being present and fully pervious for a certain time (fb's 178, 179, from His). . As development proceeds, the point of insertion of the aortic bulb, which is at first opposite the first arterial arch, becomes, along with the rest of the heart, Fig. 179.—Profile view of a human embryo ok ABOUT THREE WEEKS, SHOWING THE CEPHALIC VISCERAL ARCHES AND CLEFTS ANI) THEIR RELA- TIONS TO THE ARTERIAL ARCHES. (His.) mx, maxillary process ; mn, mandibular arch ; d.C, duct of Cuvier; j.v, jugular vein; c.v, cardinal vein ; v.v, vitelline vein ; u.v, umbilical vein ; u.a, umbilical artery ; all, allantois ; pi, placental at- tachment of allantoic stalk ; olf, olfactory depres- sion ; ot, otic vesicle. relatively shifted backwards, and on each side the arterial arches presently appear to come off from the bulb in two sets, viz.: the first and second from an ascending trunk, afterwards the external carotid, and the third, fourth, and fifth from a descend- ing trunk. As the point of insertion is still further shifted, the third arch becomes added to the ascending trunk, the lower part of which now forms the common carotid. Finally, by a continuance of the same process, the fourth arch on each side comes to spring from tbe ascending trunk : that of the right side forming the innominate artery, that of the left the arch of the aorta ; and only tbe fifth arch, from which the pulmonary arteries spring, has for a time a descending direction. From the dorsal part of the first arch a branch passes towards the brain—this becomes the upper part of the internal carotid. When the first and second arches become obliterated—a change which next occurs—this branch remains in continuity with the third arch by the unobliterated dorsal portions of the first and second arches (upper extremity of primitive aortrn) : these portions, together with the third arch, form the lower part of the internal carotid, the posterior communication between the third and fourth arch becoming obliterated. The branches of tbe external carotid are produced from the remains (ventral) of the first and second arches ; the maxillary and temporal arteries from the first, the lingual and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and probably also the occipital and auricular, from the anterior part of the second arch. The division of the bulb into aortic and pulmonary trunks begins just at the time when the extremity of the aortic bulb has become shifted backward so as