109 THE LUNGS. FORMATION OF THE GLANDS OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. Under this head may be included not only those organs which are ordinarily so termed, but also the lungs, and the thymus and thyroid bodies, since the early development of these three organs resembles that of the true secreting glands. All the organs above enumerated are formed as epithelial involutions, either solid at first and afterwards becoming hollowed out, or hollow from the first. As these epithelial buds grow into the mesoblast, they may either bifurcate or give off lateral branches, and in this manner all the ramifications of the ducts of the compound racemose glands are produced. The blind extremities generally end eventually in enlarged tubular or saccular dilatations. All the epithelium of the gland-saccules and ducts is derived from the original epithelial sprout, while the basement membranes and connective tissue and blood-vessels of the gland are derived from the surrounding mesoblast. The salivary glands and most other glands of the mouth, and part of the hypophysis, which must also be reckoned as a glandular development, are formed in this way by involution of the buccal or stomodteal epiblast; while the lungs, liver, pancreas, thyroid, thymus, and all the small glands of the rest of the alimentary canal are formed of involutions of the hypoblast. The development of the teeth, which also first make their appearance as involutions of stomodaeal epiblast (enamel germs), will be described after their structure has been dealt with (in the part of this work which is devoted to Splanchnology). The lungs.—The lungs begin to develope from the ventral part of the pharynx at its junction with the oesophagus, in the beginning of the third day in the chick, Fig. 131.—Lung rudiments of human embryo of about 4 weeks, showing the bud-like ENLARGEMENTS WHICH REPRESENT THE LOBES OF THE FUTURE LUNGS. (His.) Tlnee buds are seen on tlie right side, two on the left. Fig. 132.—Lungs of a human embryo more advanced in development. (His.) and in the human embryo at a correspondingly early period (fig. 123, Lg). The lung rudiment is at first single and median, and takes the form of an elongated vertical diverticulum of the fore-gut, communicating freely with that tube, and of course lined by hypoblast. Soon the diverticulum sprouts out at its lower extremity in the form of two tubes which grow downwards on either side behind and on either side of the heart, into a mass of mesoblastic tissue, which keeps pace in its growth with the hypoblastic lung rudiment, and from which the connective tissues of the future lung become ultimately developed. The extremities of the tubes in question are early seen to be dilated and lobulated (fig. 131), three lobules being present on the right tube, and two on the left, the division of the lungs into their lobes being thus early indicated. The further outgrowth of the lobulations produces the rudiments of the principal branches of the bronchi, one for each future pulmonary lobe, and each of these branches then gradually