DEVELOPMENT OF THE EAR. 91 Other hollow projections appear near the dorsal end of the vesicle ; these form the two superior semicircular canals ; the horizontal canal appears a little later. The mode of formation of the canals is somewhat peculiar. They first appear as flattened semicircular hollow protrusions of the wall of the vesicle. Their sides then come together and coalesce, except near the circumference of the semicircle, which now forms a tube con- nected at both ends with the vesicle. Subsequently a separation or breach of continuity occurs over the area of coalescence, so that the rest of the tube is free. One of the ends becomes dilated into an ampulla and connected with a branch of the auditory nerve. Whilst these processes arc occurring at the dorsal and ventral ends of the now elongated vesicle, a fold, or constriction, of the wall is beginning to make its appearance about the middle, and thus the posterior part which is connected with the semicircular canals becomes gradually separated (as the utricle) from the anterior part, which forms the saccule, and is connected with the cochlea. This fold extends into the beginning of the recess of the labyrinth, and separates it longitudinally for a B C b Fig. 106.—Stages in the development of the membranous labyrinth. (W. His, jun.) A. Left labyrinth of a human embryo of about four weeks, viewed from the outer side, v, vestibu- lar part ; c, cochlear part; r.l, recessus labyrinthi (aquseductus vestibuli). B. Left labyrinth with parts of the facial and auditory nerves of a human embryo of about 4A weeks, b, surface of the hind brain ; u, utricular ; s, saccular part of labyrinth ; a.s.c., p.s.c., e.s c., rudimentary folds representing the two vertical and the horizontal semicircular canals ; r.l, upper part of recessus labyrinthi becoming enlarged into the endolymphatic saccule ; c.c, rudiment of cochlea ; n.v, vestibular branch of auditory nerve ; g.v, vestibular ganglion (ganglion of Scarpa); g.c, cochlear ganglion ; n.f, facial nerve, with geniculate ganglion, g.g. C. Left labyrinth of a human embryo of about five weeks, viewed from without and below. Letter- ing as before. The horizontal canal is still only a fold. The ampulla are beginning to be visible on the two vertical canals. S.a,; short distance into two tubes, one of which opens into the utricle, and the other into the saccule, forming the only permanent means of communication between their contents. Another fold, or constriction, appears presently, somewhat lower down, and converts the connection between the saccule and the cochlea rudiment into the narrow duct of Hensen (canalis re-uniens). In the meantime the cochlea-rudiment at the ventral end of the now labyrinthic vesicle, becomes elongated into a tube, which, as it grows, becomes coiled upon itself in such a manner as to produce the spiral structure of this part of the auditory