FORMATION AND STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. 53 of the two fluids, nor is it possible to inject the foetus from the mother through the placenta, or the mother from the foetus. The question, which 1ms been more than once raised, whether the intervillous spaces normally contain blood, may be now regarded as settled in the affirmative. It has been usually held that they represent capillaries or veins of the decidua, which have become dilated and fused together to such an extent as to occupy the whole thickness of the placental part of that membrane, with atrophy of the intervening decidual tissue, which merely remains as a covering to the villi. But since the placental sinuses appear to be bounded superficially by the chorionic covering of the ovum, and it is in most places not possible to detect any decidual tissue between them and the chorion, it has been conjectured by some writers (Kolliker, Langhans) that they have become formed by extravasation of blood into a space between the ovum and the decidua, into and across which space the chorionic villi have grown. Although the development of these structures is insufficiently known in Primates, it has been shown in various mammals (Selenka, Duval, Hubrecht, Masius) that the first attachment of the blastodermic vesicle to the uterine wall is effected by the external layer of the epiblast, which sometimes splits off over the embryonic area as a distinct layer, and which, in some animals (c.y., hedgehog), becomes greatly thickened, and is connected by epiblastic villi to the decidua. This external layer of epiblast, for which Hubrecht has pro- posed the general name of troj)/i oblast, causes the absorption of the uterine epithelium both of the surface and of the glands (where this epithelium has not previously been cast off) and comes directly in contact with the enlarging decidual vessels, the endothelium of which is actively proliferating. Within the thickened trophoblast clefts now make their appear- ance and are presently found to be occupied by maternal blood, which is derived from the vessels of the adjacent hypertrophied decidua. This blood flows therefore into spaces in the trophoblast, which are only bounded by foetal epiblast, and this primary placental circulation may be formed before any foetal blood-vessels have reached the chorion. Subsequently, when the vascular mesoblastic villi become formed they extend into these spaces, pushing before them the epiblast; by this layer they remain permanently covered and it also lines the enlarged spaces into which they have extended. The placenta is composed of two parts, one foetal, composed of chorion with its villi ; the other maternal, formed from decidua serotina. In its completely Fig. 57.—Transverse section of a villus from A PLACENTA OF SEVEN MONTHS (Minot). Three blood-vessels are seen within the villus, imbedded in a jelly-like connective tissue containing cells and fibres ; a, a, cell-layer covering villus (epiblast according to Minot; according to others of decidual origin) ; /, a thickened portion of this cell-layer, which has undergone a fibrinous transfor- mation (canalised fibrin). developed condition, it is a circular discoid mass, weighing about a pound, 7 or 8 inches in diameter, thickest at the centre (Id inch), and thinning away towards the edges, which are continuous with the compara- tively thin coalesced deciduae and chorion. Its inner surface is smooth and concave, and is closely covered by the amnion as by a serous membrane ; under this the larger branches of the umbilical vessels course before dipping into the substance of the placenta. From near the centre of the organ the umbilical cord passes off to the foetus. Its outer surface is incorporated with the uterine wall, but when detached from this by tearing through the spongy tissue of which the deeper part of the decidua is formed (as occurs in parturition at the expulsion of the ioetus), the outer surface appears ragged and irregular, in striking contrast to the smooth amnion-covered inner surface. Examined under the microscope, the chorionic tissue (villi) of the placenta is found to be composed of jelly-like connective tissue, with branched and anastomosing cells (fig. 57) : in some parts of the larger stems white fibres are seen. What remains of the decidual