155 PECULIARITIES OP THE FCETAL ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. vestigial fold of Marshall, to whom is duo the first full elucidation of the natuic and relations of the left primitive vena cava superior. The left duct of Cuvier has been observed persistent as a small vessel in the adult. Less frequently a right and a left innominate vein open separately into the Fig. 1S'7.—View of the fcetal heart and great VESSELS, FROM THE LEFT SIDE, TO SHOW THE VESTIGE OF THE LEFT SUPERIOR VENA CAVA IN SITU. (This figure is planned after one of Marshall’s.) a, right auricle ; b, left auricle and pulmonary veins ; c, the conus arteriosus of the right ventricle ; cl, the left ventricle ; c, descending aorta ; +, vestigial fold of the pericardium : f, arch of the aorta, with a part of the pericardium remaining above ; g, main pulmonary artery and ductus arteriosus ; cf, left pulmonary artery ; 1, 1', right and left internal jugular veins ; 2, 2', subclavian veins ; 3, 3', right innominate and superior vena cava ; 4, left innominate ; 5, 5', remains of the left superior cava and duct of Cuvier, passing at + in the vestigial fold of the pericardium, joining the coronary sinus, 6, below, and receiving above the superior intercostal vein, 7 ; 7', 7', the upper and lower intercostal vein. right auricle, an arrangement which is also met with in birds and in certain mammals, and which results from the vessels of the left side being developed similarly to those of the right, while the cross branch remains small or absent. A case is recorded by Gruber in which the left vena azygos opened into the coronary sinus, and was met by a small vein descending from the union of the subclavian and jugular. Here, then, the jugular veins had been developed in the usual manner, while the left vena azygos continued to pour its blood into the duct of Cuvier. PECULIARITIES OF THE FCETAL ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. It may be useful here to recapitulate shortly the peculiarities of structure exist- ing in the advanced stage of the formation of the fcetal organs of circulation, with reference to their influence in determining the course of the blood during intra- uterine life, and the changes which occur in them upon the establishment of pulmo- nary respiration at birth. The foramen ovale retains the form of a free oval opening in the septum atri- orum up to the fourth month, but in the course of that month and the next the growth of the valvular plate which fills up the floor of the fossa oval is, becomes com- plete, so that in the last three and a half months the blood can only pass from the right into the left auricle, not in a contrary direction. The Eustachian valve constitutes a crescentic fold of the lining structure of the heart, which is so situated as to direct the blood entering the auricle by the in- ferior cava towards the opening of the foramen ovale. The ductus arteriosus establishes a communication between the main pul- monary artery and the aorta, by which the blood from the right ventricle is carried mainly into the dorsal aorta. rl be two large hypogastric or umbilical arteries, prolonged from the iliac arteries, passing out of the body of the foetus, proceed along the umbilical cord, to be distributed in the foetal portion of the placenta. From the placenta the blood is returned by the umbilical vein, which, after entering the abdomen, communicates by one branch with the portal vein, and is continued by another, named ductus venosus, into one ol the hepatic veins, through which it joins the main stem of the vena cava inferior. Course of the blood in the foetus.—The right auricle of the foetal heart