1 Except the Ccelentcrata which have only the two primary layers. 2G MESENCHYME THEORY OF HERTWIG. late years it has obtained, in a somewhat modified form, the adherence of many embryologists, and especially of R. and 0. Hertwig, Kupffer, Kollmann, and Waldeyer. R. and 0. Hertwig have given the name of mesenchyme to the embryonic tissue which gives rise to the connective tissues and vascular endothelium, while retaining the designation of middle germinal layer or mesoderm for the rest of the mesoblast; but the derivation of the mesenchyme is admitted by 0. Hertwig to be directly from mesoblast, from which it differs (1) in its structure, consisting of loosely arranged wandering cells, as distinguished from the epithelium-like lamella:, of which accordiug to their description the rest of the mesoderm is composed ; (2) in its derivation, arising as separate cells from the entoderm instead of in the form of a coherent layer ; and (3) in its further development and destination, giving origin to the connective tissues and blood-vessels, and perhaps to the plain muscular tissue, whereas the mesoderm proper gives origin to the skeletal muscles and to the epithelium of the serous cavities, and of the genital and urinary organs. They describe the true mesoderm as consisting of two epithelial lamella:, which form distinct layers of the blastoderm, so that according to this view the complete blastoderm would consist of four layers (epiblast, outer or somatic mesoblast, inner or splanchnic mesoblast and hypoblast) besides the mesenchyme : to which must be added a median strand of cells set aside for the formation of the notochord, and derived from the hypoblast. It appears evident from the researches of Kowalevsky in Sagitta and Ampliioxus that what is to be regarded as the typical origin of the mesoblast in Metazoa1 takes the form of a pair of diverticula from the primitive archenteric cavity (fig. 28, la ; fig. 29, I), which hollow diverticula become pinched off from the remainder of that cavity, and, their cavities becoming Fig. 28.—Formation of mesoblastic somites in amphioxus, shown in longitudinal optical section. (Hatschek.) Ia. dorsal view of an embryo in which the mesoblast is beginning to form as two longitudinal folds of the' hypoblast which are becoming subdivided from before back by constrictions into separate somites. I., the same viewed in profile, showing the anterior three somites of one side, with then- cavities in free communication with the enteric cavity. The neural canal, n.c., is continued posteriorly by a neurenteric canal into the enteric cavity; ep, epiblast; hy, hypoblast. II. dorsal view of a more advanced embryo. The somites are more numerous and are completely separate. In all but the most anterior pair the communication with the enteric cavity is still seen. III., dorsal view at a still later stage. The somite cavities are now completely closed. The cellular rod, ch, shown running along the middle of the embryo is the notochord. compressed laterally, are converted into the coelom or body-cavity (serous cavities of vertebrata), the two walls of this cavity on either side forming respectively the inner and outer mesodermic layers of R. and O. Hertwig. In Sagitta. the diverticula occur in the neighbourhood of the blastopore, which is also the typical seat of origin of the mesoblast, but in Amphioxus they are formed by longitudinal folds of the wall of the archenteric cavity, which 'tow from before backwards, and become separated up into segments m then piogress. In Elasmobranchs the myotomes or protovertebrae are at an early period hollow, and the