70 THE FIRST CEREBRAL VESICLE. grey and white mutter of the island of liei 1 becomes differentiated. The rest of the wall of the hemisphere vesicle (mantle of Reichert), although remaining for a time thinner than the floor, eventually thickens to form the whole of the grey and white matter of the hemisphere, except along the line where the mesoblast, which is to form the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle, passes into the choroidal fold of the neural epiblast, which becomes thinned out over the invading mesoblast and con- verted into the epithelial covering of the plexus. The growth of the hemispheres takes place gradually. They extend at first some- what forwards and upwards, separated by a thin layer of mesoblast which forms the Fig. 79. — Transverse sections THROUGH THE BRAIN OE A sheep’s embryo of 2'7 cm. in length. (From Kolliker.) In A the section passes through the foramina of Monro, in B through tlie third and lateral ventricles some- what further back, at, corpus stria- tum ; th, optic thalamus ; t, third ventricle ; c, c', rudiment of internal capsule and corona radiata; 1, lateral ventricle with choroid plexus, pi; It, hippocampus major ; /, primitive falx ; «, orbito-sphenoid ; sa, pre- sphenoid : p, pharynx; ch, chiasma; o, optic nerve ; m, m, foramina of Monro ; to, optic tract; mk, Meckel’s cartilage. falx, but soon begin to pass progressively backwards, so that by the end of the third month they have covered the region of the optic thalami, by the fourth month they have reached the corpora quadri- gemina, and by the sixth they cover not only the corpora quadrigemina, but also a great part of the cerebellum, pro- jecting even beyond this by the end of the seventh month. In front, and for some dis- tance backward over the roof of the third ventricle, where the vesicles are not separated by the falx, their mesial sur- faces come into contact, and, during the third month, partly grow together, but in such a manner as to leave anteriorly just in front of the third ventricle, a triangular ares free in the middle, but completely surrounded at its periphery by the united parts. Thus is formed the cavity which is known as the fifth ventricle or ventiic e of n septum lucidum, which at no time has any communication with the vesicles of the cerebral hemispheres, nor with any other of the cerebral vesicles.