](> SEGMENTATION OF THE OVUM. EARLY CHANGES IN THE OVUM CONSEQUENT ON FERTILIZATION—SEGMENTATION FORMATION OF THE BLASTODERM—THE PRIMITIVE STREAK AND GROOVE. Segmentation of the ovum.—Immediately after the completion of the process of lei tilization, the ovum begins to show signs of division into two cells or segments. The division is preceded by the formation of a spindle-shaped system of achromatic Fig. 13.—FlitST STAGES OF segmentation of a MAMMALIAN OVUM: S EM 1-1)1 AG II A M M AT I C. (Drawn by Allen Thom- son after E. v. Dene- den’s description.) z.p, zona pell ucida ; p.tjl, polar globules ; a, division into two seg- ments ; net, larger and cl earer segment; cut, smaller, moregranularseg- ment ; b, stage of four seg- ments ; c, eight segments, the ectomeres partially enclosing the eutomeres ; d.e, succeeding stages of segmentation showing the more rapid division of the clearer segments and the enclosure of the darker segments by them. fibres and by changes in the nucleus which are similar to those which take place in the division of an ordinary cell (v. Histology). According to v. Beneden’s observa- tions in Ascaris these changes occur in each of the two pro-nuclei (fig. 12), and one-half the number of resulting Y-shaped filaments then passes from each to form each daughter nucleus, which thus contains male and female chromatin elements in equal amount. Each of the two segments which are thus formed speedily again divides in the same manner, so that four cells or segments now occupy the interior of the ovum. By a further process of binary division eight cells are formed, then sixteen, thirty-two, and so on until the originally simple ovum is eventually subdivided into a large number of small segments, each of which is a nucleated cell, which are aggregated into a solid spherical mass, not much larger than the original ovum, and known as the mulberry mass. The cells are not similar throughout, for those at the surface are clearer aud less granular than those which occupy the interior of the mass. According to v. Beneden’s observations in the rabbit and bat, this difference in the appearance of the cells is traceable even in the first pair of daughter cells, one of Avhich is larger and clearer than the other, which is darker and more granular (fig. 13, a).1 The cells or segments which result from the division of each of these retain their respective characters, and since the clearer cells divide somewhat more rapidly than the darker ones, there are for a time at certain stages of the process of segmen- tation more of the clear cells ; thus, at one stage there are eight clear cells, aud only four darker ones, the latter having not yet undergone division, and later there are sixteen clear cells and only eight darker cells, for the same reason. Further, it is found that as the segmentation proceeds the clearer cells occupy the superficial part of the'ovum and almost entirely enclose the granular cells which fill the interior (fig. 14, a).2 1 This statement has been denied by Kolliker and other observers, who assert that there is no difference in the size and appearance of the first segments. 2 Numerous experiments have been made in recent years with the view of determining whether the first cells which result from the division of the ovum have specific characters and give rise to specilie