LETTERS ON THE STUDY AND PRACTICE OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY, AND ON TOPICS CONNECTED WITH THE MEDICAL PROFESSION; ADDRESSED TO STODENTS AND YODNG PRACTITIONERS OF MEDICINE, TO PARENTS AND GUARDIANS, AND THE PUBLIC IN GENERAL. BY JAMES WALLACE, ASSISTANT SURGEON, R. N., AUTHOR OP " A VOYAGE TO INDIA," &C. " I have here briefly pointed out the principal causes which have retarded the progress of our science; and I have liinted at the means for promoting its greater certainty and usefulness." Lectures on Medicine^ PRINTED FOR RICHARD GRIFFIN & CO. : ADAM BLACK, EDINBURGH; AND T. & G. UNDERWOOD, LONDON. 1828.DEDICATION IN MEMORY OF THE LATE MR JOHN WALLACE OF GLASGOW, SURGEON, R.N. When I began to write the following Let- ters, I determined, if they should ever be given to the world, to dedicate them to him whose name appears above. It was at his in- stigation that I first entered on the study of Medicine; it was from him that I received many excellent lessons regarding it; and it was with him I hoped to have practised it in after-life. But ere these Letters were brought to a close, we were separated forever. He died at an early age, when he was gradually rising in his profession, and in the esteem of men. I can, therefore, only put his name on record as one departed, but as one by me ne- ver to be forgotten. Being my brother, it becomes me not to speak here of his good- ness, or of his talent. It is enough to state, that they were known and appreciated in theDEDICATION. iv circle in which he moved; and it is consol- ing to me to know, that Tiis early death caus- ed some affectionate regret, and that when his character is alluded to, he is spoken ,of as an intelligent man, and a warm-hearted ac- quaintance. JAMES WALLACE.CONTENTS. LETTER I. Page On the necessity of attending to the Disposition before fix- ing the Profession 1 LETTER IL The Importance of the Medical Profession—Requisites for its Practice, &c . . 12 LETTER in. On the age at which the Study of Medicine should be en- tered upon, and on the question. Whether a Medical Man should be generally learned 26 LETTER IV. The Course of Study 45 LETTER V. The Course of Study continued 60 LETTER VL Advice to the Student 78 LETTER VIL Books necessary for the Student 105 LETTER Vin. Advice to the Young Physician or Surgeon 122vi CONTENTS. Page. LETTER IX. Advice to the Young Physician or Surgeon continued . .144 LETTER X. On Amateur-Physicians, &c 170 LETTER XL On the impropriety of interfering with the Practice of Me- dical Men, &c. . 181 LETTER XIL On the Exhumation and Dissection of the Dead . . . .197PREFACE. It is undoubtedly of essential service to a person about to begin the study of any branch of science, to have his subject fully explained to him by one who understands it, and to have the best methods by which he can ar- rive at his knowledge clearly pointed out to him. He thus knows beforehand what he has to do, and, having a direction for each step in his progress, he is at no time left in uncertainty ; he has merely to give applica- tion, and follow the path which is marked out for him. This is essentially necessary in all things, from the boy who is beginning his earliest lessons, to the matured man who is seeking to become acquainted with the most intricate parts of learning. There must be something to guide them, whether it be a book or a friend, through the difficulties of their tasks, or their progress will not only be slow, but it will also be imperfect. It is im-PREFACE. Vlll possible to get to the knowledge of a science, except by the one proper path. We may be- come acquainted with parts of it, or we may even get an imperfect knowledge of the whole, by merely taking our own judgment as our guide, as we proceed to meddle with its in- tricacies ; but we save a great deal of time, and we accumulate infinitely more knowledge, if we at once seek the advice of persons wis- er than ourselves, and submit to be led by them so long as we stand in need of teaching. In Medicine, this is especially necessary, be- cause Medicine is a complicated science, re- quiring great judgment, and great attention on the part of the pupil. It is a science made up of so many branches, (each branch, indeed, forming a science of itself,) requiring so much order in its study, and so much skill in its cultivators, that it is out of the question to think of acquiring it without having reference to some instructor. Its parts are so numer- ous, and its path so extensive, that we can never hope to find the way in it ourselves ; and so much depends upon keeping in the right path—upon meddling with each part atPREFACE. ix the proper time, and devoting to it the due portion of labour—that we must of necessity have a guide to direct us, if we would learn it perfectly. And yet, there are a great many who enter upon this very nice and intricate piece of learnino; without instructors, and without al- most any preparation for it whatever. Young men come in from the country, every season, to study Medicine at our Universities, who have not only little natural talent, but even that talent which they have has not at all been prepared for the work they are to en- gage in. They have been told, perhaps, by some practitioner in their neighbourhood, what classes they ought to attend, and what books they ought to procure, but they have re- ceived no regular code of instructions for their guidance, and they must rely upon their own judgment for all that they may do in the win- ter. Or, perhaps, when they arrive in town, they seek amongst the other students for in- struction, many of whom are no better in- formed than themselves ; and thus they are led astray in the beginning, and continue toPREFACE. X be led astray to the very end of the session. It is only when they get farther knowledge in the business, or perhaps when they happen to compare notes with students better inform- ed, that they find out how much they have been deceived. I have known many fall in- to this error; and he who is so unfortunate as to be led into a mistake of this kind, will regret it forever, when he comes to be sen- sible of the time and opportunities which have so unprofitably gone by. In those parts of learning, where the pupil is immediately under the eye and direction of the master, it is scarcely necessary that he should have any assistance except the teach- er's ; indeed, in some cases it might be po- sitively injurious for another to interfere. When it is so managed, that the scholar comes in actual contact with the preceptor at every lesson—when he can enter into familiar dis- course with him at every time he meets him, and seek his assistance whenever he finds him- self in difficulty—then there is no need for ei- ther a friend or a book to instruct; he has mere- ly to walk by the master's advice. But as it isxi PREFACE. the case, in studying Medicine, that the stu- dent never, perhaps, exchanges a word with the teacher from the beginning of the course to the end of it—from the time he purchases his ticket of attendance till he goes to get his attendance certified—I say there is great need for his having some other guide than the teacher to help him on in his studies. I am far from saying that teachers of Medicine will not give the necessary advice to the pupils when it is asked of them. I know many who are glad to do this. But it is not the custom to ask it of them, unless there be some little acquaintanceship between the parties ; and even then, from the fear of giving trouble, we sometimes keep from asking what we are really anxious to know. It is necessary, therefore, that the student should have a book of instructions to render him in some measure independent of every one. In case he should have no friend to direct him, he should then have a book as a directory, which will at any rate give him an idea of the path he should walk in. And what I here say does not alone apply to medicine. In many other sciencesPREFACE. Xll the learners stand much in need of some good books of reference. • After a good deal of reflection upon these matters, I formed the resolution of putting a few thoughts together on Medical Education. I resolved upon the thing when I was myself at College, but many things, until lately, pre- vented me from carrying my plan into exe- cution. In the following Letters I have en- tered pretty extensively into the subject. I have given the student ample directions re- garding the classes he ought to attend—the order of his studies—the books he ought to procure—the attention due to each subject, &c.; and I have followed this up by advice to him as a young physician or surgeon, when he has entered on the practice of his profes- sion, and has the lives and health of society in his hands. Previous, however, to direct- ing my attention to the student, I have ad- dressed some advice to the parent and guardian on the disposition and talents which a surgeon ought to possess—the age at which the study of Medicine should be begun—the learning which the medical student should have be-XU PREFACE. sides his medical learning, &c. And, after having got done with the student and sur- geon, I then give some hints to the public in general on the study of Medicine as a part of a liberal education—on the conduct of the pub- lic towards medical men in the practice of their profession—and on the opinions which prevail in society regarding the exhumation and dissection of the dead. It will be easy, without any farther instruction, for each party concerned to pick out what particularly re- lates to them ; but it will do no harm to mention, that the three first Letters are in- tended for the parent and guardian ; the four following these for the student; the next two for the young physician or surgeon ; and the last three for the public in general. How- ever, I trust even the whole book may be perused with some little advantage by all or either of the parties. The student and young surgeon may not be the worse for readino" it all ; and though to the others some parts of It may not be very interesting, yet if they take any interest in medical science, they may perhaps find time to glance at the whole.xiv PREFACE. At the same time, I am perfectly sensible of the many imperfections which exist in the work. I am satisfied that the majority of me- dical men would have executed the task bet- ter than I have done ; but I have at any rate made an attempt at something useful, and if it should serve the purpose till a better work appears, I shall have accomplished what I had in view. Perhaps some one more cap- able will produce from these imperfect hints a more useful book ; and if this happens, though the present volume should then be al- together forgotten, it will have had its use. He who projects is sometimes deserving of as much praise as he who actually carries in- to execution ; for without the hint from the humble originator, the subject might have re- mained unthought of, and its execution, of course, could not have happened. These letters were written in 1826, while I was attached to H. M. ship Ocean, at that time lying in the Tagus. The writing of them beguiled some hours, which otherwise miffht have been tedious ; and whatever their fate may be, I shall not regret the time spent IXV PREFACE. in composing them. I have even profited by them myself; and if others also find some- thing in them useful, I am amply rewarded for my trouble. J. W. Glasgow, 25tli September 1828.! «LETTER I. ON THE NECESSITY OF ATTENDING TO THE DISPOSI- TION BEFORE FIXING THE PROFESSION. Lisbon^ April, 1826. " I have seen a book written by Juan Huartes, a Spanish physician, entitled ' Examen de Ingenios,' wherein he lays it down as one of his first positions, that nothing but nature can qualify a man for learning; and that without a proper temperament for the particular art or science which he studies, his utmost pains and application, assisted by the ablest masters, will be to no purpose." Spedaior. All the prudent agree, that in the choice of a wife, the individual should be allowed to judge for himself, and that nothing should be done contrary to inclination. That man is not likely to be blessed in his choice, who will allow, at the season when he thinks on marrying, relatives or friends to have any undue influence over him. That man, indeed, hardly deserves to be happy, who would make his marriage a matter of interest or convenience, and give his hand where his heart is not, merely because he thinks the connection is to be in some way beneficial to AON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 2 him.—How could he be happy ? How could it be expected that the parties thus brought together would have any thing like true con- jugal felicity ? Was it to be supposed, that two united, not so much by their own desires as by the desires of others, would be well suited to each other ? Can the heart which gives itself away only for gain, ever be sup- posed to amalgamate with the one which gives itself away only for love? Can there be affection after union, if it does not exist before ? Never. Two individuals thus united may preserve, it is true, even through life, all the outward forms of decency; but to them can never come that warmer and more de- voted attachment which is characteristic of the pair who have been drawn together by natural affection only. They jog on together on the road of life, just because they are obliged to do so—just because they are tacked together, and the tacking is of such a nature that, when once made, it cannot easily be undone—but they travel with uncongenial feelings ; their path is heartless ; and it would have been better for both had they never known each other. So, in the choice of a profession, should the will be left altogether without restraint;ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 3 or, if violence be done here, exactly as in the other case, unhappy consequences will ensue. The individual,because it is the profession he has been wedded to, may follow it; but he never will have the proper success or comfort in it: because he is bound to it, as the man is bound to his wife—because he has learned it, and learned no other—he may stick to it, but he sticks to it in some degree with a grudge, and he never can prosecute it with the ardour that another does who is devoted to it. Others not possessing half the ability that he does, get on far more suc- cessfully, and go far a-head of him in his line —and why ? —^Just because he cannot bring his ability to apply here—he has not been fitted for this profession—this is not the occupation congenial with his feelings—this is not the ground upon which he is to be stimulated to effort—therefore he cannot compete in the cause. They may surpass him who will, for here he is not ambitious to try his strength. Like the ill-assorted pair, he may keep to his profession through life, but, like them also, he will keep to it without any strong attachment. He may plod in it; because he must plod, but there will be an apathy in his plodding; and, as the man and4 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. wife would have been better separate, so would he have been better had this not been his occupation. Surely, then, it should be a point with those who have the allotting of youth to professions, to leave them in a great measure, if not indeed altogether, to themselves. There ought to be a sounding of the disposition—a trial of the inclination—in the first place—in order to see how the feelings run. This should be done before any particular advice is given ; and then when it is ascertained how the bent of the mind is, unless the feelings are evi- dently leading somewhere astray, the indivi- dual should be indulged, and allowed to fix, by his own wish, his line of life. This it is especially necessary to attend to, as regards the three learned professions. In Divinity, Law, and Physic, I hold that there is an imperative necessity on us to watch and see that they who are admitted into them, come with the pro- per capacity, and be qualified for what they are to undertake. For these are professions, all of them, in which much talent, and many peculiar requisites, are necessary, and he that does not possess this talent and these peculiar requisites, is incapable of practising them as he ought. They have to be prosecuted with5 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. such assiduity and research^ that it is not all who are fitted for the necessary labour, and they involve interests of so high an order that it is our duty to be assured that only those who are fitted be allowed to engage in them. But, further, I have to observe, that Medicine, of all the three^ is most deserving of our attention. For, in as much as we value our life more than our property, we will scru- tinize our physician more narrowly than our lawyer. And, although it be admitted that the care of the soul is ever to take place of the care of the body, still, it is known that we can change our divine, if we find him not so ca- pable, or so careful of us, as he ought to be; but ere we can change our physician—ere we can make trial of another cure in that way, we may be out of the reach of all phy- sicians—out of the reach of all help. So, upon these accounts, it is incumbent on us, while we carefully watch over all, espe- cially to watch over Physic. There seems, indeed, of late years, a kind of mania to have got amongst families, to have their sons, right or wrong, brought into the learned professions. Almost every family now must have at least one son a surgeon, and, perhaps, a second a lawyer, and, it may be.6 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. ♦ a third a clergyman ; or, very often, two are found in one family of the same profession— nay, I have even known three, the one fol- lowing the other. Even the poor man now who has scarcely enough to maintain his fa^ mily in a moderate way, must, at any rate, by some means or other, send one of his sons to college, and make a professional man of him. Instead of putting him to some occupation, for which he is better calculated, and where, from the first, he would be bringing in to his father's assistance a return for his labour, the father scrapes together all the means in his power, and stints himself and all the other members of his house, to pro- cure for this son a college education. Instead of putting him to a respectable trade, by which he would secure to him a moderate livelihood for life, he sends him to learn branches of knowledge for which, probably, he has neither taste nor talent. And what is the consequence ? Why, when he has finished his curriculum of education, he goes back to his father's house but half learned, there to remain unemployed, and to be him- self, along with the rest of his family, perhaps through life in difficulty. And thus it is that many a respectable family has been keptON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 7 in poverty for evef, without any actual good accruing from it. And thus it is that our colleges are so continually kept crowded with people who are unequal to their tasks—with people who ought not to be there. In short, it is thus that our pulpits have become filled with preachers who, though they may be pious, get but few listeners, and our courts with lawyers who, though they may be ho- nest, get but few clients, and our towns and villages with surgeons who, though they may be in many respects excellent men, get hardly a patient. But let me not be misunderstood; 1 ant not objecting at all to the number that are ad- mitted into the learned professions. I would not keep any one out who has the necessary talent, and an inclination to get in. And as far am I from discountenancing the merito- rious efforts of the poor man who is anxious to give his son a good education, and get him set prominently forth in society. For I know that it is by competition that talent is elicited; and I know that it has not seldom been the sons of poor men who have gone farthest in learning, and who have most distinguished themselves even in the mostON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 8 difficult of sciences. But what I wish to impress is, that we should discriminate in the matter—that we should just make those me- dical men who are fitted to be medical men —those lawyers who are fitted to be lawyers —those clergymen who are fitted to be cler- gymen—and those who are fitted for none of these things, to be something else. This is all I stand up for. And when I argue thus, I am not only arguing for the good of the profession, but for the good of all. Be- cause when persons are put to do what they never were intended for, they, of course, tannot be expected to do it well, and error and evil must ensue. However much it may be our wish or our interest to put a child to a particular calling, yet if it be evident to us that he will never succeed well in that parti- cular calling, surely it is a pity to force him to it. And however much I may admire the noble ambition of the father who would put himself to distress, and think not of it, in order that he might get his son to some ex- alted station, I must not refrain from telling him, that while he is doing himself an injury, he is doing his son no good—^that while he is impoverishing himself, he is not enrichingON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 9 his son, unless it has been proven that the son is equal to the office he is aspiring to. It often happens that we can see, from a very early period, in the age of a boy, that the mind is turned to some particular profes- sion. We can see that there is a leaning to some particular thing; and when we look at the habits and powers of the boy, we find that this is just the thing for which he is best fitted. In such cases there can be no diffi- culty—there can be no hesitation in fixing the occupation. All that the parent now has to do, is gradually to prepare and lead on his child, by talking to him occasionally of the profession for which he is intended, and giv- ing him all the information he can concern- ing it. By alluding, every now and then, to the labours which by and bye he is to enter upon, he prepares him in some measure for them; by making him familiar with some of the secrets of his business beforehand, he is not so likely afterwards to be taken by sur- prise. But it also fi-equently happens that an individual shows no particular attachment to any profession, even when he has arrived at the age of maturity, and then it is not just such an easy matter to decide properly. Of10 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. course, the first thing to be done is, to reflect on the genius and the peculiarities of mind which the individual possesses. His habits should be looked into. His passions, and pro- pensities, and powers both of body and mind should be examined. And when we have fixed on the occupation which we think will suit him, then the nature of it should be as fully as possible set before him, in order that he may still have it in his power to draw oflP, if he thinks the task will be more than he is able for. He should have the hardships which he will have to encounter stated to him ; the sacrifices, as well as the gains—the disagreeable parts, as well as the agreeable ones, should be brought fully forward ; and now when he is told of all these, if he chooses to go on with it, let him go; he knows what the labour is, and as he has accepted it wil- lingly, we, of course, expect that he will perform it to the utmost of his ability. But never should the parent make his will the guide, or use undue persuasion in the matter. A dutiful child will, no doubt, obey the wishes of his parent, even to the sacrifice of his feelings; but the chance is, that both parent and son will discover, when too late.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 11 that they have seriously erred—the one in commanding, and the other in giving his consent. Note.—I am not yet phrenologist enough to determine whether the science of phrenology is to be at all a help to us in this matter. The advocates for the science say it will; but I am not sure that all they assert is correct, being a little sceptical as to the correctness and perfectability of their system. Time, however, which makes us better acquainted with all things, will show its truth or fallacy.LETTER 11. THE IMPORTANCE OF THE MEDICAL PROFESSION- REQUISITES FOR ITS PRACTICE, &c. Lisbon, April, 1826. " Though now we must appear bloody and cruel. As, by our hands, and this our present act. You see we do; yet see you but our hands. And this, the bleeding business they have done— Our hearts you see not—they are pitiful." Shakspeare. For the successful prosecution of any profes- sion, talent is required. It will hold good, I believe, that in all trades, the man of genius, if he has the same diligence, will get a-head of the man who has no genius. For there is no art so simple as to be alike plain to all, nor so fully explored as not to leave yet very considerable room for the exercise of inge- nuity in those who have it. The person with the superior mind, will be the person with the superior knowledge, even in the commonest of occupations. That is un- doubted. But it is well known, that there are certain occupations which do not requireON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 13 very much talent—that there are certain things for which almost every one is eligible —certain trades, which do not at all require any great exercise of mind, but where com- mon sense and common diligence are enough —and where, when the lessons are once learned, the learner may be said to be master of his trade ; and though he may not stand in the first rank of those of his profession— though he may not be capable of showing in it all the ingenuity which others may show —still, he is quite qualified as to all its es- sential parts, and is just as able to carry it on as the mass of his brethren.—While it is as well known, that there are certain other oc- cupations, in which a gj^eat deal of talent is required—in which the learner, if he be not in possession of a certain degree of acuteness, and a certain superiority of understanding, will never make any advances towards the point he is aiming at, and he never will be able to emerge from amongst the lowest and the most insignificant of his profession. For, in the prosecution of these occupations, it is solely the mind which has to be tried, and without the necessary talent, nothing, at least nothing of any consequence, can be done.— For the first class of occupations, men of or-14 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. dinary minds will do. But for the last class, they must be men of superior minds. Now, at the head of these last occupations, I place Medicine; next to it I put Law ; and following that, Divinity; and that I am right in ranging them thus, I hope I can satisfac- torily show. Divinity, without any disparagement to it, appears to me to be in some degree like the first class of occupations. That is, there are merelv lessons to be learned—there is a course of study to go through-^and he that can bring with him just enough of talent and assiduity to learn these lessons, and finish this course of study, has learned his profes- sion—his work is, as it were, done. It is true that the lessons to be learned are not rightly to be learned by every one, but that a certain strength and superiority of intellect properly to compass them is required, which gives to the student of Divinity, as well as to the student of Law or Medicine, an oppor- tunity for the display of talent. And it is true, that even when the course of study has been gone through, the clergyman has still a mighty field to labour in, and if he possess an acute and original muid, he may distin- guish himself as much, or more, by what heON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 15 does after mounting the pulpit, as by what he did before. But it is also true, that he who has just that ability which enables him s,ufficiently to understand, and properly to expound, the doctrines of the gospel, is qua- lified to become a preacher. If he add piety and fervour to this, he may do all the good which the best of clergymen have done; it is not required of him, unless he feels himself fitted for the task, to engage in any very deep or difficult exercise. But with the professor of Law it is very different. He has not only a long course of study to go through, and a great many lessons also to learn, and a great many difficulties to over- come, but it is when he has finished what is called his course of study, that he may have to encounter his greatest difficulties, and that his judgment, and the exercise of his mind, may come most severely to be tried. Al- though he may learn, during the course of his study, all that it is possible for him to learn, yet when he comes to enter upon his profession, he finds he has not learned enough. He has difficulty in applying his Law. Cases occur which he is not altoge- ther clear about, and with all his learning, he is sometimes at a stand. So, Law de-16 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. serves, on this account, a precedence to Di- vinity. And still, it is different with the professor of Physic. For not only has he to learn, as the others, by study, all the first lessons of his art, and, like the lawyer, put them in practice after he has finished his studies, but he has to put his judgment to work at once, and upon the most trying oc- casions. He has no time to lose—death or life hangs on a moment—and what is to be done must be done quickly. The lawyer, if there be any difficulty in his case, can de- lay. He can wait either till he makes up his own mind, or till he has the opinion of others. And though the physician can in some cases do this also, in others he cannot. He may have to decide at once, and by him- self too, upon a case which requires the ut- most discrimination ; and what he does once can never be undone again. This makes a wonderful difference between his duty and that of both the others. And, therefore, Medicine surely deserves the first place, and those who embrace it ought certainly to be the most talented. It may be difficult to explain exactly what are the requisites for a physician. But it will not be difficult, even by attending toON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 17 what has already been said, to find out what are the chief requisites. He must have a natural quickness of parts—a ready percep- tion—a sound judgment—a good memory. He must have about him that degree of so- lidity which is characteristic of a mind given to thought, and also that degree of acuteness which is characteristic of the mind that can turn its thoughts to account. He must have in his character a degree of boldness and determination rather above what is ordinarily given to men, for he will be called upon often to exercise this boldness, and if he has it not, he will make a bad physician. He should be mild in disposition, but at the same time he should be ready to combat the opinions of men, and make a stand against their prejudices wherever he thinks it neces- sary. He must be able to evince his bold- ness and his coolness, too, at all times. He must not be one that will lose his presence of mind on any emergency, or be agitated when he gets into difficulty ; but, on the contrary, he must be cool and firm on all occasions, and be ready, even at the most appalling and unexpected case, to put in practice what it may be necessary to do. His body must be strong as his mind, for in BON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 18 his practice he ma^ have much fatigue, and if he has not a body well fitted to stand this fatigue, it will suffer, and his mind of course will suffer with his body. He must have a good eye, and a steady hand. He must be patient in labour, and diligent in research; one who is ready to resign all for his profes- sion, and who is constantly on the look out for what may add to his knowledge of it. And, above all, he must have shown that early attachment—that innate Hking to his profession, which is so generally shown by those who rise to eminence in it. It will not be enough that he is talented—that he is firm, and diligent, and patient, in what he sets his mind to—but he must evince a par- ticular attachment to medicine—a fondness for it above all othei' things. This is indeed the great criterion by which to judge. For if the student does not show something of this disposition—if he does not show some- thing of this particular fondness, he is not likely ever to rise to the summit of his pro- fession. In a word, if the physician is not in possession of all, or nearly all, of the re- quisites which I have now mentioned, he is not well fitted for his occupation, and he never will be on a level with the distinguishedON MEDICAL EDUCATION, <&C. 19 of his brethren. He may practice, but he will be an inferior practitioner ; and he will practice neither with profit to himself, nor with safety to his patient. People are frequently heard to say, that they are sure they never would do to be phy- sicians or surgeons. If these people see a little blood, or a gaping cut, or if they be taken into an hospital to be present at an operation, or into an anatomical theatre to witness the dissection of a human body, they are seized with a shrinking and horror, which can only be removed by removing them from the offending objects. The very sight of pa- tients ranged in the wards of an hospital, al- though there should be nothing at all in the appearance of these patients to affect the feel- ings, is enough to make them turn faint and pale, and with all the courage which they can muster up, they cannot remain long spectators of the unfortunate subjects of disease. Now, we are in the habit of saying to these people —" Oh, this is all because you are not used to it—you have come here for the first time, and not having seen any thing like this be- fore, you are a little shocked at it; it is natu- ral to be so. But if you were continuing to go these rounds with us for a few months, you20 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. would come to be just as we are. Habit would reconcile you completely to it, and you would learn to look on disease without expe- riencing any uneasiness." And when we say this, we say, in the majority of instances, what is correct. Almost all have a natural horror to the shedding of blood, and to the looking upon death and disease, which, how- ever, when they have been a little accustomed to such scenes, wears off, and they become quite capable of looking upon almost any scene of distress. And many of those peo- ple who maintain that they never could be made surgeons, I am perfectly satisfied, by proper tutorage might be made very good surgeons. But at the same time, I am satis- fied that some of them, and perhaps not a few of them, never could follow Medi- cine as a profession ; that is, they never could follow it with success or comfort. There are some people who can never get over this natural reluctance to look upon the sufferings of humanity. They master it in so far, but they cannot master it altogether, and though they themselves may believe that they have got nearly altogether over it, yet others who are looking on can see that much of it still remains. How is it that so many even ofON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 21 our old surgeons, cannot take the knife in their hand to perform any serious operation, without being considerably agitated ? How is it that the hand is seen slightly to tremble,and the face to betray a good deal of anxiety, while the patient is suffering under the knife of the operator? How is it that so many feel so much when they are called to a severe case of disease or accident, as to be nearly bewildered, and scarcely to know what to set about first? How is it that some have an antipathy to dissection, and wish rather to look on than put their own hands to ? How is it that some would rather forgo dissection altogether than have much to do with the dead body ? Are not these tremblings and antipathies just the remains of their over-sensitiveness ? Is not this just the too-feminine disposition clinging to them through life ? Certainly it is : and they never, however much they may attempt to shake it off, will be able to get altogether rid of it. These people, in fact, should never have been brought up to Medi- cine. If I may be allowed the expression, they have too amiable—too weak—a heart for it, and they should have been put to something for which they were better calcu- lated. God forbid that I should charge me-22 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. dical men with hard-heartednes, or that I should recommend only the callous and hard- hearted to be put to practice Medicine. I hold that medical men, generally speaking, amid all the misery which they are doomed to see, possess feelings as fine, and as sym- pathising, as they who never looked upon suffering. And I say, further, that he who possesses an unfeeling and unamiable mind is ill calculated to practise Physic with suc- cess. At the same time I have to state, that with fine feelings, there must also be a cer- tain strength and determination of mind. The heart that is too yielding and too shrink- ing—that is too easily acted upon by dis- tressing and appalling events—will not do. There should be a dash of boldness in the disposition, rather than any tincturing of pu- silanimity ; although I again repeat that hard- heartedness is not required. And until this is attended to, there will always be a mass of indifferent surgeons. There will be good, of course, but there will be more bad ; and it is a pity that such should be the case, when by a little attention—by a moderate degree of care—the evil might in some measure be pre- vented. If it were duly considered how responsibleON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 23 a situation the physician holds, and how im- portant a part he has to perform, and how difficult it often is to perform this part well, there would be more hesitation shown than we generally see shown ere the profession was embraced. If it were remembered that upon his opinions and acts depend the lives of fellow men, and that according as. he is well or ill qualified for his part, he is either a blessing or a curse to mankind, parents would hesitate more than they do ere they advised their children to a profession so res- ponsible, and the children themselves, if at all come to years, would hesitate as much as the parents. If it were properly impressed upon men, that not only may torturing disease be protracted, but that even death itself may ensue—that the wife may be made a widow, and the children fatherless, and af- fliction sent on a whole circle—by ignorance, when by proper interference no calamity would have come, surely more attention should be given to Medicine, and those only should be put to it who are likely to be qua- lified for it; by which two great purposes would be served—namely, the health and lives of society would be better preserved,ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 24 and the respectability and superiority of the profession would be better maintained. And it comes all to the same thing in the end. There will be the same number of me- dical men, and the same number of lawyers, and the same number of clergymen, and the same number of every other profession—only, they will be differently placed. We cannot all get into the learned professions—some must remain out; that is certain. And he who is obliged to remain out should not per- haps think himself the worst off, for he maybe so distinguished in the art which he attaches himself to, as to gain far more of the admi- ration and attention of men, than they who are engaged in what are termed the learned professions. Some other professions now are about as learned as the professions of Phy- sic, Law, or Divinity. There is as much room in them for the display of genius, and for the accumulation of knowledge ; and mankind pay as much, if not more, respect to them. Therefore, he who adopts another occupation, because he finds it to tally better with his inclination, instead of demeaning himself, may add to his respectability by it. Nor should the father who has a son that will thwart his wishes, and attach himself toON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 25 an occupation which he (the father) does not exactly like, complain, or urge the son too earnestly, for he may see reason, after a time, to be thankful that the son made such a choice. In short, as I have already said, if it be possible at all, let the individual fix his own occupation, for thus he is likeliest to be happiest himself, and to be most useful to society.LETTER III. THE AGE AT WHICH THE STUDY OF MEDICINE SHOULD BE ENTERED UPON, AND ON THE QUES- TION, WHETHER A MEDICAL MAN SHOULD BE GENERALLY LEARNED. Lisbon, May, 1826. " He cultivated a complete knowledge of the English Language, and became so great a proficient in the polite and elegant literature of this country, that the British Poets, particularly Shakspeare, Pope, and Thomson, were as familiar to him as his favourite authors. Ho- mer and Virgil. He read almost every work of reputed merit, whe- ther of Physic, Moral Philosophy, Belles Lettres, Voyages, or even Novels and Romances, which the various presses of Europe from time to time produced." Life of Zimmerman. It is certainly a bad thing to put children to trades at too early an age—Until a boy has reached the age of fifteen or sixteen years, un- less there be something which imperiously demands it, he should not be put to any trade. For until he arrives at this time of life, he is not to be supposed capable of judging well for himself; his faculties are not matured, and he cannot be expected to exercise them to the best advantage. If he is put to a trade before this age, there is aOiSr MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 27 considerable probability that he will make a wrong choice—that he will not hit exactly on the trade for which he is best suited— but even allowing him to make the proper choice, and to get exactly into the occupation for which nature intended him, he cannot be expected, with an intellect so young, to do much good in it. He will do more in one year after he arrives at sixteen, than he will do in three before (I speak generally ; there are exceptions of course). And besides, by putting children so very young to a profes- sion, we take them away too soon from their school studies, and the chances are that they never recur to their school learnino; ao-ain ; nay, they even forget the little they may have learned. When we are fairly set down in life, when we have once got the burden of an occupation on our shoulders, our school studies generally stop, and if we have not laid in our stock of learning before beginning the world, we are not very likely to do it af- terwards. The labour of the occupation is enough, and though we may have the time, yet we too often want the inclination to do much else. But as a considerable share of learning is now not only an ornamental, but an useful and necessary appendage to an in-ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 28 dividual, whatever may be the trade he fol- lows, surely this learning should always be supplied in the first place. The boy should be allowed to finish, ere he puts his hands to a trade, all that which is properly termed schooling; and this he will do just about the time we have mentioned. Then he is, as it were, fully prepared to enter upon his calling. His intellect is matured ; he knows what to take up for a trade ; and he knows how to apply himself after he has taken it up. There are, no doubt, many cases, unhappily, where this cannot be attended to, where the hands must labour ere they are very strong, and where much learning must be dispensed with. But when it can be attended to, it ought; and though to some it may appear that wait- ing to such an age is time lost, he that con- siders it well will be convinced that it is time gained. But the youth who is to be brought up to the profession of Physic, must be even more than fifteen or sixteen years. This is an age which I have allowed will do to begin most professions, but there are some for which it will not suit, and Medicine is certainly one of them. He that enters upon the study of Medicine at fifteen years, enters upon it tooON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 29 young, and this he will find out when he has finished his education, and is ready to enter upon the field of practice. For Medicine is a science which cannot, and which should not, be studied till the powers of the mind have been very fully developed ; till the weaker feelings of the boy have given place to the stronger feelings of the man ; and when the mind can comprehend, and turn well to account, all the varied subjects which are to be brought before it. It is a science which is not to be studied by the weak, for though it abounds with beauty and interest, it also abounds with depths and difficulties, so that even the most ripened mind has a difficulty in doing justice to it. Society is indeed not aware of the evil which has ensued from sending children to medical schools. They are sent there while they are yet in possession of their school-boy disposition, when they really do not know the value of what they are sent to learn, and their progress and dili- gence are just what we would expect them to be. They listen to the lecturer, but they cannot be properly impressed by what he says. If his theme be quite clear and in- teresting, then they probably hearken with attention, and probably with some profit30 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. But if, on the contrary, it be abstruse, al- though still it may be deserving of all their attention, they give no attention to it; they are wishing him done long before the hour expires ; like the school-boy, they are anxious to get to play again.—Well, the years pass over them—At an early age they finish their education, and are ready to go forth into the world as medical men. But what are their feelings now. They feel that they are but ill qualified to act the part for which they are said to be prepared. They know that in undertaking the treatment of dangerous and difficult disease, they undertake what is in a measure to them darkness and uncer- tainty. They are conscious of the blunders (serious ones too) which they may commit when they begin to exercise their calling, and they are ever in fear of having their ignorance exposed. They keep back from the society of the better-informed, and avoid all trials of skill, being satisfied of their own inferiority. In a word, they feel, that when they were finishing they ought only to have been beginning their education, and they will regret to the end of their professional lives the early age at which they were put to the study of Medicine.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 31 No doubt, much may be done after what is called the term of our education has passed away. By reading, and by conversation, and attentive observation, and an anxiety to gain knowledge in every possible way, no doubt, a man may in after years make up for valua- ble time lost in youth ; he may acquire much knowledge, and become very learned in his profession, if he is diligent, even though he leaves college rather ignorant. Nevertheless, it is true, that the most profitable time for study is when we are really at school, that is, if we are old enough rightly to understand the doctrines which are taught us. There is a difficulty, as I have before said, both as regards time and inclination, in studying deeply after we arrive at a certain age, and it is but a few men who can apply themselves assiduously to school studies after having once left them. Let the thirst for knowledge be but once a little quenched, and it is no very easy matter fully to excite it again ; let the golden season of college education once be lost, and no after seasons of labour will altogether compensate for it. The good foundation must be laid then, or probably it never will be laid at all. Therefore, we ought not to send the medical candidate to college32 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. till he is properly prepared for it; till his mind is so completely matured that he can give every attention to his subjects, and make the most of his years of study. It is only when he can fully comprehend, and has ac- quired steadiness enough to give the neces- sary diligence to the multitude of things which he has to search into, that he should be put to such an intricate and laborious study. Generally speaking, I would say that it is early enough to send him to it at seventeen or eighteen years of age. I am not sure that this is even age enough, but I am, at any rate, certain that younger than this is too young; and the father who will transgress, and put his son to study it at an earlier age, if he lives to see the progress of his education, will find out when it is too late the error he has committed. And, indeed, it is needless to send those who are destined for the study of Medicine to study it too soon. For as they cannot be admitted to examination, or be allowed to practice either Physic or Surgery till they are twenty-one years of age, it can be no saving of time to send them to it very young. Many people finish their medical studies in four years ; some in three; and, of course, withON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 33 them seventeen or eighteen will just be the age at which they may begin. But even granting that five years are to be spent at the medical classes (which is the period we mean to recommend), still I do not think that there will be any time actually lost by wait- ing to begin at the age recommended; because not only will the student be better able to understand what he is learning, but he may be young enough even at the age of twenty-two or twenty-three to enter upon the public practice of his profession. It is a serious error to send the boy too soon to study Mediicine, and it is perhaps a more serious error still, to send the man too soon to practice it.* It is well known thafe, now-a-days, what- ever may be the profession which an indi- vidual embraces, it is expected that he will have a certain portion of learning distinct from his profession. It is indeed necessary that he should have this, for it is by this dis- tinct learning that he is prepared (in nine professions out of ten) readily to understand the principles, and in the end acquire a per- fect knowledge of his occupation. And, be- * In Taris candidates for the degree of M. D., must have attained the age of twenty-five.34 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. sides being so useful in this respect, it is so ornamental, and so generally found now among men, that he who is without it, though he may not acknowledge it, must feel the want of it very severely. Yet, it is main- tained by a few that the medical man has no need of any extra learning. His profession, they say, is learned enough, and if he burdens himself with more, he burdens himself with what he cannot well bear. For his profes- sion requires the whole of his time and atten- tion, and if he gives any of his time to other things, he must of course in some measure neglect his profession, and thus he does an injury both to himself, and to those who may have to consult him for his medical know- ledge. In a word, they say a medical man has no need of other knowledge, and he has no business to meddle with other knowledge, save that which is in some way connected with his medical concerns ; and that he who keeps aloof from all extraneous employment, will in general be found to be the best prac- titioner. They admit that a moderate know- ledge of the Latin language maybe required, because many of the terms of the science are derived from this language. And they also admit that the general learning which boys35 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. are put in possession of at school may be necessary. But with this, namely, with a knowledge of Latin, with a knowledge of the common rudiments of learning, with fair abilities and application, and with a sufficient knowledge of the language he is taught in, (say English,) the student is quite prepared to enter upon the study of Medicine. It mat- ters not though he should be ignorant of all other sciences—though he should not even know that other sciences exist. His business is with Medicine, and to that alone he is to apply. Now, we cannot go so far as to deny in toto these assertions. It must be admitted, that Medicine is a study so extensive, and complicated that it may well occupy the whole of our time and labour : that, thouiih we should exclude all other things, we will find enough here to ponder upon even to the end of life. And we will go so far as to ad- mit, that a person with good abilities, and with good sense and diligence, though he be little acquainted with general science and general learning, may make a very tolerable medical man. But, as to admitting: that general learning is not absolutely advanta- geous to the person who studies Medicine,36 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. and that he who has it will not go before him, even of the same ability, who has it not, this is what no man of sense can ever subscribe to. When it can be proven that the under- standing is not improved and cultivated by learning, and when it can be shown that the mind is not improved and expanded by hav- ing the beauties and intricacies of science and language opened up to it, then let us be told that the illiterate man can make the same progress in a profession with the learned one—but not till then. Why, the mind of even the man of ability, is as a waste, throw- ing out only wild weeds, till the cultivating hand of learning has done its work upon it; but no sooner is this done, than it becomes a soil fitted for the reception of fruit, which fruit vegetates, and multiplies, and gives out after- wards abundantly. Without a portion of this cultivating,it is impossible thatany thing great can be achieved. There is no difficult science properly to be understood, without some little acquaintance with many of the other sciences. For each science hangs so much upon another, and the laws of the one are brought so con- tinually to explain and illustrate the laws of the other, that if we only know the one we are labouring at, with all our labour, we will37 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. only be able to get an imperfect knowledge of it. They form, in truth, so complete a circle, that they cannot be disjointed. There- fore, the practitioner of Medicine must know more than Medicine if he means to stand as a first rank man in his profession. He must have laboured *it other branches of learning, as well as at that learning which teaches him how to treat disease^ if he wishes to be de- serving of the appellation of a pi^opei'li/ learned man. And, as to the argument, that he has no time to give to other things ; that he has enough to do in his profession without burdening himself with any thing else ; it is futile. Why, it is not when the medical man is either studying or practising Medicine that he is to gain this additional knowledge. It is not when his mind is intent upon, and distracted with the various opinions and facts of his profession, that he is expected to be plodding at the secrets and difficulties of other parts of learning ? No, he is to have all this knowledge before he begins to Medi- cine. The store of extra learning is to be laid in previous to his eighteenth year. And then, when he comes to begin his medical labours, all that he has to do is, to keep his acquirements in remembrance, which, with a38 ON MEDICAL EUDCATION, &C. very little trouble, and without mispending any of his time, he can easily do. He can keep up his knowledge of other sciences, at the same time that he prosecutes his own science with the utmost fidelity and ardour. And the benefit which such additional learn- ing will be to him, will reward him well for the trouble he has had in gaining it. Independent of the advantage which a general acquaintance with learning is to a medical man, in enabling him to acquire a correct and perfect knowledge of his profes- sion, it is of infinite advantage to him in his dealings with society. We invariably think the more of a man the more general his at- tainments are. We think but little of the man who can talk about nothing save that which he is daily plodding at—who cannot enter into discourse except it be on the par- ticular thing which is his occupation. And if we were choosing a physician, allowing there were two of the same ability in Medicine, but the one far surpassed the other in other attainments, would we not pitch upon the one that was most generally learned ? I ven- ture to say, that the best informed man would get two patients for every one that the other would get, even allowing them to be equally ION MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 39 capableof treating disease. For, when I am sick, I do not wish to speak always of my complaint to my physician. If I am at all able, and if my medical attendant has any time to spare, when he has finished his examination, and given me any directions I may require, I wish rather to speak on other topics than my dis- ease, for I know nothing about disease, and I will be more benefited by cheering con- versation on other subjects, than on the sub- ject of my ailments. If I am a linguist, and if he is one also, we may enter upon the lite- rature of other countries, and discuss the languages of the different nations. If I am a classical scholar—if I am fond of going back to the days of ancient Greece and Rome, and pondering on the great deeds of these early times—it will be pleasant to have one who can go with me, and who can trace with me the events even in the original languages. If I am a poet, or if I am fond of poetry, I am cheered by having a physician who can allude with me to the poets, both ancient and modern, whom I most admire. If I am well informed in History, I will of course be grati- fied by meeting with a man who is also well informed in this particular. If I give my time occasionally to the abstract sciences—if40 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. I am fond of Mathematics, I should like my physician also to be a mathematician. If I am an astronomer, or a geographer, or a studier of any 'of the branches of natural science, I will expect that my physician will also be able to speak with me on these. If I am versed in the science of mind, I may occasionally wish to enter upon this, and I will think it strange if he cannot join me in this also. If I am a person that takes any interest in Politics, I expect that when my medical attendant arrives he will be able to detail to me the news of the day. I would not expect him to be much of a lawyer, but I would expect him to be acquainted with the general doctrines of Theology. And with the general features and concerns of other countries, and espe- cially with all that is interesting and promi- nent in his own country, I would suppose him to be well acquainted. In short, the ad- vantage which the general physician has over the mere physician is incalculable. The first will be able to establish himself in a first rate practice, while the latter will only be able to get intoa second rate,or it maybe even into a rate lower than that. And as it often happens that a medical man has to travel intoON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 41 other countries, where he can have little or perhaps no communion with those who speak his own language, this is another great reason why the physician should have more languages than one. Even in his own country, he oc- casionally falls in with a patient who has to be interrogated in some foreign tongue, and then how gratifying is it to him to think that he is able to examine his patient in this tongue, and that he stands in need of no in- terpreter. Besides, it is pleasing, and it may even be useful, for a medical man to consult medical authors, both ancient and modern, in other languages than his own. No doubt, we have learning enough in our own langu- age. If we study the English authors well we will perhaps get every thing that is essen- tial; and as all foreign works now of any note are immediately translated into English, we have the benefit of diese also if we wish for them, though we may be ignorant of fo- reign languages. Nevertheless, it will be better for us, if we can apply to other sources for information besides our own ; and it is good to be independent of all translators; which we can only be when we ourselves know the languages, and can read the works of foreigners in their own tongue. In truth, it is on account of the multitude42 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. of illiterate men who have of late years forced themselves, or have been forced into our pro- fession, that our profession has retrograded so much in its dignity, as hardly to be deserving now of the appellation of learned. Men have flocked forward to the study of Medicine, who had no talent and no previous learning for it at all, but they embraced it merely be- cause they conceived that if they could once get into it, it would be a lucrative and com- fortable profession for them. If they could get just the knowledge which would enable them to obtain a licence to practise, and if they could then procure a situation either at sea or on shore, they were satisfied. They did not care though they might not practise to the best advantage, and they did not care though men might find out that they were not learned in other things. What they looked to was a livelihood, and if they could obtain this,learning might bewhere it pleased for them. And, as a natural consequence, both at sea and on shore, our profession has degenerated, and our medical men now are not found as they were wont to be. There are a few who stand eminent; a few who well deserve the name of first rate inen—but the mass are unlearned, and they will continue to be so, as long as the43 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. present system is pursued. He who is anxi-^ ous to practise his profession with success— he who is anxious to have the respect and reverence of his fellow men—he who has not only gain, but honour also in view, when he de- votes himself to the study of Medicine—will take care to lay up that additional learning which I have already mentioned. For Latin he must have ; and Greek he also stands much in need of; and French, if he travels, or even if he remains at home, will be very often de- manded of him ; and if he can add to these, Italian and German, he will be all the better supplied. He will study some of the sciences. He will especially study intellectual and mo- ral science; and with Mathematics, Natural History, Astronomy, the Laws of Mechanics, and some of the other branches of Natural Philosophy, he will get a general acquain- tance. He will endeavour to be a good geo- grapher, and History he will also endeavour to know thoroughly. With Politics, Religion, and Polite Literature—he will also be so much acquainted as to be able to take his part in them when they occur as subjects of discourse. Of Music, Poetry, Painting, Commerce, produce of other countries, manufactures of particular places, &c., he will also know aON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 44 little. In short, his acquaintance with things will be general—he will know a little of all things. And if, with all this, he has gained a profound knowledge of his own profession, he is in truth a perfect physician. He will not then be afraid to go forward into the as- semblies of the learned, whatever may be the subject which they are met to discuss, for he is not only learned in Medicine, but he is learned in all things. Instead of being a man who can talk only of blood and wounds, and fevers, and apoplexies, and palsies, and such like subjects, he is a man who can join in conversation upon all subjects—who can talk either upon Medicine, or other things, just as occasion demands. And on this ac- count he comes to be a physician who is ge- nerally sought after. His general acquire- ments give him a capability to practise to the best advantage among all ranks, and all ranks finding him to be a man so well fitted for his station, his business accumulates on him continually. And so, while he gets an abun- dance of patients, he gets also the esteem and respect of all around him, and he has, besides, in his heart a confidence and satis- faction given him by his superior knowledge, which the less informed man can never hope to possess.LETTER IV. THE COURSE OF STUDY. Lisbon^ June, 1826. " The very imperfect state of their (the ancients) anatomy, was one great source of error, which kind of knowledge has heen so cultivated in our own times, as to convert ignorance into a vice, and to render those who are deficient in it perfectly inexcusable.—For this is the only true and solid basis from which all cliirurgical knowledge must for ever spring." Pott. Seventeen or eighteen, then, is the age at which the study of Medicine is to be com- menced. Previous to this the student has been suppHed with all the extra learning he is to have, and now he is free from all things, and ready to give his atten- tion solely to Medicine. I suppose him to have fixed on five years as the time to be given to his medical studies. After- wards I shall explain how the course of study is to be managed when a less period of time is to be allotted to it. But, first, I take five years as the time; and now I go on to state, in what order the "different classes are46 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. to be taken, with my reasons for recommend- ing such an order, and such other directions as I may deem are demanded. In the first session (which is a winter ses- sion*) the student is to attend lectures on Anatomy and Chemistry. Anatomy being the basis upon which all medical and surgical knowledge is founded, and Chemistry being also a chief prop of Medicine, these, of course, are the first things to which the attention should be directed. But as Anatomy especially prepares the way for Surgery, and Chemistry prepares us for the lectures on Materia Me- dica, which two branches of study (namely. Surgery and Materia Medica) are to occupy us in the second session, we must, of neces- sity, acquire a knowledge both of Anatomy and Chemistry in the first session. This is so plain that it is unnecessary to insist farther upon it; and it has always, indeed, been the general usage to make them the first classes. * It is necessary here to state, that I am supposing the student to be studying at some of those schools of medicine, such as Edinburgh, Glas- gow, or Dublin, where only one course of lectures is given in the year— the course beginning early in November, and ending late in April— thus giving the six summer months as a vacation between every winter session. In the London schools, where two courses, of four months each, are given in the winter, with a summer recess of four months, of course the plan of study which I am now laying down, will require to be altered somewhat. This must be left to the discretion of the stu- dent.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 47 Along with the lectures on Anatomy, he is also to attend in the dissecting-room, and see the parts prepared for lecture, and hear the demonstrations given there by the dissector.^ This will be of wonderful advantage to him, in enabling him to understand well what he hears at lecture. And if he chooses, he may even put his own hand to, and dissect under the guidance of the dissector. But this I do not press upon him in the first session; it may b e enough if he merely listens and looks on; in the following session he will be able to do more. The second session (which is also a winter session) is to be given to Anatomy, Dissection, Surgery, and Materia Medica. The student, as before, attends the lectures on Anatomy; he also attends in the dissecting-room, and this year he dissects diligently with his own hand. His chief object in dissection this year, is to make himself well acquainted with the relative situation of parts, with the dis- tance and relation which one thins bears to another; and to acquire a dexterity and fa- cility in handling the knife. It is, indeed, almost for this alone that he is at present dissecting—namely, to make himself truly an anatomist; because as yet he knows but littleON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 48 of Surgery, and he is not quite qualified to operate surgically on the dead body. But this session he is also attending the surgical class, and to a branch of his profession so extensive and important, he must give great attention. He must not only be attentive to the practical and more prominent parts of it, but he must studythe whole, and no part, either of its theory or its practice, is to escape him. The lectures on the Materia Medica he also attends; and his attention to these must not be less than to the others, for they also form a most important link in the chain of medical education. Here he hears the virtues of the medicines commented upon—the diseases they are generally prescribed in mentioned— the doses in which they are given—^their particular composition, and chemical action on each other—with many other interesting and important observations. And now, hav- ing got acquainted with the Materia Medica, he is prepared to enter upon the study of the Theory and Practice of Physic. Having finished his winter course, the stu- dent begins his attendance on lectures on Botany. The summer is the only time when Botany can be well studied, and as he is now at leisure, and as he has studied both €he <49 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. mistry and Materia Medica, both of which are certainly in some measure connected with Botany, this is the proper time for him to enter upon this branch. It might be deferred till another summer, but there will be other things to do next summer, and, therefore, it will be better to get it over in this. At the same time, he is to begin his attendance at the Shop of an Apothecary, where he is taught Pharmacy or the compounding of drugs. This is also an important part of his education, and deserves every attention. Here he is studying the Materia Medica in earnest, and also medical Chemistry; in a word, he is putting into actual practice what he had be- fore learned only in theory. When the winter comes on, he is again to attend lectures on Anatomy, Dissection, lec- tures on Surgery, and lectures on Chemistry, and to these are to be added lectures on the Theory and Practice of Physic. In the Anato- mical class, although we suppose him now to be a tolerable anatomist, he will either hear something new altogether, or at any rate he will have the old better impressed on him. In dissecting, he will again examine the parts with care, their relative situation, structure, &c. ; and, especially, I would direct him to D50 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. the neck, the axilla, the groin, the extremi- ties, the perineum, &c., as being parts where important operations are performed, and which are deserving of his greatest attention, although, indeed, all parts are deserving of examination. Being also in attendance at the surgical class (having attended it likewise in the previous winter), and having seen the operations performed on the subject in the class-room, he is now qualified to practise the different operations on the dead body himself, by which he gains a wonderful confidence and dexterity—a confidence which will be of great use to him when he comes to operate on the living subject. All the great opera- tions, such as the different operations for amputation, for aneurism, hernia, lithotomy, trepan, &c., are to be performed frequently, and all the minor operations are also to come in for their share of attention. The lectures on Chemistry are again attended this year, to per- fect him in his Chemistry,especially the Medical part of it; and he continues his attendance at the shop of an apothecary. In hearing lectures on the Theory and Practice of Physic, he is in- structed regarding the general functions of the animal frame, the deviations which take place in disease, and the general principles which are51 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. to guide him in the management of the system when it becomes unhinged. He is taught the symptoms, causes, mode of cure, &c., of each particular class, order, genus, and species of disease, so that he can not only detect disease when it exists, but he can dis- tinguish one disease readily from another, and pursue in each particular case the peculiar mode of treatment. He also hears the dif- ferent kinds of medicines, the characters and properties of which he had previously learned in the Materia Medica class, recommended in the different • diseases for which they are eligible. And now, having studied the Theory and Practice of Physic, he is ready to begin his attendance at an Hospital. We are now at another summer; and at the commencement of this summer the student begins his attendance at an Hospital; he also continues his attendance at the Apo- thecary's Shop. The wards of an hospital are generally divided into medical and surgi- cal wards ; the physician attending the former only^ and the surgeon the latter mily. For the first six months the student is to attend the surgical wards. He is to go round regu- larly with the surgeon, at the hour when the sick arc visited, and observe the progress andON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 52 the treatment which is pursued, in each par- ticular case under his charge. Some adopt the method of going promiscuously through the wards, that is, they go one day with the physician, and the next day with the surgeon ; or, if they can manage it, they may, perhaps, in the same day, go both with physician and surgeon. But this is a most improper plan, and they who follow it do not profit much by their labours. They get quickly, it is true, a confused and general notion of things, but they do not get that correct and minute knowledge which is to be got by those who fix their minds steadily for a time upon one set of patients; for they are running after all, and it is impossible that they can attend perfectly to all; they are like the man trying to pick up all trades, and being master of none ; or like the woman who flirts with all men, and in the end gets but an indifferent husband. When the student begins to attend at an Hospital, he is to give his attention to one set of patients foi^ a time, and then to another set of patients for a time. He is to attend one set of wards first, and then another set of wards. And, as I have before said, his attendance for the first six months is to be in the surgical wards. Here he learns bothON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. Medical and Operative Surgery ; here he sees fractured bones set, and dislocated bones re- duced, and sores and wounds healed, and great operations performed, and the whole host of surgical diseases attacked and removed; and to all and every thing he must give great diligence and attention, for here he is in truth learning the practice of his profession. Lec- tures and all else, may be said to be no more than theory; but in visiting the sick of an Hospital, where we have the diseases actually before us, we turn the theory to practice, and we learn more, perhaps, in one month, than we would do in hearing lectures for a year. As a last remark on this head, I have to advise the student never to neglect to hear the first report of a patient's case after he has been admitted into the hospital, for this is the proper history of the disease ; and in all after visits, he is to be most attentive to the reports and remarks made by the medical attendant. When the winter has arrived. Anatomy is again to be studied; Dissection may also be practised; and the lectures on Surgery are again to be attended. He also attends the lectures on the Materia Medica, in order that he may perfect himself in this branch; and for this winter yet, he attends to the com-ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 54 pounding of drugs. To these, he adds lec- tures on the principles and practice of Mid- wifery. This is also a chief part of the phy- sician's education, and if he wishes to be generally useful, he must attend to this as earnestly as to any other part of the course of study. When I say that it is in the Mid- wifery class that he is taught in particular the diseases of women and children ; that he is not only taught how to guide women at the period of delivery, but both before and after that period; and, likewise, how to guide children from the moment of their birth, up to the age of manhood; I give some idea of the importance of this branch ■—I surely prove to the student that all the diligence he can give will not be too much while he is studying the principles and prac- tice of Midwifery. The lectures on Clinical Medicine, which he also attends this session, is another set of lectures of no less impor- tance than those that have gone before. It will, however, be necessary to explain in what the Clinical lectures consist. The Clini- nical Medical lectures are lectures given upon the patients contained in the medical wards of an hospital. The physician picks out from amongst the patients in his wardON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 55 all those that he thinks are interesting, and he gives lectures upon these patients to the students attending, at an hour allotted for the purpose. He explains their cases ; he gives the view which he takes of each case; he tells why he does this thing, and why he does that thing,—»he comments upon every particular symptom which may occur, and upon every effect which is produced by me- dicine—so that the student is made most in- timately acquainted with each disease, and he is thus enabled to lay up- an immense fund of sound practical knowledge for after practice. Of course, as he attends the Clini- cal Medical lectures this winter, he must be a pupil of the physician. At the beginning of the session he changes from the surgical to the medical wards. Next winter he will go back to the surgeon. We are again at the summer ; and this is the last summer which the student has to study. If he thinks he is not perfect in his Botany, he can revise it now; and he had better go out into the fields, and study it there ; thus adding practice to his theory. He still continues his attendance at the Hos- pital, and as in the winter he continues to go his rounds with the physician—marking56 ON MEDICAJ. EDUCATION, &C. carefully the state of each patient, and endear- vouring to treasure up every thing interest- ing that is presented to him. Here he sees all kinds of medical disease, such as fevers, dropsies, inflammations, &c. treated, and he brings especially into use here the knowledge which he acquired when hearing lectures on the Theory and Practice of Physic. Besides this, he attends this summer at a Lying-in- Hospital. He has in the previous winter studied Midwifery, with the diseases of lying- in-women and children, but, like most of the other branches, in the class-room he has only had the principles—he has not had the prac- tice—and to get this he must become a pupil at a Lying-in-Hospital. There he will see the diseases of women in the pregnant state, with the various methods of conducting them through natural and unnatural labour—the way of management after delivery—the treat- ment to be pursued in the diseases which occur after labour—and in the diseases inci- dent to new-born children, &c.—a full know- ledge of which subjects is of incalculable value to the medical practitioner. In fact, the physician without this knowledge is not a proper physician; and the student who does not attend a Lying-in-Hospital, neglectsON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 57 a most important part of his education. To saj more on this subject must be unneces- sary. Now, we are at the winter again, and it is the last winter, too, of study. This is the fifth winter session, and it is to be occupied chiefly in perfecting what has ah'eady been learned. Lectures on Anatomy, and on Surgery, may again be attended, if the stu- dent pleases. But we would suppose that by this time he is a very perfect anatomist, and also very well acquainted with Surgery, so that we leave these in his option ; if he thinks he does not need them, and if he does not wish to have his time too much occupied, he can let them alone. Lectures on the Theory and Practice of Physic, however, must be attended, for he has only heard one se'ssion there, and another will be de- manded to finish him. Lectures on Mid- wifery are also to be attended; and the at- tendance is to be continued at the Lying-in- Hospital. The Common Hospital is still to be attended, and the surgical wards are to claim the attention this winter. These were the wards which the student visited when he first began his attendance at the Plospital, but then he only looked on, and saw what was58 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. done by others. Now, he puts his own hand to, and becomes in truth a surgical practi- tioner. He gets himself appointed a Dresser, that is, one who has charge of a certain num- ber of patients in a ward—who dresses their sores—applies their bandages—performs the minor operations which are ordered for them —and assists at any of the great operations which are performed on them by the attend- ing surgeon. Thus he gains a great deal of practical knowledge in his profession, which he could never acquire by merely looking on —^he becomes an adept in the manual part of his art even before he enters upon the public practice of it. So this, too, is another indis- pensable part of his education. And, be- sides this, the Clinical Surgical lectures are to be attended this session. These are the same as the Clinical Medical lectures—only on surgical subjects—and they are deserving of the same attention as the others. He is not likely to be a good surgeon wlio has not been an attentive Clinical pupil. And now the student has finished his cur- riculum of education. It will be seen that it consists of a complete circle of subjects, each branch having its peculiar place and impor- tance, and that to attain a perfect knowledge 1;59 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. of its parts, great attention, and great order and regularity, must be observed in the study of them. If we attempt to displace the parts, and endeavour to take up the classes which should come last, first, we will never succeed, for the knowledge of one branch must come before another, and it is only by stepping regularly from one to another, that our pro- gress can be either quick or certain. And, at the same time, the attention must be con- stant and undivided, for no part, even the least, is so plain as not to require much searching into. In short, it is only by laying the proper foundation, and working steadily and gradually till we reach the top of the building, that we can expect to rear an edi- fice which will be substantial and firm ; and it is only by taking the proper methods, and giving the due degree of diligence, that we can hope to reach that perfection in Medi- cine which it should be the wish of all to attain who adopt it as a profession.LETTER V. THE COURSE OF STUDY CONTINUED. Lisbon, June, 1826. " Anatomy, Physiology, and Surgery, are merely the first steps by which the student gains a footing on the hill of science. When he can unravel the brain without a light, and take up the external iliac bUndfold, he is scarcely advanced a day's march on the great journey of Medical science. These, which are termed, and justly, elementary branches, are little more than the alphabet of medicine"—&c. Dr. James Johnson. The plan which I have laid down in the pre- ceding letter, both as regards the length of time which is to be given to the studies, and the number and order of the classes which are to be taken in the different sessions, is, I think, the best which can be adopted. It is the plan which I myself would adopt, had I these studies to begin again, and I am pretty sure it is the one which those who know best about these matters will recommend. Ne- vertheless, it may, either from choice, or cir- cumstances of necessity, be changed. Al- though five years should in general be allotted to Medical study, yet, by great diligence andON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 61 attention, the business is often got over in four ; or even in three ; and therefore, if the student is so circumstanced that he cannot afford five sessions, he must arrange so as to do with less—with four, or with three, as he is able. Well, supposing he is to take four—in the first winter session he will attend Anatomy, Chemistry, and Materia Medica. In the following summer he will begin his attend- ance at the Shop of an Apothecary. In the next winter he will attend Anatomy, Dissec- tion, Surgery, and the Theory and Practice of Physic. The following summer he will begin his attendance at an Hospital. In the winter he will attend Anatomy again. Dissection— especially the operative part of it—Surgery, Chemistry, with Midwifery and Clinical Me- dicine. In the summer again, he attends a Lying-in-Hospital, and studies Botany. In the winter. Anatomy, Surgery, Materia Medi- ca, Theory and Practice of Physic, Midwifery, and Clinical surgery, are to be his classes. And this winter, besides attending lectures on Clinical Surgery, he is to become a Dresser in the Hospital. When only three years are to be taken, then, in the first winter session, lectures on62 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. Anatomy^ Chemistry, Surgery, Materia Medi- ca, and the Theory and Practice of Physic, are to be attended. In the following summer, he begins the attendance at the Apothecary's Shop and Hospital. In the next winter he attends again to Anatomy, Surgery, Dissection, Chemistry, Midwifery, and Clinical Medicine. In the summer, the Lying-in-Hospital, with Botany ; in winter again. Anatomy, with Sur- gery, Dissection, Materia Medica, Theory and Practice of Physic, Midwifery, and Clinical Surgery ; and during this winter the student becomes a Dresser, as before recommended. And this finishes the third and shortest plan of study. But some will say, why recommend so many classes ? Even the candidate for the degree of physician does not require all these; and for the mere surgeon, infinitely fewer will do. This is so far true; I have recommended fully more classes than are really required; that is, I have set down some classes which might have been dis- pensed with altogether, had I looked only at the law of the thing, and I have repeated upon the student some other classes which his examinators do not require him to repeat. But I did not sit down to relate merely tlieON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 63 course of education which examiners require. Had this been all that I meant to do, then I might have saved myself the pains of writing at all, for that which is merely required can easily, and at all times be known, by referring to the laws promulgated by the different universities and bodies which have the power of granting degrees in Medicine and Surgery. My intention has been to lay before the stu- dent what I conceived to be the best plan of study—to point out to him the course which would make him the perfect medical man— not the medical man who can just barely pass his examination, and get his qualification— but the man who can pass with applause, and who is intimately conversant with whatever is proposed to him. And, in laying down my plan, I am quite satisfied that I have not been more liberal in my classes than I ought to have been. Clinical lectures, it is true, are not positively required to enable us to pass an examination, and obtain a license to practise ; but will any one have the boldness to say that he is likely to be a good physician, who does not attend Clinical lectures ? One year's attendance at an Hospital, is all that the student is, in general, hound to have, but will any sensible man maintain that this isON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 64 quite enough—will the student be able to gain in twelve months that thorough know- ledge of disease, which it is necessary he should have, ere he undertakes the treatment of it ? One year of an Apothecary's Shop is in general the allotted time, but is it to be supposed that at the end of one year he will be acquainted with drugs as he should be ? No attendance at all at a Lying-in-Hospital is required, but how will he be qualified to give his advice and assistance at the bed-side of lying-in-women, who has merely heard lec- tures on Midwifery, and who has never seen the practice ? One session of Botany is said to be sufficient, but will he be a perfect bo- tanist who only studies it for one summer ? No doubt, the surgeon may do altogether without botany, but who will tell me that he will not do much better with it ? He may do with less Anatomy and Surgery, too, than I have recommended, but who will venture to say that all the anatomical and surgical knowledge he can get will be too much for him. And he can do, it is true, with a ses- sion less than I have recommended, of nearly all the other branches—namely. Chemistry, Materia Medica, Theory and Practice of Phy- sic, and Midwifery ; but will any one have the65 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. hardihood to say that he who has studied these branches only for one session can have a perfect knowledge of them ? He need not be a Dresser at the Hospital either, but what kind of a surgeon will he be, when he gets his diploma, if he has never held this office ? In short, it is needless to insist farther upon what must be obvious to every one who gives the subject the least consideration. No doubt, there are some who can pick up learning much sooner, and from infinitely fewer sources, than others. There are some who will learn as much in one session as some others will learn in two—some who can catch, as it were, at a glance, whatever is set before them—and of course these will stand less in need of a repetition of sessions. But, generally speaking, the sessions must be repeated on the medical student, in order to perfect him in each branch, and I must con- tinue to maintain that without a course like the one I have laid down, he is not educated as he ought to be. It is well known, that in ancient times, the physician was looked upon as a personage very different from, and very much superior to, the surgeon. The former went about giving advice, and ordering the remedies, in £66 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. all diseases, while the latter followed him as a mere attendant, to perform whatever might be necessary in the way of operation. The surgeon was, in fact, a mere tool—a man that was just to do as he was bid, and upon no ac- count to exercise his own judgment—while the physician was the learned and reflect- ing personage, who had charge of all, and who commanded all. Consequently, men looked up with much more respect to the physician than to the surgeon ; they thought more highly of his office, and of course they gave him much more of their reverence. As time advanced, however, matters changed somewhat. The surgeon began to give his advice, as well as to operate. He began to be a thinking man, as well as an acting man; and in time he came to take out of the hands of the physician the treatment of all those diseases which are termed surgical diseases. As art and science advanced, he rose higher and higher, and with every succeeding age he has acquired an increased degree of dignity, until now, in these modern times, when he is placed nearly on a level with the physician. Still there is a considerable distinction made between physician and sur- geon. Society in general still looks up to the67 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. man who has M. D. attached to his name, as a more inteUigent and dignified being than he who can only boast of a surgical diploma. And medical bodies themselves still seem anxious to keep up the distinction—still seem anxious to have the surgeons estimated as an inferior class, when they continue to allow those who are only studying for diplomas, to obtain their diplomas by fewer qualifications than the physician obtains his degree. But I am prepared to say that this distinction should not exist; that it is an injurious and improper one ; and that we should strive as much as is in our power to get it done away with. I need not set about showing at length how it is incumbent upon the surgeon to be in every way as well qualified as the physi- cian. I take it for granted that all men now- a-days know that the former is every day called to cases of disease equally important, and equally demanding judgment and learn- ing, with the cases to which the latter is called. Surgical diseases are not merely local diseases; they are diseases of the system, al- most all of them, just as much as the physi- cian's diseases are; and it is utterly impos- sible that a man who is not fully qualified in every department of medical knowledge—ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 68 who is not, in fact, a physician as well as a surgeon—can undertake the cure of them. Besides, the surgeon, as society at present exists, is every day called to cases which are not truly surgical—which are as much medi- cal as surgical. Indeed, it is no very easy thing to say where surgical diseases end, and medical ones begin, they run so into each other; and this is another reason why the surgeon should not be a whit behind the physician in knowledge. If a distinction is to be made at all, I say that the preference should rather be given to the surgeon, for it is he that has most to do; he labours both with head and hands ; and he gives his help more widely, because he relieves both by operation and by medicine. But we would not wish to see either stand higher than the other. We would wish to see them exactly the same, both in point of knowledge and in point of dignity; and this can only happen when their education is exactly the same. Let the distinction between physician and surgeon be kept up, by all means, and let the professions of Medicine and Surgery, if it seems to answer best, be practised separately ; but let the same course of study be imposed upon the surgeon which is imposed upon the physician. LetON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C, 69 Universities and Colleges grant as usual their degrees and diplomas ; but, let the candidates who come before them to pass for surgeons, be able also to pass for physicians. This is what should be done; and, therefore, I have set down in my plan the same course of study for both; and, in speaking to them through these Letters, I wish it to be understood that I speak to them both indiscriminately; be- cause I conceive that they stand in need nearly of the same advice. Without talent what does either a degree or a diploma signify, and, with it, it signifies about as little which the man has. Dr Baillie was a phy- sician, Sir Astley Cooper is only a surgeon; but which of these men have earned the greatest reputation, or which of them will be latest known to posterity, it is not easy to determine. I do not pretend to tell in this book the par- ticular curriculum of education which is de- manded atthe different medical schools of this island. This would be needless; becausealmost every year there are some new arrangements made, and some new law or other promulgated, which renders it necessary for the student to consult, at the commencement of every session at least, the particular statutes of his school.70 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. The advice given him here is meant chiefly to help him in adapting his course. We would wish him to come as near as possible to the plan here laid down; because we con- ceive it to be the best one; but, at the same time, he must keep in view the particular plan which is required of him at the school where he studies, and he must be regulated in so far by it. When he has chosen his school, he will, of course, make inquiry regard- ing the number of years he must study, the various classes he must attend, &c., and then, when he has ascertained this, he will regulate matters according to the best of his judgment, so as to do all he can in the space which he allots for his education. In Edinburgh, to qualify for physician, four winter sessions are required. In Glasgow three will suffice. In London six years of study are demanded to qualify for surgeon; * and each particular school has its own regulations, which, as I have before said, must be carefully enquired into by the student before he begins his me- dical curriculum, in order that he may make no mistake, and find himself in no difficulty * Four of these years, however, may be spent under the private tuition of a surgeon. The student may attend all his classes in the last two years.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 71 when he comes to ask for a license at the end of his studies. Before concluding this Letter, there are still one or two things which demand notice. I purposely omitted in the fourth Letter, when laying down the general plan of study, to speak of Physiology, or that part of medical science which explains to us the doctrines of life—which teaches the different actions and functions of the body in health; because it is a part which is generally taught along with the Anatomy. But it is a part so important, and so well deserving of the attention of the student, that if he is so situated as to be able to get lectures distinct upon this branch, he will do well to attend them. Hitherto it has not been taught separately in this country; but it has now become so extensive and so interesting a part of science, that it will in all probability be so by and bye, and, when this happens, those students who will embrace the opportunity of studying it thoroughly, will certainly be much better educated than those who are content with the superficial know- ledge of it which is too generally given. Me- dical Jurisprudence, or Judicial Medicine, or that part of the science which enables us to detect circumstances, and give correct opi-ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 72 nions in cases of crime or accident, is another branch which, although it has not as yet been generally taught in a separate course, is well deserving of being so, and should be studied by the student with great attention. In so far as regards rape, infanticide, &c., the sub- ject has generally been taken up in the Mid- wifery class ; but it is evident from the variety of things which have to be spoken of, that justice cannot be done to it here, and, there- fore, it is necessary that persons should be appointed to deliver lectures separate upon this branch. Attempts to do this have been made; but they have not exactly succeeded. However, the subject is coming more and more into notice every day, and I am satisfied will, in a short time, take a very prominent place in medical education. For how impor- tant is it, that in cases of murder by the infliction of wounds, poisoning, rape, &c., the medical man should have a clear and correct knowledge of the subject, so that in a judicial examination, he may be able to give an opinion and report which will be creditable to himself, and safe to the prisoner. Diseases of the eye is a third branch demanding a separate course of lec- tures. This part of Surgery, no doubt, comesON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 78 in for its share of attention with the other surgical diseases treated of in the general lectures on Surgery; but, in a course combin- ing such a multiplicity of extensive and com- plicated subjects, it cannot have its full share of attention. The diseases of this organ are exceedingly numerous, and they require so much aid, both medical and surgical, that a great portion of time, and a great portion of diligence, indeed, are requisite, before a per- fect knowledge of them can be acquired. So evident has this been, that some of our most eminent surgeons have thought it right to give nearly all their attention to this part of the art, and to set themselves up almost ex- clusively for the cure of diseases of the eye. Undoubtedly every surgeon should endeavour to make himself a good oculist. And to do this, he should attend the lectures given by some acknowledged good ocu- list, and at the same time attend an Hos- pital where a number of patients are to be seen with ophthalmic diseases. Many excel- lent oculists are now lecturing, and many excellent Eye Infirmaries have of late been erected, so that the student can easily, at any period in the course of his studies when he finds it most suitable, give the necessary at-74 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. tendance. Three months* attendance will probably suffice; but there can be no objec- tions to his taking even more. Diseases of the ear have also, now-ar-days, risen up into con- siderable notice, and are especially treated of by individuals who have given particular attention to them. These mav also be attended, if time can be found. Diseases of the skin claim also particular attention. And though diseases of the teeth are now espe- cially the occupation of the surgeon-dentist, yet the common surgeon will not be the worse for having some knowledge of them.* There is yet another subject which I think it may be as well to introdue here, and be done with it. It is a good deal the fashion amongst medical men now, to devote them- selves to some one part of the profession in particular. For example, one will be em- ployed chiefly in treating diseases of the eye —another will be employed chiefly in per- forming the great operations—a third will be in fame for his success in the cure of liver complaints, or skin diseases—a fourth will be as much in repute for his treatment of the * Since the above remarks were written, both in London and in some other medical schools. Physiology, Judicial Medicine, &c., have been taught as distinct branches of Medical education.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 75 diseases of females and children—and so on —each having his particular disease, or class of diseases, to treat. And though this plan has been objected to by some, yet I am con- siderably in favour of it. Is it not quite na- tural to expect, that when a man gives the whole of his observation to one particular disease, or set of diseases, he will be likely to understand these diseases best, and arrive perhaps at new and successful methods of cure ? Is it not certain that the operator who performs every day will be more dex- trous than he who performs only occasion- I ally ? I think there is no denying either of ; these questions ; and, therefore, I think there • can be no doubt as to the propriety of medi- F cal men endeavouring to establish themselves J in particular kinds of practice. Of course, it is far from my intention to advocate any thing like quackery, or to say that a man is capable of practising one part of Surgery without being well acquainted with all its parts—on the contrary, my opinion is, that it is not only improper, but highly culpable, in any man, to think that he will be able to I treat any one disease, if he is ignorant I of disease in general. He that tries this will I certainly fail, and commit as certainly many76 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. unfortunate mistakes in the trial; for it is impossible to get into the knowledge of Me- dicine except by the one broad and straight road of general study. But I mean that he who is fully educated—he who has a com- petent knowledge of all the branches—will be likely to do most good by setting himself earnestly and steadily to one part. His every effort being thus concentrated, an ef- fect infinitely greater is produced, than if the mind were distracted and employed on many subjects, and the very experience which he has—the number of cases which he neces- sarily sees in his own particular department —ogives him a superiority of knowledge in his own department even above those who are better informed than him in general.— Nor is it at all necessary that, though a per- son devotes himself to one particular branch, he should be idle in all the others. The me- dical man, as I have already said, is to be capable of treating all kinds of disease, and he must be ready to give his help in whatever case he may be called to, for of course, me- dical men are often so situated as to be obliged, whatever their inclination may be, to make their practice general. Neverthe- less, he will always be especially ready to77 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. treat those diseases which he is anxious to study most, and society will soon find out that in these diseases his knowledge ex- cells. There are some minds that can take in all things, and excell in all things; but, to the ordinary mind, only one thing must be given, if we wish it to excel. And, there- fore, I give it as my advice, that when the general education has been finished—when the surgeon has been educated as he ought to be—if there be any branch, or part of a branch, which he has a particular liking to, he should single this out from the rest, and fix on it as a subject for his afi;er labours.LETTER VI. ADVICE TO THE STUDENT. Lisbon, July, 1826. " To me, when taking leave of my preceptors, the day seemed hke that on which I took leave of my parents, and every act of disobe- dience, every impatient word, deed, and even thought, with a thousand sins of omission, seemed to rise up before me as something for which I was to repent and weep bitterly." Edinburgh Graduation Day. When the student has entered upon his course of education, it is expected of him, that he is duly impressed with the importance of what he has undertaken, and that he has made up his mind to be most diligent and earnest in all that he has to do. Without diligence it is impossible to attain proficien- cy in any thing, but in Medicine, where there is so much to learn, and where proficiency can hardly be attained even by any degree of labour, there is a double call on us for un- ceasing application. The Student miist now give up all other things, and occupy himself only with that which appertains to his pro-ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 79 fession. His profession must now be the paramount object, and all other things must be made subordinate to it. For it is now that he is to gain the chief part of his medical knowledge. It is now, when he is a Student, that he is to lay down the foundation which is afterwards to be built upon, and if he be not unremitting in his labour—if he does not give diligence, and attention, and patience, in a very great degree—that foundation will be a bad one. If the great doctrines of the science be not well grounded now, they can never be so firmly fixed again. —Therefore, he must studiously keep . away from whatever will tend to weaken I his. exertions—^lie must take care that no- ithing will either distract his attention or take up his time. If he meddles with other parts of science at all, he must only meddle I with them in so far as they will be a relief to ' his severer duties. If he enters into recrea- tion at all, he must only recreate enough to keep the mind's vigour up, that he may be able to return to his medical studies with re- doubled energy. Even in his recreations, and extra employments, when he can, he is to keep his profession in view, and be adding if possible to his knowledge of it. In a word.80 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. he is to be searching continually after know- ledge, and that knowledge is to be medical knowledge. And, indeed, when I reflect on the nature of the science which he has to plod in, I feel that there is but little need to urge him to earnestness and diligence in it. As the great secrets and truths of it are laid open to him, he will every day and every hour become more devoted to it, so that there will be little fear of his attaching himself much to any thing else. As he proceeds, he will be so fascinated by the multitude of new and interesting views opened up to him, that all other things will appear unworthy of his attention, and he will seek only to dwell upon that which is connected with his profession. Even those things which interested him be- fore will cease to attract him now. In short, he will devote himself to Medicine with his whole soul, and resolve that nothing shall interrupt him while he is engaged in its diffi- culties.* In attending lectures upon Medicine, it has been too much the case with Students, to pick * But the state of the health is always to be looked to. We are never to carry study so far as to injure this great blessing; but if we should unfortunately happen to do so, the sooner we throw all our studies behind us the better.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 81 out for themselves what they conceive to be the importantipsiYtso£ the profession, and study these; while the other parts, which they have set down as unimportant—they will leave almost unattended to. For example, in studying Anatomy, some think it quite enough if they make themselves well ac- quainted with all the parts where operations are performed. They are satisfied if they know well the situation and relations of the trunks and great branches of vessels and nerves, and the other important parts which are apt to come in the way of operation. They will dissect carefully at the neck, and the groin, the axilla, perinagum, &c., because these are parts indispensible to the surgeon. But, with the back, because the parts there are not just so important, they take almost nothing to do. With the minute ramifications of vessels and nerves, because we do not require to be anxious about these in our operations, they take as little to do. The minute anatomy of the brain they think it needless to study, because it is an organ encased in the scull, out of our reach. The one half of the technicalities of the viscera of the thorax and abdomen they are sure they may safely leave unlearned. And so on with manyON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 82 Other parts ; they think they may either skip them altogether, or, at any rate, that a very shght attention will suffice for them. But this is a most erroneous and unstu- dent-like way of going to work. Why, if it were for no other use than to satisfy curiosi- ty I should like to see into every part of a subject. If I had no other end in view than merely to be enabled to say that I was master of it, I would endeavour to get to the bottom of whatever I might enter upon, and I would only be satisfied when I had pried into every part of it. But with the student of Anatomy, there is indeed a necessity for prying into every part. Although it is true that some parts of the body are deserving of particular attention, it is as true that no part is unde- serving of attention. For, although in a surgical point of view some parts may seem insignificant, yet in a medical point of view they are highly important. We can never be good physiologists, or good physicians, if we are not also good anatomists; we can never know the functions, or treat the dis- eases, of a part well, unless we know perfectly the structure, relations, and situation of the part,—and those very parts which the igno- rant man may deem unimportant, if he knewON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 83 them better, he would find to be exceedingly important. A knowledge of the parts of the brain, and of the minute ramifications of ves- sels and nerves, and of the parts of the back, and of the parts of the viscera, and of parts seemingly still less important than these, will not only help the physician, but also the surgeon, in a multitude of ailments. Dis- ease puts on so many forms, and the causes of disease are so often distant from the seat of it, and the sympathies which exist between different parts of the body are so numerous, and altogether there is so much to detect and account for in almost all the complaints which are presented to us, that unless we are per- fectly acquainted with all the parts—with every sympathy, and action, and connection, in the body—we will very often go astray in our opinion. It is generally this which makes the difference between a good and a bad physician. The one is an anatomist, and gets at once to the cause of a disease, and cures it; whilst the other, being an indiffe- rent anatomist, remains in the dark, and fails in a cure. Besides, how is a medical man to read and profit by the works of others, if he does not know all the parts of that profession which he professes to practise ? How is heON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 8'4 to commune and consult with his brethren, and hold a respectable rank amongst them, if there be parts of his profession which he from his ignorance dares not venture to touch upon ? And, how is that student to offer himself for examination who feels that he is not qualified to answer whatever may be asked of him ? It may be that he will be taken upon the very points which he has deemed unimportant, and, being found ignorant of them, he will very properly be rejected. I am sure it is unnecessary to say more on this head. Every one who knows any thing of the subject will be satisfied that an acquain- tance with every part is indispensible, and that, though some may wish to get rid of them, fieither minutiae nor technicalities can with propriety be dispensed with. The same remarks apply to all the other branches of medical science. In the Practice of Physic, in Chemistry, Physiology, Surgery, &c. the same erroneous opinions prevail, and the same method of picking and choosing has been adopted. In the Practice of Physic, the student seizes upon certain diseases, or upon a certain order or class of diseases, and these he does justice to, but because the dis- eases of another class are not so frequent,85 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. or seemingly not so important, he gives to these a very small share of his regard. In Chemistry, he will attend carefully to all that is decidedly connected with Medicine, but what is unconnected with it, he leaves till another time, to be studied as inclination and opportunity may suit. In Physiology, he is satisfied with attending to the common and well known parts ; the less interesting ones, and the less understood ones, he gives himself no trouble about. In Surgery also, he will only attend to the great doctrines—to the great and prominent points and principles— and the minor parts, which he thinks he can learn at any time, are left altogether behind. And so on with the other branches. Thus each picks out what he conceives to be use- ful things, and thus the science is not studied as a whole^ but only in parts. But what is ' the consequence ? The consequence is, that no part of the science is studied as it t should be. For, as we have already said, the science is so much of a whole—each part is > so necessary for the illustration of the other— i that nothing can be left out, and we must know i all the parts if we would know any one part well. Each branch of Medicine, and each 1 part of each branch, and each division of each86 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. part have their place in the great circle, and you cannot leave out a portion, even a small one, without making a blank which deforms the whole. You cannot studv the Practice of Physic without a reference to the other departments of the science—you cannot study one disease or one class of diseases, in the Practice of Physic, without having reference also to the other diseases ; and as little can you study Chemistry, and leave out all parts excepting purely Medical parts. In short, there is such a linking of principle that you cannot disunite—there is such a dependance upon all parts,that you cannot remove anyone —and as you proceed onwards in your path of study, you must touch upon each of the stepping-stones in the way, or your footing will be unsteady, and you will fall. But, setting aside the call which is upon us on this account, who is it that would only attend to the parts of a science which are clear to every one, and which every one knows, and can talk about. The original mind chooses rather to employ itself at parts of a subject which are not yet very clear, and which have not yet been much enquired into, in the hope that it may make some addition to the store of knowledge which is already87 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. laid up. There is no field for discovery in the hackneyed track, but, in the unknown way, there are materials for the man who can turn them to account; and while the multitude are merely learning what is easy, and what every one knows, the man of genius is toiling in unexplored regions, bringing light out of darkness, and order out of con- fusion. It is thus that science advances, and that great men show the powers with which nature has gifted them. It is thus that the plodding physician achieves some great dis- covery, which places him upon the pinnacle of fame, and gains for him a reputation that will never die. And, lastly, I have to re- mark, that the student makes a great mistake if he slights even the most insignificant parts of his profession. For even in these there is room for the display of genius and adroit- ness ; and he that is not perfectly at home in the little matters as well as the great, will now and then find himself placed in rather awkward circumstances. At each class the student is to take notes of the lectures delivered. This it is highly necessary to do, on account of the number, of i things which are spoken of, both theoretical I and practical. A very retentive mind might88 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. almost do without notes. I have known persons who could at the end of a session give the substance of almost every lecture they had heard, without notes; at least, they could tell you what had been said upon al- most every important subject, even in the words of the lecturer. But these people, nevertheless, lost a good deal. They lost a great many of the less interesting remarks, which, though they did not seem to impress at the time, had they treasured them up, they would have found afterwards to be of much use to them. And even the interesting re- marks, which they imagined were fairly fixed on their memories, when they came to exa- mine them well, they found that they had neither got them so fully nor so substantially as those who had taken the trouble of com- mitting them to paper. There is indeed a treachery in the minds of all, which can only be guarded against by noting down, at the time we hear it, whatever we are anxious to remember. And even with the most im- pressive of circumstances—with the most fascinating of lessons—it is necessary to fol- low this rule; for the mind, when left to it- self, though it may be in possession of all the striking points of a thing, yet in course ofON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 89 time even these will be remembered but faintly. Therefore, the student is to note down carefully all that he may hear said.— He is to take short notes in the class, and, when he goes home, he is to extend them. These, if he preserves them, may be of no small use to him in after life. And I would make no exception to classes in giving this ad- vice. Some will say, that in the Anatomical class, because it is so much a matter of fact business—^because. we have nearly the same laid down in books that we hear in the class —we need not put ourselves to the trouble of noting the remarks. But this is a piece of advice which the wise will never follow. Anatomy is never studied merely as Anato- my ; it has always a reference to something else—to Phisiology, Surgery, &c. and there is no lecturer, however dry and unoriginal he may be, but will have something of his own to offer upon these points; he will either have some new view, case, or illustration, to bring forward, which will be worth our re- membrance, and therefore worth noting down. Indeed it is in a great measure for this that I recommend the taking of notes— namely—that we may treasure up the origi- nal matter of a lecturer—for that is matter90 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. which we cannot find any where else. They are incalculable the hints which a young man may thus amass, by attending to the lessons of an old and experienced teacher. And let it be remembered, that the mere taking of notes in the class-room, though they were never to be carried home at all, has its advan- tages ; it keeps the student to his duty ; it is impossible that his mind can wander while he is following the lecturer with the pen in his hand. So that in all cases it is of advan- tage to take notes. In the class-room—in the hospital—in private conversation— wherever, in fact, knowledge is to be ob- tained—we are to insert what we think valua- ble in our note-book ; for it is only thus that a store of facts will be accumulated which will render even the young practitioner ex- perienced, and enable him to act with clear- ness and promptitude, even in cases of diffi- culty. When the student returns home after hearing a lecture, he is to take his text-book, and read in it at the part which has been the subject of that day's lecture. It has been customary with students to read wherever they please in their books, and to read in a variety of books. They will not be contentON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 91 to progress with the teacher, but they must needs travel on before him, and bkmder away into subjects which they are ignorant of, thus getting a confused and superficial knowledge of all parts, but a deep and correct knowledge of no part. Instead of sticking to the subject which the teacher is on—in- stead of labouring with him at this till it is finished, and then stepping quietly on to another—they are so impatient that they must get the start of him, and be at the very end of the course while he is yet only at the beginning. In a very few days perhaps they have skimmed over all their text-book. They think they have got a considerable knowledge of all things. And now they will be eager to get hold of some other book on the sub- ject, and they will even have the boldness to meddle with other works than elementary works—books that are speculative and dif- fuse, and difficult to be understood even by the better informed. Now, this me- thod of reading has been productive of many evil consequences, and the student who is anxious to learn properly will most studiously keep from it. This is to be the plan of the student: when he begins the study of a branch of his profession, he is to92 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. get the acknowledged best elementary work on the subject, and for the first session at least he is to keep wholly to this work. In the second or third session when he knows his subject pretty well, he may then venture to look into other books, but still these books are to be elementary and practical, not diffuse and hypothetical He is just to keep pace with the lecturer; he is to touch upon the subjects as he touches them ; but he is never to get before him, or compound what is to come with what is actually in hand. For, although it may seem that by getting a slight acquaintance with the subject previously he would understand it better, this is not the case ; it only confuses him, and he is never so well impressed as when he gets the first lesson from the lecturer. Besides, there is no time for thus reading and ranging through every thing; he has quite enough to do, if he learns his lessons properly, to keep up with the lecturer. If there be any spare time, it will be better spent in conning over what is past—in endeavouring to fix what he has already learned—than in an attempt to bur- den himself with what he is not prepared to receive. And, as to meddling with books which are not fitted for him—such as JournalsON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 93 —Reviews—isolated cases—doubtful discus- sions—and hypotheses, which had better per- haps have remained in the heads of the in- ventors, I seriously advise him to have no- nothing to do with these. It is alone the substantial parts which he in the meantime wants, and these he finds in his text-book. When he comes to have lost the appellation of student^ he may then examine these more ge- neral sources of knowledge, but while he is a student he has only to do with the elements ; he must not forsake them till he has finished his curriculum of education. During the vacation* the student is not to be idle. He is still to keep at his books, in order that he may keep fully up the know- ledge which he has gained in the previous winter. The mind however strong, will lose much of its information in the course of the summer months, unless it be continually em- ployed in turning over this information;— therefore, the student must be always reading and studying—he must be continually re- freshing the memory—if he wants to be well prepared for the session which is next to come. In fact, the summer season is perhaps * I still suppose him to be studying at a Scotch University, where there is a recess of six months.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 94 the best for study. We have but few occu- pations thent o interrupt us, and if we do not give our attention to other things, we may do a great deal for ourselves in the summer.— But h ere I have to put the student again in mind of the advice which I gave him in the last paragraph—he is not to meddle with the subjects the session which is to come—he is to occupy himself only with the session or sessions that are gone by. His chief object now is to fix the old knowledge—not so much to get new—and he will be much better em- ployed if he busies himself with the subjects which he understands, rather than with those which must as yet be to him extremely ob- scure. If he has any associates who are older than he is in study, or if he is under the care of a sensible medical man, it may not be a bad thing to take a few hints from them re- garding what is to come before him in the next session, in order that he may be in a slight degree prepared for it when it comes. This indeed I think is a proper measure, for it helps him just a little—it gives him the key, as it were, to unlock the door—but that is all—he does not actually venture in. As to actually studying the subjects, that is altogether out of the question. AON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 95 mere notice of them is all that is to be got; and the great business of the student, as I have already said, is with the things which he has already in some degree been made ac- quainted with. It has now become pretty much the cus- tom with medical professors and lecturers, to allot a certain day of the week for the exa- mination of their students ; and this is a most excellent plan. They allot, for example, Saturday, and on that day the student is ex- amined upon all the subjects which have come before him in the previous part of the week ; thus he is stimulated to attend—he is obliged to be diligent at his work—for he has his answers to give at the end of the week with the rest, and, if he has any spirit in him at all, he will be anxious not to ap- pear ignorant, amongst those around him. Some follow another method; they appropri- ate so much of the lecture-hour each day for this purpose ; perhaps for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour before beginning the lec- ture, they examine the students on the lecture of the previous day. And either of the ways will suit. But, for myself, I prefer the first method, because it does not break in upon the lecture, and because it does not bring the96 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. Student too often in contact with the lecturer. Besides examining the student, it is useful to make him write, every week or fortnight, a small essay upon some medical subject, which essay is either to be read and commented on by the lecturer himself, or by the other students. This is productive of two good results ; it gives the student a readiness at putting down his thoughts upon medical sub- jects—and makes him attend to things which otherwise he might neglect. It is well, too, for students to form little parties amongst themselves. Perhaps six, eight, or ten,/will agree to meet one night or two a week, to take through hand the different points which they are studying—to give and receive the information which each is catching in his progress—and, by conning it over, to fix it the more indelibly. Here, also, small essays may be written and read. And when the student has nearly finished his studies, I think it is a good thing if he becomes a member for a time, of one of those larger meetings, (if such there be in the place where he studies) those Medical Societies, as they are termed, where questions are proposed, and discussed, before a large body of people. It gives him at once an opportunity of finding97 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. out what his powers are as a speaker—it gives him a facility in conveying his senti- ments to others—it gives him a boldness which in many instances may be of the greatest use to him, especially in giving his evidence in a Court of Justice. But let it always be recollected that the student is only to do this towards the end of his studies. Before this he has neither the requisite knowledge, nor time to-spare for such discus- sions. In all things, I have already said, the stu- dent is to be diligent, but he is especially to be diligent in his visits at the Hospital. The Hospital is the great practical field ; and here helaysinliisgreatstockof practical knowledge. Even the most insignificant points he must be a/nxious after, for they are nevertheless prac- tical points, and they will every day be re- quired of him when he comes to go forth intb the world a physician or a surgeon. Every thing connected either with Medicine or Surgery—every thing which comes before him, whether prominent or insignificant, he is carefully to note and remember—for all will not be too much for him when he comes to be resting on his own skill, and when pei<-*' haps both his reputation and subsistence itiay GON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 98 depend upon the knowledge which he can show he is in possession of. And there is one thing which I have hitherto neglected to allude to in these letters, but which must not be forgotten. It is the examination of the dead. Those who are not of the profession cannot understand well the benefit which medical science has derived from the inspec- tion of bodies after death, and therefore it is unnecessary for me to say much upon the subject here. But I think it right to call the attention of the student to it, and to tell him that it is a most important part of his educa- tion. It is indeed so important that it can- not be neglected without a serious loss being- sustained, and he who thinks lightly of it, and leaves it unattended to, commits an irre- trievable error. Our greatest physicians have always been the greatest cultivators of morbid Anatomy. And no wonder, for it is by examining the dead that we come at the dis- eases of the living. It is by examining the morbid appearances in one fatal and obscure case, that we are ready to detect, and attack timeously and perhaps successfully, the next similar case. And thus great benefit accrues to the living, while the dead are in noway in-1 jured. And thus the student will see that itiON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 99 will be greatly to his advantage if he devotes as much of his time as he can spare to j)ost- mortem examination. When attending at an Hospital, or when under the care of some private medical prac- titioner^ the student is often allowed to prac- tise in some measure for himself. He is allowed at the Hospital, for instance, to bleed, extract teeth, open abcesses, dress sores, apply bandages, and, it may be, even have the treatment of some sorts of disease ; and, with the private practitioner, if this practitioner happen to be much burdened with business, and especially if he has much to do among the lower orders, he is often, not only allowed to do all these minor things, but he has the complete charge of a whole range of patients, to do with them what he pleases. He is a physician, or a surgeon, in truth; at least, he is taking upon himself the of- fice of one while he is yet only a student. Now, 1 I am much against this method of proceeding. I am perfectly aware of the necessity and the propriety of putting the hand to, and getting all the experience we can, as soon as pos- sible. But I am as well satisfied that to put the hand to before the proper time is a gross error, and that to give students who are not100 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. jet qualified for it, the charge of people labouring under disease, is a most culpable act—an act deserving of more reprehension than I am perhaps able to give it. I could never object to a young man doing the minor things in the wards of an Hospital, or in the practice of a private practitioner. On the contrary, I have formerly recommended this.* The operations of bleeding, bandaging, &c., being merely mechanical acts, when the stu- dent has once learned them, he cannot well go far astray in them. But, as to giving him patients to himself, and letting liim un- dertake the management of disease which re- quires nice and prompt discrimination, this i^ a thing which I must decidedly set myself against. What! is a half informed boy to have charge of a case where life is at stake, where the comfort and welfare of a family is de- pending ? Is a student, though a well in- formed one, to be allowed to risk his skill on a disease, which even the oldest and most talented of practitioners might find it diffi- cult to deal with ? No, no; this ouglit not to be. Every thing, certainly, is to be done to advance the knowledge of the student, but * Vide Letter IV.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 101 then there must be no risk run—we must not put Hfe at hazard for his sake. He may practise, if he only practises under the eye of another; he may be allowed to take the management of sick under all diseases, if he will consent to have a looker-on—one who can put him right if he should get into mis- take. But farther than this it is impossible to go; and I am certain that what I have here said must be the feeling of every right thinking person. Great evil, I know, has ac- crued to society, from thus letting the unri- pened and uninformed take upon themselves the parts of finished men, and the evil, of course, can only be prevented when medical practitioners, and the public in general, shall have combined to let such things be no more. If a practitioner will give a pupil a part of his patients in charge, let him pick out the best, ' his ablest, his most experienced pupil; one upon whose knowledge he has great reliance; one that he would not hesitate to put himself under, if he were ill. But even this, I do not quite go in with. The law supposes no man to practise till he has been examined and found qualified, and I say, that the more the law is observed the better will it be for every body.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. The student is not to be absent from a single lecture in the whole session, unless by unavoidable necessity ; for a lecture once lost can never properly be got again, and the losing of one lecture, to a certainty, does in- jury to many which follow it. Each lecture is linked so with another; the remarks of one day are so much connected with the re- marks of the previous day; and the whole of the busines is so made up into one, that unless we are present at every lecture, unless we hear every remark, we will fall behind, and go greatly astray from our subjects. It is only from being in the lecture-room as punctually as the lecturer himself, that we can expect to keep up with him as we ought, and therefore unless bad health, or something as important prevent us, we are never to be away. This I am sure every proper minded student will be agreed upon. And we are not only to be present each day, but we are to be present in proper time. Some students will not be often absent from a whole lec- ture, but they will always be late of making their appearance. They will be coming in ten minutes or a quarter of an hour after the lecture is begun, to the great annoyance ol the other students, and greatly to their ownON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 103 disadvantage. For they have lost the intro- ductory part, they have lost the groundwork, and many of the allusions w^hich the teacher makes in the after part of his lecture to what he said in the beginning, are to them unin- telligible. And, farther, the student's con- duct while in the lecture-room should be in every respect becoming. I am sorry to say that too many forget themselves, and behave in a way which is scarcely in accordance with their years. That practice which exists in many of our schools of rubbing on the floor with the feet to disturb the lecturer when the hour of dismissal is approaching, is dis- graceful. Shame upon men—professional men too—to be guilty of such a boyish and insulting piece of conduct; if they will not be attentive themselves, why' should they prevent others from being so. Even amongst medical students prizes would almost seem necessary to ensure good behaviour. One thing, however, is certain, that they who are labouring so assiduously with their feet, can- not be supposed to be doing much with their heads. Even thebest behaved, and the most talented and diligent, will have something to regret— something to "repent" of, when the day comesON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 104 on which they are to take a final leave of College education. Some hours will have been ill spent ; some " sins" will have been committed, which, had they their course to go ove^ again, they would take care to avoid. But he that has, at any rate, striven to do well; he that has erred as seldom as possible, although he may not be altogether satisfied with himself, will have very different feelings from him who has trifled and idled away that precious time which is never pro- perly to be redeeined. That (Jay is indeed a trying one, when the student is hearing the last lecture of the last session 5 when he feels that every opportunity is now gone of farther improvement from lectures; and sees the teacher in the chair for the last time, taking leave of all, and giving his last monitory address. I envy not his heart who is un- moved at such a time. He that does not now reflect on the past, and resolve to make up for the time he may have lost, by the future, is still much in want of amendment. He that does not now feel a fondness for all around him ; he that does not now give a tear to his preceptor, and a tear also to Iiis fellow-student, for all the goodly lessons which the one has given him, and lor theON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 105 long association which he has had with the other—is not one who can boast of much of the milk of human-kindness—in him there is no gratitude, no friendship. Alas! the physician soon finds out that his days of study, laborious as they were, were the hap- piest, for anxieties accumulate with years, and the toils of the zealous Physician cease not, until he himself becomes at last the prey of the destroyer, with whom through life he has been combating.LETTER VII. BOOKS NECESSARY FOR THE STUDENT. Lisbon, August, 1826. " As it is good to separate the chaff from the wheat, so it is wise to part good authors from the bad, for, in reading, unless we select well, we will lose much precious time."—&c. Anonymous. I WOULD not be doing all that my plan re- quires of me for the student, were I not, be- fore leaving him, to mention the books which he must have in his possession during his studies. Many lecturers take care to instruct him upon this point at the com- mencement of their course. They give him a list of the books which have been written upon the particular branch which they are teaching, and they tell him which of these they would recommend him to purchase. And if all teachers would do this, the student could never be at a loss ; he would get the necessary information at each lecture-room. But as a great many teachers, for different reasons, neglect to speak upon this point,ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 107 the student has of course to pick up his in- formation from other quarters, and as the sources whence he seeks it cannot always be good, he often blunders, and, by his igno- rance, both wastes money and loses know- ledge. Therefore, I think it necessary, in professing to give him pretty minute direc- tions as to the management of his studies, to point out to him what I conceive to be the books which he ought, as he goes on, to have recourse to. I have already given my opinion* that the books of a student should neither be very numerous, nor of ponderous bulk. I have said that approved text-books, and clear elementary books, are all that he stands in need of, at least for a long while. And there- fore I shall not be over-liberal in the list which I am now to give. I will certainly put down what I think he demands, but I will take care not to give him a single one to burden him. First, then, as to anatomical books. The best System of Anatomy, I think, for a first year student, is Mr Fyfe's System. It is dry to read, for it contains merely the anatomy of the body, and on this account many do not * Vide Letter VI,ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. like it; but it is written in such a clear and correct manner, that the student who will apply to it, will learn anatomy from it very perfectly indeed. The System of Messrs John and Charles Bell is rather more exten- sive, and considerably more interesting, be- cause a great many valuable physiological and surgical observations are mixed up with the anatomical facts. But it is on this ac- count that I object to it—in the first session. The student must know Anatomy before he knows either Physiology or Surgery.. We must begin at the foundation, and be sure of that, before we run up with the superstruc- ture. And therefore I certainly recommend Mr Fyfe's book for the first session, and per- haps for the second also ; in the third ses- sion, and later than that, the work of the Messrs Bell may be consulted with great advantage. When the student begins to dissect, he must provide himself with a book which professes to give instructions in the art of dissecting. There have been many published, but that little work entitled the London Dissector, appears to me to be the best. It is so perfect, so explicit, and at the same time so concise, that I give it the pre- ference to all other manuals of the kind thatON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 109 T have jet seen. I meed not say haw neces- sary it is to have a good book on this sub- ject ; we cannot always have a master over our heads in the dissecting room, and dissec- tion cannot be carried on advantageously without many instructions. And to impress the better upon the mind of the student the different anatomical subjects which come before him, he is to provide himself with a set of Anatomical Plates. In both the Sys- tems which I have recommended, there are a few etchings of parts, but they are far too few; there is not that minute and regular series which the student requires, and he must, to understand things properly, have others. The Messrs Bell have published, separately, plates of the bones, muscles, and ligaments, and of the arteries, and nerves, and these will be found very useful. But the best system of plates which has yet been published is that by Lizars. It is rather an expensive work, and on this account many may not be able to procure it, but it is so plainly, so correctly, and so beautifully exe- cuted, and contains so many excellent re- marks, besides, relating to: surgical anatomy, that it is cheap after all; and when the stu- dent buys it once, it serves him through L110 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. life ; and through life he will need it to refer to occasionally. Tn Surgery, the first book that I would put into the hands of the beginner is Cooper's First Lines of Surgery. This is a book which, although it treats upon the subjects but shortly,* gives instructions in a clear and correct manner upon all surgical points, and there is no book so useful for the student who is in his first session. Of late Cooper's Dictionary of Surgery has supplanted his First Lines, even with students; and it is true that the Dictionary contains all that the other does, and more; but I am nevertheless satisfied that for the first year student it is not such a proper book. In the First Lines the subjects are fewer, (yet all the principal subjects are there), they are treated of shorter —they are methodically set down—the stu- dent sees them all, in looking over the index, at a glance—he proceeds regularly and gra- dually from one to another, and he has no difficulty in seeking his way. Now, in the Dictionary, every thing is, as it were, taken in—there is a great mass of matter brought ogether—the student does not know w ell * The late Editions have been very much enlarged.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. Ill what he is to read, and what he is to leave alone—he thinks he must read all, and so he reads nothing very perfectly. Therefore, I think the First Lines must be preferred to the other book in the commencement. In the advanced stage of study the Dictionary will be found a very excellent work, for even practitioners of surgery find it a fair book of reference. Besides these, a small work en- titled Averil's Operations of Surgery, will be of much use to the student. This book may be said to be an accompaniment to the Lon- don Dissector, for it professes, chiefly, to teach the student the method of performing operations on the dead body in the dissect- ing room—the method of cutting down upon the great arteries—the operations for stone, amputation, &c.; but, of course, if it teaches us well how to operate on the dead, it teaches i us also how to operate on the living, the method of handling the knife being the same I in both. The student is, therefore, to carry I this little book to the dissecting room with I him, and consult it regularly as he proceeds i in his anatomical and surgical operations, < so that he may gain correct notions of the i parts, and the most approved methods of ( operating. In the descriptions accompany-112 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. ing Lizars's System of Plates, there are also contained many excellent surgical obsei-va- tions ; in fact, we have here a very excellent compendium of Operative Surgery. And in Messrs BelFs System of Anatomy, observa^ tions on the same subject are to be found deserving of attention; and as these are in general given in very attractive language, the student reads them the' more readily, and remembers them perhaps better. Physiology comes next; and in Messrs Bell's anatomical work there is also a good deal of physiology. Following, or along with^ the anatomical descriptionsj the phy- siology of the parts is in general given, and if the student already knows something of Anatomy, he will be much profited by the reading of that work. But this is not enough for the student; he must have his knowledge sti'li more extended in Physiology; and the book which has most commonly been in use is Bicherand's Elements of Physiology. It is a very excellent book. It gives a fair view of the present state of Physiological Science, and it is minute enough to answer all the purposes of the student. Besides this work, the Institutions of Physiology by Dr. Blumenbacl^translated into English by Dr.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 113 Elliotson, is also in repute, and may be con- sulted with advantage. In Chemistry, there are many authors of note, but, as in the other branches, there are only a few proper for the student. Mr Parkes has written a very superior book in the form of a Catechism. It is short, (at least, if we set aside the notes), and easy to be understood, and conveys in a familiar way so much interesting knowledge, that even the beginner in Chemistry reads it with ex- treme fondness. Even in the text it explains all the important and essential parts of Che- mical Science, and if we take in the notes, it contains, although after all it is only an oc- tavo volume, perhaps more particular infor- mation in Chemistry than is to be found in any other work. The method of reading it is, to read first the text—the mere question and answer part—then, when this has been frequently read, and fully understood, the notes may be consulted. The notes may also I be frequently read over, for they cannot be too well impressed, and they are so interest- ing that the student is never tired of them. And when all this is done, I think the read- er must be a tolerable chemist. But in order that a little variety may be aflforded, I H114 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. recommend after this (or before, if the stu- dent would rather) Henry's Elements of Chemistry, another very useful work. It is not on the same plan as the Catechism, neither does it contain the same practical information, but it developes very correctly all the principles of the science, and gives the reader a clear knowledge of the different sub- jects. It brings the subjects methodically forward, and treats them in a concise and explicit manner, which are the great merits of an elementary work. Dr. Ure has published, or rather republished, a Dictionary of Chemis- try, and so have the Aitkens,both of which are good books, and when the student is farther advanced he will find them also worthy of his attention. And these are the only works that I would give to the student. In the Dispensa- tory there is an epitome of Pharmaceutical Chemistry which will help the student con- siderably. In the Materia Medica the best, indeed almost the only, book which we at present possess, as a proper Materia Medica book, is the work by Mr Murray. In it the medi- cines are very well classed, according to our present state of knowledge, and the remarks given concerning the evident or supposedON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. action of each class on the human body, are sufficient for the student. The history of each medicine is also given, with its appear- ance, its component parts, and its chemical and medicinal qualities the formulae of the Col- leges are also added; so that it may be said to be nearly a complete book on the subject. But, besides this, the student must also purchase a Dispensatory; a London, Dublin, or Edinburgh Dispensatory, accord- to the school where he studies, or where he means to pass for his diploma or degree ; for the Dispensatory is a book which is often required in studying the Materia Medica. ! Here also he has the history of the different medicines, their doses, component parts, and I qualities, &c.; also the formulas of the dif- ! ferent Colleges; and with this he has many excellent practical remarks upon most of the 1 medicines and formulae by the editor. Lastly, ' the Pharmacopoeia is required—a phar- ' macopoeia of his particular college—for al- though he has a literal translation of all the pharmacopoeias in the Dispensatory, yet it is expected of every medical student that he *i will be able to read the pharmacopoeia in ^ latin with freedom, and he cannot indeed I; attend at the Materia Medica class, or expectON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. to get a licence to practise Medicine, with- out being able to do so. These, then, are all the books which he requires while he is study- ing Materia Medica and Pharmacy ; namely, Mr Murray's book, the Dispensatory, and Pharmacopoeia. On the Practice of Physic, he will also stand in need of three works; namely, the Mo- dern Practice of Physic, by Dr. Thomas, Dr. Cullen's First Lines, and his System of No- sology. I do not give my unqualified appro- bation to the work of Dr. Thomas. There is room for a better; and I believe Dr. Gregory of London, has written a book of merit upon this subject. Yet Dr. Thomas's work is a fair performance, both as regards the description of diseases, and the treatment of them, but I chiefly recommend it to the student on ac- count of the therapeutics. The symptoms of disease he will learn infinitely better from the First Lines of Dr. Cullen, which is a book elegantly and methodically written, and de- serving of being often read by every medical student, although the therapeutical part of it is not quite minute enough to answer his purpose. The Nosology of Cullen is also to be studied attentively. This is the great foundation upon which the physician builds.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 117 It is this which enables him to detect disease in all its shapes, and to distinguish one kind of disease from another, and so to arrange and distribute all the ailments he meets with to their proper place in the great noso- logical table. In truth, without a perfect knowledge of this part of the science it is almost impossible to know any thing relating to disease. Different men have set up dif- ferent systems of Nosology, and almost every teacher has something to find fault with in Cullen's arrangement. Nevertheless, it is the best which we at present possess ; how- ever much men may endeavour to improve it, still it is the ground-work of all their amendments ; and as it happens to be the system which is generally received at our Colleges, and which the student is examined upon when he seeks for a degree or diploma, of course it is the one which he will pay most attention to while he is studying No- sology. The plan, then, is to read the First Lines for the symptoms of a disease, the Modern Practice for its cure, and the Noso- logy that we may be able to discriminate and arrange disease. Mr Burns's book on Midwifery is decidedly the best book at present in circulation on118 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. that subject. It is clear, comprehensive, and practical; it contains minute directions re garding all the practical points in Midwifery, the diseases of women in the pregnant and puerperal state, and the diseases incident to children ; and, altogether, the precepts are given in such an impressive and explicit manner that the student does not soon forget them. Next to it. Conquest's little work entitled Outlines of Midwifery, will be of use to the student. I do not indeed know a work containing in such small space so much real practical information. It gives an ex- cellent outline of the science, and it may in- deed be as well if the student begins with this book; when he has got a general idea of matters from it, he can then proceed to the large work of Mr Burns. The most common text-book on Botany, is Sir James Smith's Grammar of Botany. There is also another excellent work by the same au- thor entitled, An Introduction to the Study of Physiological and Systematical Botany ; also his Enghsh Flora, which, however, is rather a voluminous work, and therefore not always within the reach of the student. Dr. Hook- er's Flora Scotica is another work which should not be left unnoticed; it is a bookON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 119 which is now coming into general use, and is certainly one which has added much to the reputation of the author. These, then, are all the books which the student requires for his general classes. But there are some others which he will have to procure, while he is attending the extra clas- ses which I have formerly alluded to. For instance, if he hears lectures on Medical Jurisprudence he must have Dr. Gordon Smith's book on that subject; if he studies particularly the diseases of the eye, he may ei- ther purchase the Manual of Dr. G. C. Mon- teath or of Mr Travers ; on the diseases of the ear, Curtis has written a tolerable book; on the skin, the works of Bateman and Plumbe are deserving of attention; on the diseases of chil- dren, he may consult the works of Mr Burns and Dr. Clarke; and for the Theory of Medicine, &c., he must read the elegant Latin work of Dr. Gregory. And indeed whether the student attends lectures on these branches or not, he ought at any rate to have the books. He should, at all events, have some knowledge of these subjects, and if he has not a teacher, of course he has more need for other sources of information. There are still a few other books which I120 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. have to recommend to the student, as works highly deserving of perusal, when he gets pretty well advanced in his studies, and can find leisure to read them. These are Baillie's Morbid Anatomy, Paris' Pharmacologia, and Medical Chemistry, Thomson's System of Chemistry, Mason Good's System of the Practice of Physic, Armstrong on Fever, Johnson on Tropical Influence, Charles Bell's Operative Surgery, Sir Astley Cooper on Dislocations and Fractures, John Bell's Prin- ciples of Surgery, Burns on the Head and Neck, Abernethey on the Constitutional Treatment of Local Diseases, &c. These are all indeed valuable books, and cannot be too often consulted by the student. At the same time, I have again to remind him, that he must be advanced a certain length before he meddles with such books as these, and that to run too hastily from one book to another is only losing time and losing know- ledge. This finishes our list of books, and I trust 1 have recommended such works as the generality of teachers would recommend to their students. As I have already said, when a teacher gives advice at the commencement of his course, as to the books which he wishesON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 121 his pupils to be in possession of, of course i this should always be attended to, because he will in all probability in the course of his lectures make allusions to these books, and the student will run the risk of losing some- thing if he is without them. But in case of such advice not being given—in case of the student being any time at a loss—I hope by referring to the directions here laid down he will be able to go on until he falls in with lietter sources of information.LETTER VIII. ADVICE TO THE YOUNG PHYSICIAN OR SURGEON. Lisbon, August, 1826. " A physician must embrace and controul as many objects in con- tending with a disease, more especially if it be of a dangerous nature, as a general does in arranging his troops, and fighting a battle. Death presses upon him from numerous quarters, and nothing but the most accumulated vigour of every sense and faculty, exerted with a vigilance that precludes the abstraction of a single thought, or the repose of a moment, can ensure him success in his arduous conflict." American Lectures. I AM now (lone with the student, properly so called; and I proceed to give a few words of advice to the young physician or surgeon. After what I have said in the previous Let- ters, I am sure it will be unnecessary for me to dilate farther on the difficulty and impor- Ij tance of the work which the surgeon has to ij perform, and of the very responsible office |( which he enters upon. Of course, long before , the student has finished his studies, he knows | what are the difficulties and what are the \ duties of his profession, and he should not |123 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. have much instruction to seek when he comes to take upon himself the character of a phy- sician. When he is done with his academical education, if that education has been at all attended to, good sense and common reflec- tion, will be enough to point out to him the line of conduct which it is best to pursue, so that a preceptor, it may well be thought, is hardly wanted now. But as even obvious things cannot be too well impressed, and as a man cannot be too often told of that which it is proper for him to do; and, besides, as it is a part of the plan which I have laid down for myself, I go on to touch lightly on a few points which I think are important to be attended to by every one practising Physic or Surgery. And, first; the surgeon is not to think that although he is done with his college studies, he is done with study altogether. Although he is now supposed to be a person in possession of a large share of medical knowledge, yet he has not all the knowledge that he requires, and his labours in study cannot terminate yet; indeed, they are never to terminate. To keep any thing fresh in the mind, the memory must often recur to it. Even the most retentive of memories will124 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. lose their impressions, if these impressions be not now and then renewed. So, to keep up the knowledge which the surgeon has, he must return again and again to the lessons which were given him at school, and he must have his mind for ever intent upon medical subjects. This he must do even to keep his knowledge from decreasing; but to increase it, he must do more; he must begin, as it were, a new course of study, and draw infor- mation from sources which hitherto he has not been allowed to explore- When at school, we only get, after all, the rudiments of our education. We get merely the elements—the first detached principles—and these we must combine and work with afterwards, in order that we may see how the great fabric stands as a whole, and, if possible, bring something new and valuable out of the materials which have been given us. This is what, in nine instances out of ten, makes the great differ- ence between medical men. One gives up study when he leaves school; another begins then to apply himself with renewed vigour; and this last, although not indeed endowed with the same natural abilities as the first, may be the most original and the most valu- able in his profession. The surgeon, then,125 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. is never to relax in his endeavours after knowledge. He is to have his book in his hand as often as he can, and even when he has not his book, still he may have his mind usefully occupied. No one will be so much engaged in practice but, at any rate, he will have a little spare time to devote to reading and reflection ; and the more he reads and reflects, the better will he be prepared for every new case that comes before him. The sources from which the surgeon draws his knowledge are various. Independent of his own actual experience, he must be continu- ally anxious to profit by the labours of others, and be on the alert to get the earliest informa- tion of whatever may be going on in medical science either at home or abroad. Thus he brings a new remedy at once to the test, and if a successful one, he gives it early publicity, and brings early relief to the afflicted. It is astonishing the great good which has accrued to the profession, and, consequently, to socie- ty, from the immense number of Medical Journals and Reviews which have of late years sprung up in almost every part of the world, by which we have the earliest intelligence of whatever is new or interesting in the science, and by which we have all important facts126 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. registered and rendered imperishable. The medical man should, therefore, continually apply at these sources. He should be a reader of all the well conducted Journals of the day, and in so far as his own opportuni- ties and abilities allow, he ought to be a contributor to them. He should consult the ancient authors, for they also contain a great deal that is valuable, if he knows how to find it—if he knows how to separate the good from the bad—the useful from the useless. He ought to read every work of merit as it appears, and have at hand to consult, when he needs them, all the standard books of reference. And if, with this, he cultivates the society of the well-informed among his brethren, and endeavours to gather from them all the knowledge which their experience may be teaching them, he is, in truth, a zea- lous physician, and he will seldom be in difficulty in the practice of his profession. Nevertheless, it is in general rather an anxious season the first few years of the young physician's practice. He feels the responsi- bility of the office which he has undertaken, and he becomes alive to the difficulties which are every moment ready to start up in his way. He may have been educated well, and he mayON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 127 think tnat he has left nothing undone, in the way of acquiring knowledge; but in bringing his knowledge to the field of practice, he is tried at a task which is rather a difficult one, and, with all his knowledge, he proceeds with a fear and a want of confidence which he could not have anticipated. It is easy to run over in our minds the symptoms and treat- ment of a disease ; but it is not so easy to detect and treat the disease when it is actually before us. We may look at the practice of another, and think ourselves better learned than the man that is practising, but we might find it very different if we were actually to change places witli him. It is easy to say what we would do, and how dextrous we would be, in some sudden and severe accident, but let the accident once happen, and our promptitude and dexterity may not, perhaps, be so very apparent. In short, the mere knowledge of the school will not be quite enough for the practical business of the sur- geon. Experience must be gained before perfect ease and confidence can be gained, and anxiety must exist, almost as a matter of course, during the few first years of the sur- geon's labours. But, every day the burden is becoming lighter, because with every ad-128 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. dition of experience, there comes also an addition of confidence. And, at last, know- ing his own skill and his own diligence, he can think of even the most difficult cases without fear, and be perfectly at his ease under all circumstances. As I have formerly said, a medical man for his own sake, as well as for the sake of his patients, will endeavour to be wanting in no part of practice, either surgical or medical. He does not know what is to be required of him, and so he must be ready for every thing; at all events, he must be ready for all sudden and emergent cases. In protracted disease he has more time allowed him, and he can set his mind slowly and calmly to work; but in sudden events an instant demand is made upon his energy and skill, and he must do what is to be done at once, or his patient is lost. So upon all these points he is to be informed to the utmost; and it may not be disadvantageous if I now present shortly a few of these accidental cases to his notice. He should be particularly well acquainted with the situation of blood vessels and nerves, for these concern him much in all cases of wounds. He may be called to one who has wounded himself by accident, or in an at-ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 129 tempt to commit suicide ; or he may be called to another who has been wounded by chance in some fray, and in whatever way the wounds have been inflicted, whether by bullets or by instruments for cutting and stabbing, the salvation of the patient, for the time at least, may depend upon the surgeon's cutting in- stantly down upon the divided vessels, and tying them, which he can only do if he is well acquainted with their situation. I have already * drawn the student's attention to this point, namely, the necessity of observing ,well the relative situation and connection of these important parts in dissection; but it is really so important a matter that it deserves being noticed here again. In cases of frac- ture and dislocation, too, but especially as regards dislocations, the skill must be per- fectly ready. These are not indeed so urgent as the last class of accidents, but they are quite urgent enough in general to demand immediate aid ; and if the surgeon is not pos- sessed of all his necessary information when called upon, it will be unfortunate both for him and his patient. He may feel himself very awkwardly placed, and he may give his * Vide Letter IV.130 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. patient a great deal of unnecessary pain. Cases where poison has been administered, whether by accident or design, is another set of accidents where immediate judgment is required. If but a short time is lost here, all human aid becornes unavailing; the delete- rious matter does its work so completely, that nothing can do away with its baleful effects; so that the manner of extracting poisons from the stomach, their antidotes, and the general treatment of all cases of that kind should be quite familiar to the surgeon. A fourth set of accidents demanding equal knowledge and promptitude, is made up of those cases where, from immersion in water, strangulation, or the inhalation of noxious vapours, suffocation has nearly happened. The loss of a few moments here also may decide the fate of the patient. The vital spark is flying fast, and can only be saved by the most active interference; the sul'geon must, therefore, set to work on the instant—he must not have to think for a moment about his means. Lastly, in cases of flooding in pregnant women, or in women in the puerperal state, active interference and great management are required. Perhaps before we can reach the woman she is already nearly exhausted, and one gush more of life'sON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 131 warm blood is irrecoverably to sink her; how necessary is it, then, that we should know how to prevent this gush, and how to husband the strength that remains. These are the points which I have thought it proper to notice, and no one I am sure will deny their urgency, or the necessity of keeping them always in mind. Perfect and ready knowledge upon these subjects, will not only save lives, but it may give the sur- geon a name, and bring him forward into no- tice when he little expects it. These are cases where people are generally looking on, and noting well the conduct of the practi- itioner, and if he be at all at a loss, they do ;not fail to observe it, and as little do they Ifail to publish it to the world, and thus the i character of the practitioner sustains a blemish twhich will not be easily removed. But if, on the contrary, he is dextrous, they are is ready to observe and publish this, and Vom one single fortunate circumstance of his kind, the person who never dreamed of ame may be brought to a very exalted situa- ion. Some indeed err at this time, not so much 'rom want of knowledge, as from want of pre- cnceof mind. They have knowledge enouo^h, »uttheconfusionaroundthem,the suddenness'ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 182 with which they have been called to the acci- dent, and the enquiries and observations of spectators, all serve to upset their ideas, and make them do things not perhaps quite as they should be done. Presence of mind, there- fore, is just as necessary a quality as knowledge, and it should be just as eagerly sought after. Whatever the case may be —although there may be many spectators, and these commenting upon all that is done by the surgeon, yet he is not to think of them at all—he is to endeavour just to be as cool as if no one were observing him. It is true, they are appalling enough sometimes the scenes which the surgeon has to witness.— For example, in cases of suicide, where the unhappy person has attempted it by cutting the throat; when we are sent for to visit him, we may find him lying on the bed, or on the floor of the apartment, in the same state in which he was found by the attendants; the whole bed deluged with blood; the horrible gaping wound presenting itself; the face in- dicating the last dreadful resolution of the insane mind ; and the body stretched out, it may be, lifeless, an awful example of what aberated intellect will do ; while the afflicted family and friends are lamenting around you,ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 133 or looking on in settled and silent despair. This is no doubt awful—it is terrible to the feeling heart—still it must not appall the surgeon—nothing is to be too awful for him. He is to step instantly and boldly forward, examine the wound, search for the divided vessels, and tie them without losingc a mo- ment, unless it be evident that the wound has been a mortal one. He is not to attend to friends, or lookers-on, or give them a mo- ment's thought. He has been sent for to stop the flow of blood, and that he must do immediately. His business now is to do, not to talk.* Seeing, then, that the surgeon has to act in such trying and important cases, and that he knows not at what hour he may be called to be present at these events, it must be evi- dent how necessary it is that the medical man should be exceedingly sober and abste- mious in his habits. It is ruinous in any man, of any profession, to indulge in the immoderate use of inebriating liquors, but in the surgeon it is most blameable of all, and just for this reason, that he is never mas- tolate'tir/'"?^ -"persons an do nn 'T^'""'''^''^' those who are actuaUy Required They not lose timet ' ' P'-^^^--r w 11 not lose time in remonstrating with them.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. ter of his own time. Other men have in general the night, at least to themselves, and though they may take the liberty of indulg- ing in their cups in the evening, yet if they are sober in the morning, they may go on for a long period without people observ- ing much about the matter. But he may be called at all hours of the night as well as the day, and if he be found intoxicated, even slightly intoxicated, it will be a sad thing both for him and his patient. I have heard men boast of what they have done when inebriated —of how dextrous] y they went about matters, and how skilfully they treated even a diffi- cult case. These men would even maintain, that the stimulus of wine was occasionally rather an advantage to them than otherwise. But this is what no correct person can admit. I hold, that if the intellect is even clouded— if the system is even heated by wine—the person is not so able to act as in his moments of perfect sobriety. And if the stimulus has been carried fartlier,if he is really inebri- ated, his mind will of course be still more confused, and he will to a certainty, at some time or other, commit some very unhappy mistake. If it requires the whole force of a strong intellect to comprehend the natureON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 135 and management of disease^ and if even he with the clearest head is occasionally baffled in his attempts at a correct judgment, how is it possible that a man, whose mind is stupified by inebriation, will ever arrive at correct conclu- sions. It is absurd, the very thought of it. —He may, in common cases, get on tole- rably well, but in all cases of difficulty he will be terribly behind; where a ;ober man errs once, he must, calculating moderately, be twice in error. And the great misfortune is, that when once an individual has given him- self up to the pleasures of the bottle, he is at no time capable of practising his profession with correctness. Although he may only indulge in the evening, yet he is in the morn- ing suffering under the baleful depression which so invariably follows excessive de- bauching, and he is scarcely recovered when he repeats the intoxicating dose. Thus he is continually incapacitated—he is at no time free from the effects of the poison. And thus he goes on, becoming every day more fixed in his unhappy vice, and every day is taking away from the vigour of his mind as well as his body, until at last the strong body is brought low, and the vigoi'ous intellect is rendered imbecile, and he becomes an iner-ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. vated, unhappy, good-for-nothing being, on the earth, whom nobody can respect, and that only the lowest of the low will associate with. These cases are indeed too frequent. When a young man enters upon the practice of Medicine, he enters of course more at large into society, and there is a fear, if he be not on his guard, that he will be caught in some of society's snares. His patients, and the friends of his patients, wish to show him at- tention, and they ask him to their festivals. He accepts the kind invitation, because pro- bably he has plenty of time on hand, and he does not think that his acceptance of these invitations can either lead him away from his business, or render him less able for it. But by and bye he begins to find out that he is becoming unusually fond of convivial meet- ings. He begins to find that he really cannot do well without the pleasures of the table; the labour of visiting patients becomes now rather more annoying to him than formerly; he pre- fers sitting comfortably at his wine to running after the sick; and of course hewillseepatients no oftener than is absolutely necessary. How- ever, the evil increases, and he comes even to neglect his patients ; when he ought to beON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 137 with them he is absent, and when he is sent for he is perhaps not quite in a state to ap- pear before them ; and, at last, in some un- fortunate hour, he commits a fault which cannot be overlooked—he makes a blunder which is palpable to all—and the cry of the public is raised against him, and nothing can save him from falling. Even great talent will not support him now, for it is known that his talent has been crushed by dissipa^ tion, and confidence can no longer be reposed in him. The only way in which he may re- deem himself so far, will be by amending his conduct. But this is seldom done; he conti- nues rather in his old ways; having lost all hope of ever regaining respectability, he sinks deeper and deeper into the accursed vice; and thus he thatwould have accumulated wealth, and flou- rished among men, had he kept himself within the bounds of sobriety, becomes an outcast, and drags out a miserable existence, neglected and forgotten by all. Yet, after all, we would not debar the me- dical man altogether from the enjoyments of life. His profession no doubt is a laborious one, and takes up nearly the whole of his time, but that is the very reason why, if he can manage it at all, he should be allowed toON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. taste of the sweets of life like other men.— Neither body nor mind can be kept at labour incessantly. We must interpose occasional relaxation, if we would keep the human ma- chine in healthy action—and, therefore it is absolutely necessary that the medical man, who has such severe and engrossing duties to perform, should now and then have a cessation from toil. And not only should he cease the labour of the body, but he ought to invigorate and recreate the mind, by taking part with the rest of society in the innocent amusements which may be around him, for thus he prepares himself better for labours which may be to come. Of course, we are supposing him to have the same fondness for society, and the same inclination for enjoy- ment, that are found in the generality of men. There are some beings for whom society has no charms—whose whole enjoyment is in seclusion—^^and such people will not seek or require the recreation I am now alluding to. But wherever the heart is buoyant—^^yherever the spirit is such that it longs for the society of kindred spirits—it may safely enough be given up to moderate joy. Even the medi- cal man, as I have already said, during the time he has to spare, may be like his fellows.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 139 If he never lets pleasure interfere with his duty, we cannot say that he does wrong,—if he is ready to visit the sick when the demand is made upon him, what else have we to ask of him. There are many who maintain, however, that medical men, on account of the nature of their profession, should preserve a deport- ment somewhat different from the rest of so- ciety. It is supposed that, like clergymen, they should be especially sedate and circum- spect in their manner, and that a certain de- gree of gravity should accompany them con- tinually in their walk through life. It is thought that, from having so much to do with suffering and death, and thereby seeing the uncertain tenure of life, their hearts should be humbled, and all earthly vanities should be as nothing to them. And with this we must agree, in so far. It is true that the me- dical man should preserve a deportment be- coming the serious character of his profession, a"nd when affliction demands it, he should be ready to evince that seriousness which, if it does not soothe, will at least not disturb, af- fliction, but that he should be called upon to wear always the serious character, is what I cannot at all agree to. To some seriousness140 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. is natural, and to them it can be no restraint, but where there is a tendency to liveliness in the disposition, it is not so easy to preserve always the sedate manner, and when I consi- der that it is not necessary to do so, I am sorry to think that the public should ever have set it down as a requisite for medical men. I am not onlv satisfied that a moderate degree of gaiety in a physician will not be prejudicial, but, on the con- trary, I know it will often be useful.— When a patient has passed the dangerous period of his disease, when he is slowly re- covering from a severe illness, if it be admis- sable to talk with him, I hardly know a better stimulus than a little well-timed gaiety thrown in with the discourse of the physician. It in- deed acts just as a cordial would do, inspiriting both body and mind, and making the patient rise for a time above his weakness. But, granting that gaiety was never to be required at the bedside of sickness, is the surgeon not to be allowed to show it elsewhere ? Is he to be doomed to wear the face of misan- thropy continually ? Why, this is what even clergymen themselves would not demand; for the business of life could not be carried on under such tristful restrictions. AfflictionON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 141 may damp while we actually behold it, but it is a wise provision of nature, that with the removal of the object we lose the poignancy of the sting. And it is not at all necessary for the physician, unless in the hour when he is actually beholding sickness, to have a demeanour much different from other men. Yet, it is well for the surgeon when he in some other respects resembles the clergy- man ; when he can commune with his pa- tient on heavenly matters, and give comfort to the mind, at the time that he labours for the relief of the body. Some physicians are well calculated for this, being of a religious turn of mind themselves; they take a pleasure in introducing religious subjects to others, and especially to the sick, who they think are most in need of religious consolation. And sometimes much good accrues from this, in a corporeal as well as in a spiritual sense.— The mind, soothed by religion, becomes placid and resigned, which is often the very thing we are most anxious to obtain in sick- ness. In some diseases, so long as the thoughts are disturbed, so long as the mind is not at ease, all the remedies we can administer are of little use, because the irritation of the mind is communicated to the body, and our142 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. antidotes then take no effect. But get the mind once perfectly at ease, and you may have a favourable change in the ailment, per- haps without the aid of medicine at all. Therefore, it is good to be able to talk reli- giously to the sick, even upon this account; but it is our duty, besides, when we are fitted for it, to commune with them on account of their welfare in an after state. And in ge- neral the religious physician is the most re- spected physician. Even the wicked, when they are on the bed of sickness, will not turn from the heavenly advice of a good man ; on the contrary, they will listen to it, and be pleased, even though they are to forget all his good lessons when they are blessed again with health. Some will scoff at the medical man who is religious, and tell him that he is med- dling with what does not belong to him ; but that has no effect on the truly good man; he perseveres, knowing that one day or other he may have his reward. It is customary with some to say, too, that the dress of the medical practitioner should correspond in some degree with the dress of the clergyman ; namely, that it ought to be black, or, at all events of a sombre character. Now this appears to me to be a still more143 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. absurd opinion than that regarding deport- ment. Can the medical man not be allowed to dress as he pleases, so long as he does not put on either ridiculous or offensive habili- ments ? Why should he not be able to pre- scribe as well in a blue coat as in a black one? If I were ill, I should probably hardly observe what dress my physician was in, but if I were to notice at all, I rather think I would prefer a light dress. There is sombreness enough about a sick-room without the physician's adding to it by his sombre clothing. And unless my physician actually made himself a dandy, (for then I might have doubts as to the capability of his mind,) I would not find fault with him.LETTER IX. ADVICE TO THE YOUNG PHYSICIAN OR SURGEON CONTINUED. Lisbon^ September, 1826. " If the physician possesses gentleness of manners, and a compas- sionate heart, and what Shakspeare so emphatically caUs ' the milk of human kindness,' the patient feels his approach Uke that of a guar- dian angel ministering to his rehef; while every visit of a physician who is unfeeling, and rough in his manners, makes his heart sink within him, as at the presence of one who comes to pronounce his doom." Dr. Gregory. There are a great many who fail in practice from their irritability of temper. When the body is rendered weak by disease, the mind loses also a portion of its vigour, and they who in health are extremely gentle and rea- sonable, become often peevish and childish when labouring under sickness. They take up notions which are erroneous, and pertina- ciously adhere to them; they trouble the physician with a multitude of unnecessary enquiries; they refuse, perhaps, even to do or to take what is ordered for them ; andON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 145 thus the physician's time is unnecessarily taken up, and the cure delayed. Now, a physician possessing an irritable temper, is apt to get ruffled at these things, and to throw himself into passion, when it would be better if he kept himself cool. He is apt to insist too harshly upon things being done, and by his peremptoriness of manner, he offends both patients and friends. If he is a man of great talent, they may continue to employ him on account of his talent. They will overlook his unfortunate disposition, merely to get the benefit of his sage advice. But if he is only of ordinary ability, the probability is, that he will be dismissed, and they will seek a more amiable man, knowing well that gentleness of manner frequently accellerates a cure, when unkindness, on the contrary, retards it. The physician, certainly, is not to be foiled, on account of the whims or caprice of a pa-» tient, in executing whatever it may be neces- sary to do ; he must be firm in carrying into effect whatever the disease demands. But while he presses on his patient the necessity of conforming to the rules prescribed, he ought always to do it with affability; and even when he has to urge a matter with ear- nestness, he should at the same time urge it KON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 146 with kindness. Thus the patient becomes attached to his physician, and he looks upon him as a friend that bears with him in his weakness, and sympathizes with him in his afflictions. He readily accedes to whatever he asks of him, because he cannot refuse a request that is made so kindly. And so all goes on well; the patient recovers ; and, out of gratitude for his attention, he spreads far and wide the amiable character of his medical attendant. It is necessary, too, to attend in some measure to the caprices of friends, and avoid also irritability towards them. The relatives of patients, from anxiety about them, and for want of knowing better^ are often interro- gating the surgeon about the complaint, and asking to know more, perhaps, than they should know. They will even venture to give opinions, and offer to interfere in a slight degree with the surgeon's practice, of course very much to his annoyance, and, perhaps, somewhat to the detriment of the sick person. This, however, we must bear with just as well as we can. So long as the interference does not go too far we must put up with it, and when it goes so far as to demand a check, that check should be given in the gentlestON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 147 manner. We should make allowances for the frailties of friends as well as for the frail- ties of patients, for they, indeed, are also in a diseased state ; they are feverished from anxiety; they are weakened from continual attention; and their minds are neither so strong nor so collected as when all around them are in health. We ought to bear this continually in mind, for this will certainly make us more charitable towards their fail- ings. And if the surgeon takes the right method, he will not in general have much difficulty in overcoming their prejudices and caprices ; a little firmness and gentle persua- sion on his part will very soon bring both patient and friends into the right way of ^ thinking. A physician ought never to hurry in the examination of patients. It is impossible that he can examine a patient well, unless he proceeds with the utmost caution, and satisfies himself upon every point, even the most mi- nute, of the ailment. Some plume them- selves upon the rapidity with which they can detect disease, and the number of patients they can go through in a very short time; but this is a bad thing to take credit for, as it argues that but a superficial examination148 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. has been given ; and we generally find that those people, with all their cleverness, are every now and then falling into mistakes. Some diseases, indeed, are so evident that but little examination is required, and the means of cure are also so plain, that there can be as little hesitation regarding them. But many—a great many—are obscure, and require particular inquiry, and if this inquiry be not given, the patient has not fair play;— either his disease is allowed to go on and prove fatal to him, or at least he is allowed to labour under it for a much longer period than is necessary. And the great loss is, that when a surgeon gets into this system of hurrying, he cannot check it; he does it at all times—in all cases, whether clear or ob- scure ; and the consequence is, that at some time or other a more careful surgeon falls in with some one of his patients, and detects at once what he did not detect in all his exami- nations, and thus the skill of the one is ex- alted, while the other gets considerably into the shade. This is what has raised many, even of moderate talent, to a great height in their profession—namely, a strict attention to examination. Neither patients nor friends like to see a surgeon with a hurried manner.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 149 They think he is heedless about their case, and, even in trifling ailments, people do not like to see themselves neglected. Let it be remembered, then, that care in examination is an indispensable requisite for practice. It is needless to say that we are obliged to hurry, from the number of patients we have got in hand. This is an excuse that will not serve. If our practice accumulates upon us so fast as this, why, we must put a stop to its accumulation. We have no right to take more patients than we can well attend to, especially since there are so many who would be glad to ease us of the burden. The health of society must not be sacrificed to our im- moderate love of ffain. In performing operations the same lesson is to be remembered—never hurry. Let nothing induce you to set yourself against time when you have a difficult and uncertain work to perform. Learn to despise those who will look at their watch before beainnin^ an operation, and say, I will certainly be done at such a time. I am no enemy to dexterity, neither do I dislike speed in ope- rations; but I like to see dexterity with cautiousness, and speed without rashness. There are some men who can operate quickly150 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. —extremely quick—and at the same time operate well—operate without the least fear of committing a blunder. But there are others who, although they go about the business neatly and correctly enough, have to go about it very slowly, or, if they hurry, something very unfortunate may occur in their hands. The sooner operations are done the better, no doubt, because the par- tients are the sooner free from the pain of the knife; but quick operators cannot be got at all times, and when a slow operator has to undertake a serious operation, he should do it in his own sure way, and thus he will be more successful, and he will be deserving of much more praise than if he took upon himself the manner of a very quick and dextrous man. This ought to be the rule^do your operation well—never mind the time. People may comment, and make comparisons, but that should give you no uneasiness. If you are satisfied that you are acting as you ought to do, why should you give the opinions of others a moment's con- sideration. When any thing new happens to the phy- sician, either in the symptoms or treatment of a disease, if it be a fact at all worthy of re-ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 151 membrance, he is not only bound to note it well himself, but he is bound also to commu- nicate it as early as possible to his brethren. There are some men, however, who keep fast hold of their knowledge, in the hope that by means of it they may draw towards them- selves an additional stock of patients—who conceal their discoveries for the mere purpose of accumulating wealth, and who will sell, but will not promulgate without a reward, the fruits of their experience. But such conduct betrays a sad narrowness of principle. It is altogether unbecoming in a man who practises a learned and liberal profession. He is a venal and heartless being who can be guilty of it, for it is the bounden duty of all to do what they can to ameliorate the condi- tion of men. Society is ever ready to hail the man who achieves any thing for its good, and gives him what ought to be dearer to him than all other things—namely, its grati- tude and praise. And he that is not satisfied with this—he that is not fully repaid for whatever he may do by this heart-felt tribute —^has neither kindness nor philanthropy in him, and he is undeserving of a reward at all. And, in giving to the world the remark- able circumstances which occur to us in3 52 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. practice, we are bound not only to publish those things which redound to our credit, and wherein we have shown ingenuity or skill, but also those things wherein we have failed or fallen into error, in order that we may prevent others from falling into the same mistake. It has been too much the case with medical men, to blazon forth to society all the creditable parts of their practice, while the unsuccessful parts—their failures and mistakes—they have studiously kept in the back-ground. But if it be the duty of the mariner, when he strikes upon a rock, to put up a beacon there, as a warning to those who may follow him in the tract, so it is the duty of the surgeon, when he commits a blunder, to publish it, that it may prove a beacon to those who may be liable to fall into the same error. No doubt there is a natural dislike in man to become the recorder of his own failings and defects. But we know that the best will fail, and that the most careful will occasionally fall into error, and therefore we ought to be ready to praise rather than to blame the man who publishes his misfor- tunes, knowing that it is his regard for truth which urges him to the disclosure—knowing that it is his candour which is bringing toON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 153 light what the hypocrisy of others is keeping in the shade. He, therefore, who has the advancement of science at heart, and who is anxious to benefit mankind as much as lies in his power, will promulgate whatever may happen to him, whether it be to bring him praise, or draw upon him censure. If the aged practitioner, towards the close of his professional life, would draw out a list of his unfortunate cases, to be left as a legacy to the generations following him, he would, perhaps, benefit them as much by that pro- ceeding as by the successes which he makes known to them in his lifetime. If each ex- perienced man were to lay open to us what I shall term his Book of Blunders, we would have our knowledge immeasurably increased, and both the profession and society would owe him a double proportion of gratitude. When young practitioners are in consulta- tion with others older than themselves, their behaviour should invariably be respectful and humble. There is nothing so disgusting as to see a boy setting himself up in the face of grey hairs, and presuming to give his advice in an authoritative manner. Even admitting the young man to be clever—granting that he is well acquainted with the subject upon154 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. which he speaks—still modesty is demanded of him, and he must communicate his advice in the proper way. There are some who pride themselves very much on their modern learning—on the opportunities they have had at the schools, in these modern times, to pick up knowledge—and when they meet with physicians of an older date, they are apt to hold both them and their opinions rather in contempt, especially if they be young men who have high notions of their own medical acumen. But they forget that these antiquated physicians have been observ- ing all along the different revolutions in me- dical science, and having had the experience of a lifetime to guide them, of course they are well qualified to judge what is best, either in doctrine or practice. They must be infi- nitely better acquainted with the theory of disease, and, consequently, infinitely abler to treat it than any young practitioner, however acute, and however well stored with the learning of the day. One sentence from such men, perhaps, relating to a disease actually before them, might in a moment put the young upstart to shame, and show him how flimsy and superficial all his learning was when brought into comparison with theON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 155 learning of the man who had the experience of years to direct him. It is not expected that the young practitioner is to forbear giv- ing his opinion, or to allow errors to pass when he sees them committed by elderly men. On the contrary, it is his bounden duty to speak out, and to expose error wher- ever he can detect it. But then, he must consider well before he opposes, and when he does oppose, he must oppose with that mildness and respect which is due from one man to another. And thus he will not only insure the support and respect of the mem- bers of his own profession, but of all others who may have an opportunity of judging of his conduct. Indeed, instead of despising and turning away from the opinions and practice of an- tiquated physicians, I seriously recommend the young physician to cultivate their ac- quaintance, and observe their methods of treating disease. Almost every old practi- tioner possesses knowledge, and valuable knowledge too, which the profession in gene- ral is not in possession of, because it is only a few that will take the trouble of sending forth to the world every new view that opens up to them. When we are young and am-156 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. bitious of fame, and even when we are old, if we still retain our zealousness, we do not neglect to tell the world what we are doing. But with many, when years steal upon them, and when labours accumulate, they are either too lazy or too busy to write much for society; and unless their ideas have been caught up by their associates, their original and practi- cal knowledge dies with themselves. This is one great reason why the young of the profession should seek the society of their seniors. For thus they accumulate a multi- tude of facts which they could not get any where else, and which, if they know how to value them, they may turn to good account. Not that I would have any one adopt, or servilely follow the opinions of any man, however old, or however famed. Each must think for himself, and set his principles to work immediately he enters on the field of practice ; for it is only by so doing that he will become eminent, and make dis- coveries in his profession. A mere routinist —a mere follower of other men's practice— will never become an originator himself It is only the man who thinks and wlio acts continually upon his given'principles, that will become the original and truly philoso-ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 157 phical physician. But while we prosecute the subject ourselves with earnestness, we can also avail ourselves of the views of other men. Each original mind can only do a little in the way of improvement; but when two or more are combined, then something greater may be achieved; and thus it is, that by the combination of talented men, disco- veries are made, and improvements are car- ried into effect, which would never have been heard of but for such a combination. A medical man is never, upon any account, to give up a case ; that is, he is not to forsake his patient, though his case may seem hope- less, nor intermit his remedies, though he may suppose mortal symptoms have come on. For it sometimes happens, that even those that we pronounce dying to a certainty, get the better of their disease. A favourable change comes when no one is looking for it, and the being who was supposed to be taking his departure very fast, comes back to the world after all. And then the physician who was so fast in his opinion—who was so sure of death that he gave up his patient—is placed in rather an awkward situation, and societv will afterwards be rather in doubt as to his skill. There have been instances where the158 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. physician has taken his leave, saying he could do no more—that no hope was left—and another physician has been called in, who has put remedies still in trial, and has succeeded in restoring to health a deserted patient. This has happened; and happened too with men whose skill was supposed to be great. To avoid such unlucky mistakes, therefore, I advise you always to weigh mat- ters well before venturing to give an opinion; and I tell you also, that you are culpable in a very great degree, if you do not continue to use, up to the very last, all the remedies which your art alFords. Indeed, I cannot conceive an opinion more opposed to common sense, than that of leaving patients to their fate when they get into what we generally term a hopeless state. How are we ever to arrive at any thing new, if we do not prosecute a matter to the very last? Do we not see every day, in the common concerns of life, a bright clearing up of the most unpromising circumstances? Do we not generally see, that those who give up exertion when fortune fails them, fall irretrievably into misery, while those who fight on, even though hope seems gone, come in the end to be prosperous as before? Well, then, the physician shouldON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 159 fight on, without giving up. He should not give up his combat with disease, while yet a shadow of a chance remains of his being suc- cessful. For thus he may save lives which otherwise he might lose; and he may save himself too from mistakes which might ma- terially affect his reputation. It is necessary sometimes to give an opi- nion to friends, and to patients themselves, on the probable issue of a disease, when it is be- ginning to assume rather a serious aspect.— Friends are anxious to have important mat- ters arranged—the patient has his affairs to settle, he has to allot provision for his family, &c., and they are anxious that you should tell them candidly your opinion of the complaint. Now, this is a very delicate situation to act in ; you require to have all your senses about you, in order that you do not commit a mis- take, either on one side or other. It will, of course, be a great mistake if you lead friends astray by promising them recovery when death is to come. And it wdll be an unlucky mis- take also, if you prognosticate death when recovery takes place. Some people, when they suppose themselves drawing to their latter end, muster up even more strength than is natural to them ; they get possessed160 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. of great fortitude, and are perfectly resigned either to live or die. But there are others who cannot so well reconcile themselves to the awful change ; who get depressed in an unusual degree when they are told of life being near a close ; and therefore it is neces- sary to be very cautious in communicating intelligence of this kind to people in sickness. I am quite certain that instances have been, when people have lost their lives from being prematurely told of the dangerous na- ture of their disease. The depression of mind which ensues weakens the body still more, and the disease then takes a hold which it will not relinquish. The surgeon should, therefore, be very sure of the matter indeed before he discloses his opinion. He should consider with great caution, and even then, when he is satisfied as to the danger of the complaint, I would not have him tell all he thinks to the patient. He may state the case as it is to the friends ; but to the sick person himself he should rather tell what may be than what he is actually expecting.— I would tell him that his ailment is indeed dangerous, and that there is a probability of its even increasing; but unless it were a mat- ter about which there could be no doubt, ION MEDICAL EDUCATION, «&C. 161 would not disclose to him in full his unpro- mising condition. For if we take away hope, we take awav one of our best remedies. If we say death is certain, we may perhaps, by our melancholy prognostic, be the means of producing it. And, therefore, if we do warn, we should warn with circumspection ; but we should rather cheer with good hopes so long as their is the least chance of a fa- vourable change.* It ought to be a rule with us, never to make known in society what is going on in the houses of the sick we are attending, nor reveal the secrets of our patients. People in sickness have often to let their medical man into the knowledge of circumstances—family concerns perhaps—altogether apart from the disease, which they would be very sorry to let the world know of; but, conceiving their surgeon to be a confidential person, they let him into the secret without hesitation. The disease, too, is often of such a nature that the patient is anxious to conceal it as much as possible, and of course he supposes that his * There are, unhappily, a few diseases of the body where indeed almost no hope can be entertained—where mental depression, at least, can take but little effect—and in these ailments there is not the same call upon us for reserve.162 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. medical attendant will be the last person to spread what he wishes to hide. Some have hurt their prospects materially by betraying confidence in this respect. The matter told comes to the ears of the people sooner or later, and they cannot forgive the transgres- sion ; they feel hurt at the exposure, and in all probability they will employ that surgeon no more. We are therefore strictly to ob- serve silence. What we know we are at li- berty to tell—that we may tell freely; but what we have even a doubt about the pro- priety of telling, that we should keep to our- ^ selves. And, perhaps, as a general rule, the less we say the better. A blabber in general makes more enemies than friends by his gos- siping. There are a few physicians in the world who seek for practice in rather a dishonour- able manner. They are glad when they get an opportunity to comment on the practice of another, in order that they may find fault, and take away somewhat from the reputation of perhaps a rival in trade. They give their opinion upon cases which they have never seen, but which they have merely heard de- scribed by people very incompetent to de- scribe them, and, by pointing out a multitudeON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 163 of errors, they make credulous people believe that all others are wanting in knowledge, and that they alone are infallible. If they are called to a case where another is already attending, (probably, too, they are called with- out the knowledge of the first-employed practitioner,) they are sure not to be quite satisfied with what has already been done, and the plan which they propose is the one which ought to be put in practice. But they will sometimes even not wait to be called; if they can have any sort of introduction at all, they will go unasked, and try to get themselves in, even to the exclusion of the already-attending practitioner. In short, they are resolved on getting practice, whether by fair means or foul; they are not in pos- session of upright and honourable minds themselves, and therefore they fear but little the censure which may be attached to them by honourable men ; gain is what they want, and they will have it even at the expence of their good name. But how unwarrantable, and how despicable is such conduct. In the first place, no man ought to give an opinion, that is, a decided opinion, upon a case which he himself has not seen, even if it has been reported to him by a medical man ; and when164 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. the report has been given by friends, for in- stance, who are not supposed to be in the least acquainted with medical subjects, he should give no opinion at all. This I wish to impress particularly on the mind of the young surgeon, for he may be guilty of it without intent to hurt any one. It is one of the golden rules of practice, to be cau- tious in giving our opinion on disease at all times, and especially on a disease which we have not had an opportunity of examining. In the next place, as there is often room for difference of opinion regarding a disease, how easy is it for one who is inclined, to set his way up as the best, and give an unfavour- able impression of another's practice. But what just man would do this ? And, least of all, who but a sordid wretch would steal into a sick-chamber, for the sake of undermining, and taking patients out of the hands of ano- ther. I am sorry to think that such methods should ever have been resorted to; but it is consoling to know, that they never have been resorted to with much success. Foul means may serve a man for a time, but fair ones will prevail in the end ; for truth is so stub- born a thing that it will work its way in spite of whatever may oppose it. He who acts]65 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. fairly and honourably will, to a certainty, be most successful eventually ; for honour is in- , deed the best policy. It will now and then happen that we are sent for to see patients who are said to be very ill, and when we go we do not find much the matter; at least not so much as we antici- pated. It may be to a patient that we have not visited before, whohasbeen suddenly taken ill, and both he and his friends have become alarm- ed; or it may be to one we have been visiting daily, but in whom some change for the worse has taken place since our last visit. Those people who are seldom the subjects of disease, and friends who have not had an opportunity of witnessing much disease, are exceedingly apt to think badly even of a slight complaint when it attacks suddenly, and their anxiety can only be removed by hearing the opinion of the medical man. A messenger is at once despatched for him, and he is told not to lose a moment in coming. Now, some surgeons, on being sent for in this way, and finding but little the matter when they go; are rather displeased, and do not hesitate to show their displeasure even to the patient and friends. When they are sent for next time, they are a little more tardy in making their ap-16G ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. pearance ; and indeed, unless they are pretty well assured of the matter being serious, they may not go at that time at all. Those sur- geons, however, who adopt this method, do themselves very considerable injury, for peo- ple are hurt when they suppose themselves neglected, and sometimes give up their sur- geon altogether when he does not attend them so often or so readily as they wish.— Besides, it is unfeeling in a medical man to be irritated, because he does not find his pa^ tient so ill as he anticipated. Ought he not rather to be glad that his help is not much required ? Ought he not rather to rejoice in being able to assure those around him that all will soon be well ? When we recol- lect, too, that sometimes, in consequence of over-anxiety in friends, we are enabled to detect disease early, and prevent it from be- coming dangerous, we should not be ill- pleased though they occasionally fall into error, and trouble us rather more than is ne- cessary. He that does not go when he is sent for, because he imagines there is not much need for him, is presuming upon what may not be the case, and if any thing unfor- tunate happens, he may have cause forever afterwards to regret his negligence. WhenON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 167 you are desired to pay a visit, if you are not otherwise engaged, (medically engaged,) lose not a moment. It is the duty of every medi- cal man to obey every call which comes, if he has not at the time something more im- portant in hand. And he that is readiest to obey calls, will be most successful in practice, and most esteemed in the world. A surgeon ought to be as little as possible out of the way, in order that those who need him may find him readily. And when he is absent, he ought either to let it be known where he is, or at any rate when he is to re- turn, in order that he may be sent for, if he is wanted hurriedly, or that people may know at what hour they can rely upon him. This may seem a trivial matter to mention, but it is, nevertheless, sometimes a very important one; for many have lost themselves in prac- tice solely from this cause. People do not like to be disappointed often in a medical man. If they call a few times, and if he is absent, they apply to some other, and this other, if he be a steady man, retains them. The rule is easily observed, and they who are anxious to succeed in practice, will take care to remember it. And, in order to entice the medical man to168 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. remain at home, and so to keep him more in the way, I take the liberty of recommending the married state to him. It may be thought that I am straying rather from my subject in touching upon this head, but I am not; I am quite justified in alluding to it here. AVhat- ever is for the physician's benefit I am right in setting before him; and marriage, generally speaking, I would suppose to be beneficial to him. For not only will it keep him more at home, but, as a married man, he will be em- ployed in cases—cases relating to females— when a single man (merely because he is single) he will be kept back—of course, I do not mean to dilate on the subject of marriage. I merely give the hint, for those to take it who please. But I dare say the majority will agree with me in thinking, that the sooner medical men, and other men too, get married, the better. And when the surgeon is thus settled in life, if he is really a good and contented man, I know not a being that is happier than he. —A clergyman, beloved by his parishioners, and settled in some sweet secluded spot, away from the pomp and bustle of the crowded city, has always appeared to me to be in possession of the most blessed situationON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 169 on earth. But perhaps the good surgeon does not fall far short of him in happiness.— For he also can seclude himself, if he pleases, from all that is bustling and annoying in society; he can also be holy in manner like the other; and, like the other, he should be continually employed in doing good to those around him. Every day that passes over him gives him an opportunity of reliev- ing distress, and the blessings of those that he relieves are gratifying to him above all other praise. As he accumulates years, so he accumulates honours ; the esteem of men ripens with his age; and when he is called to another world, his good works follow him.LETTER X. ON AMATEUR-PHYSICIANS, &c. Lisbon, September, 1826. " Ye keu Jock Hornbook i' the Clachan, Diel mak his king's-hood int' a spleuchan, He's grown sae weel acquaint wi' Buchan," &c. Burns. I AM now done with the regular physician, and I come to what I term the amateur, or would-be Y^jdcmn. I mean those who get either from books, or from attendance at lectures, a slight knowledge both of the theory and practice of Medicine, but who, not being in- tended for the profession,think it unnecessary to go very deeply into it. A person who has a taste for general inquiry will be anxi- ous to become acquainted with Medicine as well as with other things, and if his time and means permit, he will devote some attention to it. A student of Divinity, for example, while he is at the University, if he can spare time, may attend lectures upon Medicine; or,171 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. when he leaves College, and becomes settled in some place of retirement, he may then find time to consult medical authors. A stu- dent of Law may do the same. A man of fortune, who has no particular profession, may do it still more readily. So, indeed, may any one who has the taste for it. They do not get a thorough acquaintance with matters, but they get a general knowledge of principles. They do not learn the particular treatment of disease, but they get a respect- able notion of its general treatment, which is as far as it is necessary for them to go. It is a good thing to be in possession of this knowledge, on two accounts. First, it enlarges the stock of information—it enables men to think and talk correctly about disease; and thus tends to do away with those prejudices and er- roneous notions which prevail in society regard- ing it. Secondly, a man in possession of this knowledge may sometimes be of use when a better educated person is not at hand. Incases of accident, for instance, at sea, or in some re- mote corner on shore, where no surgeon is at hand, it is a valuable thing, if a person, with even a slight degree of medical know- ledge, is in the way. He may do the needful in the meantime; he may step forward and172 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. lend his assistance till the surgeon's arrival. And even in protracted ailments such a per- son may often be of the greatest service. It often happens, that people, either from being poor, or from being out of the way of medi- cal assistance, cannot have a physician in constant attendance, even though their com- plaint demands it. But if there be any cha- ritable person in the neighbourhood who understands somewhat of Medicine, he may treat them, (under the guidance of the phy- sician,) even though their complaint be rather a severe one. The physician may only see the patient now and then, but he leaves at each visit, with the other, such directions as enables him to go on with the treatment in his absence; and thus many are speedily cured who, without this help, would have lingered long in sickness. Clergymen often employ themselves in this way amongst the poor, and render themselves doubly useful by so doing. Even men of high rank have been ready to lend their aid in such cases, nor has their dignity suffered by engaging in such a philanthropic occupation. In short, on many accounts, it must be useful for a portion of society in general to be taught some of the leading doctrines of Medicine.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. But this is all the length I can go. I allow such persons to lend their aid when better assistance cannot be found. I allow them to practise, in all cases, when no other practi- tioner is to be had. But I reprobate, in the strongest terms, their interference,m ani/ case, when a surgeon is in the way. I am sorry to say that some, when they once get a slight knowledge of the science, set themselves forward as very learned in it, and not only venture to dispute and cavil about opinions, but even undertake the treatment of difficult and dangerous disease. Such conduct is ex- tremely culpable. If it be difficult for even the well-informed to carry a patient safely through a serious illness, how, in the name of common sense, is an ignorant, a half-edu- cated man to acccomplish this ? Indeed, I cannot conceive how any man could be so presumptuous as to give even an opinion in presence of one who has devoted, perhaps, his whole life to the study of Medicine ; and I have still more difficulty in supposing how he could offer to undertake the management of people in sickness, when he must be fully aware that his knowledge of disease is ex- tremely circumscribed. However, it is true that such is the case. And this is the plea174 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. under which the amateur-surgeon in general tries to screen himself: he says, I prescribe only in trivial or simple cases ; I do not med- dle with a case when I find it a very bad one ; and I call in extra aid if my patient gets worse, and so on. But this will not do. How is he to know whether a case is trivial or not ? and by the time he is thinking on calling in extra aid, his patient may be out of the reach of all aid. Some of our most fatal diseases put on very trivial symptoms at first, although afterwards they burst out with terri- ble violence; and it is only by detecting them early, and bringing the most active measures to bear upon them, that we can hope to be successful in combating them.—Wliile the amateur-surgeon is quietly treating his simple disease, as he calls it, he is probably letting a malady gain ground, and go on to an incura- ble state, which, in the hands of an abler per- son, might perhaps have speedily been cured. Or perhaps all at once, when he, good easy man, dreads no evil, he finds his patient at- tacked with mortal symptoms, which no hu- man means can overcome, and then, indeed, he begins to find out how carelessly he has been playing at a dangerous game. Let it be remembered, that it is just about as culpa-ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 175 ble to remain inactive, and let a patient die for want of proper treatment, as if we gave him a deleterious dose to despatch him at once. The one case, indeed, is not much better than the other. No man, whatever his knowledge may be of Medicine, if he be not a qualified practitioner, should presume to prescribe for disease except when he is obliged by necessity. When no better ad- vice is to be found, then let him give his, because it may suffice for the time; it may be better than none at all. But when better skill arrives, then he is to retire. For the amateur-surgeon the theory is enough; the seldomer he brings his theory to practice the better. Why is it that all sensible men are so much in dread of quacks ? It is because they know that quacks are in general ignorant, and that though they profess to cure disease, in all its shapes, they know scarcely any thing about disease at all. The medicines of a quack are not in general positively delete- rious. They take care not to make them so, for this would soon spoil their trade. They are only passively so ; that is, they give me- dicine which probably neither does harm nor good; but while the patient is taking this176 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. medicine, his disease is gaining ground; he is neglecting other remedies which might be of use to him ; and thus the quack, though he does not actually kill with his medicines, is nevertheless accessory to the death of the patient. Now, the half-educated physician, who takes upon himself the treatment of serious diseases, and lets his patient perish for the want of putting active measures in force, is about as culpable as the quack. The only difference is, that the one is working for gain, while the other is led aside by igno- rance and conceit; but the consequences.are the same—namely, the sacrifice of patients. I do not indeed know a more injurious fal- lacy than that which prevails in society, of giving remedies because they are safe ; because they will do no harm, if they do no good. I trust the day is very near at hand when this most erroneous notion will be completely rooted out from the minds of the people, for it has been the cause of suffering and death to many. What! are we not to use all the means in our power f—are we not to seek for every thing that is likely to alleviate or arrest the progress of disease ?—ought our con- science to be at peace when we allow time to be passed away with trifling prescriptionsON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 177 when a dangerous disease is before us? These are questions deserving the attention of all. It is all very well, if I am so situated that I cannot procure exactly the remedies for my ailment that I wish, to take those I can get. When I am sick, I will of course be anxious to find relief in some way or other, and I will employ a half-educated physician rather than want altogether, if I am in a place where no regular bred one is to be had, just in the same way that I would employ a quack, if only quacks were around me. But people might well call me mad, if I had recourse either to the remedies or advice of quack or amateur, if a better man was to be founds —And I would punish the amateur-sur- i geon who would presume to practise unqua- lified, as I would punish the quack who i cheats us out of our money, and buoys us up with promises which he can never per- form. I again say, that I am no enemy to teaching a portion of society the general features of the healing art. On the contrary, I am friendly to it, for the reasons assigned. But I argue against the abuse of the thing, and I am anxious to do away with a serious evil, which, serious as it is, society does not yet 1 MON MKDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 178 seem to be well aware of. I like to see man cultivating his mind, and gathering know- ledge from every quarter. I like to see even the poorest and most menial in life increasing in wisdom. But when we see knowledge tending to evil, in whatever way, we are jus- tified in sounding the alarm. He is culpable who does not speak out when there is cause for speaking. And I have no hesitation in saying, that those popular books on Medicine, and those institutions at which medical science is taught to all, are curses instead of blessings to mankind, when the pupils set themselves up as perfect scholars, and sup- pose themselves capable of undertaking the management of disease. Before concluding, I have again to allude shortly to quackery. I am far>^from deny- ing that some of our quack medicines are possessed of considerable efficacy. I have seen some of them of use; I have prescribed them ; and I know that they are occasionally prescribed by men who know well about disease. But I object to them on two grounds—^first, because they would pass them upon us as certain remedies—and, secondly, as remedies suited for all stages of a disease. Now, we all know that no remedy is certain.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 179 We give our medicines with good hope, but we never make quite sure of success, even with the best of them, and under the most pro- mising circumstances. And as to a medicine which will suit for all stages of a disease, I have yet to learn what that medicine is. In fact, we have in general to change the remedy with every step of the disease; we have either to intermit, diminish, or augment whatever we are prescribing, just as the type of the disease changes, and, therefore, how the quack's medicine is to suit at all times, is beyond my comprehension. Indeed, it is preposterous even to imagine such a thing; and there can be no doubt that the man who takes upon himself to hold up any remedy as an universal specific, is either a knave or a fool; he either wishes to impose upon us, or he is imposed on himself; and in either case he is, in all probability, grossly ignorant of the principles of disease. I am satisfied that quack medicines may some- times be of use, but I am as well satisfied that they ought never to be given except when ordered by a physician. When a man promises to do a very great deal, we often firid that he does nothing at all. We are always suspicious of him who is above every body1.80 ON MEDICAL EIJUCATION, &C. else with his offers and promises. And so we may be suspicious of the quacks. The less we have to do with quacks and quack- ery the better.LETTER XL ON THE IMPROPRIETY OF INTERFERING WITH THE PRACTICE OF MEDICAL MEN, &c. Lisbon^ October, 1826. Christian.—^\iaX sayest thou, friend—shall we interfere ? Caleb.—For my part, I shall not. It seems to be a dangerous business, and I meddle not with it." Caleb Jefferson. We would suppose that people, when they call in a medical man, would resign com- pletely the treatment of the patient to him, and that whatever opinions they might hold regarding his practice, they would have no- thing to say while he was in attendance. The very act of calling him in implies that they conceive his advice to be necessary ; it implies that they conceive his skill to be at any rate better than their own ; and of course we would not expect that they would ever think of interfering after having given him the charge. We cannot suppose that they would employ a medical man upon whose skill they could not rely. We must take it for granted, that they have at any rate182 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. some confidence in him, or why should they employ him at all. And so, having sought his advice, we would expect them to adhere to it; we would expect that, for the time at least, they would be done with all opinions of their own, and be directed solely by him. But it is astonishing the number in society who, after having called in a medical at- tendant, continue to exercise their own opinions, and even to interfere with the various nieans which he may think it neces- sary to propose. They are continually on the alert to know what the physician is going to do; they must know why this is done, and why that is done; they must be told the jliames of the medicines prescribed, and the doses in which they are administered, and so forth; in fact they are quite suspicious of their physician, and watch him carefully in all his measures, cavilling at least with parts of his practice, if indeed they do not inter- rupt him in some things altogether Now, >ve know that the origin of this in friends is genierally an over-anxiety about the patient; and I have in another place* endeavoured to excuse them for it, and have condemned Vide Letter IX.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. every thing like harshness on the part of the practitioner on account of it. But it pro- ceeds sometimes, too, from vanity or igno- rance—from people believing that they know more than they really do know—and here I have to reprehend it just as much as in the for- mer case I excused it. For instance, an old woman, or even a young one, who has seen a good deal of sickness in her time, conceives that she has got some as good notions in her head as the doctor, and she thinks she is privileged to give her advice, and even to countermand, in his absence, what he may have ordered to be done. Or perhaps a mother, for the good of herself and her family, has been in the habit of consulting the Domestic Medicine, or some such book, and conceiving that the practice of her medi- cal attendant should always square with the practice therein laid down, she takes the alarm when she finds him deviating, and thinks it high time to speak out and prevent any thing like mischief These are things which occur every day to the surgeon, and which annoy and thwart him very much in his professional life. Nor is it only amongst the worst informed of his patients that such opinions prevail; even those who are quite184 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. intelligent upon other things are astray upon this point, so that he meets with opposition continually; and it is only by the constant exercise of patient and firm argument that he can get rid of the prejudices which sur- round him, and get on in his practice success- fully. Now, people are not aware of the evil which they are causing by such conduct. They do not know that in thus foolishly try- ing to prevent evil, they are actually pro- ducing it. But it is true that many of the calamities which occur in sickness are attri- butable to this cause, and to this cause alone. When a surgeon finds himself questioned and thwarted in whatever he proposes, he really becomes afraid to speak of new mea- sures ; and unless the disease be positively of a dangerous character, he tries whether he cannot get on without them. When he knows that he will only gain his end after many objections, if indeed he gains it at all, he puts ofi" every severe measure at least to the last, and tries all other remedies before he will have recourse to the one which is to be disrelished, even though this is the one upon which he has most reliance. In the mean time the disease is making progress;ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 185 the remedies put in use do not perhaps even keep it at bay; and when at last it becomes evident to all that something bolder must be done, it is found to be too late; even the severe measure now will not save the patient. This will not happen to a bold and deter- mined surgeon, for he does his work in spite of all obstacles. He never allows himself to be drawn from the direct path of duty by any opinions which friends or attendants may choose to give. Whim and caprice never sway him; he acts boldly, and he speaks boldly, although at the same time kindly, whenever he thinks it necessary ; and it is well for meddling friends when they fall in with such a surgeon. But others are not so able to combat prejudices, and they will ! rather give way before the tide of opposition, i than muster up strength enough to stand I against it. This is especially the case with the young surgeon just entering into prac- tice, who, in his eagerness to conciliate all, opposes nobody, and letting both patient and friends do just as they please, becomes a mere attendant—a mere looker-on at the disease. And so, between the foolishness of friends, and the over-pliancy of the physician, the patient falls a sacrifice. The arm which186 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. might have saved him is held back, and the disease which, in the beginning was but a trifle, becomes in the end a mortal ailment. No doubt it is affection which is doing all this. It is the kindness and over-anxiety of friends which is the cause of the mischief. But if such are to be the fruits of affection, it would be better if it were banished altogether from amongst us. If such are to be the con- sequences to the sick, when friends become over-kind and over-anxious, then, instead of having friends around them, it would be better if the sick were left altogether deserted, and there was no one to care whether they lived or died. Then, let those who are really anxious about the health of a sick friend studiously avoid all interference with the medical at- tendant. When friends determine on seek- ing medical advice, let them also determine on giving up every opinion of their own; at least, let none of their opinions stand in the way of the surgeon. If they think that the surgeon they employ is not skilful enough, then they can dismiss him, and get another in his place ; or, if they please, treat the pa- tient themselves. But if they do keep him, is it not unfair to shackle him in what he hasON MEDICAL EDU-CATION, &C. 187 to do ?—is it not unfair to make him respon- sible for acts which are not altogether his own ? What, indeed, is the use of him at all, if he is not to be paramount, and if his advice is not implicitly to be taken ? It lies with them to seek for the most skilful medical man; but if they cannot obtain this man, and if they do employ another, though he may have con- siderably less ability, yet they are bound to be equally obedient to him in all he proposes, for the very act of calling him in implies that they need him, and it will be surprising indeed if his skill, little as it may be, is not infinitely greater than theirs. These observations are applicable chiefly to the conduct of friends. I have now to sav a word or two to the patients themselves.: When they also object to the treatment pur- sued, and are only brought into it by great persuasion, the consequences of course are just the same as when friends interfere. Nearly the same restraint is put upon the surgeon in the one case as in the other. His hands are in a manner tied up ; he is afraid to advise whatever he thinks is likely to be refused ; and so he leaves to the last what oijght to have been done in the beginning, and he either fails in a cure altogether, or only188 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. accomplishes it after much delay. We ex- cuse patients for thus interfering, on the same grounds that we excuse friends—name- ly, their feverished and anxious state. They are fearful of the issue of the disease, and their minds being weakened with their bodies, they take up foolish notions over which their better judgment has at that time but little controul. The mind cannot always act aright when the body is in suffering; and, as we for- merly observed, we ought to keep this con- tinually in remembrance when dealing with people in disease. But I have seen patients, from whom I would have expected better things, behave in a very inconsistent manner when labouring under sickness. For example, I have seen them who, although come to full maturity, have refused to take medicine, merely because it was nauseous. Although perfectly satisfied that the medicine was re- quired, that it would probably give them immediate relief, yet, merely on account of its taste, they would put off taking it for a long while, and perhaps let it alone alto- gether. Now how puerile is such conduct, and how unfortunate is it for all parties. How teazing is it for the physician, and how injurious is it to the patient. If they are toON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 189 refuse the medicine, why send for a physician at all, for the physician can do but little without his medicine. There is nothing so beautiful as a being in sickness doing impli- citly what he is told, taking what is given him, and submitting himself to the will of Heaven, and to the guidance of those around him. It is both pleasing and instructive to be in attendance on such a patient. Both physician and friends have joy in this patient, and the chance of recovery to such a person is ten times greater than to him who is pee- vish, and fretful, and obstinate in his doings. I have endeavoured to show, then, that it is bad in the public to meddle with medical men in their attendance upon the sick, but I have yet to allude to another point of the same kind, deserving of as much reprehension. Individuals are not only presumptuous enough to form opinions on the practice and abilities of medical men, but they venture to spread their opinions, and to assert with confidence, what is in all probability only the creation of their own erring imaginations. They are not content with thwarting the surgeon in his practice, and giving him a world of trouble more than he should have, but when they have formed an estimate of his cha-190 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. racter, they unhesitatingly publish it to the world, although they are altogether incapable of judging of his character, and although that estimate is likely to be exceedingly injurious to him. If they conceive that any error has been committed, if the medical man has done something in opposition to their way of thinking, they are loud in their reproaches against him, and as often as an opportunity offers, they bring up his name to disadvan- tage. Even although he may have done exactly what was right, although perhaps he in truth conferred a benefit on them by acting in opposition to their wishes ; yet, as they think he did wrong, they think they are warranted in exposing him, and in making free with his name. They tell amongst their friends what they think of such a practitioner ; these friends again spread the account in other circles; it goes from one to another, gradu- ally gathering colour as it goes, until at last the reputation of even an able and deserving man becomes a wreck upon the quick-sand of public opinion. It is not easy to stop the tide of censure (even of undeserved censure) when once it begins to flow ; and the public is naturally very sensible upon such a point as medical capability. So, when a whisperON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 191 is heard against the reputation of a surgeon, although that whisper maj have been raised upon no good foundation whatever, still the alarm is abroad, and no one will employ him who can help it. They will not take the trouble to enquire whether the whisper be true, but they will take it for granted, and, rather than run any risk they will seek for other advice, if it is to be had. And thus it is that slander prevails, and that the innocent are often brought to suffer. It is thus that men who would have risen to the very sum- mit of their profession, and who would have benefited society in a proportionate degree, have been obliged to retire into obscurity, and drag out a life of indigence. It is not easy to get back a name when once it has been lost; and too often the individual who loses it, loses along with it much of his ener- gy of character, so that he will not muster up resolution to wrestle again with fortune, but desponds, and falls, without a struggle, beneath the malicious arm which has been raised to work his downfall. It is a ticklish thing to meddle with repu- tation at any time, but it is most of all unjust to meddle with medical reputation, for medi- cal knowledge and medical capability can192 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. only be judged of by those who are conver- sant with the science. I would not even take the opinion of a professor of medicine regarding the practice of another, unless I knew him to be a very intelligent and upright man indeed; for I know that it is difficult, even for a medical man, to judge at all times of the propriety of another's practice ; and I know that prejudice and self-interest will sometimes warp the judgment unawares. And if I hesitate about taking the judgment, even of a physician who is conversant with the art, of course it could hardly be expected that I would listen at all to the opinions of a person who is altogether ignorant of it. In- deed, how people can behave so inconsistently, as to set themselves up as judges upon what they do not understand—^how they can offer to pronounce upon a man's character in a science which must be to them complete darkness, I am at a loss to conceive. They must either have lost all their good sense, or here they do not think fit to exercise it; for it must be plain, even to a child, that what they are meddling with is quite beyond their comprehension. But we must look still farther into the evil; there is yet another branch of it. Those peo-ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 193 pie who are so ready to publish stories to the discredit of a medical practitioner, be- cause in their presumption they suppose him to have erred, are just as ready to speak in high terms of some ignorant prac- titioner, if by some lucky chance he gets into their good graces, and thus they not only blight the prospects of the good, and deprive society of their services, but they actually bring forward the bad to fill up their places. The evil is indeed doubled. By thrusting a person into a place which he is unable to fill, he must, as a matter of course, be continually blundering, and they who come under his charge must feel the dire effects of his ignorance. If it be true, as many think, that a bad physician is worse than no physician at all, it would be better for us if we trusted ourselves in sickness to nature, rather than give ourselves into the hands of one who is ignorant of our disease. It is bad enough to take away the character of a good man, but it is adding to the evil to give the good man's reputation to a bad one ; so,, it is bad in the public, in their whim or caprice, to cry down an able surgeon, and still worse to raise up in his stead an indif- ferent one. For their own sakes, people N ION MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 194 should be cautious in meddling with such matters, for the consequences of their folly evidently come back upon them. Self-in- terest should tell them never to set them- selves up as settlers of such things as these; and if they reflected at all on the injustice of the thing, they would refrain also on that ac- count. It is painful to the just man even to attack the character that is deserving of reprehension. He hesitates before he does it, and he makes sure of the charge before he will offer to prefer it. He thinks before- hand whether he is a fit judge, and if he sup- poses that he is not, he refuses to give judgment. So should the public deal with the medical profession. If the public is deemed able to determine on medical men's abilities, then let it examine, and pass sen- tence ; but if it be evident that the public is altogether unqualified for the task, of course its voice ought never to be heard. What I have said in a former part of this letter relating to the interference of old women, on the ground that they have be- come acquainted with disease, from having seen a good deal of it in their time, will, I hope, give no offence to that class of persons. I should be sorry to quarrel with them, for I^ / ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 195 know how invaluable they often are, and as even their erroneous acts come from good motives, we at least owe them our gratitude. I can bear testimony to their great attention at a sick bed; I have witnessed the help which they afford when sickness prevails; and I have to acknowledge the assistance which they have given to myself in attend- ance upon the sick. Nevertheless, I have thought it right to condemn all interference upon their part. As assistants to the physi- cian, I give them their due; so long as they are obedient to him, I commend them ; but when they attempt to become equal or para- mount, then I am ddne with them. Neither is it to be thought that I mean to discounte- nance altogether in mothers of famihes, the practice of consulting popular books on the ailm ents of their children. These books may sometimes be consulted with advantage: but I object to the doctrines of these books, or the learning of the readers, coming at all in the way of the surgeon. A woman who can make a good use of her popular instructions may occasionally manage the simple ailments of her family herself But the danger is, that she will become too vain of her know- ledge; that she will neglect calling in medicalON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 196 advice early enough ; and that she will be for taking her own methods, even after she has sought other advice ; and, therefore, perhaps, the seldomer she reads popular works the better.JLETTER XII. ON THE EXHUMATION AND DISSECTION OF THE DEAD. Lisbon, November, 1826. " The cause we are supporting is not our cause, but yours. You must employ medical men, whether they Ije ignorant or informed; and if you have none but ignorant medical men, it is you who will suffer from it. And the fact is, that the want of subjects will very soon lead to your becoming the unhappy victims of operations founded and performed in ignorance." Sir Astley Cooper, It is well known to society, that in order to teach men the science of Medicine, a supply of human bodies is required. Ana- tomy is the basis of all medical knowledge; it is the ground-work of all that we know, either in Medicine or Surgery; and, there- fore to teach it perfectly, is of the utmost importance, which cannot be done without examination and demonstration upon the human subject. It has been attempted to teach it (on account of the scarcity of bodies) by mere description—by the help of places and casts—and still more by the dissection198 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. of the inferior animals. But it is acknow- ledged on all hands, that this is a very inferior way of teaching it. He will be a sorry phy- sician, indeed, who has not actually had the body before him. He will be a very inferior surgeon who has not taken the knife in his own hand, and dissected with care even the minutest parts of the subject. In a word, it is only him who has laboured long and assi- duously at human dissection that will either be the dextrous surgeon or the knowing physician, for there is no other way of acquir- ing a perfect knowledge of Anatomy. But the law does not allow the anatomist to pro- cure bodies. It gives him the bodies of malefactors, (of murderers,) but it grants him no others. On the contrary, it protects the corpse of even the poorest of the species, and visits the crime of robbing the grave of its dead with severe punishment. Now, medical men, feeling the difficulty of getting the requisite supply of bodies, and conceiving this law of restriction to be a very severe one, have come forward and appealed to the public, that as what they do is for the benefit of all, the public should protect them. They say what is very true, that if dissection is checked, medical science must suffer, andON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 199 the public thereby sustain an injury. They think there should be no hesitation about the thing, as the advantages derived from it are so apparent, but that the public should at once listen to their appeal, and grant them liberty to do with the dead as they please. Now, this is expecting a very inconsistent thing, and they who ask it have not reflected much upon the matter. It is true thereis hardly a sensible person in society who will not admit that it is for the good of all to pro- secute Anatomy, and that without Anatomy we would have bad surgeons; but these per- sons have feelings of affection, and they cannot bear to think that any friend of theirs should be given over to the anatomist. They admit at once the public good, and the need there is for dissection ; but they are shocked at the very idea of any of their own kindred being so disposed of In fact, rather than submit to have their feelings so lacerated, they would see medical science banished for ever from amongst us, and be content to bear with patience even the most terrible onsets of disease.' There is not, indeed, a tenderer cord in the human bosom to be touched upon than this. We cling to the corpse of a rela- tion with the same eagerness that we did to200 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. the living and moving body, and we are equally anxious to keep all injury away from it. We are, perhaps, even more anxious about it now than when it lived, because now it cannot protect itself, and the trust lies with us. Even the ground in which it is buried becomes a hallowed spot; nor does the lapse of years weaken our affection for the cold clay, but we venerate on, perhaps with increased feeling, till the hour when we our- selves become the prey of death, and lie down also in the grave. Veneration for the dead is, indeed, one of the strongest and most amiable feelings of the heart. And, there- fore, medical men are mistaken when they think their appeal, even though founded on truth, is to meet with the approbation of the public. They are asking what nature strictly denies, when they ask the sanction of man- kind to mutilate the dead; and they are wrong if they think that the law should be abrogated which punishes the man who is found violating the sepulchre. What would be the consequence if there were no law against stealing the dead ? Wliat would happen if punishment, and severe punishment too, was not allotted to the of- fence ? Why, the anatomist would then doON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 201 as he pleased, and private feeling would be continually outraged, and the dead would be at no time secure. The law which exists is no more than a salutary check which is held over us. It is a law just as necessary for our protection as any other that exists ; and I trust, that for the well-being of society, it will remain for ever in force. I say, then, that it is needless in the anato- mist to come forward with an appeal to the public, and seek its sanction in this matter, because nature forbids the sanction. And I say, that it is unjust in him to complain of the law which is in force against him, because it is a law for the good of all—for his own good as well as for the good of others—if he has relations to sicken and die. And yet I am no enemy to dissection. My pro- fession forbids me to be so ; and they who have followed me through these Letters will see that, on the contrary, I am a strenuous advocate for it.* But I am anxious to pre- vent injury to the fine feeling of the com- munity, and at the same time to give a fair statement of the case to medical men, because I conceive that many of them require to be put * Vide Letter IV. in particular.202 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. to rights on the subject. I am anxious to state what we owe to the feelings of society, while at the same time I enforce what ought to be done for the advancement of science. And, therefore, while I uphold dissection of the human subject to be indispensable to the medical student—a thing which he must have—I tell him, that he is not to look for it as a right, and that it ought not to be procured at the expence of injury to the living. How, then, are subjects to be procured ? They are to be procured amongst the poorest of the people—amongst those who have nofrien ds— those who have none to mourn them when they are gone. It is only in large towns that Anatomy is taught, and in these there are always a certain number of unfortunate beings whohave neither kindred nor acquaintance to care for them— people who have grown old in poverty, and who have outlived the ties of relationship— and amongst these, I am perfectly satisfied, a sufficient supply of bodies for the use of the anatomist might be procured. This has al- ways appeared to me to be the only right way of arranging the matter. In our Hospi- tals, our Work^iouses, and other Charities, there are some dying every day who might well be appropriated to this purpose. AON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 203 large town would almost afford supply enough for its own anatomical school; but if any scarcity ensued, the supply could easily be made up from other places. And thus the public might rest in security, for the ana- tomist being elsewhere supplied, never would seek to rob the grave. It is only because he is at present nearly altogether without bodies, that dangerous as it may be, he either ven- tures to the church-yard himself, or employs some of those wretched beings who make it their trade, to seek the bodies for him. In his zeal for science, in his thirst after know- ledge, he will make the attempt to procure subjects at all hazards. And as the punish- ment is the same in case of discovery, whe- ther he steals the corpse of a poor or of a rich man, he of course stands upon little ce- remony. He must have subjects, if it be posssible to get them at all, and rich and poor are alike to him, for the fabric of clay is alike in both. But if the plan which I have proposed were adopted no danger would happen to either party. Then the anatomist, being satisfied, would have nothing more to ask for,—he would not seek to risk both his life and his character in a traffic so revoltins:. And, knowing this, friends would then bury204 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. their dead without fear ; and thus the science of Medicine, instead of languishing in decay, would continue to gather in vigour. Of course it will not be imputed to me, that I am anxious to introduce a system which will be at all injurious to the poor. I re- gard the rights and feelings of the poor man as much as I regard the feelings of the rich; and it is far from my intention to propose any plan which would be in the least opres- sive, even to the humblest of the species.— The body of the poor man who has friends to mourn him, I would protect with as much rigour as I would protect the body of the richest in the land. But, in fact, the plan which I am proposing has no reference to the circumstances of persons at all. I have merely said, that we are to look for our bodies from amongst the poor, because it is generally amongst these that we find the friendless and forlorn. When the rich and exalted die they have always protectors, while those in a humbler sphere are sometimes left desolate, so that it is only amongst the latter class that we can expect to find subjects. Neither must it be supposed that I am anxious to see our Hospitals and Charities on the same footing as they exist in France, and in someON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 205 others of the continental countries, where the bodies of the patients are aUogether at the disposal of the surgeon. This would not suit English feeling. Many, I am satisfied, would rather submit to disease in its most dread- ful form, and die, than become the inmates of an hospital, if they imagined there was the least chance of their remains being given to the anatomist, so great is their horror towards such a proceeding. And, as this is a principle firmly rooted in them, it would not be politic to fight against it. I would there- fore protect the remains of the poor in our hospitals in the same way that I would pro- tect them in the private dwelling. But I would take the bodies of all who entered the hospital without friends ; I would dissect all who died there unclaimed ; which is what no sensible person could object to, knowing that it could do hurt to no one, and that it would be so much for the benefit of society at large.* * Of late, the subject here treated of has occupied the attention of the Legislature. A great body of evidence, relating to the method of procuring subjects, the scarcity of the supply, &c. has been taken be- fore a Committee of the House of Commons, and the result is, that in a short time we are hkely to have the matter arranged, so that both the feelings of the community, and the advancement of science, will be attended to. What I have ventured to propose above seems to be a part of the plan of the Committee—namely, to give to dissection the unclaimed inmates of our Work-houses, &c. Sir Astley Cooper has proposed, that a Director of Anatomy should be appointed to dis- tribute the subjects to the different Schools, and regulate the whole matter. This is a proposal wortliy of being attended to.ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. 206 But there is, in truth, a spirit of illiberality in the public acting against the anatomist, which only the lapse of time, and the general improvement of life, is likely to do away with. Although society is well aware of the good which the anatomist has done ; althoufirh it knows that through him all its ailments are understood ; and that without him the power of disease would be terrible'; although it knows, that to his labour and diligence we are chieflly indebted for the present improved state of the healing art, and that with the de- cay of Anatomy there must be a general decay of Medicine; yet, for all this, there is a feel- ing against him, and as often as there is an opportunity of harassing him, and crying him down, he is sure to become the victim. There is no mercy shewn him when he ren- ders himself amenable to law. Even the sensi- ble part of the community—even those who have found the good of his labours—are rea- dy with their maledictions the moment the cry is raised against him, and become leagued with his enemies to prosecute him to the ut- termost. This is illiberal—extremely illiber- al in a right-thinking society. But we have endeavoured to shew, that it is from the in- nate horror which humanity has to the work207 ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. of the anatomist that the antipathy is against him ; and we must just endeavour to bear with it as we can, in the hope that time and better reflection may do in part away with it. And when the anatomist is aware of the feeling which is against him, it ought to be his study to carry on the work of dissection with as much secrecy as possible. When it is known that the public is apt to be shocked at anato- mical details, we should take care to let it hear as little of them as possible ; and we should seldom admit strangers into our dissecting rooms. Even though it is shocking, people are generally fond to be admitted to see these things, but I have seldom seen them gra^ tified ; and the seldomer they go there the better. It is no sight for idle curiosity. It should only be looked at by the man who can profit by it, and this is only the anatomist. And when the anatomist attends to all these things ; when he does his work in secret, and gives offence to none; when he respects the opi- nions and prejudices of men, and outrages no feeling; he is deserving of our approbation and respect, and we are bound to support him in his cause. Instead of getting the execra- tion of the public, he should get its gratitude and praise, for he is labouring for the publicON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &C. good, and his labour is accompanied with no little danger and toil. There are still a few in society who will not give their consent to have the body of a relative inspected, although that relative should have died of some very interesting and ill-understood disease. This arises from that same feeling which we have already alluded to, namely, affection for the dead ; they can- not bear to think that even the corpse of one that was dear to them should suffer the least mutilation. But it is an unfortunate preju- dice : It is depriving the living of the good which they might Jiave from the dead, and for the mere sake of feeling in one individual, it is entailing perhaps calamity and misery upon many. It is only by minute research after death that we can arrive at the true cause of many hidden diseases ; and as we seldom can be correct in our treatment until we do know the cause, it must be evident, even to the most uninformed, how necessary it is to inspect all bodies when the ailment has not been understood. People, for their own sakes, although they had no regard for the good of society at large, should be anxious to afford every opportunity of this kind to the surgeon. And as, by permitting inspection quietly in