440 UEPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY A»D MATERIA MEDICA. was attained at the liospital at Freistadt, iu which thirty-two leeches were employed 13.5 times. NEW EEMEDIES. Prof. Bentlcy continues his descriptions of new remedies in the pages of the ' Pharmaceutical Journal.' The first mentioned is tlie Sarraccnia purpurea, tlio drug which has been so highly vaunted for the cure of variola. The root and leaves are the parts employed in medicine. It is at present doubtful whether one of them is to be preferred to the other. The dose of the powdered leaves or root appears to be 5j—is.?. An infusion, decoction, or tincture of it may be employed. Mr. Marson (' Lancet,' 1863, ii, p. 6) says that he has used this remedy in fifteen cases of severe smallpox, all of which terminated fataUy. The drug did not appear to have any effect whatever. Dicentra {Gort/dalis) formosa.—The tuber of this plant is the part which is used medicinally. It contains corydalina, fumaric acid, and other ingredients. It is said to possess anti-syphilitic, resolvent, tonic, diuretic, alterative, antiscorbutic, and other properties. The resinous extract (corydalin), of which the dose is gr. ss—iij, the tincture and the decoction are the preparations ordinarily employed. Slanihoxylon fmxineum is a stimulant and alterative tonic, resembling mezereum in its properties, and useful especially in chronic rheumatism. The bark is the part used in medicine ; its dose, in powder, is gr. x— XXX, three or four times a day. Besides the oleo-resinous extract (xanthoxylin), formulse are given for an infusion, a decoction, and a tincture. Another bark, the exact source of which is unknown, is frequently mixed with it, or substituted for it. Pfelea trifoliata, the root-bark of which is employed medicinally, is said to be a stimulant tonic, and is tised in remittent and intermittent fevers. Oeranium maculatum.—Of this plant the rhizome is the part used. It has no odour, but a very astringent taste, and it contains a con- siderable quantity of tannic and gallic acids, and appears to be a useful astringent. It is especially serviceable in the maladies of infants, and of persons of delicate stomach, from its taste not being unpleasant. It is also useful as a gargle in aftections of the throat. A substance called geraninis obtained from it, which also possesses astringent, styptic, and antiseptic properties. The dose of the rhizome is gr. xx—xl. A decoc- tion, an infusion, and a tincture are also employed. Cerasus Virginiana.—This plant, which is known also by the names of Prunus serotina and Cerasus serotina, appears to be extensively used in America as a tonic and sedative. The inner bark is the part employed, that of the root being considered the most active. It has a bitter, somewhat aromatic, and rather agreeable taste. When dried, it has scarcely any odour, though when fresh its smell recalls that of bitter almonds. A very poisonous volatile oil, containing prussic acid, has been obtained from it by distillation; and this is produced from amyg- dalin, as in the bitter almond. The bark also appears to contain a bitter principle, which was supposed at one time to be phlorydzin. The tincture, the syrup, and the cold infusion, are the preparations given by Prof. Bentley. The resinous extract, prunin, has the tonic pro-