UEPOllT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. 870 HJEMOKKIIAGE BErOBE, DUHING, OE AriEIl DELIYEIIY. Dr. Kamsbotham relates five cases of severe post-partum hacinor- rage (" Cliuical Midwifery;" 'Med, Times,' ii, 1863, pp. 245, 431). A largo fibroid tumour imbedded iu the posterior wall of the uterus, and preventing its perfect contraction, complicated one case, and in another, the only fatal case, the placenta was adherent to a large polypus attached to the fundus of the uterus. The author remarks that in most of tlie cases whicli he has seen of coexisting pregnancy and iutra- uteriue polypus, although hajmorrhage might have occurred before conception, this has been either entirely suspended or greatly lessened during utero-gestation. The case, however, now recorded was an ex- ception to this rule, since the haemorrbage increased after impregnation, probably from the placental attachment to the polypus. In relatingeight cases of adherent placenta (ibid.),the author states that Lis own practice is to remove the placenta at once if dangerous hsemor- rhage occur, and never to wait longer than an hour or an hour and a half if there be no flooding. If part of the placenta be left, the hand should be again introduced, and all removed, since the patient cannot be free from danger so long as any part of the placenta be retained in utero. In one case, here related, profuse hsemorrhage occurred from the placentae of twins at three months being retained six weeks after the miscarriage. In all the cases the mothers recovered. PLACENTA PBiEVIA, Dr. Murpby records a case of placenta praevia, with detacbment of the placenta before the birth of the child ('Dub. Quart. Jour.,' May, 1863, p. 472). The hcBniorrhage ceased at once. From ten to fifteen minutes were occupied iu the operation. Version Avas then performed, and thougb the cbild did not at first breathe, respiration was gradually established, and botb mother and child did well. Dr. W. H. Moor relates a case ('Med. Times aud Gaz.,' vol. i, 1863, p. 532) iu which he separated the placenta from the sides aud front of the os, and plugged this with the detached portions of the placenta aud the unruptured mem- branes. Hsemorrhage ceased at once. Brandy aud ergot were given, the labour terminated naturally, and the mother made a good recovery. The child, a seven months' one, was stillborn, but was restored by artificial respiration, and did well. About a third of the placenta was found to have been separated from its attachment to the uterus. Dr. G-. Clendinning records four cases ('Australian Med. Journal,' July, 1863). In the first three delivery was effected by version. Two'of the mothers and one of the children recovered. In the fourth case with the patient almost pulseless — after the removal of the detacbed placenta, which partly protruded through the full dilated os, delivery was effected by the long forceps, and the mother did well. The child had been dead some time. ,„/,,t c Dr. C. Pfeiffer, in a paper on " Crushing the Placenta ( Mou. t. Geburt' Sept., 1863), comments on the little value to be attached to