163 EESPIKATOUY SYSTEM. quantity administered varied in different subjects from 7 to 80 grains, the average amount was about 40 grains. No signs of poisoning were produced, nor any blue line ; neither was there constipation, but, instead, diarrhoea in half the cases. The effect on the pulse was to diminish the number of pulsations from 100 or 120 down to 70, 60, and even 50 or 40 on the fourth day after commencing treatment. In one-half the cases returning crepitant rhonchus was heard after the first day of treatment. In nine cases out of thirty the stethoscopic signs remained stationary for two or three days, when resolution commenced. In six cases out of thirty the symptoms increased in intensity after the treatment was com- menced, but this continued only one day in five cases and two days iu another. Convalescence was rapid. BoTJCHDT.—On Ohronic Congestionof the Lungs simulating Early Phthisis. Jour, de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., Sept., 1863, p. 392. Bouchut states that the diagnosis of the two states is often very diffi- cult, but that we possess a touchstone of discrimination in the effects of cold and warm sulphurous springs, aided by a residence in the country. These have the best results in mere pulmonary congestion, but are use- less in actual phthisis. The actual condition of the lung is one of partial collapse and hypersemia, in consequence of which it does not receive the usual amount of air, and passes into a sub-inflammatory induration. The disorder is an asthenic affection, often connected with struma or the herpetic diathesis, and ixquires to be combated by tonics and stimulants. Skoda.—On the Treatment of Pulmonary Inflammation. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., viii, 5, 6, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 34. Skoda believes that we can have no certainty as to whether pneumonia is commencing, and has no faith in the possibility of arresting it in a very early stage. Even when the disease has declared itself we have no sure guide in each individual case to a successful treatment. Observations, made several years ago, as to the results obtained when pneumonia was treated by different methods, showed that where venesection was employed the rate of mortality was most unfavorable, and the reverse where it was quite put aside. For six years subsequently Skoda has experimented in the treatment of pneumonia. He does not find now that abstinence from bloodletting gives a favorable rate of mortality. The general result of his experience is that the i-ate of mortality may accidentally take a very favorable form during a certain interval under each of the different modes of treatment, and again may assume a very unfavorable form, though no reason for the change can be discovered. Certainly the exist- ing epidemic tendency has nothing to do with it. From his numerical researches Skoda comes to the conclusion that treatment exerts no remark- able influence on the rate of mortality on a large scale. There is no specific for pneumonia, but the sufferings of the patients can be alleviated, and some troublesome and life-perilling symptoms can be removed. Vene- section is only advisable when peculiar symptoms are present, either such as by their severity threaten life or are capable of being lessened by it. Such are delirium, sopor, convulsions from arrest of the circulation in the cervical veins, impending asphyxia from copious sanguineous secretion in