PAUACENTESIS TIlOllACIS. (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitsclir.,' iii, 153)- ^- Bruns, the first extir- pation of a laryngeal polypus, &c. (2nd ed. p. 76. Tiibingen,H. Laupp). Mr Walker, removal of a polypoid growth of the larynx ('Lancet,' 1861, ii, 444). Prof. Czermak, on local treatment by means of the laryngo- scope ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 4^2), and on tumours in the larynx and nostrils (ib., 581). CHEST. IT. J. Bowditch, paracentesis thoracis (' Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences,' Jan. 1863, and ' Canada Lancet,' i, 33).—" Having performed paracen- tesis 150 times on '] <, persons, during the past twelve years, besides being witness of ten other cases, I now give a brief re'sume of my ex- perience. I have never seen the least permanent evil ensue from any of these operations, and but slight temporary difiiculty, as pain, dyspnoea, stricture, cough, &c. This, I think, sufficiently proves the innocuous- ness of the operation, by means of the exploring trocar and suction- pump, as suggested by Dr. Wyman, of Cambridge, Mass. "Frequency o/tJie operation.—I was once compelled to tap a patient, himself a physician, eight times in six weeks, to relieve his intense dis- tress in breathing ; and to operate on a lady nine times during eight and a half months, the first, being to save her from death from orthopnoea, was performed when she was over four months pregnant. I have also pvinctured one chest twice in the same day, in order to reach all the fluid which was divided by false membranes. " JVtmier of perfect recoveries.—Out of the whole seventy-five patients, twenty-nine recovered completely, and apparently in conse- (juence of the operation, which was generally performed after severe symptoms had manifested themselves, and when I was called in consul- tation. In all these cases the tapping seemed to be the first step towards recoveiy. "Thefluid—Of the seventy-five, the fluid obtained at the first operation was serum in twenty-six, of which twenty-one made good recoveries. If, afterwards, the fluid became purulent, "l have noticed an almost cei'tain fatality to attend the change ; of six such cases, four have died, and the other two, when last seen, were failing. Pus flowed at first in twenty-four cases ; seven of these recovered, and seven died. Belief is always obtained, but the tendency remains to a termination in fistulous openings or phthisis. A sanguinolent fluid at the first punc- ture, thin and of a dark-red colour, not coagulating, I consider almost certainly fatal, and a cousequence of some malignant disease of the lung or pleura. Of the seven of these cases, six died, and the other is stijl lingering. But when the fluid becomes of this colour only at the second or any subsequent puncture, I deem it of comparatively little importance towards the prognosis. A mixture of bloody purulent fluid at the first operation is usually fatal; of three occurring, all died. A fetid gangrenous fluid is very rare ; I have met with but one case, and although great and permanent relief was obtained from the orthopnoea, the patient sunlc in a few days, when the pleura was found gangrenous.