269 CATHETEllISM OF THE EUSTACHl-lN TUBE. a half, and if it remained in the tube, must probably have reached to the tympanic cavity. The bougie could not be seen in the pharynx, and presented no particular bending on its being removed. These demonstrations showed that— a. Very various sounds are heard by the listener when air is blown into the patient's tube. The difference consists essentially in varia- tions of the intensity, so that the sounds sometimes appear to arise near to, sometimes at a distance from, the ear. Such sounds are probably produced only at the pharyngeal aperture of the tube, and the in- tensity with which they are heard varies not only according to the streugth of the blowing, but also according to whether the tube conducts the sound well or whether it presents some obstacle to the transmission of the acoustic waves. Such impediments may occa- sionally (Case 3)—probably when they are situated near the guttural termination of the tube—be temporarily removed or overcome by stronger blowing. That the air, which is blown in, passes into the tympanic cavity, is not proved by any of these demonstrations. b. It is probable, but not proved, that the bougies were introduced into the tube. At the proposal of the committee. Dr. Kramer undertook the following experiments:—Two little glass tubes, of about two milli- metres in diameter and an inch and a half in length, were so made that their anterior end was dilated like a trumpet, their posterior end blown-out into a sphere; the latter was entirely closed in the tube a, but opened and covered with goldbeater's skin in the other, b. In this way, some approximation was made to the conditions of the tube and tympanic cavity. If a little lock of cotton was placed in the anterior aperture, and then air blown in by means of a catheter of moderate calibre, the lock was driven a little further, but then soon thrown out again by the stream of air. If, before blowing, the lock Avas introduced somewhat further into the narrower part of the tube, it could not be driven the least further, even by the strongest blowing; it remained exactly at the same spot. On attempting to inject water by means of an India-rubber ball, it was seen to pass a certain distance along both tubes, but not a drop could be driven directly into the spheres; finally, after repeatedly inclining the tubes, blowing, and injecting, a few drops ]-an along the walls into the spheres. Under certain conditions the injected water passed into the sphere of the tube b. The following seemed necessary i—i. That the tube should be two millimetres wide; 2. That the thickness of the stream of water should not exceed half a millimetre (catheter No. i). And 3. That the direction of the latter should be as exactly parallel as possible to the axis of the glass tube. Bcmomtrations on the subject.*—I. Dr. Kramer attempted to in- troduce the bougie into the tube. In many cases he met with such resistance that he could not push on the bougie. In two subjects out of five he succeeded. In one of them the tympanic cavity and tube were opened from above ; the point of the sound was in the tympanic cavity. * Dr. Kramer himself introduced the catheters and bougies in the following expe- riments oil the subject.