436 hepout on toxicology and materia uedica. detected. The nature of the flavouring ingredients also varied ; some contained rosemary, otliers nutmeg and cinnamon ; in no instance was the odour of cloves perceived. Cloves are, however, said to cause the liquid to assume a dark colour when it is kept for any length of time. ANIMAL poisons AND EEMEDIES. Dr. Pavy (' Lancet,' 1863, vol. i, p. 461) found that only one specimen of pepsine, among many procured by him from London druggists, pos- sessed any perceptible digestive property. Tlie substance sold as pepsine usually contains much starch. In the experiments on |this sub- stance, sixty grains of the pepsine were added to forty minims of strong hydrochloric acid and two ounces of water. Progs' legs were then placed in this fluid, and left at a uniform temperatiu-e of 110° Fahr. for four hours. The pepsine of Messrs. Bullock and Eeynoldsjalone produced energetic eff'ects, notwithstanding that only twenty grains of it were employed. This substance is, in fact, very easily rendered inert by slight decomposition, or by exposure to a temperature of !i4o° Fahr. The best method of preparing an artificial digestive fluid (useful for enemata in dysphagia and in other cases) is to strip oflE" the fresh mucous mem- brane of the stomach of the pig, or of other animals, and, after drying it, to cut it into strips, and then to infuse it in water of the proper temperature when it is required to be used. About five to twenty grains should be employed in this way, and some acid should be added. Mr. Tichborne ('Dublin Medical Press,' p. 54, 1863) suggests the following process for the detection of cantharidine in liquids. The suspected fluid is to be treated with chloroform, which dissolves out the cantharidine if it be present; the chloroform is then to be allowed to evaporate from a watch-glass, and the extractive left is to be mopped up with a little lint, moistened with' olive oil. This is then to be applied to the skin, and covered with goldbeater's skin. A large vesicle on the arm was obtained in this way by the application of the extractive procured from half a pint of wine, to which some tincture, containing three grains of cantharidea, had been added. Dr. Newbigging ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' October, 1863, p. 312) relates the symptoms of poisoning by the flesh of the American par- tridge, which were observed in two ladies, the cases occurring together in the year 1857. A short time after the dinner at which the partridge was eaten sensations of chilliness were complained of in each case. These were followed in one patient by vomiting, convulsions, and dim- ness of sight, amounting to almost complete blindness. The sight of the other lady was less afl"ected. She suff'ered chiefly from muscular weakness and coldness of the surface, with difliculty of swallowing. Sickness was not among her symptoms, occurring only after an emetic had been given. The mind was quite clear in each case. These eflects gradually passed off"; four hours after the commencement of the symptoms, all the more urgent ones had subsided; the pulse rose, the skin became warm, and vision was restored. At one time it w^as believed that one of the cases, at least, would terminate fatally. For some days_ unpleasant effects remained ; " a prickly feeling over the body, and involuntary startings and movements of the Augers," with great feebleness, were