NERVOUS SYSTEM. 99 cases of severe nervous disorders occurring in an individual accustomed to alcoholic excess. If the symptoms result from the abuse of alcohol, they are dissipated under the use of ammonia with remarkable rapidity; if they persist, their cause must be sought elsewhere. He gives the case of a male, £et. 45, who drank 2 to 3 litres (^^ to 5 pints) of wine daily, his health, however, remaining good. One day he found, on getting up, a stiffness in the left arm and leg, such that he could not dress himself. He had previously had pains in the right side of the head, with tremor of the limbs. Bleeding, sinapisms, frictions, had been of no benefit. On his admission into La Charite he could neither walk nor use his left hand, and his sensory power was also much impaired. In three days after the administration of ammonia (Liq. Ammoniee) he was remarkably improved ; be could walk, and use his arm. There only remained of his former con- dition a little tremor, which made him walk rather lame. TtiRCK, L.—On Neuralgia and Hypercesthesia of the Throat. Wien. Allg. Med. Zeit., vii, 9, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 31. Tiirck describes an affection of the lateral parts of the base of the tongue, the tonsils, and the sides of the pharynx. These parts appeared normal, but were the seat of pains which existed in both, but were always greatest on one side. Sometimes there was difficulty in swallowing, a sensation as of a tumour or a foreign body in the throat, or of dryness. Of 6 cases 2 were males of 37 and 60 years ; the others were females. In 2 of the latter tlie affection had replaced a neuralgia, an intercostal or hemicranial. In all the cases the pain was increased by continued talking or singing, or by swallowing too hot a substance. The only treatment mentioned consisted in resection of a piece of the gustatory nerve, and cauterization with solid Argenti Nitras. Pfaff.—Varges Ztschr., N. F. i, 4, 1862. Schmidt's Jabrb., vol. 117, p. 163. Records evidence as to the good effect of 01. Terebinth, in severe pro- sopalgia. He gives five drops ter die, internally, and applies it also ex- ternally to the painful part. Fin CO, G.—Cauterization of the Ear in Sciatica. Gaz. Lomb., 38, 39, 41, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. i6j. Finco relates several cases, and then gives an account of his whole ex- perience on this point. He has performed the operation in 48 cases : in 30 with complete, in 10 with incomplete, in 8 without any, success. In these last cases there were always grave complications—scurvy, inflam- mation, &c.—after the removal of which the sciatica in some instances dis- appeared spontaneously. In all the cases except in one the cauterization was preceded by energetic antiphlogistic treatment; in some the cure was completed by mercurial or belladonna ointment; and in seven, where the operation only effected an improvement, these external applications, com- bined with suitable internal remedies, speedily got rid of the disease. The operation was repeated only three times, and in all with complete success. Twice the sciatica, after one side had been cured by the opera- tion, reappeared after some time (three months or three years) on the other, and again yielded to the same proceeding.