IMiPORT ON I'iUCTlCAL MEDICINB. and check the coiiliiuinnce of tlie enfeebling ckmniy perspiration by means of a cold shower bath or dripping sheet. The latter means are of excel- lent service if reaction follows their employment, and maybe seconded very beneficially by the cold douche applied to the alfected joints. Mere affu- sion is not sudicient; the stream lias not sufficient force, and its action is not suflicieiiUy sustained. If the secretions are in good order, tonics may be given full play, and a generous diet allowed. Fuller has a very high opinion of the virtues of strychnine as a tonic when there is great depres- sion of the nervous system. The mineral acids he thinks also very valuable in this and in other diseases of an atonic character, but they should be given in larger doses than is usually the case, as from ir[vj to lll^x. Fur- ther, he is satisfied that in cases of rheumatic gout turbidity of the urine is not a bar to their administration. If, indeed, they produce deposits of lithates and dyspepsia, they must be omitted; but when the urine is habitually turbid, they often render it clear. BiiiKBECK Nevins, J., M.D.—On the treatment of Rheumatic Fever. Brit. Med. Jour., Aug. ist. He advocates quinine gr. viij + Pot. lod. 3j, daily, in four doses, from the first; and the steam bath, with subsequent cold sponging, and, as an adjunct, opium in small doses, when necessary, to produce sleep. Nevins has used this plan very largely for fifteen years, both in private practice and in public, and has not had one case of distinct cardiac affection. O'Bryen, 'Brit. Med. Jour.,' Aug. 22nd, finds the hot-air bath for the thin and aged, and the steam-, with or without the addition of sulphur, for the young and plump, followed by cold douching, equally efiectual without the quinine and Potas. lod. CuAMBEiis, T. K.—Statistics of the treatment of Rheumatic Fever. Brit. Med. Jour., Aug. 29th. Of 26 cases treated with 5j of Pot. Nitrat., ter die, the mean stay in hospital was forty days. Of 341 treated with bihoral doses of 3j of Pot. Bicarb., the mean stay was 34-3 days. Of 33 treated with a less quantity of the same, forty days. Of 11 treated without drugs, except a little opium occasionally, thirty days. Of the 26 treated with Pot. Nitras., 5 were attacked with heart disease while under treatment, and 4 died. Of 174 treated with Pot. Bicarb., 9 had inflammation of the heart, and none died. Of 63 either bedded in sheets or who had wilfully thrown ofif their blankets, 6 contracted newly pericarditis at least, if not endocarditis as well; 3 had a relapse of pericarditis on old cardiac disease; i had endocnrditis alone ; nearly 16 per cent, had inflammation of the heart, and 4 died. Of 180 in blankets, none contracted pericarditis, none died; 1 had a relapse of pericarditis on old cardiac disease ; 5 had endocarditis alone (one of them accidentally from a wetting during convalescence) ; I a relapse of endocarditis on old cardiac disease. Not 4 per cent, have had inflammation of the heart. When it came, it was of a milder cha- racter, and was generally to be accounted for by some imprudent expo- sure. ' That is to say, that bedding in blankets reduces from 16 to 4, or by a good three quarters, the risk run by patients in rheumatic fever.