REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, 96 Records twelve cases seen by him nt Ilaniburg. lie confirms Grie- singer'a statement as to the preference of the cysticerci for tlie corticiii part of the brain, but seems to liave met less frequently with epilepsy and mental disturbance, and more often with paralysis of one side. BRowN-SicauAKD.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., March i4tli. States that muscular ataxy, in his view, is only a peculiar symptom which may be associated with various diseases, and that the treatment must vary accordingly. When it is connected with lesion of the pos- terior columns, and with many other affections of the spinal cord, including epilepsy, where no inflammation exists, nitrate of silver, in doses of gr. will prove of the greatest use. If this medicine be given in these doses, and omitted occasionally for a week during the course of the treatment, it will cause no discoloration of the sldn. This result may be equally avoided by giving the oxide of silver in doses of from gr. f to gr. v three or four times a day. In the treatment of meningitis or neuralgia, he remarks that patients who cannot bear a double dose of belladonna, or any other narcotic, will tolerate very well a full dose of two taken together. Of the so-called essential paralysis of children, he observes that, if it really exist, it is exceedingly rare, and that a great majority of the so- called cases are really the result of a lesion of some part or parts of the cerebro-spinal axis. Post-mortem examinations have frequently afforded evidence of effusions of serum within the dura mater and ventricles of the brain, and, though more rarely, of inflammation of the substance either of the brain or cord. A case of facial paralysis showing the extensive reflex effects of cold water was also brought forward. The patient, aged 44, bad got very wet, and became affected the following night. He was unable to shut the right eye; and the tongue and lips being affected, he could not pronounce certain letters; for the same reason, drinking was difficult; there was slight motor paralysis of the right side of the tongue ; the sense of taste on the same side was lost; the eye was very sensitive to light; the sense of hearing on the right side was lessened; there was hypersestliesia on both sides of the face, but the sense of feeling in the tongue was normal, and there was no tinnitus aurium and no headache. The power of the nerves on the left side corre.'ponding to those affected on the right was also slightly impaired. Brown-Sequard regards the affection as not centric, but entirely peripheral, because there was no anajsthesia of the tongue, no loss of power of, and no abnormal sensation, in the limbs. With regard to syphilitic diseases of the nervous system, it was contended that if a patient has had primary disease, and the nervous system is affected in several distinct parts at the same time, the occurrence of secondary symptoms is no necessary link in the chain of evidence. WuNDERLicH, C. A.—Arch. d. Ileilk., p. 27, 1863. Records two additional cases of the efficacy of nitrate of silver in pro- gressive spinal paralysis. Radclii'PE, C. B.—Brit. Med. Journ., November 7th. Strongly recommends the employment of the hypophosphites in ten-