PH0SPir01lU3. the tissue of the lungs, in the organic muscular fibres of the intestines, in tlie muscle of the heart, and in the abdominal muscles. The question whether many cases of supposed yellow atrophy of the liver are not really caused by phosphorus is especially discussed in this paper. Karajan relates an instance which is a good illustration of the danger of overlooking this condition. A man, aged twentj^-five, came and said that he had swallowed the substance scraped from the matches con- tained in three packets. He was in a cafe at the time, and went on drinking beer and wine. He said that the first effect produced was vomitnig, which came on after six hours, and was repeated ten or twelve times. On his admission, twelve hours after taking tlie poison, all that he complained of was headache, anorexia, and thirst; dryness of the palate, with a metallic taste; and a slight burning sensation, not amounting to pain, and extending down the oesophagus into the stomach. The throat was somewhat red and the stomach rather tender; nothing else could be discovered to cause uneasiness; and, as the man was known to be a liar, the truth of his statement was considered extremely doubtful. One packet of matches, without heads, was found in his home. The stools and vomited fluids contained no phosphorus or phosphoric acid, but much pliosphate of magnesia. In the faeces the phosphate of ammonia and magnesia was also found. Magnesia had been given freely as an antidote. No lead was detected, though this metal usually is present in the matches. Serious symptoms, however, slowly manifested themselves. On the third day jaundice appeared, with tenderness of the hypochondrium and slight enlargement of the liver. On the seventh day this organ extended below the ribs by the breadth of a pleximeter, but on the evening of the same day it was found to have diminished in volume. There was also some blood in the fajces on the fourth day and later. On the sixth day the urine was thoroughly examined. Albumen was discovered in considerable quantity ; biliphjein and uro-erythrin were also present, and the phosphates were in excess. On the seventh day somnolence with incoherence of speech came on. The tongue was dry and black, the skin hot; at night he was obliged to be restrained, being delirious. The next morning he was unconscious, with a pulse of 132 in the minute ; respirations slow. Tonic cramps tlien came on in the legs, and the ankles were extended. Later there were spasms of the arms also and trismus, and he died in convulsions at 4 p.m., 190 hours after taking the poison. The usual appearances were found in this case. Extravasations of blood in the connective tissue of the neck and mediastinum; ecchy- mosia of the base of the heart. Liver small, withered; acini made lip of fat-globules of different sizes; few of the hepatic cells still visible. Spleen unaltered in size, of rather an elongated form ; some of its ele- ments converted into aggregates of fatty globules, and fiitty molecules found clinging to the trabeculaj. Alimentary canal containing a tarry- fluid in its upper part. Numerous ha>morrhagic erosions in the pyloric extremity ot the stomach. The cortical substance of the kidneys swollen ; uriiiiferous tubules filled wibh fat-granules. Accordin<y to Karajan, other substances, which have a chemical resemblance to phos-