kepout om midwifery, etc. 374 considered, aud simplified by a convenient apparatus, invented and de- scribed by the author. Dr. Hewitt thinks that pure blood should be used, and cites Dr. Browu-Sequard's statement, that the introduction of defibrinated blood has, in animals, induced sudden coagulation of the blood and death. The opposite opinion, however, is held by Bischoff, and in an interesting case recorded by Prof. Nussbaum (' Baier lut PI.,' No. ix, 1862, and 'Year-book,' 1862, p. 253) transfusion was suc- cessfully performed with defibrinated blood. Dr. Hewitt insists on the importance of previously arranging all the steps of the operation, aud gives minute directions for its performance, especially urging the avoidance of all delay, and the prevention, as far as possible, of exposure of the blood to the air. RTTPTTJEE OF THE TTTEEUS. Spontaneous rupture of the uterus only occurred 11 times in .59,859 cases of delivery at the large Maternity Hospital at Paris, or once in 5441 cases (Casper 'Porensic Med.,' vol. iii, p. 401). A case is recorded by Heer (' Preuss. Med. Zeit.,' 1862, No. 31). The patient, from her suffering in a long, protracted labour, requested to be taken into the Lying-in Hospital at Oppeln, for the purpose of being delivered. Here she arrived in great agony, after nearly two hours' drive in a bad carriage, by night. On admission she was pale, pulseless, Avith cold extremities, the body covered with a clammy sweat; the contour of the uterus could not be felt, while the parts of the child could be very dis- -tinctly recognised, and labour pains had ceased. She died directly after she had been put into bed, and before even any examination could be made. The forceps were at once applied, and a dead child extracted without difficulty ; profuse haemorrhage followed. Post-mortem, the an- terior wall of the uterus was found raptured to the extent of about five inches.—Hugenberger relates three cases ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeit.,'1862, Heft 16). Case i.—In a well-formed multipara, after three days' labour, and the escape of the liqxior amnii, the child's face was found presenting at the brim. Pour hours after admission into the hospital the woman died suddenly, with sudden and great distension of the abdomen. After a fruitless attempt at extraction by the forceps, the dead child, whose long diameter of the head was nearly five inches, was removed by the Caesarean section from the apparently unruptured uterus; but during the operation between two and three pounds of blood escaped from the abdominal cavity, and post-mortem, a rupture to the extent of about three fifths of an inch, with friable edges, was found in the posterior wall of the uterus, corresponding to the promon- - tory of the sacrum. Case 2.—Here the rupture was occasioned by a fall upon the edge of a table, the foetus passed into the cavity of the abdomen, and the woman died on the spot. Case 3.—In a third case the rupture occurred with the simultaneous passage of the child into the abdomen. The child Avas delivered through the rent thus made, and both mother and child recovered.—Three cases are also related by Niemann ('Ilenke's Zeitschr. £ d. Staats.,'. 1862, Heft 4). C^ase I.—After an easy labour and natural delivery, the placenta