CATHETEUISM OF THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. 267 seen six cases of retinitis leucaemica, and has found in all essentially the same condition; in one case Dr. von Eecklingshausen found that the white spots were caused by the same form of sclerosis of the nerve- fibres, as that which occurs in the retinitis of Bright's disease according to H. Midler. J. C. Wordsworth, case of spontaueous pulsation of the artena cen- tralis retinffi during temporary faintness (' Ophth. Hosp. Eep.,' iv, m)- H. D. Noyes, effects of albuminaria on the retina (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, ii,323). Dr. Blessig, on retinal haemorrhage (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' iv, 273). Prof. A. von Grrafe clinical lecture on a case of retro-bulbar abscess, separation of the retina, &c. (' Klin. Monatsbl. f. Augeuh., i, 49). A. Mooren, on retinitis pigmentosa (ib., p. 93). H. Walton, case of retinal separation, in which a puncture was made for the evacuation of fluid ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 363). J. H, Jackson, on defects of sight in brain disease (' Ophth. Hosp. Eep.,' Remeralopia.—E. Porster, on the limits of the field of vision, and on hemeralopia ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 475). A. Netter, on dark rooms in the treatment (Paris, Gr. Bailliere, and 'Ann. d'Ocul.'vol. xlix, p. 164). M. Bitot, on a conjunctival affection, hitherto unde- scribed, accompanying hemeralopia ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 284), and J. A. Villemin (ib., p. 332). Dr. Eitner, epidemic of hemeralopia ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 245). EAE. At the request of Dr. Kramer, a committee was appointed by the Berlin Medical Society to examine some points in dispute between him and Erhard. It was composed of Krieger, Leyden, von Eeckling- hausen, Teuber, Virchow, and reported to the following efiect (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 258): The programme drawn up by Dr. Kramer states— 1. That when air is blown into the Eustachian tube by means of the catheter, it really passes into the tympanic cavity, though the mem- brana tympani is entire, because— 2. The accompanying sound is produced by friction of the ingoing air against the membrana tympani and the walls of the tympanic cavity. Alterations in the tube or in the walls of the tympanic cavity cause alterations in the sound, by means of which the former may be recognised. 3. The air that is thus blown into the tympanic cavity, when the membrana tympani is entire, necessarily returns back into the pharynx through the Eustachian tube if the blowing is continued. 4. Catheterism enables us to recognise, not only permeability of the tube in general, but also very various degrees of contraction of it. 5. The tube is always pervious, yet it does not follow— a. That the tympanic cavity always contains air, and— h. By no means that it is not the seat of the functional disturbance. 6. According to my conception of the action of air driven through the instrument, the catheter is indispensably necessary only in the