hki'Out on mfdwifery, etc. 356 bi'ought down !i full-grown male child, minus the head, much decom- posed, and saturated in linces. The vagina was well syringed out, and the patient left free from pain. Examination with the speculum two days after sliowed a large rent in the vagina to the right of the os uteri. Yov some days all ftccal matter passed per vaginam about every half hour ; this gradually diminished, and two months afterwards tlie fajces passed naturally, and the patient rapidly regained health and etrengtii. TJlTtTSTJAL LOCALITY 01" PEEGNAKCT. Dr. Haydou records a case of extra-uterine foetation, in Avliicli two fu3tuses were found in connection with the same tube (' Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,' vol. v, p. 280). A young woman died after a few hours' illness, from rupture of the sac of a tubal foetation, and consequent haemorrhage. The post-mortem examination showed all the organs healthy, except the uterus and appendages. In the peritoneal cavity was found a mass of coagulated blood extending seven inches upwards from the pubes towards the left ilium, and from ten to twelve inches on the right side up to and round the duodenum. In the pelvis were several pounds of dark, clotted blood. The foetus had escaped from the ruptured sac, and lay vrith its placenta and membranes loose in the pelvis. Dr. Tyler Smith and Dr. Braxton Hicks give a report of the uterus and its appendages. After mentioning the size of the uterus, and its decidua, they show that the right Fallopian tube came from the middle of the uterus. The tube was much elongated and distended in the middle by a sac which had burst. The right ovary, double the size of the left, was attached to the middle third of the sac, and contained a corpus luteum of a six months' normal pregnancy, except that the centre was already filled with a white structure, and seemed to have possessed a well-defined border to the cavity. The foetus which escaped answered to that of a three months' pregnancy, was enclosed in its membranes, and presented a shri- velled appearance, with scarcely any trace of bony structure. Appended to the edge of the rent in the sac was a small solid mass the size of a walnut, which proved to be also a small foetus, packed tightly within a membrane, the base of which was adherent to the outside of the sac by firm membranous adhesions, forming a narrow pedicle. There was no trace of any ovular structures beyond the enclosing membrane. The following conclusions are added by the reporters :—ist. That some time since, the patient had conceived extra-uterine; that the foetus was attached to the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube, in such a manner as not to form any impediment to conception. That the i'oetus died at about the second month of pregnancy, enclosed still in its ovular structures ; that it then gradually came away in its present state, the chorion villi being absorbed. 2nd. That at a later period, probably six months before death, she again conceived extra-uterine, but the ovum now descended to the middle of the tube, where it became arrested, lived about three months, and then died, three months after which the sac burst and death ensued. It appears probable that the position and length of the Fallopian tube