217 CAITSES OF OSTEOMYKLITIS. generally occur suddenly, and are attended by characteristic general symptoiiis. 4. Tiie ulcerative process in tlio medullary canal penetrates tiie epiphysis and cartilage, and thus the joint-affection is directly excited by the osteomyelitis. The two latter forms generally end in partial or total, fibrous or bony anchylosis, if life is prolonged over the stages of suppuration and putrid decomposition. Partial separation or loosening of the epiphysis is far more frequent than the total disunion almost exclusively mentioned by writers. Especially is this the case with the femur, wliere in seventeen cases the author only had two in which total separation, with free motion of the inferior epiphysis, was perceived. In both cases reunion from the for- mation of callus and increased length of the extremity resulted. In six other cases tlie separation was only marked by slight mobility, and at a later period by a little angular bend. Secondary separation of the superior epiphysis of the tibia is more frequent than the total separa- tion of that of the primarily diseased femur, and is also far more often total. Separation of the epiphysis can, of course, only occur before its union by bone with the shaft; it is induced by the morbid process attacking the intermediate cartilage. The large abscesses, which gene- rally form at the inner and posterior surface of the thigh, are more rarely accompanied by necrosis, than is stated by authors; nor is the spontaneous communication between the intra- and extra-periosteal collections of pus, nor the puti-id decomposition of the matter so constant as supposed by Klose. The phlebitis of Klose includes two processes—that of thrombosis and that of phlebitis. The diffuse, spreading stoppage of the medullary veins can be most accurately fol- lowed in cases of traumatic origin. When large collaterals are obstructed, the symptoms are very marked—a deep pei'iosteal oedema, a serous effusion into the adjacent articular cavity, are combined with a dirty, pale, doughy, painful swelling of the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue. Should phlebitis ensue, diffuse suppurations appear in the place of the simple oedematous infiltration, the destructive processes of ulcer- ation and mortification almost entirely prevent reparative action, and pyaemia or septicaemia usually result. Causes.—According to tlie author's experience, spontaneous diffuse osteomyelitis is by no means a rare disease. It was preceded, not un- frequently, by over-exertion. All the patients belonged to the poorest class, and were of debilitated, unhealthy constitution; the age varied from thirteen to twenty-five years; in twenty-three patients there were seven females. Active nutrition and relative congestion of the epiphyses form certainly an essential pre-disposing factor, M hich may be increased at any given time by more rapid growth. The femur is attacked far more frequently than the other long bones {"iZ'S^g per cent.), and the left more frequently than the right one (eleven out of seventeen cases). The author has rarely met with cases in Avhich a number of bones were affected; he has almost invariably seen the disease only spread across the joint to the next bone, thus from the femur to the tibia; only in rare cases has he found it affecting distant bones. Hijmptoms and course.—Klose's division into three stages is quite artificial, and must be rejected. Chassaignac and his followers did not