UEI'OIIT OX SUllGliRY. even the size of a nut, attended by an intense!}' yellow hue, and partial destruction of the corresponding hepatic cells, from embolism of the hepatic artery ; (ii) some globules of quicksilver, which had probably stopped for some time in the heart, had become enclosed in coagula of blood; (12) iuliltration, inflammation, and aiieurismal dilatation of some of the arteries, into which sucii coated globules liad passed. Tlie autlior notes, as the usual results of putrid poisoning of the blood, that the intestinal mucous membrane is very red from congestion and infiltration, and that the bowel contains a bloody slime. Discussion on embolism (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 587). W. Cooper (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 488). TRAIS-SFUSIOK'. II. Demme, on the importance of transfusion in military surgery ('Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' i, 437).—A great field is open for the application of transfusion to cases of ana;mia and exhaustion from hajmorrhage. In many cases severe primary bleeding is not only immediately dan- gerous, but also exerts a most injurious effect in promoting secondary, and especially parenchymatous, haemorrhage. Another indication for its use in military surgery is furnished by the chronic anteniia from long-continued and profuse suppurations. It was on five such cases that Neudorfer of Prag operated, in 1859, during the Italian war, furnishing the first examples of the employment 01 this operation in military practice. It appears, however, that great deterioration of the power of assimilation, profuse intestinal catarrh, or far-advanced hectic fever contra-indieates its use. Finally, it will always remain of value, as a powerful stimulant, in nervous exhavistion, in syncope, &c.; it is not improbable that it will prove of much service in asphyxia from chloroform. On the other hand, among its dangers are the paralysis of the heart, often noticed by Brown-Sequard as a con- sequence of too rapid injection of blood, and the danger of causing con- gestion, and even rupture, of the blood-vessels in the lungs and other internal organs. The attempt of a recent writer, L. C. Morel, to re- introduce the immediate method must be considered vain, for the expe- riments of Diefienbach had already shown that his method must be for ever abandoned. Much more important is the question whether human blood alone must be employed ; the experiments of Diefienbach, Brown- Sequard and others have shown that the only danger is from a want of proportion between the size of the blood-corpuscles and the calibre of the capillaries, and that the transfusion of blood into an animal of another species has the same excellent eflect, provided the blood-corpuscles are of equal size, or smaller than the calibre of the ca])iUaries. Brown-Sequard refers some of the failures in previous experiments to the introduction of too large quantities of carbonic acid. Physiologists of importance, as Valentin and Yierordt, consider the innocuous use of animal blood in human transfusion to be an imjiorhnnt discovery; and Demme thinks it will much facilitate its introduction into military surgery. Par larger quantities of blood can be injected, and the o[)cration be repeated more frequently, than was formerly the