CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 176^ The rate of mortality varied greatly in different districts, from .3-43 m the province of Mantua to 47-85 in Sondrio. As to the causes of the disease, neither poverty and misery, nor malaria, nor exposure to the rays of the sun, nor pecuUarities of soil and climate, nor the character of the water drank, the habits of the peasantry, or the construction of their dwellings, afford any satisfactory explanation of the existence of the disease, although some of them, by deteriorating the general power of the inhabitants, must powerfully predispose them to suffer from any morbific cause, and impart to disease developed under such circumstances a pecu- liarly intractable character. The opinion more generally received in Italy at the present day is that the pellagrose malady is connected with the use almost exclusively, as an article of food, of the maize or Indian corn, upon which, in the form of polenta (or the flour mixed with hot water, and boiled until nearly solid,) the peasants chiefly live. From the Sar- dinian report it appears that of 626 pellagrose persons, 522 lived upon scarcely any other food than maize, and 104 took it, though not exclu- sively. It is a commonly received opinion that it is the deficiency of nutriment, and especially of the azotized elements, in the Indian com, which causes the disease, but this does not seem to be the case. In the southern districts of Italy, in Sardinia, and in Burgundy, the grain is ex- tensively or almost exclusively used as an article of food, without pro- ducing injurious effects. We know, too, that in India large numbers of the population live exclusively upon rice (containing a smaller proportion of azotized matter,) and on vegetable food, without suffering from any similar disease. It is therefore probable that it is not the absence of nutriment which produces the disease, but some change which it occasion- ally undergoes, either during growth or after being harvested. The subject has been carefully investigated by M. Ballardini in Italy and M. Costellet in France, and they conclude that the disease is due to changes in the grain from imperfect drying after being gathered. It is stated that when the maize is cultivated in climates from their dampness and coldness not altogether suited to it, it cannot be fully ripened, and when placed in the granaries, without being previously dried artificially, becomes affected by a parasitic growth. Ballardini states that this appears in the oblong groove, covered by a very fine epidermis, which corresponds to the germ, and bcneatli this is seen a greenish powdery matter. Under the micro- scope it appears to consist of small globules, perfectly round, diaphanous, and without sporidioles internally. This view, if correct, explains the cir- cumstances mentioned above, as also the ascertained fact of the greater prevalence of pellagra in cold and damp seasons, and the occasional occuiTence of a similar form of disease, as shown by MM. Roussel and Landouzy—in those who have not fed upon maize. The preventive measures recommended are—(i) improvements in the cultivation of the soil, so as to secure the more perfect growth of the maize. (2) Drying the grain in the kilns as soon as it is reaped. (3) Lessening the propor- tion of vegetable food, and of this grain in particular, in the diet. As curative means, quinine and iron, good animal food and wine, are niost bene- ficial. Antiphlogistic treatment is highly injurious. Baths, sulphurous and others, have been found useful for the skin affection. In the 'Journal de Med. et de Chir. pratiq.,' June, 1863, p. 274