llEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATlilllA MEDICA. -1.18 are in fatal cases always accompanied by symptoms belonging to the first group. Important cerebral disturbance does not occur in cases of poisoning by tliis substance. Tho headache and delirium which are observed are subordinate eiiects. Solanacece. Dr. Hayden ('Dubliil Quar. Journ.,' Aug., 1863) records a case of poisoning by the berries of the Atrojpa belladonna, in which the early symptoms of excitement, with unmeaning laughter and staggering gait, were well marked, so that the condition resembled alcoholic intoxica- tion. An emetic of mustard was given, and afterwards coffee; but in spite of this treatment, coma came on. As this passed off there Avas a second period of excitement, the patient shouting, singing, laughing, and crying alternately, and trying to get out of bed. The case ter- minated in recovery ; at the end of the third day the only effect which remained was slight dilatation of the pupils. Dr. Hayden has repeated the experiments of Mr. "Wharton Jones, from which it was concluded that belladonna acts as a stimulant to the vaso-motor nerves, and thus leads to contraction of the walls of the vessels. He finds, however, that this effect is not produced if the sentient nerves of the part to which the belladonna is applied be first divided. He therefore argues that the contraction of the vessels results from a reflex, and not from a direct action. So, also, the dilatation of the pupil would be caused by con- traction of the dilator fibres of the iris, through the sympathetic, the stimulus being carried to the centres by the fifth nerve. M. Behier relates a case of poisoning by thirteen milligrammes (nearly a fifth of a grain) of atropine in an old man aged 75 years. In three hours a state of " deep coma " had developed itself'; the pupils, how- ever, though insensible, were only moderately dilated, and the patient answered unintelligibly to questions asked in a loud voice. Ten drops of the laudanum " of Sydenham " were then given every ten minutes ; fifty drops in all. The iris then began to contract slightly when exposed to the light, and the patient heard better, and even uttered a few intelli- gible words. Soon after all the opium was given an incessant move- ment came on in all the limbs, with hyperaesthesia. Twenty drops more of the laudanum were administered after this; the patient gradu- ally recovered, and by the fifteenth hour was pretty well. ('Dnion Medicale,' 1863, No. Ixxxv). Two other cases of poisoning by belladonna, in which opium was used as a remedy, are to be found in the journals of 1863. Like the pre- ceding case, they are not of a very conclusive kind. One is a case which occurred in Italy more than twenty years ago, and is believed to be the first in which opium was employed as an antidote. It is related in the ' Gaz. Hebd.,' p. 235. A drachm of a solution of the extract of belladonna, the strength of which is not stated, was taken, and j^ro- duced severe effects. The administration of a drachm of Tinct. Opii relieved all the urgency of the symptoms. Mr. McNaniara ('Dub. Quar. Jour.,' 1863) records the other case, one of poisoning by the extract of belladonna, in a child two years old. Delirium and ddata-