206 RKPOUT on SUUGKIIY. liad calmed down ou its appearance. Besides, new symptoms indicative of the diathesis occur, which prevent, or at all events enable us to cor- rect, any error in diagnosis, yucli mistakes do, however, occur ; in one case, for example, the patient was supposed by his medical attendant to have tliree times suil'ered from measles, thrice from smallpox, and once from typhoid fever. At a more advanced period ditterent paralytic affections, neuralgia, diseases of the eye, &c., may also occur in company with other mani- festations of syphilis, the presence of which render the diagnosis much more easy. In such cases an attentive examination of the antecedents of the patient, the course or dependence of the different syphilitic phe- nomena, the relation of date or of intensity of the different nervous disorders with the other concomitant symptoms of syphilis, are so many guides to the discovery of the true nature of the nervous affec- tion. We should, however, make allowance for coincidences, and not attribute every condition which may present itself to syphilis, merely because the patient is undoubtedly syphilitic. At the same time, if a patient has never previously suffered from an analogous affection, of a neuralgic kind, for example—if this condition became developed without the existence of any appreciable cause—if it was one of those affections which occur in the course of syphilis at that period at which the dia- thesis had arrived—if, by the date of its appearance, it could be referred to syphilis—if, lastly, it was cured by the use of specifics, and at the same time as the other symptoms of the diathesis, we should then have proofs sufficient to satisfy the most sceptical, and to establish as certain a diagnosis as any in medicine. Let us take, for example, the series of morbid phenomena presented by an epileptic shepherd. In the first place, none of his family had ever been affected with any disease of the nervous system. He had always enjoyed good health, and never dis- played any sign of cerebral disease. In these circumstances he con- tracted syphilis, for which he was subjected to very irregular and insufficient treatment. Two years later, ha^^ng already suffered from a condylomatous affection of the pharynx and violent pains in the head, he became epileptic. After numerous attacks, the epileptic symptoms yielded to a specific treatment, while at the same time the affection of the throat disappeared, after which several years elapsed, during which he enjoyed good health. But at a more distant date other constitu- tional symptoms made their appearance, such as ulceration of the pharynx, affections of the nasal bones, and intense pains in the head, and were speedily followed by a return of the epileptic seizures. Sub- jected anew, and after two years' persistence of these conditions, to specific treatment, both epilepsy and the other syphilitic symptoms were relieved. Some time after, all the aftections disappeared com- pletely. In such a case, though the epilepsy presented no peculiar phenomena, there could be no doubt of its dependence on the syphilitic diathesis. The cases are not always so simple and satisfactory. It sometunes so happens that, during the active existence of constitutional syphilis, cerebral symptoms make their appearance which are ill-defined in tlieir characters, or, assuming the form of apoplectic attacks or cerebral