368 llEPOHT ON MIDWIPERY, ETC. excessive amount. Puncture of the membranes should be performed ■when the distension of the uterus becomes enormous, even though labour may yet seem distant. If only a portion of the fluid could be drawn off, perhaps labour would not immediately follow, and great relief would accrue to the patient, who might thus be carried forward in her. pregnancy. The three following classes of facts will help to illustrate the functions of the amnion:—(i) Cases of plural births are occasionally met Avith in which one foetus having been blighted, the fluid contents of its, enveloping amnion have disappeared; this the author would attribute to its absorption by the membrane itself. (2) Cases occur in which the liquor amuii presents a very altered appearance, all its sensible charac- ters being changed, and instead of being transparent, thin, and inodo- rous, it is thick, turbid, and fetid. This is an instance of perverted secretion. (3) The quantity of the secretion may be enormously in- creased, or may be speedily replaced if it come away. These facts all concur in strengthening the analogy between the amnion and serous membranes, by showing that it can, under certain circumstances, in- crease, absorb, or alter its proper secretion. The author thus sums up his views :—(i) Dropsy of the ovum certainly does not depend on any dropsical diathesis of the woman. (2) It may occur quite independently of any dropsical condition of the foetus. (3) It is not constantly associated with any morbid condition of the mem- branes or placenta. (4) Nor has it any special relation with any ab- normal condition of the foetus. (5) That the cause is purely local may be inferred from the fact, frequently observed, that in plural pregnan- cies, where the disease existed, it was confixied, in every instance, to one ovum only. (6) It has probably no connection with syphilis. In only one of the author's cases Avas the woman so aiFected. (7) The mother's recovery is afifected by the disease. Of the 33 cases, 4 died, and putting aside two of these as resulting frpm accidental causes ; viz., rupture of the uterus and epidemic puerperal fever, the mortality still remains 6*45 per cent. Dr. Braxton Hicks relates three cases in which labour was obstructed by abnormal conditions of the foetus (' Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,'vol. v, p. 285). _ . ^ • ^^i, , In the first case delivery was impeded by great distension ol the aD- domen of the foetus by ascites. Chloroform was given, and the parietes of the child punctured with the crotchet; about two quarts of fluid in- stantly escaped, and rapid expulsion of the child followed. The pla- centa was very large, ragged, and pulpy; on removal, it was found that the whole of the villi wanted cohesion. The author suggests that this condition arose from oedema of the placenta, and this view is supported by the fact that before the membranes broke a considerable quantity ot bloody serum escaped. Both of the child's ureters were completely occluded near the bladder, for one third of their length ; above this point they began to be distended till they reached the kidneys, the pelves of which, on both sides, were distended into cysts, having on one side a