NERVOUS SYSTEM. 93 The abscess, of the size of a hazel-nut, was situated rather to the left side, it had caused paralysis of the right facial nerve, and of the lev. palp.braucli of the right third, and produced tonic contraction of the masseter. There was no affection of the limbs, wiiich Meynert explains by the circumstance that tlie longitudinal fibres in the pons were not destroyed, only somewhat displaced. RiiTDFLEiscH, Ed.—Oil Histological alterations in Gray Degeneration of the Brain and Spinal Cord. Virchow's Archiv, xxvi, p. 474, 1863. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 120, p. 183. From examination of a case of tabes dorsalis, Rindfleisch describes the disease as essentially consisting in a growth of fine-felted connective tissue, which commences with a remarkable thickening of the coats of the small arteries. The nervous tissue becomes atrophied and destroyed. Heine, C.—On Infantile Paralysis. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Nov. 28ti), Dec. 5th. Heine believes there are difi'ereiit kinds of paralysis in infancy as well as in later periods of life, but affirms that the true infantile paralysis to which he refers, and which is undoubtedly the most common, is of spinal origin. After describing the conditions observed during life, he gives some account of four post-mortem examinations. The first of these was that of an adult who had had marked paraplegia from infancy; the cord was found greatly atrophied and shrunken from the eighth pair of dorsal nerves downwards, and the atrophy involved also the peripheral nerves. In the second case, one of paralysis of the whole of one leg, the atrophy and morbid change of colour were principally confined to the anterior roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves of the right side. In the third case, one of hemiplegia, examined a few years after the appearance of the affection, the remains of a former meningitis were found in an old, solid, and gelatinous pseudo-membrane, lining the whole arachnoid of the cord, so that the latter was strongly constricted, and started out when the membrane was cut into. The membranous exudation spread over the roots of the nerve-trunks of the paralysed limb, and reached the cauda equina. The last case was that of a child, set. 10 years, with paralysis of both lower limbs and great deformity of the knees and feet. Tuber- cles were found in the cord on microscopic examination. BouciiUT. —O/i the Contagiousness of Nervous Diseases. L'Union, 57, 58, 60, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 86. Bouchut records two epidemics of this kind occurring at Paris. One, in 1840, appeared among 400 females employed in making shirts, of whom 85 were attacked with loss of consciousness and slight convul- sions. Its further spread was arrested by exclusion of those who were once affected from the work, and putting in lower windows. The second, in 1861, occurred during the preparation for the first communion in the church of Montmartre. Out of 150 girls, above 40 were attacked with loss of consciousness and convulsions, but not one of the same number of boys who were present at the same time.