80 UEPOllT ON PllACXICAL MEDICINK. (100) lie doubts the efficacy of zinc in epilepsy and in epileptoid cases, (101) Radchllc believes that alcoholic sliuiulanta are the most trustworthy antispasmodics in the prevention and treatment of convulsion. Experi- cuce convinces him that this is the case in epilepsy, hysteria, and chorea. (103) There is reason to believe that bloodletting, in one form or another^ may be permitted in certain cases of convulsion, or where apoplectic extra- vasation is imminent from the gorged state of the cerebral veins. (10 j) Therapeutically as well as pathologically, there is every reason to believe that the means to be employed in the treatment of convulsion are those which exalt, not those which depress, vital action. (104) The condition .of the respiration in tremor is one which warrants the belief that this dis- order is connected with depressed and not with exalted vital power. (105, 106) The same is true of the circulation and the innervation. (108) The means to be employed in the treatment of tremor are those which exalt vital energy in general, and nervous tone in particular. (112) llespecting spasm also the conclusion is the same as that which has been drawn respecting convulsion and tremor, namely, this—that the morbid muscular contraction is connected with a deficient manifestation of vital power in general, and of nerve power in particular, the great func- tions of circulation, respiration, and innervation, being depressed rather tlian exalted. It would seem that the pathology of spasm, no less than that of convulsion and tremor, is as much in harmony with the views of the physiology of muscular motion which are set forth in these lectures as it is at variance with current views on this subject. It would seem, in fact, that the only key to the pathology is that which is supplied by the physio- logical premises, and that these physiological premises are confirmed and established by the pathology. In the pathology and in the physiology of muscular motion it appears to be one and the same story throughout. As to the treatment of spasm, RadclifTe expresses his opinion that the means to be employed are those which exalt vital enei'gy in general and nervous energy in particular. (114) Instead of being connected with a state of febrile or inflammatory excitement, there is reason to believe that pain is connected with a depi-essed state of the circulation. Radcliffe endeavours to substantiate this by reference to the processes of gout, rheumatic fever, smallpox, and dislocation, in which he makes out that the pains disappear in proportion as the inflammatory phenomena become developed. (115) The condition of the respiration during pain sheds no certain light upon the pathology of pain. (ii6) Instead of being connected with an excited condition of the function of innervation, there is reason to believe that pain is connected with a depressed condition of this function. Radcliffe illustrates this from the phenomena of neuralgia, as observed in his own person, and from a case of meningitis, in which agonising pain was suc- ceeded by fierce delirium. He concludes that the pathology of pain agrees in all essential particulars with the pathology of tremor, convulsion, and spasm, and the process on which it depends implies vital exhaustion, and not vital stimulation. He advocates the treatment of all these disorders by supplying the weak nervous system with appropriate nutrients, such as oily articles of food and medicine, with phosphorus in various forms; by upholding and rousing the vital powers in general, and the nerve power in particular ; by a stimulant plan of treatment, in which alcoholic drinks