308 llEFORT ON SURGERY. ineut never i-caclies tlio bladder, being eitber too sbort (as is frequently the case, especially wben the prostate is enlarged_), or, being thrust on- wards, makes a false passage in which the point becomes entangled. Or again, the surgeon employs an elastic catheter withont a stilette, under tlie impression that thus no damage can possibly be done; and the instrument is then either too abort, or, as is frequently the case, it bends upon itself, and never reaches the bladder at all. It has happened that a catheter has been blocked with coagul um, &c., which has not allowed the passage of urine, even after the catheter has entered the bladder; but only great carelessness could overlook this. The only way to be perfectly certain that a catheter has reached an empty bladder is to inject water through it, which it will readily admit; whereas if the instrument has not reached the bladder, it will be impossible to inject more than a few drops. The same plan may be adopted in those rare cases where a fall bladder has been reached, but the instrument has become tempo- rarily obstructed with clot, which prevents the exit of urine." "In January, 1861, I was requested to visit Mr. M—, a hale, hearty man, ast. 62, who was suffering from retention of urine, arising from over-distension of the bladder. He told me that whilst travelling from Birmingham to London he had, after leaving Eugby, an urgent desire to pass urine, which he was compelled to repress, and when he arrived in jjondon he found it impossible to relieve himself of even the smallest quantity. He drove to his house as quickly as possible, and sent for his surgeon, who attempted to pass a catheter, but failed. There was considerable haemorrhage from the urethra, but no urine passed ; the patient was therefore placed in a warm bath, ..and twenty minims of tincture of opium were administered. At midnight I was requested to see him, when a superficial examination sufficed to show that the bladder was greatly distended, and upon passing & prostatic catheter (which was accomplished without the slightest difficulty) more than a quart of urine was removed. Vivid recollections of previous cases in which grave errors had been committed, induced me to point out particularly to the practitioner in attendance the necessity of introducing the catheter at least four times in the twenty-four hours, in order that the bladder might be kept moderately empty, and so be enabled to recover its tone; but that gentleman, believing that all difficulty in the treatment of the case was over, did not think it necessary that I should see the patient again. A fortnight afterwards I had occasion to meet the same prac- titioner', and upon inquiring aboirt his patient, learned that he was dead and buried! I afterwards ascertained that the bladder had not been relieved by the catheter, as I had advised, because the urine had dribbled away after many hours' retention, and it was therefore believed that there was not any in the bladder." In another case, " in addition to the urgent symptoms consequent upon an over-distended bladder, the patient lost a considerable quantity of blood from the bladder, whicii was not effectually arrested until 1 had recourse to the admiuistration of turpentine in ten minim doses, the good effects of which i have frequently witnessed in such cases. " Towards the close of last year I was requested by telegram to proceed to a town more than 150 miles distant, to visit a gentleman who had