IIEPOIIT ON PttACTlCAL MEDICINK. 9-1. Anstie, F. E.—On the Therapeutical Value of Cod-lioev Oil in Chroni, Convulsive Diseases. Brit. IMed. Joiirn., Marcli ytli, Anstie states that lie lias found the oil more constantly useful thiiii any other medicine in paralysis agitans, simple epilepsy, chorea, and mercurial tremor. Out of 20 cases of epilepsy, 7 completely recovered, and several others were more or less beuefited. In 3 of these cases tht general nutrition of the body had been excellent, and only that of tlie nervous system appeared deficient, so that the conclusion appeared inevi- table that the oil had especially addressed itself to the nervous centre.«. He discouraged strongly the search after specific remedies for convulsive affections, and recommended a rational treatment. Edin. Med. Jour., Jan., contains a valuable critical review of syphilitic aftections of the nei'vous system. Griesingeb.—On the Diagnosis of Cysticerci of the Brain. Archiv. d. Heilkunde, i86a. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. Griesinger, after carefully analysing between 50 and 60 cases of this disease, arrives at the following general conclusions :—(i) That the diagnosis of cysticercus must be based on a twofold series of considera- tions— the one resting on the improbability of any other cerebral affec- tion, the symptoms not corresponding; and the other on the presence of a definite series of symptoms. (2) Cases of convulsive attacks, being more or less epileptic, are chiefly suspicious which come on in a sub- acute way, or quickly increase to a certain pitch, and present!}', after a steady increase in number and intensity, assume the general appearance of a very severe cerebral disease. (3) The probability of cysticercus is increased if these symptoms come on in patients of adult age, being previously healthy, or in men in whom neither hereditary disposition nor traumatic nor syphilitic influences, nor lesions of the vessels or heart, could have given rise to them. (4) A suspicion of this disease would be aroused if, under the circumstances last named, mental depression and confusion, accompanied with giddiness, loss of sight and hearing, headache, coma, &c., occur. (5) Symptoms of cerebral lesion, if con- joined with paralysis, are to be looked upon almost with certainty as not having origin in the cysticercus. (6) The manifestation of cysticerci in certain parts under such circumstances naturally elevates the probability into certainty. He divides the various collected cases into five categories:— (a) Those which run their course without any or with but very obscure symptoms. (6) Cases in which epilepsy exists without mental disturb- ance ; in these cases death occurs either independently of epilepsy, or so far connected with it that the epileptic symptoms first set in shortly before death, or a kind of cerebral disturbance is developed from one or more of the attacks which leads to death, (c) Cases in which, along with epilepsy, psychical disturbance is at the same time set up, whose continua- nuation and character warrant the designation of a mental disease. The psy- chical disturbance is expressed at one time as mania, true delirium, or con- fusion of mind ; at another, as obstinacy or imbecihty, and appears either before or after epilepsy, {d) Cases in which epilepsy is wanting, but in which the mental disturbance exists, accompanied frequently by other motor