IMPEKFOEATE ANUS. 297 was placerl, in 48 cases, thirty times on the right side, generally between the umbilicus and right iliac fossa, nine times on the left side, and nine times in the middle line. Out of 53 cases the large intestine was stran- gulated only four times, the small intestine forty-nine times. The duration was in 10 cases from eight hours to three days; from four to eight days in 15 cases (three operations) ; from nine to fourteen days in 8 cases (one operation); from fifteen to twenty days in 6 cases (three operations). The diagnosis of bands and adhesions may be to some extent aided by the fact, that almost all the cases of obstruction from adhesions have occurred in adult females, whilst by far the majority of those from bands were in males (from seven to eighty-five years old). Obstruction from adhesions must be treated just as that from faecal collections; that from bands by forced injections, fluid mercury, and perhaps drastic purgatives; an operation will, however, be generally required, and gastrotomy is to be preferred to enterotomy. The author concludes with the consi-deration of cases of internal hernia, and of strangulation from the displacement of other viscera of the abdomen, such as the spleen, or from abdominal tumours. A. P. Duchaussoy, on obstruction caused by biliary calculi (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 700). Dr. Johnson and Mr. Fergusson, operation ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 435). W. Gruber, on strangulation by a knot formed of the last part of the ileum and the sigmoid flexure ('Arch. f. Path. Anat.,' xxvi, 377). W. Brinton, on an anomalous in- tussusception ('Lancet,' 1863, 1,409). J. Gay, on invagination (ab- stracted in ' Lond. Med. Eev.,' iii, 387). Dr. Scholz, abdominal section ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 21). von Thadeu, colotomy according to Fine ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, 154). M. Bosia, on intussusception in infants, with a case cured by catheterism ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 502). Dr. Breisky, case of retroperitoneal hernia (' Wien. Med. Jahrb.,' 1863, i. Anal. 63). EECTTJM. Malformations.—Mr. Bryant is of opinion'C Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 391) that the inguinal or Littre's operation'should be performed, when relief cannot be obtained by any operation in the anal region. " We have next to determine whether the intestine should be opened in the left side, in which it was originally suggested, and has hitherto been practised ; or whether it would not be a more certain and equally effectual operation to open the colon in the rigM groin. After care- fully reviewing the chief facts connected with tliis subject, I believe that the best practice lies in the performance of this last suggestion, and my opinion is based upon the following reasons:—Firstly, the large intestine will to a certainty be found in the right iliac region, whilst in the left this certainty does not exist; this has been shown by Mr. Curling, even in normal subjects, in which no deformity exists. In two instances out of twenty, in which ho practised this operation upon the dead child, the colon could not be found in its natural position, and on s.ubsequent dissection it was found to be lying on the right side. In cases of maldevelopment there is strong reason to believe that this irregular position of the descending colon exists in a larger proportion