878 EEPOET ON MIDWIFERY. Sinclair:—The total number of cases was 3 7,036. Of these, 742 women, having labour protracted beyond twenty-four hours, were delivered with- out aid; 46 died, being nearly i to 16; of the children, 162 were lost, being i to 4*6. The women delivered by the forceps were 248, and of these, 20 died, or i in i2'4; 50 children delivered by the forceps were lost, or about I in ^. So far, therefore, as the general results are concerned, the maternal mortality in protracted labour will bear comparison with that where the forceps were employed. In both instances the maternal mortality is higher than the average, because it was impossible to sepa- rate the cases of puerperal fever from ordinary labours. To place the question, however, in the clearest light, the practice of Dr. Collins, who only used the forceps once in 694 cases, may be compared with that of Dr. Shekleton (Johnston and Sinclair's report), who used them once in 68f cases. Both were in charge of the same hospital and of similar cases. The deaths of mothers delivered without forceps, in pro- tracted labours, were i in 16 (Dr. Collins's report). The deaths of mothers delivered with the forceps were i in 18 ('Drs. Johnston and Sinclair's Report). If this difference on the one side be compared with that on the opposite—i in t2'4—from the total results, it may be said to disappear; proving that in cases of difficult labour, which are of necessity protracted, mere duration does not increase the mortality. Prom the fairest review of statistics which the author can make, he shows that in difficult labours, where so much judgment is required, there is no essential difference in the maternal mortality whether the forceps be used or not. The deaths of the children are also alike, being about I in 5 cases. Dr. Barnes, in a paper " On the Midwifery Forceps " (' Lancet,' vol. ii, 1862, p. 31), points out the objections to the short straight forceps. ' The instrument by which Dr. Barnes proposes to remedy its defects is similar to, but less powerful than, Mie French forceps of Dubois and Pajot, and resembles that of Mr. Eoberton, of Manchester, with these advantages—that it is equally adapted for application at the brim, cavity, or outlet, and that it diminishes the risk of laceration of the perinaeum.—Dr. Gayton proposes to secure the handles of the forceps during delivery by joining them on the rack-and-spring principle ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' vol. h, 1863, p. 218). The following is an abstract of a memoir by Dr. J. Braxton Hicks, " On Combined External and Internal Version" (' Trans, of Obstetrical Society of London,' vol. v, pp. 219—259): _ p , , , ^, Dntil within the last few years, in effecting version of the child, the whole hand was introduced into the uterus, in order to seize the part to be brought down. The unavoidable delay occasioned by this mode of practice, and the suffering often induced by it, proved in many cases ffrave objections to its employment. Dr. Collins and Dr. E. Lee lave pointed out that in some cases of transverse presentation it is not 'necessary to pass more than two fingers into the os uteri in order to