XEKVOUS SYSTEM. 89 The men worked under a pressure varying from twenty-seven pounds on the square inch to thirty-eight or forty-three pounds. The effects experienced hy the workmen were pain in tlie ears, which soon passed away, or was relieved hy the act of swallowing ; headache, increased sense of hearing, anomalous pains in the limhs, occasionally bleeding from the nose, and a feeling of general distress and uneasiness. These symptoms were all much increased when the transition from one medium to another was too rapidly effected. The state of the general health and previous habits of the workers appeared to exercise considerable influence on the symptoms. These symptoms were felt on first passing into the com- pressed air, but to a much greater extent on leaving it and passing into the external air. In this stage the serious and fatal effects were produced. Six cases are recorded, four of which proved fatal. Two fell down sud- denly in a state of insensibility on reaching the outer air. They were totally insensible when seen, the surface cold and livid; in one the right side of the face was partially paralysed ; the pulse very weak, fluttering, and irregular—about 150 ; respirations very irregular; teeth firmly clenched; slight movements of the legs when the soles of the feet were rubbed. Blood was taken from the arm to the amount of gxij ; it was very black and viscid. They both sank in twenty-four hours. Two others were serai-comatose at first, able to answer questions on being roused, but speedily relapsing into insensibility. The comatose symptoms passed off in about eighteen hours, when the lower part of the body was found to be paralysed both as to motion and sensation. In one the paralysis extended as high up as the fourth rib, in the other to the eighth dorsal vertebra. There was incontinence of urine and fseces. Death occurred from bed-sores. A fifth case was not taken ill suddenly ; he was found some hours after coming out of the cylinder much depressed, but quite sensible, complaining of severe pains in his legs and thighs, very sharp and shooting. He was quite unable to walk, and his legs and feet w^ere cold and numb, so much, so, indeed, that he burned his toes a good deal without being at all awai"e of it. With internal and external stimulation, he recovered in two days. There were many other cases of slight paralysis and muscular pains, and other anomalous nervous affec- tions. The authors refer the symptoms in the fatal cases to rupture of small vessels in the brain or cord, owing to the removal of pressure. There was no noxious element in the condensed air. Five Arabs in Egypt died in a similar way; blood issued from their noses, mouths, and ears. Leudet.— On Congestion of the Spinal Cord after a fall or violent exertions. Arch. Gen., May, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 185. The presumed causes are not followed immediately by any signs of con- cussion, but after a completely free interval of several hours or days a gradually increasing palsy of the lower and even of the upper extremities commences, which is followed by diminution of sensibility in the paralysed parts, by pain, generally not intense, in the vertebral column, in the joints, and in the course of the nerve-trunks. Sometimes there is also paralysis of the bladder, convulsions, and impairment of vision. All the symptoms