244 REPORT ON SURGEEY. to reflection, their sunken or raised position can be positively deter- mined. Even the cupped optic diwc, tlie most iiiarkecl of tlie surfiice- changCK ol' llio I'uudus oculi, bctra^'s itHclf chiefly by the bending of the vessels at its margin, and by inexperienced observers is not seldom mis- taken for an elevation. Indeed, the limited ])o\ver of one eye to furnish data for correctly estimating relief and relative position is, perhaps, tiio chief source of difficulty in the interpretation of ophthalmoscopic appearances. We are indebted to M. Giraud-Teulon for the suggestion by which this difficulty may be overcome. His binocular ophthalmo- scope has now been nearly twelve months in use in this country, and it may fairly be said to enable the student to discern at once the nature of appearances that, with the monocular instruments, are obscure to any but the most experienced observers. Witli its assistance, not only is the depressed optic nerve immediately recognised as an unmistakable cup or cavity, but even small effusions of blood, or lymph, or serum, on the one hand, and patches of atrophy on the other, present aspects that are conclusive with regard to their relations to the general level of the field. The vessels of the retina, too, appear to stand out from, and to be distinctly on a plane anterior to, those of the choroid, which, again, in young light eyes, with good illumination, may be recognised at dif- ferent depths in the chorio-capillaris. It would, perhaps, be too much to say that such assistance is of great value to those who have had large experience in the use of monocular instruments; but for those who desire to learn the use of the ophthalmoscope quickly, or to avoid errors of interpretation in spite of having had small experience, the instrument of Dr. Teulon can hardly be too highly estimated. It has, however, two serious faults. In the first place, the observer is annoyed by multiplied reflections of the mirror; and in the second, any one instrument can only be used by persons whose eyes are placed at the same distance apart. A slight difference in width sufficient to prevent perfect combination of the two portions of the light-pencil produces double vision and complete confusion. A somewhat greater difference, by excluding one eye from the visual act, reduces the instrmnent to a monocular ophthalmoscope of small utility, one half tlie light being lost to the observer." After describing the modifications suggested by Mr. Laurence, and carried out by Messrs. Murray and Heath, of 43, Piccadilly he states that " Messrs. IMurray and Heath's instrument, on account of its adjusting properties, not only admits of being passed from hand to hand, and modified, by turning a screw, to suit any observer, but it has the much greater advantage of affording complete rest to the muscular and accommodation apparatus. By altering the inclination of the mirrors, the precise direction may be given to the pencils of light, that enables tlie eye to receive them without eff'ort and to study the images they form without fatigue. On this account, and also because it is free from the reflections of the mirror that are so annoying in Dr. Teulon's instrument, it is the easiest of all ophthalmoscopes to use, and is calcu- lated to promote the general cultivation of ophthalmoscopic inquiry. There is a superficial appearance of complexity about the screws, tlie use of which sliould be mastered by preliminary practice with a candle- flame as an object j and the instrument is only ])erlcctly adjusted when