GENERAL SYSTEM. 47 fever tlie (empernture of the water is to be lower, and the bath to be longer continued, say ten minutes. Brand lays stress on the manage- ment of what he calls degenerated typhus, when the cerebral power is greatly depressed. The affusions must not be of a lower temperature than about'68'' Frthr., the bath not below 90° Fahr., the wet-slieet rubbings not below 62° Fahr. The baths must also be of shorter duration, and repeated about three or four times daily, especially when the sensory faculties become clouded, and the patients get restless. In cases showing great adynamia and profound sopor, frequently repeated cold affusions on the head are recommended. The occurrence of convulsions, which are not altogether rare, make it necessary to abstain from all water-treatment except compresses. Absolute repose, and the avoidance of all shock to the nervous system, are essential. In cases of copious intestinal hremorrhage Lebert recommends Argenti Nitrat. internally and in enemata, and ergotin every two or three hours. If bronchial secretion collect so as to interfere with the breathing, Skoda advises an occasional emetic. MuRCHisoN, C.—On the Causes of Continued Fevers. Lond. Med. Rev., April, 1863. Murchisou remarks with regard to typhus—(i) its tendency to prevail in great epidemics; (2) that though it is not especially linked to any season of the year, it prevails most towards the end of winter, and least towards the end of summer; (3) that destitution predisposes most powerfully to it; (4) that it is eminently contagious ; (5) that defective ventilation and overcrowding of human habitations exercise a powerful influence over its production and propagation. Relapsing fever is also essentially an epi- demic disease, being quite absent for some years from the London Fever Hospital. Starvation appears to have more to do with its production than overcrowding. Enteric fever, on the other hand, is an endemic disease, and varies in its degree of prevalence much less than typhus and relapsing fever. It prevails most in autumn. A high temperature is favorable to the increase and spread of the disease, while it is checked by cold and wet. Destitution does not predispose to it, nor is it generated by over- crowding and bad ventilation. Recent residence in an infected locality predisposes strongly to enteric fever. It is contagious, but only in a limited degree. Emanations from sewage and certain forms of putrefying animal matter produce enteric fever, either, according to one view, from spontaneous generation of the poison in the decomposing filth, or, according to the other view, merely because the sewage is the recipient of the infectious excreta of some previous fever patient. Murchison advocates the former opinion—(i) Because there are many facts which show that enteric fever often arises from bad drainage, independently of any trans- mission from the sick. The danger arises when the drain becomes choked up, when the sewage stagnates and ferments, and when the trans- mission of a poison from any distant locality is impeded, if not completely arrested. (2) There are numberless instances of enteric fever appearing in houses having no commuuication by drains with any other dwelling, as, for example, in isolated houses in the country. (3) There is no evi- dence that the stools of enteric fever are of such a virulent nature as has been stated. If an infinitesimal dose of the poison will produce the