PLUEAL BIRTHS. 3 Dr. Barnes, "A Case of Fibroid Tumour of the Uterus, which obstructed labour (' Trans, of Obstet. Soc. of London,' vol. v, 171). In this case the patient died from symptoms of rupture of the bladder during labour. A hard fibroid tumour was fomid in the lower part of the anterior wall of the uterus; this was jammed against the symphysis pubis by the pres- sure of the child's head, and so closed the urethra. Two lacerated openings were found in the bladder. Mr. Freeman, " A Case of Polypus Tlteri complicating Labour." ('Trans, of Obst. Soc. of London,' v, p. 42). "Without any previous symptoms, a large polypus appeared during labour, and protruded beyond the vulva, followed by the head of the child. Delivery was efl'ected without difficulty, and no hfemorrhage followed the expulsion of the placenta. Two days after delivery the polypus, weighing three and a half pounds, was removed by ligature, and the patient did well. PEOCIDENTIA OE THE GEATID TTTEEUS. Dr. Husty records a case of total procidentia of the gravid uterus ('Wien. Allg. Med. Zeitsch.,' 1862). The patient, a strong, well-built woman, set. 34, had suifered since her second labour from procidentia of the uterus. This could not be replaced in her fourth pregnancy, but was always supported by a bandage. "When taken in labour, the oa uteri was found swollen, dilated, and near the knees; the head of the child, Avhich was dead, was protruding. Reposition was easily effected, but the parts had to be supported to maintain them in situ. The head Avas then perforated, and labour completed with much difficulty. The child weighed nine pounds. The mother recovered, and bore two years later a healthy child, the uterus being maintained in the pelvis during preguancy by a bandage. PLUEAL BIETHS. The occurrence of twin birth with placenta prsevia has been thought rare. Cases in which this complication occurred are reported by Dr. Pardey ('Lancet,' vol. i, p. 53).—Version of first child; mother reco- vered, children born living, but premature. Dr. Ellis (ibid., i, p. 138). —Placenta expelled before delivery, version of both children, fatal result to both mother and children. Mr. Chambers (ibid., i, p. 313). Perfoi'ation of placenta, version, and recovery of both mother and children. The same patient had been delivered seventeen months pre- viously under precisely similar circumstances. Dr. Uvedale "West (ibid., i,p. 346).—One case of twin birth, with placenta praevia, and two cases of ante-partum ha)morrhage, with twins. In the first case delivery effected by version of both children, which were prematm-e, but born livino-. In the second case delivery natural, after rupture of the membranes • severe post-partum haemorrhage; both children born living. In the third case "first child, with breech presentation, delivered naturally ; version of second child from severe ante-partum hjemorrhage j both childreu