88 HEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. system is taken off, the disease takes up its course again from the stage at which it was arrested. In June 24th No., Latham sets forth liow a healtliy and strong system can bear an inflamrualion without (as evidenced by the pulse) being vitally hurt by it. The pulse, though it becomes characteristically hard, yet is but moderately quickened, or may not be at nil. In states of cachexy and weakness, this is reversed—the system feels the disease severely, and bears it ill. Similarly with regard to depressing remedies—in the one case they are well borne and do good, in the second they are injurio\is. ^ Duchesne Dupakc. J. de Med. and de Chir. pratiq., vol. 34, p. 78. Duchesne Duparc records the case of a baker who had got so fat that he could no longer go out of his house. He was reduced 3.3 lbs. by 400 pills of extract of " fucus vesiculosus," taken at the rate of four to ten dailj', without any unpleasant symptoms. Another case (v. he. citat.) is recorded by M. Kuhn, where a man who had a very large accumulation of fat in his abdomen, and suffered with great dyspnoea and inability to exert himself, was quite cleared in about two months by the same remedy. Oliver, W. S., M.D. Lancet, Jan. 17. Oliver insists that preserved milk, meats, vegetables, pickles, and lime juice have no efficacy whatever as anti-scorbutics, grounding this state- ment on " extensive inquiry and practical experience." Salt meat causes scurvy, from having all its protein materials dissolved out and removed in the brine. The albuminous substances of preserved meats and vegetables are rendered totally inert by the protracted boiling to which they are subjected. Canadian backwoodsmen tind raw potatoes an infallible cure for scurvy, which comes on when they subsist on salt pork, boiled potatoes, and biscuits. FoRSTER, K. — Report on Typhus. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 117, pp. 89 —130. This report comprises the literature of the subject from i8j8 to the middle of 1862. Section (a) treats of the connection existing be- tween the principal forms. Schnepp ('L'Uniou,' 118—128, 1861) believes, from his observation of disease in Egypt, that one of the diiierent forms of typhus, under certain circumstances, can change into another, and that different forms of typhus may be produced by the same infection, accord- ing to variation of climate and race. Cazalas ('L'Union,' 144,155, 1S61) observed fever at Constantinople, and in the Italian war, and describes the typhoid or abdominal, and the typhus or exanthcmatic, as the two prin- cipal species. He does not, however, think that they can be distinguished at the bed-side, nor after death, and states that their symptoms, cause, periods, duration, terminations, and morbid anatomy are identical, and that they require the same prophylaxis and treatment. He thinks that there are also numerous typhous affections which have the same origin, but run a different course. Smoler ('Memorabil.,' vii, 1862), and Skoda ('AUg. "Wien. Med. Ztg.,' vi, 1861), both maintain the identity of typhoid and typhus. Uhle, from experience of fever in Dorpat.is led to adopt the contrary views. Schnepp finds that gastric and bilious fevers in Egypt easily change, on the one hand, into remittents; on the other, into contj-