83 NEllVOUS SYSTEM. S.vpi'EY. —Gaz. des Hopit., 8, 1863. Relates the result of an inspection of the body of a man, set. from forty to forty-five, who died with the symptoms of ataxic locomotrice progressive. There was no morbid change in tlie brain or cord, except in the lumbar portion of the latter. The posterior columns here were of a grayish colour, tlie posterior roots were of a grayish red, much thinned, and resembling bundles of vessels, except at their entrance into the cord, where they n-ere flattened. The anterior roofs and columns were normal. In the grayish parts the nerve-fibres were found partly quite devoid of their contents, partly containing them only here and there, partly quite filled with them. Frieuiucii, N.—On Degenerative Atrophy of the Posterior Spinal Columns. Virchow's Archiv, xxvi, p. 391, p. 433 ; xxvii, p. i. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 184. The paper contains an account of six cases having the symptoms of ataxie locomotrice progressive or tabes dorsalis. Three proved fatal from typhoid fever. In these the pia mater all along the posterior columns was opaque and thickened, adherent to the cord and to the dura mater by narrow bands. The ligament, denticulat. was similarly affected as well as the pia of the lateral regions of the cord. The posterior columns were atrophied as high up as the lower half of the fossa rhom- boidalis ; they had a translucent grayish appearance, and were in two cases firmer than natural. The change was most advanced in the lumbar region, where it had extended to the lateral tracts. The posterior median fissure was obliterated. The posterior roots were thin, wasted, and stiffish ; the anterior normal. In the posterior the continuity of fibres was not interrupted, there was no fatty degeneration ; the axis-cylinders were preserved, but the medulla was coagulated, and there was much wavy connective tissue between the fibi'es. The hypoglossal nerves were in the same state, but there were also numerous corpora amylacea in the connective tissue. Friedreich refers these changes to a chronic septo- meningitis. The influence of hereditary tendency is remarkable. The six cases belonged to two families; their fathers were drunkards, and had certainly begotten their children while intoxicated. Two were male, four female. The duration of the disease varied from nine to twenty years. All treatment was unavailing. Friedrich infers from his cases that the posterior columns do not conduct sensory impressions, but are concerned in the co-ordination of movements ; and further, as the lower limbs were not materially wasted, that the centres regulating their nutrition cannot be intimately connected with the posterior columns, as well as that the mere non-exercise of the muscles (which extended in these cases overyears) cannot be essential to atrophy. Marotte and Trousseau.—0« Ataxie Locomotrice Progressive. L'Union, 67, 88, 89, 1862, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 33. In Trousseau's case the disease had lasted thirteen years. The lower extremities alone were affected, the patient could not stand, sensation in both limbs was very dull. The cord in the lumbar region was slightly atrophied, the posterior columns grayish, normally firm. The posterior