TREAT3IENT OF STIFF FINGERS. 329 point already mentioned in exercising the joint; he must perform, indeed, only such graduated, well calculated, slow, yet powerful motions, as can be arrested or increased at will. For such a case treatment by a carefully constructed machine is indispensable. Summarif.—Where our object is to restore the normal mobility of a joint, we may move the segments of the limb to the fullest extent, and cure the patient in a single sitting, for which purpose machines are rarely required; or we may execute the motions slowly, gradually, and certainly, for which purpose machines are indispensable, as it is only by their use that we can combine great force and extreme precision to- gether. After a month or six weeks, in cases of stift" knee or shoulder from immobility, we may employ the former method ; at a later period, or where there has been arthritis, we must depend on the latter; lastly, where there is still pain at the points already mentioned, we must not commence till it has disappeared, and the best way to hasten this result is to immobilise the limb in a good position. Extensive movements produce, in favorable cases, brilliant eftects. Let it be a precept in the radical cure to carry the movements to their xitmost limit. Malgaigue treated a friend for acute hydarthrosis; he had certain movements per- formed, the joint recovered its functions, and he considered him cured ; nevertheless the patient continued to limp, and consulted the author again in a few days; the knee was healthy, flexion extensive, though not complete. Malgaigne carried it to its greatest degree, till the heel touched the buttock ; the limping instantly disappeared, and the patient was perfectly and permanently cured. Aixplication to each joint.—Malgaigne explains tbe application of these principles separately to each joint. In stilF fingers, treatment by special machines is rarely required. The surgeon must first attend to the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation; he takes the finger in his hand, and exercises sufficient traction to elongate the ligaments, and at the same time cause flexion. " To what extent should the flexion be carried ? It is evident that the surgeon has sufficient force to overcome all resist- ance at once, but it is equally certain that arthritis Avould be the result. The pain excited by even moderate flexion is atrocious, much more severe than that of an amputation; yet I do not employ chloroform, for I am guided by the degree of pain, and the patient prevents my passing beyond the limits of really curative motion. This fact has not been published, and is known to very few ; yet you may talte it as an absolute rule. I seize then the diseased joint, and bend it till the pain can no longer be endured. Ton may rest easy that no patient will let you go too far, for even the most courageous man yields to the agony. Ton stop for a few minutes; you ask whether the pain persists, whether it increases or diminishes. If the latter, you may flex a little more, but you stop as soon as the patient again exclaims ; should then the pain last for more than a minute, you should conclude the sitting." Shoiild the pain persist or increase, you must keep the hand at rest till it has ceased. You may then again flex the finger, following the same plan and thus you may gradually progress, step by step, to complete flexion! After a time the patient himself should occasionally repeat the same motions. Eecovery is often promoted by the retention of the finger in