166 iiEPORT ON phactical medicine. supervened witliin twenty-four hours if the operation liad not been per- formed. She is now tolerably well, but with a contracted chest. In striking contrast witii this case, as it regards the frequency of the operation, while resembling it in the number of times it was performed, was the unique case of an elderly man, very recently under my care, and in which I tapped eight times in six weeks. The patient himself, a physician, earnestly and solemnly demanded the operation as a mere means of relief to intense distress. Cases in which the patients recovered wholly. —Twenty-nine out of the seventy-five patients got wholly well, apparently in consequence chiefly of the operation. The operation was performed gene- rally when severe symptoms were manifest, and Bowditch was called in consultation. In a few a great quantity of fluid was recognised by the physical signs alone, the rational having been slight; but as the disease was chronic, an operation was deemed necessary. In all these cases the operations seemed the first step towards a cure. The character of the Jluid, and its influence on the prognosis.—In twenty-six out of the seventy- five, serum was found, and twenty-one of these patients got wholly well. If after the first operation the fluid became purulent, an almost certain fatal prognosis should be made. Six such cases occurred. Four of the patients died, two were lost sight of, but when last seen were faihug. Pus was found at the first operation in twenty-four cases. Once it was of the consistence of honey, but was easily drawn through the exploring tube. Seven of these patients recovered wholly, seven died; nine were relieved one or many times, but they had either a long and tedious illness, termi- nating usually in phthisis, or a fistulous opening, or a still doubtful result. A sanguinolent fluid at the first puncture (and by that I mean a dark-red, thin fluid, evidently stained with blood, though not coagulating) I con- sider almost certainly fatal, and a consequence of some malignant disease of the lung or pleura. There were seven of such cases. In six the patients died. In one there was a doubtful result, but apparently fatal tendencies were commencing. If the fluid is found sanguinolent at the second or any subsequent puncture, Bowditch deems it of comparatively little importance to the prognosis. A mixture of hloodij purulent fluid at the first operation is usually fatal. Three cases, all fatal, occurred. A fetid, gangrenous fluid is very rare, only one case having occurred, and that fatal; but in this case infinite relief from horrible orthopnoca was ob- tained, and it never returned, though the patient sunk and died in a few days. Gangrenous pleura was found. Bowditch has operated once in pneumo-hydrothorax with temporary relief and comparative ease for several days. To theoretical objections against such a proceeding, he re- plies that as the operation can do no harm, and may give much relief, it is advisable in any case where the dyspnoea may be so great as to require it. Cases tvhere no fluid is obtained.—These, seven in number, occurred mostly in the earlier operations, and the failure was often owing, no doubt, to the cautious and slow manner with which the trocar was plunged between the ribs, carrying thus the false membrane of the pleura costalis before the instrument instead of piercing it. At other times, from an error of diagnosis, the operation was done, when instead of a fluid there was simply an unexpanded lung and thick false membranes on the pleura, causing as much dulness on percussion and absence of respiration