232 itKi'onT ON si ufiratY. free motion of the nnn, tlie capsule must have been i-uptured to a eou- siderable extent. Chlorolbrm was not administered ; tiie patient was seated on the ground, the head inclined somewhat to tlie right nide, ho that the arm could alno he brought somewhat towards tlie same side from its erect position, gentle traction Avith one hand followed and the reduction was effected. In a supplementarr note, ho mentions two further cases of ischiatic luxation of the femur, in which the method by flexion, adduction and rotation outwards, was employed; both were reduced with the greatest ease in a few seconds. M. Maisoniicuvp, researclies on Hie meclianim of cUslocalions of ihc jnio ('L'union Med.,' 1863; and 'Schmidt's Jalirb.,' vol. 119, ]). 71). This dislocation is not uufrequently produced by some accidental cause, such as gaping, its symptoms are striking, and its reduction somewhat difficult, yet its experimental study has been hitherto neglected, its pathological anatomy imperfectly known, and theories widely at variance with the truth have gained credit. The author has succeeded in effect- ing this lesion on the subject; after some practice he gained such skill as to enable him to produce it at least forty times, both in male and female, young and aged subjects. He imitated the three motions which ai'e now considered to cause it. Tlie lower jaw was first pressed forcibly down, causing the condyles to glide on the articidar eminences; then followed that motion which drives the condyles over them, and which is effected by a spasmodic contraction of the external pterygoid muscles or by external force. The energetic contraction of the eleva- tion of the inferior maxilla, which should then ensue, was imitated, so as to fix the dislocated parts in their abnormal position. It is necessary on the subject to fix the head and to press the jaw- repeatedly and violently downwards, until the muscles become yielding. Then it is kept down by means of the two thumbs, whilst the tips of the middle and index fingers are placed on the rami below the condyles, so as to press the jaw strongly forwards. One condyle usually passes at a time before the eminentia articularis. When both condyles have passed forwards, the chin must be pressed upwards for a time ; the dislocation is then often as unyielding as during life, presenting considerable diffi- culty in reduction. Patholor/ical anatomy.—The condyles are in front of the transverse I'oot of the zygoma; the coronoid processes arc completely surrounded by the tendons of the temporal muscles ; they are situated below, and scarcely ever touch, the zygomatic process; they do not in any way impede reduction, as supposed by Monro, Nelaton, and others. The capsular ligament is tense, but not ruptured; the external lateral ligament is tense and passes from behind forwards, instead of from before backwards ; the internal, lateral, and stylo-maxillary ligaments show considerable tension, which is increased by elevation of the chin. The interarticular ligaments arc attached to and follow the motions of the condyles. The temporal muscles are only stretched; the niasseters and external pterygoids are moderately tense; the internal very much relaxed. lirthietion.—To trace ont its difficulties, the author, in a series of