171 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. due to irremediable lesioa of the liver. He thinks that more success will be attained by resorting early to tapping, and relying more on tonic medi- cation, than by confining treatment to the use of diuretics and hydragogue cathartics. Keller, k.—On CEsojihat/ostenosis. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., viii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 35. Keller during the course of five years met with thirty-five cases of this condition in children from the age of six months to fourteen years; most of them were from two to four years old. Of this number, twenty-three were cured, three improved, four remained under treatment, five died. The cause of the stenosis was in all the swallowing of solution of caustic potash. The duration of the treatment varied from three months to a year and a half. Bougies were used to dilate the stricture as it became developed. A circumstance which may cause trouble is the swallowing of morsels too large to pass the stricture, such as bits of meat or stones of fruit. One case of death occurred from a cherry-stone getting into this position. Meissner, H. — Recent Contribidions to our Knowledge of Trichina Disease. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 45. Meissner alludes to several epidemic appearances of this disorder. Thefirst which e-xcited general attention occurred atPlanen, where twenty-five to thirty persons were attacked, four out of sixteen treated by Boliler andKonigs- dorfFer were seriously ill, and one died with prodigious dropsy and obstinate diarrhoea. In three patients a portion of muscle taken from the arm was found to contain living trichinse. The epidemic witnessed by Sendler in Magdeburg, which prevailed during five summers (1858—1862), and afiected3oo persons, is believed to have been of this kind {v. 'Year-book,' 1863, p. 167). A third, less extensive, but very grave outbreak, was observed by Simon and Herbst at Calbe. It affected over thirty-eight persons residing in four contiguous streets. Eight of these died. In one of the fatal cases numberless trichinse were discovered on dissection, and it was found on inquiry that all the inhabitants of this district obtained their supply of meat from the same butcher. lie denied ever killing any diseased cattle, but fell sick himself with his wife and daughter of the same disease, the wife dying of it. Of the thirty-eight, all but two had eaten pork in one form or other, and it is very possible that it was not thoroughly cooked. The severity of the disorder depends partly on the number of trichinae swallowed, partly on the health and capacity of resist- ance of the individual, and on other causes which may hinder or promote the development and migration of the parasites. Apart from differences thus occasioned, the symptoms, except in slight cases, are very uniform, indeed sufficiently so to enable a diagnosis to be made from them alone. The disease begins constantly with catarrhal irritation of the gastro-intes- tinal mucous membrane, with subtyphoid phenomena, a feeling of general illness, dulness, loss of appetite, nausea, and constipation. After a few days ccdematous swelling of the face suddenly comes on, with the feeling of tension, without notable redness, heat, or pain of the skin. There is now pyrexia, with thirst, heat, nocturnal restlessness, general pains in the limbs, unusual oppression of the chest, especially at the epigastrium,