hepoet on midwifery, etc. 814 the life of the child, lo cases; 17 living aud 4 dead children were thus delivered. Of 304 priniiparrp, 66 fell ill, aud 15 died, or 227 per cent.; of 609 niultiparaj, 76 fell ill, and 17 died, or 22'.3 per cent. The author thinks that the cause of this great disproportion is the much greater length of tlie labour in primiparte, aud hence the gi-eatcr pressui-e on the soft parts. Of the 142 cases, 45 were injured during the labour, either by natural or artilicial delivery. Of the children, about 22 per cent, died from diseases very similar to puerperal fever ; and as if to show the subtle influence of this miasma, a series of children of healthy M'omen quickly died from diseases of the lowest type, general septicaimia, septic peritonitis, &c. Prof. Ilecker believes that the opening of the hospital for the instruction of the students during the summer session, and for the midwifery pupils during the three following mouths, cannot have exercised any influence upon the origin and communication of the disease, for the arrest of which the most careful hygienic measures were adopted. GENEBAI; ANATOMY AND PHTSIOIOOY. Prof. Kussmaul reviews the question of the transmigration of the ovum (" Further Contributions to the Knowledge of the Transmigration of the Human Ovum," ('Mon. f. Geburt.,' October, 1862, and 'Brit, aud For. Med.-Chir. Eev.,' January, 1S63). The following case is first related. After suflering from acute pains in the abdomen and chest, with haemorrhage from the vagina, for a fortnight, a woman died in a state of collapse. After death a large quantity of blood was found in the abdominal cavity ; the uterus, pear-shaped, was enlarged; the cavity was lined with decidua, terminating at the os internum and at the Fallopian tubes; the anterior aspect and both sides of the uterus were covered with stringy growths of cellular,tissue ; the left ovary, very large, was close to the uterus ; both surfaces were covered with stringy growths of cellular tissue ; thin strong threads ran from the outer side of this ovary to the extremity of the Fallopian tube ; a w^ell-developed corpus luteum existed in the outer part; the left Fal- lopian tube, with the broad ligament, showed long and short free- hanging threads of cellular tissue. The rujlit ovary had no corpus luteum, but was also covered with threads; its outer free end impinged upon a tumour, the fruit-sac. The rUjlit tube was dilated in its outer half into a thick fleshy swelling. Between the right ovary aud right Fallopian tube was a cyst, with thin walls larger than a hazel-nut. The fruit-sac was as large as a goose's egg; it lay behind the right Fallo- pian tube and ovary, apparently grown to both. The walls of the sac consisted of peritoneum, a strong muscular coat, the chorion, and amnion. Within the sac lay a placenta with extravasated blood, and an embryo of more than two months' development. Now, since the corpus luteum was on the left side, and the tubal gestation was on the rujlit, at the fringed extremity, the ovum must have passed over from the left ovary to the right tube. The author thinks that the ovum did not pass through the left tube, across the