BINOCULAll OPHTHALMOSCOPY. 24.3 from the thirty-third to the thirty-seventh year to —; then to the forty-second year down to ^; with the forty-eighth year it falls to 21 ^; with the fifty-third to —, and in the foUowing five years to ao 20 ''^ Trom that time to the sixty-second year there is a diminution to —^ ; then to the seventy-second year to ; and finally, it continues to fall to — in the eighty-second year. The author is far from considering the uumber of his observations sufficient for perfectly certain deduc- tions ; they appear to him, however, to show— (i) The average acuteness of vision remains much the same during the first twenty-five years of life. P (2) After the twenty-fifth year it diminishes in a tolerably regular manner. (3) In old age it sinks to even less than half the original. (4) It varies considerably in different persons of the same age. A very interesting fact elucidated by the author's researches is that normal eyes possess a much greater acuteness of vision than that adopted by Snellen as the unit. The author found up to the twenty- fifth or thirtieth year S = ^ ; from that period it diminished with such 20 slowness that it was not till the age of fifty that it became = — = i. Binocular oplitlialmoscopy.—J. Z. Laurence (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, ii, 457) has simplified the instrument of Giraud-Teulon, by sub- stituting for the rhombs ordinary reflectors of silvered glass or specu- lum metal. By a proper iuclination of the reflectors, the double images can be made to coalesce (as in "Wheatstone's reflecting stereo- scope) without any additional prisms. Such an instrument can be adjusted to suit either the different separation of the eyes met with iu different individuals or any deviations of accommodation. E. B. Carter ('Lane.,' 1863, i, 264) is anxious to call the attention of the profession, and especially of students and beginners, to the advantages of Mr. Laurence's instrument over those in common use. " In using the monocular ophthalmoscope of Coccius or Liebreich for the indirect or iuverted image, in spite of abundant illumination and perfect definition, the objects seen have the appearance of being all in one plane. The vessels of the retina can be distinguished from those of the choroid by colour and direction, but not by any appreciable difference in their position. The depressions formed by choroidal atrophy or posterior staphyloma, and the elevations from subretinal haemorrhage or effusion, present colours which contrast strongly with those of the general field, but scarcely any appearances by which, prior