OCCUPATIONS. 459 testes remained undeveloped. Women, too, lose the same feelings, and very rarely bear children. There is also some reason to suppose that atrophy of the raammse occurs. Another symptom is muscular paralysis ; this is often of a paraplegic form, and it is possible that it and the ansea- thesia of the legs may be due to the direct local action of the vapour, for its high specific gravity causes it to accumulate in the lower part of the room. A numb condition of the hands is often noticed after they have been exposed to the action of the liquid. The prognosis of this affection is not very unfavorable. Those who leave the workshops recover; but as a rule, only imperfectly. In one establishment these effects have been prevented by placing a partition between the workmen and their work, with holes in it for their hands to pass through, these being further closed by impermeable muffs, fixed round the wrists. Three workmen sit side by side, and between them complete the whole operation. Phosphorus has been found very useful in this affection, in doses of from one to three milligrammes. The nature of the effects produced by sulphide of carbon has suggested the idea that the inhalation of its vapour might be useful in the treat- ment of hysteria and of nymphomania. Lucifer matches.—Dr. Bristowe (' Fifth Report of the Medical OfEcer of the Privy Council,' p. 162, Appendix) has visited all the establish- ments known to exist in England for the manufacture of matches. They are fifty-seven in number, and 2500 hands are employed. He could get authentic information of no more than fifty-nine cases of necrosis of the jaw having arisen from this occupation. The number is now probably not more than two or three annually. It is believed that the disease might be entirely prevented by effective ventilation, and by restricting as much as possible the number of workmen exposed directly to the fumes. A very striking instance of the good results which follow the observance of these precautions, is that of a manufactory in which twenty- four cases had occurred, but in which not a single example of the affec- tion has presented itself since these changes were adopted. Dr. Bristowe obtained no evidence that this occupation affects the health injuriously in any other respect. He does not quite accept the ordinary view that caries of the teeth is a necessary antecedent of this disease, though he thinks that it is preceded by, and dependent on, some local unhealthy condition. It does not seem to occur in factories in which phosphorus is used for purposes other than the making of matches. Carbonaceous disease of colliers.—M. Kuborn, in his work on the dis- eases of colliers (Paris, 186,3; ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 77, 1863), comes to the following conclusions :—(i) Particles of carbon are inhaled, and line the bronchia and air-cells; they also enter the tissue of the lungs, and are taken up by the radicles of the lymphatics, and carried to the glands. (2) The black substance expectorated by these men, and that found in their lungs, is really "fossil carbon," and is not deposited from the blood. (3) It is not injurious, like silica or the powder of steel; and it does not predispose to the development of phthisis, though it may lead to disturb- ance of the respiratory circulation and to the development of pulmonary emphysema, it may also aggravate bronchitis. (4) The so-called me- lanotic phthisis is a compound all'ection; it consists of various forms of