UEPOllT ON SURGKllY. E. Buscli, on chromic acid (' Deutsche Kliu.,' 1863, p. i). MM. Perria and Lnllemand, treatise on surgical anajsthesia (Pans, Chamerot). riiASTIO SUnOBET. The most important advance recently made lias been tlie introduction of osteoplasty, of some of the more important apjilications of which we gave an account in tlie ' Ycar-Look' for 1862. l)r. J. AV^olff has pub- lished the first part of an elaborate essay on osteoplasty in its relations to surgery and physiology, iji which he has collected all previous re- searches, and has further elucidated the subject by numerous well- planned experiments of his own ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, 183). His definition is, that " to osteoplasty belong all those bloody operations in which we implant bone or bone-producing tissue in some part of the bodv, with the view of causing a permanent existence of osseous tissue at that spot." He distributes the various operations of this kind into two groups: A. The first includes those methods in which we insert bones or portions of bones in some part of the body, where they are intended to heal-in and continue to live. (Osteoplasty by means of bone— osteoplastie osseuse, directe, proprcment diie.) Such methods are— 1. The insertion of a bone or portion of bone entirely separated from all its attachments. To this may be appended the im- plantation of teeth. 2. The insertion of a piece of bone which is yet partially adherent. Of this method there are two distinct modifications. a. The reinsertion of a piece of bone, which has been so se- parated as to leave a connecting bridge, into the spot to which it originally belonged. I. The transplantation of adjacent, and yet adhering, por- tions of bone. B. The second group embraces those methods by which we bring a tissue, from wliich bone can be produced, to some part of the body where it shall heal-in, live, and produce bony substance. (Osteoplasty by means of a bone-producing tissue—osteoplastie indirecte). Such methods are— 3. The transplantation of a periosteal flap left partially united to the neighbouring periosteum. 4. The transplantation of a periosteal flap separated from all its connexions. 5. The preservation of the periosteum with the surrounding soft parts in resections of bone—subperiosteal resection. To this method may be appended— a. Subcapsular resection. h. The scooping-out of bones—cvidement des os. 6. The transplantation of the osteogenous substance shaved off" from the periosteum. He criticises at length the various attempts which have been made to transplant portions of bone, both in man (after trepanning, &c.) and animals, and finds that in most cases the bone did not live, and