325 STIFP JOINTS. d.Hop.,' 1863, p. 497). A. SfcafFhorst, on exarticulatiou of tlie foot by Malgaigae'3 metliod (Gotting. Deuerlicb). Dr. Heyfelder, on resec- tion of the astragalus (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxiii, p. 67). Dr. ]Jradford, excision of the os calcis, cuboid, &c. ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' JS62, i, 38, loi, 171). M. Vanzetti, on excision of os calcis ('G-az. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 52.3), and cases (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 357). Extremities.—K Billroth, extraction of piece of v?ood from the fore- arm (' Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' i, 54). C. Hilter, anatomical studies on the joints of the extremities ('Arch. f. Path. Anat.,' xxv, 572 ; xxvi, 484). M. ibebout, on artificial substitutes in congenital affections (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, pp. 110, 162). Dr. Martini, on- artiiiciallimbs ('Schmidt's ' Jahrb.,' vol. 115, p. loj;). OETHOP-^DIC STTRGEET. M. Malqaignc on stiff joints (lectures on ortliopsedic surgery). The following remarks deserve attention, for cases in which the joints become more or less stiff are very common, and too often neglected by the medical attendant. False anchylosis frequently results from a limb being long retained in one position, sometimes from arthritis, sometimes from the after-efl^cts of fractures or dislocations ; for example, a man has the lower end of the radius fractured, a bandage is applied, and the fingers are kept motionless and extended; forty days later, the surgeon uncovers the limb, the fractured ends are united, but the patient is much more helpless than directly after the accident, for all his finger- joints are stiff". The patient, as the rule, loudly complains ; to this the surgeon replies that all will go well in time. The end not imfrequently is, that the patient becomes permanently disabled, for the natural mobility of a joint can only be restored by motions performed at a proper time and to a proper extent. Time alone renders the case in- curable. Other errors, which are too often committed by surgeons, are to direct the patient to move the limb himself, or to recommend certain baths, the treatment in the former case being insufficient, in the latter useless. Diagnosis of false from true anchylosis.—Many surgeons, and in par- ticular Bonnet, have declared this diagnosis impossible ; Malgaigne has, however, maintained for twenty years the contrary, and taught his pupils the differential diagnosis of the two forms. If, for example, in a case of osseous anchylosis of the bones of the elbow, the surgeon attempts to forcibly extend the forearm on the arm, at the same time pressing, with his knee against the projecting angle, pain will only be felt at the points directly compressed. If, on the other hand, the union be fibrous, the same extension will cause pain at points which are not at all com- pressed, but which are being forcibly stretched; the pain, besides, is most acute. Prognosis.—It is absolutely necessary for success that the surgeon liimself should carry out the treatment, and that the patient should be willing to bear much pain and trouble. " An English lady was attacked \ a few months ago, by slight arthritis of the wrist. She was declared to be cured at the end of fifteen days; although she could not move the joint, her medical man affirmed every week that it would get all rii^ht •