116 REPORT ON PIUCTICAL MEDICINE. change for tlie better. (3) In the violent paroxysmal mania of epilepsy and general paresis, in menstrual mania, and acute melancholic paroxysms, a single administration, or a few full doses at short intervals—have elfectu- nlly dispelled the paroxysm. The eflect is thus of two sorts—(i) Im- mediate: in a few minutes, one to five generally, a patient who has just been shouting, chattering, dancing, swearing, thumping, &c., becomes settled and quiet, sits upon a seat, and perhaps fails into a sound sleep. And (2) gradual: the patient becoming, as the hypernoia is thus from time to time warded off, more rational, companionable, and useful. Whilst changes in psychical manifestation are thus very obvious and striking, concomitant physical phenomena are very obscure or wanting. Only in two cases have I observed a very decided change in the character of the pulse, whicli became slower, weaker, and in one slightly irregular. In two other cases, in which a slight over-dose was given, a semi-comatose condition was induced, with complete adynamia, partial ptosis, the accumulation of frothy saliva, pallor, slight affection of breathing and pulse,—phenomena almost exactly resembling those immediately preceding an epileptic paroxysm. (Ill) The dose has varied from n\ij to lll^vj ; v\v is the most con- venient, and if the effect is not promptly established, a repetition every quarter of an hour effectually secures it. The effect is rather evanescent, and has been observed in some cases to disappear within an hour; but if a slight degree of hypernoia recurs, a subsequent administration is apt to have a more potent effect. The interval may vary according to the nature and exigencies of the case and the effect produced. It may be ad- ministered either by the mouth or by subcutaneous injection. For the latter the dose recommended is v\v combined with Di^xxx of water. (IV) The advantages of the drug in comparison with other calmatives antl hypnotics are—(i) The rapidity, certainty, and simplicity of its effects. (2) Its manageability and freedom from any cumulative property. (3) The absence of any disagreeable concomitant or consequent physical dis- turbance, which most other analogous modes of remedial treatment possess. (4) Its small bulk, want of colour, and its miscibility. (5) Its want of repulsive smell and taste. (6) Its not impairing appetite and digestion, but rather improving both. Besides its great value as a simple quieter in cases of mania and melancholia and in maniacal and melancholic paroxysms it renders still more important service. McLeod has no doubt, from his experience, that it has the power promptly of staying cases running on to chronic insanity on the one hand or exhaustion and death on the other, and of obtaining simply and satisfactorily results which arc at present aimed and arrived at by boiling a patient in hot batlis, half drowning him in douches, narcotizing with opium or morphia, nauseating with tartar emetic, exhausting with purging, roasting with blister, or de- bilitating with lancet, leech, or cup. RoBEKTSON, C. L,, M.B.—Remarks on the use of Digitalis in fhe Treat- mentof Insanity Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 3rd. In cases of general paresis, during the second stage, that of mental alienation, with symptoms of maniacal excitement, Robertson's experience leads him to regard digitalis, in 5ss doses of the tincture, two or three times a day or oftcncr, as quite specific. It calms the excitement and cnabks