NERVOUS SYSTEM. 91 in animals by section of one crus cerebri. lu a case, however, put on record by Dr. Stiebel, where the left cms was extensively diseased, its diameter being more than twice that of the right, the head was always turned to the right, and there was no hemiplegia. JoNJJS, T.—On some points in connection with Cerebral Hcemorrhage. Brit. Med. Jour., Feb. 7th; July 3jth ; Nov. 7th. ^ Jones reports on 40 fatal cases occurring at St. George s Hospital. As regards nge, he finds that the majority of cases (13) occur between the ages of 40 and 50, 10 between 50 and 60, and 9 between 60 and 70. Males are much'raore liable to the disease than females (39 to 11). His conclusions from careful pathological examination of the cases are—(i) that cerebral hcemorrhage, when associated with renal disease, is almost always found to be dependent upon rupture of one or more of the cerebral arteries, in consequence of certain morbid changes having taken place within their walls; (3) these changes in the vi'alls of the vessels are induced by the altered state of the blood, the effect of advanced disease of the kidneys; (3) the enlargement of the heart is the immediate effect of the renal disease, conjointly, perhaps, with the alterations in the coats of the vessels. Premonitory" symptoms were more frequently present than absent. They were present in about 46, and absent in 36 per cent. Their duration varied from a few minutes to three months.^ They mostly consisted of abnormal sensations, especially headache. With regard to the pupils, Jones states that they are altered in the majority of cases of cerebral hremorrhage. Of the modifications, contraction is the more frequent variety. Contraction of the pupils coexists with paralysis, of which hemiplegia is the most frequent form. Paralysis is more frequently associated with dilatation of the pupils, and that more frequently ^e?iera^ in its extent. Alterations of the pupils bear no relation to the seat of the paralysis when partial. Contraction of the pupils almost always depends upon lesion in the membranes; dilatation upon lesion in the substance of the brain, when sufficient to exert a considerable degree of pressure. WiLKS.—Ca&es of Tubercular Meningitis in Adults tvith remarks on the Obscurifg of the Early Symptoms. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 13th. Wilks remarks that there is often an irritability about the subject of tuberculosis which contrasts in a most marked manner with the torpor of the fever patient, and to this he draws particular attention, as he has found it of the utmost service in attempting to distinguish between the two disorders. When these are at their height, the difference is often very striking, the one with inflammation of the brain being distressed by the slightest movement; he coils himself up in bed, is peevish, and wishes only to be left alone. At the same time the surface of the skin is often remarkably irritable, so that the patient calls out when touched, often feels cold, and shivers when his skin is very hot. In the case of fever there is none of this irritability; the patient will rather aid the examining pliysician if he be able to do so. Wilks states that he is inclined to believe in the rapid formation of the tubercle, and that the pyrexia attendant on its development is not, as often supposed, the result of the irritation which it has produced,