3G0 IIRPOIIT OX JIIDWirJillY, ETC. tive rate of proportion of special cases to their sums total; tlie writers referred to—as indeed, most others—have not separated premature births from abortions properly so called ; hence the impartiality of these statistics — compiled for an entirely dill'erent purpose — cannot be appealed to, and yet the conclusion drawn from such erroneous premisses has been, till now, suffered to remain uncliallenged. Dr. Alfred Hegar (Darmstadt) publishes a paper on " The Pathology of the Human Ovum, and on Abortion in the first months of Preg- nancy." This he believes to be of very frequent occurrence, not less than one abortion taking place to every eight or ten births at the full term. The author jjrotests against the too hasty manual extraction of the ovum, which induces irregular uterine action, and frequently gives rise to obstinate haemorrhage and much subsequent mischief. ('Mon. f. G-eb.,' supplementary vol., 1862.) Dr. Pritchard records a case of abortion produced on the fourth day after dilatation by tents of the Laminaria digitata (' Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,' vol. v, p. 198). Three cases of abortion, with pro- fuse hsemorrhage, are reported by Dr. llamsbothara ('Med, Times,' ii, 1863, p. 89). Dr. Matthews Duncan, " On some results of Imperfect Deliverance in Abortion or Labour, especially Fetid Uterine Discharges." ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' Jan., 1863.) Five cases are here recorded, all of which were marked by symptoms of uterine disease occurring after abortion or laboui-, local pain, puru- lent or hoemorrhagie discharges, occasional metrorrhagia, patency of the OS uteri, and hypertroiAy, or a state of imperfect involution of the uterus ; followed, after variable periods, by the expulsion or removal of portions of the decidual or ovuline structures. In two of the cases,—both of retention of the ovum,—no fetid discharge occurred for some weeks, in one case seven months, after all symptoms of pregnancy had disappeared; in two other cases the fetor—which was afterwards intense—was delayed until part of the decidual struc- tures had been retained five months. This absence of fetor, which renders such cases the less likely to be correctly diagnosed and treated, may be accounted for by the expulsion of the entire ovum, or part of it, without the decidua, or accompanied by only a portion of the latter structure. In such cases the remaining decidua may retain its uterine connections for an indefinite period, and then being thrown ofi" may be retained in utero, and at last become putrid. "When the cause of abortion is disease of the decidua, especially if there be hajmorrhage beneath it, or when uterine contraction is strong, then persistent adhe- sion and retention will be evidently less likely to occur than when the decidua is healthy and uterine contractions are feeble. It is generally believed that the retention of part of the fully developed placenta is rapidly followed by putridity ; but in one case mentioned by the author, the incomplete removal of the placenta,—part of which came away a month after delivery,—was not followed by fetor.