hepoiit on suroehy. 252 convergence would not excite suflicient accommodation in hucIi oases. Strabismus is, therefore, most frequently met with in moderate degrees of hypormetropia (relative hyperiuetropia). It may be slated, as a general rule, tliat tlic less tlio range of accommodation, and tlie greater the angle between the corneal axis and visual line, so much the lews will be the degree of hypormetropia necessary to excite squinting. The iixation of near objects, and especially of those placed to one side, has often been adduced as a cause of squinting. Donders is convinced that strabismus is not produced in the emmetropic eye in such a manner; but he admits,' that in cases of hypermetropia such a habit might i'acilitate its occurrence. This form of strabismus generally commences about the age of five; it is at first periodical, occurring upon efforts at distinct vision. Diplopia does not occur, probably because the deviation only occurs during attempts to distinctly see some particular object, to which alone the attention is accordingly directed. In most cases the squint becomes at an early period constant and concomitant; the deviation is, as the rule, permanently restricted to one and the same eye; the movements of the eyes are easy, the range of lateral mobility of both eyes increased to the inner side, diminished to the outer side, although one is always deviated, the other constantly directed in the right direction. Both internal recti must, therefore, be contracted. This contraction of the internal recti, at first dynamic, becomes organic when the squint becomes constant; it is a consequence of excessive action, with relaxation of the antagonistic muscles ; there is no pathological change of tissue. Fixation induces increased convergence even when the strabismus has become permanent; after tenotomy the same increase is often noticed. As squinting may be prevented in the first stage (that of periodical squinting), so after an operation a recurrence may be obviated by convex glasses, which neu- tralize the hypermetropia. The deviated eye soon diminishes in acute- ness of vision, and when the amblyopia has attained a high degree, fixation becomes excentrical. Hypermetropia has not been recognised by earlier authors as a cause of convergent strabismus. (3) Strabismus cliverrfens is, as the rule, connected with myopia. The - divergence is, however, not induced actively, as is the convergence in hypermetropia, but passively, owing to the increased length of the optic axis, which impedes the globe in rotating. The mobility both inwards and outwards is at first afi'ected. There is insufficient mobility inwards, when the visual lines cannot be made to intersect at a distance of two and a half inches (=an angle of 51°). Now, since the angle between the visual line and corneal axis is, in cases of myopia, very smaU or even negative, still greater convergence of the corneal axes is required than in hypermetropia. The insufficiency just mentioned induces in some cases muscular asthenopia. If deviation of an eye (outwards) occurs during great exertion, as a consequence of such insufficiency—a circumstance which sometimes diminishes, sometimes increases, the troubles of the patient—relative strabismus divergens is present. The visual lines are properly directed to objects at a distance; only one eye is employed on work close at hand. There is always relative strabismus divergens, even when the convergence is uualtered,