141 CmCULATOllY SYSTEM. The \iIcerations are almost always in the valves of the left ventricle, occa- sionally in those of the right; they result from an inflammatory molecular decay of the endocardium, and become by the roughness of their surface the seat of fibrinous deposits, whicli are subsequently carried away by the circulating blood, and get arrested in different parts. The symptoms of this acute, ulcerous endocarditis are various; they may either be purely ataxo-adynamic, with great depression, heat, rigors, somnolence, delirium, dry tongue, bronchial catarrh, meteorism, and diarrhoea; sometinies en- larged spleen, or ecchymoses and sndamina, presenting by their continuous course the greatest resemblance with exanthematic typhus; or the phe- nomena may be more like those of pyaemia, paroxysmal rigors intervening among the ataxo-adynamic manifestations. In both cases jaundice, more or less severe, often occurs, and has been sometimes mistaken for the primary disease. The progress of this is so rapid that its changes can sometimes be followed from day to day. In cases where the heart is not diseased it is not unusual to find affections of tlie aorta or other vessels, dilatation, atheroma, ulcerations, or aneurisms. In other cases various organic diseases are found, as pneumonia, renal degeneration, cancer, or a traumatic injury, but the connection of these with the emboUc process is much less frequently demonstrable. In spontaneous thrombosis there are more frequently precursory symptoms than in embolia; the condition gets gradually worse, and improves less rapidly. When embolia of the cerebral arteries occurs, obstruction of the carotid or its branches occasions sudden giddiness, loss of consciousness, syncope, deprivation of intellectual and motor power, blunting of sensibility, sometimes involuntary stools, and but seldom vomiting. This attack is, if death does not take place, transitory, and leaves behind one-sided palsy of the body or amaurosis, besides loss of speech and disorders of the intellect. Recovery may be complete when one carotid trunk is obstructed, but is always imperfect when the obstruction is situated on the further side of the circle of Willis. When the vertebral or basilar arteries are obstructed, loss of consciousness and intellectual disturbance more rarely occur, but giddiness and vomiting and sensory disorders are more frequent. The attacks are less sudden, and improvement also is more gradual. Recovery, as far as existing records show, is only possible when the collateral circulation is established before forty-eight hours have elapsed from the period of the obstruction. The diagnosis of cerebral embolia from cerebral htemorrhage or throm- bosis is often diflicult, and by no means clearly to be made. The history is our chief guide as regards cerebral haemorrhage, as the symptoms are in both affections essentially the same. The subjects of apoplexy before the attack have a strong constitution and good health, and receive warnings in the form of determinations of blood to the head, giddiness, drowsiness, and sense of formication in their limbs. The subjects of embolia, on the contrary, have already been depressed by acute or subacute heart affec- tions, and the attack ensues without premonitory symptoms. The dia- gnosis of pigmentary embolia, where comatose and convulsive attacks take place and the cerebral function is suddenly abolished, is determined by tthe presence of pernicious ague fever. The age of the patient is on im- portant item for consideration ; acute rheumatism and endocarditis are diseases of early life, while apoplexy belongs mostly to the later periods. i