GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 189 E. Davies strongly recommends Tieman's bullet-forceps Brit. Med. Jour.,' 1863, i, 539). He can, from ample practical experience, testify to its efficiency. It is graduated to sustain a weight of fifty pounds ; • and however deeply or firmly a leaden bullet may be driven into a bone, a sufficient space for its teeth to hold by is created from the mere passage of the bullet. It is constructed with long and stout teeth, set outward like the incisors of a mouse, and will seize upon and hold a leaden ball when even a quarter of its diameter is within their grasp. Bloodletting in chest wounds may, according to W. Detmold (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, i, i), be replaced by another method. He says, " I would strongly recommend to you a remedy, which, while it gives you all the advantages to be derived from copious and repeated venesection, is free from all its injurious results; this remedy consists in applying ligatures to the limbs by a circular pressure to the upper parts of the arms and thighs, tight enough to check superficial venous circulation without afiecting the deeper arterial influx of blood. By this means, which is easily put into execution, you may temporarily withdraw any amount of blood from circulation without depriving the wounded of a single drop, the want of which might seriously affect his recovery; for when the momentary and imminent danger to life has ceased, that is, -when the pulmonary haemorrhage has stopped, you gradually loosen the ligatures and allow the blood which you have retained for a while harm- lessly in the extremities to re-enter the circulation." Dr. P. Smith questions the advisability of resection in gunshot or other injury of the knee-joint ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, i, 100). " Will there not be more hope for safety if the uninjured ligaments are left undisturbed, and merely the loose fragments removed through large depending incisions ? Let every fragment be removed, and take care that the incisions traverse the synovial sac to its utmost limits, and I am persuaded that we have done our best. Nature can more readily repair it in that shape than she can unite the wound left by exsection. By exsection we also destroy all remaining ligaments of the joint, and render necessary the most perfect rest and most perfectly adapted . splints. What do we gain by exsection ? Merely the removal of shat- tered bone, the smoothing ofi" of rough surfaces, and the extirpation of the synovial sac. All this, or its equivalent, is easily done by free longitudinal incisions and dexterous use of the forceps and gouge." T. Longmore, report on gunshot and sabre wounds of invalids sent to Port Pitt during the years 1860-61 ('Army Med. Eeports for 1861,' p. 442, Lend., 1863). Cicatrices—M. Panas, on faulty cicatrices, and their treatment (Paris, A. Delahaye). J. H. James, on the deformities consequent on burns, and on the peculiar nature of the cicatrices (• Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 246). Blue pus.—A.. Lucke ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iii, 13^; 'Deutsche Khn.,' 1863, 129). Dr. Bartscher ('Deutsche .Klin.,' 1863, 97). Erysipelas—A. Despr^s, treatise on erysipelas (Paris, A. Dela- haye), and statistics (' GJ-az. des Hop.,' 1863, 41). H. Dannenberger, nitrate of silver in erysipelas ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1863, 191). Ulcers.—li. Ulmer, compendium of helcology (Wieu, Braumiiller).