DROWNING. 449 large ns the pnlm of the hand. They were all broiccii; the evidence of their existence appears to have been the separation of the cuticle. In some of the corpses the cuticle of the foot had become detaclied, carrying with it some of the toe-nails. The skin of these parts of the surface was of a crimson colour, and that between the vesications was of a rose- pink tint, especially near the vesications. The hands were the parts moat burnt. In one child the left hand was terribly burnt, the last two phalanges of the fingers being absent, and the remaining ones protruding through the charred tissues. The areolar tissue beneath the skin was of a brilliant red colour, the intensity of which varied M'ith the hue of the skin. In two of the children fissures existed along the back of the i-ight forearm and wrist, which were four inches or more iu length, and three or four lines in depth ; they were straight, with clean edges, as though cut M'ith a knife ; some of the tendons were exposed, but apparently were not injured. These fissures contained no blood. On the faces of some of the children there was a small quantity of adipose matter, which had apparently burst through the skin in a melted condition, and had afterwards solidified. Tiiese injuries were apparently produced, not by flame, but by intensely heated air. The night-dresses of the children and the bedding of the room were not much burnt. HANGING. Prof. Maschka, in his paper on medico-legal errors (in the 'Prag. Vjschrft.,' 1863, vol. iii, p. 13), makes some observations on death from hanging. He records the case of a woman who was found with her throat cut, and with a mark on her neck of a.yellow colour, and in a hard, parch- ment-like condition, evidently produced by a rope. Her husband asserted that he had found her hanging, and had cut her down some hours before she made a second and successful attempt at suicide by cutting her throat. It was argued by certain medical jurists that this could not be true, because, if it were, the mark of constriction would have disappeared before death. Maschka, however, states that he has in three instances observed the mark on the neck to remain visible for several days after resuscitation from hanging. He agrees with Casper that pallor of the face is no proof that hanging was not the cause of death. He also remarks that exudations of blood beneath the mark produced by the cord, though frequent and extensive in those who are executed by hanging, are exceptional under other circum- stances. Fracture of the cervical vertebrte is also never found by him in other than judicial cases. He ascribes them both to the violent twist given to the neck by the executioner. The absence of exudations of blood beneath the mark on the neck is therefore not an evidence of the hanging having been post-mortem. He quotes a case recorded by Kocker ('Wien. Med. Woch.,'1862, Nos. 33, 34), where a murk on the neck, caused by an iron chain after death, presented a considerable extravasation of blood, which was coaguhited. DROWNING. Prof. Maschka ('Priig. Vjschrft.' 1863, vol. iii, p. 13) argues with Casper that the cutis anserina is no positive proof of death having been caused by drowning. He also thinks that it is not present more fre- quently in tlie bodies of healthy persona who have died suddenly than in 2\)