8 HEPOHT ON PHYSIOLOGY. tliaii tlie spot at wliicli Pasteur made liis experiments at Montuuvert). riiials which contained an infusion of iiay, boiled for nn liour and her- metically sealed during the act of boiling, were opened by a file heated to redness, son)o at lieucluse, and others withiu a deep and narrow crevasse in the glaciers of Maladetta. They were then immediately reclosed over a lamp, and examined after three or four days separately by himself at Pouchou, and by MM. Joly and Musset at Toulouse. Tlie results agreed perfectly. The phials contained dead bacteria and monads in prodigious quantity; a few living si)ecimen8 of Bacterium (irticulalum, some ama>bas, vibrios, tufts of mycelium, &c. Pouchet found also that i -Jo cubic decimetres [jSS cubic inches] of air collected at the same time, tlie atmcsphere being calm, did not contain a single egg, a single spore, or a single particle of organic debi'is. Eaulin put to the test the growth of Aseophora nigrans in media consisting entirely of mineral matter. He found that its growth might be as rapid in tliese as in organic solutions, and that it proceeds regularly until some essential element fails. The most useful mineral substances are, in the order of importance, phosphorus, potassium, mag- nesium, sulphur, manganese; these were employed in the form of phosphate of ammonia, carbonates of potash and magnesia, sulphate of ammonia, carbonate of manganese. The absence of phosphorus from a mixture of the whole would reduce the resulting growth from twenty grammes to half a gramme; of manganese, from twenty to five. The quantity of these elements which sufficed formed but a fraction of the total weight of the plant which might be produced—less than one fiftieth. The abundant development of the mucedo demanded the union of a sufficient number of simple bodies, tliese being required in very different weights. He could not find that any free nitrogen was absorbed by the plant in its growth. III. BLOOD. SciTMiDT, A.—J^urtlier Ohseyvations on Filrin and the Causes of its Coagulation. Eeichert und Du Bois Eeymond's Archiv, 18^2, pp. 420—469, and 533—564. LiSTEH, J.— On the Coagulation of the JBlood. Croonian Lecture, 1863. Proc. of Eoyal Society, vol. xii. p, 581. TniPT, L.— On the A)nmonia-contcnts of the JBloocI, the Urine, and the Expired Air. Henle and Pfeufer's Zeitschrift, vol. xvii, p. 167. SiiEE, A. H.—On the Artificial Production of Mhrin from Allumen. Proceedings of lloyal Society, vol. xii, pp. 399 and 505. Panum, p. L.—Experimental Researches on the Transfusion, Transplan- tation, or Substitution of Blood, in its Theoretical and Practical Belations. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxvii, pp. 240—296 and 433—460. Schmidt carries further his studies on coagulation (see '1 oar- book,' 1862, p. 20). He especially seeks to establish—(i) the relations