033 HEPOUT on SUllGKRY. To the question wliefcliei- most cases—iu fact, uoiirly every case—of talipes canuot be reduced witliout division of the tendons in question, Mv. Barwell replies, " We may not have quite sufficient data at present to determine the exact proportion, but at all events we have sufficient to show that, under the circumstances which I have endeavoured to portray, the tendons in question should never be divided, except in tlie very rare cases in which no other means Avill succeed in reducing the deformity. Therefore we must return to mechanical treatment for the elongation of those muscles whose size renders this possible, and which have tendons so placed as to cause their section to be destructive of muscular action. _ " All the best forms of instrument hitherto invented act on the prin- ciple of confining the foot in a shoe or sabot, which, by springs of various shapes and materials, bend or twist the Umb in a direction con- trary to that of the defoi"mity. There are several grave objections to the application of force through the medium of a shoe—the impediment thrown in the way of walking, the pressure on the limb, &c. But the greatest inherent and insurmountable defect is that the antagonistic force is not applied in the delicate and discriminative manner emplo)'^ed by nature ; the foot is treated as a clumsy whole, to be twisted inward or outward upon a stiff turnboard, to which it is bound for the purpose." Mr. Barwell explains his plan of treatment in the following manner:— " In fact, however, when any of these constituents change their position, and thus the whole foot its form, the only rational indication is to use some means of supplying the overbalanced muscular power in its proper place and direction, until the organs themselves regain their due force; and this latter can only take place when the foot is alloiced its liherti/. I believe myself to have fulfilled these indications by the following method, which, though simple in itself, is difficult to describe. The only necessary apparatus is strapping-plaster ;* a piede of tinned iron about an inch broad, as long as the patient's leg, and provided at its upper end with a wire loop; a few india-rubber springs of one-quarter-inch cord of various lengths, and furnished at each end Avith a steel hook ; and some eyelets, with the pincers for fixing them. " First, a piece of the plaster is cut into a trapezoid form, in such wise that its broadest part, adherent to the sole and side of the foot, shall follow with considerable accuracy the course and insertion of the weakened tendon. The narrower part shall lie on the side of the foot, a little before or behind one or other of the malleoli, as the case may be ; it is not to adhere, but to be folded on itself with the sticky sides together, and through the double thickness an eyelet must be inserted. The foot must now be held by an assistant as nearly as possible in the normal position, and be evenly strapped from the toes backward, leaving out the ends into which the eyelets are driven. By these first-named pieces of strapping the insertion of the muscle or muscles is repre- sented. " We now turn to the leg. A piece of strapping rather broader than * Emplnstnun rosina-, spread on stout twilled calico.