FOKEIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH. Mamma.—VvoL Soluih, on cancer ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1862, pp. 27, &c.). M. Nelaton, adenoid (' Gaz. des H6p.' 1862, p. 554). M. Demarquuy, tumour of butyrous appearance (ib., 1863, p. 17). ABDOMEIf. J. Poland, a collection of cases of foreign bodies in the stomach and the intesiincs (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' 3rd ser., vol. ix, p. 269).— Tlie symptoms of a foreign body in the stomach are ver}'' various, and depend in a great measure on differences in tlie size, form, and irregu- larity of surface. In many cases it may be retained ■\\atbout incon- venience, or pass thi'ougb the bowels without pain or trouble. But in general there is a sense of uneasiness and pain in the stomach, and if the body be large or heavy it may produce a feeling of weight and fulness. After a time, vomiting, hasmatemesis, and dyspepsia, are wont to ensue. If the foreign body is composed of iron, or of other material soluble in the gastric juice, more or less of it will pass off with, and sometimes greatly discolour, the motions. The diagnosis may be pre- sumptive or direct; the former from the actual swallowing of the substance, the immediate sense of suffering in the stomach, the sub- sequent pain iu the same region, vomiting, haematemesis, and dis- coloured stools; but the latter only can be fully satisfactory. In many cases, however, it is quite impossible to detect a foreign body in the stomach by even the most careful manipulation, especially where the parietes are thick ; even where a body is felt, it may be impossible to determine whether it is in the stomach or the arch of the colon. Course,—(1) Foreign bodies may be vomited up. (2) They may escape into the intestines, and pass off with the fcBces. (3) They may, as in the case of pin-swallowing, traverse the organ, and appear at different parts of the body. (4) They may remain quiescent in the stomach for a long period, and the patient die of other causes. (5) They may cause gastritis, indigestion, slow emaciation, exhaus- tion, and death. (6) They may induce adhesion of the stomach to the abdominal parietes, followed by ulceration and the formation of a fistulous aperture. (7) After inducing ulceration, they may perforate the peritoneum, producing violent inflammation and death. (8) They may at once, from their sharpness, perforate the stomach, inducing collapse and rapid peritonitis, such as is observed in rupture of the viscera. In 39 cases, there were 12 deaths and '27 recoveries. Of the 12 deaths, 5 were from perforation, 5 from exhaustion, i from ob- struction, and I from suicide, owing to the intensity of the pain. Of the 27 recoveries, the foreign body was vomited up in 2, in 1 the pins passed out at different parts of the body, in i the body remained quiescent in the stomach, iu 14 it was passed per anum, and in r gastrotomy was performed.