ItEPOllT ON PllACnCAL MEDICINE. of ammonia in Ilje blood, and on the condition in wliich it exists in that Ihiid. He finds that the qnantity of ammonia in the blood and other fluids increases with the lapse of time after the removal of the kidneys, and especially that the quantity of free ammonia increases considerably. The amount of free ammonia at the end of forty-eight hours was nearly double the whole amount at the end of twenty-four hours. As the toxic cficcts were much more marked at the end of the longer period, PetrofT ascribes them to the presence of free ammonia in larger quantity. In- jections of ammonia in sound animals cause only transitory phenomena of irritative character, because the substance is quickly carried off by the kidneys. If injected into animals' veins whose kidneys have been extir- pated, it causes symptoms just like those of urseraic poisoning, especially convulsions and coma. Cameron, J. C, M.D.—On the Ti-eatment of Acute Hepatitis in its sup- imrative stages. Lancet, June 6th. Cameron protests against the doctrine that positive evidence of pointing shonld always be obtained before any attempt should be made to evacuate the pus artificially. He affirms, on the contrary, that when we have just grounds for believing that abscess of the liver exists, we ought not to lose a day in evacuating it by puncture, and that we are both justified and safe in endeavouring to hit upon it with a trocar when deep-seated, avoiding the gall-bladder and large veins. He has seen men die with denuded and carious ribs, worn out by fever and diarrhoea, while the surgeon has waited for weeks to see the abscess point. The following directions are given:—" When the operation has been decided upon, but there is no particular prominence in any region of the liver, but merely a general fulness of the side (and this, perhaps, only distinguishable by going to the foot of the bed, and comparing from thence the right and left out- lines of the trunk) a very careful examination may guide us as to the likely spot. "VVe should trace all the intercostal spaces, and, if any super- ficial oedema be found, the abscess may be expected under it, and close at hand. The slightest intercostal fulness should be noted, and the patient desired to breathe deepl}', while a finger is fixed with gentle pressure flat along the spot. If the breath be caught precisely under it on deep in- spiration, that is the spot for puncture ; and in the absence of local fulness, the place where the inspiration is most impeded must be our guide, with due attention to anatomical relations. It is remarkable how often one can determine the exact seat of the greatest pain in breathing, &c., within the size of half-a-crown or less. Three cases are related in illustration, which seem certainly to prove that deep puncturing of the liver may be performed wdthout injurious results, and even may apparently act as a discutient of existing inflammatory swelling. In one remarkable instance, after about two ounces of pus had escaped from the canula, which had passed "some inches" deep into the side, it unfortunately slipped out, and could not be replaced. No harm, however, ensued, and the man made a good recovery. BuDD, G., M.D., F.R.S.—On the influence of a long course of Nitric Acid in reducing the Enlargement of the Liver and Spleen that sometimes results from the Syphilitic Cachexy. Brit. Med. J., Sept. jth.