REPORT ON l'UA.CTIC:VL MEDICINE. IlABEUsnoN, S. 0., M.D.—On Idiopathic Anccmia. Lnncet, May 9th, i6i\\. llnberlioii enumerates tlie ciiuses of nnteniiana—(i) Those which interfere with the proper re-formntion or the renewal of the blood, as diseased glands, mesenteric or lymplintic, &c. (2) Causes operating directly on the blood itself, as the effect of physical agents, mercury, water, alkalies ; so also the actual loss of blood in the different forms of hajmorrhage ; here also we may mention albuminuria, and perhaps ague poison. (3) Excessive waste, the demand upon the nutritive power of the system being greater than the compensative supply ; thus, although the blood may be re-formed properly, that renewal is not sufficient to compensate for the constant loss which takes place from exhaustive discharges. He poses the question whether some forms of anajmia may not be correctly attributed to di- minished power in the sympathetic centres rather than to the organs •which they influence. A case is related, ending fatally, where the symp- toms were frequent vomiting, occurring sooner or later after food ; aching post-sternal pain, increased by food and vomiting ; a burning sensation in the shoulders and back, pallor and emaciation. While taking strychnia gr. yV, she was attacked with very severe pain, and such sudden extreme prostration that it seemed as if perforation had taken place. With small doses of morpliia she improved very much, and became able to take animal food with appetite. About nine months after her discharge she returned to the hospital, blanched, emaciated, and extremely feeble. No pain was now felt after food; there was no vomiting, and no evidence of disease of the stomach. The urine was normal, and the blood-globules appeared healthy under the microscope. She was, however, unable to take food, even nutrient enemata could not be borne, and she gradually sank and died. Except some fatty degeneration of the heart, there was no morbid change. She had resided in a damp, unhealthy locality, and had been scantily supplied with the necessaries of life. Habershon does not find that pepsine is of service in these cases ; small doses of mix vomica or strychnia are apt to cause faintness; but quinine and iron given in pills, with a little aloes and henbane, often agree exceedingly well. In the worst cases no treatment avails, the stomach becomes apparently incapable of tolerating the presence of food, even when the patient can be persuaded to swallow it; and in proportion as the nervous exhaustion increases, the morbid state of the stomach is also aggravated ; the one reacts upon the other, each in- creasing the other's defect. GliLTNEAU.—Epidemic Angina Pectoris. Gaz. des H6pit., ir4, 117, 120, 1862. The " Embuscade" corvette, with a crew of 250 men, during several years was rapidly passing and repassing between the cold latitudes of Chili or California and the hot climate of Mexico and central America. These sudden changes of temperature, together with the careless mode of life of the men and other injurious external influences, had previously induced attacks of neuralgia, scurvy, and colic. After some days of stormy weather, in the neighbourhood of St. Helena, angina pectoris ap- peared. Most of the persons attacked were anremic and scorbutic. The pain always began at the sternum, and was more violent in proportion as I