121 CIECULATOUY SYSTEM. ToMjrASi.—L'Union, 114, 1863. Records a case of progressive paralysis of the tongue, palate, and hps, occurring in a man tet. 48. It had existed eight montlis when the patient came under treatment. At tlie end of three weeks, by daily Fara- dization, the power of voluntary motion was restored, thougli the voice liad still a nasal twang, and the letter r was pronounced imperfectly. Two months later the improvement was still maintained. CiaCULATORY SYSTEM. :Marey ; Mach, E. ; DucHEK, A.; Betz, Y.—On the Pulse. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 87. Marey's instrument (v. 'J. de la Physiol.,' April, i860) is said to be much simpler and more convenient than Vierordt's. The varying amount of vascular tension seems to be the chief cause of the varying curves which the instrument describes under different circumstances. The fre- quency of the pulse M. believes to depend (i) ou the influences which affect the heart through the nervous system; (2) on the amount of resist- ance offered to the heart's contraction, which is in a direct ratio to the arterial tension. Duchek (' Wien. Ztschr.,' xviii, 1862) approves of Marey's sphygmograph, and describes the results of his observations with it. He contends that dicrotisra of the pulse is in no way dependent on the heart or the great vessels, but upon each individual vessel, according to the laws which regulate the motion of waves in elastic tubes. Myrtle, A. S., M.D.—Lancet, May 30th. Records a case of ana2mic sphacelus, as he terms it. A military man, strongly built and of sanguine temperament, cet. 46, healthy looking, and having enjoyed uniform good health in spite of seven years' active service in the tropics and in the Crimea, complained of the following affection. The fingers of both hands, especially those of the right, are pale and cold; the right little finger, from its point to its middle, feels cold as ice, and its ungual phalanx is blue—looks as if dead ; under the tops of each nail, and extending across, there is a purple line about one tenth of an inch in breadth. The thumbs and the rest of both hands are natural. The last phalanx only of the right little finger is devoid of sensation. The cars are much colder than natural, have a mottled appearance, and exhibit on the outer and posterior part of each helix a number of ecchy- mosed patches. Heart's action normal, but weak. Five days later he passed a sleepless night, having been kept awake by severe and constant burning pain in the feet and toes; the feet were pale, cold, and clammj'', the extremities of the toes being bluish, and tender to the touch ; the fingers, except the little one, were well, and the ears nearly so. The ex- tremity of the right little finger became gangrenous, and was removed by Mr. Walter Coulson, who was satisfied by careful examination that there was no disease in the arteries. Myrtle is of the same opinion, and thinks that all the symptoms arise from—(r) feeble action of the heart, and (2) lowering of the vitality from deficiency of nerve force. Citrate of iron and quinine seems to have been most beneficial as a remedy.