19 CIRCULATION AND RESPIRATION. sues when the cord is divided about the third or fourth dorsal vertebra, (3) On irritating the upper segment of the cord thus divided in the neck, no increase in the pulse is produced ; on irritating the lower seg- ment the diminished action of the heart is again raised to or above its normal amount. The nerves in question, therefore, leave the spmai cord between the seventh cervical and the fourth dorsal vertebrte. (4) If, in animals weakly poisoned as above described, both the me- dulla oblongata and the peripheral portions of the divided vagi are irritated, there is produced a diminution of the blood-pressure, and retar- dation or ceasing of the pulse. The influence of the cord, therefore, 13 controlled by that of the vagi. Bezold believes that there is thus es- tablished the existence of a new central organ for the heart's motions, situated either in the medulla oblongata or in the brain, and that the nerves from it, passing through the lower cervical and iirst dorsal ganglia, reach the heart as the middle and inferior cardiac nerves. This central organ produces, according to him, three fourths of all the impelling force of the heart, and by its abnormal excitement its con- tractions may be raised to sixfold the power which they possess through innervation by the cardiac ganglia alone. It stands in reflex connection with the sensitive cerebro-spinal fibres, and through it come to pass all quickening and strengthening of the pulsation which is pro- duced by pain, or terror, or other psychical influences. _ Various poisons, especially digitalis and strychnine, the vagi being divided, in- crease and strengthen the heart-beat by stimulating this system to increased activity. The first part of Groltz's paper consists of a proof that the vagi are t1i-j only sensitive nerves of the heart. If the apex of the exposed heart of a frog is drawn forward, a small band, containing a vein, which forms a sort of bridge between the two surfaces of the pericardium, cut through, and acetic acid applied to the posterior surface of the heart at the spot at which the vense cavse enter the sinus, a strong contraction of the whole body of the animal takes place. This result always occurs. The section of one pneumogastric nerve diminishes it, the section of both prevents it. If, by the irritation of one pneumogastric, the heart is brought to a standstill, a reflex motion of the limbs is stiU produced, in the way above described, through the other. A frog was poisoned with woorara, one hind limb having been previously separated from the body except by the sciatic nerve ; on applying the acetic acid to the sinus, the detached limb only was convulsed. Thus, the sensi- bility of the heart is maintained when the motor nerves are paralysed by the poison, as C. Bernard and KoUiker have shown is the case in respect to the sensitive nerves of the skin. In a new-born kitten, pinching the auricle produced reflex movements of the limbs after the vagi were divided ; this one experiment, therefore, would indicate that in mammalia the heart possesses other sensitive nerves besides the vagi. Goltz examined also the reflex paralysis of the heart from irrita- tion of the sensitive nerves. Various kinds of irritation, especially throwing the creature on the ground, have been noticed to produce stoppage of the heart in the frog, and the result has been generally