EI2P011T ON PfiACTICAL MKDICINE. 112 pnrnlytien. Dipsomnnia is a form of this disordm Perversion of hunger and thirst shows itself in various ways, among which may be mentioned a longing for human flesh, which has caused some lunatics to commit murder that they might gratify this longing. Iodide of potassium is said to have proved beneficial in cases of loss of appetite, opium in cases of immoderate. KoNTNY.— On the use of Opium in Insanity. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., N.F.V., 32, 1862. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 117, p. 208. Kontny records tln-ee cases in which the continued use of opium in gradually increasing doses was of great advantage. The daily amount taken was ultimately twelve grains, the evening dose being increased much more than the morning. The treatment was continued from two to three months. Two of the patients were affected with illusions, one with acute melancholia. Duncan, J. F.—Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb., 1863. Kecords three cases of syphilitic affection, producing in the first epilepsy differing in no respect from the ordinary form of the disease, and suc- ceeded, after years of suffering, by symptoms of mental derangement; in the second case epilepsy did not occur at ail, but there was decided insanity ; in the third, insanity took the precedence, and epilepsy followed. The form of mental derangement was different in all the cases. In all a modified mercurial treatment was advantageous, quinine being asso- ciated with the mercurial. EuLENMEYETi; FocKE.—On the emjjloyment of Opium in Psychiatrie. Arch. d. Deulsch. Gef. f. Psych., iii, i, 2; iv, i, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 78. Erlenmeyer states that opium acts best in melancholia, especially in so- called active melancholia, a form which at first sight might be confounded with mania on account of the violent outbreaks of the patients. These are occasioned by the sense of precordial distress, which drives the sufferers about in a restless state. Opium often relieves this, but not invariably. It is necessary to take account of the age and sex of the patients. Women are more prone to suffer from gastric disorder at the commencement of the treatment than men, but they bear large doses better, and the results are more successful. Younger patients recover far more easily and quickly than older, but even this beneficial effect of youth ceases earlier in males than in females. In chronic (passive) melanchoha there is not much to be expected from opium, and in pure mania it is also ineffective. In cases of insanity with fixed delusions opium will probably produce considerable improvement if the delusions are of a melancholy character; but if they are the reverse, if they are of the mngnificent stamp, opium treatment gives no results. In general paralysis, idiocy, and dementia, the drug is of no avail. Focke states the following indications for the use of opium:—(i) The case should be free from any profound anatomical lesion of the brain or cranium as the cause of the disease; therefore opium is a priori contra-indicated in all cases wliere injuries of the head, tumours, meningitis, with its conse- quences, disease of the cerebral vessels, determine mental derangement