KEPOUT OX MIDAVIFKRY, T.TC. 392 The average per-centage of cures will be found to be 66; the highest and lowest pei'-centage being 78 and ^5 respectively, but if the results of operations performed within the last four j'ears only had been given, it would be seen that the per-ccntago of cures would be even still higher. "If this result be coinparecl with that of cases of ovarian dropsy left to themselves, it will be seen that of 100 patients aftecteil ■with progressive ovarian disease, 90 may be expected to be dead within two years if nothing beyojid palliative measures be adopted ; while from 60 to 70, may, by experienced operators, be fairly expected to be saved from death by ovariotomy." Dr. HcAvitt (op. cit.), p. 590. There is good reason to believe that the mortality after the operation will annually become less, and that operations in the last stage of the disease Avill be comparatively rare. Mr. Hutchinson, in recording a successful case in a woman, aged sixtv- five,—probably the oldest on whom the operation has been performed,— shows the value of turning the patient on the side opposite to that from which the tumour grows, as soon as the cyst is partially emptied. The advantages obtained by this are tliree. First. The greatly increased facility of dragging out the cyst. Secondly. The much diminished risk of any cyst-fluid or blood passing into the peritoneal sac. Thirdly. Tlie completion of the operation much more quickly, and with a smaller incision. In cases of polycistic tumours, the side position is especially desirable, since these can be much more easily reached and punctured in succession, or, in some cases, in this position, the tumour might be cut into freely, without any attempt at emptying it being made by the trocar. 'Brit. Med. Journ.' vol. i, 1863, p. 320. Mr. Spencer Wells relates the case of a patient upon whom ovari- otomy was twice performed. 'Med.-Chir. Trans.,' vol. xlvi. The propositions the author believes to be established by this ease are: (r) That ovariotomy may be performed twice on the same patient without any unusual difficulty. (2) That it may be advisable to make the in- cision, with the second operation, at some distance from the cicatrix left after the first operation. (3) That whenever one ovary is removed, the opposite ovary should be carefully examined, and that in all penetrating wounds of the abdomen, the divided edges of the peritoneum should be brought accurately and closely together. The author believed this case to be unprecedented, but he has lately learned that Dr. Atlee, of Philadelphia, has performed ovariotomy suc- cessfully upon a patient from whom Dr. Clay, of Manchester, had re- moved an ovai'ian tumour, sixteen years before. Mr. Spencer Wells records 2 5 cases of ovariotomy—18 of these were performed at the Samaritan Hospital, 14 recovered, and 4 died; the remaining 7 occurred in private practice, 6 of these recovered, and i died, • Med. Times and Gaz.,' vol. i., pp. 267, 314, 587, and vol. ii, pp. 560, 585.