178 REPORT ON SURGERY. butes death partly to distension of the right side of tlie heart, partly to paralysis of the muscular tissue of that organ, caused, as lie suj)- poses, by a sedat ive action of the air; he employs electrical irritation of the pncnmogastrics, with the view of preventing the latter effect, imagining that dilatation of the chest would to some extent remove the air from tlio heart. A. Mercier (ib., p. .321) docs not admit this expla- nation ; the vis a tergo necessary to drive in the air with suUicient force to cause mechanical distension of the heart does not exist; and as to the idea of a paralysis caused by the air, it is well known that the heart of an animal will beat for a considerable period after its removal from the chest. Mercier published in 1837 and 1838 (' Gaz. Med.'), and has since repeated, an explanation which appears to agree better with the facts. Death from the injection of air or any other gas occurs with rapidity, because the pulmonary circulation is interrupted, because the brain is not supplied with blood ; indeed, the condition is just such as would be induced by a prolonged syncope. This interruption occurs, not because the heart is distended or unable to contract, but because the frothy mixture on which it acts does not obey its efforts, but passes with great difficulty, or not at all, through the capillaries of the pulmonary artery. Such a difficulty, indeed, results, first, because the gaseous molecules have little affinity for the walls of the capillaries. It is a fact perfectly established in physical science that the passage of a liquid through very delicate tubes is rendered more difficult by its mixture with a gas. Secondly, because the impulse caused by the con- traction of the heart is only very partially transmitted to the more remote ramifications of the pulmonary artery, owing to the compressi- bility and elasticity of the gas. Thirdly, because at the moment of a contraction, the valves are not so exactly closed by a gas as by au incompressible liquid; and for that very reason a reflux takes place with greater ease from the ventricle into the auricle, and from the latter into the veins. The author has found in the inferior vena cava air which had entered spontaneously by the superior. It is also possible that the viscous condition of the blood is increased or diminished by particular gases. In accordance with his theory, he considers that if death takes place, as in a prolonged syncope, because the brain is too long without the necessary amount of blood, it \TOuld, perhaps, be pos- sible to delay this termination till the heart could liberate itself, pro- vided the whole of what little blood passes through the left side of the heart, notwithstanding the obstruction, could be carried to the brain. For this purpose he recommends—(i) to keep the head low: the experiments related in Bouillaud's report prove, indeed, that animals die with greater rapidity when the head is elevated. (2) To compress the axillary arteries and the abdominal aorta, or in case of need, the femorals. A dog, into whose heart he had passed a considerable quan- tity of air, passed four times from death to life, and from life to death, according as he pressed or not on the aorta (one axillary artery had been ' ligatured); it ultimately recovered (' Gaz. Med.,' 1838). He con- siders that electricity facilitates the circulation in the lungs, and should therefore be used when at hand. Instruments.—J. "Weiss and Son. A catalogue of surgical instruments,