UEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 46a COLOURS. Dr. Guy (' Fifth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council,' Appendix) gives a long account of the uses and effects of tlie arsenical colours. Dr. llassall ('Lancet,' 1863, p. 294) describes the purposes for which arsenite of copper is used in the arts. He also draws attention to the Brunswick green (a mixture of chromate of lead and Prussian blue), the effects of which on the health are not yet known. FOOD. Mr. Gamgee ('Appendix to Fifth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council') gives some most important information as to the state of the meat which is eaten in this country. His paper is one which should he read, and which it is impossible to condense into the space at our disposal. In considering the effects produced on human beings by the ingestion of meat, it is important to distinguish between diseased and decom- posed flesh. It is probable that, under certain circumstances, a poison is developed in the carcasses of animals similar to that the effects of which are observed in dissecting-rooms. This poison may have relation to pre- vious disease, and especially to the parturition fever, but it is not certain that this is the case. It is destroyed by the process of putrefaction. The diseases which occur in the animals used for food are divisible into three great groups. The first class consists of the epizootic diseases, including the pleuro- pneumonia of horned cattle, the epizootic aphtha, and the variola ovina. Mr. Simon thinks that it is not at all certain that eating the flesh of ani- mals affected with disease of this kind is immediately injurious to man. If it were, irrefragable proof of it would have presented itself ere tiiis. But it is still an undecided question whether chronig ill effects may not result when such meat forms a considerable part of the food taken. Boils and carbuncles have been very common of late years ; at a convict estabhsh- ment where diseased cattle, and especially those affected with lung-disease, are eaten in large quantities, as many as forty or fifty cases of these affec- tions occur among 1520 convicts in a month. The second class consists of the enzootic (anthracic and anthracoid) diseases. The evidence as to the effects of consumption of the well-cooked flesh of animals which die from these diseases is still imperfect, but there is positive proof that it may endanger human life. In 1840, on a farm in Aberdeenshire, a two-year-old quey was attacked with the quarter- ill, as was supposed. It was at once slauglitered; the flesh appeared to be healthy, except that circumscribed ec'chymosed spots were seen scat- tered over it. The same day part of it was cooked for dinner ; two per- sons who did not partake of it remained well, but ibe nine who ate it were all seized with symptoms of poisoning, suffering from vomiting and diarrhoea, attended wi'th great prostration. Two of them died; the others recovered. In a few days, the two men who slaughtered the cow were attacked with phlegmonous erysipelas of the arm. One of them had a large malignant pustule on one knuckle ; he had cut himself at tliat spot while skinning the cow. In the other case no local cause could be dis-