12 llEI'OUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. disturbance to pass, (a) The removal of the cliicf part of ilie fibrin has no perceptible inlliienco on the sceretion of urea. The fibrin, there- fore, is not tlic source of urea. (3) Witliiu forty-eight hours of the removal of the greater part of the fibrin from the blood, it is present again in normal quantity, or in excess if inflammation have arisen. This is equally the case when the blood of an animal has been almost entirely replaced by the whi|)ped blood of anotiier of the same kind. (4) The fact that defibrinated blood may take the place of ordinary blood, in respect to all the functions of the body, favours the idea that fibrin is only a secondary product of cell formation and nutrition, and not tlie material from which the tissues are formed. (5) The substi- tuted defibrinated blood, provided the animals be of the same kind, maintains its vitality and constitution as long as the natural blood ; the corpuscles undergo no special variations in amount, and the secretions exhibit no disturbance. (6) The blood of the ruminants will tempora- rily restore the functions of life in an autemiated dog; but it soon decomposes and is cast off tlu-ough the kidneys and bowels, and in the form of internal exudations. (7) Among the products of the decompo- sition of the blood of the ruminant in the vessels of carnivorous animal urea is not included; the secretion of urea, indeed, is altogether suppressed. Thus Bischoft"s view, that urea is formed from the tissues, and not directly from the blood, receives support. lY. DIOESTIOX. TiiiRT, L., and Meissnee, G.—Eesecirches on the Dic/estionof Albium- iious Substances. JSTos. 5 and 6. Zeitschrift fur liationelle Medicin, vol. xiv, pp. 78 and 303. ScuiFF, M.—Preliminar;/ Gontrihiitions to the PhysioJog;/ of the Pancreas, the Spleen, and the Stomach. Archiv fiir Heilkunde, iii, p. 271. ScniFF, M.—0,j the Function of the Spleen. Schweitzerische Zeits- chi'ift fiir Heilkunde, vol. i, p. 201. Patv, F. W.—On the Immunity enjoyed hy the Stomach from heiny (liyested hy its own Secretion during Life. Philos. Trans., 1863, p. 161. Thiry's experiments are in continuation of Meissner and Biittner's, reported in the ' Year-book ' for 1862, p. 5. He confirms the statement that albumen, on digestion with artificial gastric juice, is split into parapeptone, which is insoluble in water, and into certain bodies soluble in water ; also that the metapeptone of albumen, like that of fibrin, is only a transient product of the splitting, and on continued digestion passes into peptone, towards which it is a step. In reference to the tin-ee forms of peptone yielded by fibrine, Thiry found that the solution of albumen yielded none of the so-called a peptone, but that it always contained h peptone and c peptone. He further confirms that the same changes wdiich are eftected in albumen by digestion with hydrochloric acid and pe])sine are produced also, but in a longer time, by boiling in water ; the metapeptone, however, is not converted into peptone. Alkalies oppose the effect of boiling.