4..50 REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. tliose who linve died from disease, wliile CnBper holds the contrary opinion. Mnschkn has frequently seen it developed some hours afterwards, wiien it did not e.\ist at the time of death. Still less importance is to he attached to the soaked appearance of the hands and feet, since, if the hody of a person immersed during life he removed soon after death from the water, this soaked appearance is ahsent, wliile it shows itself in bodies already dead, if they be kept in fluid for some time. The presence of sand or mud under the nails is also worthless as evidence of death by drowning. Dr. Mayer ('Bayer, iirztl. Intell.151.,'—'Schmidt,' Jan. 1863, p. 84) relates the following case:—Two persons, digging in a shaft, came upon a subter- ranean collection of water; the fluid rushed into the shaft so quickly that they were with difiicuity saved. One of them, who never lost his consciousness, said afterwards that he resisted swallowing the water as long as he could, but that at length he was compelled to do it, as he was holding his breath under water, and making only expirations. Soon after his recovery he vomited a quantity of sandy mud. The other, a girl, evidently sucked the same substance into her air-passages, for slie had a severe attack of pneumonia, and during the first four days mud was contained in tiie expectoration. Houze de I'Aulnoit ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 234) made an experiment to test the question whether fluids can enter the stomach after death. He placed some blue fluid in the mouth of a corpse, and left the body for three hours in an upright position. The cardiac orifice of the stomach was then ligatured, and on opening the organ none of the blue fluid was found in it. The oesophagus was equally free from its presence; but a blue tint in the larynx, trachea, and bronchi, showed that it had pene- trated into these passages. The result of this experiment, therefore, is the same as that attained by others who have worked at the same subject. Liman remarks (' Casper,' xxi, p. 193) that this question is not of much practical interest so far as adults are concerned, for in them it is compara- tively rare to discover substances of a specific nature in the stomach. But infants are often found in privies, when the only sign of death by drown- ing is the presence of faeces in the stomach. He has therefore instituted some experiments, which were made on newly born infants. He em- ployed in these investigations, a mixture of garden-mould and peat-sand in water. The presence of this fluid in the corpses experimented on was dis- covered not merely by the colour, which had been found iiisuflicicnt for the purpose, but also by the grittiness of the particles of sand. The bodies of the infants were placed in this fluid, lying on their back, with the face up- permost ; the mouth was usually open. The results he obtained were that in sixteen experiments the fluid was detected seven times in the stomach, and in fourteen cases it was present in a greater or less degree in the oeso- phagus, trachea, and throat. Only twice were all these parts entirely free from its presence. The time during which the body lay in the fluid was without influence on these results. In two cases he found the fluid in the stomach when the body had been only two days immersed, and the same thing was observed even when the body was simply dipped m the fluid and immediately removed; while in other subjects, which lay some time in the fluid, this was not found to be the case. The degree of de- composition was also found to be immaterial; in two bodies which liad been preserved in an ice-cellar fluid liad entered the stomach, but in a