ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 429 to an ineroased action of the sphincter pupillfp, and the myopia to conti'action of the ciliai'is muscle. 3klr. E. Hart (' Lancet,' vol. ii, 1863, p. ,36) notices the employmenl, for ophthalmoscopic purposes, of paper saturated with the extract, the strength being so adjusted as exactly to neutralize the atropine paper of Mr. Streatfield. Cases of ophthalmic disease in which it has been employed are recorded by several observers. Mr. Nunneley (' Lancet,' vol. ii, p. 476) has administered it to dogs and cats ; he remarks that, though it lias no more taste than an ordinary haricot bean, animals, and especially cats, manifest a great repugnance to eating food with which it has been mixed. ji Ci/iisus Lahurnum.—Mr. Popham (' Dub. Quar. Journ.,' Ixix, p. 248) records the symptoms produced in several children by eating the seeds of this plant. They were of an acro-narcotic character, but wei-c not severe, except in the case of one boy aged six years. In him the fii'st eftects produced were giddiness and pain in the head, with sensa- tions of heat and constriction in the thi-oat. After a time severe pain in the stomach came on, with collapse, and vomiting of a dark grumous matter; convulsive twitchings of the muscles of the face were also ob- served, and the pupils were dilated and sluggish. An emetic was administered; sinapisms were applied to the epigasti-ium and to the spine, and ammonia was given; narcotism, however, came on, attended with slowness of the respiration and stertor. "When roused, he was testy and impatient, and soon relapsed into stupor. Under the external and internal administration of stimulants he ultimately recovered. Terebinthacece. An instance is related ('Gaz. Hebd.' 1863, p. 5. ' Journ. de Med. de Toulouse') of the] violent action of the Rhus toxicodendron. A gardener, who had merely been destroying some of the young shoots of the tree, was attacked with headache, erysipelatous swelling of the face and of the eyelids, and finally with an eruption of phlyctente over the whole body. Aumtitiacece. M.V. C. Symes ('Pharm. Journ.,' vol. v, p. 162) says that lemon- juice, which has been exposed in the winter to a temperature of 150'^, can be preserved for months without spoiling; lemon-juice so prepared during the summer months will not keep. It is necessary that the bottles be hermetically closed while the fluid is still hot; but common corks, covered with beeswax, suffice for this purpose. Papaveraoece. Dr. Matthiessen and Mr. Foster ('Phil. Trans.,' 1863, p. 345) give an account of their investigations on narcotine and its derivatives. "Wertheim, founding his opinion on the composition of the volatile bases, obtained by distilling narcotine with potash, had maintained that there are three varieties of this substance, which he named methyl- narcotine, ethyl-narcotine, and propyl-narcotine. Matthiessen and