298 heport on surgery. of cases, and that in such the terminal portion of the bowel will be found more frequently on the right side than in well-developed and well-formed children, or ifc may, perhaps, have assumed some median j)osition. Under these circumstances the attempt to open it in the left groin would necessarily fail, and the life of the patient be probably sacrificed. It appears, therefore, to me to be a more certain and equally scientific practice to open the colon in the right groin ; for if the de- scending colon pass in that direction it can be opened ; and if otherwise, the crecum can readily be secured; and, Avithout doubt, under both cir- cumstances, an equal relief will be afforded to the patient. The diffi- culties of the operation in the right or in the left groin are the same, and the certainty of finding the large intestine on the right than on the left is much greater." Discussion (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 463, 186.3, p. 16, <fec.). H. F. Witt ('Diss, de atresisB ani cong. anat. path.,' Kil., 1859) figures two cases; one in which the rectum ended in a narrow canal, which ran along the penis close to the urethra, and opened just behind the meatus ; and a second, where it ended in a canal as large as, and opening into, the membranous urethra. M. Bourcart, on the position of tbe sigmoid flexure of the colon in the infant (' Graz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 705). Diseases.—IMr. Bryant endeavoured to show in 1859, that haemor- rbage from tbe bowel is in children a very certain indication of the existence oi &polyims ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 499). " Since that date many similar cases have fallen under my care, and I must confess that it'is a rare thing for me to meet witb any instance of haemorrhage from the bowel in children, which is not to be explained by the presence of sucb a growth. These growths are generaUy found in children under ten years of age. In some cases the discharge of blood from the bowel is constant, and tlie patient will be brought with its clothes stained and its buttocks smeared with a bloody mucus. In these instances the polypus will generally be found to be within, if not protruding from, the sphincter. In other examples occasional discbarges of blood will be observed, although not to a great extent, and wiD generally accom- pany and follow the act of defecation. In others, again, the hemor- rhage will take place independently of any such process. In a patient exhibiting any of these symptoms a careful local examination should be made. Much care is required in the examination, as the growth is readily passed by and overlooked. The best plan is to sweep the finger, passed well into the rectum, completely round the walls of the bowel. The polypus will thus be dragged from its attachment, and its pedicle will be made tense, thus arresting the attention of the examiner. By a careless examination it is almost sui-e to be overlooked, unless very large. When it is once detected, the cure is not diflicult. The remoATil of the growth is the only correct treatment, and this may, in a large proportion of cases, be readily done by simply hooking the finger over the pedicle and breaking it off. I have never kno-WTi any evil result from this practice, not even hajmorrhage, the process of lacerating the pedicle preventing this occurrence. In other instances the polypus may be brought out externally and ligatured. If the pedicle be thick,