65 GENEllAL SYSTEM. symptoms have disappeared, as it had to be given before this event. Tlie patient's general health and strength should be promoted as much as possible. Makston, J. A., M.D.—Ol/servatmis upon St/philis in its manifestations as a Constitutional Disease. Med.-Chir. Trans,, vol. xlvi, p. 83. Marston remarks that a cutaneous syphilide, extensive but superficial, denotes a milder degree of constitutional infection ; while the discrete and hjcaUzed morbid processes, affecting the deeper tissues of the skin and mucous membrane, have the opposite character of a severe degree of syphilitic infection. To the question what relation the severity of the primaries has to those of the later symptoms, Marston replies—(1) that the greater the induration, and the longer the period during which pri- maries remain unhealed, the more certain will be the severity of the con- stitutional infection ; (2) that the amount of ulceration, &c., of the pri- mary sore stands in some relation to the worst and more intractable forms of secondary affections—e.ff., the pustular, ecthymatous, rupitic, the unhealthy ulcerations, nodes, and gummatous tumours. Constitutional syphilitic disease often shows itself after years of latency during conva- lescence from some other disorder, as pulmonary, or some endemic com- plaint. Several cases are related of intra-cranial syphilitic affection, in which the cerebrum appears to have been decidedly involved. He notices also the occurrence of cases in which the symptoms of pulmonary phthisis were very marked, but in which the appearance of syphilitic disease, with or without specific treatment, coincided with remarkable improve- ment. With regard to the influence of a warm climate upon cases of constitutional syphilis, Marston states that the Mediterranean climate is most mischievous during the warmer six months of the year. Over and over again, during the hot months, symptoms of constitutional syphilis have refused to yield to any treatment until the winter set in, and as frequently almost they proved so intractable as to require invaliding to Great Britain, where the patients regained their health often rapidly, without any treatment, or with the aid of the same measures as had failed entirely in the relaxing climate of the Mediterranean. DlDAY, P.—On reneived Syphilitic Infection. Arch. Gener., July, Aug., 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 194. As a rule, syphilitic contagion does not affect the same individual twice. But if a person has recovered from a previous syphilis under treatment, he may contract a second by fresh exposure to contagion. Diday has observed twenty cases of this occurrence in his own practice in the course of six years. The minimum period for the complete cure of svphilis he puts at twenty-two months. Reujiont.—Deutsche Klinik, i6-i8, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, ^ p. 196. States that his experience during the last four years has confirmed his previous as to the effects of the sulphurous thermae of Aix-la-Chapelle in syphilis. lie finds that they have no specific action against constitu- tional syphilis, but that in some cases they cure tlie so-called residuary C