HEPOBT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 164 present a serrated border. They are often associated with ulcers on the epiglottis, vocal cords, and posterior internal part of the larynx. Lewia ('Med. Centr. Zt.,' xxx, 83, i86j) allirms that ulcerations of the postero- internal Willi of the larynx are of the greatest value in forming a diagnosis between syphil is and phthisis, even when auscultation and percussion leave us in doubt. Both pain and hoarseness niiiy be absent, and there- fore laryngoscopy is never to be omitted when there is any suspicion of tuberculosis or syphilis, and the diagnosis is at all uncertain. Lewin states that he has never been deceived in any diagnosis founded on laryn- goscopic examination. Loss of the arytenoid cartilages, one or both, from necrosis, produces aphonia and defective closure of the glottis, with diffi- culty of expectoration. We tlien observe that the posterior wall of the larynx has fallen in, especially when one cartilage only is lost; that there is a want of the usual phonatory movements, which is most remarkable in the case just mentioned, but becomes less so when the mucous membrane in this situation is much swollen or indurated; and, lastly, in some cases large, deep, ulcerated excavations may be seen at the posterior part of both upper and lower vocal cords. Syphilitic idcers of the larynx, according to Tiirck, are mostly situated on the epiglottis; when they last long they penetrate deeply, and perforate, or even destroy, the cartilage more or less completely. The ulcers are surrounded with a red area, and their margins are mostly swollen, by which, as well as by the depression of the epiglottis, the view into the lai-ynx is impeded. They do not occasion, generally, much dysphagia. Ulcers also occur on the vocal cords (upper and lower), the aryteno-epiglottic folds, or the posterior wall of tiie larynx. When shallow, they heal without leaving recognisable cicatrices, but when deep they cause distortions of the vocal cords, stenosis, and adhesions at the anterior angle of the glottis. The pharynx is rarely free when the larynx is attacked. Quasi-condylomatous growths from the mucous mem- brane are also the result of syphilis. Tiirck mentions a case in which these grew on both arytenoid cartilages and one of the upper vocal cords, and were so large as to cover the inferior cords, yet disappeared com- pletely by mercurial inunction. Balassa records two cases of oedema of the glottis, one the result of hereditary syphilis, the other consecutive to typhus. In the first there was considerable swelling of the epiglottis and extensive ulceration, in the second serous submucous effusion of the epiglottis, the vocal cords, and the aryteno-epiglottic folds. In both tracheotomy had to be performed. Ileyer reports the case of a serai- idiotic boy, set. 8, whose speech was extremely imperfect, but sud- denly improved to a very great extent after the administration of a cold douche while he was in a warm bath. The improvement was permanent. Lente records two cases in which aphonia ceased permanently after inha- lation of chloroform or ether to ansesthesia. Tiirck distinguishes different paralytic affections of the muscles of tlie glottis—(i) Phonic paralysis of the constrictors.—Either the whole glottis may remain open and gaping during attempts at phonation, or only a part, viz., the anterior or liga- mentous glottis. During swallowing, however, the glottis is completely closed, and dilatation also is properly performed. This paralysis is always bilateral. Its causes are catarrh, tuberculosis, and typhus. Treat- ment consists in stimulation by galvanism, caustics, &c., but in one case