176/ heport on practical siedicine. must be made, the first at the same intervals. The swelling and the «nipliou are much checked, but a few pustules proceed to suppurate aud form cicatrices. Hebra.—On the Diagnosis of Eczema. Brit. Med. J., March 7th. Wiener Med. Wochenschr., Dec. 27th, 1862. Ilebra includes under the term eczema all disorders of the skin which are attended in citiier their earlier or Inter stages by the presence of vesicles and serous discharge. Eczema may begin with an eruption of vesicles, or of papules, or of both together. Tlie vesicles may speedily become purulent, and dry up into yellow crusts, which may fall off, leaving the condition known as eczema rubrum. Or after the development of vesicles the epidermis may be quite detached, leaving the rete mucosum denuded, and throwing out exudation. Again, when the exudation ceases, the parts pass into the_infiltrated, red, desquamating phase, known as eczema squamosum, or pityriasis rubra. In this way five or more differently named skin affections may all be referred to modifications of eczema. Hunt, T, —0« Diseases of the Skin developed in Schools, Workhouses, and Factories, from defective Hygiene. Brit. Med. Jour,, March 14th. These diseases are chiefly the common ringworm (porrigo scutulata) and scabies, and both show a tendency to pustulation. They often per- sist month after month, in spite of the most careful treatment and the most scrupulous attention to cleanliness and ventilation. In one particu- lar instance an endemic scabies persisted in a large girls' school for many months together in spite of cleanliness, ventilation, good drainage, nursing, and medical care; but nothing was of any permanent service until an entire change of diet was introduced, together with the daily exercise of the inmates away from the premises. The author states that these four causes atmospheric impurity, sameness of diet, insuflicient exercise, and contagion; all of them, trifling in degree, are yet capable of working together for evil, and may thus become powerful agents in the promotion and perpetuation of disease. Von Veiel's Report of SJdn Diseases observed at Canstatt for the years 1855 to 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 296. The whole number of cases treated in seven years was 887, of whom 740 were cured, 126 improved, 21 unimproved, and i died. Of eczema ehronicum there were 279 cases—42 universal, 237 partial. Only 5 of these were not benefited by the treatment. The most frequent cause is hereditary tendency, for in the parent or grandparent either the same skin disease had occurred (in 112 out of 279), or a similar eruption, in a8 cases, or a dyscrasic disease (as scrofula, gout, arthritis) allied to this form of eruption. Of the acquired diseases, syphilis, acute exanthemata, and itch, especially predispose to eczema, or cause it to be much xiiore obstinate. A peculiar circumstance is, that soiuetimes only the younger sisterg of a family are attacked, the elder ones remaining free, or the con- verse ; or that all the brothers alone are affected, while the sisters escape. Diseases which occurred simultaneously or alteruatingly with eczema