50 i!i:roin' ox puactical medicink. lo cnsc's of vdiini pninlysis were miconiplicntod, 4 had extensive paralysis, niul 2 iiad paraplegia. In tlie pliaryngo-Iaryiigcnl ca.-^es, denominated oronp, tlierc was almost invariably paralysis of the pharynx; in one there was general paralysis, and in one general weakness and persistent aphonia. Ik'sides these, there was also a case of palatal paralysis in a ehild, who liad had diphtheric exudation in the mastoid region and in the external auditory meatus. The same paralysis associated with paraplegia occurred in a little girl who had suffered from cutaneous diphtheria, without having had the least trace of exudation in the throat. Only in two instances did the paralysis notably ad'cct the rectum and bladder. In one patient the sphincter ani alone was paralysed ; in the other, both sphincters were nlFected, and there was also paraplegia. Among all the cases only one presented notable disorder of the visual apparatus, and in this the ambly- opia was the sole sign of paralysis, and there was no albuminuria through- out. The first appearance of paralysis occurred at very ditferent periods, and with the greatest variations in them. Nothing accurate could be made out respecting the mode of development of the paralysis, or the order in which the several forms occurred. The duration of the paralysis was very various, and did not appear to depend on any peculiarity in the situation of the primary disease, or of itself. The intercurrent diseases, broncho-pneumonia, pleuritis, measles, &c., seem to exercise no important influence on the course, the severity, or the termination of the palsies. The prognosis is generally favorable, and the palsy is only dangerous Avheu it affects the respiratory muscles, and aggravates thereby an inter- current pneumonia, when the dysphagia makes it necessary to feed the patient with an oesophagus-tube, and the system is depressed by inani- tion as well as by the original disease or when in very young children there is paralysis of the velum palati, when sudden death by suffocation may ensue during attempts at swallowing. Tiie most important remedies are tonics and local galvanism. The third section deals with statistics, no distinction being apparently made between simple, inflammatory, and diphtherial croup. During 1859 and i860 there occurred altogether in the children's hospital 441 cases of diphtheria, among which there were 362 cases of primary or secondary croup. About one fifth more girls were affected (in these years) by diphtheria than boys; in former years the contrary was the case. Of the 213 cases, 14 were i to 2 years old, 85 from 2 to 4, 68 from 4 to 6, 20 from 6 to 8, 15 from 8 to 10, 8 from 10 to 12, I about 14, i about 16, and i over 16 years of age. The colder months of the year, especially the first four, produced the largest number of cases. In January there were 25, in February 21, in March a6, in April 21, in May 18, in June 14, in July 12, in August ij, in September 14, in October 15, and in November and December 17 in each. In 60 cases no contagion could be detected in 25. On the other hand, 17 children who were in the hospital with various acute or chronic diseases contracted diphtheria while in the wards. In iS instances one or more persons suffered with pseudo-membranous affections at the same time or a little before, in the locality,house,or family,from which the little patients came. The conclusion is, that diphtheria may be developed sponianeously or as the result of infection. Among the above-mentioned 215 cases there were 54 of pharyngeal diphtheria, 154 of simple croup (laryugeal