THALLIUM. 415 lamp, and pouring them into a bronze mould. The object of adding the alum is to prevent the water of crystallization of the sulphate of copper being driven off by the heat. It is essential that the mould be made of bronze, lest the copper be deposited in the metallic state. The c^dinders so obtained are transparent, and of a bluish-green colour. MEECrBX. Mr. Lowndes ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' vol. ii, 1863, p. 195) relates a case of poisoning by turbith mineral (subsulphate of mercury). The patientj a healthy adult, appears to have taken rather less than a di'achm of this substance. A burning sensation in the throat and vomiting soon followed, and afterwards purging and pain in the epigastrium, with cramps of the limbs. Ten hoiu-s after, the tongue was still of a greenish- yellow colour in the middle, evidently the result of local contact with the powder. Under the administration of opium, vomiting and purging ceased, but tenesmus remained for some time. The gums began to be sore thirty-six hours after the poison was taken, and slight salivation came on; but in three or four days the patient was able to return to his work. Pedrolli ('Union Med.,' jN'o. xlii, 1863) recommends the following combination in obstinate syphilis :—Three grains of iodide of arsenic are dissolved in 1900 grains of water by the aid of a spiritlamp, and six grains of biniodide of mercury, with fifteen grains of iodide of potassium, are added to the solution. The dose is at fii'st four drops daily, and is increased by two drops each day till eighty are given. Mr. Haines ('Phar. Journ.,' p. 363), writing from Bombay, advises the disuse of the Hydrargyrum cum Greta, at least in India. At the or- dinai-y temperature of that country the metallic mercuiy volatilizes ; and at the same time some proto.xide and peroxide are formed, so that the powder acquires a dirty salmon colour. In one specimen examined not a trace of metallic mercury was left, but there were 2-16 per cent, of the protoxide, and 39*48 per cent, of the peroxide. THALLITTM. Lamy ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, No. 104; 'Schmidt,' 1863, Ko 11, p. 181) relates that, while experimenting on this new metal, he ex- perienced pains accompanied by the greatest lassitude, especially in the lower extremities. In animals, even after small doses, he has noticed paralysis of the posterior limbs, feebleness, and A'iolent pains, which appeared to have their seat in the intestines, and to be momentarily relieved by pressure and friction on the abdomen. Death occuiTcd in sixty-four hours, or in a few days. Neither vomiting nor purging was noticed in the whole course of the affection, and no evidence of inflam- mation, or of other changes, was discovered on post-mortem examination of these animals. In a dog the bladder was distended; in some cana- ries the serous membranes, and especially that covering the liver, were granular, and had a whitish appearance. The thallium was detected by the spectroscope in the muscles, and still more in the intestines and in the white-looking serous membranes. It was not found in the teeth. It