461 GLAZED VESSELS. ployecl in malcing the bridge over the Foyle, at Londonderry, and who worked in compressed air. The first is that of a man, aged twenty-eight years, who had worked for four hours under a pressure of twenty-three pounds to the square inch, and in passing into the external air became insensible. He died in twenty-four hours; among the symptoms ob- served were partial paralysis of the face on the right side, strabismus of the right eye, tlie pulse weak and irregular, the inspirations irregular, jerking, twenty-four to forty-four in the minute. Twelve ounces of blood were taken from the arm after the symptoms had persisted for some time; it was then found to be black, viscid, and treacly. No good effects resulted from this venesection. Another case was fatal, with symptoms almost exactly similar. Two other cases terminated in death ; in one of these a semi-comatose state occurred at the commencement, and when this passed off all the parts below the fourth rib were found to be para- lysed ; the loss of power continued ; bed-sores were the immediate cause of the fatal result. The other case resembled this closely. Two men, who recovered, were also affected with symptoms which were very similar in each case. The most important of them were severe pains in the legs and thighs, coldness and numbness of the hands and feet, so that the toes, placed near the fire, became severely burnt without any pain being felt. It is unfortunate that no autopsy was made in any of these cases; in all of them symptoms first arose when the workman was leaving the cylin- ders in which the air is compressed. The pressure under which the men worked varied from twenty-seven to thirty-eight pounds, and in one instance readied forty-three pounds on the square inch. In Sandahl's paper is given an account of institutions for the use of compressed air in the treatment of disease, which have been established at Montpellier, Lyons, and Nice. Tlie pressure is not allowed to exceed one and one fifth to one and two fifths atmospheres. Good results have been obtained, especially in cases of chronic bronchitis and of emphysema. Even in phthisis, palliation of the symptoms has been observed. GLAZED VESSELS. M. Chevallier ('Ann. d'Hyg.,' 1863, p. 280) says that some forms of glazed vessels produce injurious effects, which are surpassed only by those which arise from the use of copper utensils. He quotes two cases of lead colic, caused by gherkins which had been left in a glazed earthen vessel. In other instances symptoms have been produced through grapes which had been left to ferment in such jars, or through cider placed in them. He made a series of experiments with different kinds of pottery, exposing them to the action of acetic acid in the cold, of the same acid assisted by the application of heat, and of nitric acid of the strengths of one fortieth, one thirtieth, and one twentieth. The yellow and brown vessels resisted the action of vinegar in the cold ; one only was acted on by vinegar in the warm. The ordinary green and yellowish pottery of Paris is less safe. The value of these investigations was much dimi- nished by the impossibility of ascertaining the origin of the different spe- cimens examined. M. Chevallier, therefore, recommends aa official inquiry into this subject.