NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 87 system of nerves was the stnrling-point of morbid change. As muscular and cutaneous sensibility and electric contractility Avere persistent, and they, with the nutrition, speedily became under treatment either normal or e.xaggerated, while voluntary power remained in abeyance, it may be presunTed, (2) That the function of the nerve-trunks was not destroyed, and that the seat of wasting palsy was not in them. Since the palsy was preceded, and has been followed, by signs of disturbance in the cerebral functions, it is to be inferred—(3) that the affection had its remote orio-in in the injury inflicted on the head. But as there was marked diminution of electrjc contractility and sensibility and of nutrition, and, moreover, as the paralysis was in the upper portion of the affected limb, it may be presumed—(4) that loss of cerebral function was not the sole cause of the symptoms. Since the nutrition, contractility, and sensibility were diminished, but not lost, while voluntary power was entirely abolished, it may be concluded—(5) that the central functions of the medulla spinahs were j)ro tanto diminished, and its conducting property was in abeyance, and that in the impaired nutrition of that organ we must seek for the essential fact in wasting palsy. BoucuuT. —J. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., Aug., 1863. Eecommends the application, several times repeated, of Tinct. lodinii to parts affected with neuralgia. In some cases, when this fails, the addition of morphia (in the proportion of 5ss of Morphise Sulph. to 3SS of the tincture) gives very good results. GuuBER.—On Inflammation of the Brain from Otitis, without Caries. Wochenbl. d. Aerzte in Wien., Nos. 11 and 25. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. ist. Gruber met with a case in which inflammation from external injury arose within the right ear (which had previously been quite healthy), and extended to the right transverse sinus, and thence by means of the inferior cerebellar veins to the cerebellum. An acute pleurisy, with purulent exu- dation, terminated the patient's life. The most careful examination of the temporal bone and the ossicula failed to detect the slightest trace of caries. This case shows the importance of early derivative measures, as repeated leeching, the cautery, &c., as also the securing a sufficiently large opening in the membrana tympani for the discharge of the pus. In by far the great majority of cases the sinus transversus is the means of propagation, and only seldom one of the sinus petrosi. This can only arise from the anatomical relations of the sinuses to the cells of the mastoid process ; and to elucidate this, Gruber has examined numerous healthy ears, and has found, as a general rule, that the entrance to the cells is not in the posterior wall of the cavity of the tympanum, but in the posterior section of its internal wall. There is usually found an aperture from one to three lines long, which is prolonged into a canal, that extends to the series of cells in contact with the transverse sinus. Sometimes there is also a communi- cation with these cells through the posterior wall of the tympanum. In the new-born infant the few large cells of the process are but a continuation of the tympanum, and are separated from the sinus by a pretty thick wall of spongy bone. This wall, in proportion as the nurabcf