32 nKPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ulone haviug coiniectiou with tlie oculo-pupilluiy region. The dilata- tion of the pupil which C. Bernard has found to accompany every pain- ful impression may probably be, not a direct reflex eflecfof'the pain, but a result of the motions, respiratory or other, excited by it. Phillippeaux and Vulpiau divided the lingual (sensitive) and hypoglossal (motor) nerve of the tongue, on the same side, in dogs, and connected the central end of the former by a suture with the peripheral end of the latter. A considerable portion of the unused cud of each was removed. The experiments were several times rejjeated, and gave always the same result. The (peripheric) end of the hypo- glossal became regenerated very rapidly (far advanced in two months, almost complete in four) ; and after this time its functions could be brought into play by irritation of the portion of the lingual to which it was joined. To avoid error, mechanical irritation was employed to excite it, as well as galvanism. The lingual Avas cnt as high as possible, and pinched by a forceps; on each irritation there followed a strong and extensive movement of the corresponding half of the tongue. The authors draw the following conclusions:—(i) Sensitive nervous fibres may unite intimately, end to end, to motor fibres, and transmit to them the regenerative influence of the nervous centre. (3) Where this union is complete, irritation of the sensitive fibres is transmitted to the motor fibres, and through them determines muscular contraction. It is probable that, in like manner, irritation of peripheric motor fibres, united intimately, end to end, with central sensitive fibres, is transmitted to these latter, and produces pain. (3) These experiments lead us to think that, in the normal state, irritation, produced at any point what- ever in the course of a sensitive nerve, is propagated at the same instant both centripetally and centrifugally ; and it is probably the same with irritation of a motor nerve. Of course, in the animals thus experimented on, the function of the motor nerve remained abolished, though its action could be excited. "When the hypoglossal of the opposite side was also cut, the dog was quite unable to move its tongue. [MINI. Gluge and Thiernesso, whose results MM. Phillippeaux and Vulpiau call in question, repeat their former statement, that the sensory fibres are never rendered capable of conveying motor influence, and vice versa. See 'Bulletin de I'Acad. Boy. de Belgique,' No. 7, 1863, p. 65.] Prom the increase of reflex excitability which occurs in the frog when its head is removed, it has been inferred tliat there exist in its brain distinct nervous centres, which serve as moderators of reflex movement. ISetcbenow examined whether any direct evidence could be obtained of the existence of organs exercising such a function. For this purpose he divided the brain at difl^'erent points ; irritated its various parts by electricity or chemical agents, and finally excited it through the physiological channels. Por the production of the reflex movements he plunged the frog's claw into a solution of sea salt. The results he arrived at were, that there exists in the brain a special moderating mechanism, and that it is situated in the optic lobes.