323 TREATMJiNT OF CLTJB-POOT. the deformity has been increased by walking and standing, and the foot has become fixed; some muscles, and specially those placed on the convex side of the curvature, are then little or not at all employed, and accordingly suffer in their nutribion. It may now be readily understood how tenotomy acts, and in what cases it is likely to be useful. In primary club-foot, it overcomes only that fraction of the resistance which a single tissue, the muscles, pre- sent to the reduction of the foot to its normal position. The contrac- tion of the skin, subcutaneous cellular tissue, ligaments, and bones must be overcome by orthopedic after-treatment. In the symptomatic form the condition is usually much the same; for though the affection may have arisen from a single tissue, as the muscles, yet all the other surrounding parts adapt themselves to the false position with such rapidity as to oppose much resistance. The importance of tenotomy really consists in this, that it attacks the parts in which the danger of operative interference is the least, and of which the resistance is usually the greatest. Hence it results that it should only be employed when the muscles really present considerable resistance. The operation is not indicated when the foot can be placed in a proper position, either with or without the aid of chloroform. For we must not forget that the operation directly weakens certain muscles, and that it may have other injurious effects. In the treatment of club-foot, tenotomy is only the auxiliary of orthopasdic treatment. Secondary club-foot is usually acquired during extra-uterine life ; of course it may occur as a congenital affection. Most of the causes which produce it at later periods may, in exceptional cases, occur in the foetus. It may depend on some disease of the nervous system, of the brain and spinal cord, or much more rarely of its peripheral por- tions ; the disease may be of a spasmodic, or, as is very much more often the case, of a paralytic nature. Acquired varus is almost without exception the result of paralysis, and is most commonly seen in cases of infantile paralysis, more rarely in Pott's disease of the spine. In other cases, secondary talipes may be caused by the foot being kept in an unnatural position for a long time. Such is the pes equinus, which is developed in cases where only the toes and the Leads of the meta- tarsal bones touch the ground, owing to one limb being much shorter than the other. The same condition has often been induced in a similar manner by large painful ulcers of the back of the calf. The formation of cicatrices, inflammation of the ankle-joint, and inflammatory retrac- tions of the fascia, are other causes. The frequency with which a primary affection of the muscles acts as a cause cannot yet be decided. In very rare cases, talipes is produced by the abnormal form, or entire absence of some bone. The author terminates with the details of some cases, which appear to prove that pressure by the uterus may be a cause of talipes. Treatment of club-foot.—Mt. Bryant ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i> 415) ^^s. carried out the following practice extensively at Guy's Hospital with great success. " The rule which I apply to these cases is as follows:—That if the foot can be restored with but little force