17 BILE, AND FUXCTIONS OF THE LIVER. became staguaut iu the capillaries, and the corpuscles adhered to the walls of the vessels and to each other. These distended lacuusc, becoming dark and granular, are what A'irchow has called the connectiye-tissue- corpuscles, and they really bear a very difterent signification from that which he has assigned them. In ])arenchymatous inflammation the lacuna; are passive, and become filled by the increased cell growth. YI. BILE, AND I'UNCTIOXS OE TUE LIVEH. Betz, W.—On ilie Bloodstream in the Liver, cspecialli/ in tlie irej}atic Artery. Henle iind Pfeufer's Zeitschrift, vol. xviii, p. 44. liopPE Seyler, F.—On the Destination of J3ile in the Intestine. Vir- chow's Archiv, vol. xxvi, p. jjip. EoHHia, A.—On the Influence of the Bile upon the Action of the Heart. Archiv fiir Heilkunde, August, 1863, p. 385. Betz sought to determine the manner of the circulation within the liver by means of currents of gum-Avater driven through the hepatic artery and portal vein of a liver, placed as nearly as possible iu its natural position. He found that—(i) Under the same pressure more than twice as much blood passed through the portal vein as through the artery, after allowing for the difference of calibre, i. e. the resistance to the hepatic is greater than to the portal circulation. On an average, the diameter of the branches of the portal vein is five times that of the corresponding artery. (3) Blood passed more readily through the hepatic artery when less passed through the vein. (3) Pressure on the gall-ducts hindered the flow through the A"ein. (4) As far as could bo judged, filling of the liver-cells had the same effect. (5) Increased pressure around the liver also diminished the flow through the vein. (6) On forciug fluid through the portal vein in either direction, none escaped from the hepatic artery. (7) On forciug it through the hepatic artery, more escaped from the portal than from the hepatic vein. (8) Tying the hepatic artery (above the origin of the pancreatico-duodenalis) caused fatty degeneration of the liver, but did not arrest the secretion of bile. The experiment was not, however, continued beyond forty- eight hours. The fiEces of the dog, according to Hoppe Seyler, contain no sub- stance representing the biliary acids except cholalic acid, and this, together with cholesterine and pigment, are the only substances derived from the bile which are found iu the ficces. The cholalic acid is derived from tauro- and glyco-cholic acid by a spontaneous decomposition out of tlie body, and it appears that the process is the same within the bowel; for neither the pancreatic nor the intestinal secretion seems to expedite it. The change begins in the small intestine, but is chiefly effected in the colon. Only half the quantity of the secreted biliary acid is represented in the fajces evacuated (in the dog), but Hoppe Seyler has not as yet been able to find any evidence of its reabsorption. The frequently noticed slowness of the pulse iu jaundice induced fiohrig to put to the test the effect of bile upon the heart, by injecting it