DISLOCATIOX OF THE KKArUli. owing to the great flexion iieeessary to rupture tlio capsule. It depends on the size of the tear, and on the force exerted in carrying the limb down after the production of the dislocation, whether the head remains close to the point of rupture, or whether it is driven to a greater or less distance, even on to the ilium; sometimes an ischiatie, sometimes an iliac dislocation is the result. Gelle has asserted that a luxation of the lemur may be most easily produced on the subject by flexion without adduction, but the author has never been able to succeed in such a way. The capsule does not always tear in the same direction ; the rupture is sometimes just at, or close to, the edge of tlie acetabulum ; at other times tliere'is a short tear close to the acetabulum, from which a second passes outwards, parallel to the neck of the femur. The author has never seen sucli a rupture as that described by Gelle, in which the capsule remains entire near the pelvis, and is only torn at its attach- ment to the neck of tlie femur. Experience has already show-n that in respect to luxations backwards, it matters not whether the head is placed higher or lower on the pelvis, the method of reduction by trac- tion in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the body must be rejected. Such a method would only answer where the capsule was extensively torn. AVhere, however, as is usually the case, the rupture is only to a moderate extent, its outer lip is applied firmly to the neck of the femur, and the front of tlie capsule, which is at the same time uninjured, is very tense. On the subject it can be easily proved that extension causes ijicreased tension of the capsule, but does not approximate the head of the bone to the acetabulum. On the other hand, if the thigh is flexed to a right angle or more, the head passes down to the rupture, and may, in a favorable case, then only require slight rotation outwards to efl'ect reduction; in other cases it must be also slightly raised, which may generally be readily eflfected bj' a little extension, in a direction at right angles to tlie longitudinal axis of the body. Reduction is, how- ever, miich facilitated by adduction, which forces the rupture to gape, tlie head or neck of the bone raising the lower lip of the tear from the edge of the acetabulum. Thus in one experiment, after the thigh had been flexed, a small subcutaneous wound of the capsule was made with a tenotomy knife, and the head forced out by violent adduction, and then driven as much as possible upwards. The author now proceeded to reduction ; he bent the thigh on the body to somewhat more than a right angle, then adducted, finally rotated the limb outwards, and stretched it; the luxation was reduced without the least traction. Having again dislocated the same limb, he bent the thigh not quite to a right angle, and then rotated it outwards ; the head did not slip in, and still remained at some distance from the cotyloid ridge. The pelvis was now fixed, and extension applied to the thigh, flexed at aright angle ; it required very considerable traction, indeed so great as to raise the pelvis, notwithstanding the efi"orts of the assistant, before the head could be replaced by rotation outwards. Thus flexion with adduction is the readiest method; simple flexion required the use of considerable traction. Adduction raises the head from the edge of the acetabulum, so that a little rotation outwards causes at once reduction. Flexion with adduction was empirically used, and recommended by Dospres ;