5 FOIIMATION OF ORGANIZED BODIES. With a view to throw more light upon the doctrine of the essential part played by the cells, independently of blood-vessel or nerve, in animal nutrition, Waldenburg submitted to accurate observation the stems, leaves, seeds, &c., of plants which he had previously injured in various ways. He foimd, as the general result, that the cells imme- diately around the injured part degenerated, and either withered or decayed, the green chlorophyll changing, by a passive decomposition, into the yellow xanthophyll. The cells adjoining these underAvent a process of enlargement and multiplication by subdivision, their walla becoming greatly thickened. If seeds were injured, similar results ensued when they were caused to germinate. The production of resin, gum, or wax, is not a secretion, but a process analogous to fatty degeneration. The cellular phenomena Avhich follow irritation are es- sentially alike in plants and animals, and lead to similar results. Changes in vessels and nerves are not essential precedents and exciters of inflammation, which consists in an alteration primarily of the meta- morphosis of matter within the cells. The cells, however, are not sus- ceptible of a direct external irritation, but possess a seusibility only to internal disturbances in the exchange of the nutritive fluids. It is not the act of injuring, but the condition of being injured, that perverts their action. AValdenburg thinks that inflammation should not be con- sidered as existing in plants, but that the word should have a narrowed meaning, and imply an excited activity of the tissue, plus blood- congestion. Buckholz adds some farther particulars respecting the formation of bone from transplanted periosteum. His observations differ from those of Oilier in some respects, especially as to the existence of the sub- periosteal blastema, which Buckholz denies. The bone is formed in the thickened substance of the periosteum itself, tlirough the medium of the cells Avhich it contains in a contracted and shrivelled form. These cells enlarge and multiply, and behave in a way precisely similar to those of cartilage, which he believes iu some cases precedes, in the strictest sense, the deposit of the calcareous matter, though the presence of chondrin has not been demonstrated. Within two or three days the transplanted periosteum is injected and swollen, and bauds of ad- hesion form between it and the surrounding tissue. It is speedily regenerated in the parts from which it has been removed: in fourteen days Buckholz has seen a perfect membrane re-formed, fit for renewed transplanting. II. rOEMATION OF OEGAI^IZED BODIES, Pasteuh, L.—A new Example of Fermentation, determined hij InfuRory Animalcules alle to live without Free Oxi/r/en, and apart from all contact toith Atmospihene Air. Comptes lieudus, March p'th, 1863, p. 416. Pasteur, L.—Examination of the Bole ascribed to Atmospheric Oxygen in the Destruction of Animal and Vejetalle Matter after Death. Comptes llcndus, April 20th, 1863, P- 734*