EEPOllT ON PUBLIC HKALTlf. 468 inner surface of llie lips were some bodies •wliicli resembled vesicles; but on pricking them no fluid exuded. The Inncet was therefore introduced into the mucous membrane. A drop of blood appeared, and afterwards some serum.; this was taken up by the lancet, and was the starling-point of tliis remarkable chain of effects. A case bearing upon the question whether syphilis can be transmitted by vaccination occurred in tlie Hotel Dieu, in September, 1862. A girl under treatment for catarrhal metritis, with granular ulceration of the OS uteri, M'as vaccinated in the arm from a child apparently healthy, and born in tlie hospital. Four children were vaccinated at the same time from the same source. Tliey experienced no ill effects; in the girl the punctures became slightly inflamed, but in five days they disappeared. Twenty-three days after the vaccination she returned to the hospital. Two erythematous pustules existed on the seat of two of the punctures on the left arm. These passed into rupial ulcers ; the glands of the axilla and neck became indurated, and at last a roseola of indubitably syphilitic nature made its appearance. Ricord, who was consulted on this case, declared that it was impossible to affirm what was the source of the contagion ('Gaz. Med.,' No. i, p. i, 1863). Clatter relates the following case (' Oest. Ztschrft. f. prakt. Heilk.,' viii, 4; Canstatt, vii, 69, 1863) :—A midwife got an unhealthy sore on her forearm while assisting in the confinement of a woman who was affected with syphilis. She continued to nurse her little grandchild, and to carry it in her arms. The child, apparently healthy, was vaccinated, and most of the children in the place were inoculated with lymph taken from it. lu these infants the pustules passed into spreading ulcers ; affec- tions of the mouth and condylomata about the anus also showed them- selves. Fissures appeared on the nipples of the mothers who suckled their children, and the affection reached even their husbands. (There is, however, no evidence that this was anything mdre thcan a case of inocula- tion of primary syphilis from the arm of the first child, which was exposed to direct contact with this poison.) Dr. Bohn gives a useful survey of all that has been observed on the subject in 'Schmidt's Jahrbuch"' (1863, x, p. 97). He concludes that vaccino-syphilitic inoculation is a fact, and he adopts the theory of Viennois, that the source of the syphilitic contagion is to be looked for in blood introduced with the lymph at the time of vaccination.