55 GENERAT, SYSTEHr. liave resisted daily repeated 3j-doscs of quinine, tlie good efTccts of cobweb are most conspicuous. Newman—Oh Diphtheria. Brit. Med. Jour., Feb. 28tli. Duriu"- the last six months of 1861, Newman observed 18 cases (10 males and 8 females), two of whom were under the age of 10, 7 aged 10—20 years, and 9 older. One died, a child, set. 4, from direct affection of the larnyx. One case hnd partial paralysis of both lower extremities, sensation being more damaged than motor power. In one case, almost from the very commencement, there was excessive sickness. Absolute repose, maintenance of general power, and the local application of Beau- foy's chloride of soda, with a large brush, twice or thrice daily, are the most useful remedial measures. In the severer cases he advises one application of H. CI. Stokes.—Dub. Jour. Med. Sc., Feb., 1863. Exhibited to the Pathological Society the pharynx and respiratory organs of a patient dead of diphtheria. The point of interest was that the tongue, tonsils, pharynx, epiglottis, larynx, trachea, and right bronchus, were more or less thickly coated with the deposit, even as far as the fourth or fifth bronchial ramification, while the left bronchus remained quite free from it. The right lung was cedematous and consolidated, the left comparatively healthy. jAFi'K, Max.—Report on Diphtheria z?) its epidemiological and nosological relations. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. '2,^6. This is a continuation of the former report on the same subject (Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 113, p. 96). We can only notice some of the more important papers. Weber, H. ('Virchow's Arcliiv,' xxv, p. 114, 1862) relates seven cases of consecutive paralysis, concerning which he expresses the opinion that it depends on a primary jjeripheral alteration of the nerves, of which we have no exact knowledge, and which our pre- sent means are insufficient to investigate. This is propagated from the originally affected part to the spinal centre, much in the same way as in tetanus the irritation is transmitted from the wound. Roger ('Archiv. G6n.,' Jan., Feb., April, I862) gives a detailed account of clinical inquiries respecting diphtherial paralysis, with statistics respecting croup. His first section treats of the frequency of paralysis in diphtheria, which is shown by comparative figures (v. 'Year-book,' 1863, p. 82) to be very greatly above that observed in other acute diseases. The second section contains a summary of the various cases of paralysis. There were altogether 36 cases, of wiiich 27 belonged to the throat and soft palate (16 of these terminating fatally) ; 7 cases of general paralysis ending in recovery, and 2 ending fatally. Most of these cases were from 4 to 6 years old ; the next largest number were between 2 and 4, and the third between 6 and 8 years. Of 38 cases, 21 belonged to the female and 17 to the male sex. No season of the year had any special eff"ect in inducing the disease. The localization of the primary diphtheria in 12 cases was pharyngeal, in 23 was laryngeal (croup), and in 2 was cutaneous. In the 12 pharyngeal cases paralysis of the velum palati occurred ten times; once there was palsy of the sphincter ani, and once there was amblyopia. Four out of the