GEKEUAL AKATOMY AND PHYSIOrOGY. 345 uterus, and aloug the entire length of the right tube, because the middle part of tlie right tube was compressed by the cyst described; but believes that there was an extra-uterine transmigration, and that the ovum passed either directly or after a passage through the abdominal cavity into the right Tallopian tube. In support of this view, the two eases of Oldham and Eokitansky are quoted. In Eokitansky's case a uterine pregnancy resulted, an interstitial pregnancy in Oldham's, and a tubal pregnancy in the present case. If, in these three cases, the morsus diaboli of one side had been united by adhesions to the opposite ovary, the mode in which the migration happened would be clear enough, but only in Oldham's case were such adhesions probable. Klob showed that the morsus diaboli of one side was often easily brought into relation with the opposite ovary, and held that, as the result of the turgescence attending men- struation, such a relation frequently occurred. The author contends that such proximity is not necessary for the passage of the ovum, and cites the observations of J. MuUer, that in many amphibia and fishes the openings of the tubes are widely distant from the ovaries. He thinks that a kind of capillary stream is set up by the action of the ciliated epithelium, which mostly leads towards the openings of the tubes ; and that this is more likely to sweep the ovum into the tube corresponding to the ovary from which the ovum escaped. If the ovum escapes from the hinder surface of the ovary, it may easily fall into the peritoneal cavity, and be lost altogether. The possibility of the passage of an ovum from the ovary of one side to the opposite side of a simple uterus, is proved by the fact that the placental wound is frequently found on the side opposite to the ovary which fui'nishes the corpus luteum, and even, as Virchow observed, over the mouth of the opposite Fallopian tube. The author thinks it probable that intra-uterine transmigration may be effected through the muscular erectile action or compression of the uterus occurring shortly after conception, squeezing the yet free ovum upwards towards the opening of the opposite tube, and possibly into the tube itself. See also Klob, "On the Migration of Ova" ('Wien. Wochenbl.,' xvii, 40, 1861, and ' Tear-book' for 1862, p. 331). Dr. r. A. Kehrer, " On the Tubo-ovarian Connecting Apparatus of Pank, and the Mechanism of the Transit of the Ovulum into the Fallopian Tube " ('Henle und Pfeuffer's Zeits.,' 1863). Prof. Braun, of Vienna, in an interesting paper, " A new Contribu- tion to the Knowledge of Amniotic Bands " (' Zeitschr. der Gresellschaft der Aerzte in Wien.,' 1862, and 'Mon. f. Geb.,' March, 1863), endea- vours to explain the mode of formation of bands and membranes in the amniotic sac, which are sometimes found in connection with intra- uterine amputation of foetal limbs. The formation of the amnion takes place through cell-multiplication and special relations of growth of the external layer of the germinal membrane. The first amniotic folds are developed by a rapid surface- growth at one spot; these are carried up in a definite direction towards