42 BEPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. parcel with tlint of otlicr febrile disenses, ns pneumonia, nre its containing albumen and sugar, althougli tiiese are not constantly present. Tiie amount of albumen sceniP, on the whole, to vary with tlie degree of fever, increasing with the disease and declining also along with it. In cases where general dropsy occurred during the last period of the disease, or during convalescence, albumen was no longer found in the urine, l.eljert denies that the albuminuria stands in any connection with the intensity of the fever, and has noticed its occurrence not uncommonly in abortive typhus. Vogt agrees with Brattler that albuminuria in typlius and other fevers is generally rather the result of the febrile condition itself than of a nephritic complication. Schwartz ('Rigaor Beitriig.,'iv, 1859) distinguishes two forms of grave renal inflammation occurring in the course of tvplius. In one there is pyelitis and nephritis, with small, indistinct abscesses in the renal parenchyma, resulting from retention and reflux of the urine. It usually ends fatally, with comatose symptoms. The urine contains dur- ing life pus, albumen, and often blood. The pelvis of the kidney is found dilated. The second form results from renal hypersemia, induced by the fever itself, and issues in the changes characteristic of morbus Brightii (acute desquamative nephritis). The urine contains albumen, and often blood, but no pus. Dropsj', on the whole, but rarely ensues. The two forms may be blended together. Smoler draws attention to the remark- able absence of oxalate of lime in typhus urine, and proposes it as a means of diagnosis between typhus on the one hand and ague or acute miliary tuberculosis on the other. Lehmanu and Volk ('Wien. Med. Wchnschr.,' viii, 1858) find no constant proportion between the increase of the urea and the decrease of the Cl.Na. on the one hand and the intensity and peril of the disorder on the other. Vogt opposes Franke's view, that the absence of chlorides in the urine in typhus and other fevers depends only upon the loss of appetite and the non-ingestion of aliment. He finds that they appear in the urine as soon as the disease has begun to decline, and thinks that their absence is the result of grave derangement of the assimilating processes. Ulrich ('Deutsche Klinik,' xxiii, 1859) and Lebert both report the occurrence of epistaxis in some severe cases of typhus. The former observed eight cases where the haemorrhage occurred towards the beginning of the second week; plugging of the anterior and posterior nares was requisite in all; but in spite of this, six of them died speedily from exhaustion. There is much risk that, on account of the patient's apathy and his supine position, most of the blood gets swal- lowed, and attention is not drawn to the existence of the hremor- rhage until collapse rapidly ensues. Vogt mentions a case of inter- meningeal, and lllrich one of post-peritoneal, hoemorrhage, behind the ascending colon. Lebert records a case of chronic dysentery succeeding typhus, which produced a i-ecto-vaginal fistula, and was attended with peri- tonitis and fatty slate of the liver. Two cases of peritonitis from intes- tinal perforation are given, the results of which go to show that perfora- tion is by no means always fatal. Ulrich found inflammatory lung .nfTcc- tions to hold the first place among the complications of typhus; they never appeared before the third, often in the fourth or fifth week, and not uncommonly caused death even when convalescence had commenced. Lebert, pnrticularlj* at one period, met with numerous cases of severe