311 UETENTION OP XTEINE. be forgotten that a case of retention will at length pass into a typhoid condition, which might possibly be mistaken for the coma of uraemic poisoning; but the history of the case, and the presence of a distended bladder and dribbling of urine, would at once point out its true nature." C. H. Moore, on a method of operating for retention of urine in certain cases of cancer of the vulva (' Lane.,' 1863, ii, 218). "There appear to be serious objections to the methods suggested for punc- turing the bladder in women. The most promising operation is that through the linea alba, and the most disappointing ; for it, more than any other, is attended with the subsequent inconvenience, that an instrument can scarcely, and sometimes cannot, be retained in the track of the puncture. The cause of this difficulty is twofold. On the one hand, as it is the function of the bladder to expel its contents, a catheter or a canula is at least as sure to be extruded as the natural contents of the organ; on the other hand, the channel of the puncture, though at first direct, becomes curved as the \irine escapes. When the bladder is full, the apertures in the linea alba and the bladder corres- pond in situation. It is at this time that the puncture is made. But when the bladder contracts, the puncture in it descends far below that in the linea alba, and a tube, which is flexible enough to lie in both openings, is easily pushed out of the minor one by the bladder. Unless the tube can be re-introduced, Avhich is not always the case, the urine collects in the bladder again, or is infiltered in the tissues outside it." In the case, described by Mr. Moore, difficult micturition had been gradually induced by the presence of a large tumour, springing from the ramus of the os pubis and ischium, by enlargement and protrusion of the clitoris and nymphss, and by oedema of the whole vulva. As the disease advanced, the " difficulty increased; the desii-e to pass urine was frequent and urgent; the quantity which escaped at each effort lessened; at length, a teaspoonful only vras voided a few times a day, and no permanent relief was obtained even in the warm hip-bath. The bladder rose to the level of the umbilicus—a broad smooth rounded swelling, dull on percussion, and tender when touched. The countenance looked distressed, and its hue dark. No relief could be afforded to the bladder by the use of the catheter. The meatus was hidden in the swollen parts, and their tender condition, together with the tight constriction of the urinary passage, precluded the use of instruments. As soon, therefore, as the obstruction had reached the degree which has just been described, and it was evident that no relief to the tension of the parts was about to be afi'orded by a spontaneous sloughing of the tumour, I determined to puncture the bladder." " Having had chloroform administered, I introduced Mr. Cock's long curved trocar and canula about an inch above the pubes, and passed it through the linea alba into the bladder. Withdrawing the trocar, I evacuated about half the urine, and relaxed the tension of the bladder. Then directing the canula behind the symphisis pubis, and pressing it, as nearly as I could judge, against the inner end of the meatus urinarius, I re-introduced the trochar into the canula, and