194 heport on suegeey. GONoannffiA. Prof. Zeissl has publislied some researcliefi ou the active constituent of copaiba ('Wien. Med. Woeheuschr.,' 1863, pp. loo, 115). Itappears certain that the action of copaiba ia purely local, and that it does not euro by tlic production of any change in the blood ; bcHides, it only acts on the urinary organs, as is shown by its negative eflect in uterine and vaginal discharges, as also in gonorrhoeal ophthalmia. These facts, supported by liicord's well-known case of urethral fistula, prove that the change in the urine produced by the medicinal agent causes the remedial effect. As it is now known that copaiba is not a single body, but composed of several constituents, it becomes necessary to trace the action of each constituent separately. It contains a volatile oil = C,q Iljj, copaivic acid = C^^ H32 0^, and a neutral resin, which has not yet been analysed. Another fact of some importance has been pointed out by Kees (' Guy's IIosp. liep.,' ser. i, vol. vi, p. i2i),F. Simon, and Valen- tin ; it is that the urine of those, who had taken cubebs or copaiba some hours previously, gives an opalescent precipitate on the addition of nitric or muriatic acid. According to the author, Dr. H. Weikart was the first to study this question with skill and success ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' i860). Weikart con- cluded that the active constituent, the resinous acid or the volatile oil, must be contained in the urine. His researches merely showed that little or none of the oil passed into the urine. Prof. Zeissl has repeated these experiments, and has arrived at the same conclusion. He explains the formation of a precipitate as follows :—Copaivic or any other resinous acid administered, unites in the intestines or in the blood Avith potash or soda, and thus forms a resinous soap (resinate of potash, resinate of soda) soluble in water, and expelled in solution in the urine. If, now, a stronger acid is added, the resin falls as a precipitate. The next step was, of course, to experiment with copaivic acid or with the copaivate of soda. As, however, these can only be obtained with great difiiculty, Prof Zeissl employed other resinous acids; thus, in a case of very refractory gonorrhoea, he administered abietine acid, combined with carbonate of soda in the proportion of 3 to 3,-and in the dose of 12 to 15 grains a day, with an exceedingly good eflect. As the body from which abietine acid was derived, and as a material to be readily obtained, he tried colophouium, finely pulverized, and combined with magnesia usta or carbonate of soda, in the proportion of 3 to i, and in the dose of 5 to 6 scruples a day. His experiments were too few to show the therapeutic effect; they proved, however, that the simple administration of copaivic or pinic acid (colophonium) did not induce the peculiar precipitate in the urine already mentioned. This could only be explained by the solid form of the resins mentioned, the fluid condition of the copaivic acid in the ordinary copaiba allowing a rapid change into resinous soaps, soluble in water. To bring the resinous acids contained in colophonium, as soluble bodies, into the organism, he determined to administer them in the form of a soap. Three ounces of crystallized carbonate of soda are dissolved in 12 ounces of distilled water j the solution is then heated to the boiling-point,