ItKl'OUT ON SUIIOKIIY. 230 the addiictiou should, however, he carried to a greater degree liiaa re- commended hy him ; the thigh should generally ho flexed to rather more than a right angle. The capsule is always ruptured on the inner side of the ilio-femoral ligament, in eases of dislocation forwards on to tlie puhis, or into tlio foramen ovale; hotli these luxations are caused essentially in the same manner, and the difl'ereut position of the head depends on the degree of adduction of tlie thigli, and the point of rupture of the capsule. Both are produced on tlio suhjeet hy hyperexteusion, ahduc- tion, and rotation outwards. In some rare cases the dislocation into the foramen ovale is secondary to the ischiatic form produced hy flexion and adduction, ahduction immediately ensuing, and driving the head forwards round the lower margin of the acetahulum. In tlic luxation on to the puhis the head either remains close to the spot at which the capsule is ruptured, a little to the inner side of the anterior inferior spinous process, and therefore, strictly speaking, not on the puhis, as correctly remarked hy Malgaigne, or it passes further inwards, even hehind the l^soas-iliacus, the nerves, and vessels. Experience has already condemned direct extension in the latter cases, where the limb is extended or slightly flexed and rotated outwards; such traction, indeed, renders both the psoas and the capsule more tense, lieduction by flexion, even to an acute angle, has been recently recommended, and it is true that by this means the outer lip of the capsular tear, which is formed by the ilio- femoral ligament, is relaxed; where the head is close to the anterior inferior spinous process, flexion, aided perhaps by a little abduction, forces it to the edge of the acetabulum; but where it is placed really on the pubis, flexion presses it still further behind the os pubis; it is necessary in such a case to use sufliicient extension in a dii'ection at right angles to the longitudinal axis of the body, to raise the head over the pubis. It may be laid down as a general principle that in both varieties of suprapubic luxation the method of reduction by abduction, hyperexteusion, and rotation outwards, is to be preferred to that by angular flexion. It is not necessary to make any difference in the method of reduction employed in dislocations forwards ; just as in those backwards, the higher or lower position of the head is of little import- ance, and accordingly the method just recommended for the luxation on to the OS pubis answers for that iuto the foramen ovale, except that in the latter the abduction should be somewhat more forcible. _ Of course, in the rare cases where the latter form is secondary to an ischiatic dis- location, the first point will be to reproduce the latter form. Accord- ing to the author's experiments, the easiest way of reducing dislocations of the femur may be formulated as follows:—i. Dislocation backwards, iliac or ischiatic; flex the thigh to rather more than a right angle, adduct it till the knee reaches somewhat over the opposite side of the body, and then rotate outwards. (2) Dislocation forwards, supra or infra-pubic ; abduct the thigh, rotate it somewhat outwards, and carry it into hypercxtcnsion, then rapidly rotate ihwards and place it straight. A.n athletic farmer's-man had, six days before his admission into the Clinic, dislocated the left thigh backwards by a fall from a considerable height. Tiic limb was moderately flexed and much rotated inwards, but