30 REPOET ON PnYSIOLOOY. From mucus, morphological elements, uric acid, and urea. 3. From uric acid, urea, and allantoin. 4. Prom f/li/cin, urea. 5. From ihein, urea. 6. From yli/cerine, sugar and lactic acid. 7. From inosile, lactic acid. 8. From the lactate, formiate, buli/rate, and acetate of lime, carbonate of lime and water. 9. From tartrate of lime, carbonate and oxalate of lime. 10. From r/im, carbonate and oxalate of lime and water. 11. From sugar. 12. Yrom ami/(/daUn, Hugar, hydro- cyanic acid, and probably volatile oil of almonds, 13. From tannic acid, sugar and gallic acid. 14. From salicin, sugar and saligenin or saliretin. Electricity has no influence on starch, dextrin, glycogen, or sugar. Van Deen has also subjected various substances to the action of ozone, with the following results :—i. From uric acid, urea and allan- toin. 2. From gljjcin, urea. 3. From c/lycerine, sugar and, very pro- bably, lactic acid. Ozone appears to have no influence on starch. Is^itric acid and heat produce sugar from starch, the corpora amylacea, mannite, and gum. The fresh pancreas of a dog, whether the reaction was or was not acid, produced fatty acids, glycerine and sugar, from butter, and sugar from (jlycerine. At a temperature of 32° E. (104° Fahr.) calves' liver produced glycogen and sugar from glycerine, sugar from starch, and at the ordinary temperature sugar from dextrine. (See 'Tear-book,' 1862.) X.—ITEETOTJS STSTE3X. BeeNAED, C.—Oculo-pupillary phenomena, produced by section of the Cervical Sympathetic, independent of the Vascular and Calorific Phenomena of the Head. Journal de la Physiologic, t. 5, No. 19. ViGOUEOtrx, E.— On the Influence of the Movements of Bespiration on those of the Iris. Comptes Eeudus, Sept. 28th, 1863. PhiI/LIPpeaitx, J. M., and Vtjlpiab", A.—Researches on the Beunion, end to end, of Sensitive Nervous Fibres tvith Motor ones. Comptes Eendus, Jan. ^th, 1B63, p. 54. Setchenow, M.—On the Modo'aiors of Eejlex Movement in the Brain of the Frog. Comptes Eendus, Jan. 5th, 1863, p. 50. In continuation of his previous experiments upon the vascular nerves, and their independence of the musculo-motor nerves (see ' Year-book' for 1862, p. 31), C. Bernard proceeds to show that in the eftects pro- duced by the section of the great sympathetic in the neck, namely, increase of heat, vascularity, and sensibility, contraction of the pupil, retraction of the globe, and flattening of the cornea, it is necessary to distinguish two orders of symptoms :—ist. Vascular and calorific effects, due to section of the sympathetic, and the same all over the body, and secondly, symptoms which he terms 'oculo-pupillary.' That these are respectively due to distinct nerves, he has obtained experimental ^'^Iifthe dog, he finds that the division of the roots of the first and second dorsal nerves produces all the eftects upon the eye that result from