188 heport on surgery. nerve-fibres by a splinter of bone or some other foreign body. In these cases it is best to allay tlie excitement by a full dose of morphine, ten or fifteen drops of IMugendie's Bolutiou, and to soothe the pain by sprinkling half a grain or a grain of morphine directly into the wound, which will in most cases act like a charm, allaying tlie pain imme- diately ; yet where the excessive pain depends upon the irritation of some lacerated nerve-fibrc, this relief may be only temporary. You should therefore furnish a little dry morphine to the attendant on the ambulance, witli direction to repeat the local application, if required." MM. Demarquay and C. Leconte, on the influence of difl'erent gases over the healing of divided tendons ('Arch. Gen.,' 1862, ii, 653). M. Voillemier, on the treatment of collections of blood and pus by capillary punctures (' Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' v, loi). FROSTBITE. S. Adams has recorded a case in which, after diarrhoea and rapid emaciation, the autopsy showed ulceration of the duodenum. " The mucous membrane was covered with small, irregular, elliptical ulcers, with rough, serrated edges, and extending in different directions." The author compares the condition with that occasionally found in cases of severe burns ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, i, loi). GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Mr. A. Neill enforces the importance of fresh air and of local treat- ment by fresh water ('Edinb. Med. Jour.,' viii, 790). In wounds of the chest the head must be kept raised, so as to relieve the breathing; he has found fixing the chest by means of broad strips of adhesive plaster, passed round from over the spinous processes of the vertebrae to the front part of the chest, leaving the wounds exposed, to give great relief to the breathing, changing the condition from torture and extreme agony to comparative comfort. After amputation acute bron- chitis is to be feared, causing much danger to the patient; it is accom- panied by a considerable diminution of the purulent discharge from the wound, and is little affected by the ordinary remedies; when the pus returns in increased quantity, the wound assumes a more healthy aspect, and the bronchitis gradually disappears. " In the course of treatment in gunshot wounds diarrhosa and dysentery are very frequentlj- most annoying to the patient, and reduce the strength very rapidly. In these cases I have found nothing so speedily beneficial as powdered charcoal, in one-ounce doses, five or six times a day, and it has in- variably checked the diarrhoea. Through the whole course of treatment I have found that the tincture of the muriate of iron in small doses, twice daily, has been of much service, and has changed the appearance of the wound in a few days after amputation, when of an unhealthy aspect, to a fine healthy look, where the consistence of pus changed materially. I have given it in thirteen cases of gunshot wounds, from the seventh day for a period of about a mouth or six weeks, with the most satisfactory results."