441 GENERAL THERAPEUTICS. perties of the bark, but is less sedative in its action. Its dose is gr. ij, or, as a sedative, gr. iv—'viij. Tlie following arc among" the new remedies a description of which is given in the 'Lancet' (1863, vol. i, pp. 127, 190, 337 ; vol. ii, p. 48). JEupatorium furpureim.—Eiipurpurin, an oleo resin obtained from the alcoholic tincture of the root of this plant, is said to be superior to all other remedies as a diuretic ; dose, gr. iij. Baptisia tinctoria, the wild indigo.—The root-bark, and the leaves, are the parts used. In full doses it is emetic and purgative, in smaller quantities it has a stimulant action. It is used internally in malignant fevers, and also topically as an application to sloughing iilcers, &c. Baptisin, the dose of which is gr. j—V. Phytolacca decandra.—The root and leaves of this plant arc officinal. In large doses it is purgative, emetic, and narcotic ; but it is used in small doses, when it is found to be a powerful alterative. It is said to relieve the pain in some cases of rheumatism more readily than even opium. The dose of the concentrated preparation (phytolaccin) is gr. \—\. Eumacin.—The exact species from which this is obtained is not stated. It has an antiscorbutic, autiscrofulous, and alterative action; dose, gr. v. The remaining four remedies are said to have a special action on the uterus. They are the Aletris farinosa, the Asclepias tuberosa, the Benecio gracilis, and the Trillium pendulmi. GEKEEAL TnEEAPEUTICS, M. Luton ('Presse Medicale Beige,' 1863, No. 45, p. 360), injects remedies into diseased parts which are deeply situated. He calls this proceeding the method of "parenchymatous substitution," the object being to replace one morbid action by another of an artificial kind. An exploratory trocar is used for this purpose, a glass syringe, containing the liquid to be injected, being fitted to it. In cases of sciatica and tic douloureux he employed a saturated solution of common salt in this way; alcohol, tincture of cantharides, or tincture of iodine, may also be injected, so as to excite slight inflammatory action. In chronic glandular enlargements this method is also useful. In one case of goitre, in which tincture of iodine was injected into the tumour, the patient completely recovered ; two other cases of the same kind were imder observation. No ill eflects have been produced by this proceed- ing. Besides the substances mentioned, solutions of nitrate of silver, of sulphate of copper, or of bichloride of mercury, may also be employed. l)r. Ilandfield Jones remarks, with reference to difi:*erent anodynes, that aeonitine is most adapted to relieve superficial pain, itching, and hyperajsthesia of the skin; opium is especially valuable when the pain is of a wearying, aching kind, more connected with debility, and re- quiring a stimulating and tonic rather than a sedative treatment; and veratria to intermediate states, " where a peculiar excitation of the nerve- extremities seems to alter the morbid action of the afi'ected nerve." Agonite requires care, especially in weakly subjects, or in those who have a tendency to syncope. It should never be applied to excoriated or mucous surfaces, except when much diluted. There is a tolerance of it, not only in tetanus, but in cases of acute pain or of severe itching,