253 CAUSES OF STEABISMUS. wlien the furthest point of distinct vision is nearer than that which can bo attained by the utmost convergence, thus when the myopia is greater than Accordingly, whilst relative strabismus divergens may occur in high degrees of myopia, unattended by any insufficiency, it may also appear without myopia m cases where the insufficiency is extreme. Its most important form is where a moderate degree of myopia appears iu combination with insufficiency. An ordinary degree of insufficiency would only induce muscular asthenopia; accompanied by myopia, it induces divergent strabismus. Muscular asthenopia is thus avoided at the cost of binocular vision. Opportunities are frequent for observing the difierent phases of the contest between tiuocular vision and rela- tively divergent strabismus. Cases are exceptionally met with in which, with extreme myopia, there is a great power of converging, though, indeed, at the cost of the mobility outwards. More frequently, however, the convergence is not sufficient for such cases, and we then meet with a strange combination of relatively divergent strabismus during vision of near objects, and relatively convergent during that of distant objects, whilst a certain range of binocular vision remains for medium distances. Such a condition recalls to mind the combination of myopia with presbyopia. Absolute divergent strabismus is characterised by the visual lines diverging also in the vision of distant objects; it ordinarily excludes all binocular vision, though in some few cases a tendency in the oppo- site direction is temporarily noticed during vision of objects placed at a particular distance, a few feet or inches. Absolute divergent squint is rarer than the convergent form, and myopia is less frequently the cause of the former than hypermetropia of the latter. If, however, cases of both absolute and relative divergent strabismus are counted together, the convergent form would be the less frequent; myopia is found iu about 90 per cent, of the cases of relative divergent strabismus. The reasons for the change of the relative into the absolute form are—want of the regulating action of binocular vision during the fixation of near objects, the tendency to separate double images more widely, perhaps also the effort to exclude the high tension of accommodation associated with the difficult convergence. On the other hand, there are some causes which impede such a metamor- phosis, thus the impulse towards binocular vision and the limitation of the mobility of the eye outwards. Individual peculiarities decide ; just in analogy to the convergent strabismus caused by hypermetropia,' the absolute form is promoted by such conditions as facilitate motion outwards or take away the value of binocular vision. Inequality of refractive power must be specially mentioned iu respect to the latter. In short, hypermetropia causes accommodative asthenopia, which is actively overcome by convergent strabismus; myopia induces muscular asthenopia, which is passively avoided by divergent strabismus. A. von Grafe, on muscular asthenopia (' Arch. f. Ophth.,' vol. viii part 2, p. 314). ' ■ ' J. "VV". Ilullce, cases of abscess and of tumour of the orbit C Onhth Hosp. liep,,' iv, 88). ^ ^