341 STATISTICS^ ETC. forceps would, in the autlior'a opinion, have saved three. In opposition to the opinion of Dr. Murphy, who thinks " that, so far as children are concerned in protracted labour, the proportion of stillborn is very much the same, whether the forceps be employed or not," the author believes that many more children might be saved by their timely use ; and, in support of this proposition, compares the practice of Dr. Hamil- ton, of ralkirk, who holds the same view, with that of the Dublin Lying-in Hospital (in 1848), where the opposite prevailed. Of 731 labours. Dr. Hamilton employed the forceps in 90 cases, or i to 8, and in all these cases the children were born alive. Drs. Hardy and McClintock relate 18 forceps cases in 6634 labours, being i to 368'5 cases. Of these 18 cases, the mothers died in 5 and the children in 8. The author's own experience is directly corroborative of the opinion he advances. In the first ^00 cases he used the forceps in 8 cases, and in 4 of these the children were born dead ; in the last 500 he used them in 20 cases, and in all of these the children were born alive. Hence he believes that, in considering the indications for the use of the forceps, the danger to the child from protracted labour is not dwelt upon with the force and emphasis it deserves. In all the forceps cases, with one exception, chloroform was adminis- tered, the author's experience in this being directly opposed to the opinion of Dr. Meigs, " that the patient's retention of sensibility to pain is an important means of securing her safety in the use of this instrument." In operative cases the author has had the best proof of the perfect safety and great advantage of chloroform ; but in ordinary cases of labour he has so frequently found it retard, or even suspend, uterine action altogether, that he now never administers it in such cases, imless pressed by the patient to do so, and then only towards the close of the expulsive pains. (3) Of the 34 cases of "abnormal presentations," excluding 3 cases (2 breech and i footling), there occurred 9 breech, 4footling, 2 arm, 5 of the funis, i of the face, and 10 of the face to pubis. Of the 31 cases, 8 were primiparse, or i to 27-5 ; and 23 non-primi- parae, or i to 33 •9. Of the cases in which the presentation involved danger to the child from pressure on the cord, 6 were primiparse and 14 multipart; of the 9 breech cases, 6 of the children were born alive and 3 dead. ' In all the cases the breech was allowed to pass before any efforts were made to aid delivery. Of the 4 footling cases, 3 of the children died and i was born alive. In both the arm cases turning was performed under chloroform by means of one foot, and both children were saved, though both were at first asphyxiated. Of the 5 funis cases, 3 of the children died and 2 were saved; version performed in 2 cases, and the funis pushed up into the uterus in 2 cases. . In the face presentation delivery was not long delayed. Of the 10 cases of face to pubis the labour was tedious, and in 2 the forceps were required. (4) The 21 cases of " compUcated labour" include 3 of