286 REPOUT ON SUEGERY. Treatment.—According to Mr. Pollock, the swindler in the streets who, to avoid conviction, swallows a piece of false money, adopts a peculiar treatment. He avoids purgative medicine as worse than useless ; on the other hand, he has recourse to a constipating diet, and feeds for some days on hard-boiled eggs and cheese, in excess beyond his usual diet. Oily, mucilaginous drinks may be given ; all complica- tions, such as gastritis or vomiting, must be combated by the usual i-emedies. Mr. Poland is of opinion that gastrotomy cannot at present be recommended, and that it was probably superfluous in the cases where it has been performed, the foreign body being capable of natural expulsion. Professor Adelmann is not quite of the same opinion as Mr. Poland. In a lengthy paper, principally devoted to internal obstruc- tion of the small intestines (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1863, ii, 29), he gives a table of nine cases in which the stomach was opened for the re- moval of foreign bodies, according to which death only once ensued. On the other hand, it is advisable to delay any operative proceedings as much as possible till the stomach or intestine has united to the abdominal wall. Monro's proposition, to favour such union by exciting a circumscribed inflammation of the abdominal wall by means of caustics, has been employed with success in cysts of the liver. E. Billroth, extraction of a needle from the abdomen (' Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' i, 52). Dr. Legendre, on accidental anus (' Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,'V, 227). Prof. Oppolzer, on traumatic peritonitis ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, pp. 25, 41). "W". G-ruber, abscess in cavum prseperitoneale (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' iii, i^i, 366). M. Blanchet, on cathe- terism of the duodenum, &c. (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 555). J. C. Came- ron, on the treatment of abscess of the liver ('Lane.,' 1863,1,631). M. Trousseau, on repeated acupunctui-e as a means of causing imion between the walls of the abdomen and cysts (' Gaz. des H6p.,' 1863, p. 537), and on hydatids (' Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, pp-. 45,53). HEEWIA. E. Coulson speaks strongly in favour of the operation for strangulated hernia without opening the sac (' Arch. Gen.,' 1863, i, 273, &c.). Among other advantages of this method of operating, he notes that the intestine is less liable to be wounded, and that if any artery is opened, the blood flows outwards and cannot escape into the peritoneal cavity; the ha?mor- rhage is at once perceived, and a ligature can be readily applied, if the incision is somewhat prolonged. In the operation it is sometimes difficult to recognise with certainty the sac. The surgeon wUl do well to remember that it is not con- tinuous with the margins of the ring, as are the other layers. By passing the finger round the pedicle, some more yielding spot may generally be found; it is there that the bistoury should be passed. The stricture having been divided, great care must be used in the reduction not to rupture the sac, or otherwise injure the bowel. The taxis should be continued for some time, the index finger of the left hand bemg applied to the neck of the tumour, so that reduction may not take place en masse, as ia so liable to occur when the ring is large and the strangu-