EEPORT ON SUnGERY. 198 " I would not go so far as to draw in every case an absolute line between the secondary and tertiary stages, nor to Bay that because ulterior changes had commenced tliat all secondary had been removed; for in cachectic patients, in whom it could not be said tliat degeneration of the tissues had not commenced, it would seem sometimes as if syphi- litic taint had also not quite disappeared." Effects of mercury.—"The opiuions held regarding it are apparently most conflicting, some of the older school maintaining that the prolon- gation of our cases at the present day is due to a less abundant use of mercury in the attempt to cure the disease locally, whilst many of the modern school refer the ravages of syphilis of former days to the uni- versal and too free administration of the drug at that period ; thej' point to the caries and necrosis of the bones, shown by the destruction of „arge portions of the cranium, as evidence of the superiority of the later to the older method. These statements are probably both correct, and by no means incompatible. It will be perceived that it is assumed that the eft'ects of syphilis and mercuiy are alike, and therefore it may be asked whether the question could ever arise were we properly acquainted with the peculiar effects of each. I believe there are many eminent men who hold the opinion that some of the worst forms of disease ob- served in syphilitic patients, especially the necrosis of bones, are due to mercury, and thus the greater frequency of this form of disease in by- gone years, when this metal was more freely and more indiscriminately administered. But how is this to be reconciled with the fact that mercury does not affect the bones ? Experiments have been made re- peatedly on animals, and all observers have agreed that the bones are not affected by the drug. Moreover, mercurialism is continually pro- duced in artificers in quicksilver ; of such I have seen several cases, where paralysis had existed so as to deprive the patient of locomotion, where the mind also had been impaired, and, in fact, the whole body undergoing decay, and yet the bones had escaped. It has been said also thaL mercury produces other effects resembling those of syphilis, but of this there is even less proof. The opposite of such statement I believe to be nearer the truth, the tendency of syphilis in the constitu- tion being to the production of a plastic lymph in the tissues, whereas the effects of mercury are the very reverse; they are, indeed, antagonistic, tending to the absorption of new tissue, if such exist—and if it do not, to the destruction of the old. In syphilis there is a forma- tive action, in mercury a destructive one. "I think all such contradictory opiuions to which I have alluded are clearly explicable if the division of the subject according to the secondary and tertiary forms of the disease be strictly maintained, or rather, as I would have it, into syphilis and its sequelae. The former, or secondary, shows the effects of the virus in the albuminous deposi- tions, whilst the tertiary exhibits the degeneration of the tissues due to the morbid action so long in process. Mercury is antagonistic to the first, but in unison with the second. It does not produce symptoms like those of the former, but only of tlie latter; but these are not syphilitic at all, but due to cachexia merely. JMercury, therefore, is antagonistic to the syphilitic condition, promoting tlie absorption of the lymph, which is pvo'ne to be thrown out, but is at the same time a