IIESPIEATOIIY SYSTEM. 147 approximate more to syncope or asphyxia. The obstacles to recovery m suspended animation are four-.—(i) Coagulation of the blood. If this has occurred, life is extinct, but it is often delayed many hours, and never occurs within twenty minutes after the cessation of the circulation. (2) Blockage of the respiratory tract. This is mostly remediable, and so is (3) suspension of oxidation, if the blood can be brought into contact with air. (4) Broken blood-column. This is the great hindrance to reanimatiou. The break occurs in the pulmonic circuit, and is simply explained. Whenever, in any given case, the right side of the heart fails to propel its column of blood, or the lungs refuse to accept the column, the break occurs. Then the left side of the heart, having no change of blood, closes in permanent systole; then the arteries contract in their systole; then the right side of the heart, unable from the first to propel blood along empty vessels, and force open the contracted left heart, fails, moment upon moment, its own supply of sustaining blood through the coronary arteries being reduced; for a time it lives supported by the blood which it contains in its own cavities, but the life is imperfect, and the required labour enormous. When the current of blood from the right to the left side is unbroken, it is as a syphon stream flowing under the gentlest pressure from behind ; but the syphon stream divided, a force is required equivalent to three times that of the health-actirig ventricle to drive into the arterial scale the blood which is essential to every act of life. All the obstacles above named apply with greater or lesser force in every case. There are at the same time certain diflferences dependent on the degree of muscular irritability remaining after the difFei'cnt forms of death. This property continues longest after death by chloroform, the average duration being one hour and eleven minutes. Next, after sudden strangulation, the average being forty-six minutes. Next, after death by rapid suffocation in carbonic acid, the average duration being twenty-nine minutes. Next, after slow suffocation, either by obstruction or inhalation of carbonic acid, the average duration being from fifteen to twenty minutes. Next, after death by drowning, the average duration at common tempera- tures in adult animals being from five to fifteen minutes. Richardson next proceeds to examine the means for restoring animation. He finds artificial respiration to succeed very seldom. In 78 experiments, in which the action of the heart of the animal operated on had positively stopped, artificial respiration produced not the faintest result. The modes of death were various—by chloroform, by carbonic acid, by drowning, by strangulation. In 27 experiments simple air was used for inhalation, the temperature being changed in series from 60° to 110° Fahr., and the experiment being commenced in every case within five minutes after the cessation of the circulation, and in 19 cases within one minute after the ilast contraction. The respiration was made in every case with double- acting bellows. These on one side removed air from the lungs; on the other side they filled from the air, on expansion. In closure they charged the lungs with pure air, and cast the impure air which they had removed into space. They were always applied gently, so as to imitate as nearly as possible the natural respiration of the animal. In every one of these ■ cases no indication of reanimation was ever presented. On opening the bodies the lungs in more than half the cases were found emphysematous;