UTEUINE AND EXTRA-UTERINE PREGNANCY. 855 3. Whether, supposing the existence of such adhesions to be admitted, it is advisable or justifiable to remove the foetus alone, with the cer- tainty of a portion of the liquor amnii escaping into the peritoneal cavity, and with the possibility of the jjlacenta becoming encysted, and being thro'wn off at a future period. The second case is recorded by Dr. J. Pennefatber ('Lancet,' vol.i, 1863, p. 688). A lady, £et. 38, the mother of five children, miscarried in August, 1861, and again became pregnant in the following October. From the time of conception she felt unusually unwell, and suffered much from constipation. While dressing, on April 3rd, 1862, she was seized with acute pain in the abdomen, which was relieved by purgatives. Much tenderness, however, remained; and she was unable to lie on either side, but more especially the left. Constipation continued during pregnancy, and vomiting and flatulence distressed her much. The abdomen continued to increase until it attained an enormous size; the stomach now retained little else than brandy and water, and sleep was only obtained by large doses of morphia. On September 4th, after a labour of six hours, a full-grown female infant was born. Trom the size of the abdomen, her medical attendant suspected a twin case; but after careful examination, the tumour was considered to be ovarian. The author now saw her. A large hard tumour was felt to the left of the umbilicus ; and, with some difficulty, the foetal heart was heard. Ergot was giveu, and found to act powerfully on the uterus, but the tumour was not influenced by it. Half an hour after it was given no foetal move- ments could be distinguished. The uterus now ascended considerably, and the author regarded the case as one of coexisting intra- and extra- uterine pregnancy. The patient, who had previously been mucb emaciated, after this rapidly gained flesh, and for three months her general health steadily improved. In the early part of February, bow- ever, hectic set in, with distressing diarrhoea and profuse sweats, the pulse ranging from 120 to 160. On February i4tb her medical attendant detected fluctuation in the left iliac region. Concluding that this arose from fluid in the ovary, and with the perfect concurrence of two other practitioners, a full-sized trocar was plunged into the tumour. No fluid flowed, and on withdrawing the trocar it was covered with fa3ces. The patient was kept on her back, and the wound healed rapidly. The hectic immediately subsided, and for a few days all the urgent symptoms were much relieved. The bowels then became trou- blesome, tenesmus occurred, and the emaciation was extreme. On the loth of March the abdominal tumour had become much smaller, and from the constant tenesmus, and the immense quantities of faecal matter passed, it was thought the tumour might be caused by an accumulation of fasces in the rectum. Examination of the bowel by the finger caused intense pain, but while using the speculum ani a bone of the foetal skull was seen at the orifice of the vagina. The patient was now put under chloroform, and the vagina dilated by a large speculum. Th6 parietal and occipital bones were first brought away, and after the clavicles and scapulae had been extracted, firm traction on the sternum