359 ABORTION. ABOBTIOK. Dr. Storer, in a paper—the first of a series—entitled " Studies of Abortion" ('Boston Med. and Surg. Journal,' Feb., 186.3), urges tbat the same success maybe accomplished in the treatment of abortion, Avliich, during late years, has attended the treatment of all stages of labour at the full time. The causes of an immediately or secondarily fatal result of labour at the full period are few ; in abortion nearly every one of these is present, with the addition of others peculiar to the sudden and untimely interruption of a natural process and the death of the product of conception. He then dwells upon another and by no means unimportant element—a degree of mental disturbance, often profound, from disappointment or fear,—that to tbe same extent may be said to exist rarely in labours at the full period. It is extremely important that the nature of the abortion should be clearly under- stood, and that we should be able to distinguish between proximate and predisposing causes. " How different, for instance, the nature of abortions arising from mechanical violence, external or internal, from a general virus pervading the maternal or foetal system—from disease of the uterine walls, or of the placental tissue, or tbe acci- dental extravasation of blood between them—and how different sbould be the treatment, although so generally the same." In the diagnosis of abortion there is often much difficulty, for there is scarcely a phase of uterine or ovarian disease that may not simulate, or be simulated by, some form_of abortion; and there is scarcely one that may not induce, or be induced by, the same disturbance of gestation. The partially detached ovum has been mistaken for polypus, the expulsive contractions of the uterus for intestinal flatulence, the cachexia from retention of a dead and putrid foetus or membranes for malignant or other incurable disease. In the treatment, the duty of the practitioner is, in most cases, not—as is generally attempted—to complete the abnormal process as soon as possible, but to arrest it; for even in cases where the danger to the foetus appears most immi- nent, its life can be saved. If, however, the expulsion of the ovum be already effected, or be beyond prevention, the process should be thorouglily completed. An able exposition of the fallacy of statistics, in determining the com- parative infrequency of abortions, concludes the paper. Taking the same statistics from which Churchill and Clay argue that thei-e are more than sevcnty-eUjld labours at the full period to every abortion, the author shows, by a tabular statement, that while one observer, Madame la Chapelle, places the frequency of abortions as low'as one to every one hundred and eigldij-nine labours, another, Deubel, who was probably just as unbiassed, supposed it to be one to twelve, a difterence of over seventeenfold; while Churchill himself, though broadly stating the proportion to be one to seventy-eight labours, in reality had found it by his .own experience to be at least one to ever^ twenty-six labours. But putting aside the absence of any evident ratio, or law of increase or decrease, between the total number of cases presented and their respec-