INFANTICIDE. 455 tion of congula at the seat of fracture, are by no means peculiar to injuries inflicted on tlie living subject. Extravasations of blood, usually more or less coagulated, were almost constantly found in these experi- ments, and the other appearances mentioned were far from infrequent. Appended to this paper are reports of nine cases in which the facts ascertained by these experiments were applied. In Cases i and 4 the fractures were far more numerous than those observed in these investi- gations; but, fj"oni the characters presented by the broken edges of the bones, it was concluded that the injuries had occurred after death. Prof. Luschka ('Jlenle's Ztchrft. f. rat. Med.,' xviii, p. 188) draws at- tention to the peculiar condition of the lips in newly born children, con- sisting of an outer smooth zone and an inner villous zone, with a well- marked furrow between them. When the mouth is gently closed, the ap- pearance of a double lip is produced. The inner zone is obliterated as the infant grows older. It is of interest, chiefly because after death it becomes dry and brown, resembling an eschar, the desiccation extending even into the submucous tissue. In a case recorded by Maschka (' Prag. Vjschrft.,' 1863, vol. iii, p. 13), this appearance gave rise to the idea that death arose from viofence, and it might easily suggest the suspicion that sulphuric acid or some other destructive agent had been administered. In the same paper, Maschka observes that a dried, parchment-like con- dition of the umbilical cord of an infant is no proof that it lived after birth ; the funis itself undergoes exactly the same changes in the dead as in the living child. Haemorrhage from the umbilical cord very rarely occurs in children who breathe well, and in whom it is not cut very short. The absence of blood in the body is an important indication of this mode of death ; but it is well to remember that decomposition may also cause the disappearance of blood from a corpse. In a case related by Mascarel ('Un. Med.,' Ixxviii, 1863) the fact that no hsemorriiage had occurred from the funis, though no ligature had been applied, led to the conclusion that suffocation was probably effected during birth rather than after its completion. A folded cloth was tied over the face, so as to cover the mouth and nose. If this cloth had not been found in situ, it would have been impossible to say how the asphyxia had been occasioned, for no mark was produced by it on the neck or face. Dr. Chleborad ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' p. 60) gives a case of infanticide in which suffocation seems to have been produced in rather an unusual way. A cloth twisted up into a cord was found passing under the left armpit and over the chin and the right side of the head, so as to bind the head down to the left shoulder. It produced a deep furrow in the skin, and an ecchymosis and swelling in tlie temporal region; it was therefore evidently applied during life. Chleborad ascribed death to the forcible compression of the chest and neck. Another case given by Maschka (loc. cit.) is the follow- ing :—An infant was found dead, and an argument in favour of death having occurred from violence was drawn from the fact that the nostrils appeared to be compressed, and the tip of the nose flattened. This was, however, set aside by Maschkn, on the ground that during the first hour after death parts return to their original position as soon as pressure is removed. It is only when rigor mortis is coming on that a permanent distortion can be produced by compression.