207 SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. softening, persist after the other external syphilitic symptoms have improved under the employment of specific treatment. Tor example, a patient suffering from gummata of the skin becomes hemiplegic, the cutaneous tubercles disappear under constitutional treatment, the para- lysis continues; still it was due to syphilis, for at the autopsy a tertiary syphilitic tubercle was found in the corpus striatum of the opposite side. But the plastic deposit was surrounded by cerebral matter inflamed and softened, and it was this acute cerebral softening that caused the fever, the convulsions, and the muscular contractions, which made their appearance nearly a month and a half after the occurrence of the hemiplegia. Thus a new series of difficulties occur to increase the chance of an erroneous diagnosis. In such cases we must remem- ber that tumours of the brain, by their situation and by the compres- sion of surrounding parts, may induce inflammation, which then becomes the most important, and sometimes fatal, disease. It is not surprising that specific treatment fails to cure the cerebral affection in such cases, occasioned, though it be, by the syphilitic diathesis. The problem becomes still more difficult when the patient suffers from some nervous or cerebral disease, and yet has no manifest symp- tom of the syphilitic diathesis. It is obvious that the difficulties in diagnosis must greatly increase when the syphilitic symptoms are separated from the disease of the nervous system by a long period of time. Such cases require the most careful and attentive research, not only into their history, but for any trace of the pre-existence of syphi- litic affections on those parts of the body which are accessible to exami- nation. There is a class of cases in which the presence of syphilis as a determining cause is too frequently overlooked, and for which the only efficient remedy is thus unemployed. An example will render this more intelligible. Suppose that we are called to see a young man, not above twenty-eight years of age, suffering from hemiplegia. In such a case, although there is no symptom indicative of syphilis present, the ractitioner recognises, as the result of experience, that cerebral semorrhage in one so youug is an exceedingly rare condition, and that paralytic, apoplectiform seizures occur as the result of syphilis. He therefore inquires into the previous history, and finds that at some an- tecedent date there is good reason to believe that the patient has had syphilis. He is now in possession of a fact which may lead him to further researches, and eventually to a rational diagnosis. The treat- ment may finally confirm the decision, by rapidly relieving the morbid symptoms presented by the patient. In exceptional cases no satisfac- tory results, however, occur, even Avhen the treatment has been both carefully and rationally conducted; allowance must be made for the effects which continuance of the lesion of the nervous system must have produced on the surrounding parts. From what has been said, it may be inferred that a study of the history of any such case, with a thorough acquaintance of the various aspects under which syphilis may show itself, should enable the practi- tioner, in the majority of cases, to arrive at a decided and satisfactorv diagnosis. We must not, however, forget the difficulties, which beset us, in tracing such histories, from the ignorance or untruth of patients