EEMOViL OP THE TIIYEOID GLAND. m NECK. Thjroid Gland. H. Lebert, the diseases of the thyroid gland, and their treatment (pp. 8 and .314, Breslau, Maruschke and Berendt). Dr. Voss removed an enlarged thyroid gland from a lady aged 54 ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, i, 10). It had existed for forty-two years, and during the last seven years had occasioned such difficulty in swallowing and breathing that ultimately she was unable to lie down. The size of the tumour before the operation was equal to that of a clenched fist; the trachea was pushed towards the right side. The gland was removed without difficulty; a long incision having been made, it was separated for some distance, and the rest of the operation finished with the ecraseur. Dr. "Wood, in some remarks on this case, stated that a few operations of the same kind had been performed in ISTew York, and that he knew that two of them had died from venous hsemorrhage. M, Gouget, epidemic of acute goitre (' Arch. Gren.,' 1863, i, loi). A. Klein, dissertation on the surgical treatment of bronchocele (Tubingen, i860 ; 'Arch. f. Klin, Chir,.' iii, Bericht, p. 286). Prof Oppolzer, rheu- matic inflammation of cervical vertebrtB ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1862, pp. 503, 511). E. Semeleder, on inflammation of the cellular tissue of the neck ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 265, &c). O. Storch, on congenital hygroma of the neck ('Joum. f. Kinderkr.,' vol. 37, p. 68). M. Verneuil, tumour of the parotid (' Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1863, p. 439, &c). L. J. Bauchet, on hypertrophy of the parotid (' Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' 7,289). Larynx. T. Bryants states ('Brit. Med. Jour,,' 18/53, h 44^) ttiat when tracheotomy is performed on account of a foreign lody in the air-passages, " chloroform should be administered preparatory to the operation, as it may be given with perfect safety; for it not only tends considerably to prevent the spasm of the laryngeal muscles by allaying their irritability, but it enables the surgeon to perform his difiicult duties with calmness and precision. A free section of the trachea is always to be made, in order to allow of a free passage for the expulsion of the foreign body; and in the majority of cases, this foreign body will Jje expelled as soon as the opening in the trachea has been accomplished. If any difficulty be experienced in obtaining this result, the child's body may be tilted upwards and the head downwards, to favour the gravitation of the sub- stance ; and a good shake or pat upon the back will at times dislodge it from its position, and consequently assist in securing its expulsion. If these means fail in carrying out the object for which they were under- taken, the child must be left alone; the opening in the trachea should, however, be made large, or even valvular, and means adopted to preserve its patency ; so that, should the foreign body by any chance be subse- quently dislodged from its position, its expulsion may be secured. The larynx itself should be always most carefully examined, not only before but after the operation; for it is not an uncommon thing to find the