BEPOnt ON PBACTICAL MEDICINE. 51 nflfechons occur in tlie snnic localities, and (a) also during the same periods of time. (3) Both nffectiona liave the same prodromnta. (4) Tlie phenomena of hotl> are more or less similar. (<;) Acne and furuncles lire chronic, like the fthrilc dyscrasia; carbuncle,is acute and perilous, like a pernicious intermittent. (6) Tlie same remedies are successfid in both species. (7) The patliological changes are in many respects similar. (8) The same morbid process is probably concerned in the genesis of these disorders. The author supposes that the decaying blood-cells in malarious cachexia give rise to pigment-granules, which, being arrested in the cutaneous capillaries, produce acne, furuncles, and anthrax, according to the greater or less vital power of the individual. CiiASSAGNE.—Gaz. des Hopit, 62, 1863. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 119, Relates the case of a soldier in Algeria, who on five separate occasions had two paroxysms of intermittent fever, the second being succeeded by a copious eruption of herpes labialis and of furuncles on the limbs, which appeared to be critical, and put an end to the disorder for the time. No quinine was taken. Wise, T. A., M.D.—On the HcEmostatic Treatment of Cholera, Ucemor- rhage. Exhaustion, ^c. Dub. Quar. Journ. of Med. Sc., Aug., 1863. The object of this communication is to recommend the use of the tour- niquet during the cold stage of ague, in choleraic collapse, and similar states. He states—(i) 13y its obstructing the circulation, it immediately stops the distressing cramps of the extremities in cholera. (2) liy in- creasing the quantity of the circulating fluid in the trunk, and thereby stimulating the heart's action, it removes morbid congestion, stops the secretions from the bowels, increases the animal heat, and powerfully tends to restore health. (3) By improving the vigour of the system, medicines act more powerfully, and in a more salutary manner, in removing morbid actions. (4) When the reaction has taken place, by loosening the tour- niquets with care, the determination of blood to the internal parts is di- minished by its diffusion over the extremities upon which the tourniquet had been placed. They are immediately to be retightened when there is any coldness or weakness experienced, or any tendency to relapse. This must be most carefully watched for and prevented. (^) By increasing the volume of blood in the contracted circulation, the force of the heart is increased, local congestions are I'emoved, and the whole system is strengthened. Donaldson, J., M.D.—On the treatment of Fever. ]\Iadras Quart. Jour, of Med. Sc., April, 1863. Donaldson has made trial of cobweb in the treatment of intermittent, remittent, and common continued fever in India, and reports very favora- bly of it. The dose is gr. v, in pill, ter die, or oftcner. It may be given advantageously during the paroxysms as well as in the intermissions; and, as Donaldson himself testifies from personal experience, quickly and gratefully relieves the almost insupportable headache and restlessness of an ncntc ntfack. In quartans and other inveterate forms of fever, which