IIEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL JIKDICI.VE. 13!l DUCHEK.—Oh Obliteration of the Aorta at the point of entrance of the Duct. Botallii. Wien. Wchnbl., xviii, 37—39, 1862. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 117, p. 39. Ducbelc lays stress 011 the injurious effects of this obliteration in con- sequence of the iuBufliciency of the collateral circulation. The obstruction may produce no serious disorder for a long time, until some casual circumstance—a mental emotion, an unusual effort, or an intercurrent disease—makes the compensatory apparatus insufficient. Symptoms of heart disease then appear, general dropsy, or sudden death, as in Rdmer's case. The following conclusions are ai'rived at from a review of 51 cases :—(i) In the first period of infanc)^ soon after, or during the development of the stenosis, there died—as far as was clearly ascertained —only 2 patients manifestly in consequence of the rapid development of the obstruction. (2) After a longer continuance of the stenosis there died 38 patients, the majority between the ages of 20 to 50 years, only a few between 50 and 60. (a) Laceration of the heart and great vessels occurred in 18 cases under the age of 20. (6) When the disease lasted longer, general dropsy occurred and marasmus, and death ensued with one exception during the dropsy (8 cases, or 20 per cent.), (c) In 3 cases death ensued suddenly, (d) In 16 cases the patients died of accidental diseases not connected with the stenosis, and almost all affecting the respiratory organs, as of pneumonia 9, of pleurisy 2, of bronchitis i. Uuchek is inclined to attribute this in part to increased pressure within the lesser circulation, (e) One patient, aged 92, died of senile marasmus. lloBEKXS, W., M.D.—On the successful use of Pot. lodidi in the Treat- ment of Aneurism. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 24th. Roberts records three cases, in two of which decided advantage appeared to result from the administration of Pot. lod. In the first case the patient had a soft pulsating elevation rising about a quarter of an inch above the surrounding level; the first bone of the sternum and its immediate vicinities were observed to be bulged out, and to be the seat of a heaving pulsation. Over the bulging parts there was an area of duluess, measuring transversely four and a half inches and vertically three and a half inches. Under the use of Pot. lod. the bulging dimi- nished, and the dulness area shrank to three and a half inches transversely and two and a quarter vertically. In the second case a projection of the clavicle to the amount of half an inch subsided almost to its natural position, while cough, pain, dyspnoea, dysphagia, and hsemoptysis ceased. OsBORN, A. G,—Brit. Med. J., Feb. 7th. Records a case of aneurism of the aorta pressing on the superior vena cava. Haldane—Edin. Med. J., Jan. Reports the case of a female, cet. 50, in whom three abdominal aneurisms underwent a spontaneous cure by calcareous degeneration of fibrine coagulating in their interior. The first aneurism involved the