467 VACCMATION. children may not be the bearers of some latent poison. The offspring of healthy married persons should alone be used to maintain the supply of lymph. Up to the year 1852 vaccine matter for Venetia and the adjacent provinces was obtained from London ('Giorn. Venet. d. Scien. Med.;' 'Canstatt,' loc. cit.), but in that year the vaccinations altogether failed, and it was therefore resolved to keep up a constant supply of lymph in the country itself. Each year five or six healthy young cows are nocu- lated with lymph taken from the arm of an infant on the eighth day after vaccination. It is introduced by a needle or lancet into the teats and surrounding parts, as well as into the neighbourhood of the vulva and anus. The position of the parts inoculated is noted, and after four or five days their condition is observed by a committee appointed for the purpose, and the day of opening the pustules is determined on. It is usually the seventh, or, at latest, the eighth day. The lymph is taken directly from the pustule into capillary tubes, whicli are distributed over the whole country. Up to the present time vaccination of children with this lymph has never failed. If the inoculation in the cow does not succeed, it is repeated two or three times till a good pustule is obtained. Goldoni, who suggested these arrangements, also proposed the imposition of a fine to be paid by parents and guardians who omit to have their children vaccinated within the first six months of their life. He also recommends revaccina- tion every ten years, as the most likely plan to eradicate smallpox. Dr. Vleminex draws the following conclusions from 2000 revaccina- tions performed with great care. (' Gaz. Hebd.', p. 377). (i) Revaccination in persons already well vaccinated produces very little effect. (2) It is more likely to succeed in proportion to the length of time which has elapsed since vaccination was performed, or since an attack of smallpox occurred. (3) Itis generally useless up to the twenty- fifth year. Between the twenty-fifth and the thirty-fifth year it succeeds in a small number of cases. (4) After the thirty.fifth year it is in most instances necessary to ensure protection from variola. (5) When revacci- nation is unsuccessful, the susceptibility to it may return at a later period j it may therefore be tried a second time. Angenstein ('Casper,' xxi; 'Canstatt,' S. A., p. 44) has during the last ten years revaccinated 10,682 prisoners in Cologne, Those who had been operated on uniformly escaped variola, though it was several times intro- duced by new prisoners, and spread among the officers who were not revaccinated, and among those prisoners who had recently been admitted. M. Bouley ('Un.Med.,' 79, 1863) relates the following extraordinary oc- currence :—A horse was affected with stomatitis. The fluid from its mouth was inoculated into the dugs of a cow, and produced there a pustule resembling the cow-pox. From this an infant, aged eleven months, was inoculated with the cow-pox, and in fifteen of the pupils at the the school at Alfort pustules, such as occur in the vaccinella of Rayer, were produced by the introduction into their bodies of fluid from the same cow. Another horse was also inoculated from the cow, on a white spot of its skin ; at the end of ten days, some vaccinal pustules developed them- selves. The account of the method in which the fluid was obtained from the horse's mouth in the first instance is not very satisfactory. On the