CAUSES OF STRABISMUS. tions of Dr. Doycr and Prof. Bonders on fifteen emmetropic eyes, :;-o82° ; its maximum is f, its minimum 3-5°. Thus, when the visual lines are parallel, or in other words, wlicn a man with normal eyes looks straight forward, the corneal axes diverge, and form with one another an angle of 2X5°=io°. Now, we naturally decide from the direction of the corneal axes in what direction the eyes are looking, and yet this (physiological) divergence gives us the impression of parallel- ism, and not of (pathological) divergence, simply because it is the normal condition. This angle, however, becomes greater in hyper- metropia, smaller or even negative in myopia; there is, therefore, often pseudo-strabismus divergens in the former, in the latter pseudo-strabis- jiius convergens ; in the former the divergence may increase from 10° to 18°, in the latter may assume even a negative value of 9°. Such deviations depend upon peculiarities in the structure of hypermetropic and myopic eyes. Bonders is inclined to think that the so-called strabismus incongruus of J. Miiller is nothing more than the pseudo- strabismus here described. (2) Convergent strahismns is in most cases connected with hyper- metropia (in 133 out of 172 cases). The latter is the primary affection, for it is present at the very commencement of the so-caUed periodical strabismus, and such a commencing squint at once disappears on the correction of the refractive condition. The tendency to strabismus is excited in these cases by the great efforts to accommodate which the hypermetropic patient is obliged constantly to make, and especially in the vision of near objects; the squint is an iunnediate consequence of the intimate connection between the degree of convergence and that of accommodation. Two alternatives are presented to a hypermetropic patient:—(i) The instinctive employment of binocular vision; by this means he remains free from strabismus, but as he cannot then converge the eyes to the degree necessary for the correction of the optical defect, lie is obliged to be satisfied with only an indistinct perception of objects. (2) The instinctive use of distinct vision ; he abandons bino- cular vision and induces the necessary (pathological) convergence, or, in other words, he begins to squint. As, however, there are far more cases of hypermetropia uncomplicated than complicated with strabismus, it appears that there must be some special causes which induce the second course. Such are congenital differences in the acuteness of vision or in the refractive condition of the eyes, corneal opacities, and other conditions which diminish the importance of binocular vision, or such as facilitate the occurrence of convergence—peculiarities in the structure or innervation of muscles, or ready mobility of the eyes inwards. The very great angle between the visual line and corneal axis, which occurs in hypermetropia, might be expected also to promote the formation of a squint, for in such cases the eyes can only diverge to the necessary degree with difiiculty; and thus if the regulating influence of binocular vision is once lost, convergence ensues. This supposition is confirmed by a number of cases tabulated by Bonders ; they show that under similar conditions a large angle of divergence forms a special predisposition to strabismus. In the highest degrees of hypermetropia strabismus is rarely observed, because even an abnormal increase of the