llEPOUT ON MIDWIFBEY, ETC. 346 the back of the embryo, and the final coalescence of the approaching folds occurs in one point, after wliich the amnion remains for a time in connection with the serous envelope. Anomalies of this connection, whicli are most frequently caused by a deficiency of amniotic liquid, or by the secretion occurring too late, may interfere with the development of the embryo, of which the author communicates two cases— (1) On the body of a new-born child, weighing four and a half pounds, and nineteen inches in lengtli, a skinny, flaccid sac was found at the back of the cranium. This sac presented on its posterior aspect a fissure two inclies in length, and was covered with shreds resembling the amnion in appearance and structure. The right frontal bone, the parietal bones, and the occipital bone, were undeveloped. In the skull-cavity were eero-fibrous strings running from one side to the other. The palate was fissured. On the riglit hand the first three fingers were com- pletely amputated; from the metacarpal bone of the index to the stump of the middle finger ran a sero-fibrous string, having at its extremity an appendage as large as a pea, covered with normal skin. On the left hand were several strings which incompletely cut the thumb, divided the index fingers into two unequal halves, and compressed and bent the middle finger ; in place of the fourth and little fingers a small protuberance existed, covered with skin, and divided in several parts. On the left foot the second and third toes had grown together. On the right foot the third toe was attached to the fourth by a sero-fibrous cord; the ungual phalanx of the second was amputated. On the pla- centa were found indications of amniotic bands. (2) The second case related to a male foetus, born living, fifteen and a half inches in length. The frontal bone was not developed, and several scars existed on the forehead, which were connected internally with the dura mater, and through this at several points with the inner mem- branes of the brain; from these latter ran several torn pseudo-mem- branous strings. In place of .the nose, two, fissures existed. The upper lip was split in its right half, and attached to the right ala nasi; the left half was everted, together with its alveolar continuation. On the right hand the ungual phalanges of the three middle fingers were imperfectly developed, and from the end of the ring finger a cord about 2" in length ran under the middle to the iilnar side of the index finger. On the left hand, besides the thumb, all the fingers were imperfectly developed, the last three bent, and attached to each other by bands of skin. The right foot was clubbed, the left was normal in direction, but the phalanges of the fourth and fifth toes were very rudimentary; the rest only consisted of a rudimentary phalanx, without any trace of nail- formation, and connected with each other by bridges of skin ; on the second toe was a torn pseudo-membranous string. From the inner surface of the amnion, which appeared normal in appearance, several strings proceeded, 2" to 3" in length, hanging free in the amniotic cavity, or attached to opposite points. At the point of insertion of the umbilical cord, near the edge of the placenta, roughened, a spot existed, denuded of amnion, from which several thin shreds and strings proceeded.