congress, 2nd session, 1862 (Paris, J. ]3. Baillierc). 11. Gritti, on the UKrOllT ON SUllGUIiy. iieous separation of the sequestrum rarely onsuoB ; it reiimiuB to koimc extent in organic connccf ion with tlie osteopIiytcH, and ultimately, after a number of niontha, a year, or oven more, an operation lias to be per- formed, in which both the sequestrum and the osteopliytes are removed together; in some cases, however, tlic sequestrum can be dragged out of the uewly-formed shell without dilllculty. A surgeon does not usually determine on an operation for the extraction of a large sequestruin, affecting the whole thickness of the bone, until osteophytes have formed, sufficient to form a bridge between the healthy portions of the bone, and to preserve the continuity of the maxillary arch ; for otherwise deformity is invariably produced by the lateral displacement of the chin. On tlie other hand, it should be remembered that the necrosis may spread further, attack the osteophytes, and ultimately require the removal of all the side of the jaw. The patients suft'er much in their general health ; the unavoidable mixture of pus and fetid products with the saliva and food excite pharyngeal catarrh, and interfere with digestion. The latter eifects would be of still greater importance in children ; fortunately the course of the disease appears to be different in them—the sequestrum soon becomes loose, and is thrown off before the process has become chronic and produced osteophytes, thus pieces, in- cluding the whole thickness of the bone, may come away in a very short time. Necrosis of the whole jaw from rheumatic periostitis is certainly very rare ; to remove such a sequestrum— and sooner or later it becomes necessary—is equivalent to extirpation of the whole bone. The author describes such a case, in which Professor Laugenbeck removed the whole lower jaw. I\ Jordan, on ligature of the carotid- in progressing extravasation of blood within the cranium ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, i, 612). Dis- cussion on a tumour of the head (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, pp. 54.3, 55.5). T. Bilh'oth, case of meningocele spuria cum fistula ventriculi cerebri ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir., iii, 398). E. Gintrac, on hydi-omeningocele (ib., Gurlt's report, p. 308). Jaios.—Von Pitha, on exarticulatiou of the inferior maxilla ('"Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1862, pp. 673, 689, 705). M. Eizzoli, on inti-a- buccal removal of inferior maxilla (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 293). Prof. Linhart, extraction of the roots of two teeth from the antrum (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 215). G. Simon, osteoplastic resections (' Deutsche Klinik,' 1863, p. 81). EYE. E. Liebreich, atlas of ophthalmoscopy (BerL, Hirschwald). T. Samisch, contributions to the normal and pathological anatomy of the eye (pp. 36, Leipz., Engelmann). H. Snellen, test-types for the deter- mination of the acuteness of vision (Lond., Williams and Norgate). P. Giraud-Teulon, lessons on strabismus and diplopia (Paris, J. B. BailliSre), H. W. Williams, practical guide to the study of the dis- eases of the eye (Boston, U.S.). M. Pollin, lessons on the" examination . of the eye, &c. (Paris, A. Delnhaye). Compte-rendu of the ophthaliuic