354 REPORT ON MIDWIl'ERYj ETC. left side, no unusual symptoms were present during pregnancy. On external examination, tlio abdominal tumour was more defined and spiierical than usual, tilted forwards, and considerably to tlie left side, Avitli its apex on a level with, and about two inches to the left of tlie umbilicus, so that ovarian disease was at first suspected. A furtlier examination revealed tlie undoubted existence of a living foetus, and a placental souffle was heard over a largo portion of the tumour. A vaginal examination showed the canal much elongated, its ruga; oblite- rated, and the os uteri beyond reach. Suspecting an abnormal gestation, Mr. Spencer Wells and Dr. Kumar (Vienna) now saw the patient with the author. It was thought tlie sounds of two foetal hearts could be heard, while the extensive surface over which the placental bruit was audible gave a suspicion of two placentaB. At this time the pains were so slight and at such long intervals that, after the bladder had been emptied and a sedative administered, the patient was left. She passed a good night, and by 6 p.m. next evening the expulsive pains were strong and regular. On examination, the sacral concavity was now found occupied by a firm, resisting, rounded tumour, presenting no trace of fluctuation, and immovable under as much force as was justifiable between the pains. Its presence reduced the antero-posterior diameter of the inlet to less than two fingers' breadth, through which no 03 uteri could be felt; but, resting ou and anterior to the symphysis, the foetal head was recognised. Dr. Greenhalgh and Mr. Meates now saw the patient. The diagnosis was difficult, from the great anteversion of the uterus, but the obvious indication was to deliver the woman as speedily as possible. Chloroform being given, the tumour was with diffi- culty pushed out of the pelvis, and delivery accomj)lished by version. The placenta was removed without difficulty; no subsequent haemor- rhage occurred, but vomiting, dyspnoea, and great abdominal pain supervened next day, and slie died about fortj^-eight hours after delivery. On opening the abdomen after death, the bod^ of a full-grown female foetus was foimd within, its membranes unruptured and distended with liquor amnii. The anterior surface of the chorion was in immediate relation with the abdominal peritoneum, to which it was not adherent, nor was it enclosed in a capsule of any kind. Beneath the tumour the uterus lay, partially contracted and unruptured. In the peritoneal cavity was much grumous fluid. On opening the membranes and removing the foetus, it was found that the placenta was situated in and firmly attached to a shallow capsule, formed of the expanded and en- larged fimbria; of the right Fallopian tube, which, on its convex or peritoneal aspect, was firmly bound down by numerous and very tough bands. A stylet could be passed along the tube to its expanded ex- tremity, where it was arrested by the placenta. The author remarks that the lessons derivable from this case are— 1. That in cases of doubtful tumours complicating parturition, evidence of an extra-uterine fostation should be sought for as soon as possible after delivery. 2. "Whether, in the event of sucli a discovery, it is or is not probable that the adhesions of the tumours may be so "firm and numerous as to render gastrotomy inadmissible.