CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 133 ori-in of the ccelinc axis ; tlie second that of the superior mesenteric ; tne third, smaller than the others, that of the left supra-capsukr and left renal arteries. Both the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric were com- pletely obliterated. An aneurism the size of a small apple projected against the trachea from the transverse portion of the arch. The aortic valves were incompetent. Cockle, J., M.D.—On Aneiirismal Tumours involving the Neck. Med. Tim. and Gaz., May i6th, 33rd, 30th. Cockle relates a case in which an aneurism of the ascending and transverse aorta formed a bipartite tumour in the right neck, extending from between the second and third right intercostal spaces to the angle of the jaw. There was agonising pain in the right side of the neck and shoulder, and paroxysms of suffocation occasionally occurred. With regard to differential diagnosis, he notices the possibility of con- founding an aneurisnr with ordinary strumous abscess, or with cystic growths, connected or not with the thyroid, with encephaloid tumours, and even with exaggerated arterial pulsation in exophthalmic goitre. Many aneurisms yield few or no peculiar signs, and none certainly that are pathognomonic, while, on the other hand, non-aneurismal tumours in contact with and pressing upon an artery may yield both shock and murmur. The distinction of the artery actually involved in the case of aneurism is often no easy matter. An aneurism originating in the aorta, and involving its tributaries, ruay ascend the neck even to the angle of the jaw J and, on the other hand, an innominate or even subclavian aneurism within the scaleni may descend the chest, pressing on or even displacing the aorta, and giving rise to intrathoracic dulness and murmur. Dilatation of the arch of the aorta and trunk of the innominata may much resemble aneurismal tumour, especially if the pressure has condensed the supra-clavicular portion of lung. Anomalies in the course of the innomi- nata may also cause phenomena much i-esembling those of aneurism, particularly when the upper bone of the sternum is short. With Dr. Holland's conclusions respecting aneurisms of the innominata he coin- cides on the whole, but excepts that variety which, either false or true, arises from the upper part of the ascending and angle of the transverse portion of the aorta, involving often the innominata and other arteries. These aneurisms, instead of inclining to the left, as Dr. Holland affirms of those of the transverse portion of the aortic arch, have a decided inclination to the right. It is almost exclusively this form which occa- sionally passes the first rib, and ascends the right cervical region. Cejka.—Prag. Vjhrschr., p. 89, 1863. Among his aphoristic observations on chest diseases, states that aneu- risms and tumours may sometimes be distinguished by careful examina- tion of other arteries. In aneurisms the corresponding arteries of opposite sides are of unequal diameter; those arising from an aneurism are usually of smaller size as compared with their fellows. This disparity is not observed in tumours, even when they press on arteries. The occurrence of a thrill (erzittern) in the tumour is decisive. I