DISEASES OP WOUrEN, 393 EXTIEPATIOJf OF THE tTTEEUS AND BOTH OVARIES. Dr. Clay, Manchester, relates a case of extirpation of the uterus and both ovaries (' Trans, of Obst. Soc, Lond.,' vol. v, p. 66). He had also performed this operation in 1844, and but for an accident on the thirteenth day, the patient promised to recover. The present case was that of a single lady who suffered from a large fibroid tumour of the uterus very closely simuhiting an ovarian tumour. This had latterly so completely filled, up the cavity of the pelvis, that the passage of the fseces and urine was rendered extremely difficult. The tumour was with great difficulty dislodged from the pelvis, and was partially covered with the broad ligaments, so that the ovaries, of which the right was diseased, lay close to it. A ligature was ajjplied immediately above the plane of the 03 uteri, and the tumour removed with very trifling lijBmorrhage; the integuments were brought together and secui'ed by six interrupted sutures, padded, bandaged, and the patient removed to bed in about fifteen minutes from the commencement of the operation. The tumour weighed eleven pounds. Sickness was troublesome during the first twenty-four hours, and symptoms of peritonitis occurred during the next three days, but the patient made a good recovery and returned home quite well on the thirty-fifth day from the operation. Prof. Simpson, who saw the patient, and the tumour immediately after the operation, remarks that this case may prove a precedent for extirpa- tion in some exceptional cases of large fibroids of the uterus. M. Kceberle, of Strasbourg, relates a similar case, ' Presse. Med. Beige,' November, 1863. Both ovaries and the uterus were removed just above the vaginal portion of the cervix, for a large fibroid tumour of the uterus, which weighed fifteen and a half pounds. In spite of a severe attack of bronchitis, the patient recovered well. Dl' SMENOIIEHCE A. Of the three forms, mechanical, congestive, and neuralgic, Dr. Greenhalgh ('Trans, of Obst. Soc.,' vol. v, p. i64,) believes the first to be by far the most frequent. Many cases which he formerly regarded and treated without success as examples of the two latter forms, have readily yielded to division of the os and cervix uteri, by the bilateral metrotome, which the author has invented. Of 2^5 cases in which the author has operated with this instrument 18 have benefited considerably; 20 were married, and 3 were single women. Of the married, 5 had children, but had been sterile for periods varying from four to eleven years ; 3 have since become pregnant. All these patients had been treated without success for dysmenorrhcea • 7 were cases of congenital, and 16 of induced dysmenorrhcea; n have been wholly free from pain since the operation ; 7 suflfer so little as not to fieed treatment; the remaining 5 are unrelieved. In 4 of these last chronic metritis still existed. The author has found the division of the oa and cervix uteri especially serviceable in (i) dysmenorrhcea, congenital