UKPOET ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE, I76i 606 were invalided nud 465 died. Ou the first occasion, venesection, leeching, and calomel in largo doses, or carried to salivation, was employed ; on the second, depiction was much less employed, and the free administra- tion of mercury was foreborne, wlnle ipecacuanha, as recommended by the Indian practitioners, was largely tried, as well as the older remedial agents. In presence of these facts, Nelson calls upon practitioners to decide whether the much-contemned practice of twenty years ago has not been superseded somewhat rashly, in consequence of its modified measure of success, for another, which, conforming to the quietism of the day, has brought about a series of results that in these times has no parallel. EwAiiT, J., M.D.—On Tropical Dysentery. Indian Annals of Med. Sc. No. 16, April, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Ciiir. Rev., July, 1863. With regard to the ipecacuanha treatment, Ewart recommends it in the congestive, exudative, and ulcerative stages of almost every form and type of acute dysentery, as well as in the acute attacks supervening upon chronic dysentery. Its advantages are—(i) its simplicity ; (2) its safety ; (3) its certainty, compared with any other method; (4) the promptitude with which the inflammation is stopped ; (5) the rapidity with wliich re- covery takes place by resolution, or by granulation and cicatrization ; (6) conservation of the constitutional powers; (7) abbreviation of the period required for convalescence ; (8) decrease in the frequency of chronic dysentery; (9) decrease in the frequency of abscess of the liver; (10) diminution of mortality to cases treated ; all of which are accomplished— (a) without local or general bloodletting, (6) without salivation, (c) without calomel and irritating purgatives, (d) without opium by the mouth. To the objections made against this treatment he replies that nausea is only temporary and evanescent; vomiting is an exceptional occurrence, and even when it does supervene it seldom lasts long. As much nourishment, therefore, as may be required to support the strength can be allowed in the intervals between the large doses of ipecacuanha. But what contributes more to the consei'vation of the patient's stamina and to the prevention of depression or asthenia, is the speedy cessation of the dysenteric process accomplished by the drug, followed by refreshing sleep, and the power of digesting and assimilating nourishing food. When uncontrollable sickness and vomiting succeed the employment of ipecacu- anha, it is more than probable that some serious complication exists, such—as (i) abscess of the liver, (2) unchecked aguish or malarious poison- ing. (3) irretrievable constitutional cachexia, (4) Addison's disease, (5) Bright's disease, (6) phthisis or tuoerculosis, (7) strumous disease of the mesenteric glands, (8) permanent enlargement of spleen or liver, (9) peritonitis, with or without perforation of the gut, (10) the existence of extensive sloughing. SECRETORY SYSTEM. Stokvxs.—On Urea as the cause of Urtemia. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. n8, p. 26. Nederl. Tijdschr., Sept., i860. Stokvis found that the introduction of urea into the stomach of rabbits and its injection into the veins of dogs produced no bad effects which could be ascribed to the urea. Similar experiments with carbonate of ammonia tended to show the correctness of French's view as to the