CIUCULA.TOEY SYSTEM. 189 globules. In cases of embolism the walls of the vessels are for the most part unaltered, as far as the unaided eye can perceive; but Lebert has, after nineteen days' duration, found with the microscope a considerable increase of the connective-tissue-corpuscles, and a division and multiplication of the nuclei. Grisolle also found thickening of the vascular coats and adhesion of the same with the embolon in a case where a calcareous fragment driven into the middle cerebral artery had excited there inflam- mation and fibrinous depositions. The embolon is very variously shaped, mostly fusiform or rounded, colourless or whitish, sometimes gray or brownish, always dry, hard, and resisting. It is mostly fibrinous, or is separable into two parts—one peripheral, which is always fibrinous and sometimes very long; and a central, directed towards the heart, which is calcareous, atheromatous, or fibrinous also, and contains sometimes heterogeneous elements, as warty growths or bits of the valves. Some- times the embolon is absent, having probably become absorbed. In cases of old standing the vessel itself sometimes disappears. The softening which occurs in the brain as the result of the deprivation of the part of blood may be red, yellow, or white, according to the stage in which it is examined. Bed softening commences after twenty-four or forty-eight hours, dating from the apoplectiform attack, and lasts eight to fourteen days. It is characterised by moderately diminished consistence, a red, brownish, or rosy colour, sometimes united with a slight tumefaction of the tissue, and always with increased tension and. injection of the collateral vessels. The red colour is not produced solely through the increased vascular injection, but also by the transudation of colouring matter into the parenchyma (ecchymoses), and by capillary, punctiform efi'usions from the collateral vessels. Under the microscope the nerve- fibres and -cells appear partly normal, partly already broken and granular; the capillary walls for the most part unchanged—however, sometimes filled with coagulated blood. Yellow softening does not appear till after the lapse of fourteen days. The necrotic cerebral mass is by this time more pappy; the nerve-fibres and-cells are broken up, dislocated, granulous, scarcely distinguishable, in a state of regressive fatty metamorphosis. The capillary walls are covered with gray fatty granulations; contain diminished blood-corpuscles, especially granular heematine from the shrunken red globules, and enlarged granuUr white corpuscles. The yellow colour depends on the latter, on coloured blood-globules deprived of their hoematine, and also sometimes on the formation of fat. White softening does not appear until several months have elapsed. The cere- bral mass is then completely white, diffluent like cream, with some whity flocculi suspended in it. Nerve-fibres and -cells have vanished, capillaries and blood-corpuscles are metamorphosed, and under the microscope numerous granulations are seen, oil-drops, and granular cells, which give the fluid the greatest resemblance with the colostrum. This third phase only occurs in large patches of softening, as smaller ones are always resorbed. Sometimes, even in larger patches, the softened mass is absorbed, which constitutes then a fourth phase, which is characterised by superficial depressions, the formation of cysts and cicatrices, and forms the termination in recovery. One peculiarity of cerebral softenings is that the whole region belonging