GENERAL SYSTEM. 43 bronchitis, often terminating fatally, and presenting after death extensive lobular carnificatiou. Among 418 cases of typhus, Ulrich had six of ery- sipelas of the face, coming on about the third week ; all but one ended fatally. Otitis in one year was frequent among Lebert's cases, but all recovered. Parotitis, in Ulrich's experience, was a much less ominous occurrence than it has often been regarded. In many epidemics all, or nearly all, those thus affected have ctied ; but of six "cases which Ulrich had, and which proceeded to suppuration, only one ended fatally, and this was "from the exhaustion induced by other purulent depots in different parts of the body. Sander also had four recoveries out of six cases. Gigon (' L'Union,' ji^, 117, 1861) records a case of considerable parotid swelling, with ex- tensive sloughing and death, in a boy aged twelve months. Lebert reports a case of noma (gangrene of the mouth) occurring in a boy aged 10, and ending favorably. Smoler observed in some instances that bed-sores formed upon an eruption of ecthymatous pustules, or the resulting ulcers. Laryngeal ulceration and necrosis are often latent until oedema of the glottis suddenly appears and brings life into extreme peril. Sestier found in eighteen typhus convalescents thus attacked necrosis of the larynx in twelve, and Emmet in thirty similar cases found laryngeal ulceration iu twenty-three. Charcot and Dechambre ('Gaz. des Ilopit.,' 1859, 100) describe the typhous ulcer as seated on the posterior wall of the larynx, where the mucous membrane covers the arytenoid muscles. At first there fire one or more diphtheritic patches, which are succeeded by ulcera- tions of various depth. The arytenoid and even the cricoid cartilages become exposed and detached, and abscesses are often formed. The affec- tion may appear in the second or third week, but usually coincides with the last stage of the disease, or even with convalescence. Unless abscesses form, the symptoms may be very slight. The disease not uncommonly becomes chronic, and passes into laryngeal phthisis.- Baudot ('L'Uuion,' 8,3, 1859) records a case where a female, three months after an attack of typhus, was suddenly attacked with laryngeal symptoms, which continued six or seven months longer, when she brought up, after a severe paroxysm of suffocation, two cartilaginous sequestra. In three or four months she recovered completely, with the exception of some alteration of voice, which was rather rough, gutteral, and deep. Several cases of embolia, throm- bosis, and gangrene of the limbs, during and after typhus, are recorded. In one the posterior tibial artery was affected ; in the others, different veins. Eelapses (complete) were observed by Sander (' Deutsche Klinik,' 7, i86i) only twice among 301 cases of typhus. Buhl (' Bayer. Aerztl. Intel. Bl,,' 5, 1861) found, among 500 autopsies of typhus, traces of relapse in 15, or in 3 per cent. During the prevalence of an epidemic the relapses were 5 per cent.; at other times, 2 per cent. In the hospital at Leipzig 40 relapses occurred among 548 typhus patients, i. e. 6-5 per cent. ; or, if the deaths are omitted, the ratio is 8 per cent. In some years the proportion of relapses (omitting deaths) fell to 4-4 per cent., and in others rose to 14-3 per cent. Human states of these cases that relapses occurred more frequently after typhus than after any other dis- ease. He observed their commencement at all periods, from three to seven weeks after the beginning of the original disease. More than one third, however, occurred at the beginning of the fifth week. Buhl's ex-