TtEPOllT OK I'llACTICAL MEDICINK, ]76 Donaldson, J.—Edin. Med. J., Dec, 186.3. States tlint he obtn'med, during the cholerii epidemic of 1861 a wonder- ful amount of success from the employment of cliloric ether with Spt. Ammon. Aromat. ana 5SS every twenty minutes. Hydrocyanic acid was added when the vomiting was more than usually severe, and solution of muriate of morphia when the alvine dejections were unusually great, or when there was unusual restlessness and inability to sleep after the collapsed stage was fairly passed. Tr. catechu was also used in some cases as an astringent. Of eighteen cases of true malignant cholera treated in the garrison hospital, six only died, and the remainder speedily recovered. Of several apparently hopeless cases in the 38th Regiment, not one died. A little brandy and water was given occasionally to relieve thirst, and sulphuric acid drink if desired. Trousseau.—Vertiyo Dijspeptica. Gaz. des Hop., 39, 1862. Schmidt's Jnhrb., vol. 117, p. 34. This affection is unusual before the age of fifty, and is preceded by dis- ordered digestion. It is not felt in a posture of repose, but comes on immediately as soon as the patient rises, or looks upwards, or turns round quickly, or looks at trellis work or narrow-striped carpets. It is not produced by straining or such movements as would cause congestion of the head. The giddiness is attended with nausea, but not with peripheral disorders of motion and sensation. In giddiness from cerebral affection there are signs of congestion of the head, sense of weight, lassitude, and formication in the extremities, without nausea and vomiting. Trousseau gives soda and magnesia in infus. quass. MiiLLER; Witt.—Cases of Gastric Fistula. Wurtemb. Corresp. Bl., xxxii, 27, 1862. Hygiea, xxiii. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 171. One patient was 38, the other 27 years old ; both were females. The first died, and nothing morbid was found in the stomach, except the per- foration, which was in the greater curvature. The other patient recovered. In her the gastric juice was of sp. gr. i'04, acid, and contained muriatic and lactic acids. The latter was the more abundant, and was found with every variety of diet. Blanciiet.—Jour, de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., Sept., 1863. Asserts that he has succeeded on several occasions in passing a sound down the oesophagus, through the pyloric orifice of the stomach, and some way into the small intestine. By this proceeding he has procured the speedy evacuation of foreign bodies, and has twice successfully managed an ob- stinate ileus with persistent vomiting. While the sound is in the intestinal canal Blanchet moves it quickly up and down, which probably excites energetic peristalsis, Renz.—Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., p. 374, 1862. Records the case of a nervous female, who, after eating strawberries or bilberries, had superficial inflammation of the mucous membrane of the tongue. Pears produced in her smart urticaria of both legs.