299 SPEUMATOURHCEA. and the polypus liigli up, it should be dragged down by means of forceps or by a wire uoose, and then ligatured. The removal by the finger is the readiest and best practice, and it is the one which I have almost always followed. After the removal of the growth a cure may con- fidently be predicted; some care being always taken by the surgeon to satisfy himself that a second growth does not exist." T. B. Curling, observations on the diseases of the rectum (3rd ed.). Gr. Passavant, dangerous injuries by clysters ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. ^03; 1863, p. 3). M. Velpeau, idceration at the margin of the anus ('Graz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 510). Syphilitic disease ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 26; ' Lancet,' 1861, p. 420). H. Smith, prolapsus treated by the hemorrhoidal clamp ('Lancet,' 1863, i, 578), and cases (ib., 1862, ii, 371, 592). J. B. Brown, operation for relaxed sphincter ani (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1862, i, 72). M. Demarquay, removal of a cancer (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 473). GENITO-TTEIITAUT ORGAJTS. Spermatorrlicea and Onanism.—Dr. T. Clemens states (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 149, &c.) that hypertesthesia of the urethral mucous membrane is a frequent cause of spermatorrhoea, even the passage of the nrine being sufficient to cause an emission. Patients who suffer from this state of the urethra to a less degree are extremely subject to noc- turnal emissions. The author has very often seen such a condition in married men. He has foimd washing with cold water, the sitz-bath, &c., of very little use. The hypera;sthesia may, however, be soon over- come by powerful electrical currents* passed from the perinfBum towards the glaus, across the pelvis, through the rectum and penis; bougies, coated with a saturated solution of sulphate of iron in gly- cerine, may afterwards be used. The diet should be somewhat stimu- lating ; red wine and coitus may be directed with advantage. As reasons for the use of electricity in sucli cases, he states that whilst misuse and excessive irritation of the genitals exhaust the spinal cord, the latter organ is strengthened and stimulated by such means as render the former stronger and better innervated; he has noticed such a reflex action of electricity in cases of onanism. The hyperesthesia is j^er se sufllcieut to cause impotence, the semen being emitted on the slightest irritation, so that coitus becomes impossible.f The autlior has generally been able to trace the hyperesthesia to affections of the spinal cord and onanism ; he has also often found it acccompanied by exactly the oppo- site state of the skin of the penis—anaesthesia. Instead of Lallemand's porte-caustique, he uses electrical shocks passed through an instrument, of which one pole is in the bladder, the other at the anus. J. S. A. Diceuta states (ib., 1862, p. 441) that in 500 cases of sperma- torrhoea he met with about 100 cases of some derangement of the digestive organs, generally constipation or dyspepsia, and about fiftv * The iiutlior generally uses the constant current or friction-electricity, and not Taraflization; tlic latter is often injurious, accoriling to him. t The aiithor gives a clcscrijition of an electrical girdle (ib., 1863, pp. 34, 57), for the prevention of noctumal pollutions.