CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. The enlnrgement which Bndcl refers to is that which has been latterly described as due to amyloid degeneration. The most striking examples of it are seen in the victims of scrofulous or syphilitic caries. Tliree cases are related in which ll^xx of dilute nitric acid were taken ter die for a period varying from fifteen to four months, without inducing ex- cessive acidity of the urine, or any inconvenience attributable to undue acidity of the stomach. Sarsaparilla, iron, or bark, were conjoined with the acid. The result of his experience leads Budd to conclude that when the liver and spleen have become diseased in the manner specified, in sequel to protracted syphilitic disease of the bones, nitric acid, long taken, has a remarkable influence in gradually eflfecting the removal of the morbid deposit to which these organs owe their increased size, restoring the organs to a more healthy condition, and improving the general health. The cases farther afford a strong presumption that nitric acid, taken earlier, would prevent the disease of the abdominal glands, which, when established, it tends to remedy. It is, however, essential that the disease of the bone, on which the enlargement of the liver and spleen is conse- quent, should be arrested; if this cannot be effected, the malady, though even then its course may be retarded, usually makes progress, and life is cut short by ren.nl disease, which very often accompanies that of the liver and spleen. Budd suggests that a long course of nitric acid may have influence in remedying and preventing glandular enlargements, chronic ulcers, and other forms of scrofulous disease. He is persuaded that in tuberculous disease of the lung nitro-muriatic acid, long taken, tends to prevent the further deposit of tubercle. CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. ITebra.—On ike Internal and External Application of Iodine Preparations in Diseases of the S/cin. AUg. Wien. Med. Ztg., vii, 3, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 26. Hebra insists that the internal administration of iodine is undesirable, because it only modifies cutaneous disease when it is given so as to pro- duce disorder of nutrition and ansemia of the skin, and that, as the general condition improves, the cutaneous disease^ reappears. Only in lupus does he consider iodine as of real utility, whether the affection be of syphiHtic or scrofulous character. The external use of iodine is, on the other hand, very beneficial. Hebra employes the tincture or a solution in glycerine', in chloasma and lentigo, and in lupus. In acne and sycosis he uses XIno-t! Sulph. lodidi. Ungt. Hydr. lod. and Hydr. Biniod. are beneficial "in psoriasis, lichen, and ecz. squamos. Piringer confides much in the local application of Tr. lodinii to prevent pitting of the face in smallpox. This he docs by arresting the development of the pustules and the swelling of the skin. If the patient is seen on the first day of the erup- tion, the whole face, including the eyelids, must be brushed over with Tr. lodinii ten times, making half-hour pauses between. The eruption is stopped, and no swelling of the face occurs. If treatment is commenced on the second day, twelve applications must be made, the first ei"-ht at half-hour intervals. Some swelling only occurs. If the patient ?s not seen till the third day of the eruption, fourteen to sixteen applications