VAlMliTIES OF GLAUCOMA. 2GI the first hall" of life. As the rule, one eye is attacked soon after the otlier. The pressure-symptoms are generally not very marked. Glaucoma xcith intermittent injlammaiion.—The inflammatory attacks are very transient, and only characterised by extremely slight cloudiness of the ocular media; in their intervals we find diminished acuteness of vision, contraction of the field of vision, more or less distinct symptoms of increased pressure, and, as the rule, well-marked excavation of the optic disc. ^ Chronic inflammatory glaucoma—li is sometimes preceued by a pre- monitory stage, sometimes by glaucoma simplex. After an acute attack the inflammation generally becomes chronic ; such cases are character- ised by the peculiar changes of the iris, and must be considered as belonging to the next subdivision. Acute inflammatory glaucoma (formerly called arthritic ophthalmia).— The pressure-symptoms are most clearly marked. A premonitory stage is only exceptionally absent. The complete loss of quantitative per- ception (glaucoma fulminans) in a few hours may be noticed as demand- ing immediate treatment. A perfect intermission does not occur after an acute attack; there is, as the rule, a considerable remission, with partial restoration of vision. The further course varies ; sometimes the sight is lost from chronic inflammation, sometimes its gradual diminution is attended only with symptoms of increased pressure, and not unfrequently it is brought about by the repetition of acute attacks. Glaucoma consecutiinm.—A name for the cases in which it results from other processes, as after corneal cicatrices, staphyloma, iritis, or sclerotico-choroiditis (see translation of A. von Grate's ' Memoii's,' New Syd. Soc, 1856, pp. ,370-80). Glaucoma absolutwm, consmnmatum.—AVhen quantitative perception of light has been lost for some time, and treatment is of no use in respect to vision. Prof. Grafe has had occasion to repeat iridectomy, owing to fresh symptoms of pressure, only ten or eleven times; three or four of these cases were in the latest periods (of glaucomatous degeneration), where the effect of the operation is always uncertain ; four times owing to the first operation having been imperfectly performed, so that only three cases remain in which the effect of a single iridectomy was insufficient. The repetition of the iridectomy was successful in two out of the three. The repetition had the desired eftect in all the cases in which the first operation had been badly performed, except in a single patient where, at a later period, symptoms of increased pressure again appeared. These numbers are of some value, for the total number of operations on account of glaucomatous conditions amounted to more than 400. Prof. Griife concludes his paper Avith a number of remarks on the prognosis and treatment, in which he calls attention specially to two forms of glaucoma, one secondary to sclerectasia posterior, the other accompanied by contraction of the visual field towards the outer side, and points out that other means of treatment, such as leeches or laxatives, which were previously inefll"ective, have a beneficial action after iridectomy.