3 CEIXSj ELEMENTAUY OKGANlSJISj AND COKPUSCLES. surroimded, not only by one, but by two membranes ; tlmt within the outer covering there exists an interior vesicle, wbicb encloses the coloured contents, and in tbe ovipara the nucleus: so that the blood- corpuscle is anatomically analogous to a vegetable cell, and the inner vesicle corresponds to the primordial utricle. The appearances on which this view is founded are, briefly stated, the following:—A solution of magenta added to a drop of blood brings out at some point of its surface a spot or particle, evidently organically connected with that surface, and assuming from the magenta a deeper colour than the general contents of the corpuscle. This spot presents various aspects, and in some cases forms a delicate line, surrounding the greater part of the circumference of the disc. On adding tannin, in proportions varying for different bloods, there took place suddenly, after a gradual swelling of the corpuscle, a projection, in one or more spots, from its surface. This projection was of granular appearance, resembling very closely, but not exactly, the general cell-contents, and was frequently siuTOunded externally by a distinct hood. In some cases the outline of the corpuscle could be distinctly traced through the projecting mass. After a few days the cells thus altered burst, and became disintegrated. They appeared to have been rendered solid by the tannin. Dr. Eoberts suggests, that the inner membrane of the corpuscles in these cases may have been caused to burst, allowing a partial exudation of its contents beneath the outer capsule, and then immediately reuniting itself. The hooded appearance might be due to the imbibition of fluid between this microscopic drop and the outer envelope. The exact identity of the appearances in the blood-discs of the ovipara and of the mammalia, discountenances Wharton Jones's view that the latter answer to the nuclei of the former, and lends support to the view that these cor- puscles are homologous as wholes. V. Recklinghausen reports some new observations on the contractility of cells. He irritated the cornea of the frog with sulphate of copper, and placed under the microscope some of the aqueous humour which had become opaque in consequence of the irritation. He foimd it to contain corpuscles, in appearance identical with pus-corpuscles ; these continually changed their form, putting out and di-awing back processes of various lengths and thicknesses, sometimes branching, sometimes reuniting, so as to form a network. The changes, in short, resembled very closely those of the pseudopodia of the Eadiolaria. Changes of density in the liquid, whether by evaporation or by addition of various solutions,_ soon brought them to a standstill. Similar motions were observed in the pus-corpuscles taken from man and mammalia, and, in the former, similar internal molecular motions to those which BrLicke has described in the saliva. Passing from effusions to the connective tissue itself, v. Recklinghausen found that, by making a fine section of the cornea of the frog, and placing it with some of the aqueous humour, uncovered, but in a cell adapted to prevent evaporation, beneath the microscope, corpuscles could be seen in it, which also changed their form similarly to, but somewhat more restrictedly than, the pus-corpuscles. Further, through their changes of form these