XEKVOrS SYSTR^^r. 85 the power of motion aiul sensation in his lower limbs, and to some extent also in the npper. He was completely restored after about two months' treatment. Remak.—On Tabes Borsalis. Deutsche Klinik, 49, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 173. Remak distinguishes different forms of the disease, according to its seat. Tabes cervicalis is characterised by eccentric pains, small immov- able pupils, and the long duration of the motor disorders. The primary change is a derangement of the nutrition of the nerve-cells; myelitis occurs secondarily. Tabes lumbalis is sometimes an independent affec- tion, sometimes united with a unilateral lumbo-sacral neuritis. Rheu- matic and arthritic influences give rise to deranged circulation in the cord, ■which is the fundamental evil. In tabes dorsalis the power of walking and the functions of the urinary and genital organs and of the rectum are more evidently impaired, and the excentric pains are very severe. Tabes basalis usually commences with deranged action of the muscles of the eye, and may be therefore confounded with cerebral tumour. Disorders of vision and anaesthesia and paresis of the hands ensue at a later date. Tabes cerebelli is very rare, and is characterised by extreme unsteadiness of gait as almost its only symptom, and some- times by amblyopia. Pain on pressure over the spinous processes occurs only in tabes lumbo-dorsalis, and is a favorable prognostic sign, as indicating a still existing myelitis. All forms of tabes may originate in syphilis. The constant galvanic current is the most effectual remedy, and is most available when myelitis is actually present. When there has been primary degeneration of the nerve-cells, when the disorder is com- plicated with the results of spinal meningitis and growths of connective tissue, galvanism is contra-indicated. It is more successful in tabes dorsalis and lumbalis than in the other forms. The induced current is injurious. Remak has not found nitrate of silver to be of much efficacy. IsNARD.—On Ataxic Locomotrice Progressive. L'Union, 131, 134, [35, 137, 141, 142, 1862. Isnard regards the disorder as a neurosis—(i) because it alternates in the same family with other nerve disorders; (2) because all its symptoms are functional derangements of the nervous system ; and (3) because all the remedies which have hitherto been found most useful are those which are advantageous in other neuroses. The result of autopsies are not a valid counter-argument, for on the one hand there are cases in which no morbid change has been found, and on the other the presence of anato- mical alteration does not exclude the idea of a neurosis. The want of co- ordmation in the movements is not the result of a local disease in the cord affecting the seat of co-ordination (probably the posterior columns and the gray substance), but of disturbances of the harmonic action of individual parts of the cord together. This consists, according to Isnard, in a dissimilar derangement of the muscular sensibility. So'long as the muscular sensibility is only uniformly too weak or wholly absent, co- ordination of the movements is not lost, though in the last case the aid of vision may be necessary. If, however, the sensibility is too delicate in