niil'OllT ON .SUlKiEKV. the tear would bo raised upwards by tlie dislocated bone itseU", owing to this backward inoliou of tlic arm over the fulcruin, llie slit would gape, and as large a space as possible would be left between its outer lip and the margin of the glenoid cavity or the inner lip. On tliis i)ro- ceediiig being put into force, tlie bead immediately left its previous position, and on slight rotation of tlie arm inwards, slipped into the articular cavity. Thus Avhat had not been possible by the use of gi-eat force, and when the patient was perfectly narcotised, now succeeded with the greatest ease, and when t he patient Avas perfectly conscious. It has often been noticed before that it has been quite child's ])biy, on the use of a proper method, to reduce dislocations which had previous!}' resisted the use of great force. It is very extraordinary, and, so far as I know, has not been pi-eviously observed, that after several recur- rences of luxation of the humerus the slit in the capsule should hold the dislocated bone so tightly that any traction, according to the ordinary methods, only appeared to tix it more firmly. As already mentioned, there must have been something peculiar, for in the course of last year this patient twice dislocated the humerus, once in swimming, and once in an epileptic attack, and botb times reduction was very easy, once by the lever-movement just described, and tbe other time by extension and countei'-extensiou." iSince in this case one lip of tbe tear in the capsule was raised from the other with the view of dilating the aperture as much as possible, the author endeavoured to test the same principle in other luxations. Unfortunately the production of shoulder and elbow dislocations on the subject is ordinarily attended with such extensive tears in the capsule, as to render reduction extremely easy. In only a few cases was the luxation firm enough for the purpose. In respect to dislocations of the shoulder, experience has already anticipated theory; in the method of Motbe-Kust, so often employed, the head of the bone raises the lip of the rupture from the glenoid cavity, owing to the elevation of the arm, when the rupture has taken place at the lower part of the capsule. Dislocation under the coracoid process was always readily reduced on the subject, by raising the arm as directly upwards as possible; when the capsule was ruptured in front, reduction was facibtated by carrying the arm backwards, and at the same time raising it. On the subject it mattered little whether slight traction in such a position, with subse- quent depression of the arm, or the lever movement already described, followed by rotation, was employed. The author was able, in two cases, to confirm Eoser's statement that byi^er-extension, by which dis- location of the elbow backwards is most easily produced, was also the position in which reduction was most readily efl'ected. The value of a method of reduction may be best tested in cases of dislocation of the femur. The dislocation is most easily produced on tbe subject by fixiug the pelvis firmly, flexing the thigh at the hip and knee, and with a sudden cftbrt adducting, and at the same time rotating the extremity inwards. Thus the neck of the femur presses on the margin of the acetabulum as a fidcruin, whilst the bead is raised and violently forced out, so as to rupture the postero-inferior part of tbe capsule. The head always pa8^^ed out below the tendon of tlie obturator internus.