GENERAL SYSTEJI. 67 does not depend on the degree of disturbance of the liver. The indented cicntricinl patclies on the surface of the liver are produced by the shrink- ing of the connective tissue, and are found even where there is extreme atrophy. The gummatous tumours of the lungs are characterised by a stiff, thick, fibrous envelope, which causes puckering of the surface, from whence fibrous bands run into the interior of the lung. Next to this envelope comes a gray, hard substance, forming one or more nuclei, which gradually softens, and becomes at last cheesy or almost fluid. The firm as well as the liquid mass consists of fibrous tissue, cells, and fat- globules. The tumours of the liver and areolar tissue have the same con- tents. The pulmonary formations always appear late, and belong to the tertiary period of syphilis. If symptoms show themselves in the lungs during the first period of constitutional syphilis, they are the result either of the initial syphilitic fever or of actual tuberculosis. Chronic laryn- geal ulcers are occasionally present in pulmonic syphilis. Saicocele is usually one-sided, and is characterised by an extraordinary thickening of the tunica albuginea, and growth of cellular tissue in the interior, which atrophies the tubuli seminiferi. Gummatous tumours sometimes form in this fibrous mass, but seldom make their way outwards. FoRSTER. — Contributions to the Pathological Anatomy of Congenital Si/philis. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., iv, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 43. Among 36 cases death occurred in all but one before the close of the first year, mostly during the first few weeks or months of life. Morbid changes were found in all parts, especially in the lungs and liver. In the lungs there were patches of lobular hepatization, which are distin- guished from non-syphilitic by their unusual hardness; their smooth, bacon-like, grayish-red, generally dry cut-surface ; by the usually cheesy degeneration of their centre, and the involvement of the interstitial con- nective tissue in the new formation ; and by the abundant fusiform cells and oval nuclei. Gummatous tumours are rare ; sometimes the air-cells are filled up with regularly arranged squamous epithelium. The atelek- tasis of syphilitic children has nothing characteristic ; on the other hand, croupous coryza is quite pecuHar to them. Pharyngeal ulcers are never met with, and only secondary laryngeal. In the liver fibrous inflamma- tions of the capsule were most frequent; a gummatous tumour only occurred once. Diseased conditions in the lymphatic glands, the organs of circulation, the urinary and generative apparatus, and the bones, were rare. The skin was very often diseased, and there were limited abscesses in the subcutaneous tissue. Fissures and ulcers of the lips were ob- served, and intestinal catarrh was common. In one case Peyer's glands were the seat of a peculiar fibroid degeneration, their tissue thickened and indurated and ulcerated. Pelltzani, p.—On Communication of SylMlis hy means of Inoculation of Blood. Gaz. Hebd., ix, 22, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 42. Pellizani relates that three physicians, previously quite sound, were inoculated, Feb. 6th, i86a, with the blood drawn from the arm of a