ACUTK PEllIOSnTIS 01' TUE LOWER JAW. 239 hip.joiiit C EJiub. Med. Journ.,' viii, 385). Sawostifczki; osteoplastic amputatiou of the thigh ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr., in, 31V. SPECIAL SURGERY. HEAD. M. Nilaton, clinical lechire on a case of cancer of tie upper jaw, following suppuration in the antrum ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 2). He pointed out that the tumour had caused absorption of the bone, and that an ordinary needle could be introduced without meeting with any resistance, an almost decisive sign of cancer. Dr. S. Self Helen has given the following description of acute rheu- matic ])eriostitis of the lower jaw ('Arch. f. Path. Anat.,' xviii, 347). It attacks perfectly healthy and robust individuals, with good teeth, after severe colds. It commences with violent toothache along one side of the jaw, considerable and often very intense fever, swelling of the cheek and gums, difiiculty in chewing and swallowing, increased secre- tion of the mucous membrane of the mouth and salivary glands, con- gestion of the head, even delirium. The symptoms usually increase in severity until suppuration takes place, unless active local blood- letting is early employed. Scarification of the gums down to the bone is the most simple and effectual manner of depletion; its effect is often magical. "Warm poultices and saline purgatives should also be employed. The action of preparations of iodine or mercury is too slow and uncer- tain. Suppuration sometimes occurs in even two or three days, one or more teeth fall out, and the pus is discharged by the alveoli; the matter also makes its way into the mouth by an aperture forming at the level of the roots of the teeth, and still more rarely through the cheek and external skin. Before the latter occurs, fluctuating swellings, with great but circumscribed redness of the skin, appear; should these not be opened early, a necrosis, of the whole thickness of the bone, is sure to result. The suppuration, which was originally limited to a few spots covered by the gum and to the alveoli, extends along the lower border, and covers the whole circumference of the jaw. If the abscess is early opened, the exfoliation of the bone is limited to one or other cortical layer, and usually to the outer one. PistulaB passing towards the mouth heal with difficulty, for the morbid process has then a great tendency to recur, owing to the constant movement of the jaw, and the irritation of the diseased tissues by the secretions and ingesta. Occasionally fresli suppurations, accompanied by febrile symptoms, recur, the submaxillary lymphatic glands become swollen and indurated, the soft parts of the cheek acquire slowly a hardness like that of a white swelling, constantly present a higher temperature, and are extremely sensitive to the touch. The diseased periosteum produces both pus and osteophytes. The latter vary much, sometimes appearing as compact bridges of bone, which even undergo sclerosis, or as porous deposits like pumice-stone. AVherever a sequestrum is not thrown off soon after the first attack of acute inflam- mation, it may be admitted that an extensive necrosis is in progress, when osteophytes can be felt with the probe. In such cases sponta-