413 JfANGANESE. niauna iu preparing pills of proto-iodide of iron. A mass so made always reiiiaius of a pasty consistence, and the iodide is found to retain its green colour, and not to undergo any cliemical change. M. Leroy (' Journ. de Phar. et de Chim.,' p. 275) has investigated the cause of the change in the hydrated sesquioxide of iron. This substance, when recently prepared, is light and flocculent, but, as is well known, after a time it becomes heavy, and it has then lost the power of combining with arsenious acid, so that it is useless as an antidote for that poison. This change was shown by Lefort to depend on an altera- tion in its chemical composition. Its formula becomes ^FegOg, 3HO, instead of l^.fi3> HO. This alteration has been regarded by some as merely the effect of time, and by others it has been attributed to exposure to the air and to the action of light. According to Leroy, it is simply the effect of cold. He has a specimen which has been kept ten years without undergoing any change. It has been freely exposed to the sunshine; in the summer it has been allowed to have the tem- perature of the air, but in the winter it has been maintained uniformly above the temperature of 12° C. It still retains the power of combining with arsenious acid. About 15° C. is the best temperature to ensure the permanence of this preparation; below 12° C. it tends to undergo change. M. Smedt (' Joiu'u. de Phar. et de Chim.,' p. 485) prepares a substance "which he believes to be a definite iodide of quinine and iron in the fol- lowing manner. He adds tincture of iodine to a concentrated solution of the sulphuret of barium. The precipitate of sulphur is removed by filtration, and a concentrated and slightly acid solution of sulphate of quinine in alcohol is mixed with the liquid. Sulphate of baryta now goes down, and iodide of quinine remains dissolved in the spirit, forming a yellow liquid, A concentrated solution of iodide of iron is now pre- pared, the quantity of iodine being in the proportion of one part to two and a half of the sulphate of quiniue originally used. This is added to the solution of iodide of quinine, and the mixed fluids are heated in a water bath. Finally, the liquid is filtered and crystallized. The salt forms long needles of a beautiful yellow colour. It is completely soluble in boiling water, and is not deposited as the liquid cools. It is also soluble in the cold in alcohol and ether. It has not yet been analysed. It has no smell, but possesses a bitter and ferruginous taste. M. Josi (' Comptes Eendus de Ferrare,' ' Presse Med. Beige,' No. 7, 1863, p. .38) speaks highly of the insoluble tannate of manganese, prepared by the decomposition of the sulphate of the protoxide of manganese by the alkaline tannate of potass, as an antiperiodic and febrifuge. It is not bitter, and therefore it is especially suited to delicate persons and children who cannot bear quinine. Its dose is two grammes (gr. xxxj) fop an adult.