425 OUGANIC SUBSTANCES. After death tlie stomach and the upper part of the small intestine were found injected. The remarkable lact that the glycose had disappeared Jrom the liver was also observed. (^5) The activity of the nervous sys- tem was decreased. There was collapse. The functions of the sensitive nerves were destroyed, while those of the motor nerves, and the con- tractility of the muscles, were impaired, but not completely annulled. Tliese points were determined by the experiments on frogs. The animals were poisoned with emetine, and then decapitated. It was then found that pinching the skin produced no reflex contractions, while galvanic irritation of the lumbar nerves, and of the muscles themselves, gave rise to distinct movements, though these were far less considerable than those excited in a healthy frog after decapitation. From these experiments, Pecholier concludes that ipecacuanha has a contra-stimulant action upon frogs and rabbits. It may be doubted whether it produces exactly similar efiects in the human subject, and lie admits that this is a matter of inference rather than of certainty. If the drug be employed in small doses, the reaction which follows the vomiting may produce secondary phenomena of excitement. But if doses of half a drachm to a drachm be given in four ounces of liquid, in the form of infusion, the elFects are almost always depressing. This remedy is, therefore, recommended in the treatment of pneumonia. It has long been used in this disease at Montpellier; it is found to reduce the intensity of the lung disease, either by its depressing action, or by the copious diaphoresis which it produces, and which brings about a crisis in the malady. Toleration of the remedy, when given in these large doses, does not always occur. Sometimes each teaspoonful causes nausea, with incessant vomiting and great prostration; and these effects may even render it necessary to stop its administration. Pecholier infers, from the pale and bloodless condition of the lungs in the rabbits experimented on by him, that ipecacuanha exerts a specific action on the lungs; but, as is well remarked in the ' Med.-Chir. Eeview,' it must not be assumed that the same thing occurs in the human subject, in whom free vomiting takes place, which may render the condition of ihe pulmonary organs altogether different. Indeed, Magendie and Pelletier found an inflammatory state of the lungs in dogs to whom they gave this drug. The rabbits experimented on by Pecholier re- covered from the depressing action of the ipecacuanha with extraordi- nary rapidity, when they did not die. Animals in a state of complete collapse, and with the heart's pulsations reduced to one haJf, returned to their normal condition in from half an hour to an hour. When death took place, it occurred in from eight to twenty-five minutes after the poison was given. JRosacece. Braycra anthelmintica.—M. Bedall ('Presse Med. Beige,' 1863, No. 44, Oct. 18th) has succeeded in isolating the active principle of this plant, to which he gives the name of koussine. It is a white or yellowish crystalline powder, without odour, but possessed of a bitter, pungent laste. It appears to have acid properties. The formula assigned to