77 NERVOUS SYSTEM. vital property of sensibility has been stimulated into a state of functional activity, but by supposing—(i) that the "impression" which issues in sensation involves an equivalent expenditure of natural electricity in the sentient nerve]; (2) that this expenditure gives rise to the development in and near tlie nerve of instantaneous electrical currents of high tension, analogous to the discharges of tiie torpedo ; and (3) that the instantaneous currents or discharges which are developed in the neighbourhood of that part of the nerve which lies within the sensorium will give rise to sensa- tion if any sensorial ganglionic cells happen to come within their range of action. Radclifife then proceeds to state, in the way of propositions, certain facts and views relating to convulsion, tremor, spasm, paralysis of certain kinds, pain, and sensations analogous to pain. He seeks to ascertain whether these disorders are to be treated as the result of exalted vital action or the reverse. (75) The epileptic and epilepti- form paroxysm is not unfrequently preceded by signs of defective re- spiration. (76) It is also usually accompanied by a state of unmis- takable suffocation. (77) The convulsion of hysteria or chorea is associ- ated with a state of very defective respiration. (78) The condition of the respiration during convulsion is one which supports the notion that the convulsion is connected with depressed and not with exalted vital action. (79) In the chronic forms of convulsive disorder the inter- paroxysmal condition is usually marked by evident signs of a feeble circula- tion. (80) The epileptic and epileptiform attack is usually, if not invariably, preceded by signs of failure in the circulation, as cadaveric pallor of the countenance, feeble pulse at the wrist. (81) In the fully developed paroxysm the jDulse is sometimes roused to a considerable degree of activity, not because the arteries are then receiving a largely increased supply of rec? blood, but because they are then labouring under a load of black blood, as they are found to labour under during suffocation. In proof of this he appeals toReid'sand Draper's experiments,showing thatduring suffo- cation the pressure is increased in the arteries, and that the blood circu- lating in them is black. (8a) Convulsion is never coincident with a state of active febrile excitement of the circulation. (83) The convulsion which may attend upon the close of Bright's disease is connected with a pale and watery condition of the blood, and with unmistakable signs of great vascular debility, as well as with suspicions of ursemic poisoning. (84) Epileptiform convulsion is a direct consequence of sudden and copious loss of blood. (85, 86) The signs of a weak or jaded brain are scarcely ever absent in persons who are hable to epileptic and other chronic forms of convulsive disorder. (87) All signs of mental life are abolished, or on the point of being abolished, during the paroxysm of convulsion. (88) Convulsion must not be looked on as a symptom of active inflammation of the brain or its membranes. It seems, indeed, to be a constant rule that the hot stage of active inflammation of the brain or of its membranes is attended, not by convulsion, but by acute delirium. In the more passive forms of this inflammation convulsion is a much more frequent pheno- menon than in the acute forms, audit is not so easy to determine the rela- tions of the convulsion to the inflammation ; but, so far as Radcliffe can make out, convulsion is altogether incompatible with the presence of the periods of vascular reaction, even though these periods be but faintly