OPERATIONS IN MIDWIFERY, 877 Scanzoni ('Lehrbucli der GeburtsliUlfe,' p. 730), on the authority of Marians, Ritgen, Stolz, and Kiwisch, states that "artificial labour should be employed when tlie dimension of the conjugate diameter of the brim is abnormally small," and minutely indicates the time for per- forming the operation by the following schedule. Inclica. Lines. Wlipn the sacro-pubic diameter is 2 and 6 or 7, induce liibonr at 30th week. 31st „ 32nd „ a 3^(1 „ .?3rd „ 34th 3Sth „ 36th „ Scanzoni remarks that the necessity for inducing premature delivery niay be argued from the fatality resulting to the childi-en previously born, whether caused by compression of their heads when excessive in volume or by a contraction of the pelvis ; this is conditional, however, as a subsequent child might be smaller, and with ease and safety pass through a diameter of three inches or three and three quarters of an inch. FORCEPS. Dr. J. Cronyn, " Report of Cases of Delivery by the Forceps in the Rotunda Lying-in Hospital, from June ist, 1862, to April ist, 1863" ('Dublin Quart. Jour.,'-Nov., 1863). During the above period the forceps were applied in 26 cases out of 856 patients delivered in the hospital, being a little more than 3 per cent. Results to the mothers and children :—In 17 cases loth were saved and in i both were lost; in 5 cases the mother died and the children were saved; in 3 cases the mothers recovered and the children were lost. Seventeen of the number were primiparse; 5 in labour of the second child, i of the third, 2 of the sixth, and i of the seventh. Of the 26 cases, in 18 the forceps were applied for inertia, in 6 for disproportion, and in 2 for convulsions. Of the 6 mothers who died, 2 were from uterine phlebitis, 2 from metro-peritonitis, i from peritonitis and pneumonia, and I from puerperal scarlatina. Of the children, 6 were stillborn, and in 4 cases the foetal heart was inaudible. In addition to these 26 cases, the forceps were ineffectually applied in 3 other cases, in which craniotomy was afterwards resorted to. Dr. Murphy, ('Dublin Quart. Jour.,' May, 1863,) endeavours to determine the vexed question as to whether the maternal mortality is les- sened by the employment of the forceps. This he does by comparing the results where the forceps had been used to conclude labour and where it had been allowed to proceed in a protracted course and terminate without assistance. Eor this purpose, three reports of the Dublin Lying-in Hospital are analysed, which are especially valuable, since they give the results of opposite modes of practice under the same cir- cumstances. The following are the total results of these reports, by Dr. Collins, Drs. Hardy and McClintock, and Drs. Johnston 'and I) )> » II )> " 2 „ 8 or 9 2 „ 10 or II 3 — 3 » I 3 « 2 01' 3 3 » 4 or s 3 „ S or 6