4.51 decomposed foetus nothing was discovered in tliat organ. It is also a matter of indifference whether the body be held by the legs or by the head when it is removed from the fluid. The importance of finding sub- stances of a specific nature in the stomach of an infant is therefoi'e, so far as experiment is concerned, reduced to the same level as that of their presence in the parenchyma of tlie lungs. They are not to be taken as proof that the child was immersed in the fluid during life. The fact that only solid substances are present in a particular case is not of greater value, for the fluid which entered the stomach at the same time may have passed away by evaporation. Liman observes, in reference to the presence of frothy fluid in the lung-tissue, that it may often be detected when the head has already become black from decomposition. It disappears much more quickly from the air-passages. It is one of the most useful signs of death by drowning; but it may also be present in any slow form of death by suffocation, as, for instance, in cases of poisoning by carbonic-acid gas. It affords no proof that the drowning person rose to the surface after having been immersed, as is supposed by some authors. He attaches great im- portance to the increase in the volume of the lung, which is insisted on especially by Casper. Without any exception, he has found the lungs in drowned persons, not only filling the chest, but protruding when the sternum is removed. The value of this state is increased by the fact that it may be observed after the disappearance of all the fluid from the air- passages, and when the condition of the blood has ceased to give any indica- tion as to the cause of death. The anterior parts of the lungs are especially distended, and their air-cells may even be ruptured. A condition similar, but always, according to Liman, less marked, is found in other forms of sufl'ocative death, as in cases of bronchitis and of oedema of the lungs. Dr. Richardson ('Lancet,' 1863, vol. i, p. 550) records the successful application of a process by which the appearance of a body, decomposed and altered by immersion in water, may be restored, so that it can be identified. Tiie plan which he recommends is as follows:—The naked body is to be placed in a water-tight shell, into which a large tap for the escape of water has been fitted ; and a stream of the fluid should be allowed to pass over it, so as thoroughly to cleanse it. The body is then to be covered with water, and to be fixed beneath the surface of the fluid; and a lid, in which two apertures have been made, is to be fastened on to the shell. Through one of these openings a stream of chlorine gas is to be passed into the water in the shell; tlirough the other a glass tube is to pass, which is to be bent, so as to pass beneath the surface of water in a glass vessel. The escape of chlorine by this tube indicates the saturation of the fluid in the shell with the gas."^ The shell is then to be completely closed, and left undisturbed for twelve hours. The object of this proceeding is to remove the black colour of the skin and to render it white. At the end of this time, a quantity of common salt is to be added to the liquid in the shell, until it has a specific gravity of iioo. Exosmosis will take place from the body into the fluid, and this will reduce the tumefaction ; the.body is to be left in this solution during another twelve hours. If necessary, a further improvement of the appearance of the face may be effected by injecting into the external carotids, first two or three ounces of a solution of chlorine, containing about l^^xx of Tiiict. Fcrri Sesquichlor., and afterwards a saturated solution of common salt in milk, the injection