CEPHALOmiPSY. 388 enemata and small doses of Dover's powder. The much-extolled appli- cation of ice the author was never able to test. The following are the results of the 15 cases. Of the mothers, 8 died and 7 recovered; while of the children, 8 were born alive and 7 dead. One patient was operated upon twice, but died after the second operation ; and, on another patient, Dr. Winckel operated three times successfully; on the last two occasions rupture of the uterus occuri-ed prior to the operation, and the child was both times removed from the abdominal cavity. Eight months after the operation, the patient is said to have died of parotitis. These cases show how much more unfavorable osteomalacia is for the operation than rachitis. Of the 9 patients oj)erated on for osteo, malacian deformity of the pelvis, 6 died, or 66 per cent.; while of the 6 rachitic women only 2 died, or 33 per cent.; and these results would probably have been more favorable if the selection of the period for operation had been dependent on the author. A case is recorded by Professor Breslau with dilatable osteomalacic pelvis (' Mon. f. Geb.,' Nov. 1862); M. Schulze (' Mon. f. Geb.,' July, 1863); M. Heillmann, successful ('Deutsche Klinik,' No. 31, 1863); M. T. J. Freericks, of Bussum, a case with successful result for mother and child; a year later, induction of premature labour, and rupture of the uterus, with successful gastrotomy (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' No. 3, 1863) ; Dr. Taussig, two' successful cases ('Med. Times and Graz.,' ii, 1863, p. 377); Prof Hecker ('Aertz. Intell. Baiersch.,' Aertz. 9, 1862); Dr. Swayne ('Lancet,' i, 1863, p. 606); Dr. Greenhalgh ('Lancet,' i, 1863, p. 204). CEPHAIOTBIPST. Prof. Pajot, in a memoir on " Cephalotripsy repeated without trac- tion; or, a method for delivery in extreme contractions of the pelvis" ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' May, 1863), shows that in many cases tha Cffisarean section may be avoided by the use of the cephalotribe being extended to cases of greater pelvic contraction than those to which it has hitherto been limited. In ordinary contractions—those between two and a quarter, and three and three quarter inches—cephalotripsy succeeds well, and not more tlian two or three applications of the in- strument need be made. But an objection to it is, that it compresses the head in the transverse diameter when the contraction is in the antero-posterior, so that the long diameter of the head is opposed to the short diameter of the pelvis; this defect may, however, be partially corrected by imparting to the head, during traction, a slight rotatory move- ment. But in extreme contractions, as those between one and a quarter and two and a quarter inches, cephalotripsy is as dangerous to the mother as the Cassarean section. Here, the difficulty or impossibility of reach- ing, the base of the cranium with the instrument, the disproportion between the passage and the head, the repeated tractions, necessary and often fruitless, to deliver the child, the lacerations, and death which