RJCl'OJiT ON SUU(;K1IY. " It is woudcrful to observe the efl'ects produced by thia operatiou, even upon the mind, which, like the lung, seems relieved from great oppression, and the patient, before quite Aveak, gets up and walks and talks and acts like a new being. The digestion becomes at once improved, and the strength is rapidly regained. The cough usually, however, augments during the first few days; the pulse retains its quickness; friction sounds occasionally become developed, and several months may elapse before the vesicular murmur becomes pi-operly re-established. Tiie amount of relief obtained bears no relation to the quantity of fluid removed, for I liave found as much ensue from half a pint as from a quart. " Surgeons generally have the idea that the entrance of air at an operation produces dangerous symptoms. I have never found this to be the case, even when, from the mismanagement of the syringe, it has been pumped into the chest; nor am I alone in this experience,—other operators, who have Avitnessed like accidents, corroborate the testi- mony, the only disagreeable effect being the oppression momentarily produced. I do not doubt, however, that air frequentli/ introduced would prove injurious. Some surgeons besitate to operate for fear of wounding the lung. My experience on the subject is, that the punc- ture of any portion of the lung that can be reached with this small instrument, even if it were likely after auscultation, is but of trivial moment, compared to the great benefit to be derived from drawing off the effusion. I have once punctured the lung ; Dr. Wymau confesses to a similar accident; and I have witnessed a third surgeon not only injure it wdth the trocar, but work the suction-pump whilst the canula was in its substance; notwithstanding, all these j)atients got well as usual, although bloody sputa were occasioned in one of them. " I do not pretend that this oj^eration will cure every case in which it is employed, but feel confident that in my hands it has been the means of saving many lives; and I believe that several patients within my knowledge, who have died whilst vmder the care of other physicians, might have recovered had it been had recourse to. It is comparatively harmless, and gives but little pain, and, in my opinion, ought never to be allowed to fall into disuse by the profession. It was in my earlier years of practice that I first noticed and endeavoured to prevent sudden death from pleuritic eflusion, meeting with but indifferent success, owing to the imperfect state of surgery at the time, when my attention was drawn to Dr. Wyman's mode of operating by means of a small trocar and suclion-pump, which I at once adopted as the means I had so long sought after. Modifying his plan, however, I employed a flexible tube with the canula, that it might not be disturbed whilst I was drawing oft' the fluid. I have employed this instrument ever since, and the result is the experience here given. I consider the operation so simple, that I would as soon perform it as draw a tooth or vaccinate a child." E. H. Powell, on thoracentesis in serous effusion (' Lane.,' 1862, ii, .384). A. Biermer, on paracentesis in traumatic pneumothorax (' Schweiz. Zeitschr.,' ii, 1^52). Prof Symanowski, on partial excision of the sternum ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 306). M. Trdlat, fistula after a wound (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 438).