INFANTICIDE. 453 nnncy. After the operation is completed they must communicate the result to the police and to the public medical authorities. 2. The Ctesarean section is, however, only to be performed under the following circumstances:—(i) When no other obstetrical operation can save the life of the foetus. (3) When the woman has reached the thirty- third week of gestation. (3) When the medical man is fully convinced that her death has actually occurred. (4) When she has not been more than twenty minutes dead. 3. The same care is to be observed as in the living subject, and the rules of obstetrical practice are to be carried out; the necessary strappings are to be applied in order to close the wound. Burial of the body is not to take place till putrefaction has commenced. 4. The operation is not to be performed when the woman died of any disease, as, for example, cholera, which is known to kill the fcetus in utero, before the mother. INFANTICIDE. Casper ('Vjschrft. f. Ger. Med.,' xxii. Heft i, p. i) gives a full account of some experiments made by him in order to ascertain the effects of injuries of different kinds on the skulls of infants. He thinks that it is indubitable that the methods which are adopted to conceal the bodies of children born in secret, whether born dead or killed by accident or intention, often produce injuries which may be attributed to ante-mortem violence. The existence of hypersemia of the brain, or an increase in the extravasation beneath the cranial integuments, might easily, when accom- panying such injuries, lead to the most serious errors. The frequency witii which such questions arise is shown by the fact that examinations of the bodies of infants form a fourth part of the medico-legal autopsies per- formed in Berlin. Hohl has denied that the completion of birth ever occurs while the mother is standing, but Casper cites cases which sufficiently refute this statement. He also quotes a case narrated by Heyland, in which the fcetus, expelled whilst the mother was in the erect posture, fell on a brick floor. No injury could be detected at the time, but the infant died of atrophy at the end of three weeks, and the remains of an extravasation of blood were then found between the dura mater and tlie right parietal bone. At this point the inner surface of the bone was rough and hol- lowed out, and the vitreous table was absent. The outer surface of the bone was also roughened. This case appears to show that injuries to the fcetal skull miiy arise from falls on tlie floor during birth, and twenty-five experiments were therefore made to determine this point. The bodies used were those of newly born children, in some cases of children a few days or even some weeks old. In some instances decomposition had commenced, but in none was it complete. They were held by the feet suspended, so that the head was two and a half feet from the ground, and were allowed to fall—in ten of the experiments on an asphalte floor, in fifteen, on the stone pavement of the street. As a rule, no injury which was visible on the surface was produced in this way, but fractures of the bones were found in every instance but one, and this one exception is not very important, for the body was that of an immature fcetus, with very yielding bones. As would be expected from