397 DISEASES OF WOMEN. is retained in the system of a puerperal woman some time before it broke out. A fatal case of puerperal purpura is added. As an exception to the above statement, Dr. M. T. Sadler (' Med. Times,' vol. i, p. 657) states, that of six cases of smallpox occurring within the first week after deli- very, all were mild cases, and recovered; while in three cases, the same disease appeared during the thii-d, fifth, and ninth months of preg- iiuncy respectively, inducing in each case premature labour, and causing death a few hours after delivery. "VVe take the following from a memoir, by Dr. M'Clintock, " On Puerperal Pelvic Cellulitis," ' Diseases of Women,' pp. i—35. Although tedious in its progress, and exhausting to the patient, the disease rarely ends fatally. Of 70 cases, seen by the author, 2 only died, death in each case resulting from dysentery caused by an abscess bursting into the colon. Of 61 cases, 28 were primiparte, though these form only a third of all the patients delivered in the Rotundo. The author agrees with Dr. AV^est that cellulitis is rarely the result of true puer- peral fever, but thinks, with Dr. Bennet, that it often succeeds an attack of metritis or metro-peritonitis. In 34 out of 62 cases, previous to the occurrence of cellulitis, there had been well-marked symptoms of uterine or abdominal inflammation, more or less severe, wthin the first week of childbed. The disease may follow so insidiously after metritis that its existence may not even be suspected until the patient gets up and begins to walk about. Heace the rule insisted upon by the author, that in all cases of convalescence from uterine or peritoneal inflammation, tlie iliac regions should be daili/ examined as carefully as the pulse is noted. Pelvic cellulitis may afl'ect almost any part of the cellular tissue adjacent to the uterus ; and whether occurring primarily or secondarily, it seldom appears after the lying-in month. The sex of the child, the age of the woman, and whether she suckles or not, are circtunstances which do not seem to have any influence upon its production ; but, upon this last point, the author's opinion is directly opposed to that of M. GrisoUe and of Dr. Bennet. The latter states that " one of its most frequent causes is the sudden arrest of lactation, however it may originate." When the disease occurs in a primary form,—which is generally attributable to some imprudence or indis- cretion of the patient,—its invasion is marked by a rigor, to which succeed local pain, pyrexia, and the rapid formation of a tumour. Cases which begin thus, seldom end in suppuration, if appropriate treat- ment be promptly adopted. More usually, however, there seems to be no acute stage, the disease coming on insidiously, or appearing as a sequela of metritis. The diagnosis is here sometimes less evident, and if the tumour be very large, and extend much above the crest of the ilium, a disregard to the history of the case may lead to its being mis- taken for an ovarian tumour. Where suppuration occurs, the chronic stage is generally brief, and seldom well marked. A return of pain and great tenderness in the tumour, with heightened pulse, emacia- tion, hectic symptoms, and diarrhoea, mark this stage, which, if it con-