TREATMENT OF STIFF JOINTS. 327 elbow ; at tlie level of the head of the radius the synovial membrane is almost immediately under the integument; press forcibly on this point with your thumb ; if you do not excite pain, you may be satisfied there is no longer any arthritis. In the shoulder you will sometimes, though rarely, excite some pain by pressing on the posterior or outer side ; but it is in front that you must seek it, by pressing forcibly on the head of the humerus. Such examinations vrill enable you not only to distin- guish traces of arthritis just before it disappears, but also to diagnose inflammation of the joint when just commencing. So long as you find pain at these joints you should take as your rule, that the limb must be kept motionless; any motion, far from being useful, would excite inflammation. "So far we have considered only the fibro-seroua portions of a joint; but when an articulation has been for some time diseased—for example, after a couple of months in arthritis of the shoulder—the muscles, and especially the deltoid, become paralysed and extremely painful near their upper and lower attachments. Tou will only overcome this diffi- culty by examining the points just mentioned. If pressure on them is not painful, employ regular movements ; it is the best way of relieving the pains, and restoring the contractility of the muscles. Thus you will not now fear to act, armed as you are with means which show the time for movement; you will not fear even when the part is still swoUen, for the swelling also often yields only to exercise." It is in some such cases of simple stifi"ness that bone-setters occasionally gain brilliant results from their manipulations. Cases in tvhich no attempt should he made to restore mohility.—It may be laid down as a practical aphorism that in the ginglymoid articulations, especially the elbow, it is impossible to restore motion after a lapse of two months. In other joints, as the shoulder, the surgeon may act with some probability of success, after three or four months ; for the latter articulation has a loose capsular ligament, whilst the elbow, like other ginglymi, is tightly held by the lateral ligaments, which become thickened and contracted, so as to oiFer extraordinary resistance. Treatment hj the hand.—In slight or recent cases this method is sufficient. "Tou may have seen this morning a young man with frac- tured clavicle, who has hud the limb immobilised for thirty days ; the bandages were taken oif; the elbow was stiff", so that it could not be moved. It was important to overcome this complication. I seized his arm with one hand, and with the other I pressed on the forearm, but the biceps presented great resistance. I then had the shoulder' and arm fixed by assistants, and by pressing forcibly on the forearm I suc- ceeded in extending it, and then at once caused"the joint to perform all its natural functions. The violent pain felt by the patient disappeared as soon as the limb was extended. In such a case all that is necessary is to repeat once or twice the difficult movements ; there is no occasion for the use of any machine." On the next day there was slight trau- matic arthritis, with acute pain at the outer side of the joint, and slight crepitus in the bursa over the olecranon; twenty-four hours later it had again disappeared. It is more especially in unhealthy subjects, scrofulous children, or