BINOCULAU OPHTHALMOSCOPY. 245 the observev looks tlirougli it, almost Matliout being conscious of its pre- si'iice. If a little pains be taken in tlie first instance, the beginner will find no tlimonlty, except a liability to set the mirrors much too near or too far apart, in either case totally excluding one eye from participation in the visual act, and using, in fact, a monocular ophthalmoscope, with perfect definition, but no relief After once seeing the relief that may be obtained, the Avay in which the retinal vessels appear to stand out from the nerve entrance, this mistake would be impossible. The degree of relief afibrded by Messrs. Murray and Heath's instrument is superior to anything that I have been able to obtain with Dr. G-iraud-Teulon's, a circumstance to be explained possibly by the rarity of a perfect fit with the latter. One patient, in whom I carefully compared the powers of the two instruments, and the state of whose eye was well adapted for testing them, suff"ered from a condition the nature and cause of w^hich ought to be recorded. She had considerable detachment of the anterior portion of the retina on the nasal side of the right eye, as a consequence of that operation which the surgeons who perforin it term ' division of the ciliary muscle.' A puncture had been made into the eye, ostensibly for the relief of myopia, and the resulting subretinal haemorrhage or effusion had been sufficient to produce a lesion seriously and permanently injurious to vision." Dr. Knajjp (' Klin. Monatsbl. f. Augenh.,' 1863, p. 319) has employed the binocular ophthalmoscope of Girand-Teulon. He states that he has found great advantages in its use in pathological conditions of the eye. The distance of opacities in the vitreous from the retina can be immediately recognised. The diagnosis of even the least degree of retinal separation is easy. In cases of oedema or of inflammatory changes in the optic nerve, the binocular ophthalmoscope causes instant recognition of the elevation, both as to its nature and degree. The same is the case in respect to excavation from atrophy of the optic nerve, or from glaucoma. Swellings of the retina to twice or thrice its natural thickness could be observed, and, on the other hand, atrophy of the retina was equally characterised. Both white points and streaks, and the more extensive plastic exudations, or collections of pigment in the retina, can be distinguished with greater ease from similar atrophic spots or masses of pigment in the choroid; the differential diagnosis of ecchy- moses of the retina and choroid is also much facilitated. The author Avas able to recognise distinctly, in a case of retinitis from Bright's disease, that the collections of fat were placed in the central layers of the retina; from this and some similar cases he arrived at the con- clusion that fatty degeneration of the retina, in Bright's disease, com- mences in the granular layers, and that it does not attack the layers of gray cerebral substance and of nervous fibres till a later period. He points out, in respect to diseases of the choroid, that binocular oph- thalmoscopy is of great service in the diagnosis of choroidal exudations, and that atrophic and prominent portions of the choroid, which ex- tremely resemble one another when seen by the ordinary instrument, can be very distinctly recognised and distinguished from' one another. According to him, the steep margins of atrophic portions of the cho- roidal tissue, chiselled, as it were, in the choroid, which occur in caies