REPORT ON MlDWIFERYj ETC. 358 (4) Heretlie principal resistance is met with in tbo transverse diameter; tlie pressure, however, exerted by tlie head of the child against the tube- rosities of the ischium is strong enough to effect a partial separation of the bones. This happens entirely according to the mechanical laws of the lever: the diHtanco between the sacro-iliac symphysis and the tube- rosity of tlio ischium represents the long arm of the lever; this distance is 138 millimetres (about 5 inches). Thus a separation of the symphysis to the extent of only 2 millimetres on its lower end permits to the external end of the lever—i. e., the transverse diameter—an increase of nearly 2 centimetres (about one seveutli of an inch), and this is probably even greater. (5) Inasmuch as in women above the age of thirty the mobility of tlie symphysis is altogether nil, or at least very limited, the difRculty of the birth concentrates itself in the true pelvis, and in these cases, notwithstanding the otherwise normal structure of this, delivery must be frequently terminated by the forceps. EETROVEBSION OP THE aUAVID TJTEBTJS. Two cases are recorded by Mr. Hardey (' Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,' vol. v., p. 267). In the first case, all the symptoms of reten- tion of urine occurred suddenly in a woman at the end of the fourth month, of pregnancy. An ovarian tumour of the left side had seriously obstructed the delivery of her first child, nine months previously, and now prevented the nterus rising out of the pelvis. The bladder was relieved, and the nterus found retroverted, with its fundus lying deep within the recto-vaginal pouch. Eeduction was effected by placing the patient on her knees and elbows, and making steady pressure on the fundus with the right hand in the vagina. The recumbent position was maintained for a fortnight, and, five months after, she was delivered of a child at the full term. Death took place fourteen days after delivery, from strangulation of the intestine by the neck of the ovarian tumour, which, with the small intestines, was found twisted round the left Fallo- pian tube. In the second case profuse hasmorrhage preceded the expul- sion of a large blighted ovum in a woman who believed herself to be at the full term of pregnancy. The uterus was found retroverted, and reposition was effected as in the first case. The author adds a third case, in which retroversion occurred -with partial prolapsus vaginaj two days after delivery, at the eighth month of pregnancy. The uterus was replaced as in the other two cases, and sponge-pessaries worn for some time. Dr. Dickie records a similar case in a young unmarried woman who suffered from difficulty in micturition. Menstruation had ceased three months. A week later, complete retention of urine occurred, and the uterus was found enlarged and retroverted. Eeduction was effected, after the bladder had been relieved, by placing the patient in the prone position, and making pressure on the fundus with two fingers in the rectum. The patient afterwards admitted that she had taken large doses of croton oil to procure abortion, and the tenesmus thus caused probably produced prolapse of the posterior wall of the vagina and retroversion of the uterus. ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' April, 1863.)