KEPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEniA AlEDICA. 12S use, iu i rial Ly ordeal, at Caliibar. Swallowing the bean in this way is said to bo followed by violent thirst, paralysis of deglutition, and convulsive movements, afl'ecting especially the muscles of the back. Death occurs at the end of about half an hour, without being preceded by loss of consciousness. The cjuantity of the bean administered as an ordeal is variable; sometimes the kernel is given entire, sometimes an infusion is prepared. In the cases in which recovery takes place nausea is (piickly produced, and is followed by vomiting. The accused is then at once declared innocent. No fatal case of poisoning by this drug has yet occurred in this country. Doses of five to twelve grains have been taken by Dr. Fraser, Dr. Christison, and others. In about five minutes a peculiar sensa- tion comes on in the epigastrium, which gradually increases in intensity. Then repeated eructations occur; and a feeling of dyspnoea, dizziness, weakness of the extremities, twitches of the pectoral muscles, and dim- ness of vision, arc among the other effects noticed. The heart may become irregular and tumultuous, and the number of its pulsations may notably decrease. These symptoms gradually pass off. "When the extract is placed in contact with the conjunctiva it imme- diately causes a copious secretion of tears, and in about five minutes a distinct contraction of the pupil occurs, which is limited to the side to which the drug is applied. In half an hour the pupil is a mere speck, but still retains a certain degree of mobility. Slight headache, with dimness of vision and myopia, generally occur; but these effects soon pass off. The contracted state of the pupil lasts for twelve or fourteen hours, and it may not completely disappear for five or six days. Applied to the skin, the extract causes local numbness. Water and acetic acid do not appear to dissolve the active principle of the Calabar bean, but rectified spirit extracts it. Dr. Fra.ser uses a tincture made by treating an ounce of the finely powdered kernel with two ounces of spirit in a procolator. This quantity of spirit does not, liowever, exhaust the drug completely. Five minims of this tincture answer to about three grains of the kernel. The alcoholic extract of the bean, and a preparation in which this is suspended in water, are employed in ophthalmic medicine. Dr. Fraser has used the physostigma internally in cases of erysipelas, delirium tremens, febricula, acute bronchitis, and neuralgia. It is also useful as a local aj)plication to destroy pediculi. Dr. Eobertson ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' March, 1863, pp. 815, experimented on himself, with a view to ascertain the exact eftects of 1 his agent on the eyes. He recommends the use of syrup to suspend ihe spirituous extract, as the watery solution quickly spoils, and glyce- rine is apt to irritate the eyes. He employs a quantity of the extract which is equal to about half a grain of the bean, to produce contraction of the pupil. To neutralize the effects of a drop of a solution of atro- pine of the strength of gr. | to 5j, he uses two drops of a stronger solution of the extract, corresponding to eight grains of the bean ; even then the condition of the iris is only partially restored, though vision returns to its normal state. He differs from Dr. Fraser in ascribing the contraction of the pupil