13 DIGESTIOX. The ultimate analysis of albumen, peptone, and parapeptone, shows that tlie elemcnta are essentially unaltei-ed, and that the difference is one of molecular arrangement. Meissner and De Bary found tbat vegetable albuminous substances (from rye, wheat, and peas) gave the same results on artificial digestion or boiling with water as animal albumen, viz., parapeptone and two peptones. Parapeptone, by continued digestion or boiling, becomes less and less soluble, so tliat after a time it is precipitated even from the 2§ solution of HCi. This change, however, takes place with some kinds sooner than with others, and is especially rapid in that derived from casein and from tlie fibrin of blood, which is insoluble in the said solution immedi- ately on its production by the usual period of ai'tificial digestion. To tl)is'form of parapeptone it is that the name of dyspeptone Avas given, which accordingly is not a special substance, but is only parapeptone that has become less soluble. Scliiff has submitted the fact that an infusion of the pancreas doea not digest albumen during fasting to further examination. He found that to the charging of the pancreas with the necessary ferment for the digestion of albumen, two conditions are necessary—the presence of the so-called peptogene in the blood, and the act of absorption in the stomach. These two conditions are united when peptogenic substances are absorbed from the stomach, but they can be separated from each other; e. y., by injecting peptogene into the veins, and by causing non- albuminous bodies to be absorbed by the stomach. In this latter case it was found that the absorption of fat by the stomach was much more eftcctive than that of soluble starch. In general, those substances wliich, when absorbed by the stomach, acted least on the pancreas, were those which are chiefly taken up by the blood-vessels; those which are taken up chiefly by the lymph-vessels acted most. Since the act of absorption by the absorbents of the stomach is essential to the production of the digestive ferment in the pancreas, ISchiff concludes that it must occasion an alteration in the gland itself, in a reflex manner ; and, in fact, he observed that, after extirpation of the solar plexus or destruction of its connections with the spinal cord, tlie charging of the pancreas was absolutely prevented. This reflex change in the pancreas, Schiff believes, consists in the active dilatation of its vessels (sec ' Year-book,' 1861, pp. 87, 88), by which a path is opened to the blood through portions of the gland-tissue otherwise inaccessible, so tliat it comes into contact with special elements which before it did not reach. Schiff has seen the vessels of the pancreas apparently more numerous and penetrating in a digesting than in a fasting dog, and the secretion more abundant when the stomach absorbed without digesting. But the charging of the pancreas, according to Corvisart's and Schiff a observations, begins only in the fourth hour of digestion, while the vascular dilatation reaches its maximum in the second or even the first hour. jS'or docs the injection of more peptogene into the blood-vessels during the first hour of digestion hasten the charging. A third con- dition, therefore, is necessary, and Schiff finds it in an action exerted on