105 NERVOUS SYSTEM. necessarily ensue on every attack of diplitheria, and that then- frequency and intensity is by no means invariably proportional to the severity of the primary disease, he yet states that tlie more severe the case is the more likely is nervous disorder, as a general rule, to occur, and the more intense is it also likely to prove. Between the disappearance of the primary and the appearance of the secondary symptoms of diphtheria, a brief period of convalescence, varying from a few days to a few weeks, nsually intervenes. The occurrence of this interval shows that the nerve affections are not attributable either to the debility or anaemia induced by the disease, nor to the albuminuria which so often accompanies it. These nerve affections do not at once attain their maximum of intensity, but are progressive, although their progress even in the same sets of muscles, is sel- dom quite uniform. If several sets of muscles are attacked, the faucial or pharyngeal are almost invariably the first to suffer, next the sight becomes impaired, and subsequently the muscles of the tongue, of the lip, and of the upper and lower extremities, become affected in the order they are named, though it by no means follows that ail of them should be affected in the same individual. Ancesthesia has coexisted with the paralytic affection of the'fauces in all the cases that have come under Greenhow's observation; these organs, naturally so sensitive, become altogether in- sensible and callous, even to repeated and forcible pricks with the nib of a pen. In rare instances the speech becomes so inarticulate as to be almost unintelligible. It is worthy of note that the paralysis and anaes- thesia are sometimes more complete on that side of the fauces which was most severely affected in the early stage of the disease. Sometimes the pharyngeal muscles are also paralysed, and there is then more or less difficulty (sometimes alarming) in swallowing. The impairment of vision, wliich is probably due to paralysis of the ciliary muscle, is, perhaps, the next most frequent of these disorders. It sometimes comes on very suddenly, but is preceded for a day or two by dilatation and sluggish action of the iris, or actual paralysis of that structure. The tongue, lips, and cheeks, are often affected, not only in their motor power, but in their sensory also. The parts are numb or cold, or experience a sense of for- mication or of scalding, and taste is sometimes lost. The upper extremities are either first affected or simultaneously with the lower. The affection of the limbs comprises more or less complete paralysis and aneesthesia, besides tenderness and abnormal sensations, such as formication and a perception of tightness in the fleshy parts. In one case there were also convulsive movements, resembling chorea, when the patient attempted to use the limbs. Just as the sense of scalding and numbness always begins in the tip of the tongue and subsequently spreads along the organ, so also these affections of the limbs are at their commencement peripheral. Tingling is experienced in the tips of the fingers, accompanied by numb- ness, rendering the patient unable to pick up small objects. Presently these symptoms extend to the wrists and upwards to the elbows, and even to the shoulders, being especially felt, however, ou the palmar surface of the hands. The ailment runs a like course in the lower extremities, but also frequently extends to the muscles of the lower part of the back, and of the abdomen as high as the umbilicus. The limbs affected at first feel heavy and feeble, and a sensation of coldness often exists in them through-