llEi'OllT 0\ SUllGERY. ISO infinitely various. All that can be said is, that there are many kinds of putrid fermentation, and that thus it would be as useless to seek for a general disinfectant, which would act equally well in all cases, as to hunt after a universal i-emcdy. Disinfecting agents should—(i) destroy unpleasant odours ; (2) pro- mote cicatrization; (.3) chock tlie formation of pus, or change it from bad to healthy ; (4) especially and beyond all else, destroy miasms and emanations. The author has examined tlie air of rooms containing cases of measles and variola, and found gaseous organic matters which strongly reduced the permanganate of potash. Ilowevei-, the experi- ments of Gaspard have shown that men and animals can become accli- matised in pestilential spots ; and that where the man who has become accustomed to such exhalations can live, a new comer is rapidly attacked; the experiments of M. Bernard have proved the same thing of poisonous gases administered in small amounts. The author describes experi- ments which he has made with nearly all the agents recently recom- mended as disinfectants. Chloi'ine, bromine, and iodine, are the most typical disinfectants ; they decompose the various products of putre- faction, such as sulphuretted hydrogen or the sulphurets, ammonia, phosphoretted hydrogen, various organic matters, owing to their affinity for hydrogen ; they act as detergents, giving tone to the tissues and stimulating the vitality of the organs; they annihilate the action of venoms, of viruses, of putrefying matters, of all morbid products the introduction of which into the animal economy might become the source of fatal disorders. M. Keynoso showed in 1855 that bromine and iodine destroyed the poisonous property of curare. Gruided by these experiments, the author has experimented on pus from infecting chancres, on putrefying matters, on vaccine virus, and has always found the poisonous or special properties of these different products destroyed ; the experiments were made on men with the vaccine matter and syphilitic virus, and on animals with pus and putrefying substances. Bromine appears to be more energetic than iodine; but its odour is more unpleasant, its price is higher, and its action more irritating. He employs two compound iodine solutions—the one a weak solu- tion, in acute inflammations, or where much irritation should be avoided—the second, a strong one, in atonic and languid wounds. The weak solution is composed of— Tincture of iodine . . 5 grammes (gr. 77, about/3 i in xx). Iodide of potassium . .5 „ („ 77). Water . . . . i litre (2"i x)ints). Nitro-benzine . . .20 drops. The strong solution contains— Tincture of iodine . . 20 grammes (about /3 v m xx). Iodide of potassium . .10 „ Water i litre. Nitro-benzinc . . .20 drops. A child, aged five and a half years, was affected with a most fetid gangrene of the mouth. Various disinfectants, such as compounds of coal-tar, carbon, the hypochlorites, were employed without success ; the patient had to be placed in a separate ward. The weak solution, diluted