317 LITHOTOMY IN THE PEiMALE. "Though incision of the urethra downioards towards the vagina is in every way objectionable, it is otherwise as regards incisions made in an ttpw'ard direction. By dividing the nrethra and neck of the bladder towards the symphisis pubis, room may be obtained for the extraction of a moderate-sized stone, without injury to any important structure, and Avithont the disadvantage of laying one mucous canal open into another, wlien the two are only separated naturally by a very thin par- tition." Mr. Lane would prefer:—"If any incision of the urethra is to be made to depend upon incision alone, rather than combine it with dilatation; and I believe that by so doing the chance of incontinence would be diminished. Of all the urethral methods, it appears to me that the incision upwards is the only one at all deserving of confidence. It is, perhaps, not altogether devoid of the risk of urinary infiltration into the loose areolar tissue between the bladder and the symphysis pubis; but the urethra, which is situated at tlae bottom of the incision, forms so convenient a groove for the escape of urine, tliat this risk is probably not very great. I should myself, in a suitable case, always prefer the vaginal incision, as attended with less risk at the time, and less danger of subsequent incontinence; but the urethral incision, for a moderate-sized stone, is undoubtedly a much easier and less trouble- some operation. " The lateral operation is a method which, though it can scarcely be called new, is not at all generally known, and not nearly so well known as, I think, it deserves to be. It is, as neai-ly as the diflerent structure of the parts will permit, the exact counterpart of the lateral operation in the male. It may be pei-formed in the following manner:—a straight grooved staff having been introduced into the bladder, an incision is to be made on the inner surface of the left nympha, commencing half an inch above the meatus urinarius, and passing obliquely downwards and outwards parallel with the rami of the pubes and ischium. This in- cision should be carried deeply into the space between the rami on the outside and the vagina on the inside, care being taken not to wound the vagina, which should be protected, and pushed inwards towards the median line by the left forefinger, introduced into the wound. With the same finger the stafi" should be felt for deeply in the wound, and the knife should be made to penetrate the groove at a point corresponding, as nearly as can be judged, to the vesical termination of the urethra. It sliould then be passed onwards into the bladder, its cutting edge being turned obliquely downwards and outwards towards the left side, just as in lateral lithotomy in the male. The incision may be enlarged, should it be thought necessary, as the knife is withdrawn, by a further division of the tissues in the same oblique direction. The ordinary lithotomy forceps can then be introduced into the wound for the extrac- tion of the stone. This operation, or something very like it, seems to ])ave been practised by Frere Jacques. It has been condemned in suc- cession by several writers of note, but, as it appears to me, without sufficient grounds. Its revival, or, I might almost say, its introduction, is due to I)r. Andrew Bucliauau, of Glasgow." The author terminates his remarks by submitting for consideration the conclusions which he has himself formed, " Avith reference to the