256 llEPORT ON SUnOEEY. cases one eye had become blind from glaucoma cum ophthalmia, tlie other presented symptoms of glaucoma simplex. Tiie lii'st symptom is increased tension of tlie globe. The " amaurosis with excavation " of Von Grafo is the glaucoma simplex of Bonders, for in all cases that presented the characteristic form of excavation—that reaching to the edge of the papilla—ho has found increased pressure. Not only can the increased pressure be felt by the finger in such cases, but its existence is also shown by tlie excavation, the more ready occurrence of arterial pulsation, by diminished depth of the anterior chamber, by the in- creased size of the subconjunctival vessels, and by the diminished range of accommodation. The slower the increase of intraocular pressure, the deeper does the excavation become, before it interferes with vision, just as very great Eressure can be borne on the brain provided it progresses very slowly. _ >onders has also found that the eye is less inclined to be attacked with inflammation when the pressure increases very slowly ; inversely, a deep excavation and little loss of vision justify the supposition that the course of the disease has been slow. What von Griife described as the premonitory stage is for the author glaucoma itself—glaucoma simplex, and identical with " amaurosis with excavation." The difference between the author's opinion and that of von Griife consists in the former believing that the increased intraocular pressure is present from the very commencement of the disease, whilst the latter appears inclined to attribute it to the inflammation which so often occurs at a subsequent period. The pressure very rapidly aug- ments when inflammation occurs; but even when no inflammatory symptoms have supervened, we find that the eye becomes, in the course of years, as hard as stone, and totally blind. Such a case has continued one of glaucoma simplex. The inflammation is a complication, though truly one of very frequent occurrence. The conclusions of the author are as follows : 1. Glaucoma simplex may run its course to total bUndness without the occurrence of ophthalmia, the globe becomiug of stony hardness, the papilla of the optic nerve becoming much excavated and atrophied, but the media remaining clear. 2. Symptoms of inflammation, characterised by congestion of the vessels, pain, and turbidity of the media, very often complicate glaucoma simplex, especially in its earlier stages. These symptoms lead to perfect blindness, either by violent attacks with intermissions, or as an insidious inflammation with repeated slight exacerbations. When inflammation occurs, the tension becomes notably augmented, and the symptoms dependent upon pressure rapidly progress. 3. It is not proved that a primary glaucomatous inflammation occurs in any case where the intraocular pressure has not been already increased. As to the origin of the affection, the author sets up the hypothesis that it depends on a condition of irritation of the ner\ es, which regulate secretion in the eye. Douders traces' a connection between the arterial pulsation and the interference with the ])owcr of vision. He has found, by pressing on