362 REPOIIT ON MIDWIFERY. portionate eulargement of the uterus, and the subsequent expulsion of the hydatidiform mass after slight or severe hseniorrhage. From these and otlier cases wo may iufer that this degeneration of the chorion villi is most likely to happen after incomplete abortion about the sixth or eighth week of pregnancy. ABXOEMAL CONDITIOKS OF THE PELVIS. Dr. Olshausen, in a paper " On the Obliquely Distorted Pelvis, with Sacro-iliac Anchylosis" ('Mon. £ Geb.,' March, 1862, and 'Year-book,' 1862, p. 341), contests the opinion held by Simon Thomas, and Martin, that this distortion might arise from disease ending in anchylosis of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and believes that Litzman's view is correct, which is that the anchylosis as well as the peculiar shape of the pelvis in these cases is due to the pressure upwards from the hip-joint on the affected side. Professor Thomas upholds his views in an essay (' Mon. f. Geb.,' Nov., 1862). Mr. Blair records a case of " Deformity of the Coccyx complicating Labour and causing Eecto-vaginal Pistula" ('Aus- tralian Med. Jour.,' Oct., 1862). Dr. G. Braun reports a series of cases in which labour was obstructed by immovable pelvic tumours. (' Wien. Med. Wochensch.,' xiii, 1863.) ABNOBMAL COKDITIONS OE THE TTTEEUS. M. Mattel, " On Complete Obliteration of the Os Uteri as a Cause of Difficult Labour" ('Brit. Med. Jour.' vol. ii, p. 401, 1862). The following is a summary of the views of the author, from a memoir on the above subject, founded on an analysis of forty-two cases. I. The complete occlusion of the cervix uteri, whether at its orifices or within its cavity, may be the result of local inflammatory action; but in the majority of cases (in nineteen out of thirty-one), it has been the result of the organization of the plastic plug which is found within the cervix during gestation. 2. This obliteration scarcely ever prevents the pregnancy reaching its full period, and sometimes even retards it. Examination alone reveals it at the time of labour. 3. The occlusion is generally (thirty-six times out of forty-two), sufficiently firm to resist the natural efforts, to such an extent, that the woman has, in some cases (three in forty-two), died undelivered. "Where interference has been tardy, the death of the child (in seven cases out of twenty-eight), and even the death of the mother (in two out of twenty-eight cases), have been the result. 4. When the obstacle has not been very resisting, the male or the female catheter has sufficed to overcome it; but when these do not succeed, the scissors or bistoury must be resorted to. ^. The bistoury has been in general preferred, but the liability to hffimorrhage, the danger of the angles of the wound enlarging beyond the point of incision, and the possibility of injuring the fcetal struc- tures, are objections to its employment. 6. The point of the grooved director, applied wdth force during the uterine contraction at the lowest part of the tumour, or, when it can be recognised, at the point occupied by the cervix, will eflect a passage through the tissues, and so (lyert the danger iuQident to the employment of the bistoury,