114 REPOllT ON PEACTICAL MKUICINE. creased, ouo or botli, every fourteen days, by gr. i, until the amount reaches lo, 12, or even 16 grains for a dose. BjillTUiuii.—On the Treatment of Clironic Diarrhoea in the Insane. Gaz, des Hop., /i, 1S63. Sclimidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. .347. The disorder in question is of atonic character, and depends on defec- tive innervation. Tlie best treatment consists in the administration of dry roast meat, moistened with some coffee or pure wine. The hygienic arrangements must be good, and no medicines are to be given. The importance of attention to hygiene is evidenced by the comparative iufre- quency of the disorder iu all good asylums. CiiiciiTON Browne, J.—On Mania Ejihemera. Med. Critic and Psy- cholog. J., Jan., 1863. No differential diagnosis, the author states, is yet established between ordinary and ephemeral mania; the following particulars, however, are mentioned in which the two are dissimilar. In a large majority of cases of mania ephemera there are none of those premonitory symptoms which so generally herald the approach of ordinary mania. The sufferer may be weak, ausemic, and in bad bodily health; but until the occurrence of the exciting cause, the mind most commonly remains unclouded. So also during the paroxysm the involvement of the mind seems usually to be less deep and entire than in ordinai-y mania. In ephemeral mania there is generally more regard for cleanliness and decency than in mania proper, and the language also is less blasphemous and obscene. Destructive tendencies and homicidal impulses are frequent in mania ephemera, rendering it a dangerous malady, and one which may easily give rise to medico-legal problems. Many of the epidemic psychopathies which have from time to time appeared seem to have been epidemics of ephemeral mania. The treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles, the object being to calm, support, and give tone. The duration of the attack does not usually exceed forty-eight hours, and the author warns against the mistake of removing the patient to an asylum, which is quite un- necessary. Carmichael McIntosh, W.—On Morbid Impulse. Med. Critic and Psycholog. J., Jan., 1863, There are four ways (as stated by Dr. W. A. F. Browne) in which the onset of the malady may arise, (i) It may arise suddenly, strongly, irresistibly, and precipitate the actor into a course diametrically opposed to his previous character. (2) Or a passion may be nursed and nourished until it obtain dominion over every restraining power. Tendencies in themselves hideous, long subdued by reason and I'eligion, or disguised by prudence, are developed by the decay and deterioration of better ivinciples, by external temptations. (4) Tiie moral sense is warped, as the will or the imagination is, by cerebral disease. The causes of morbid impulse are in a great measure the same as those exciting any form of insanity—hereditary influence, imitative sympathy, favorable opportuni- ties, blood disease, or visceral, cerebral injuries, coup de soleii, epilepsy, exposure to cold, abuse of alcoholic stimulants, bad education, prolonged seclusion, all may have this effect.