Klil'OllT ON PllACnCAL MEDICINE, 1-1.8 the blood on the right side of the heart was congulatcd. Richardson con- cludes that avtificiiil rcspirntion, if it fails at first, if it does not catch the column of blood which may be crossing the pulmonic circuit, instead of being a means of restoring life, causes death. In 16 instances, as soon as the artificial rcsjjiration was fairly set up, the cheist-wall was neatly removed, and the effects of the insufflation on the heart were observed. In every instance where this was done the right auricle was seen pulsating, and often the ventricle, but this contraction was never sufficient to fill tije pulmonic circuit. It is worthy of observation, nevertheless, that when- ever the air thrown into the lungs is heated above 96° there is an excess in the cardiac action, which excess is very great at a temperature of 120° but even then the action is insufficient to cause a pulmonic current. The increased action is due to the diffused caloric, or it may be excited by simple exposure of the heart to external heated air. The influence of heated air on the dead heart deserves faithful record and remembrance. With oxygen gas no better success was obtained. After death the lungs were found to be unusually red; the left side of the heart was contracted, and the right side full of coagulated blood. Trials with oxyhydrogen, very dilute chlorine air, and ozonized air, all failed to reanimate, and Richardson concludes that all attempts to restore life by artificial respira- tion fail whenever -the action of the heart has ceased. Whenever the action of the heart has not stopped, and a breath of new air restores the heart, respiratory acts will follow as the muscles of respiration receive a new charge of renovated blood. Hence the respiratory act is an act second to the circnlatory, and artificial respiration is really a remedy acting primarily on the heart. There is, however, reason to think that the respiration of ozonized air in cases of slow poisoning by the more fixed narcotics, as opium, would be of essential service. As to methods of performing artificial respiration Richardson prefers the double-acting bellows to any, and in their absence he would use Dr. Silvester's. As to galvanism as a means of restoring life, Richardson says it can be tried as a means to excite the respiration, or to excite the heart. By adapting a metronome to an induction apparatus, it was found practicable to excite an artificial respiration singularly natural in its appearance. The best position for the poles was found to have one inserted through the larynx, and the other through a floating rib, including a few lines of the diaphragm. Richardson repeated, with this arrangement, all the experi- ments which had been made with the bellows, but the results were ail equally negative. The same was the case when the current was used to excite the heart. There is, however, a considerable risk, in galvanizing the heart, of exhausting speedily its irritability, and so actually paralysing it. The next means of resuscitation tried was injection into the chambers of the circulation of some substance possessing the power of exciting mus- cular contraction. Warm water, moist oxygen, peroxide of hydrogen, and ammonia, were tried, but no satisfactory result was obtained. The exciting influence of the latter on the heart and on the muscles was very remarkable. Richardson next inquires whether more good may not be accomplished by trying to set the circulation into action by mechanical means. He argues, if warm blood, or even Marni water, taken from an external source, will reanimate muscular fibre, as we know it will, J