llEPOET OX PRACTICAL JIEDTCINK. 172 which Bomotimes iucrenses paroxymally for some hours to n deathly anguish, with occasionnl syncope and intermittent weak pulse. In many, especially in grave cases, violent sweating occurs, with an eruption of miliaria. Consciousness is unimpaired, and only sometimes is there slight nocturnal delirium. After from three to five days the swelling of the face mostly subsides, while oedema of the limbs appears, especially of the lower. At the same time there comes on remarkable painfulness and stiffness of the back and limbs, so tliat they are kept motionless in a semi- flexed position, and resent even the slightest touch of the skin. The mus- cles are contracted, swollen, hard, and in a condition similar to that of rigor mortis. In some instances the patients were completely paralysed, and could not even turn or raise themselves in bed; some even could not carry food to their mouth. A not uncommon and early symptom was hoarse- ness or loss of voice, which reminds one of the statements of Ilenle, BischofF, and Virchow, as to the very abundant development of trichinae ill the small muscles of the larynx. Sometimes dysphagia was observed, or strabismus, or incomplete mobility of the eye. Recovery in most cases ensued very gradually after some weeks, the symptoms slowly subsiding. Diarrhoea and sweating continue, however, for a length of time; and numerous pustules break out on the skin, especially of the back, and change into small, very painful ulcers, or in exceptional cases are asso- ciated with gangrenous spots. Desquamation of the skin, falling off of the nails, glandular inflammations, and subcutaneous abscesses, are observed in some instances. Moderate muscular pains and extraordinary emacia- tion of the limbs remain often for weeks after recovery, and may, per- haps, be regarded as the signs of a chronic state of the disorder. If the trichinae in the muscles are not yet enclosed in chalky capsules, it is pro- bable that there are still mature individuals in the intestines, which will daily make their way outwards. It is, therefore, of the first importance to clear out the intestines by active purgation. Kuchenmeister recom- mends calomel and jalap, followed the next day by jalap with poM'der of male fern. For the purpose of destroying the trichinae on their way to the muscles, Kuchenmeister and others recommend 01. Terebinth., and Friedreich picronitrate of potash, which has an intensely bitter taste, and stains all the tissues, except the nervous centres, yellow. Its dose is ^ grains ter die. Friedreich asserts that it produced rapid amelioration in his patients, but this seems to require confirmation. Trichinae appear to be very tenacious of life, having been found in putrid and in frozen meat, as well as in salt and smoked. Unless, therefore, great care is taken that pork, in all its varieties, is thoroughly cooked, infection may easily occur. Kuchenmeister and Leuekart have performed numerous experiments with animals to determine the effect of different modes of preparation on tri- chinae contained in pork. They find (i) that smoked sausages contain a very considerable number of living trichinae, though not so many as to cause any grave disease in the animals experimented on. (2) Most of the trichinae are destroyed when ham is properly prepared, i. e. laid in brine for two days, and then smoked for three, but a small number of the parasites still remain capable, if the ham is eaten raw, of developing other individuals. (3) Pork which has been salted for at least ten weeks, whether smoked or not, is quite harmless.