DIAGNOSIS OP HERNIA. 287 lation due to the neck of the sac. Grurgling does not always accompany the return of the howel, but the relaxation of the tumour, and the possibility of feeling with the finger and through the sac the aperture into the abdomen are sufficient proofs. An objection to this method has been drawn from the occasional seat of the stricture in the neck of the sac. Dupuytren declared in 1818 that six times out of nine, strangulation was caused by the neck of the sac. Not much later, A. Berard raised the proportion to eight out of nine; and ultimately Malgaigne maintained in 1840 that genuine stran- gidation was always caused by the neck, and that the cases of supposed strangulation by the rings were cases of inflammation of the hernial sac. The author has found that strangulation of a hernia by the neck of the sac is not a frequent obstacle to reduction, either because such a form of strangulation is rarer than supposed, or because the resistance of the neck is not so great as to reqiiire incision; thus, in his sixth case, where the neck of the sac was very hard and contracted, reduction was effected by moderate pressure on the sac for eight or ten rninutes. Such a condition of the neck of the sac may be expected when a hernia comes down after the long-continued use of a truss. Its most certain character is the continued hardness of the pedicle after division of the fibrous rings. The author recommends that, when the rupture is very large, when the symptoms are those of inflammation of the sac rather than of genuine strangulation, when the bowel is adherent, or when there is some reason to suspect gangrene, the intestine should not be reduced; the case should, however, be very carefully watched, so that the sac may be opened, if at any time it appears absolutely necessary. C. HoUhouse, clinical lecture on the diagnosis of hernial and other tumours of the groin and scrotum ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1863, i, 129, 286).—"A man, set. 47, was lately admitted with strangulated hernia, supposed to be inguinal. A tumour of an oblong form occupied the left inguinal region; its long axis was parallel with Poupart's ligament, and it projected a little above this structure. It differed, however, from an inguinal hernia in the following important parti- culars :—(i) Its outline was more defined; (2) it was more prominent; (3) it was more superficial. An inguinal hernia in this situation must have been wholly or in part within the inguinal canal, and therefore beneath the aponeurosis of the external oblique, which, owing to its un- yielding nature, would have prevented such a prominence and such a definition of the tumour as was here apparent; but the decisive test for determining whether it were an inguinal or a femoral hernia consisted in carrying the finger into the inguinal canal. This you saw me do; invaginating a portion of the skin of the scrotum on the end of my forefinger, I passed it into the inguinal canal, and found this passage free, and the tumour lying in front of my finger. There could be no doubt, then, that this was a femoral hernia. The taxis having failed to return the hernia, the usual operation was performed, and the patient left the hospital well a few days ago." Mr. Holthouse classes the swellings which bear some resemblance to hernia under two heads;—(i) Those situated in the neighbourhood of