uei'out on physiology. 14 the peptogeue through the spleen, which lie has previously found reason to think exerts an action of this kind. As confirmatory of tliis view, he refers to the fact that the spleen undergoes a turgescence during diges- tion, which reaches its maximum about the fifth hour—the same at wliich the charging of the pancreas also is greatest. Experiments were instituted in which the spleen was extirpated, or its vessels tied, and, according to expectation, it was found that the infusion of the pancreas exhibited no power of digesting albumen, while that of the stomach was increased two or threefold. This latter fact was expected also, since the stomach can be charged with unaltered jDcptogene, and this, after extir- pation of the spleen, accumulates more largely in the blood. These experiments were performed on dogs and cats, the pylorus and some- times the oesophagus being also tied. Parallel experiments were per- formed, in which every step was the same, except the removal of the spleen or ligature of its vessels. In a cat, after ligature of the splenic vessels and pylorus, dextrin and artificially digested albumen were in- jected into the stomach. After six hours, the infusion of the stomach digested the enormous amount of eleven and a half Avhites of eggs ; that of the pancreas none. In some cases in which the spleen, though not tied nor removed, yet did not become turgid, the pancreas was not charged, and the same result followed the abolition of its function by painting it with ammonia. Also, when the splenic vessels are tied, no digestion of albumen takes place in the duodenum of dogs, a ligature being placed on the pylorus. Experiments with vegetable feeders yielded the same results. As by removal of the spleen the abolished digestive function of the pancreas is laid upon the stomach, so in removal, injury, or disease of the pancreas, the stomach also takes on a compensatorj^ action, becom- ing more strongly charged with peptogeue. So loss of function of the pancreas is innocuous in respect of nutrition, for the same reason that removal of the spleen is so. The use of the pancreas in respect to the digestion of albuminous substances lies in the fact that the gastric juice never completely re- solves these substances into soluble absorbable forms, but always with the peptones produces also perapeptone, which requires further change before it can be used for nutrition. This change, as IMeissner has shown, the pancreatic juice effects. When the pancreas cannot act, as after removal of the spleen, the parapeptone is unused, and more pep- tone is needed to supply its place. Thus is sufficiently explained the increased appetite so often observed after removal of the spleen, the degree of which depends upon the extent to which the albumen of the food is capable of being converted into peptones by the stomach. On a flesh diet the increase of appetite is greater than on a vegetable diet. In tins connection, a case reported by Adelmaun, in the * Deutsche Klinik' for 1856 is interesting. A woman, aged 22, suffered in con- sequence of an injury from a hernia of the spleen, for which the organ was removed. In thirty days she left the hospital in perfect health, and so remained, but her appetite was enormous. The absorption of fat, Schiff thinks, is increased after removal of the spleen, because, owing to the greater digestive activity of the stomach,