258 KErORT ON SUEGEEY. decides the urgency of the operation; if not much deteriorated, and if the ciliary neuroses are extremely violent, some delay and the previous use of subcutaneous injections of gr. -i to -J- of morphia may be advisable. He has seen, in old persons beyond fifty-five years, although ex- tremely seldom (only four times), vision entirely lost in the course of a few hours, even in half an hour. He assigns to these cases the name of glaucoma fulminaus. No cases more urgcjitly require immediate operation. In one case, where no perception of light remained, the operation Avas performed twenty-eight hours after the occurrence of blindness ; the ])atient could see next day the motions of a hand, and on the third day count fingers; the vision continued to improve till she could read Jiiger's No. 3 at ten inches' distance ; it has for the last year and a half remained unchanged. Another case, in which not a trace of quantitative perception of light remained, was operated on the third day after the supervention of blindness ; two days later there was a very little perception of liglit, and after eight days the patient could count fingers in a small part of the visual field. In two months the improvement had reached its acme, so that No. 6 could be read at ten inches by means of convex glasses. In a third case the operation was performed after a period of fourteen days ; it relieved the inflammatory symptoms, but had only a temporary effect on the vision; the very slight quantitative perception of light which ensued was again entirely lost in six weeks. The fourth patient was not seen until five weeks after the attack, which had caused total blindness in an hour and a half. No operation was performed. These cases show, von Grafe remarks, that it is not always easy to decide that all vision is lost. He has seen four or five patients who could not distinguish the light of a brightly burning lamp, close at hand, from darkness, and who yet could accurately perceive the motion of a hand in a small portion of the visual field to the outer side. The earlier the operation, the better is the result. In reference to some real or supposed inconveniences of iridectomy in glaucoma, the author remarks— (1) That its performance in the acute form, but in that only, on one eye, hastens the outbreak of the disease in the other. Forty-three cases were submitted to operation during the first period of acute glaucoma, at a time when the other eye was either normal or only in the premonitory stage. Out of these cases an acute attack occurred in the second eye in nine instances within fourteen days from the former operation. Out of more than eighty cases, where the first eye had not been treated by opera- tion, the second eye was attacked in only five within a month from the commencement of the disease. Such a circumstance should induce the surgeon to watch these patients carefully. (2) That iridectomy in glaucoma does not promote the formation of cataract unless the capsule be accidentally injured. In more thau four hundred cases of operation for glaucoma von Griife lias seen cataract only once occur immediately after the operation, and in that case the capsule had been wounded. He takes this opportunity to remark that he had expressly recommended in his first publication on the subject (as Arlt has also done recently) a broad excision of the iris, reachmg to