411 ARSENIC. tbe quantity of it dissolved in the application of Reinscli'a test is so small as to be scarcely appreciable. He recommends that the copper, cut into fine pieces, be placed in a small tube-retort, with an excess of hydrochloric acid, and so mucli ferric hydrate or chloride, as contains a proportion of iron double that of the copper used. Heat is then to be applied, when the whole of the copper is dissolved. On distilling to dryness, any arsenic present in the copper passes over as chloride. The distillate may be dissolved in a little dilute hydrochloric acid, and tested with sulphuretted hydrogen or pure copper gauze. The reason for using ferric chloride is that this agent does not give oft' any chlorine gas when heated with hydi-ochloric acid, as is the case when other oxygenants are used. If chlorine be generated, it passes over into the receivers, and prevents the immediate application of the tests to the distillate. Cupric oxide or chloride, on the other hand, is scarcely active enough for this purpose; and the solution of copper in hydro- chloric acid, brought about by mere exposure to the air, is exceedingly tedious. It may be well to add that ferric chloride may itself be ren- dered quite free from arsenic by evaporating it once or twice to dryness ■with excess of hj'drochloric acid. Millon and Commaille ('Journ. de Pharm. at de Chim.,' Aug., 1863, p. 97) advise for the complete purification of copper from all traces of arsenic the foUoAAong process, which is stated to be more effectual than even the deposition of copper by the galvanic current. The metal to be purified is dissolved by ebullition in commercial sulphuric acid, diluted with half its weight of water. All the arsenic present, whether derived from the acid or from the copper, is deposited in a black powder (known as the oxysulphuret of copper), on which boiling sulphuric acid has no action. Thus the sulphate of copper formed is quite free from arsenic. Its aqueous solution can be poiu-ed off" from the black powder and crys- tallized. The salt still contains iron, and often zinc, but it may be com- pletely separated from these metals by deposition by a galvanic battery. Dr. J. Davy ('Ed. New Phil. Journ.,' vol. xviii, No. i, p. 42) has visited the Whitbeck stream in Cumberland, and confirms the state- ments that its water contains arsenic in the proportion of "008 grain to the pint. The people did not appear to be in any way affected, either for good or evil, by the use of the water. It had been asserted that those who came to the place suffered at first from soreness of the throat, but of this he could find no evidence. No fish exist in the stream ; and Dr. Davj^ mentions the instance of Ullswater, where the chaiT has completely disappeared, apparently in consequence of the water of a lead-mine, which he has found to contain arsenic, flowing into the lake. He also says that, as had been previously stated by Mr. Church, no ducks can be bred in the village. The vegetation on the banks of the stream appears to be quite unaflfected. He did, indeed, notice a maple some of the branches of which were dead, but the cause of this was quite uncertain. M. Pecholier ('Eev. Mt'd.,' p. 500, 186.3) relates to the Academy of Sciences some experiments made with the object of determining"the