SECEETORY SYSTEM. 17Gc> dependence of urfemic phenomena on tlie trnnsformatiou of urea into this agent. Other amraoniacal salts, as the muriate and oxalate, have the same eSect. It appears from other experiments that urea is not decomposed in the blood of healthy animals; Stokvis adopts Treitz's view, that this decomposition takes place in the intestinal canal, which is found, after extirpation of the kidneys, or in cases of renal degeneration, to contain large quantities of ammonia. Stokvis, B. J.—On Albuminuria. Nederl. Tijdschr. v. Geneesk., vi, July, i8(52. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. ii8, p. 38. By experiments on himself and on animals, Stokvis found that removal of chloride of sodium to a great extent from the food did not cause albuminuria. The only result was that the per-centage of chloride fell from I to -1.—Dilution of blood by the cautious injection of water in quantities varying from 2^ to 810 cc, both after bleeding and without it, did not produce albuminuria. There was only one case which formed an apparent exception, and in this blood was mingled with the urine, and the animal died in violent convulsions, showing that the pressure of blood in the vessels was increased. Introduction of fluid albumen into the stomachs of rabbits and dogs caused albuminuria ; in the first, on the third or fourth day after the commencement of this diet; in the second, on the sixth or seventh. Eating eight or ten raw eggs on an empty stomach did not induce albuminuria in Stokvis, nor in two other individuals. Injection of fluid or albumen into the veins produces albuminuria, which lasts a longer or shorter time, and which is sometimes attended with hrematuria. Ser-albumen, injected even in large quantities, did not pro- duce albuminuria. This difference Stokvis refers to a difference in the composition of the two principles, but on the nature of this difference, whether chemical or physical, he does not decide. The author concludes, from his researches, that albuminuria may exist without renal disease, and,, further, that it is not dependent on mere dilution of blood or deranged innervation. He considers that it probably depends on an altered quality of the albumen of the blood, such that it comes to resemble albumen with respect to its diffusion power in the kidneys. The following expe- riment is related in confirmation of this view. One dog had 130 cc. of urine, containing 079 per cent, of albumen, from a patient thus affected, injected (into his stomach?), and evacuated on the following day; o'4i per cent, of albumen with his urine, on the next day 0*40 per cent., on the third day only traces, and on the fourth day none. An experiment with a rabbit gave the same result. In another dog, who had 135 grammes of normal urine, mixed with ox-blood-serum in the proportion of i '59 per cent, injected, there was no trace of albumen in the urine. Peteoff, a.—On VrcEtnia. Virchow's Archiv, xxv, p. 91, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 3^. Petroff, from experiments on animals, arrives at the following results : (i) When the functions of the kidneys are interrupted, Amnion. Garb, is formed in the blood. (2) Injections of Amnion. Garb, into the blood produce phenomena which are quite similar to the urcemic. (3) The degree in which these appear, and their character, depend on the amount