REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 404 time when the ulceration of the oosophagus and stomach was most intense, and disappeared when that morbid process diminished, it is clear that it was due to reflected impressions, caused by irritation of the nerves of those parts. Dr. Heginbothom ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' vol. i, 1863, p. 183) relates a case of poisoning by six drachms of sulphuric acid, of sp. gr. 1-848, diluted with eighteen drachms of water, which was fatal in two and a half hours. The symptoms were those of collapse. There was neither vomiting nor purging. Stringy mucus and froth were dis- charged from the mouth, and dark-brown foam from the nostrils. The tongue and fauces were white, the oesophagus thrown into folds, brown, and ha^^ng a tesselated or worm-eaten appearance ; there was no breach of surface. The stomach contained a pint of black, acid, tenacious fluid, and was lined with a firmly adherent, black, gelatinous coat. The rapi- dity of the death M as explicable partly by the drunken habits of the man, and partly by the fact that the stomach was empty when the poison was swallowed. NITRIC ACID. Wunderlich ('Arch. d. Heilk. Vierordt,' Heft ii, 1863, p. 183) records a case of poisoning by a teaspoonful of concentrated nitric acid. The usual effects occui'red; but on the second day they were followed by dysenteric symptoms and by suppression of urine, which continued till death. This was preceded also by delirium and unconsciousness, and took place on the eighth day. The ordinary appearances produced by the acid were found in the throat, oesophagus and stomach. The mucous membrane of the small intestine was healthy; but the whole of the large intestine, from the csecum to the anus, was inflamed, as in dysentery, and presented extensive false membranes and ulcers. Both kidneys were enlarged, their surface yellowish-white, adherent to the capsule, covered with ecchymoses; their coi-tical substance twice as thick as in the natural condition, bloodless, with a spotted yellow-white appearance. The epithelium of the uriniferous tubules was opaque and finely granular ; no casts were seen in their interior. The bladder was empty. JHOSPHORTTS. Numerous papers on poisoning by phosphorus are to be found in the foreign, and especially in the German, journals for the past year, which fully confirm the modern views of the similarity of the symptoms with those of acute atrophy of the liver, and of the rapidity with which fatty degeneration of almost all parts of the body occurs in these cases. M. Bucquoy (' Un. Med.,' 1863, No. 81) relates a case of this kind, in which even the brain was found in a state of fatty degeneration. He also remarks that it contained an enormous quantity of phosphorus. M. Lancereaux (' Un. Med.,' No. 82) goes over the whole subject, and relates four cases which support the new views. E. Wagener (' Wagner's Arch.,' 1862, iv ; Canstatt, Band vii, p. 67) publishes a case of phosphorus poisoning in a girl aged thirteen. Fat was found in the parenchyma of the liver, in the renal cpitlielium, in