DISEASES OF WOMEN. 399 the eflfects of tonics and of full diet should be carefully watched, since there is danger of over-stimulation. Pure air, however, " is the best of tonics," and from this change, if it can be safely enjoyed, the patient will derive the greatest benefit. The cases where the catamenia reappeared all ended in recovery, and had no relapse. It is almost needless to add, that sexual intercourse must be strictly prohibited as long as any vestige of the disease remains. If the disease should pass into the suppurative stage, the treatment must be directed with a view of hastening forward the abscess, supporting the woman's strength, and alleviating any promi- nent symptom that may be present. During this stage the patients often become much exhausted, especially from diarrhoea, and the difficulty in the treatment is to administer the necessary support without over-stimulating the patient, and so increasing the fever Avhich is always present to a greater or less degree. The tenesmus, which is generally a distressing symptom if the abscess be point- ing in the rectum, and after it has burst into the bowel, will be best relieved by enemata or suppositories of opium. The dysentery wliich supervenes in these cases will be the more profuse and unmanage- able, the higher the point of communication between the abscess and the gut, and to check it the most careful treatment, dietetic and medi- cinal, will be required. On the propriety of opening the abscess, the author observes :—" Where the abscess points externally, an artificial opening is desirable, but this should not be made till the matter is near the surface. A free opening should be made with the lancet, and it is better to let the matter exude spontaneously, or, at least, to make only very gentle pressure." If, however, the abscess tend towards the vagina, be prominent and distinctly fluctuating, and causing much dis- tress, the bistoury may be used, though the author believes it better to let it burst of itself when pointing in this situation, and this was the course almost invariably adopted in his cases. M. B16t, in a treatise on the " Slowness of the Pulse in the Puerperal State," arrives at the following conclusions. 'Archiv. G6u. de M^d.,' Sept. 1863. (a) Healthy lying-in-women in general have a pulse which has become more or less slow. (J) Three series of observations, made in the Clinical Institution and iu the Hotel Dieu, prove that the frequency of this phenomenon necessarily alternates with the state of health of the patient. In the physiological condition, the slowness of the pulse seems to be a general fact connected with the emptying of the uterus. It only varies in degree. It is not connected with the disposition, peculiar to many women, of always having a slow pulse, for tliose women on whom the observations were made possessed the ordinary physiological frequency of the pulse except during the puerperal period, (c) The degree of slowness of the pulse varies greatly. In 3 cases it fell to 35 pulsations in the minute, most frequently it varies between 44 and 60. _ From 21 observations tlie author concludes that food exercises no influence upon it. {d) This condition is more frequently found with multiparse than with primipara), which may be explained