PSYCUIATRIK. 115 CossTA^s.—Account of an Epidemic of Hysterical Demonomania. Ann. Med. Psychol., Oct. 1862. Med. Critic and Psycliolog. J., Jan., The inhiibitauts of Morzines, a small commune in Haute Savoie, live in a state of great poverty and bad hygiene. This epidemic had lasted about four years, and affected as many as ixo out of a population of 2000. Those affected were termed possessed ; they were mostly celibates, chloro-ancEmic, or scrofulous, and suffered from gastralgia or dysme- norrhcea. Everything gave occasion for a paroxysm, especially the e.\prcssion of a doubt that they were possessed. The phenomena were partly hysterical, partly maniacal. The affected retained sufficient con- sciousness not to injure or expose themselves in the most disordered actions. The epidemic was arrested by removing the priest, and inti- midating the people by the presence of soldiers. McLeod, Kenneth, '^.D.—Hydrocyanic Acid in the Treatment of Insanity. Med. Tim. and Gaz., March 14th, 21st. The author has treated more than forty patients with this remedy, during a period exceeding six months, and the results have been highly satisfac- tory. (I) The symptom which has in every case indicated the adminis- tration of the drug is excitement, the manifested excess of cerebral activity which almost invariably accompanies or assists in constituting most forms of acute insanity, however caused or conditioned. This in- crease of manifested energy may consist in an excessive activity of any or all of the representative faculties—gesture, feature, voice, or an intensified action of the brain itself, resulting in a morbid rapidity of ideation. This excessive and purposeless cerebral vigour (hypernoia, as McLeod terms it) may coexist with more or less mental derangement. It may be an utter delirium, in which reason and design are totally wanting, or may exist along with incoherence and delusions of all sorts and degrees, and with one or several active propensities—erotic, destructive, dirty, homicidal, suicidal, &c. It forms the element of acuteness in many different forms of insanity, is the main object of various medicines and plans of remedial treatment—morphia, antimony, warm bath, douche, emetic, purge, &c. Its degree measures alike the gravity of the disease and the success of treatment, the paranoia or faculty disorganization being subsequently removed mainly by tonic, dietetic, and moral means. (II) The effect in every case has been very manifest. It has been almost purely psychical, consisting in a very remarkable, sudden, or gradual cessation of hyper- noetic manifestations, with or without the induction of sleep. "While its repeated exhibition has never failed to have some calmative effect, this has varied according to the circumstances of the case, and has occurred in all degrees, from the gradual, shght, and temporary, to the immediate, absolute, and permanent, (i) In cases of mania and melancholia of great severity and long duration, with organic disease of the brain and body, its calmative action has been more slowly produced, with more difficulty maintained, more evanescent and futile. (2) In recent cases of mania and melancholia, where no grave structural change exists, and the morbid condition has not become so stereotyped by constant repetition of similar changes, its exhibition has been followed by an immediate and sustained