134 llEPOKT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. DouoLAS, A. H.—Suhsternal Aneurism: its Relation to Disease of the Heart. Edin. Med. J., Oct., 186.3. Douglas sums up his paper in the following considerations:—(i) Hy- pertrophy of the heart is probably in all cases a secondary lesion, and is the result of nature's effort to counterbalance a pre-existing hindrance to the circulation. (2) Dilatation of the heart is the natural resolution of local diseases which may, in the first instance, excite hypertrophy. Embarrassment of the circulation, with veuosity of the blood, dropsy, &c., usually arises with this consecutive dilatation. (3) Valvular disease of the heart often coexists with aneurism of the aorta, especially peripheral aneurism; the sigmoid valves most usually are affected, perhaps from contiguity. (4) In such cases the consecutive condition of the heart does not materially differ from that which occurs in cases of simple valvular insufficiency. (^) A diseased condition of the arterial coats often exists in conjunction with hypertrophy of the heart, as is commonly seen in cases of apoplexy with disease of the cerebral arteries. (6) There is reason to think that disease of the arterial coats may exist extensively in the system, though the aorta and the arteries at the base of the brain usually present its most advanced effects. (7) In this state the aorta is apt to undergo dilatation, constituting usually peripheral aneurism. (8) The diseased state of the arteries destroying their elasticity, the circulation is to that extent obstructed, and the left ventricle, under the additional burden, undergoes hypertrophy to compensate the lost tonicity of the arteries. (9) In such circumstances hypertrophy arises in a way analogous to that which occurs in cases of disease of the valves, &c., of the heart. (10) Consequently, hypertrophy of the heart and peripheral aneurism stand associated together as effects of the same diseased condition of the arteries. (11) Consecutive preponderating dilatation may occur in such cases, but the progress to that stage is liable to be hindered by the accidents of hypertrophy, as, for example, of cerebral haemorrhage, which is promoted by the coexisting disease of the arteries. (12) Aneurism of the aorta is often altogether its origin, and has no tendency to involve the heart in associated or consecutive disefise. (13) Such aneurisms are usually saccular, but they may be peripheral, and they suggest the probability of localization of the disease of the coats of the artery. (14) Proximity to the heart in such cases does not affect the organ. Douglas, A. H.—Substernal Aneurism: Clinical Illustrations of its Diagnosis. Edin. Med. J., Nov., 1863. Douglas concludes his paper with the following statement of some of the considerations that arise out of his cases, and which were of value in their diagnosis:—(i) The all but invariable importance of dulness of percussion. (2) The great diagnostic value of a cavernous, intensified character of tiie cardiac second sound, heard over the scat of disease rather than at the sigmoid valves. (3) The rarity and uncertainty of diastolic murmur as a sign of aneurism. (4) The importance of pain as a symptom ; observing its neuralgic form and its conjoined fixed or local and lancinating character. (5) The relation of pain of the shoulder to interference with the phrenic nerve. (6) The occasional vomiting of