90 EEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. vanish in from three to fifty days under local antiphlogistic treatment early applied. Russell.—Cases illustrathifj the injluence of Exhaustion of the Spinal Cord in inducing I'arapleyia. Med. Times and Gnz., Oct. 3i8t. llussell records three cases in which venereal excess produced more or less complete paraplegia. In one, which ended fatally, tlie nerve-tubules of the spinal cord a little above the lumbar enlargement, were in an imperfect atrophic state, and large collections of oil-globules existed in the walls of the minute vessels. Abundance of large granule-cells, with free oil-globules, existed in all parts of the cord, more especially 'in tlie lumbar enlargement. Russell, Reynolds.—CWe* of Paralysis. Lancet, Dec. 12th. In Case i there was paraplegia, which supervened without apparent cause, and disappeared in about six months under the use of strychnia and electricity. Weber, H., M.D. — A Contribution to the Pathology of the Crura Cerebri. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlvi, p. 122, The patient, a male, set. 52, affected with disease of the aortic valves, and rigidity of the arteries, was subjecfto headache and disturbed sleep during the last years of his life. About two months before death he was suddenly seized with paralysis of the right side of the body, producing almost total loss of motor and considerable impairment of sensory power. At the same time the muscles supplied by the third nerve of the left side were also paralysed. The uvula was drawn to the left, the right half of the palate was pendulous. He died of broncho-pneumonia, after slight but perceptible improvement in the phenomena of paralysis. The intellectual faculties were quite unaffected, as also the special senses. There was im- perfect and less persistent paralysis of the muscles of the trunk and of the fifth, of the portio dura of the seventh, and of the ninth cerebral nerves of the same side; the affection of the pneumogastric nerve manifested itself in the more than usually slow and irregular action of the heart during the first days after the seizure, and to the impaired action of this nerve, as well as of the sympathetic, Weber ascribes the disposition to the fatal pulmonary inflammation. The participation of the sympathetic was further evinced by the increased temperature of the paralysed side. At the post-mortem an oblong clot of blood was discovered in the internal half of the left erus cerebri, about o'6 inch long, and 0^25 inch broad, and almost as deep ; it was situated very close to the internal and inferior surface, being separated from it only by a thin layer of nerve substance; its commencement was immediately in front of the pons. Microscopically examined, the clot presented many shrivelled blood-globules, besides many apparently unaltered ones. The surrounding yellowish and tense tissue contained'scarcely any nerve-fibres, but much connective tissue. In the left third nerve many oil-globules, and granules of various size, and also small granular corpuscles, were found, which M'ere absent in the right nerve J the fibres in the left nerve were scanty and broken down. All the other parts of the encephalon were normal. No circus movements were observed in the case, nor in one cited from Andral, such as are produced