365 ABNORMAL PIlESENTATIO?< S. and for any yielding of the uterine walla, tlie fact still remains that the transverse and antero-posterior diameters of the uterus are shorter than the longitudinal diameter of the foetus. Hence it is impossible that the occipito-coccygeal diameter of the foetus can be in relation with these diameters of the uterus; and the longitu- dinal diameter of the foetus must, therefore, correspond more or less closely with the longitudinal diameter of the uterus; or, in other words, one or the other extremity of the occipito-coccygeal diameter—i. e. the head or the breech— must be in relation more or less exact with the inferior segment of the uterus, whilst tlie fundus must be more or less closely occupied by the opposite extremity of the foetus. Assuming this to be true, the author concludes that the terms transverse position and transverse presentatio}is are incorrect, but that all such are cases of co7isiderahle ohli^uity of the foetus. The head in such cases is placed in one of the iliac fossae, and on the corresponding part of the inferior segment of the uterus; the breech occupies the fundus, which is usually inclined laterally in the direction opposite to that which is occupied by the head. If this were not the case, in turning we should have to seek for the feet in one side of the uterus, where, as is well known, they are not to be found. The two cases recorded by the author are interesting. Case I.—A patient, set. 30, who had lost her first two children, the first after a natural labour, the second after turning on account of shoulder presentation, was seen by the author in the ninth month of her third pregnancy. The fundus of the uterus was strongly inclined to the right hypochondrium, where the small angular parts of the child and active movements were felt. The head lay to the left and below, cor- responding to the left iliac fossa. The back was felt directed forwards. A small angular body, which receded as soon as it was touched, could only be felt per vaginam ; no ballottement; the shoulder felt distinctly by passing the finger through the cervix. By applying his right hand upon the head in the left iliac fossa, and his left hand upon the nates in the right hypochondrium, and pressing in opposite directions, the author found he could bring the head over the pelvic brim, and therefore contrived a belt which should act in the same way. This consisted of a pad pressing inwards on the left iliac region, and another pressing inwards on the right hypochondrium, fitted with springs, and attached to a support worn on the back. This succeeded per- fectly, and the head was thus kept constantly over the pelvic brim. Labour set in a fortnight after, and the child was delivered naturally by the head. In the second case there was considerable obliquity of the foetus. The right shoulder in the left position ten days before labour, without being preceded by uterine contractions. The same belt was' applied, and the compression continued for four days. The child's head was brought over the pelvic brim on the second day, and there maintained. Delivery was natural and easy, the head presented in the first position, and the child was born alive. Dr. Pajot, in a memoir " On Presentations of the Trunk in Extreme Contractions of the Pelvis," relates five cases of extreme contraction of the pelvis ('Arch. (Jen. de Mdd.,' August, 1863). Of the first four