136 rvEPORT 0\ 1>BACTICAL MKDICINE. most frequenf. cause of aneurism of the nbdoniinal norta is excessive exertion; sometimes it is referred to a sudden struin of the abdominal muscles or to a blow. The duration, after severe symptoms have appeared, is rarely as much as eighteen months. From the appearance, however, of the first symptoms, seven or eight years may elapse. The diagnosis is most difficult when some tumour presses upon the aorta. In this case, however, the pain is less severe, the pulsation is lessened by placing the patient on his hands and knees so as to remove pressure from the artery, and there are usually other symptoms indicating di-tsorder of some adjacent viscus. Records are given of sixteen cases. Meissneh, H.—Report on Thrombosis and Embolism. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 209. The first part is chiefly occupied by an account of Panum's experi- mental researches, which are published at length in 'Yirchow's Arch.,' XXV, 3—6, pp. 308—338, 433—530, 1862. He finds—(i) That the absence of arterial blood in the coronary arteries of the lieart by no means causes immediate arrest of its movements, since its rhythmical contractions will persist even for hours after the capillaries and veins have been filled with oil and the arteries with wax. As uuder these circum- stances the heart's action can still be temporarily arrested by irritation of the vagi, it follows that Brown-Sequard's view is incorrect, which supposes that this efi^ect is produced by contraction of the coronary arteries, in con- sequence of stimulation of their vaso-motor nerves. (2) That when sudden death is produced by embolism of the pulmonai-y artery, but little blood is found in the left heart, and the quantity is smaller in proportion as the death has been complete and sudden. A small quantity of blood is, however, always found in the ventricle. (3) ^Yhen death ensues froni embolism of the pulmonary artery, the heart, as a rule, continues to pulsate after all signs of life on the part of the cerebi'o-spinal nervous system have quite ceased. (4) The arrest of the heart is produced by over-distension of the right cavitieswith venous blood ; occurs consequently in diastole, and usually soon after the cessation of the respiratory move- ments. (5, 6) Sudden death depending on embolism of the pulmonary artery is produced by the arrest of the flow of arterial blood to the brain and medulla oblongata. If the arrest is complete, irritative phenomena are slight and soon cease, but they are more considerable and last longer when the arterial current is less completely arrested. Pauum states that when death occurs rapidly, from perfect obstruction of the pulmonary artery, the first and most constant phenomenon is the extreme pallor of all the visible parts of the body and anaemia of the white substance of the brain. There then ensued immediately constant tetanic extension of the limbs, involuntary evacuation of the urine and faeces, very deep con- vulsive respiratory movements, and in one to three minutes death. When the deprivation of blood ia less complete, signs of irritation of the sympathetic nerve ensue, the eyeballs project, the lids are wide open, and the pupil dilated. These symptoms seem to result from altered nutrition of the nervous centres. (7, 8) Complete embolism of the cerebral arteries produces death just in the same way as that of the pulmonary artery. Partial cerebral cmbolia is apt to be more fatal than