82 BJCPOUT ON PllACTICAL MKDIClNJi. parts are abruptly separated from (lie siirroundinp, and are alike in the cord and in the brain. The original tissue is exactly replaced by the new formed connective tissue, which causes atrophy of the nerve elemenls. No diminution or increase of the orip;inal size takes place. The clinical phenomena corresponding to the morbid changes have nothing character- istic. The second form mostly affects the posterior columns, and is found pretty constantly in the disorder termed Ataxic progressive, as proved by numerous autopsies. Besides the connective tissue, which is present in large amount, there is usually a shrinking and wasting of the posterior columns, but no growth of interstitial nuclei. Hence it is doubtful whether the change consists in a new formation of fibroid tissue, or merely in an atrophic wasting of the contents of the nerve-fibres. Together with the fibroid tissue, numerous corpora amylacea are metwitii, and there is often a thickening and fatty degeneration of the walls of the vessels. The third form has been specially described by Tiirk; it occurred together with foci of disease in the brain, from whence degene- rated tracts could be traced in a descending direction through the spinal cord. In the altered parts there was found a fine-fibred, reticular tissue, ■with scanty, roundish nuclei imbedded in it, not presenting the appear- ance of active growth. The nerve-fibres were atrophied, there were no corpora amylacea, the outer coat of the vessels was scarcely thickened or altered. This form is rare. Westphal, 0.— On Tales Borsalis and Progressive General Paralysis. Allg. Ztschr. f. Psychiat., xx, p. i, 1863. From careful examination of recent cases, Westphal finds that in a certain number dragging pains, in the legs chiefly, had preceeded or accompanied the commencement of paralysis and mental weakness ; and that in these, at the same time, the power of standing and walking, as far as it still existed, became materially less when the eyes were closed, or was even totally lost, the patients, when they made the attempt, falling down on the spot. From his cases the author comes to the following conclusions:— (i) There is an affection of the spinal cord (gray degeneration of the posterior columns), which anatomically is quite the same as that which exists in tabes dorsalis, and which, in its subsequent course, leads to dis- order of vision. (2) In general, this resembles the progressive general paralysis of the insane, both in the kind of delirium and of the paralytic symptoms, as also in the emaciation. (3) It is, however, distinguished from the latter by the circumstance that the patients, when they close their eyes, are unable to stand or walk without tumbling down, and that the disorder of articulation belonging to general paralysis is quite want- ing. (4) The palsy of the bladder and of the extremities precedes for a long time the mental derangement (contrary to what occurs in the pro- gressive paralysis of the insane). (5) No disease of the cerebral substance analogous to the gray degeneration of the columns of the spinal cord was discoverable. The latter extends pretty uniformly over the whole extent of the posterior columns as far as the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it only occurred in patches. The nature of the cerebral disease is unknown, but appears to be accompanied by hydrocephalus internus.