GLAUCOMA. 257 healtliy eyes that obscuration of the visual field occurred as soon as the pressure caused arterial pulsation. The obscurations are often tran- sitory iu glaucoma; so is likewise the arterial pulsation. It thus appears that the obscurations depend at first on the condition of the circula- tion, and are not directly caused by pressure on the optic nerve and retina. . The coloured ring seen around the flame of a candle has been attri- buted to the augmented pressure on the retina. The author shows that it is a physical phenomenon, caused by the peripheral portion of the media. The reason for the frequent occurrence of this symptom in glaucoma is partly because the pupil is much dilated, partly, perhaps, from some change in the lens, which causes greater diffraction. Contraction of the visual field occurs in every form of glaucoma, though it is not in glaucoma simplex one of the earliest symptoms. Hardness of the globe is often followed by distinct excavation _ of the papilla and displacement of the vessels, before any contraction can be found. Whether the field of vision is intact may easily be discovered, if the patient closes one eye and looks with the other at that of the observer, the left eye of the patient being directed to the right one of the observer, and conversely. The surgeon now moves his hand, or some object, midway between his own and the patient's eye, so as to convince himself whether the latter sees it whenever he himself can. The acuteness of excentrical vision may be tested in the same way to some extent, by comparing the power of counting fingers, or of recog- nising various objects. It is not uncommonly found that in some parts of the \isual field the power of recognition is diminished when no distinct contraction has occurred. As to the operation, Bonders considers the excision of the piece up to the very periphery of the iris of greater importance than its size. He mentions Mr. Bowman's method of seizing the iris at one end of the incision, incising it, tearing it away up to the other end, and then cutting it off. Comparing his own results with those of von Grafe, he finds that the operation is invariably rewarded with success wherever the results, according to the latter, are favorable. He has, however, obtained much better results, than von Grafe's experience had led him to expect, in cases of glaucoma with chronic ophthalmia (von Grafe's chronic glaucoma), and in those of glaucoma simplex (von Grr'afe's amaurosis with excavation of the optic nerve). He is perfectly con- ^ inced that in glaucoma simplex, not only arrest of the disease, but also a gradual improvement in vision, and in many cases expansion of the contracted visual field, may be expected from a well-performed iridectomy. The essential indication is the increased tension; where excavation of the papilla and impaired vision are attended by increased hardness of the globe, benefit is to be expected from iridectomy. A. von Grafe has published cm accotint of his later experience of glaucoma and the action of iridectomy ('Arch, f Ophth.,' viii, 2, p. 242). As to the time when the operation should be performed in acute cases, he still holds to the same opinion that, as the rule, the operation should he performed as early as possible in acute fflaucoma, altliough iu some cases a little delay may be allowable. The condition of tlie vision 17