DUOPSY OF Tini; OVUM. 369 diameter of three and on tlie other of two inches. The diagnosis of ascites in the foetus before labout is difficult, and very liable to be mistaken for dropsy of the amnion. The second case was very similar. Enormous distension of the foetal bladder was here the cause of the ob- struction. In the third case there was immense distension of the uterus from dropsy of the amnion. The whole appearance of the abdomen closely simulated ovarian dropsy complicated with pregnancy, especially from there being a slight oblique depression between the middle and lower third of the tumour. Premature labour was induced at the seventh month by puncturing the membranes, upon which about three gallons^ of fluid escaped. When labour fairly set in, another bag, apparently of membranes, presented, and obstructed delivery ; this proved to be a large fluctuating tumour, situated on the neck, tongue, and face of the foetus, after puncture of which labour terminated naturally. The mothers in all three cases did well. Hirsch (' Wiirzb. Medic. Zeitschr.,' Band iii. Heft 6) records the fol- lowing case:—The first symptoms of pregnancy appeared in a woman £et. 38, in March, 1861. In July the uterus could be felt between the um- bilicus and the pubes. A thin serous fluid exuded from the breasts. Aa labour did not come on in December, the author was summoned to examine the patient, and found her at the full term of a normal preg- nancy. Within the uterus, which extended to the epigastrium, the fcetal movements could be distinctly felt. A progressive increase of the circumference of the abdomen occurred during the next five months, without the patient's health being affected. At the end of May, after a supposed pregnancy of fifteen months, feeble labour pains came on, with draining away of the liquor amnii, eftecting, after three days, the complete dilatation of the os uteri. Unsuccessful attempts were now made to extract the head by the forceps. The author, now consulted, found the head movable at the entrance of the pelvis, with an opening in the skull half an inch in diameter. Proceeding to turn by the feet, the hand was ai-rested by a large, round, fluctuating tumour. The child was delivered by traction on the head, with the fingers introduced into the cavity of the skull; it weighed eight pounds, and was fully developed. In detaching the placenta the tumour was found attached to the fundus of the uterus. The patient died ex- hausted, a few hours after delivery. No post-mortem was permitted ; but the tumour, which after death partly protruded through the vulva, was found to be as large as a man's head. Its external segment pre- sented a smooth, firm, serous surface ; and on cutting through its fleshy wall about half an inch thick, a large quantity of pale, serous fluid escaped, containing coagula, and a few shrunken, fleshy parts, resembling the rudiments of an embryo. The author supposes that, after tiie degeneration of the first impregnated ovum, and partial inter- growth of this with the substance of the uterus, a second conception had occurred, and the further development of tlie mole advanced with the normal development of the second impregnated ovum. 21