REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, KTC. 880 Wlieu the arm has not prolapsed so far, the attempt should be made to return it on to the chest of the child, and then to push the child onward in the direction of the head, depressing the breech externally if podalic version be intended; but since the greatest value of this mode is the capability of version long before it can be performed by any other method, extreme cases will seldom occur to a vigilant practitioner. Cephalic version, which adds to that of Wigand's the more extended use of the iuner hand, and which the author has found most useful in some cases of transverse presentation, is thus effected:—With the left hand in the vagina, as in podalic version, and the right over the uterus, the shoulder is first pushed on in the direction of the feet by the inner hand, while at the same time pressure is made on the cephalic end of the_ child, which will bring the head down close to the os, and allow it to be secured between the two hands. The head is then placed directly over the os, and any tendency to face presentation at once rectified, while the external hand is retained on the head till the uterus has moulded itself to the form of the head and shoulders. The ease with which cephalic version was effected in this way in one of the cases related by the author was such that only half a minute was required; but if there be any difficulty in this, podalic version is still feasible. All that is required is to place the hand on the opposite end of the child and depress it, pushing the head and shoulder from within, while the fingers in the os are ready to hook down a knee or foot; and, as a rule, in neck and transverse presentations, where all the conditions are favorable, cephalic version should first be attempted, and, failing this, podalic version may be effected. The advantages of early turning, whether for a cephalic or podalic presentation, in cases of neck, shoulder, and transverse presentations, will be manifest, while it is not less valuable in cases of convulsions ante partum. Here the introduction of the hand into the uterus is frequently attended with much danger, while by this method we shall Ije able to take advantage of the earliest dilatation of the os, and assist it by gentle traction upon the leg, which will thus act as a dilator. In placenta prtevia the easy application of this mode of turning is shown by the author in a series of eight cases. It is especially valuable in those cases where, with great haemorrhage, the os is yet so little dilated that not more than one or two fingers can be introduced. Here the author's practice is to rupture the membranes when the foot arrives at the os, and then, without any force to draw the foot and leg through. By exerting gentle traction tvitli merely the weight of the arm, the leg is retained and forms a good plug, while valuable time is gained to rally the patient, for the os to dilate, and the pains to come on. Except in cases of internal haemorrhage, the author waits for the natural efforts to deliver, and has never seen any haemorrhage, internal or external, after the leg has been brought down. Should the placenta lie more or less completely over the os, the membranes will generally be found by detaching the placenta on that side which is least thickened; otherwise the method recommended by Dr. Barnes, of detaching the placenta all round till the membranes are reached, is the best. The advantage of turning under chloroform is very marked, but at least half the cases rela-ted by the author were performed