81 NERVOUS SYSTEM. and ethers and phosphorus in suitable doses figure most conspicuously. He discountenances the use of sedatives, as opium or belladonna. Cameker.— On Chronic Spinal Meningitis and Mijelitis. Wurtemb. Corr. Bl., xxxii, 1S62. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 167. Both diseases often"occur together, but one or other predominates. In chronic meningitis there are pains, at first extending round the body, ordi- narily taken for rheumatic, with a feeling of tension and stiffness in the neck and pains in the back. The stiffness and pains are usually not very troublesome, and therefore are often not mentioned by the patient; the pains are sometimes only felt on pressure, not during movements, and do not occur spontaneously. It is only when there is caries of the vertebrae that they attain to great severity. Next ensue morbid sensations in the lower limbs, which soon also become weary and weak, and their tempera- ture falls. Paralysis soon follows, first appearing as constipation. The bladder becomes involved sooner or later, sometimes first in its sphincter, sometimes in its detrusor. The principal symptom of meningitis is, however, the palsy of the limbs, which constantly extends from below upwards, and even in the case where the inflammation has its seat in the upper part of the cord always affects the legs more severely than the arms. As the paralysis increases, more or less marked twitchings occur in the palsied muscles. The skin loses more and more its sensibility, but becomes at intervals the seat of very painful hypersesthesias. Bed-sores form early, occasioned partly by the ansesthesia, partly by the unaltered position and the weakening of the skin, produced by the involuntary dis- charge of the excretions. The course of the disease is steadily progressive, and almost inevitably fatal. The acute form of the disease is distinguished from the chronic by its sudden setting in with pyrexia, by the severe dorsal pains, and the rapid progress of the symptoms. Chronic myelitis is cha- racterised by the irregularity of its course, the alternations of improvement and deterioration ; by its ordinary seat in the upper parts of the cord, and its extending downwards ; by the greater amount of paralysis of the upper compared with that of the lower extremities ; by the contractions of the paralysed limbs, which in meningitis usually lie flaccid and extended; by the incomplete palsy of the muscles of respiration, and the difficulty of breathing and palpitation of the heart occasioned thereby. Leyden.—On Gray Degeneration of the Spinal Cord. Deutsche Klinik, 13, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. 119, p. 167. Leyden describes three varieties of this affection. The first appears in cii'cumscribed patches. The second attacks the whole extent of separate columns of the cord. The third is secondary. Cruveilhier described the first originally, and it was afterwards briefly noticed by Rokitansky. It is characterised by grayish-red patches of translucent substance, with numerous vascular ramifications. These consist of a fibrous connective tissue, with many small round cells, which are partly grouped together and partly disposed around the vessels. The latter are surrounded by an extraordinarily thick outer coat, containing numerous young nuclei and much fat. The nervous tissue is almost quite destroyed, only a few fibres empty of contents, and a few ganglion-cells remain. The diseased 6