REPOUT ON SUUGERY. 826 at length, at the end of the fifth month, she became anxious, and I was consulted. It is now two and a half months since I began the treat- ment ; much has been gained, and I believe I shall be successful, but the case is not yet cured." She ultimately recovered after six months' treatment. Indications of treatment.—Our object is, not only to restore the natural mobility, but also, where that is impracticable, to restore the form alone by giving the limb a better direction; the treatment must vary accordingly. One of the greatest difficulties in practice is to de- termine when to commence exercising the joint. " There has been arthritis; the inflammation has simply passed through the acute stage, and after a month or six weeks apj^ears to be no longer present, or the patient being of unhealthy constitution, or the case badly treated, it has first become chronic, and then ultimately disappeared. How can we determine that the disease has really retrograded to that degree that we can commence the restoration of motion, without running danger of re-exciting violent inflammation, of which suppuration and death may be the necessary results; and yet time presses. If interference may induce such serious consequences, inaction still more certainly con- demns the patient to a condition in which even the most ordinary actions may be difiicult or impossible. In 1838, I filled the office of M. Baffos, at the hospital for sick children. There were in the wards many cases of hip disease, among others a child of seven years, in other respects in good health, and in whom I excited no pain whatever by pressing freely on diflferent parts of the hip; yet there was extreme pain as soon as I tried any movement. "Was this a case of stifi" joint, or did the inflammation still continue ? Both cause, as you know, atrocious pain under such circumstances, yet I required a diagnosis. I hunted-up authors, I found no information. I applied to the most de- servedly renowned surgeons, my question appeared to surprise them; none of them had thought of this difficulty. Left to myself, I pressed on various parts of the joint, and most carefully on those said to be nearest to the capsular ligament. Many theorists have asserted that, by pressing in front in the hollow of the groin, you are almost on the head of the femur. This region was insensible in my case. Others, that by pressing the trochanter major against the ilium, you pressed the articular surfaces against one another, and that this would, in case in- flammation was present, excite pain. I tried it, there was no pain. I then commenced vcith moderate movements. After two or three days it became very difficult to eff"ect them ; I continued, however, but soon it became necessary to stop altogether. The articular inflammation had recommenced; it became intense, the joint suppurated, dislocation ensued, and the little patient died. Convinced that I had not known the proper method of examining the joint, I set myself to study, and have by perseverance acquired a better knowledge of how to test the condition of the parts. For hip disease, in particular, there is one point which you must remember ; pressure over an extended surface would teach you nothing; but press forcibly, with the fingers curved like a hook, behind the trochanter, and if there remains any inflamma- tion, you will be certain to excite pain. The same is the case with the