REPOKT OX SUllGERY. 302 twice a day.' I afterwards received this letter respecting the case from his surgeon:—'My dear Sii-,—Young B— is and has been quite well; ho is now in London. Ho was cured by the end of last November (one month from my visit). A slight gleet remained for months after; I did nothing for it but cold baths, &c.; The application, I painted tho whole penis well with, was the compound tincture of iodine, made stronger by ten or twelve grains of iodine to each ounce. " It touched him up well," I can tell you; but 1 don't think the friends ever had any idea what wo considered the cause of his illness.' Here is a case, then, which I have placed upon the simple anatomy of the parts—viz., that the same nerves which supply the skin supply the mucous membrane and the muscular apparatus of the jjenis, and I have done so for the purpose of displaying its utility in practice. Not long after I had visited this young patient, a gentleman called upon me. When he came into my room, he said, ' You have performed a miracle, sir!' ' A miracle!' I said ; ' you really take me by surprise. "What do you mean ?' ' Why, you have cured young B—; he is quite well, and at school.. Dr. — said he would surely die from fits, resulting from some constitxitional influences inherited from his father and mother.' I assured him that what I had done was no marvel; that I had simply acted upon common sense, experience, and physiological deduction. With that assurance and explanation he seemed to be satisfied, and so was I." J. r. H. Albers, essay on spermatoiThcea (pp. 152, Bonn). J. L. Milton, on spermatorrhoea and its complications (6th ed.). M. Mallez, on the perineal douche (' Graz. d. Hop.,' 1861, p. 607). Impotence.—B. Schulz considers the definition, that impotence is entire or partial loss of the power of erection in consequence of defective innervation, too narrow (' Wien. Med. AYochenschr.,' and ' Prag. Yiertelj.,' 1862, i, Anal. 61). He treats the physiological sexual act as composed of three principal parts: (1) The sensual excitement or desire. (2) Erection, a reflex efi"ect of desii-e. (3) Voluptuous ejaculation, whilst the penis is erect. At the very commencement of the act, the sensual excitement is often such as to prevent all further functional activity — generally, indeed, from its being present to an excessive degree. Teelings of anxiety and shame soon appear, and many individuals then imagine themselves really impotent; mental depression and deterioration of health are the consequence. Such cases of psychical or hypochon- driacal impotence are not to be treated by electricity ; nil that is necessary is to give the patient confidence. :T-,n:ir'iyp > .*^t= In respect to the second point, he admits, in accordance with the usual view, that there is a close relation of tho medulla oblongata to tlie genitals, and that the former may be excited cither by the will, or by peripheral nervous irritation, a fact which will explain how erection may be excited either by mental impressions or by irritation of the glans or fossa naviculans, by fulness of the bladder, of the rectum, or even of the seminal vesicles. Yet though an erection is always the effect of reflex action, there must algo be some other conditions, such as