137 CIUCULATOllY SYSTEM. paitinl piilmonarv, and, wlien certain large branches alone are aflected, will produce special symptoms according to the part of the bram winch is rendered anEcmic. "(9) The increase of the original embolon by addi- tional deposits may cause death days and weeks after its first formation. (10) When lobular foci of suppuration form in the lungs, it seems very probable that coagula may be generated in the pulmonary veins, which then pass into the systemic circnlation and cause arterial obstruction. (11) When unirritating substances, as wax-globules, injected into the vessels, have caused obstruction, they become capsulated by the thick- ening of the wall of the vessel and the formation of a connective-tissue enveTope, which is thicker around the smaller (proportionally) than around the larger. (12) Virchow finds that the dissolute blood-crasis produced by the injection of putrid material into the blood disposes, certainly, to sanguiueo-serous infiltration of the lungs, as well as of other parts, but even when combined with embolia of the pulmonary arteries has no influence in generating the so-named lobular (pysemic) processes or infarctn. (13) Globules of quicksilver, arrested in the pulmonary vessels, produce, as Cruveilhier found, inflammatory foci around them ; but this does not depend on mechanical obstruction of the vessel, but on a specific chemical irritation of tlie surrounding pulmonary tissue. (14) Plugs consisting of nitrogenous substances undergoing decomposi- tion provoke—in the vicinity of those spots of the pulmonary artery where they stick—inflammations, which may spread over a considerable extent of the lung, but which st.irt from the spot where the plug is ."situated. The alteration of tissue is therefore greatest near to the plug, and may end with limited gangrene, the inflammation receding from the surrounding area. The inflammatory irritation is caused by the products of decomposition of the putrefying plug. (15, 16) Perfectly fresh coagula of healthy blood may, in the same individual from whom the coagulum proceeds, excite exquisite lobular processes or infarcta in the lungs, when embolism of the pulmonary artery occurs. It is, however, only in peculiar instances that this takes place, most of the coagula dissolving without producing any alterations in the parts adjacent to them. (17) An altered blood-crasis, however induced, seems to have no influence in determining the formation of infarcta. (18) Neither does it appear that the diff'erent quality of the emboli is the efi'ective cause, as some fragments of the same coagulum will produce infarcta, while the majority, which are of quite similar composition, give rise to none. (19) It must therefore be assumed that there is a peculiar predisposition in diff'erent parts of the lung to be affected in this way by the coagula which become impacted in them. (20) Pus, even when left a long while 4 in contact with the blood contained in the veins of the living body, n produces no coagulation. (21) Besides the larger infarcta, there were constantly found, after embolism of the pulmonary artery with recent (coagula, very numerous, small, hyaline, or yellowish-white fibroid nodules, which Virchow regards as developed on minute embolic coagula. Numerous transition forms were observed between these and the lobular infarcta. (22) It is not improbable that miliary tubercles may be pro- duced in the same way by embolism of the smallest branches of the 1 pulmonary artery. In injections of tuberculous human lungs, enormous