EESPIEATOUY SYSTEM. 159 in other parts of England. As to the place of residence, 36 per cent, had lived in London during the greater part of their lives, 51 per cent, in the country, and 7 per cent, in various places ; but during the last three years ^3 per cent, had lived in London and 40 per cent, in the country. As to edu- cation, all with the exception of 8-8 per cent, could both read and write, and only I4'3 per cent, had been badly nourished at any period of their lives. As to the parents of the patients, it appeared that the average age of the patients being 28-8 years, 54 per cent, had lost the father, 46 per cent, the mother, and 28 per cent, had lost both parents. In 25 per cent, both parents were living. The average duration of life of the parents who had died was—mothers 48-2 years, fathers ^52-9 years. In the period preceding the patients' birth, 18 per cent, of one of the parents had had feeble health, and of that number the greater proportion, viz., II per cent., were the mothers. Both parents were similarly affected in 2 per cent. When the whole course of life was included, the propor- tion increased, so that it became 34 per cent., and still the mothers ex- hibited a preponderance of 8 per cent, over the fathers. Both parents were feeble in 4-3 per cent. In 23 per cent, one or both of the parents had been generally unsteady, mostly the males. Of the parents, one or both had died from consumption in 21 per cent.; brothers or sisters in 33'3 per cent.; parents, brothers, or sisters, in 36 per cent.; grand-parents in 2'8 per cent. In every instance the mortality amongst the relatives of females was greater than in those of males; and iu reference to the im- mediate relatives—parents, brothers, and sisters combined—the excess was 19 per cent. The proportion of presumed scrofulous disease, with the exception of the continuance of enlarged glands in 5 per cent, of the cases, was utterly insignificant. In only 8 per cent, were there any evidences known of the existence of that class of diseases. Rheumatism and asthma were the most prevalent diseases (22'6 and 13*3 per cent.); liver diseases and gout were next in order of frequency (9*2 and 7*2 per cent.) ; ague and typhus fever had each occurred in nearly 5 per cent, of the cases, insanity in 4'3, and cancer in 3*2 per cent., while brain and kidney affections and diabetes had been still less frequent. In only six instances, or '6 per cent., had the parents been related before their mar- riage. At the time of the patients' birth 81 per cent, of the parents were between the ages of 20 and 40. Only 2'8 per cent, were under 20 years, and in about 2 per cent, the age was from 55 to 70 years. As to the number of children in each family, it appeared that families with 6, 7, and 8 children |were the most frequent; in only 3 per cent, was there but I child, and families with 3 children or less formed only 15-4 per cent, of the whole. Families having from 5 to 10 children constituted 56 per cent, of the whole. The average number of children to a family was 7-5. At the time of the inquiry 40 per cent, of the parents' children had died. As to the order of birth of the patients among the parents' children, 20 per cent, of the whole were first children, and from that there was an unbroken line of diminution to those who were the tenth children. Those who were first, second, and third children constituted one half of the whole number. The following statements regard the patients only. As to the colour of the hair, it was found that the females