MATEUIA CHIRURGICA AND MEDICAL TREATMENT, 179 apparatus, appliances, &c. (London, 1863, 53 plates, and explanatory text). J. Leiter, atlas and priced catalogue of surgical mstruments, &c. (Wien, "W. Braumiiller). . -r,- , i r The elastic ligature.—Kt the suggestion of Trousseau, A. liichard has experimented with india-rubber threads. He describes the effects pro- duced on a tumour by strangling its base with such a ligature : on the first day there is no change; during the second and third the tem- perature gradually sinks, the skin becomes a little flabby, and its colour somewhat duller. These symptoms become more distinct on the follow- ing days: the mass diminishes, becomes wrinkled and dry ; it separates from the fifteenth to the twenty-fifth day, without interference, without pain, without inflammation, without the patient perceiving it. Such ia the course of dry gangrene. During all this time the furrow, which separates the dead from the living, remains hidden by the ligature ; it is much as if the wound were subcutaneous. Eeparation is almost complete when the tumour falls. He considers the process innocent, painful only just after its application, and of easy use ; it seems to him likely to replace all methods of ligature previously known. (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 418.) MATEEIA CHIBUEGIOA AND THE MEDICAL TEEATMENT OP SUEGICAL CASES. Disinfectants.—A. ChevaUier has published a special treatise on this subject (Paris, P. Asselin). 0. Eeveil ('Arch. Gen.,' 1863, i, 5, 1,52) is convinced that the sulphate of lime in bones, when transformed into sulphuret of calcium during decomposition, is the principal, if not the only, cause of the fetid odour emitted in cases of necrosis. He states that in decomposition the ternary compounds—the fats, sugars, and starches—mostly furnish acid products, which are very little odorous ; the nitrogenous bodies produce alkaline ammoniacal compounds, which are extremely offensive. He is of opinion that, to keep a wound in good condition, its secretion must be retained slightly alkaline, or at all events neutral. Putrefaction and fermentation are closely allied; all agents which impede fermentation equally impede putrefaction. Certain conditions must coincide before fermentation can take place ; such are (i) a fer- ment; (2) a fermentable matter; (3) water ; (4) air; (5) a certain tem- perature. The products of fermentation vary in accordance with the nature of the ferment and that of the fermentable matters, and also in accordance with variations in the external c onditions, in the air, water, and temperature. Thus sugar, which may b e taken as a type of ferment- able matter, may, according to the conditions, undergo the alcoholic, the lactic, the butyric, or the viscous fermentation. In the animal economy the fermentable material is almost always the same, and the moisture and temperature invariable; but the ferments and the access of air are variable; and thus it may be imagined how different may be the products of putrefaction. It would be premature to attempt to trace the very different and numerous reactions which in their totality constitute putrefaction; the products of these decompositions are