OEGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. 433 three years old, who spilt a quantity of it on his clothes, and went about for several hom-s, surrounded, of course, by an atmosphere saturated with the poison. In each case the only effect observed for some time was a sensation of drowsiness; gradually, however, the face became flushed, the expression stupid, and the gait unsteady. The mind re- mained perfectly clear, otherwise the symptoms resembled those of alco- holic intoxication. About four hours after the action of the nitro- beuzole commenced, the drowsiness suddenly terminated in coma, as in a fit of apoplexy, and this occurred, in each case, about five hours before death. Nitro-benzole was detected by chemical examination in the brain and stomach. These effects were so remarkable, that Dr. Letheby proceeded to make some experiments upon animals. He gave to dogs and cats from thirty to sixty di'ops of nitro-benzole, from which every trace of aniline had been removed by careful washing with dilute sulphuric acid and water. The effects produced were of two kinds. In one class of cases they resembled those observed in the human subject. The animal was seized with giddiness, and with weakness, at first of the hinder extremi- ties, but afterwards of the fore legs and of the head and neck. The muscles were occasionally fixed in spasm, and there were periods of violent struggling, alternating with exhaustion and quiescence. The pupils were dilated, the action of the heart was tumultuous and irregu- lar, and the breathing was somewhat difficult. Suddenly, and often at the close of a fit, the animal became comatose. The conjunctiva was then insensible, and the breathing slow and somewhat stertorous, and death occurred in a period which varied from twenty-five minutes to twelve hours after the poison was administered. In another most extraordinary series of cases no effect beyond the discomfort from the taste of the substance was observed during some hours, or even days. The animal would take its food well, and went about as usual. Suddenly, at the expiration of an interval of nineteen to seventy-two hours, it began to look distressed ; it had an attack of vomiting, and this was followed by an epileptic fit. After the convul- sions had ceased, it was usually found that the hinder extremities were weak, or even paralysed. The further progress of the symptoms resembled that already described, except that it was much slower, con- sciousness being often retained for days after paralysis had occurred. They terminated in some cases in death, apparently fi-om exhaustion, in other cases in recovery, with a gradual restoration of the muscular power. The time that elapsed before death, in three of these experi- ments, was from four to nine days. Nitro-benzole appears to be converted into aniline in the interior of the body by a process of reduction. In the more rapid cases, where death took place within twenty-four hours, the odour of nitro-benzole was clearly perceptible in the stomach, brain, and lungs ; but there Avas also unmistakable evidence of the existence of aniline in the organs of the body. In the slower cases the smell of the poison had disappeared ; generally aniline was detected in the brain and in the urine, and some- times in the stomach and liver; occasionally, however, no poison whs found. It is possible that this conversion of nitro-benzole into aniline 28