300 RKl'OllT ON SUllGEllY, cases of hsomorrlioids. Tliese morbid conditions appear to have a mutual reaction; the origin of the spermatorrhoea is generally to be found in earlier mastvirbatiou. B. Scliulz does not consider the frequent occurrence of emissions to be a morbid condition, uiiloas they are unaccompanied by libidinous dreams or unattended by erections, because the laws of reflex action are the same during sleep and during waking. ('Wicn. Med. Wochenschr.,' and ' Schmidt's Jalirb.,'vol. 114, p. 351). The induc- tion current is of no use in spermatorrhoea; the constant current, on the other hand, is very beneficial when it is transmitted along the ver- tebral column for one or two minutes, and repeated three or four times a week. Twenty to thirty Daniell's elements, of medium size, should be used ; the positive pole should be applied to about the fifth dorsal vertebra, and the negative to the sacrum or perinteum. This would appear to confirm the statement that the constant cui-rent diminishes the irritability of the spinal cord, and thus renders it less prone to the production of over-hasty reflex motions. Mr. Hilton remarks (' Lancet,' 1863, ii, 123) that "regarding onanism and its treatment, surgeons are often consulted, and it is a very import- ant matter. It is a habit very difficult to contend with in practice. I know of no way to prevent onanism except by freely blistering the penis, in order to make it raw and so sore that it cannot be touched without pain. This plan is sure to cure onanism. I have adopted this plan of treatment during more than twenty years. Gentlemen have come to me and said, ' I have for many years siifteredfrom this abomin- able,'disgusting habit, and I have tried to cure myself of it, but I cannot; for my morbid inclination overcomes my disgust when awake, and I thinlc when asleep I am sometimes pursuing it. Can you offer any sugges- tion ? ' I have said,' Paint this strong solution of iodine over the whole of the skin of the penis every night, and if that does not make the organ too sore for you to touch it, then apply in the sain£ way a strong blister- ing fluid to the penis.' Tiie result of my experience in practice has been that in almost every instance the continuance of the habit has been thus entirely prevented. Here is a case in relation to this subject—the notes are from the patient's surgeon :—' "W. B—, vet. 15, is one of eight children, all of delicate constitution, and himself prone to convulsions in his infancy. After repeated exposure to cold and wet, he called upon his surgeon September 4tli, i860, complaining of pain in the sacrum and left hip and thigh. He was relieved by purgatives and salines, I saw him on September iith, witli both knees flexed, and complaining of great pain in the lower part of the sacrum, with so much tenderness as to be unable to sit down. The left thigh and leg were very tender, and there was excessive tenderness of the surface all down the spine. Xo local indications of heat in any of these parts; bowels constipated ; tongue coated. He was ordered cathartic pills, colchicum, and an aperient mixture, in strong doses ; croton oil and tartar emetic liniment to be rubbed along the dorsal and lumbar portion of the spine. Within a week there was great pain along the cervical portion of the spine, ex- tending to the left arm. Says the motion of tiie slioulder is very pam- ful; elbow free; left hand closed tightly, and any touch cither of the