IIESISTAXCE OJ? THE LIGAMENTS. at the Cliuie, who, during an epileptic attack iu the coui-so of the previous night, had had a recurrence of a dislocation of the shoulder. It liad been dislocated for the first time a year previously in Australia, by a iall, and he had since had a couple of recurrences (he varied in his account of the number). The position of the arm vras the usual cha- racteristic one; the displaced head was close to the coracoid process, which, as ho was thin, could be readily felt. As reduction was expected to be very easy, owing to tlie frequent recurrences, it was attempted by the method of Mothe-Rust, and without the use of chloroform. The failure of tlie traction thus exercised was referred to the awkward move- ments of the patient; he was accordingly fully narcotised, and the attempt repeated. Another failure was the result, although the process was carried out by well-skilled assistants ; indeed it was now found that even great force was insufficient to firmly fix the scapula, and that the arm could be scarcely at all raised without changing the position of that bone. Thus it appeared clear that the humerus was held with uncommon firmness by the slit in the capsule, and probable that the greater tension of the latter was owing to the head of the humerus having passed to a greater distance from the glenoid cavity than on former occasions. After repeated but vain attempts, a trial was made with Astley Cooper's method, and as this also was unsuccessful, the patient being still under the influence of chloroform, the arm was ex- tended horizontally by the apparatus of Schneider-Mennel. Tet the head did not move in the least from its place, although the force was increased by means of the apparatus to such a degree that I believed I coidd not go further without danger of rupturing the muscles or vessels. " It was now evident that tliis enormous difficulty was owing to some peculiarity, for on previous occasions the same luxation had been reduced without any extraordinary trouble. At all events nothing was to be gained from force, and from the ordinary methods. We evidently had to try some other plan, or send the patient home with the disloca- tion unreduced. Fortunately we were able, in this case, to approxi- mately determine the position of the rupture in the capsule. His friends had, frequently and distinctly observed that iu his epileptic attacks the arms moved in such a way as to drive the elbows violently backwards. Now, since the head of the humerus had slipped out of tlie capsule in such a movement, it was probable that the aperture was placed more on the anterior than under side of the capsule. Moreover, tlie outer lip of this slit must now be so closely stretched over the neck of the dislocated humerus, that traction could not release the head from ats position. It became clear to me that reposition would become more easy if the slit in the capsule could be made to gape, so that the head could glide through it. " To effect this, I let the now conscious patient get on the operatino- table, and place himself in a horizontal position; I now placed my rio-ht forcarni under the back of his arm, just below his shoulder, as a fulcrum and let an assistant press the patient's arm powerfully backwards. If my calculation as to the position of the rupture in the capsule and the manner in which it caused the difficulty, were correct, the outer lip of