408 UEPORT ox TOXICOLOGY AND MATEEIA MEDICA. tlian twice as great as in the healthy secretion. Crystals of nitre were obtained on evaporating the urine, and the presence of nitric acid wa& also proved by chemical tests. Carbonate of soda.—Dr. Haines (' Pliarm. Journ.,' vol. v, p. 26) gives the results of his investigations on the nature of a crystalline substance found near Aden, which contains 51 per cent, of neutral carbonate of soda. It is found along the coast for an extent of, perhaps, ten miles ; and its quantity appears to be practically unlimited. It usually occurs iu hollows beyond high-water mark, to which sea-water has had access by percolation. Ilitherto it has only been used to increase the pungency of snuff. It is probably produced by the action of chloride of sodium 'on the carbonate of lime which forms the shingle at this spot, but the con- ditions of this decomposition are not yet known, and this appears to be the first observation of the natural production of alkali from sea- water without organic agency. Bitartrate of potass.—M. Suter (' Journ. de Phar. et de Chim.,' p. 486) uses a dilute hydrochloric acid, consisting of equal parts of the ordinary acid and of water, for the purpose of dissolving out the bi- tartate of potass from crude tartar. In this way the formation of chloride of potassium is avoided, which was observed by Liebig to take place when the strong acid was employed. The solution is made by the aid of heat; and as it cools, crystals of the bitrartate are deposited from it, which only require washing, to free them from any adhering hydrochloric acid. The mother-liquor is used several times in succes- sion, till it becomes loaded with the salts of lime and iron. Citrate of mar/nesia.—M. Martin ('Bull, de Ther.,' Ixiv, 1863, p. 505) says that, in examining a specimen of English " citrate of magnesia," with the object of discovering the cause of its greater solubility and pleasantness, as compared with the French salt, he found it to consist of a mixture of bicarbonate of soda and citric acid. M. Letter, of Brussels (' Journ. de Phar. et, de Chim.,' p. 383) pre- pares the citrate of magnesia in the following manner. Twenty parts of citric acid are powdered, and are then mixed intimately witli twelve parts of the carbonate of magnesia. The powder which results is left to itself; it gradually undergoes chemical change, and forms a spongy mass. At the end of about four or five days, if a little of it be thrown into Avater, it will be found not to efiervesce. It is then dried at a temperature of 30° C.; it is reduced to powder, and must be kept in well-closed vessels. Eather a longer time may be required for the com- plete formation of the salt than that given above; the test of the com- bination being fully effected is tlie cessation of effervescence. Citrate of magnesia prepared in this way is perfectly soluble in water, and does not, like the ordinary salt, undergo in the course of time any change by which part of it is rendered insoluble. Salts oflarijia.—Onsum ('Virchow's Archiv,' xxviii, p. 233) made a series of experiments with the salts of baryta on animals. IToppe Seydler had found tliat a dog died a fortnight'after the administration of carbonate of baryta, witli niimerous hremorrhagic spots in the lungs, the tissue of which was already breaking down. The object of the paper is to show tliat the poisonous action of tlicse salts is exerted