DISEASES OF AVOJrEN. 389 POLTPUS OF THE UTEEtTS. Tlie followiug is an extract from the essay by Dr. M'Cliutock, ' Clinical Diseases of Women,' p. 155. Polypus uteri is very rarely met vith before the age of thirty. Of thirty-four cases noted by the author, the youngest was twenty-five, and the oldest sixty; married, widows, and virgins, were among the number, but of the last, comparatively few. The general structure of the polypi removed by the author was fibrous, or fibro-sarcomatous. The particular structure of which it is composed does not appear to influence the hajmorrhage or other symptoms of a polypus. Of the varieties, tlie fibrous or muscular generally arises from the fundus ; the sarcomatous, from the upper part of the cervix, or lower part of the body, the gelatinous and vascular almost always spring from the lower part of the cervix. Besides the leading sipnptom,—irregular ha)morrhage,—sickness of stomach is not infrequent. The surface of a beniffii polypus varies in colour from a pale pink, to a deep red or purple, and is smooth to the touch. Uterine pain, and tenderness on digital examination are generally absent, but the former may exist when the tumour is intra-iiterine, and the latter after it has been expelled. The diagnosis of an inti'a-uterine polypus is generally difiicult; but it may be suspected if there be frequent metrorrhagia, independently of pregnancy or disease of the ceiwix, and with the enlargement of the uterus. If a tumour appear at the os-uteri, exploration with the finger or uterine sound may clear up the doubt; if these fail, the growth may be seized with a vulsellum, and if it have a pedicle, some movement of rotation can be effected. Of the fibrinous polypus first described by Kiwisch, and noticed by Scanzoni and West, the author has met with one well-marked case, in which a dense coagulum, forming an exact cast of the uterus, was expelled thi-ee weeks after de- livery. He agrees with Scanzoni, that these formations are always to be regarded as sequelae of abortion, and there can be little doubt that some of the moles described by Musitamus and others, were identical with the fibrinous polypus. Bokitansky suggests the possibility of these polypi occasionally originating in alterations of the retained membranes after abortion ; and Prof. Braun, of Berlin, believes that a retained placenta is often the cause of polypoid bodies being formed within the uterus. See also a case of Dr. J. Ogle, 'Trans, of Path. Soc' In the treatment, Dr. M'Clintock strongly insists on the removal of the polypus by torsion, or excision by the "knife, scissors, or ecraseur, in preference to the ligature, for while the principal danger from excision is the haemorrhage, in the operation by the ligature it is the secondary or remote eftccts which are to be most dreaded. Of 34 cases noted by the author, there were only 3 fatal cases, all of which occurred after operation by the ligature; and of ^9 cases of ligature reported by Dr. E. Lee, 9 proved fatal, while, according to the same authority, out of 35 cases in which polypi were removed by excision or torsion, not one patient died. Scanzoni restricts the ligature to cases in which torsion is prevented by the thick- ness of tlie pedicle, and excision is impossible, from its being beyond