DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Meissner.—Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 119, p. 187. Gives a second report on the same subject. He notices several limited epidemics, in some of which the phenomena were very much like those of influenzal catarrh. The actual presence of the trichinae was not ascer- tained in any of them, but the resemblance of the symptoms to those produced by undoubted trichincc disease was very close. The most ex- tensive of these outbreaks seems to have been one at Blankenburg, of which an account is given by Scholz (v. -'Deutsche Klinik,' 49, ,50, 51, 1862). He terms it epidemic gastro-rheumatic fever, with acute oedema of the subcutaneous and muscular areolar tissue. It seems to have lasted from 1859 to 1862, and to liave affected 278 soldiers, without reckoning patients "in civil life. Many of the cases seem to have been but slight; in 130 the duration of the disease was only i to 3 days; in 42 it was not above i week; in 33 not above 2 weeks ; in 16 not above 3 weeks ; in 14 it did not exceed 4; in 13, 5 weeks; in 12, 6 weeks ; in 4, 7 weeks; in 10, 10 weeks; and in 4 it varied between 71 and 94 days. The above dates refer to the discharge of the patients from the hospital, but weeks elapsed in the majority before they recovered their former strength. The first cases of an epidemic were always the severest, and the two fatal cases which occurred belonged to the same period. Most of the cases happened during the first six months of the year; only in the year 18^9 were any met with in the second half. This is explained by the circumstance that pigs are killed only in the latter part of the winter (after Christmas) and in the spring. The disease chiefly affected persons in early and middle life; those above the age of fifty-five were exempt, as well as those below the age of twelve. Many more men were attacked than women, and with few exceptions the patients belonged to the lower classes. For the most part the disease set in suddenly with heat and sweating, succeeding to a smart rigor; more rarely it com- menced gradually with dyspepsia, loss of appetite, vomiting, diarrhoea, and rheumatic pains, followed by fever and swelling of the face. The course varied with the intensity of the disease. The abortive form, where the duration did not exceed a week, commenced suddenly with pain and heat of the head, redness of the face and eyes, swelling around the latter, pains in the neck and the limbs, coated tongue, sometimes vomiting, usually constipation, and immoderate lassitude and tendency to sweating. In cases of medium severity (lasting one or two weeks), instead of improvement occurring on the third day, the fever and swelling of the face increased, the tongue became more coated, and the dragging pains in different muscles became more urgent. In many instances there occurred cedematous swelling of the arms and legs, as well as the characteristic muscular contractures. The fever, however, did not run high, declined on the fifth, seventh, or ninth day, and at the same time the other morbid phenomena disappeared rapidly, the tendency to sweat- ing and the muscular weakness continuing some time longer. In the graver cases the disease mostly set in with marked rigor, but sometimes also in an insidious manner, with a gradual increase of originally obscure symptoms. The patients lay almost always motionless, with swollen face their arms flexed and swelled, their legs also swollen, but extended ; they complained of violent pains in the forehead, in the arms and legs, some-