rOElIATION OF OUGiiNIZBD BODIES. 7 &c., in retorts, with air which had been freed from germs by a higli temperature. After the lapse of nearly three years no putrefaction was found in any case, and only in that of the milk was the amount of free oxygen reduced to less than 11 per cent. ; in most cases there was a loss^of not more than a or 3 per cent. To eliminate the possible effect of boiling, blood drawn direct from the vessels of a healthy dog had been kept in the presence of air freed from germs for six weeks, and underwent no putrefaction. Only 2 or 3 per cent, of the O was con- verted into C0.> Under these circumstances, however, blood-crystals form with remarkable facility. After a few weeks, the more quickly the higher the temperature, the blood-globules entirely disappear alike from serum and clot, and innumerable needle-shaped crystals are seen in both. In another paper Pasteur continues the subject of the peculiar life of the vibrios which produce fermentation. He first observes that the word putrefaction, indicating spontaneous changes in organic matters attended with a foetid smell, is used in a sense at once too narrow and too wide. Eightly, it should include processes unattended by foetor, such as the butyric fermentation of lactate of lime, the foetor depending altogether on the presence of sulphur ; and it should not include gangrene, which is essentially distinct. In all cases of putrefaction or fermentation the agents are vibrios, which perish by contact with oxygen. "When a liquid putrefies in the presence of air, there take place two distinct processes—first, monads and bacteria form, and change the O it con- tains into CO2; then, if their germs are present, there appear within the mass vibrios, which institute the process of fermentation. The monads, &c., still form a layer on the surface, guarding the vibrios from the air, and multiplying indefinitelJ^ By the vibrios the nitrogenized matters are decomposed into simpler, but still complex, compounds, which, through the agency of the monads and bacteria, are then "burnt," and resolved into inorganic binary compounds, HO, NH.,, CO.^. If no germs of vibrios are present, no further change takes place after the monads have consumed the 0 ; the liquid remains indefinitely without either putrefying or fermenting. The case is rare, but Pasteur has met with several instances. Thus fermentation, though it might seem to be impossible in the presence of air, is, in fact, only then the most complete. "When it takes place in the absence of air, the intermediate substances resulting from it remain without further alteration. The fermentation of sugar affords an example, the alcohol in presence of air being acetified and biu-nt; so also with the butyric fermentation of the lactate of lime. A very thin layer of organic liquid exposed to tlie air neither ferments nor putrefies, inasmuch as vibrios cannot form in it; it presents the phenomena of combustion only. Pouchet adduces experiments against the assertion of Pasteur, that on mountains air can be collected, without modification of its chemical or physical properties, which will not produce any alteration even in a very putrescible liquid. He obtained air, with all the precautions men- tinned hj Pasteur, at a height of 3000 metres, (r-86 mile, looom. higher