REPOUT ON MIDWIFBEYj EtC. 866 cases which ended fatally, the child was mature in three. In the fifth case the foetus was in the eightli month ; labour was induced, and ver- sion tried without success, although the arm was amputated; finally, craniotomy was performed. The following conclusions, the author- thinks, may be fairly drawn: i. If the child be alive, and at full term, if it present by the trunk in a contraction below six or seven centi- metres (about two and a quarter inches), turning by external manipu- lation having been tried for the purpose of facilitating the application of instruments, and found to be impossible, the Caesarean section is to be considered. 2. The foetus not being at term, and turning being found to be impossible, the amputation of the arm will certainly facilitate the manipulation for version; moreover, the section of the neck or of the trunk will be easily made by the author's mode, and the extraction of the foetus will not present insurmountable difficulties if it have not passed the seventh month. 3. If the child be dead, even at full time, whatever difficulties and dangers are presented by the series of operations necessary to deliver the woman by the natural passages, the Cassarean section will be absolutely rejected. After having applied the new mode of embryotomy, we should endeavour to break down successively the different foetal parts which present themselves at the brim by repeated cephalotripsy. Dr. Halahan, " On the Treatment of Prolapsed Funis" (' Dub. Quart. Jour.,' Aug., 1862). ProlajDsed pulsating funis, with head presenta- tions, generally occurs at the rupture of the membranes. From the records of the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, the funis prolapsed in 304 cases out of 51,061 patients, or about i in every 168. The mortality from the above reports, which include all cases of pro- lapse of the funis without regard to the presentation, was a little over 66 per cent.; but the author believes this to be about the average mor- tality in cases where the prolapse occurs at the rupture of the mem- branes with head presentations. Ten cases are related, in all of whicli reposition was attempted by carefully pushing up the funis above the brim of the pelvis. In a cases only did it again prolapse after reposi- tion, and when properly replaced, the author considers no artificial aid is necessary to keep it up. The prolapse occurred in the first stage of labour in 8 cases, and in the second stage in 2 cases. In all but 2 of the cases the membranes were ruptured at the time the prolapse was discovered. In 2 cases the forceps were applied, in i of which the mother died. Perforation in i case, and the remaining 7 left to nature. Nine of the mothers recovered and i died. Of the children, 7 were born alive and 3 dead. Dr. Lumley Earle condemns the practice of turning in prolapse of the funis, and advocates Sir Eichard Croft's method by which the cord is passed up to the fundus of the uterus, and then hooked over the highest part of the foBtus. Of 7 cases of prolapsed funis which he records, this plan was adopted with success in 3 cases; of the remaining 4, version was performed in a cases, and in the other a the cord was