814 REPORT ON SURGERY. (3) Having determinetl the position of tlie patient according to the necessities of the case, slowly introduce the lithotrite, and take care that the blades reach or pass beyond the centre of the bladder before the male blade is withdrawn. (4) Execute every movement deliberately; open and close, incline, or rotate, slowly, without any jerk whatever; and all without bringing the blades into contact, as far as it is possible, with the walls of the bladder. (5) Maintain the long axis of the instrument in the median line of the body, and the blades at or near the centre of the bladder, this being the area for operating mostly to be chosen. In screwing home the male blade to crush, it is especially necessary to keep the instrument steady, otherwise niuch vibration of it may be occasioned, and much lateral movement of the blades from its axis at each turn ; a small deviation at the handle produces a large one at the blades. (6) The usual position of a large stone is near the necii of the bladder; of a small one at or near the back of the trigone, and the lithotrite should be applied accordingly. (7) When the stone is caught, especially if in the fenestrated litho- trite, rotate it a fourth of a turn on its axis before screwing up iirmly or crushing, to make certain that notliing is included besides the stone. (8) Having broken a stone or a large fragment, the operator may pick up and crush piece after piece consecutively, without further searching, if he is only careful to work the lithotrite exactly at the same spot—the patient of course not shifting his position—since fragments fall immediately beneath the blades of the instrument, and rest there. (9) Never withdraw a lithotrite loaded with calculous debris; a moderate quantity will come away between the plain blades ; but if an impediment is felt at the neck of the bladder on withdrawing, return to the centre of the cavity and unload them. Xhis can always be done Avith a properly constructed lithotrite. (10) No sitting should exceed five minutes in duration, except under very peculiar circumstances. The large majority of sittings should occupy only three minutes, some less. The mere sojourn of a lithotrite, without any movement, for three minutes in the bladder, causes un- easiness, and often subsequent irritability, which may be considerable if the time is prolonged. (11) If the patient experiences an unusual amount of pain at the commencement of any sitting, it is wise to postpone it until another day, or make it very short. Such unlooked-for pain is a useful intimation that tlie urinary ipassages are not at this time in fit condition for our piu-pose, and by acting upon it, we may avoid serious mischief (12) After the first sitting, it is generally desirable that the patient should have hot fomentations to the hypogastrium and perineum, remain in the horizontal position, and pass his water in tliat position, if he can. He should remain tolerably quiet until the debris has passed, which usually happens within three days of the sitting. (13) The removal of debris by injecting ;^and washing out the