EJ3P011T ON MIDWIFEUY, ETC. 342 puerperal convulsious, 7 of ante-partura hajmoi-rhage, aud i of post' partum, 7 of retained placenta, 2 of syncope after delivery, and 1 monster. Eight of these occurred in primipara and 13 in multi- pai'aa. The 3 cases of convulsions were all primipara), and all recovered; in I caao twins were delivered alive by tlie forceps; in each of the cases venesection was employed. _ Of the 7 cases of ante-partum haemorrhage, 5 occurred at the full time and 2 prematurely ; 2 were primiparo3, and 5 multiparas. All the mothers recovered, but only one of the children was saved; in 2 of the cases version was performed, the rest were left to nature after the membranes were ruptured. In the single case of post-partum hemorrhage the latter was arrested by pressure and cold. Of the 7 cases of retained placenta, the retention was due to inertia of the uterus in 6, and in i to hour-glass contraction. In the latter case the placenta was very friable, and broke down during removal. Some small pieces were thus left in the uterus, and, as the patient was much exhausted, it was not deemed prudent to attempt their extraction. Irritative fever and other symptoms of uterine phle- bitis resulted, and the patient died on the eleventh day. In all such cases the author recommends immediate removal of every part of the broken placenta, if possible; but if, from haemorrhage or exhaustion, this be inexpedient, stimulants and ergot should be administered, and, if necessary, after waiting a few hours, the patient should be put under chloroform, and the removal of every portion of the placenta be now effected by the reintroduction of the hand into the uterus. The author believes that the risJc, hoth ofj)ost-])artum hcemorrhage and of retained pla- centa, whether from inertia or irregular contraction, is directly as the timeiohich elapses hettoeen the hirth of the child and the expulsion of the placenta, and that any line of practice, otherwise unoljectionable, tending to secure the expulsion of the afterhirtli loithin.ten or fifteen minutes from the time of the tvoman's delivery, will reduce to a minimum the chance of such contingencies. The following simple and most valuable rule is recommended by the author as the best mode of lessening the chance ot post-partum hemor- rhage. After the birth and separation of the child, let the funis be held with the right hand, and maintained tense, loithout, hoivever, any dragging, and let the left hand at the same time grasp the fundus and body of the uterus through the abdominal parietes, and thus keep up steady pressure until the placenta is expelled. Two cases of syncope followed delivery; in both, recovery resulted from the use of stimulants and pressure over' the uterus. (5) There were 17 twin cases—3 were primipara and 14 non-primi- paraj. In 7 cases both children presented naturally; in 10 one of the children presented abnormally, and this happened, with only one excep- tion, with the second child. The shortest interval between the birth of the children was five minutes, the longest three and a half hours. In each of the 3 primipara? the co-twins were males. All the mothers recovered well, and of the children all were born alive, with the excep- tion of one dead before birth.