183 MATERIA CIIIUUBGICA AND MEDICAL TREATMENT. possible condition for recovery, as well as for the exertion of the necessary reparative process. A certain reduced and debilitated or exsanguine condition appears to be necessary for the safe adminis- tration of the drug in full doses; in proportion as reaction or in- flammation have actually advanced, it will be necessary to be more careful of its dangerous effects being developed in the form of con- gestion or even narcotism. " In a case attended by Dr. Eobert Nelson many years ago, in Canada, a gentleman had been wounded in a duel. The" ball struck the posterior third of the crest of the right ilium, fractured that bone, and entered the body of the last lumbar vertebra, where it was found some eighteen years after. On the third night the agony of the patient was such as the doctor had never before seen, nor since; the bedstead trembled with his body; he breathed and spoke through his teeth, and perspired so much as to wet through a hair mattress. He entreated for relief of any kind, even called for death. To this patient, at 8 p.m., forty drops of tinct. opium were given; at 9 p.m., 5ij ; at 9.45, p.m., 5iij ; at 10.30, p.m., sj ; at 12 p.m.,_3SS; and between 3 and 4 a.m., 5SS; in all, 5xxiss; when relief was obtained. I should add, he had been previously very freely bled. This large quantity of laudanum was taken with impunity and benefit. He sub • sequently took 3SS-doses two or three times in the twenty-four hours, these producing and leaving behind no other symptoms than those of a moderate anodyne in ordinary cases of sickness; he gradually im- proved, and recovered. In the above case, of which only a short abstract is here given, we have the conditions necessary to establish a full tolerance of opiCim, viz., a system reduced by copious bleeding, and shattered by the severe and exhausting pain of a terrible injury, invoh-ing both sensitive and ganglionic nerves. We find that it was necessary to repeat the opiate in full doses, in order to keep the pain subdued, and such will mostly be necessary ; but instances will sometimes occur when the pain, being once eftectually subdued by opium, will not return, although the lesion that caused it remains. Before the soothing effect of the drug has worn olf, the system appears to have become reconciled to the injury. May we not infer from such cases as the above that when, by shock, or haemorrhage, or venesection, the necessary tolerance of opium has been established, that we may take the alleviation of pain as a safe guide for the extent to which it may be administered, giving it to any amount necessary to relieve pain, and no more—the cessation of the latter being evidence that the system has been thoroughly brought under its sedative influence ?" M. Demarquay on glycerine and its application to surgery and me- dicine (pp. 240, Paris, Asselin).—Glycerine is now preferred by many to fatty ointments as a local application, because the latter oxidize, become rancid, and irritate ; whilst the former mixes with water and is unaffected by the air, and thus appears to possess all the advantages of a fat without its inconveniences. Dr. Tilt, on glycerine plasters (' Brit. Med. .Tournal,' 1863,1, 406). M. Bouillon, on the preparation of Canquoin's paste with glycerine ('Arch. Gen.,' 1863, i, 357). Prof.* Schuh on the use of caustics (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 179, &c.),