57 GKNEHAL SYSTEAr. diplUherift), or of the latter complicated with pharyngeal, and 5 cases in which the disease appeared in some region of the body without attacking the throat or larynx. In 1859 there were 2 cases of cutaneous diphtheria, 31 of pharyngeal, 208 of laryngeal, simple or complicated. The total number of cases in the two years being 446; the total deaths were .310, nearly the same number in both years. Laryngeal diphtheria was much the most fatal form. Of 54 cases of pharyngeal only 24 died, while of 362 cases of laryngeal 330 died. Two hundred and ninety-four patients were tracheotomized, of whom only 65 recovered. Most of the fatal cases died very early after the operation ; more than half sank before the fourth day. The causes of death were chiefly pneumonia, either simple or com- plicated with bronchitis, inanition, resulting from diphtheric intoxication or from the misuse of antimonials, convulsions, suppurations in the mediastinum, gangrene or erysipelas of the edges of the wounds, and, lastly, emphysema, subpleural, or subcutaneous. Of 67 cases of croup which were not operated on, 45 died. Excluding the hopeless cases, in which no. operation was performed, the experience of the Ilopital des Enfans Malades, for three years, shows that the chance of recovery for cases which would otherwise certainly end fatally is about 19 or 20 in 100. Kiichenmeister ('Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk.,' 13, i^, 1863} has examined the effects of many local applications on diphtheric exu- dations removed from the body. He finds lime-water the most eflectual. It quite dissolves the membranes in ten to fifteen minutes, and long before that time makes their texture loose and easily broken up. In slighter cases this remedy alone may be sufficient; but in all the severer, caustics, as argenti nitras or muriatic acid, are indispensable. In cases of smart angina of the throat and tonsils the local application of lime-water, by frequent gargling or brushing, and the internal administration of nitrate and carbonate of soda, prove speedily curative. The same report contains a notice of a gangrenous affection of the fauces, which was observed by R. F. Browne ('Amer. Med. Times,' Nov., 1862). It prevailed among weakly and depressed men, reduced by the prevailing malarious fever, but did not attack the wounded. The throat was the only part affected ; there was no trace of inflammation, the disease came on imperceptibly, without pain, or sense of constriction, or dyspnoea (except in one case just before death). In none of the cases was there any pulmonary or hospital gan- grene or scurvy. The disease was solely the result of lowered vitality. The muscles, especially the tissue of the heart, were found after death flabby and autemic. Menschel & Beigel.—On Malignant Carbuncle {milzhrand). Preuss. Ver. Ztg., N.F.V. 23, 28, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 41. Menschel observed twenty-four cases, most of whom were taken ill after partaking of the flesh of diseased animals; the others were infected by communication of the poison. In the former the carbuncle appeared on the eighth to the tenth, in the latter, on the third to the sixth day. None of the attendants were infected by the sanies of the ulcers, although several were soiled by it. Several of the cases died, others recovered in seven to forty-one days. Treatment consisted of emetics, acids, alkalies, and caustics, locally. Beigel found chlorine, apparently both externally and