50 lllil'OllT ON i'UACTlCAL MKUICINK, Haldanu.—Oti the employment of Sarraceiua purpurea in Smallpox. Edin. Med. Jouin., Jan. llaldanc gave the decoetion of the dried root to six patients, iu whom the disease was unmodified by vaccination or a previous attack, and reports that no change whatever of any kind was produced, lie regards the drug as utterly useless. BoWEN, F., M.D.—Med. Times and Gaz., May 23rd. Relates that he has found, after trials with many otlier remedies, nothing so successful for preventing the pitting after smallpox as puncturing the vesicles, from the fifth to tiie seventh day, with a needle dipped in a solu- tion of Arg. Nitras, 5ss, ad Aq. 3j. In twenty-four hours the vesicle has dried up, no itching or unpleasantness remaining. His first experience of this plau was in a case where one side only of the face was thus treated ; the result being that while the unoperated side was deeply pitted, the other half was smooth and free from spots as before the attack. Marson, J. F.—Lancet, July 4th. V States that he made trial of the Sarracenia purpurea in i J cases. He reports that he cannot say it had any effect whatever. It did not save life; it did not modify in the least the eruption of smallpox ; it did not influence any of the secretions; it did not increase the flow of urine ; in only one instance did it seem to act on the bowels, and this seeming effect might easily have been from other causes. All the cases died. Ckosby, J. P.—Med. Times and Gnz., July nth. Gives a report of the recent epidemic of smallpox in Edinburgh. The number of cases was 350, of whom 45 died. The males were 189, the females 161. The most common age was from 20 to 25. The highest mortality occurred at ages from 30 to 50, and next under 5 years. Vac- cination had been performed in 206, in many very imperfectly ; the mor- tality among these was 4, and in 3, at least, there was a serious complica- tion, as delirium tremens, puerperal mania, acute bronchitis. Of the 124 unvacciuated, 41 died, or i in 3 ; the ratio of the vaccinated being as WiLKS.—Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 17th, 31st. Gives some interesting "Notes on Scarlet Fever," in which he mentions a form of rheumatism which is apt to accompany the exanthemata. In this, as iu ordinary rheumatic fever, there is hyperinosis of the blood, a tendency to deposition of the fibrine of the blood in the capillary system of the viscera and on the valves of the heart, and to endocarditis. Pyemia does not appear to be the cause of this affection, but rather a peculiar state of the blood, in which some secondary poison has been developed. Another point which he notices at some length is the not unfrcquent difli- cultv of diagnosis between scarlatina and measles; a child, for instance, havin"' a me°asly rash, cough, wheezing, coryza, and the general aspect of measles, with also a swollen neck, an injected throat, and tumiJ, soft palate Wilks is inclined to look upon such cases as belonging to a dis- tinct affection, which, with Dr. Copland, he would term rubeola.