llEPORT ON SUEGEUY. 2S0 foreiga body firmly impacted within the rima, aud consequently in a osition from which ita removal cannot be looked upon as being very ifficult. In two of the cases which I have recorded, out of the three which proved fatal, after a futile attempt at the removal of tiie foreign body by tracheotomy had been made, 1 have already shown that tlie foreign body was subsequently found to be firmly impacted within the rima ; and it is fair to believe that, if the foreign body had been pre- viously removed from this position, a very diff"erent success would in both cases have been recorded. This laryngeal exploration must, how- ever, be conducted witli considerable care. The passage of a probe or fine catheter, or any other small body, through the rima from below up- wards, ia positively useless, as experience has proved that these means may be carefully employed, and yet the surgeon will fail in finding any obstruction ; but the exploratory instrument must be a large one; indeed, it should be nearly as large as can be admitted through the rima; so that, if the foreign body lodge at this spot, it will necessaril}'^ be pushed up- wards into the pharynx by its forcible passage. A large elastic catheter ia unquestionably the best instrument for this purpose ; and if this be employed in such cases, it may be unhesitatingly asserted that a more uniformly good success will in future have to be recorded. This prac- tice would probably have added two more successful cases to the five which I have already mentioned, making seven successful instances of the removal of the body, out of tiie eight in which it had taken place. Within the last few months, I was present at the examination of a child who had died from the impaction of a bone ^vithin the i-ima, which had not been detected after the operation of tracheotomj^ although a careful examination of the larynx was made with a fine instrument. It was impossible to see the specimen without a painful feeling of regret that a larger instrument had not been employed in the exploration, for the body was at once dislodged after death by the introduction of a catheter up the passage. In all cases, therefore,,of foreign body in the air-passages, in which an expulsion cannot be obtained by the opera- tion of tracheotomy, let the larynx be carefully examined by means of a large catheter, and its extremity passed from below upwards through the rima; the finger at the same time making a careful examination from above ; for by these means, and these only, will a foreign body be re- moved from the rima glottidis."* Mr. Spence, extrq^tion of a foreign body from the bronchus (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' viii, 979). Mr. Briddon, removal of necrosed cartilage from the larynx ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, ii, 327). Dr. Tobold, M. Yerneuil, M. Trelat, on polypi ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, pp. 455, 467 ; ' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, pp. 161, 292, &c.). Gr. Lewin, essay on new growths ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, pp. 19, 114, &c.). Dr. Kauchfuss, case of removal of a laryngeal polypus, and excision of one vocal cord * .1. F. May succeeded in dislodging a coflee-graiu from the larynx by the use of a small whalebone probang, the sponge of which was calculated to fit the_ larynx rather closely, and thus to force anything it might encounter past the epiglottis. This instrunient wa.s introduced through the wound and forced upwards, looking in the mouth, he saw it pass the epiglottis. ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' new ser., vol. 23, p. 412.)