15il EEPOUT ON PKACTICAL JtEDICINE, tlie movements of the arytenoid cartilages this membrane is alternately thrown into folds and stretched, the excitement of which disposes these glands to excessive secretion. This, again, when there exists a tendency to tuberculous deposit, leads to the formation of funnel-shaped ulcers, and in such circumstances a simple erosion by becoming infected with tuberculous or syphilitic pus may change into a specific ulcer. New growths do occasionally occur in this situation, but are rare. On the other hand, swelling and thickening of the mucous membrane are com- mon, especially in officers, who have often to give words of command. The relaxed membrane gets between the vocal cords and arytenoid pro- cesses, and appears often, when the glottis is open, as a pea-shaped swelling. The voice is rather but not remarkably hoarse ; tiie principal com- plaint of such patients is that they experience an unpleasant tickling in the larynx, which easily induces coughing. Generally, disease of the mucous membrane between the two arytenoid cartilages produces spas- modic reflex phenomena, whose import has hitherto been mistaken, as difficulty of swallowing, vomiting, and spasm of the glottis. Lewin next remarks on changes taking place in the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage. The yellow spot in which the elastic fibres of the vocal cord pass through fibro-cartilage into the hyaline substance of the arytenoid, and which, in all vocal actions, is chiefly exposed to pressure, is in phthi- sical persons very much disposed to the formation of small ulcers, which penetrate to the fibro-cartilage, and denude the vocal process on its inner side, and destroy it; especially when, as often occurs in the tuberculous dyscrasia, the extremity of the vocal process is converted into a sharp, bony point. The ulcers creep forwards along the vocal cords, find pene- trate more deeply at their anterior commissui'e, where there are numerous glands. With regard to catarrhal laryngitis, Tiirck affirms that it may be limited to the epiglottis, or to the membrane covering the arytenoid cartilages. In the latter case, when there is much swelling, the glottis cannot be completely closed. The superior vocal cords may be inflamed on both or on one side only; when highly inflamed, they appear as red rolls, covering over the vocal cords, closing the ventricles, and impairing the vibration of the lower cords. The latter may be reddened in streaks, or more or less completely; sometimes they are also swollen, and form a reddish ridge projecting at its internal border, or develop a small round tumour, or they may appear as if their surface had been cauterized, and their epithehum had separated. A distended vein is often seen running parallel to their inner free borders. In two instances Lewin observed an actual specific inflammation of the vocal cords, such that they appeared, as it were, saturated with blood, while the symptoms appeared to be those of croup. There is nothing characteristic in the cough, when the vocal cords are inflamed. Hoarseness almost constantly occurs, but may have disappeared when one cord still remains red and swollen. The glottis is sometimes contracted by the swelling of the vocal cords and of the mucous membrane lining the posterior wall of the larynx. Tiie duration of laryngeal catarrh varies from weeks to months; when very intense, the inflammation may lead to the formation of ulcers, which, however, gene- rally heal without loss of substance. Laryngeal catarrh may be chronic from its commencement, and almost limited to the vocal cords ; and then