17G;« IJKPOUT OS I'ltACTICAL MKIJICINK, there is n note from M. Landouzy, stating tlint tlie endemic pellagrous aHectioiis of Spain are absolutely identical M'itli those of the Landes (French) district, and those of Italy, and with the sporadic pellagrous liisenses of France. The endemic pellagra of Aragon, where crops of ex- cellent cereals are grown, and not a grain of maize is eaten, is absolutely identical with the endemic pellagra of Asturias, where maize forms the staple of tlie food. Cautisk, H. v., M.D. Lond.—On Leprosy, as seen in India; u-ilh re- marks on the eruption and anaesthesia. Brit, and For, Med.-Chir. lie v., Jan., 1863. During the last twelve years 54,3 deaths from leprosy have been registered in Bombay ; of which 409 were males, 134 females. The fre- quency of the disease in the class concerned in catching and Belling fish is very I'cmarkable, especially as this class contributes but in a trifling propoi*- tion to the general mortality. Leprosy presents three phases—(i) an eruption or affection of the skin accompanied with anaesthesia, and pro- bably allied, to lepra (Grsccorum) ; (2) an affection of the cutaneous nerves and superficially placed nerve-trunks, and of the Pacinian cor- puscles ; (3) a tumefaction or tubercular thickening of the skin, and the mucous membrane of the palate and pharynx. These primary symptoms, seldom, if ever, occur quite independently ; hut in all cases "one or other will be found to predominate, and to determine the variety or form the disease has assumed, which, however, may change as time advances. (I) Of the eruption.—Carter distinguishes four varieties—(i) the typical, consist- ing of circular or annular patches, from three quarters of an inch to four inches in diameter with edges raised, of a light-red or pinkish hue, free from scales, cracked or wrinkled; centre depressed, pale, dry, glistening; they tend to join andcoverlfirgcspaces. The raised margin issligbtlybenumbed ; the centre of the patches insensible; often entirely so, and always in the older ones. No preceding signs of irritation. The arrangement is more or less perfectly symmetrical. The shoulders, hips, elbows, knees, arm, thigh, forearm and leg, temples, cheeks, and back, are the sites mostly affected. The general health and bodily condition are good. (3) The second form consists of extensive patches occupying the back of the trunk, limbs, &c., often so large as to embrace considerable segments of the trunk or to surround a limb like a broad bandage. The margin is two or three inches broad, elevated, and of a light red; the centre de- pressed and benumbed, dry, pale, or of a darker tint. In both (i and 2) anaesthetic leprosy generally coexists. These forms of eruption may be seen at the end of one year, or not fully developed until three or four. (3) The third form is more frequent, and consists in a light discoloured state of the skin, in the form of irregular, often large patches, of which the surface presents hardly any other visible change than that of colour. The tubercular character is reduced to a minimum, and the border is indicated by a narrow, level, and reddish line, or by a level, lighter-coloured streak, the central parts having resumed a more or less natural tint, but remaining insensible. (4) The fourth form consists of numerous round, pale-white spots, whitest in the centres, markedly antesthetic, from which the cuticle tends to peel off. The surface of the patches presents a rather