388 llJStOllT ON MlUWiFKEY, ETC. records a case of complete procidentia and inversion of the uterus, witli a polypus attached to tlie fundus ; extirpation of tlie uterus by the ecraseur was performed after it had been ligatured three days, and the patient got rapidly well. In any case of chronic inversion calling for extirpation, Dr. M'Cliutock states that he will, without hesitation, adopt a yimiiar course. ' Diseases of Women,' p. 97. Cases of acute inversion of the uterus are recorded by:—Mr. Thorne (' Lancet,' vol. i, 1863, p. 266); Mr. Hooker, ('Med. Times and Graz.,' vol. ii, 1863, p. 277), and Dr. Eamsbotham, (ibid. 432). Hetroflexion of the TJtems. Dr. Ereund, of Breslau, on ' Retroflexlo Uteri and its Consequences.' In this affection, the connective tissue is considerably altered at those points where the flexion takes place; there are adhesions between the fund us of the uterus and the rectum, owing to peritonitis. The posterior wall of the flexed womb is filled with masses of connective tissue, the seat and extent of which determine the ease or difficulty of reposition. Hydronephrosis is a frequent concomitant affection, and is caused either by real stenosis of one or both ureters, or by flexion, owing to dislocation of the womb. After perimetritis, the ureter fre- quently adheres to the lateral wall of the uterus ; and this explains the symptoms of hydronephrosis during life, viz., violent lumbar pains, shooting downwards along the ureters, neuralgia in the lo\^'er extremi- ties, headache, disordered functions of the bladder, and dyspepsia, all which were formerly attributed to hysteria. The condition of the urine resembles that observed in catarrh of the bladder, and pyelitis might often be the consequence. Regarding the treatment. Dr. Freuud re- commends reposition by mechanical means^ more especially by jNI. Valleix's sound, and medicated enemata (' Mon. £ Geb.,' supplement, vol. 1862). DISEASES OF THE UTERUS.—TUBEHCULOSIS. Tuberculosis of the uterus is a very rare disease. Mr. Tomlinsou contributes a case, 'Trans, of Obst. Soc.,' vol. v., p. 174. The patient, a single lady, £et. 55, had suffered from a profuse Avatery discharge of a dirty-brown colour, without smell, for more than two years. The uterus was found to be enlarged, but no conclusion could be formed as to the nature of the disease. She died fifteen months after being first seen. The uterus, Fallopian tubes, and ovaries were found enlarged and filled with tuberculous masses, on the removal of which the inner surface of the uterus presented a pitted or honeycomb appearance as far as the cervix, which was hypertrophied, but otherwise perfectly liealthy. There were no tubercles in the lungs, nor in any other organ. Dr. Oldham remarks that in six cases of this disease which he had seen, the cavity was attacked in almost all, and generally was of small size.