IIUPOET ON surgehy. 226 formidable obstacle; indeed, in some coses, reduction is more readily cH'ccted by metliods in which the muscles which are already tense ai*e rendered yet more so. Finally, in some rare cases, great importance ha^> been assijj;ncd to the resistance of certain muscles, which were supposed to liold the dislocated portion like a button in a button-hole; such a supposition was induced by cases in which reduction could not bo ell'ected, even by violent force, and in which, after death, the head of the dislocated bone was found to be held between tense muscles; thu.^, in a case of luxation of the femur backwards, where the head was placed between the pyriformis and obturator. Further experimental researches have, however, shown that such muscular button-holes are for the mo.st part imaginary, and that the obstacle to reduction really depends on very different parts, the capsule and its accessory ligaments. AVere the pyriformis and obturator to impede reduction, great force would rupture them, owing to their tenseness. The extension applied does not, however, act on them, because its force is broken by the resistance of the ligaments, a resistance which it cannot overcome. In most un- reduced dislocations failure has been owing to the use of unfit methods, and not to the resistance of the muscles. Every one knows the case of Lisfranc, in which such a button-hole was supposed to be the obstacle, and where, after death, the use of a proper method effected reductiojn with the greatest ease. On the other hand, it cannot be denied that, in some dislocations, the resistance of the capsule to exten- sion in a certain direction is increased by the tension of the muscles, as in dislocation of the hip on to the pubis, when the head lies under the psoas and iliacus. This muscle resists extension of the extremity in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the body, just in the same manner as the capsule, an artificial difficulty, however, which can be avoided by the employment of a proper method. For the very reason that we can now eliminate almost all the resist- ance of the muscles by the use of chloroform, much more attention has been recently paid to the tension of tlie capsule and the form of the bones as obstacles to reduction. Since Malgaigne pointed out the im- portance of recognising the spot at which the capsule is ruptirred,Koser (in his revision of the theory of luxations) and Weber (in his ' Chirurgisclic Erfahrungen') have treated this matter with great thoroughness, and have applied the results, at which they arrived, to practice. Quito recently a complete essay on the most difficult dislocations to reduce, those of the hip, has been published by Gelle in Paris; he, however, after the usual custom, has entirely neglected the researches of German in- vestigators. Prof. Busch has himself made a considerable number of ex- periments on the subject, and has in general arrived at the same result as Eoser, at the old principle of Galen and J. L. Petit, that the reduction of a dislocation is most easy when the dislocated bone follows the same course, but in the opposite direction, to the one along which it originally passed, and that the most favorable position of the limb for reduction is that in which the displacement occurred: in respect to the treatment of dislocation of the femur, he found some modifications of Eoser's principles advisable. *' On the morning of the 12th February, 1861, a young man applied