107 N'BRVOUS SYSTEM. suddenly the same evening. None of the cranial bones or vertebraj were fractured. The substance of the cerebrum was perfectly healthy, and no extravasation was found anywhere ; its cavities were free from fluid eflfu- eion, and the nerves arising from the base, with some exceptions, to be mentioned, were uninjured. The under surface of the right hemisphere of the cerebellum was superficially lacerated. The medulla oblongata, at its right posterior aspect and right side, was the seat of extravasation of blood, which was connected with two lacerations of the nervous structure. The upper of these was found to have divided the right restiform body about its middle, extending behind almost to the median furrow of the fourth ventricle, and in front as far as the line of origin of the eighth pair of nerves. As far as it was possible to judge, this laceration involved the whole or very nearly the whole of the fibres of the restiform body and a portion of the gray matter spread out on the floor of the fourth ventricle. None of the roots of the eighth pair of nerves were torn, but the laceration extended close to the superficial origin of the glosso-pharyngeal and par vagum, and, no doubt, involved their deep fibres. The second laceration was situated just below and to the right of the nib of the calamus scrip- torius. It had divided the posterior pyramid and the tract outside it, which is the continuation of the posterior column of the spinal cord. Its depth was about one sixth of an inch ; it extended from the median fissure to the line of attachment of the posterior roots. A vertical laceration passing down the inner side of the restiform body connected the two transverse. The case shows that the restiform body is not the medium for the transmission of impressions from the posterior roots to the sensorium. Palmer, T., M.D.—On Meflex Hemiplegia. Lancet, Dec. 19th. Palmer records the following case:—A. B—, set. 63, free from any con- stitutional or organic disease, toothless, but in the habit of taking meat, was suddenly seized with left-sided hemiplegia iii April, 1859. '^^"^^^ im- proved materially after a gr. iv dose of calomel; and after six leeches and a few doses of aperient medicine, disappeared in four days. For four years he continued well, except his annual attack of bronchitis. He had much anxiety in business. Early in 1863 he began to 8uff"er from nervous disorders, unbearable restlessness, and oppression in the early morning, severe nervous dyspepsia, inability to attend to business—in fact, various symptoms of cerebral irritation. These were markedly relieved for a time by narcotics, but in a few days their eff'ect was lost, and he was worse than before. A powerful cholagogue of calomel and sulphate of man- ganese at last brought away a large quantity of very offensive faeces, and the patient was permanently relieved. Palmer observes that the result in the second attack shows the hemiplegia of tlie former to have been probably reflex. Laycock, T., M.D.—On the Cerebrospinal Origin, and the Diagnosis of the Protrusion of the Eyeballs termed Ancemic. Edin. Med. Jour., Feb., 1863. Laycock dissents from the view that the symptom in question is the result of ansemia, and refers it rather to disorder of the nervous system. He distributes the cases in which it occurs into various groups :—(i) The