JIEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 4G0 pulmonary disease, one of which coexists with the black deposit in each case, (5) The black colour of the sputa is of no value in the diagnosis of this allection. In true melanosis it is of importance. Mi7ie disease.—Rav/itz ('Pr. Mihtariirzt. Ztg.,' 11, 12, 1862 ; ' Schmidt,' 1863, i, p. 85) looks on the affection which occurs in mines, and which was first described by Josephson, as an effect of poisoning by sulphuretted hydrogen gas, the action of this substance being exerted on the blood, and especially on the blood-corpuscles. Those who have suffered from it several times say that they first perceive a sweetish taste in the mouth. This is followed by profuse sweating, a general relaxation, and loss of consciousness. When the senses return, severe headache is experienced. Where the quantity of the gas is small, headache is alone produced, or in some persons giddiness, with weakness of the limbs. The most severe symptoms generally occur when the workman goes out of the mine into the fresh air. From eleven cases observed by him, Rawitz thinks that there are only two distinct forms of this affection—the one being of a narcotic kind, with predominant depression of the nervous system, pale and cold face, slow and almost imperceptible respiration, and thready pulse; and the other being attended with excitement and with convulsive symptoms, or even with tetanic spasms. Glass-blowers.—M. Diday (' Gaz. Med. de Lyons,' 1862 ; ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' Jan., 1863, p. 225) draws attention to the frequency with which syphilis is transmitted through the buccal fluids in glass-bloM'ers, who succeed one another quickly in blowing through the same pipe. M. Chassagny therefore recommends that each workman should have an intermediate tube, used by himself alone, and passed into the pipe now employed. Millstone-cutters.—M. Laboulbene ('Gaz. Med.,' 1863, xviii, p. 438) describes the condition of the hands in those whose occupation it is to cut or di'ess millstones. Small particles of st^el, detached from the in- struments which they use, enter the backs of their hands, and especially of the left hand. They lodge in the skin, and even penetrate into tiie subcutaneous tissue; and they form a number of blackish, raised points. Their presence gives rise to no pain or inconvenience. Some striking cases are given, which show that they remain for many yeai's. They were recognised in an old man, set. 67, who was a patient in the Hotel Dieu. He was much surprised at being asked whether he had ever worked in this way, and said that he had done so up to the age of twenty-six years, but not since that time. These metallic particles are not found in all those who dress millstones ; but the length of time during which they remain in the skin might render them of great importance in questions of identity. Stonemasons.—Dr. Greenhow ('Lancet,' 1863, p. 262) gives some cases of bronchitis in stone-dressers, stonemasons, and others. He finds the tincture of larch very useful in these cases. Working in compressed air.—An account of the physiological effects of this employment, as observed by M. Bucquoy, is given in the 'Year-book,' 1862, p. 4. Dr. Foley ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, No. 32) and Sandahl (' Schmidt,' 1863, No. ii, p. 172) give a similar description of them. Drs. Bnbington and Cuthbert (' Dub. Quar. Jour.,' hxxii, p. 312) record six cases in which paralytic symptoms occurred in men who were em-