102 KKPOllT ON PUACTIOAL MEDTCIXK. heart, excited by rheumatism. lie aflirms also that cases of chorea not mifrequeiitly occur in which no other attendant morbid condition can be found than that of valvular disease of the heart. Sometimes such cases happen in individuals belonging to a rheumatic family, and in whom, therefore, the rheumatic diathesis may be assumed to be in some degree operative; sometimes they happen in association with some of the trivial temporary disorders, as worms and the like, which have been mentioned as occasional attendants on chorea. Very often in such cases no evidence of rheumatic tendency can he detected to account for the cardiac disease, nor any proof of the existence of any other ailment likely to explain the chorea. After detailing various points relative to puerperal ciiorea, he relates two cases of this kind in which fibrinous vegetations were found on the aortic and mitral valves. After expressing his opinion that the affec- tion of the valves plays an important part in the chorea, he inquires whe- ther the chorea produces the valvular disease, or vice versd, or whether both are the result of some common cause. He rejects the first view as unsatisfactory, and thinks there are many cases to wliich the third cannot apply. He adopts the second view, viz., that the valvular disease is the medium through which the nervous phenomena are developed in those who by hereditary or acquired tendency are specially predisposed thereto. Partly by the mere circulation of morbid blood through the nervous centres, partly also by temporary obstruction in the minute capillaries, occasioned by fibrinous particles arrested therein, the irritation leading to the development of the choreic or other analogous phenomena may be accounted for. After noticing the general enfeeblement and paresis of the nervous system, he proceeds to remark on the frequency of softening of the nervous centres, which appears always to be of the pale kind. Some- times the spinal cord alone, sometimes the brain alone, or parts of it, sometimes both these nervous centres, are thus affected. He thinks it rea- sonable to believe that some close relation exists between the softening and the chorea. The imperfect nutrition of the nervous centres renders them unduly excitable by even ordinary impressions, and thus predisposed, they are subjected to the additional disturbing influence of blood vitiated and rendered peculiarly irritating by the attendant rheumatic or valvular disease, which thus becomes mainly instrumental in developing the dis- ease. As to treatment, if the diathesis be possibly rheumatic, alkalies should be employed ; in other cases, all means which by promoting a better nutrition may improve the tone of the debilitated nervous system. Chapman, J., M.D.—On a neio Method of Ireating Disease by controlling the Circulation of the Blood in different parts of the Body. Med. Times and Gaz,, July i8th. Chapman claims to have discovei*ed that a controlling power over the circulation of the blood in the brain, in the spinal cord, in the ganglia of the sympathetic system, and through the agency of these nervous centres, also in every other organ of the body, can be exercised by means of cold and heat applied to different parts of the back. In this manner the reflex excitability or cxcito-motor power of the spinal cord, and the contractile force of the arteries in all parts of the body, can be immediately modified. Tn order to lessen the cxcito-motor power of the spinal cord only, he