■1. llEl'OUl' OX I'UYSIOLOUy. rorpusclc3 tilso cliniiged ilicir place, tlio body of llie cell beiug drawn into the projected process, and another projection then being put ibrtli. Ill the course of half an hour a corpuscle would tlius soinetiines traverse the whole licld of the microscope. Besides these moving cells, there aro others of larger size, and having numerous processes—the ordinarily described corpuscles of the cornea; these are immovable. The moving corpuscles pass over them, but always appear distinct irom them ; the former seem to pass, as it were, along the processes of tiie latter, and to be resisted in their progress by tlic liomogeneous sub- stance that lies between them. V. llecklinghausen holds that the locomotion of the corpuscles proves tlie existence of canals with ex- panded interspaces in the substance of the various tissues he examined. He found the peritoneum and pleura in rabbits among the most suitable. In inflammation the moving corpuscles increase in number in the early stage; the immovable ones appear, perhaps, to diminish. Y. Reckling- hausen, however, could not obtain clear evidence that the former were derived from the latter, with or without tlieir subdivision, although he met with various forms that seemed to be intermediate between the two. By excising portions of the cornea in the frog, and placing them ■within the lymph-sac, for from four to eight days, the number of moving corpuscles in them was increased ; and by first using means to cause tlie death of the portion of cornea used, and placing finely powdered cinnabar in the vessel, V. Eecklinghausen convinced himself tliat the fresh corpuscles entered it from without. Like tlie Ama-ba, they took up the coloured fragments into their substance. This fact he thinks of importance, in respect to the process of organization in effused lymph- The possibility is not to be lost sight of that the cells may move into it from the adjacent textures. To test how large the canals through which the cells pass must be, V. Eecklinghausen introduced extremely thin tubes of ivory, filled with u solution of sugar, and closed with collodion, into the lymph-sacs, but neither within them nor within any vegetable substance did any cells make their appearance. The same was the case M'ith moderately firmly coagulated albumen. ]n tliis property of contractility another poiut of resemblance between })us-corpuscles and the colourless corpuscles of the blood is established. The question is raised also, whether many of the cells found on the internal surfaces of the body are not truly such inoving corpuscles which have made their way thither from within; whether, for example, the saliva-corpuscles may not be such. Finally, v. liecklinghauseu is of opinion that the star-formed figures which are obtained by His from connective tissue by the use, first of nitrate of silver, and then by maceration in acids, are not, as he supposes, the corpuscles of the tissue isolated, but that they represent the coagulated albuminous contents of a system of lacuna) with radiating canals. in the same number, p. 237, Yircliow adds a report of similar changes of form which he had some time ago observed in the cells of cartilage and of enchondromatous tumours; from round cells arise numerous branching and interlacing processes, and conversely branching cells gather themselves up into spherical ones.