UEVOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 150 both of the physician and patient good results are often obtained. In adults Trousseau recommends the use of the following powders, which are to be snuffed up the nostrils, after the secretions have been removed by water, twice or thrice daily :—Red or white precipitate gr. v + , powdered sugar 5iv, M. Subnitrate of bismuth, Venetian talc, ana 5iv. M. Chlorate of potash 5 ss, powdered sugar 5iv,M. The bismuth may be used as often as the patient pleases. In children we must have recourse to injections of yellow wash, chlorate of potash, nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper or of zinc. The remedies must often be continued for months without interruption, and when the foetor has been absent four to six weeks the severity of the treatment may be relaxed. Relapses must be expected at the catamenial periods, and on the occurrence of catarrhs. Internally, 01. Morrh., given for a long time, is often useful. Tine. lodinii, i)\v—xv, at meal times, and arsenic appear to be beneficial. In syphilitic ozaena mercury and Pot. lod. are necessary. ' Mackenzie, M., M.D. Lond.—On Functional Aphonia. Med. T. and Gaz., Feb. 2ist; vide also Brit. Med. Jour., Sept. 19th. Mackenzie reports two cases from among others treated successfully by the direct application of galvanism to the larynx. Both patients had previously been subjected to a variety of treatment, including the local application of nitrate of silver, and galvanism externally, but without any advantage. The probang is so contrived that the current does not pass through it until a spring is touched, which completes the connection. Mackenzie states that none of the patients who have come under his ob- servation have been of the hysterical temperament, or shown any of the common and acknowledged phenomena of that disease. The method pursued has been to place one sponge externally over the thyroid, and to apply the others to both vocal cords, and also to the posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilages. Johnson, G., M.D.—Med. T. and Gaz., June 6th. Recommends for the practice of laryngoscopy that the concave reflec- tor should be placed on the forehead, and not in front of one eye. This is very commonly done in Paris. It has the advantage of allowing the free use of both eyes, and of making it much easier to direct the light into the patient's throat, and to practise any other requisite manipulation. The eyes are also better shaded from the direct light of the lamp or of the sun, and a more free movement of the reflector in all directions is obtained. Inhaling a little chloroform has proved useful in subduing the reflex sensibility of the fauces. MoRRELii, Mackenzie, M.D.—Med. T. and Gaz., Aug. 8th. Describes an instrument for supporting the laryngoscope mirror after its introduction into the fauces. The instrument (termed a self-holder) is very easily applied, and easily borne, and is very portable. It consists of a thin plate, which is put into the patient's mouth so as to be on n level with the upper teeth ; on the under surface of the plate is a slight projecting ledge, on which the stem of the mirror, after its introduction into the fauces, can easily be made to rest. The plate is kept in its place I