CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 170/i coarse appearance, the clogged hair-follicles being visible as elongated dots ; most of the hairs are white, thin, and short. In some cases of leprosy there is extensive blanching of the skin, apparently depending on non-formation of the cutaneous pigment. In others there is an opposite condition, viz., a black discoloration. There is no evident connection between the various forms of eruption described above, and a syphilitic taint. Carter is disposed to regard them as allied to the European squamous disease, lepra. The local preferences, he remarks, and the symmetrical arrangement of each are points of accordance. (II) Ances- thetic /e/j?-os?/.—Impairment or loss of the tactile sense is the character- istic feature of this phase of the disease; this, wheti complete, prevents appreciation of temperature or other kinds of irritation. In most cases only the limbs, and particularly their extremities, are affected; next in frequency tlie lobules of the ears and parts of the face, but rarely the trunk. This very remarkable symptom, standing alone as it does, is so far peculiar to leprosy, and the morbid anatomical condition on which it depends is also equally unique. Careful dissection and microscopic investigation has shown that the nerve-trunks alone are primarily diseased, no other tissue in the limb showing traces of change, except as the result of this, and the nervous centres themselves, and the nerve-trunks of healthy parts, remaining unaffected. The result of the loss of sensory nervous influence is remarkable, atrophy and interstitial absorption, take place, leading at length to the total loss of the hands and feet. As to the co7nparative frequency of ansesthetic leprosy, it was found that of 173 cases 60 belonged to this form, 30 to the mixed variety with the tuber- cular, and 47 to a combination with bai'as (the fii'st form). As to the age, when the symptoms commence, it appears that of 60 cases they were observed in more than half under the age of 30, in many under 20, in comparatively few under 40. Sex.—Males suffer much more frequently than females, and the same is the case with tubercular leprosy, hardly so with baras. As to occupation, several were fishermen, many ryots; all live more or less on dried or salt fish and rice. The duration of the disease varies according to its intensity, from three to thirty years and upwards. The natural mode of termination does not appear to be uniform ; generally some exhausting disease, often dysentery, carries off the patient, occasionally fever and albuminuria. Neither fever nor syphilitic taint is common, but an hereditary predisposition is undeniable ; it was acknowledged in about twenty-three out of forty-eight cases of all kinds. The disease does not appear to be contagious. As to the symp- toms, it has been stated that hypei-Bcsthesia was common at the com- mencement of the disease, but Carter has never been able to discover it. Local sensations of a burning, pricking, or shooting pain, susceptibility to cold, &c., are not uncommon in the fingers and toes; and there may co- exist tenderness on pressure and shooting pains in the course of the ulnar and median nerves, these symptoms never extending upwards beyond the seat of lesion, and to this the local tenderness may be limited, e.g. just above the wrist, or less often at the bend of the elbow, for the median nerves, behind the inner condyle for the ulnar, and behind the inner malleolus for the posterior tibial. General aching, wearing pains in the limbs, are sometimes complained of; or a sense of weakness, the