884 IIEPOJIT ON MIDWIFERY, KTC. often result, sufliciently explain why the Ctesarean section should be preferred. Professor i?ajot, however, uses the cephalotribe with suc- cess in cases where the contraction measures only one and a quarter inch. As soon as tlie os is sufficiently open to admit the instrument, the cephalotribe should be applied, witli the head fixed by pressure in the hypogastrium, and the handles of the instrument carried well back- wards, and the blades pushed as deeply as possible, so as to bury the joint in the orifice of the vagina. All this is necessary to crush the base of the skull. On this first cephalotripsy the success of the whole operation depends. The first crushing effected, a movement of rotation is made with the instrument, in order to place the lessened dimen- sions of the head in the contracted diameter of the pelvis, carefully moving to the right or left to find the direction where there is most room. If thei-e be any resistance, rotation must be desisted from altogether. The uterus almost always moulds the new form tiius given to the head by crushing to the shape of the canal, by imparting that rotation which was difficult with the instruments. The head having been crushed as much as it can be, the instrument is disjointed and withdrawn icithout having exercised any traction. A second, and, if ne- cessary, a third introduction and crushing is efiected, but always loithout traction. The patient is then left. According to her condition, M. Pajot repeats the crushings every two, three, or four liours; and the head being well broken up, one or two more crushings will generally suffice for the trunk. The distinguishing character of this operation is the absence of all traction, the object being to effect the progressive dimi- nution of the parts in proportion as the uterine contractions mould the crushed head, and so direct it in the direction most favorable to enable it to pass through the contractions. The author relates 7 cases in which this method was practised. In 4 of these the autero-posterior diameter measured only six centimetres (about two and a quarter inches) ; and in the 3 remaining cases the contraction was less than two inches. In 6 cases the foetus was expelled, in 1 the woman died un- delivered, and another died after the operation. The remaining 5 recovered. (' Brit, and For. Med.-Chii-. Eev.,' July, 1863.) PAET II.—DISEASES OE WOMEN. PHTSIOLOGX. Dr. Lissuer records a case of congenital absence of the uterus. The patient, set. 35, was married thirteen years, without children. Men- struation had never appeared, but molimina menstrualia had recurred every three weeks from her seventeenth year. With a catheter in the bladder and the finger in the rectum, no intervening body could be felt; and in spite of the periodical molimina, no swelling was found above the vagina (hajmatometra), the pelvis resembled that of the male, and there was complete sac-shaped closing of the vagina. (' Mon. f. Geb.,' December, 1862.)