381 TUBNING. without, and were amongst the most successful. Twenty cases are related, including eight of placenta prfevin, as illustrative of the author's mode of version ; all were cases of great urgency, and in most, the old method of version would not have been practicable. In one case of profuse accidental haemorrhage, transfusion was employed with so good a result, that version was performed in half a minute, and delivery accomplished, but the patient, unfortunately, died from exliaustion half an hour afterwards. The advantages of this method of turning are summed up by the author under two heads—(<?) those of avoidance, and (b) those of acqui- sition. (a) We avoid the addition of the hand, and perhaps of the arm to the uterine contents, with the present and future chances of irritation caused by it; the entry of air into the uterus; the liability to rupture of the uterus, the pressure being opposite to that of the ordinary method; much of the pain and distress felt by the patient in the old plan; much of the fatigue and distress felt by the operator by the pressure of the uterus during contractions, and the increase of collapse by the presence of the hand in cases of severe exhaustion. (b) On the other hand, we shall gain—i, The opportunity of cor- recting malpresentations as soon as they are recognised; 2, the capa- bility of early delivery; 3, the opportunity of using the child as a compress in placenta praevia; 4, the capability of version at a time when the old method is impracticable; 5, the opportunity of producing cephalic version much more readily than formerly. The difficulties liable to occur in performing this plan of turning are -.—first, the doubling up of the foetus upon itself, as in protracted transverse presentations, especially where the arm has been long pro- lapsed. If to this condition be added a very active uterus, the diffi- culty is still further increased, and here the breech should be depressed as much as possible externally, and the hand introduced as far as is necessary to reach the knee, which, by the eflFort, has generally been brought down at least half the distance towards the cervix. Second. The firm and active contraction of the uterus upon the foetus. Here chloroform should be inhaled to its full extent, and should it suspend uterine action for only a few minutes, in the majority of cases version may be effected without the hand in the uterus, except in the first-men- tioned cases. A fourth difficulty may be the excessive mobility of the cliild, which is seldom met with m labour at full term, but will be found in premature labour, especially if the child be already dead; and this diffi- culty may be increased by excess of liquor amnii, which, however may at once be removed by rupturing the membranes. The operation should he perfo7'med methodicalli/, and without any confusion or hum/ No indications of metritis have ever been seen by the author after this plan of version, and if such a sequel threaten, the j^ressure required and the kind of motion to be produced, will not have been understood! Dr. Hicks believes that the above mode of version will succeed in " c per cent, of all the cases requiring it, and the earlier it is performed the greater will be the resulting success.