59 GENERAL SYSTEM. 2'', and 30 clays in 3 cases, and in the remaining 2 cases the duration ■was in one case 415, and in the other 56 days. The mean duration was a small fraction under 26 days. The duration from convalescence to the date of discharge, or complete recoverj% varied from 5 to 27 days. The mean duration was a fraction over 16 days. The time in hospital varied from 12 to 50 days, the mean being a fraction over 30 days. These results go to show considerable diversity as regards the intrinsic tendency of the disease to end after a certain period. They show, how- ever, tliat the disease does end from self-limitation after a duration vary- ing in different cases. They go to show also that the mean duration with- out curative treatment cannot greatly exceed the average length of the disease when active measures are employed with a view of controlling it. Under the head of the number of joints affected, after detailing those that were affected in each case, Flint states that he does not think that his cases were worse off than those treated in the usual way; and with regard to the intensity of the articular affection, he holds the same opinion. An endocardial or bellows murmur existed in 11 of the 13 cases; but as it was limited to the base of the heart in all but 3 cases, Flint does not consider that it resulted from endocarditis. He thinks that such a murmur will be found in the majority of cases, especially in females (all Flint's were females but two), if a careful examination be made with Camman's stethoscope. He has also been led to doubt whether a mur- mur at the apex and over the body of the heart, developed in the course of rheumatism, is to be regarded in itself as sufficient evidence of endo- carditis. A murmur in these situations may be developed and disappear during convalescence; this was observed in one of the 3 cases in which a murmur existed at the apex. There is reason to believe that murmurs here, as well as at the base, may be of haemic origin. To be evidence of endocarditis, a murmur must be mitral, developed under observation, per- sisting and having a certain degree of intensity, and it should be associated with pain or uneasiness in the precordia, tenderness, and greater disturb- ance of the heart's action than is consistent with the febrile movement belonging to the rheumatism. BoucHTJT—Jour, de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., Aug., 1863. Relates the case of a child, set. 5 years, who had hydrothorax of the right side, followed by acute articular rheumatism. The child was treated with a combination of veratria and opium, about one tenth of a grain of each, in a pill; two of which were given the first day, three the second, four the third. In four days the pulse had fallen to 56, and the hydro- thorax and the articular pains had completely yielded. Fuller, H. W.—Clinical Lectures on Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, and Sciatica. Lancet, Jan. 24th, 31st. Sept. 26th. Tn subacute rheumatism Fuller gives guaiacum. Pot. Carb., Pot. lod., and Pot. Acet. In cases of inactivity of the skin and liver hot-air baths and mercurial purgatives are essential. In cases of exhaustion tonics must be administered. Chronic rheumatism Fuller believes is often de- pendent on a different materies morbi from that which gives rise to acute rheumatism, and its treatment must consequently be different. Periosteal