JIEPOllT ON PHACTICAI. MEDICINE. Wagner, E.—On Syphiloma of the Nervous System, Arcli. d. Heilk., iv, 1863. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 118, p. 40. Wftgner notices the occurrence of these tumours in the dura mater, the pill muter, and the cerebral substance. In the latter situation they are probably much more frequent than lias been supposed, lie thinks that most of the so-called cerebral tubercles, occurring without any trace of tuberculosis in other parts, especially when they are connected with the pia mater, are of syphilitic nature, and this even when there are no other manifest signs of syphilis. Wagner has met with an instance in which the spinal cord was affected, but not one in which the nerves were. Laborde.—On the Alterations produced by Aye in the Capillaries of the Brain, and on their relation to Senile llamollissement. Gaz. de Paris, 26, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 182. Laborde examined the changes taking place in the ccrebi'al capillaries of old persons dying with softening of the brain, and found four degrees of morbid affection. In the first one the wall only presents a beaded dila- tation ; in the second the dilatation becomes general, and translucent depo- sits appear in the wall; iu the third the capillaries become prodigiously enlarged, and their wail is almost entirely occupied by the above-men- tioned fatty and calcareous deposits, which also penetrate into the interior of the vessels and blend with the remains of blood-globules; in the fourth degree the vessels burst, and only their debris are visible. This degene- ration of capillaries is more frequent in the cortical layer of the hemi- spheres than in the thalami optici and corpora striata, the crura cerebri, and the pons. In order to ascertain the ages at which these changes commenced, Laborde examined the brains of 60 children, 60 individuals between 15 and 5^ years of age, and 100 from 55 to 100. The result is as follows :—(i) Up to 45 years of age the capillaries of normal brains show no important change. Until the third or fourth year of life there are certainly found, especially in the cortical substance, beaded dilatations, with scattered deposits and enlargement of the nuclei in the wall, but as these are not found at a later period, they are doubtless connected with development. (2) After the fifty-fifth year it is usual to find the first two grades of vascular alterations, sometimes also the third, and almost invariably the first. (3) These changes arc especially marked in the cerebral cortex and in the corpus striatum and thalami optici, but occur also iu the rest of the brain. (4) Between the fortieth and fifty-fifth years it is exceptional to meet with the above changes. This is remarkable, because during the very same period the arteries at the base are very frequently atheromatous. Even after the fiftjf-fifth year alterations in the capillaries do not necessarily coincide with atheroma (of the larger vessels), so that it appears that the two sets of vessels are independently affected. (5) Wasting of the nervous elements in the vicinity of the diseased capillaries especially proceeds ^Jori passu with the vascular dege- neration. Meynert, Tii.—Case of Abscess in the Pons Varolii. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., ix, 24, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 183.