175 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. that tricliinsc 'were the cause of the disorder, yet, as Meissncr regards it as almost certain, it seems -worthy of consideration whether some obscure quasi-catarrho-rheumatic affections in our own country may not liave a similar origin.—Ed.] In a communication from Prof. Zenker C'Ber. d. Ges. f. Natur. u. Heilkunde in Dresden,' 1861—1862, p. 49) it is stated that three persons—a husband, wife, and niece—living together, were suddenly attacked with pain of all the muscles, paralysis, and other symptoms of trichinfe disease. The parasites were detected in some recently killed pork of which they had partaken, and also in their stools. Purging was adopted with advantage. The earlier this measure is put in force the better, but it results from various experiments with rabbits that it may be beneficial as late as the eleventh week. Fiedler ('Virchow's Arch.,'p. 573, 1863) states that he has repeated Friedreich's experiments with picro-nitrate of potash on trichinised rabbits, but has arrived at contrary results. He finds that the drug has no effect what- ever on the parasites, whether they are in the intestines or in the muscles; that it does not impede the migration of the embryos or arrest their development. In fact, it killed, if given in large doses, as nine or ten grains, the rabbits instead of the trichinse. Ogle, J. D., M.D.—Observations on the Treatment of Tcenia, especially hy the use of the Oil of Male Fern. Brit. Med. J., March 14th. Ogle gives twentj'-four cases in which this drug was at any rate most useful in causing the death and expulsion of long lengths of the worm, extending in two instances to twenty-four and thirty yards. The ages of the patients varied from three and a half to fifty-seven years. It does not appear that the head was found in any case. In most cases the action of the remedy upon the patient was neither troublesome or dis- agreeable. Ogle has used other vermicides, as Kameela, Kousso, Kottleria tinctoria, and Santonine, but none have given such good results as male fern. Three cases are mentioned in which it evidently was more efficient than turpentine. Laval.—On the Influence of Intestinal Worms on the course of Malarious Fever. Gaz. d'Orient, 7th Oct., 1858. Schmidt's Jahrbuch, vol. 119, p. 54. Laval states—(i) That intestinal worms only produce intermittent symptoms when the patient is under the influence of malaria. (2) They form a grave complication, (3) Quinine is not of decided efficacy until the worms have been expelled. The ascaris lumbricoides was the species present in Laval's cases. Santonine was given with good effects. Traube, L.—Deutsche Klinik, 6, 1863. Schmidt' s Jahrb., vol. 110. p. 88. ' ^' Affirms that colic pains are produced by the strong peristaltic action of portions of intestine situated above some obstructed part. The con- tractions come on periodically, and cause considerable tension of the wall of the bowel, which is unable to drive on its contents. Hence the pains.