835 OUTHOPiEDIC STJEGEEY. to ignore the cause, in fact; and to treat the affection entirely irre- spective of cause and position, so that—whether the curve be primary or consecutive—whether it depend on affection of a lower extremity, or on the use of an upper extremity, the dorsal curve is treated without reference to cause or consequences, without knowledge; and, I might say, without honesty, until it has become matter of doubt, among members of the profession even, whether spinal curvature is curable. " Spinal curvature is curable, but only when all the circumstances which gave rise to it are taken into consideration. " In Lecture IV an instance of spinal curvature is represented in fig. 6, which is a sigmoid curve, consisting of a primary lumbar curve and a consecutive dorsal curve; and the cause of the lumbar curve is obliquity of the pelvis, occasioned by genu valgum. The ordinary treatment of such a case would consist of a spinal instrument to act on the convexity of the dorsal curve, with, perhaps, a second plate to act on the lumbar curve. Let no one suppose, however, that such treat- ment would be effectual to remove the spinal distortion. Not only would it not be removed, but distortion would increase, notwith- standing that the spinal instrument might be worn so long as the cause remained. The treatment should first be directed to the cause of curvature, namely, to the knee. For until the inversion of the knee is removed, the spinal distortion must remain. In this instance the treatment was as follows. An apparatus was applied to the leg to restore the straight line of the limb, the recumbent position was much observed, and slight pressure was made on the lower part of the lumbar curve, while the dorsal curve was supported. " Again, fig. 7 illustrates a case in which the pelvis was rendered oblique through standing much on one foot, and where, consequently, was developed a strongly marked lumbar curve, which was compensated by a dorsal curve. In this instance, as in the last, it was necessary first to remove the cause by obliging the patient to recline in a spinal chair during several hours in the day. When this first point had been accomplished, the removal of the lumbar curve was easy; and, as would be expected, the dorsal or compensating curve was removed even before the primary curve. Thus the recumbent posture must be considered a very important adjunct to other and more direct treat- ment in all those cases which depend primarily on affections of the lower extremities. " The cause of lateral curvature is rarely to be found in the spine itself Generally it must be sought for remotely ; or the cause may be, as it often is, general debility, when the spine partakes with the rest of the organism. "Nothing has been more abused than the mechanical treatment of spinal curvature. Let the case be curable or incurable, and let dis- tortion arise from whatever cause, the treatment in each instance has been the same. Common sense alone would indicate that, in the treat- ment of spinal curvature, the primary curve should first be acted on • and, further, that it ia of little use to act on this primary curve without first attending to the cause which gave rise to the curvature."