176^ CTJTA>^EOUS SYSTEir. were asthma, acute rheumatism, furuncles, tonsillitis, pain in the head, chorea, htemoptysis. In four fifths of the cases the winter caused an aggravation of the disease, in one fifth the summer. In treatment, tar seems to have been used very frequently as an external application ; one very obstinate case of ecz. impetiginod. was cured by mercurial ointment rubbed in till it caused salivation. Internally iodine, mercury, iron, anti- mony, cod-liver oil were employed, arsenic but rarely.—Herpes chronicus was treated by mercurial inunction, counter-irritation, or cauterization. Pemphigus chronicus was best treated by a prolonged arsenical course, in the form of the Asiatic pills. It is considered to depend on a gouty dyscrasia from the excess sometimes of uric acid, sometimes of ammonia, sometimes of corabiniitions of chlorine in the urine. Impetigo is not classed with eczema; its pustules are said to be distinguished from the vesicles of the latter by containing fibrine, phosphates of oily matter, and carbonate of soda. It is almost always dependent on scrofulosis. Of Pityriasis, 19 cases were all cured, the treatment consisting in the use of potash soap, tar ointment, diluted solutions of caustic potash, or chloride of zinc. 0?psoriasis, there were 145 cases, of which 125 were cured, 19 improved, i proved refractory. Hereditary tendency had a marked in- fluence, as mostly the same eruption, more rarely an allied one, had existed in the parents or grandparents. Of acquired disease, haemor- rhoids and scrofula were those which had most causative effect. Whilst inherited tuberculosis disposes to very obstinate secondary and tertiary- syphilis, persons affected with hereditary psoriasis usually remain exempt from the latter. Arthritic psoriasis is sometimes attended with itching. Arsenic in non-specific psoriasis was the chief remedy, with tar ointment, vapour and potash baths externally. Ichthyosis (twelve cases) was always congenital, and in eight of these hereditary influence was apparent, mostly in the paternal hne. Shortly after birth, it has some resemblance to pemphigus. Vaccination seldom succeeds in the ichthyotic. Lichen is said to be hereditary," mostly very obstinate, and prone^to relapse; its treatment is the same as that of eczema. Prurigo is treate'd by the appli- cation of potash soap for many weeks, or by baths of Hyd. Bichl. to sali- vation. Mild thermae, as those of Schlangenbad, or Leukerbad, are useful, also alkaline baths and cold packings and washings. Chronic viiliaria occurred in six cases, five of which were cured, one dismissed on account of dropsy. The outbreak of the eruption is preceded by morning sweats, followed by extreme oppression and high fever. Before the first eruption has got well, a fresh one begins, with the same phenomena. The perspiration is highly acid; after the eruption, albumen is found in the urine. Quinine is to be given internally, and solution of caustic potash (gj ad Ib.j) to be rubbed in externally. Ephidrosis.—A. case of profuse sweatmg of the head and neck during eating was improved by the use of sage tea with acids, and rubbing with Spirit. Camphorse and vmegar. Acne rosacea is almost always hereditary, in the author's expe- rience it is rarely produced by chronic disorders of the stomach, and never by alcohohc excess, over-eating, or want of cleanliness. 'Acne tuberculata is treated by hard rubbing of the infiltrated parts with small brushes dipped in green soap, followed by lotions of Sodse Garb., borax Tr. Benzoes, sulphur suspended in spirit. Seborrhoea occurred in ei^-ht