'130 nEPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND SIATEIUA. MEDICA. Poster find no evidence of the existence of more than one form, wliicli corresponds to the first of those described by Wertheim. Its composi- tion is ll.jjj N0,4. It contains the elements of meconin, C,,,, H,,, 0^, and of cotarninc, II,.j NOg. Prof. Albers, of Bonn (Virchow's ' Archiv,' xxvi, p. 225) has made a series of experiments upon the physiological action of the different prin- ciples contained in opium. In these observations doses of about a grain were introduced beneath the skin of the back or thigh in frogs. His conclusions are as follows: 1. Morphia, porphyroxin, codeia, narceine, and thebaina, produce violent and even tetanic spasms, and an exaltation of the sensibility. The convulsions caused by thebaina are especially violent and pro- longed. The two frogs experimented on lay for twenty-four hours in a state of spasm.- Neither morphia nor codeia has been observed to produce similar effects. Death also occurs later under the influence of thebaina than when the other substances are employed. This appears to depend upon the fact that this agent does not exalt the sensibility so much, so that exhaustion does not come on so soon. Porphyroxin and papaverine produce especially hyperffisthesia, this being a more prominent effect of their action than spasm. 2. Meconin, narcotine, and meconic acid, on the other hand, produce less spasm and hyperaesthesia, but their administration is rapidly fol- lowed by insensibility. The effects of narcotine especially are the very opposite of those of thebaina. It quickly prodvices loss of sensibility, with paralysis and relaxation of the muscles. The only spasm caused by it is a strong, very limited tonic convulsion, appearing among the later symptoms. Meconic acid has a similar action ; it causes transient spasm, affecting principally the thigh in which the poison was placed ; it also produces, at first, a very slight hypertesthesia. These phenomena quickly subside, and ai'e followed by insensibility and paralysis. It is also much more slowly absorbed, and its effects are more quickly re- covered from than any of the other constituents of opium. Twice as much of it is required to destroy life as of morphia. The convulsions caused by morphia and thebaina are ascribed by Albers partly to the direct action of the poison on the muscles while cir- culating in the blood, partly to reflex action due to the hyperfesthesia. That they are in part produced in the fi^rst of these ways is shown by the fact that they do not altogether cease in limbs when the connections of their nerves with the spinal cord have been completely cut through. Albers thinks that there is yet another way in which convulsions are pro- duced by these agents, namely, by the direct action of the poison upon the spinal and cerebral centres, exciting them to produce spasm of the muscles. He argues to this conclusion from the facts that all the limbs are often convulsed at the same instant, and that the pupils are contracted. 3. Opium, as well as the acid and bases derived from it, produce more rapid exhaustion of the susceptibility of the nerves to the influence of galvanism than any other poisons, coniine alone excepted. As soon as the spasmodic movements of the muscles cease, it is found to be im- possible to excite them to contraction by any electrical irritation. This