GLAUCOMA. 255 Calabar bcah.-I>. A. llobertson ('Edinb. Med. Jouru., vui, 810, and ' Ophth. Hosp. Eep,.' iv, 38). T. R. Praser (ib., ix. 36, &c.). D. Hanbury C Brit. Med. JourD.,' 1863, ii, 239). G. Harley (ib., 262). T Nuuuele3% on its use in prolapsus of the iris ('Lancet, 1863,11, 65). C. J. Workman ('Opbtli. Hosp. Rep.,' iv, 112). J. W. Ogle, the Calabar bean paper (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 673). A. von Urate ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 285). , /<T^ ^ , Zens—Vrof. Axlt, on the causes of failure in extraction ('Deutsclie Klin.,' 1862, p. 474). A. von Grafe, clinical lecture on extraction in inarastic eyes, &c. ('Eliu. Monatsbl. f. Augenh.,' i, 172, 185). T. ■Windsor, on the use of forceps in extraction (' Brit, and For. Med.- Chir. Rev.,' vol. xxxii, p. 219). J. Jacobson, a new and innocuous opera- tion for cataract (Berl., Peters). GLATJCOMA. J. H. A. Haffmans has published (Diss., Utrecht, and'Arch. f. Ophth. vol. viii, part 2, p. 124) an exposition of the views and experience of Prof. Douders with reference to glaucoma. In his sketch of the history he shows that "Weller was the first to give a good account of the symp- toms ; that Mackenzie in 1830 had perceived the importance of the increased tension of the eye; that E. Jager, in 1854, drew and described the peculiar appearance of the entrance of the optic nerve ; that a very little later, von Grafe gave a still more accurate account of the oph- thalmoscopic manifestations; that he added the fresh and very im- portant symptom of arterial pulsation, traced the change in the optic disc to excavation, and finally referred, with success, the whole of the symptoms to one origin, that of increased pressure in the vitreous space (see the translation of his essays. New Syd. Soc, 1859). Prof. Donders distinguishes only tvro principal forms of this afiection— glaucoma simplex and glaucoma cum ophthalmia. The former is the typical form. "Whilst the globe increases in hardness, the papilla of the optic nerve becomes excavated, the vessels become displaced along the margin of the disc, gentle pressure induces arterial pulsation, the anterior chamber is lessened in size, the power of accommodation is lost, the field of %'ision becomes contracted, and its acuteuess diminished. In typical cases the increased tension persists, the excavation increases, the arteries become very small, and complete blindness is the result. Throughout the course of the disease every symptom is the necessary and immediate consequence of the increased intraocular pressure. The media may remain transparent even for years after the occurrence of total blindness. Ciliar neuroses occasionally occur, yet never to a high degree. Inflammatory symptoms are entirely absent. Coloured halos around flames are rarely seen. The subconjunctival vessels become somewhat enlarged; the sclerotic continues white; the cornea smooth and brilliant, though less sensitive; the pupil dilated and fixed; the iris scarcely changes, however, in colour or tissue. Such an uncom- plicated course is, however, somewhat uncommon ; out of eighty-two eyes which had been blinded by glaucoma, seventy-three had presented inflammatory symptoms. On the other hand, we often meet with this form in the commencement of the disease; thus, in more than thirty