387 DISEASES OF THE CHILD IMPEDING DELIVEUY. Dr. Bavues relates a ease of hypertrophic elongation of the cemi uteri, iu w hich cauterization failed. Amputation was performed by Dr. Marion Sims' method, with successful result. (' Med. Times and Gaz., vol. i, 1863, p. 7.) ^ M. Jobert distinguishes between congenital elongation and hyper- trophy of the cervix from disease, and recommends cauterization by the hot iron, especially for the first condition. ('L'Union Med.,' Julj, 1863.) VERSIONS OF THE UTERUS. INVEESIOIf. We extract the following from Dr. G-raily Hewitt's work on ' Diseases of "Women,' p. 266. Inversion of the uterus generally occurs in connection with child-birth, but sometimes quite independently of pregnancy, being caused by the presence of a large polypus dragging down the fundus. The inversion may be partial or complete. If com- plete and recent, the diagnosis is not usually difficu^lt. A tumour is felt in the vagina, which varies in size according to the degree of the inversion, and the time since its occurrence. This tumour is smooth, hard, uniform, and without any opening on the surface, which is per- fectly continuous with that of the vagina. At the point corresponding to the OS uteri this pyriform tumour projects downwards into the vagina. If the patient have been recently delivered, if a tumour have occupied the vagina since delivery, and if it be known that no tumour existed previously, then the case will not be doubtful. There is no possibility in complete inversion of passing the finger above the pedicle of the tumour, nor can the uterine sound pass in this direction. The symptoms are variable, unless the inversion be acute, and sometimes do not attract attention until the disease has lasted some time. Inversion of the uterus has been frequently regarded and treated as polypus, and the difierential diagnosis is sometimes obscure. In both cases the tumour is generally more or less pyriform, hard, resistant, and smooth, and in both it termi- nates above in a constricted portion; in both, hasmorrhage and leucorrhoea are present, with symptoms produced by pressure on the adjacent viscera, but in the case of inversion, neither the sound nor the finger can be passed upwards beyond the pedicle of the tumour, whereas in the case of a polypus projecting into the vagina, the uterine sound can be made to pass beyond the neck of the tumour, which is encircled by the 08 uteri, into the interior of the uterus. The introduction of the sound into the uterus is not, always, however, an easy matter, and the only positive means of ascertaining the true condition is by intro- ducing a sound into the bladder and the finger into the rectum, when the absence of the body of the uterus will be perceptible. In cases of partial inversion the difficulty of diagnosis is even greater. Dr. M'Clintock points out this additional symptom. By making downward traction on the tumour the lip formed by the os disappears, while on ceasing the traction the lip is again evident. In many cases the closest examination will be necessary to solve the difficulty. Dr. M'Clintock