289 DIAGNOSIS OF HERNIA. by the patient; she was iminediately attacked with abdomiiial pains, constipation, nausea, and vomiting. The matters vomited were of a greenish colour, and had not the smell of intestinal fluids; such arc simple bilious vomitings, and occur in inflammations of the abdomen; they are composed of a transparent, colourless fluid, which contains, as a precipitate, a layer of greenish-coloured mucus. The vomiting was accompanied by a complete stoppage of the bowels, by a tense and tympanitic state of the belly, so that the intestinal coils could be seen through the walls of the abdomen. Every part of the belly, but espe- cially the supra- and infra-umbilical regions, became painful. Such were the local symptoms presented by our patient. AVe also found a notable alteration in the countenance; a slate colour of the face, which might be compared to the cyanotic hue in cholera, an appearance of the same kind on the back of the hands, and a slight diminution in the tempera- ture ; the latter change could be most readily perceived in the ex- tremities, at the end of the nose, the fingers, or the tongue, where the quantity of arterial blood is not sufficient to keep the temperature as high as in more central parts. This is a bad sign,—it shows us that the haematosis is imperfect, and that the process of calorification is not following its regular course. She also complained of pains in the groin, where there was a swelling of the size of a little orange. This swelling, which was diagnosed as a femoral hernia, presented some peculiarities as to its position. It appeared to be placed above the inguino-crural fold, and to rest rather on the abdominal wall than on the thigh ; it seemed even to pass to some extent into the greater labium of the same side, just as an inguinal hernia. On the other hand, there were reasons for believing the hernia to be femoral. Thus, to arrive at an exact determination of the nature of the tumour, it became necessary to analyse the symptoms which we have described, and to fix with precision the position of the hernia, which seemed, as we have mentioned, to encroach on the abdominal wall. M._ Nivet, an old interne of the Hotel Dieu, has established, that in the diagnosis of a hernia the points to be determined—the veritable laud- marks—are the bones, the fixed parts of the pelvis, and not the external soft parts. In fact, in oldish persons, especially if they have been stout Avhen young, as our patient, the soft parts at the lower part of the ab- domen become lax and pendulous; the mens veneris is, so to say, prolapsed forwards and downwards, and becomes located lower than the symphysis pubis. In our case the symphysis is placed very much higher than would be supposed from simply examining the position of the mons veneris and of tlie hairs; the latter, indeed, are much below the brim of the true pelvis. When, however, we carefully marlted by palpation the pubic symphysis, and drew a line from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubis, we saw clearly that the hernia was placed below it. In short, you must always deter- mine the position of the pubic symphysis, and liot let yourselves be led into error by depression of the mons veneris; you must see whether the tumour IS above or below a line drawn from the anterior superior spinous pi-ocess of the ilium to that of the pubis. It is of great importance to call the surgeon's attention to the errors of diagnosis which may arise 19