UEPORT ON SUUOEliy. 106 writers in a diftereut sense ; but there is no reason for calling efl'iibeJ lymph on a bono a secondary symptom, and eftused lymph of the same character in the liver a tertiary condition ; and that it is altogether an assumption to infer that the latter affection occurs at a much later pei-iod than the former; indeed as the cliauges are precisely similar, there are good grounds for supposing that they both occur at the same time. iSyphilis being a constitutional disease, a patient cannot be said to be affected by it till some proof of general infection is afforded ; a ])rimary sore alone is therefore not syphilis at all—it is iiot till the peculiar depo- sition of fibro-plastic elements, causing induration, talces place, that the patient can be considered to have syphilis. A sure no more meAis syphilis than the bite of a mad dog means hydrophobia, unless the system be infected. It would be better if the terms primary and secondary were abandoned, and the simple term syphilis used instead. " What is meant hy tertiari/ sj/pJiilis.—If the so-called secondary syphilis, or that which is simply syphilis, possesses certain characteristic phenomena, Ave have a means of recognising its existence; and if, therefore, we find such phenomena classified amongst the tertiary or ulterior changes of the disease, we must replace them in their proper position. Writers, however, have not only spoken of changes already alluded to as being sometimes secondary and sometimes tertiary, but they have referred to other totally difi'ereut morbid conditions under these names, and which, therefore, clearly require separation. These I shoidd regard as the ulterior results of syphilis, not immediately de- pendent upon it, although induced by it. They are difterent from the peculiar eflects of syphilis already spoken of, and can only be regarded as the sequela?. Any form of cachexia, indeed, may produce them, although it is especially those parts which have been in the first place aftected by syphilis which suft'er, and thus it is not so much the character of the change which denotes the syphilitic origin as the site of the disease. Thus, the bones are affected in syphilis in a jnanner which is generally characteristic; but if from any cause the patient fall into a bad state of health, an extensive caries or necrosis of the ordinary kind may result. The first change is syphilitic, the second is a sequela of syphilis. Several cutaneus aflections resembling these sequeke ma}'^ occur under various circumstances, as, for example, ecthyma and rupia in impoverished strumous children. So also the syphilitic disease of the larynx may proceed under certain circumstances to disease of the cartilages, but the latter may occur independently of the syphilitic taint. Besides these aggravated diseases, arising in organs first affected under the influence of the venereal poison, but which have ceased to be syphilitic, and therefore to be regarded as the sequela} rather than results of a tertiary stage, there are other changes in the organs which have received a considerable share of attention of late years. I refer to the lardaceous or waxy disease of the viscera. In persons who have been worn out by syphilitic disease, and been suffering long from a resulting cachectic liabit, such state of organs may be very fairly predicted to be present; but they arc by no means evidence that syphilis luis existed, since they occur in cachexia arising from other causes. They are constantly fouud in yoiuig scrofulous subjects who have long been ill witli some local disease, as of a joint or a bone, and therefore