GENERAL SYSTEM. 49 niul 18 severely so. In no case did a case of each type come fi'om the same liouse. Tlie treatment mostly pursued was supporting and symp- tomatic; one physician, however, gave an emetic at tirst, and afterwards quinine in doses' of 3], o. honi, ad tres vices; subsequently gr. ij, 4tis Loris. This plan did not seem advantageous. BtcuANAN, G.—On recent Typhus in Lancashire. Brit. Med. Journ., March 14th. Since tlie great typhus epidemic iu Lancashire at the time of the Irish famine in 1847-48, there has been scarcely any of this disease in the cotton towns. Typhoid has, however, prevailed, and been often returned to the registrar as typhus. In 1862, however, positive macu- lated typhus has made its appearance. The disease has been most preva- lent at Preston, and next at Manchester, and has also appeared in other places. The origin seems traceable to overcrowding of human beings together in a state of destitution and semi-starvation. The epidemic began to subside at the very time that the condition of the people began to improve, as shown by the diminished numbers in receipt of relief. IMautyn, S.—On ihe recent occurrence of Typhus Fever in Bristol. Brit. Med. Journ., July iith. Mariyn stales that at least 35 cases of veritable typhus have occurred in Bristol during November and December, 1862, and January, 1863. Six at least died. Tiiose remedies did most good which relieved the head ; and in severe cases the cerebral symptoms were paramount. Thus, a raised position, shaving the head, leeches on the temples, cold tc the scalp, antimony, purgatives, warmth to the extremities—all did good. Siimuiants could by no means be used indiscriminately. Quinine appa- rently distressed the cerebral circulation. Opium sometimes aided sleep, but rarely. Chambers, T. K.—Brit, and For. Med. Rev., Oct., 1863. Reports that he has treated, during twelve years, at Saint Mary's Hospital, 230 cases of continued fever. Of these, 109 were treated on what he calls general principles, i. e., with nt-utral salines, ter vel quater die, small doses once or twice a day of Ilydr. Greta, at first, and subsequently with bark, ammonia, and wine, when tiie symptoms required it. The others were treated with liquid animal food every two hour.s, and a dose of dilute muriatic acid. Of the first group there died 21, exclusive of 2 who succumbed speedily after admission ; and of the second, 3, exclusive of i djing in the same way. The mean period of convalescence was shortened in tl)e subjects of the acid treatment by two and a half days. Chambers ascribes the greater success of the acid treat- ment to the improved condition of the digestive mucous membranes. He thinks ipecacuau emetics sometimes cut short the fever. Rknsiiaw, C. J.—Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 31st. Records three cases of smallpox, not confluent, which were treated with dc-cociion of Sarracenia purpurea, apparently with decided benefit. One had not been vaccinated. There was no pitting iu any. 4