200 IIKPOIIT OX SUIiGKUY. v.ow growtli, iiud the lymph or fibre will be found i-adiatiug into the umscular tissue around. Thus it is that tlie surgeon meets with such difRcuIty in his attcmjjt to remove these tumours by operation ; instead of their turning out as an ordinary new growth would do, these have to be actually cut out. If not absorbed by remedies, they become ver3' linrd, and theu more circumscribed, and remain inert for many years. " In the liver the same process occurs. In this organ the fibroid nodules are not seen, as a rule, until after some years of their exist- ence. _ They are then hard, more or less circumscribed, but found shooting out their fibrous rays into the surrounding hepatic tissue. In this case, also, owing to the contraction which takes place, there is often left a remarkable cicati-iform appearance on the surface. It is this exudation of lymph or fibro-plastic material and subsequent con- traction which poculiarises the disease; thus, in the pharynx and larynx, not only is there an ulceration, but an induration at the edges and base of the ulcer, formed by the same material, and in the case of the larynx there may be sometimes found a simple fibroid deposit, without ulceration. In the bone a similar exudation occurs in the canals, and if accompanied by caries, is followed by a similar cicatriform appearance as in other parts. This is often well exemplified on the os frontis of the cranium." Sfriicture.—" The deposit which is met with in the liver and other oi'gans has generally had a long existence there before it comes under our notice, and then, when submitted to examination by the micro- scope, is found to contain fibro-plastic elements, small nuclei, fatty granules, and some amorphous matter. By Prench and German Avriters the term gummy tumour is used to designate these syphilitic deposits, but it is a word which I do not adopt, as it would seem to suggest a soft and almost semi-fluid tumour, which is a condition not often met with, except in a very recent stage of the disease; as usually found, they are hard and fibrous, indicating a dried-up condition of a fibro-plastic matter; occasionally a secondary softening process may have taken place, and thus in one or two instances the nodules in the liver have been in a semi-liquid state in their centres; but in the best-marked instance of this which I shall have to mention a question existed as to the genuine character of this deposit, and whether, in- deed, it might not rather have been the remuaut of a dried-up abscess. On the surface of the bodyoi' mucous membranes, however, this soften- ing process does take place, and thus we have caries of the tibia aud cranium, or ulceration of the pharynx and larynx." " Is the sypliilUic deposit peculiar and distinguishahle ?—This cannot be answered affirmatively, since no elements possessing any peculi- arities are found in it. At the same time, should nodules of fibroid tissue of the kind described be met with in the liver and in other parts of the body, a strong suspicion would be excited as to the nature of the disease; and should, moreover, tliey be associated with other conditions usually recognised as syphilitic, the proof of the existence of syphilis would be as satisfactory as that for any other disease. For instance, the elements of tuberculous matter are not so distinctive tliat a single tubercle in the body is sufficient to indicate its nature; in- deed, should the theory of those physicians be correct, that tubercle