GENERAL SYSTEM. 41 During convalescence, wlicn the patients first began to leave their beds their great weakness caused great acceleration of the pulse, without increase of temperature. Tlie respiration rate did not follow that of the pulse. At Creslau the sensorium remained in not a few Instances undisturbed almost to the time of death: Tetanic rigidity was one of the worst signs ; sleep- lessness, when constant, coma and sopor, were more ominous than persis- tent delirium. Skoda does not think the diarrhcea in fever is dependent on the intestinal affection, since the latter may exist without any diarrhoea ; and diarrhoea is often present without any anatomical lesion. Pain in the ileo-coscal region was scarcely ever observed by Ebers ; the abdomen was distended and soft. Splenic enlargement was not constant. Lebert ob- served roseolous eruption in all his male patients, but only in about two C.rtlis of the female, and in these never to the same extent as in the males, in whom it was so extensive as to resemble the eruption of exantliematic fever. Ulrich states that roseola was seldom absent in marked forms of abdominal fever, and often continued very marked up to the fourth or fifih week, the eruption recurring with relapses. Smoler and Skoda are at issue as to whether an eruption like typhous roseola is met with in any other disease. Gillhuber (' Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk.,' vii, 1861) ob- served at Vienna a maculous eruption only onee ; in half of the cases it was papular. Ebers states that copious fetid-sourish-smelling perspirations in the second stage of exanthematic typhus were mostly a fatal sign. Roser ('Memorab.,' iv, 4, 1859) describes a peculiar alteration of the skin which lie observed in eight cases of typhus, and in these only. They were all severe, and one proved fatal. The alteration consisted in a sort of splitting of the skin at the lower anterior part of the thigh and the lower posterior part of the upper arm. This splitting formed a number of transverse streaks, about as long as a finger, broadest in the middle, and tapering in a wavy manner to the two ends. The skin in these parts was elevated a little, and of a bluish tint, much resembling a vesicle, but not pitting on pressure. The change was gradually produced in the course of some days, and disappeared much more slowly, by the end of six months. Roser beheves that the fissuring of the skin depended on the stretching occa- sioned by the flexion of the knee and elbow-joints, while its texture was weakened by the impaired nutrition. In one case, alluded to by Forster, the streaks more than half surrounded the very emaciated limbs. Para- lysis of the lower limbs and oedema of the feet occurred in two instances during convalescence. Roser ('Memorab.,' v, 3, i860) dwells on the danger which an attack of typhus involves to very fat persons. The pulse becomes extremely quick and, if the heart's tissue is degenerated, very small. The persistence and increase of the frequency of the pulse, without a corresponding increase of the other symptoms, is characteristic of fatty accumulation in the chest, and fatty degeneration of the heart. From fail ure of the circulation, the extremities become cold at an early pei'iod of the fever, and at a time when no vital organ appears to be dangerously affected. Skoda points out various signs (flagging of the circulation in the extremities, cyanosis, smallness of the pulse, dulness or vanishing of the heart's sounds, or murmurs) as probable signs of the formation of coagula in the cavities of the heart. Vogt ('Schweiz. Mon. Schr.,'v, p. 33, i860) states that the chief peculiarities of typhus urine, as com-