llKl'OUT ON SUllOEUy. recourse to the countiug of fiugers. lingers well separated from one another auci hold before a bhick background equal with tojerable accuracy No. CC in distinctness; and thus, if fiugers can bo so counted at the distance of ten feet, it may be noted as S = aoo The motion of a hand over a surface five times larger than No, CC can be recognised at about live times greater distance = looo feet. If, then, the motion of a hand is seen at three feet, S — ——. lOOO If only quantitative perception remains, the visual angle required for vision being infinite iu size, S = —. If no perception of light remains, S = o. In order that no error may arise from defective accommodation, the author generally commences with the examination of large type at a considerable distance; if, then, the vision is not improved by either positive or negative glasses, both myopia and hypermetropia are excluded. The eye must still, however, be examined for astigmatism, either by the use of a small slit or, still better, of both positive and negative cylindrical glasses ; in practice, we soon learn to recognise this afiection from the peculiar errors made in naming the letters and from the elongation of the image. Dr. J. Vroesom cle Haan, researclies on the influence of age on the acuteness of vision (in the reports of the Dutch Hospital for Eye Diseases, 1862, Utrecht). He excluded all eyes affected with myopia greater than with manifest hypermetropia greater than -g'jj, or with astigmatism greater than Such eyes as were not perfectly emmetropic were only examined, when they had been provided with neutralizing glasses. Care was also taken to avoid other errors, such as might proceed from different degrees of illumination or from the direction of the incident light. The only test-objects employed were the letters U, A, 0, L, in No. XX, white on a black ground, whicli can be easily recognised. The number of persons examined amounted to 280 ; the age varied from seven to eighty-four years. Of twelve 30 children, seven years old, one showed an acuteness of vision of —, the ' ' 20 second of —, the third of ^, the fourth of —, the fifth and sixth 20 20 20 26 1 32 of —, the seventh of — with + —, the eighth and nmth of —, the 20 20 80 20 tenth of --, the eleventh of —, the twelfth, with + —, also ^. 20 20 10 20 The average visual acuteness, according to the observations of the 30 author, is from the seventh to the twenty-seventh year = —. Troin 50 29J the twenty-eighth to the thirty-second year it sinks from ^ to —— ;