149 UESPIRATORY SYSTEM. merely pushing it into the system, surely the blood natural to the subject himself will do the same if set properly in motion and aerated. Several experiments are related which seem to show that this procedure might have the desired effect if the difficulties incident to its e-vecution could be surmounted. Richardson, however, seems to think that the blood-vessels should not be opened, and that the blood should be drawn, not pushed, over the pulmonic circuit. He states that he has seen such singular effects in animals from long-continued gentle warmth, that he "does not know, if we could understand all its bearings, to what it might not lead." It seems it is no uncommon thing that animals drowned or strangled, and sent to the manure-heap for burial, recover, even some hours after they Iiave been placed there. The general conclusions arrived at are—(i) Tiiat artificial respiration can prove of avail only while the heart is trans- mitting a pulmonic wave of blood, and that, in the absence of this wave, artificial respiration is injurious—injurious to the lungs, and fatal to the blood. (2) That if a current of blood can be made to traverse the arte- rial channels, the muscles of respiration, previously at rest, will resume their action, and that respiration will follow, as at birth. (3) That the effect of gentle external warmth is to induce an arterial tide, and that this one subject is specially worthy of further inquiry. (4) That gal- vanism is a dangerous remedy in all cases. (5) That reanimation is possible between the time of so-called death, and the period of the coagu- lation of the blood. Trousseau,—On Ozcena, and its Treatment. Bullet. Gener. de Therapeu- tique. Edin. Med. Jour., December, 1863. In the first place, it is necessary not to confound ozsena depending upon the condition of the nasal fossse with the foetor of the breath caused by some affection of the mouth or throat. The simplest diagnostic means is to direct the patient to close his mouth and nose alternately during expiration; it is then generally easy to determine the source of the foetor. Ozaena sometimes depends on the nasal secretions becoming offensive, from undergoing change with unusual rapidity. The remedy is to use the pocket-handkerchief more frequently and thoroughly. In some per- sons the secretions of the mucous membranes become very fetid under the influence of acute or chronic inflammation. A coryza will thus render the nasal secretions very offensive. Constitutional ozsena is specially associated with the scrofulous or herpetic diathesis, and presents an almost specific odour. This form of the disorder begins about the fourth or fifth year, increases towards pubert}"-, diminishes, but does not disap- pear completely, in old age. The nasal secretions are usually purulent, and often very abundant; sometimes they dry up, and form crusts, which mould themselves to the interior of the nostrils. The odour is most dis- agreeable when the ozaena is connected with disease of the antrum, in which the matter remains, and from which it is discharged in streams on certain movements of the patient. In rarer instances the nasal mucous surface and its secretions are quite normal, but there is considerable fcEtor. Of all the causes of ozaena, the most frequent is syphilis; this form more than any other leads to ulceration and necrosis. Treatment is by no means very successful, but with great perseverance on the part