174 REPOllT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINE, times also in the back, which were so severe that they often uttered loud cries; the month could be but little opened, and the arms could not be extended without pain. All the patients during the first weeks of the disease were completely deprived of sleep, but only the two fatal cases had delirium. The gastric symptoms were always well marked, the tongue was white, there was anorexia, much thirst, mostly constipation, rarely any diarrhoea, no abdominal pains or swelling. I'ever ran high, tlie pulse was loo to 120. After fourteen days the heat and the frequency of the pulse diminished, sometimes with critical phenomena, but it was always remarkably long, often three or four months, before the strength was restored. Of all the symptoms, oedema of the subcutaneous areolar tissue and of the muscular was the most prominent, sliowing itself first around the eyes, and producing painful tension and difficulty of moving the muscles. From the muscles of the eyes being affected, vision was impaired, especially as respects looking upwards; from affection of the masseters, opening the mouth was painful; the tongue was moved M-ith difficulty; and at the same time, or soon after, also the muscles in other parts of the body, especially in the arms and legs, swelled and became very tender on pressure. In the slightest cases the oedema often appeared only after the disease had passed off and the power of progression was restored; in the graver cases it attained sometimes to such a pitch that actual fissures of the skin were formed, from which an albuminous watery fluid escaped, and which left numerous transverse silvery-looking cicatrices. In no instance was albumen detected in the urine. The rheumatic pains and the extraordinary weariness, doubtless, depended on oedema of the muscles, occasioned, as may reasonably be supposed, by the trichinte. The amount of fever and of acceleration of the pulse varied much in different cases. During reconvalescence the high evening temperature and pulse-rate was remarkable, which appeared to delay considerably the complete recovery of strength. The skin, except during the first days of fever, was very pale, chlorotic, in one fatal case livid and icteric, in another of a marked lemon-yellow colour. It was worthy of remark, especially in the summer of 1859, how great was the tendency to ex- hausting sweats, which were often cold, and occurred at night, in spite of the patients being kept cool. Various cutaneous affections ensued, as herpes, small furuncles, and occasionally even carbuncles of some size. Spaneemia, even in the slightest cases, and after the disease had continued only a short time, became very apparent, and chlorotic murmurs were heard in the vessels of the neck. The respiratory organs were only affected in individual cases ; some who had suspicious symptoms of tuberculosis suffered from bronchitis and severe cough. The morbid changes found on examination of the two fatal cases consisted of extreme serous infiltration of the subcutaneous and muscular areolar tissue (the serum pouring out in quantity when an incision was made into the substance of the limbs), of copious serous accumulations in the pericardium and pleura, of pulmonary oedema and hypostasis. The digestive organs were healthy, except that there was serous swelling of their mucous membranes. The kidneys were healthy, and the spleen, except in one instance. The blood was everywhere uncoagulated, and thinly fluid. [Although in this epidemic it is not absolutely proved