EESPIEATOKY SYSTEM. 167 as a fluid would have done. The differential diagnosis of the two was not at first quite so easy as it is now. Inspection is usually the test between the two conditions ; the intercostals being distinct and depressed when a membrane exists, but very indistinct and level with the ribs, or possibly prominent, when a fluid occupies the chest. Once an immense tumour occupied and uniformly distended one pleural cavity, and in its course presented all the phenomena, natural and physical, of simple pleurisy. Bowditch tapped three times, viz., at the back, side, and front, at the same visit. No evil followed. With respect to Trousseau's state- ment, that pleurisy of the right side is often or always tuberculous. Bow- ditch finds that in twenty-five cases fourteen were of the right side and eleven of the left. Of the former, only one person is mentioned as having tubercles, and in that the pleurisy was cured and the pulmonary symp- toms mitigated. Of these same fourteen persons tapped in the right side 28-57 P^"" '54'28 per cent, were cured, and 7*14 per cent, re- mained doubtful. Whereas of the eleven cases tapped on the left side, 45-45 per cent, died, 36*36 got well, and i8-i8 were doubtful. In other words, twice as many have got well from tapping the right side as the left, and only half as many have had doubtful results from operations on the right side as in those where the left side has been tapped. Bowditch's experience, therefore, is opposed to Trousseau's. When shall toe operate ? —Experience teaches us to operate in every case, however recent or chronic may be the attack, provided there is permanent or occasional dyspnoea of a severe character, evidently due to the fluid. There is, of course, more hope of doing good where the disease has not been of too long duration, is uncomplicated with phthisis or any other disease, and where, moreover, the amount of fluid seems directly the cause of the trouble. Bowditch deems it best to operate in amj, even in latent cases, where the pleural cavity gets full of fluid, and, if after a reasonable amount of treatment, the fluid does not diminish. Where shall we operate The point originally chosen by Drs. Wyman and Bowditch, viz., in a line let fall from the lower angle of the scapula, and between the ninth and tenth ribs, seems the most appropriate point at which to make a puncture. Bowditch has, however, tapped under the axilla or in the breast, when the case seemed to require it. In selecting the precise intercostal space on the back, Bowditch usually chooses one about an inch and a half higher than the line on a level with the lowest point at which respiratory murmur can be heard in the healthy lung of the other side. Bowditch never waits until pointing commences, for then he is sure that pus will be found. If pointing without opening has commenced he does not necessarily tap in that place, as recommended by the older surgeons, but seeks the most de- pending point in the chest. While thus desiring to operate before a local distension shows itself, he dislikes or refuses to tap where there is con- traction of the intercostal muscles; and he feels certain of getting fluid only where there is distension or flattening of the same. As to the objec- tions to the operation, viz., that "we may puncture the lung;" "we may let air into the pleura ;" " we may by our strong suction injure the lung "the instrument often fails to operate;" "the connecting tube between the pump and the trocar collapses, and thus checks the flow of liquid;" " the liquid may be too thick, and cannot be drawn through the small