llEi'ORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 464 be transmitted to the human subject tlirough a wound; and, according to Mr. Gamgee, this may also occur through the milk, which acquires contagious properties, apparentlv from the rupture of vesicles on the teats. Milk f rom animals affected with anthrax has been known to pro- duce injurious effects, but not in this country. Milk.—Yogel (Erlangen, 1862) proposes the following simple test for the presence of water in milk. A vessel with flat sides is nearly filled with water, and the milk to be tested is poured in, drop by drop, till a taper, placed at a fixed distance behind the bottle, becomes invisible! It is found that the quantity of pure milk which is required to effect this result, is constant; in proportion to the dilution of the milk with water, the quantity dropped into the vessel will of course increase. Oysters.—Symptoms of poisoning were produced by some oysters at Kochefort, which had been brought from Falmouth, where there .is a copper-mine in close vicinity to their beds. They had a bright vegetable- green tint, and a viscid matter, resembling verdigris, exuded from the lobes of the mantle in many of them. M. Cuzent easily detected copper in them by pouring ammonia over them, when a deep-blue colour showed itself, or by introducing a steel needle into the green parts, and adding a little vinegar. Metallic copper was often deposited in less than a minute. (' Comp. Rend.,' 1863, p. 402.) Bread.—Dv. Pellischek ('Oester. Ztschr. f. Prakt. Heilk.,' 1862; ' Schmidt,' 117, 1863, p. 287) relates an instance of the contamination of some flour with the seeds of the Melampyrum arvense. The flour was not of an unusual colour, but the bread made from it had a peculiar dirty violet hue ; the extractive obtained by the action of lactic or acetic acid on the flour assumed, when evaporated, the same appearance. This reaction is known to occur in a chromogen which is contained in the seeds of the melampyrum, and portions of the seed were detected in the flour. No evil effects followed the eating of this bread; .and if the colour be not objected to, such flour may be used without fear. The fact that tlie seeds of this plant give this tint to bread is mentioned in a book published at Lyons in 1782. Pellischek adds some remarks as to the effects of the intermixture of other seeds with corn. Those of the Agrostemma Githago, and of the Thlaspi arvense, give to bread an ash-gray or blackish hue, and a sharp, bitter taste. They have been said to produce a violet colour, but this is not correct. The Rhinanthus major and minor cause a bluish-black tint, a^ disagreeable sweet taste, and a damp sticky condition of the bread. The Polygonum Fagopyrum, and the trifoliuin arvense, produce a violet-red colour. They are not injurious to the health. Seeds which are of a less innocent kind do not affect the colour of the bread which contains them. The Loliian Temulentiim is well known to produce narcotic symptoms. Their occurrence may, however, be avoided by drying the grain in an oven before it is ground, or by keeping the bread some days. The process of fermentation does not destroy its injurious properties. It may be detected by treating the suspected flour with alcohol. This soon acquires a greenish colour and a disagreeable, astringent taste, if the lolium be present; and on evaporation, a greenish-yellow, resinous substance is left. The seeds of the Bromus secalinus, when present in large quantities, make the bread disagreeable and indiges-