GENEllAL SYSTEM. 45 tion occurs in tlie intestine, recent deposits and swelling being found at the margins of old ulcers. In children, according to Langenbeck, the changes °in the intestine are rarely so marked as in adults, much less ulceration occurs, and, indeed, in most cases the swelling of the glands subsides without any. Lebert records a case in which new villi were developed on the cicatrices of the intestinal ulcers. The patient was^ aged 20, and had lived six months after the commencement of the fever. Ebers, in 28 5 fatal cases of exanthematous typhus, found thirty, in various stages of the disease in which the spleen appeared quite normal; it was rarely much enlarged. Buhl states that the liver in typhus becomes larger and more full of blood, and the cells filled with fine granules. In the severer forms of the disease its condition approaches that of yellow atrophy. In the later periods fatty degeneration is not uncommon. Lebert and Ebcrs' experience is to the same effect. The kidneys are overfull of blood and enlarged ; their epithelium readily separates from the basement membrane, and decays. Ebers i-eports six cases of gangrene of the lungs among 1640 patients. Buhl has made some interesting inquiries with respect to the amount of water contained in the cerebral substance at different periods of typhus. He finds that in the first three weeks of typhus the watery constituent is regularly increased about 5'98 per cent.; that this increase is most con- siderable at the end of the first two weeks, and gradually diminishes again in the third; and that after the termination of the disease itself the amount of M'atery constituent falls again to, or below, the normal figure. Coincident with the accumulation of watery fluid in the cerebral tissue, there occur congestion of the vessels and sinuses of the dura mater, con- gestion of the pia mater between the convolutions, loosening and softening of the medullary substance, and sometimes swelling. The subarachnoid spaces contain but little fluid. Buhl designates this condition as acute cerebral oedema. In the opposite condilion, that of acute cerebral atrophy, the tissue of the brain is stiff, the gray matter pale, the medullary brilliantly white. The arachnoid is milky ; the subarachnoid and ventricular spaces contain a large quantity of fluid, effused to occupy the room of the shrinking organ. The symptoms during life correspond with the above-described conditions. While the cerebral tissue contains much fluid, there is unconsciousness ; when the fluid disappears, conscious- ness returns. This correspondence is very striking in cholera, during the asphyxial stage of which (when the water-amount is much diminished) the mind is clear; while in the typhoid stage (when the watery consti- tuent returns to the normal amount) stupor and coma ensue. Buhl does not think that Uiere is an invariable connection between the existence of a normal amount of fluid in the brain tissue and its capacity for functional activity, but that the latter depends on tissue metamorphosis taking place equally and regularly. Tetanic phenomena in cerebral oedema appear to Buhl to depend on the amount of cerebral activity on the one hand, and on increased pressure of fluid on the cord on the other. Buhl describes the muscular tissue of the heart as swollen, brittle, and having its fibres beset with fine granules, the results, he says, of a parenchymatous inflam- mation. Snioler corroborates Stokes's account of the softened state of the heart, and of the corresponding M'eakening of the first sound. In three cases described by Lebert an unusual development of gas in the blood, or