XEIIVOUS SYSTEM. 101 which lies near Wiirzburg, nnd has a popuhition of jjeasants, who are well off", but who iutcrmarry into each other's families. The affected individuals, who are called there "the stiff" (Starren), are suddenly seized by a peculiar sensation in their hmbs, upon which all their muscles become tense, their countenance deathly pale, they retain the posture which they first assume, their fingers are bent and quiver slightly, and the eyeballs in the same way, the visual axes converging; their intellects and" senses are normal, but their speech consists only of broken sounds. The attack ceases in one to five minutes, and the body becomes warm. A chill is commonly said to be the exciting cause. The attacks come on in all places and during all occupations, but with varj-- ing intensity. The disorder is hereditary in families, but often passes over one generation, and is rendered more intense by the marriage of two persons thus affected. Half of the population, men as well as women, is cataleptic. All the inhabitants are small and deformed, but not mentally inferior to those of adjacent districts. Peacock, T. B.—Statistical Analysis of Cases of Chorea. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1863. Peacock's conclusions are as follows :—(i) The disease existed in twenty females and in only eleven males. (2) It is much more frequent from five to twenty years of age, but occurs at all ages. (3) Itis about equally frequent in young boys and young girls. (4) From the age of ten to that of twenty, the female sex is much more liable to the disease, in the ratio of ten to four. (5) Some form of rheumatic or cardiac affection is most frequently associated with chorea; in fourteen cases it was present in five. (6) The most frequent exciting causes of chorea are more or less violent mental impressions—fear, grief, excessive joy, &c. Such influences were operative in 387 per cent, of the cases, but were in several instances so slight that there Avas evidently an undue susceptibility. (7) The indica- tions for treatment are to relieve gastro-intestinal irritation, quiet the ner- vous system, and improve the general power and condition of the blood. The pupils in the active stage of chorea are very large, and the iridcs nearly insensible to light. (8) There is not much difference in the faci- lity of cure in cases of first attack or of relapses or subsequent seizures. The age also does not influence the result, provided the patients are not in advanced life. (9) Under any course of treatment chorea is prone to relapse. BniCHETEAU—Gaz. des Hopit., No. 46. Observed in one of Monneret's wards an epidemic of chorea. In the course of five days after the admission of a young girl suffering from most intense chorea, eight patients already present in the ward contracted the disorder, and in all probability the contagion would have extended more widely had not its influence been arrested by isolation of the patients. KlRKKS, W. S.—0?i Choi •ea; its relation to Valvular Disease of the Heart, and its Treatment. Med. T. and Gaz., June 20th, 27th. Kirkes believes that whenever chorea occurs in association with acute rheumatism, the valves of the left side of the heart are inflamed, and that therefore the association is not between chorea and rheumatism, as usually believed, but between chorea and valvular disease of the