125 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. amount of red globules in the blood. As to diagnosis, the only diseases ■with which hsemophilia can well be confounded are scurvy and purpura. The distinction rests chiefly on these points—that the latter affections are never congenital or inherited ; that they occur as epi- or en-demics ; that hffiraorrhage in them is never so violent, obstinate, or frequent as in hfcmophilia ; and that traumatic lesions do not give rise to such profuse and exhausting loss of blood. Further, in scurvy there is a much greater tendency to decomposition of all the secretions, to formation of ulcers, destruction of the gums, and to sero-sanguineous exudations in the serous cavities. As to prognosis, Grandidier states—(i) That when one parent only is affected, the progeny is much more likely to suffer when the mother is hfeniophilic than when the father is. (2) Wlieu one parent belongs to an hcemophilic familj', without actually inheriting the disorder, there is a great difference whether this is the male or female. If the former, there is no reason to apprehend that his children, by a healthy wife, will suffer from the affection. In the latter case there is much probability that some of their offspring will be haemophilic, the mother appearing to act as a " conductor" of the disease, though she herself escapes. (3) If both parents come of bleeding families, or are themselves bleeders, the probability that their offspring will be so is, of course, much increased; and Grandidier expresses the opinion that such unions should be legally interdicted. As to treatment, it is evident that the means employed must be different during the time of the hsemovrhages and in their inter- vals. In the latter, the aim of the practitioner should generally be to lower the abnormally increased action of the heart, and to diminish the tendency of the system to local oi-gasm and active determination of blood. In former times V.S. was employed for this purpose, but it is now laid aside as too dangerous in these subjects. Digitalis, nauseating drugs, and cooling neutral salts, are found more suitable. Of the latter, sulphate of soda is stated to have a well-established reputation, and to be looked upon almost as a specific. It is, of course, not to be administered when the crasis of the blood is seriously altered, and exhaustion is imminent. Another indication is to raise and strengthen the resisting power and the energy of the capillaries. For this purpose acetate of lead, preparations of iron, and ergotin, are recommended. They are not, liowever, to be used in the period of congestion and vascular excitement, but later. Some cures are recorded by means of chalybeate waters (Schwalbach and Pyrmonl). When hsemorrhages actually occur, styptics must be em- ployed ; yet even in this case one must not be too hasty to arrest sponta- neous bleeding by local repressants, so long as there appears no sign of danger, for fear that other htemorrhages, such as internal, should ensue, or convulsive and apoplectic attacks. One must rather endeavour to calm the vascular excitement and to lessen the tendency to local determination by suitable general treatment. Of the various local means employed for the arrest of haemorrhage, pressure, following a slight application of nitrate of silver, seems to be most successful, in parts where it can be borne. Perchlo- ride of iron has often been used, but without any remarkable advantage. Mercury, in any way of administration, is to be siiunned; it seems to be specially injurious to the hcemophilic, and its use in several cases has been followed by external and internal hBcmorrhage. Lastly, as to the dis-