463 POOD. covered. They both ultimately did well. Two swine which, ate the offiil of the cow also died. Animals atfected with diseases belonging to this class are extensively slaughtered; and their flesh is eaten, with the exception of the gangre- nous parts. Tliirdly, there are the parasitic diseases. These affections are probably better known by medical men in this country than those belonging to the other classes. Flesh from animals killed on account of the "staggers" (ccenurus cerebralis) has been known to produce severe symptoms in a family, which, in the case of one child, proved fatal. A country butcher, while skinning and dressing a number of sheep affected with rot (distoma hepaticum), complained greatly of the sickening smell ; the same evening he was attacked by choleraic disease, and the next day he died. Evil effects have been witnessed when human beings have eaten the flesh of sheep slaughtered because affected with the distoma, but this has been attributed to the rapid putrefaction of such meat. The most frequent consequence of eating flesh affected with parasites is, however, the propagation or development of the animal within the human body. This has long been well known to be the case with the cestoid worms ; and recently it has been proved that another parasite, the Trichina spiralis, is capable, when eaten in pork, of producing fatal disease. The symptoms in a case recorded by Prof. Zenker, of Dresden, at first resembled those of typhoid fever. Intense pains in the extremities, with oedematous swelling of the legs, then came on, and death occurred a fortnight after the patient's admission into the hospital. The muscles had a grayish colour and a freckled appearance, and were found to be loaded with trichinae, which lay within the sarcolemma of the primitive fibrils, and were not enclosed in capsules. Four days before she was taken ill, two pigs were slaughtei'ed in the establishment of this girl's master. Some ham and sausage prepared from one of these animals was found to be full of trichinse. She had probably eaten some of the raw meat. The butcher was taken ill about the same time, and was confined to his bed for three weeks, suffering from severe muscular pains, with a semi-paralytic condition. This affection was probably caused by an immigration of trichinae, not extensive enough to cause death. Tlie female trichinae produce young in the human alimentary canal. In the intestinal mucus of the girl who died immense numbers of tiiem, full of well-developed embryos, were found. These worms have the power of resisting influences which destroy other parasites. Meat may also produce poisonous effects in man, in consequence of its being impregnated with metallic or vegetable substances, administered to the animal in large quantities during life. Cases are recorded of this kind, from the ingestion of the flesh of an ox to which two ounces of tartar-emetic had been given. This case is probably exceptional. It is yet uncertain how far the milk from diseased cows is capable of pro- ducing injurious effects. The question is practically confined in this country to the milk of cows affected with epizootic aphtha. It has lieen supposed to produce disorder of the stomach and bowels in infants who are fed with it; but this is doubtful. There is no doubt that the disease itself may