807 HAIH-PIN IN THE BLADDEB. powder given her every six hours. No untoward symptom supervened, and she felt well in tliree days, and could retain her urine for several hours. At the expiration of a week chloroform was again administered, and Mr. Hilton passed his little finger, and then his forefinger along the urethra into the bladder, and felt the pin still fixed across the right side of the viscus, with the bent part of the body directed backward. A blunt hook, directed by the forefinger, was passed so as to hook on to the hair-pin, and it was pulled first towards the patient's left side, so as to disengage its point from the right side of the bladder, and then drawn downwards towards the urethra, and thus extracted without difficulty. It was then discovered that a piece of one of the legs of the pin had been broken off and left within the bladder, but the finger could not detect it. The bladder was therefore distended by the injection of warm water, and the water allowed to gush outwards, and with it floated the remaining piece of the pin, about an inch long." Had either 6f the pointed legs presented, Mr. Hilton would have employed a blunt hook provided with an eye ; the latter would have been passed over the point and then run along till it reached the bend. The patient could in a few days retain her urine almost as well as before the operation. She left the hospital in every respect well at the expiration of a fortnight. In some remarks on a similar case, Dr. Billroth states (' Schweiz. Zeitschr. f. Heilk.,' i, 56), that he has found no bad effect from dilating the female urethra with a blunt-pointed knife, towards one side, suflBi- cientiy to introduce the forefinger. The only thing that he has noticed is, that when the patient stands up, she sometimes experiences a violent desire to make water, a state which rarely continues more than two or three days. He cannot understand how complicated methods of opera- ting for stone in the female can be recommended. A few months since a woman with stone in the bladder came into the hospital; he dilated the urethra, felt with the finger a stone as big as a large plum ; broke it with strong forceps, extracted the fragments, and cleared the debris out by injection. No fever followed; the patient was cured, and left the hospital in eight days. The urethra is often so large in females, that the finger can be at once introduced into it. The operation for vesico-vaginal fistula is much facilitated by the introduction of the finger into the bladder ; the sutures are applied with far more certainty and exactness by this means than when the fistula is reached from the vagina alone. B. Solt, on certain errors m the diagnosis and treatment of retention of urine (' Lancet,' 1863, i, 202). " Ketention of urine in a healthy man (excluding that from stricture of the urethra) may be said to occur generally from one of these causes—(i) From over-distension conse- quent on the postponement of the act of micturition. (2) Upon spasm arising from irritation of the urine after a debauch. (3) From either or both of the above acting upon an elderly person subject to more or less enlargement of the prostate." It is generally supposed that the diagnosis will be at once determined by the introduction of the catheter, but according to Mr. Holt's experience, in this proceeding, " a fallacy occurs which constantly leads to most serious error. The surgeon introduces a silver catheter into the urethra, it is true, but the instru-