66 hepout on practical medicine, affections, especially the cutaneous. (2) Tlmt they are an aid to diagnosis iu doubtful cases oP syphilis, and educe manifest symptoms when none such exist. (3) Tiiat they form an excellent preparation for fresh anti- syphilitic treatment, and, in combination with mercury or iodine, cure many diseases, especially of the osseous system. (4) That by themselves alone they are able to remove mercurial disorders continuing to exist after the cessation of syphilis. DiDAY.—Gaz. M(§dicale de Lyons. Edin. Med. J., April, 1862. Remarks that tertiary syphilis is a distinct pathological stage, differen- tiated by its clinical characters, its prognosis, and treatment, from secon- dary syphilis. Tertiary cannot be produced at pleasure, nor can we foresee the cases in which it will occur; in general, it continues and perpetuates itself in spite of every remedy; finally, its lesions are not contagious. If we compare the two groups, it will be seen that the characters of secondary syphilis belong to the class of virulent affections, or inoculations by morbid secretions, (such as vaccinia and tlie eruptive fevers), while those of tertiary syphilis belong to the class of diatheses (such as some skin diseases and rheumatism). This transformation from an intoxication into a diathesis is not owing to an excessive duration of the secondary period, nor to the absence of specific treatment, but on the one hand to the variable strength of the original virus, and especially to the variable degree of resistance which the organism of different patients opposes to the action of this virus. Individuals originally endued with little vital resistance, or in whom the power of resistance has been enfeebled, whether by age or by dyscrasise—whether by privation of pure air, of proper food, of sleep—whether by the effects of errors of regimen or the depressing passions—these are the persons in whom we most often see syphilis assume the permanent form, and take on tiie characters of a diathesis. Mercury fails almost invariably, iodine does but palliate. To cure, if it be possible, a diathesis, requires not less than the prolonged action of all reconstituent influences, requires not less than a radical and durable change of alimentation, of residence, sometimes of profession—in short, of all the habits, whether social or moral. PiHAN-DuPElLLAY.—Oil the Alterations of the hiternal Organs pro- duced bxj Syphilis. L'Union, 61, 108, iii, 114, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 41. From two cases, one reported by himself, the author takes occasion to make the following general remarks. In both tlie remarkable phenomena were the highly developed syphilis, the induration of the wasted or enlarged glandular organs, and the circumscribed knots in their tissue. The enlargement of the liver must be regarded as the first stage of the disease, its atrophy as the second, as is also determined by periodic examination of the living subject. Tlie same is true also of the other organs. The characteristic feature of tlie alteration consists in the growth of normal cellular tissue, and wasting of the other tissues. A diagnosis can only be founded upon the antecedents, and upon the existing cachexia. The earthy tint induced by the latter gives no indication of the liver being diseased; it is quite different from the icteric tinge, and