IIEPOUT ON SURGEEY. nieclmuioal liypera-iiiia at tho poiut of bending, aud wliicli reaclieri its niaxiiiniiii doso to the margin of tlio excavation. TIiIh is also an imijortaiit dillL-iviiw from atrojjliic excavations, in wliich the vessels are generally diminished in size, and in which especially the sud- den ending of congested veins at the margin of the depression is absent. "(4) The arterial branches within the excavation i)ulsate either spontaueonsly or on the slightest pressure with the finger on the eve." He totally rejects the idea of an idiopathic affection of tho optic nerve in glaucoma, an idea wliicli is unsupported by fresh 8i)ecimenB or yet by analogy. The author doubts Bonders' explanation of glaucoma, according to which an abnormal irritation of the secretory nerves is the remote cause—(i) because of the absence of any experimental proof; (2) be- cause of the want of any connection between pressure and inflamma- tion, whilst, on the other hand, inflammation sufficiently explains the increased pressure; (3) because in mauy cases of so-called glaucoma simplex slight transitory attacks of inflammation may be discovered. He still defends the inflammatory nature of glaucoma, although he admits that a certain proportion of cases run their course without marked symptoms of inflammation, and that in the rest the pressure- symptoms continue during the intervals between the inflammatory attacks. As to the classification of cases of glaucoma and the definition of their stages, be notices the 'premonitorij stage (glaucoma imminens, incipiens). This stage is characterised by the periodical occurrence of the symptoms. The intervals present perfect intermissions, except that the range of accommodation remains somewhat limited, and that the tension of the eyeball is increased. The attacks are characterised in this stage by slight sluggishness and dilatation of the pupil, faint cloudiness of the aqueous humour, congestion of the retinal veins, iridescent vision, mistiness of sight, and occasionally—though by no means always—by ciliary neuroses. In more severe attacks all these symptoms are more fully developed; diminished size of the anterior chamber, indistinctness of excentrical vision, even peripheral defects in the visual field, especially when the light is of little intensity, and arterial pulsation, make their appearance. If thepu])il and acutencss of vision are no longer normal during the intervals, or if the optic nerve lecomes excavated, then the premonitory stage is past, and the case is one of developed glaucoma iviih periodical exacerbations of the symptoms. Prof von Grafe considers the distinction of the premonitory stage to be of practical importance, because its duration is indefinite, and operative treatment may be delayed. Cases of developed glaucoma (evolutum, confirmatum) maybe divided into several forms:—(i) Those without inflammatory symptoms, the glaucoma simplex of Douders, the glaucomatous excavations or amau- roses with glaucomatous excavation of the author. This form is scarcely ever preceded by a premonitory stage; about one third of the eyes at- tacked by it are myopic, a circumstance of otherwise uncommon occur- rence ; it occurs relatively more often than the other forms during