REPOnT ON MIDWIFEUY, KTC. 372 there had been adherent placenta. Immediately after natural delivery profuse hajmorrhage occurred from adliesiou of the placenta; this was carefully removed, and the viterus contracted well. Half an hour after, jactitation and collapse came on, and, as a last resource, the author de- termined on transfusion. Assisted by the resident clerks, Dr. Hicks injected, at three instalments, about six ounces of the husband's blood, ■which was all that could be obtained. She rallied for a short time; but another attempt to procure more blood failing, she sank two hours after delivery. The second case was that of an ill-fed Irishwoman, jet. 3 8, mother of six children, who was attacked with immense hasmorrhage at the full term, and was A'ery shortly in a state of collapse. The membranes were ruptured, and as the os gradually dilated she improved, but when fully dilated the pulse suddenly flagged. Transfusion from the husband was accomplished with difficulty, and about six ounces were injected. The pulse, before scarcely perceptible, could now be plainly felt, the jactita- tion ceased, respiration improved, and the voice became stronger. Dr. Hicks now with great ease performed bimanual Aversion. The child was dead, and the placenta almost entirely detached. The uterus failed to contract, and in spite of the most unremitting support by stimulants, she sank before a second attempt at transfusion could be made. In both cases the funnel-and-syringe apparatus was used. Mr. Thorne reports a case ('Lancet,' i, 1863, p. 266). In a few minutes after premature delivery of a dead child symptoms of internal haemorrhage appeared, and pressure over the uterus was followed by profuse haemorrhage. The placenta, now found nearly entirely adherent, was at once detached, and firm pressure made over the uterus, when all haemorrhage ceased; the patient, however, was nearly pulseless, and in spite of free stimulation, became rapidly worse. Respiration twice ceased, but was restored by artificial means. Transfusion was now performed, but, owing to the loss of some blood, and the woman fainting from whom the blood was drawn, only about two ounces were injected into the patient's median cephalic vein; this, however, seemed just sufficient to stimulate the heart to renewed action, for immediately before the operation the pulse at the radial could scarcely be detected, whereas in ten minutes after, the pulsations of the temporal were very distinct. During the next six hours she had two injections of hot brandy and beef tea, and after this she was fed every quarter or half hour during the next forty-eight hours. All symptoms of reaction soon passed off; she was kept for ten days on strong fluid nourishment, and recovered well. An interesting case of Transfusion for the relief of anaemia consequent on repeated attacks of uterine hemorrhage is recorded by Dr. Braun ('Wien. Wochensch.,' 1863, No. 21). The patient, aet. 45, miscarried in August, 1862, and suffered from such severe metrorrhagia, from that time up to April, 1863, that her life became in most imminent danger from extreme ana;mia. Dr. Braun therefore performed transfusion on April 22nd, and the result was most satisfactory. Scarcely an ounce of blood was injected when the patient, who had before been most ex- hausted, recovered some of her colour, and declared herself better, and