RKPORT ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. 156 Sanderson, J. B.—Ora Asthma. Med. Tim. and Gnz., May 161I1. Saiulerson regards as the chnrftctcristic elements of asthmatic dyspnoea— (i) Excessive expansion of the chest. (2) Resisted hut forcible elibrtfi to expire. (3) Diminution of the excliange of air in the chest, and conse- quent venous condition of the blood. In the asthmatic state the chest is arched forwards in extreme inspiration, the diaphragm sinks below its normal level, so that its power is lost, while the almost fruitless efforts to renew the air in tlie chest are accomplished by elevation of the upper ribs. The expiratory muscles of the abdominal wail are in excessive action, but, in spite of their efforts, air is expelled from the chest with extreme diffi- culty and in small quantity. The condition of blood which is thus pro- duced gives rise to the sensation of want of breath, and compel* the patient to make conscious and voluntary efforts to get rid of the used air, which is, as it were, locked up in his chest. Sanderson explains the de- velopment of this state by remarking that during the most profound sleep (when asthma mostly supervenes) the muscles which open the glottis become more relaxed, and the aperture is therefore narrower, so that expi- ration becomes more difficult. As the laryngeal resistance is normally greater to the egress than to the ingress of air, the chest falls more and more with each respiration, the inspiratory power of the diaphragm lessens, the exchange of air is diminished, the blood becomes less arterial, and thus, without any agency beyond the intensification of that condition of respiration which exists in natural sleep, all the elemeulsof asthma are developed. Asthma may thus be traced to disorder of the respiratory function of the glottis. As, however, the same nerve supplies the muscles of the glottis and the contractile fibre of the lung-tissue, it is highly probable that both are in a similar state of relaxation. The above view accords perfectly with what is known as to the intimate relation of asthma and emphysema. Emphysema is rather the consequence than the cause of asthma ; it results from resisted but powerful efforts on the part of the expiratory muscles to expel air from an expanded lung. This is precisely the state of things in asthma. But the relation between the disease and the lesion is rather that of community of cause than of consequence. Temporary over-expansion of the lung is a constituent of asthma; perma- nent expansion cannot exist without emphysema. During the attack of asthma stimulants are most useful. Sandahl, 0. Tn.— 0)1 the Effects of Condensed Air on the Human Or- ganism, 171 its Physiological and Therapeutical Eolations. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 173. We refer to this paper, which is too long for our limits, especially with reference to the fatal cases recorded as having occurred from working in compressed air in Ireland {v. p. 88.) The method is said to have been more or less successful in acute and chronic laryngitis, in tracheal catarrh, and acute and chronic bronchitis, in croupous and capillary bronchitis, chronic pneumonia, emphysema and asthma, pulmonary tuberculosis, pertussis, summer catarrh, pulmonary atelectasis, ancemia, chlorosis, and struma, and deafness depending on obstruction of the Eustachian tube. Establish- ments for administration of baths of condensed air are said (0 exist at Lyons, Montpellier, Nizza, Paris, London, and at Johannisberg.