llEPORT ON SUBQEttY. 190 B. Volkmanii, on the healing of ulcers under scabs, &c. (' Arch. f. Klin. Cliir.,' iii, aya) Hospital f/am/reno.—A. North ('Amer. Med. Times,' J 86.3, i, 2-;';). G. B. Weeks ("ib., ii, 46). R. L. Stanford, J. A. Dougherty, and Mr. . Goldsmith, on bromine in hospital gangrene (ib., 24, 84, 121). Dis- cussion on iiospital gangrene (ib., 109, 122). 1\ H. Hamilton, two cases occurring without previous wound, (ib., 1863, ii, 181,) and tabu- lar statement of thirty-three cases (ib., 201;). Pi/cBmin.—"W. S. Kirkes, on pericarditis consequent on pyajmia ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, ii, 431, 461). E. Quain (ib., 1863, ii, 29). SEPTICiEMIA. Prof. Panum, in his experiments on putrid infection ('Arch. f. path. Anat.,' XXV, 441), never found any inflammatory changes in the lungs, provided the putrid fluids liad been carefully filtered. The putrid liquid employed in these experiments came from decomposing dog's flesh; cold distilled water was used, and then repeatedly filtered. In respect to the nature of the putrid matters, he found the following results: J. The putrid poison is not volatile, but fixed; it does not pass over in distillation, but remains in the retort. 2. The putrid poison is not decomposed by boiling and evaporation, not even when the boiling is continued for eleven hours, and the putrid matters are perfectly dried by means of a water bath. 3. The putrid poison is insoluble in pure alcohol; it is, however, soluble in water, and is contained in the watery extract of the dried putrid substances, after their previous treatment witli alcohol. 4. The albuminous substances often contained in putrid fluids are not per se poisonous, but only become so because they condense the poison on their surface; they can be freed from it by careful washing. 5. The intensity of the putrid poison can only be compared with that of serpents, curare, and the vegetable alkaloids; for after boiling, evaporation, and treatment with pure alcohol, o'oia gramme of it almost sufiices to kill a little dog. He will not attempt to decide whether the putrid poison acts directly on the nervous system or as a ferment on the blood; if, however, it should prove to be the latter, it would differ from all known ferments by retaining its power after boiling and after treatment with pure alcohol. On septic poisoning of the blood, by "NV. Eoser (' Arch. d. HeUk,,' 1863, 135, 233). Much confusion has arisen from anumber of different conditions having been thrown together under collective names, such as putrid infection, septic poisoning of the blood, septicffimia. It has been too often forgotten that a great number of chemical processes are included in the popular idea of putrefaction ; that many difterent products of composition are absorbed, and may be injurious; aud that the circumstances under which decomposing bodies act on the organism vary extremely. It certainly makes a material difterence whether a putrid matter passes from the stomach or intestinal canal, and thus acts on the portal vein and liver, or whether, infiltrated in the cellular