ItEPORT OX PltACTlCAL MEDICINK. median nerve lias generally ere this become implicated. In (he early stage buUce may appear on the sides or tip of the lingers, filled with dark- coloured serum; the concentric lines on the cuticle disappear, owing, doubtless, to the absorption of the subjacent rows of papillae, and a finely wrinkled, but especially smooth, surface is left; the sweat-glands, be- coming affected, cease to act. The phalangeal bones are strikingly altered ; absorption first renders the shaft very slender about the middle, then the head disappears, and the base remains as a curious conical piece. A general diminution in the size of the bones of the hand and feet has been seen, and even the metatarsal or metacarpal bones may be destroyed, as well as the adjoining row of short bones, so that nothing but a bare stump remains." The author is decidedly of opinion that the atrophy is the result of anaesthesia, but does not consider it fully made out how much is owing to irritation from without, and how much to the loss of the nervous influence. Expei-iments upon animals go to prove that the former is most influential. Barnes, R., M.D.—On the Fallacies of the Statistical Method as ap- jilied to Medicine. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Nov. 14th and 28th. Barnes remarks that if we could be sure that we were adding and comparing like things, we might have confidence in the results of the above method. But it is almost impossible to obtain such materials. He points out various instances where, under some general apparently accurate statement, a number of fallacies are concealed, which direct medical observation alone can detect. One example is as follows:— The returns show that 67 per cent, of the registered births are vaccinated, it is therefore concluded that 33 per cent, are unprotected. But by no means all the births are registered; many vaccinations are not registered at all; many children perish before they are old enough to be vaccinated ; many vaccinations presumed successful are imperfect. Barnes demurs altogether to the assumption that the errors here enumerated can counter- balance each other so that the ultimate result shall at all approach to accuracy. He maintains that pneumonia is more frequently a symptom or manifestation of some kind of blood disease or fever than a simple local phlegmasia. Bronchitis and pneumonia occurring during the first few days of childbirth are commonly nothing more or less than manifestations of puerperal fever, yet the terms are commonly employed when describing the cause of death in quite a different sense. In fact, pneumonia instead of being, as assumed, the most uniform and homogeneous disease, is utterly multiform, and consequently the deductions drawn from the results of various cases grouped together must be unreliable. With respect to the influence of consanguinity in marriages in producing certain forms of disease or physical degeneration, statistics are used with great force both by those who affirm and those who deny its effect. This, of course, proves fundamental differences in the observations. The truth is, that the con- ditions involved are so numerous and complicated as to defy the extrication and isolation of the one circumstance—consanguinity. Discoveries arc made in medicine, as in natural historj', by sagacity in detecting the rela- tions of things, by patient observation and questioning of nature. " Non uumerandrc, sed perpendendsc, sunt observationes."