NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 95 and sensitive disturbances. In some of these cases oUier patliological changes -within the cranium appear to form the basis of the psychical disease, (e) There are cases in which neither epilepsy nor mental dis- turbance exists, but cerebral symptoms of irritation or torpor, which come on shortly before death or assume a chronic form. The cysticerci were situated chiefly at the periphery of the brain, in the gray cortical layer ; whence he concludes that they had not been themselves carried thither, but their germs had. The epilepsy from cysticercus is in all respects like cerebral epilepsy, and the psychical disturbances in general have nothing characteristic about them. Very often, also, other cerebral symptoms coexist, such as squinting, alteration in the pupils, avoidance of light, headache, coma, anomalous sensations in the limbs, &c. The only exceptions to the location of the cysticerci in the cerebral mem- branes and in the cortical gray matter are where they are very numerous in the brain ; if the number is moderate, it is extremely rare to find even a few imbedded in the white matter (not merely projecting into it out of the gray), and they are never found solely in the white matter. Those cases only where the cysticerci were situated more deeply in or near the large cerebral ganglia, or in the basal parts of the brain had paralysis. The predominant symptoms were in almost all cases those of so-called cerebral irritation, partly in the way of motor, partly in the way of psychical, disorder. In i6 cases out of 54, epileptiform paroxysms occurred, and terminated fatally after other grave symptoms had super- vened, as delirium, sopor, and extreme debility. In two instances the rapid course of the disease appeared certainly to depend on the rapid growth of the vesicles. Cysticercal epilepsy is mostly a disease of rather advanced life. In 43 cases where the age is accurately stated there were only 3 under 20 years, 15 between 20 and 40, and 25 over 40 years of age. More males are attacked than females, (60 per cent.) The number of the cysticerci has a considerable influence on the symptoms, especially on the occurrence of mental disorder. A few (i—3) vesicles were present in 20 cases, and of these there were 3 without symptoms, 8 with the uncertain and inconsiderable symptoms of group e, <; with epilepsy, and 6 with mental disease, 2 of the latter being epileptic. A moderate number of vesicles (5—60) were present in 28 cases ; of these 2 had no symptoms, 7 belong to group e, 9 were epileptic, 13 insane, 3 of these being also epileptic. Very numerous, sometimes several hun- dred, vesicles were present in 8 cases; of these none were without symp- toms, only I belonged to group e, 2 were epileptic, 6 insane, one of these also epileptic. Though the general rule is as above stated, exceptions occur, which appear to depend in great measure on the condition of the cerebral substance, which is not directly affected by the disease. If acute tumefaction of the brain sets in during the last days of life, the surface of the organ is pressed against the skull and becomes pale and dry, and there ensues a rapid aggravation of all the symptoms ; whereas atrophy of the brain has an opposite effect, and no signs of cerebral pressure are often apparent. Fekbeb, R. H.—Arch. d. Heilk., p. 530, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 50.