UEPORT ON rilACTICAL WICDICINE. 128 medintely nfter expiration in this situation, the systolic elevation is followed by a short, limited, diastolic vibration. In one case of hyper- trophy of the right heart, with mitral stenosis, the author observed, while the cardiac impulse was indistinct, a manifest elevation and vibration of the sternum (produced by the right ventricle) at the attach- ment of the fifth rib, and a simultaneous descent of the hard, distinctly perceptible liver at each contraction of the organ. At the autopsy tlie right ventricle was found to be actually placed in this way, and there M-as a deep impression on the surface of the liver. Skoda.—On Reduplication of the Pulse, and Sounds of the Heart. Alig. Wien. Med. Ztg., viii, 3, 4, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 28. Reduplication of the pulse is probably a local phenomenon, depending upon a relaxation of the tissues round the artery, which thus becomes more movable. Reduplication of the cardiac sound depends on want of synchronism in the action of the two sides of the heart, or, rarely, on the right ventricle contracting twice for each contraction of the left. The second sound may be reduplicated without the first, but not vice versd. The reduplication of the second sound depends, in most cases, on a con- siderable increase in the tension of the pulmonary artery; as a rule, the separation of the two sounds is so brief that it amounts to no more than a dividing. Manifest reduphcation of the second sound may be produced by the part of the sound produced in the arteries and that produced in the ventricle not coinciding. Sticky exudation in the pericardium may also produce reduplication of the second sound, and also certain conditions of the stomach. DucHEK.—Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Heart. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., vii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. n8, p. 29. Duchek distinguishes—(i)Aproductiveform|of pericarditis, in which there is much connective tissue formed, and which usually leads to adhesion. (2) An exudative form, with copious serous effusion, often mixed with blood. (3) A suppurative form. (4) A degenerative form, where the exudation is converted into a cheesy material. (5) A destructive form, where the effused fluid is sanious, and in which gaseous products are some- times developed, almost exclusively of secondary character. The pro- ductive form occurs in individuals previously healthy. The exudative form is to be recognised by the signs of copious effusion. Its subjects are usually depressed or dropsical. The effusion is bloody in cases of variola, scurvy, purpura, &c. If the dull percussion sound changes into a tympa- nitic, it indicates that gas has become developed in the pericardium. The signs of pericardial adhesion are stated as—(i) The cardiac dulness is unaltered by the respiratory movements. (2) The normal systolic impulse is quite lost, or felt only as a weak vibration. The surface of one or more intercostal spaces is drawn in at each systole. This symptom, however, is not pathognomonic of pericardiac adhesion ; it may be pro- duced in atrophy of the lungs, in pleuritic adhesion and retraction, in hypertrophy of the heart, and even in healthy, but lean persons. Retrac- tion of the epigastrium is observed in cases where the diaphragm is