GKNERAL SYSTEM. 58 cnn pursue. Incrense of the temperature, unless it be of short duration, after it has begun to fall, indicates either a relapse or a complication. The most frequent was catarrhal pneumonia, which could not always be dis- tinguished from croupous. It proved fatal especially in young children. Cold applications, according to Barthel's method, were found beneficial. Acute miliary tuberculosis and croupous pneumonia were the most frequent secondary or consecutive diseases. Smart, W. R. E., M.D.—On Epidemics of Yellow Fever in Bermuda. Brit. Med. Jour., March 2ist. The most intense manifestations of the disease have arisen in crowded barracks and convict-hulks, &c., especially when the healthy and the sick have been kept together. In the worst instances recorded it has been found that removal from infected localities has been always followed by an almost complete exemption of those not already aftected, by ameliora- tion of the state of the attacked, and, lastly, by an early extinction of the epidemic character of the fever. These facts show that the essential causes of the disease operate under ordinary circumstances by material local agencies, rather than by personal. During epidemics there has been always an epidemic constitution, manifested by the prevalence of catarrhal affections in the spring and of gastric affections in the early summer; these yielding to fever, which at its climax in the autumn assumed the type of yellow fever, with black vomit in a greater or less pro- portion of the attacks. Sanitary measures are the means to be relied on upon the approach of the epidemic constitution in any locality. When the epidemic has broken out, the only measure of certain value is removal from the locality. Smart thinks that the disease may be contagious, though this is not proved. Desguin.—Erysipelas of the Face in Intermittent Fever. Gaz. Med. de Paris, Nov., 1862. Brit. Med. Jour., March 7th. In the autumn of 1861 Desguin observed a large numher of cases of this kind. In every instance there was well-marked gastro-inteslinal dis- order. The erysipelas was earlier in its appearance in some cases than in others; in some it preceded the fever, in others it followed. Treatment by purgatives, followed by quinine, was successful. MooBE, W. J.—Lancet, Aug. ist. Reports his experience in the treatment of malarious fever by the sub- cutaneous injection of quinine. He finds that four or five grains of quinine administered in this way are equal in their effects to five or six times that amount taken into the stomach ; that the effects are more certain than when taken in the ordinary method ; and that relapses are more rare, lie uses a solution of 30 grains of quinine to 3SS of water, dis- solved with in.viij—X of Acid. Sulph. dil. Poor, E.—Byshrasiu Malarica, audits causal relation to Acne, Furuncles, and Anthrax. Prag. Yjhrschr., Ixxvii, p. 17, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 183. Poor's observations were made in the malarious districts of Hungary. He states—(i) that febrile dyscrasia and the above-mentioned cutaneous