334 UEPORT ON SUHGEUY. balance is obtained. On the other hand, valgus is treated by giving greater effect to the anterior and posterior tibials; in severe cases to both, iu milder cases to the former only. Two tins and two wire loops should be used, except in the case of infants, when one tin, broader above than below, and one broad loop, will suffice. The common and very inconvenient deformity called flat foot may be conquered in a week or two by supplying power to the tibialis anticus, and the treatment relieves the patieut oi pain so completely that one who limps to the surgeon will walk away upright and freely. Nothing has struck me with greater astonishment than to observe that tenotomists counsel the division of this tendon; for this muscle, above all others, is that which, by lifting the inner cuneiform and metatarsal bones from the ground, keeps up the arch of the foot, and aids in preventing the outward twist of valgus, which is always more or less present in flat-foot. One reads in books that this painful affection is produced by relaxation of the ligaments, although it is well known that the ligaments are merely secondary assistants to the muscles, and that their yielding is only an effect, and not a cause. Even the elongation of the plantar fascia is in these cases simply a sequence of muscular debility. " In equino-varus or equino-valgus, it may be necessary to div'ide the tendo Achillis, but only when the extension is severe and well marked; otherwise the treatment should be undertaken for the other tendons, as though no equinal deformity were present. " In treating an infant, very little force is required, certainly less than when n sabot is used, since it is applied in the normal direction. During the first few hours, it is well to apply less force than is intended to be used in the subsequent treatment. I have never found the amount of pressure influence the growth of the bones. If the child be old enough to walk, he should be encouraged to do so as soon as the treatment begins to have any effect on the posture of the limb ; since the weight of the body will then aid in the cute. This ia.further advisable for the following reasonsi When deformities are treated by irons and shoes, which confine the bones of the foot, the muscles remain inactive, and merely contract to their new position in a passive manner ; such distor- tions, when the limb is again used, are very apt to return. To combine exercise with the treatment above indicated increases the muscles ; they accustom themselves to activity in their new relations; when the apparatus is discontinued, the deformity has no tendency to return. Lastly, the faiUty posture must be somewhat reversed, and the patient encouraged to walk with the foot in its new position before the treat- ment is finally abandoned." Mr. Brodhurst, in describing the treatment of spinal curvature (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 253), demonstrates the necessity of attending to the cause, and modifying the mechanical means accordingly. " The treatment of spinal curvature must vary as the cause which induced it varies. Unfortunately for orthopaedic surgery, it has been too much the habit to treat every form of spinal curvature, whether induced by immoderate use of an upper extremity or by deficient length of a lower extremity or by thoracic disease or other cause, after the same fashion ;