SULPHUKIC ACID. were observed in the duodenum, and in another small cicatrices. The ileum and colon were found inflamed in Case 3 ; but this aflec^on was quite recent, and probably was caused by the marasmus. The larynx was affected more or less in four cases; in the third case cica- trices were found in its posterior wall. CEdema glottidis was feared in two cases, and the instruments for tracheotomy were got ready. It •was observed, however, that the dyspnoea became much less when the patient was placed upright and made to cough, and examination with the finger showed that there was no great swelling; so that it vras evident that the alarming symptoms Avere caused by the buccal fluids flowing backwards into the larynx. The trachea and bronchi were found partly covered by a croupy membrane in Case 5, and lobular pneumonia was also present, which may have been caused by portions of the membrane getting detached and being carried down into the larger tubes. The blood examined in one of the cases during life was alkaline ; twa days after death in this instance it was found to be neutral, and as decomposition came on it became acid. A feebly acid reaction was observed in the muscles and also in the brain-substance in the fifth case. An increased quantity of sulphuric acid was found in the ui'ine in Cases 3, 4 and 5. It appeared to be in combination partly with lime, partly with alkalies. The excess would probably be greater than it is, ii the destruction of the mucous membrane of the stomach did not retard the absorption of the acid into the blood. The greatest increase occurred within five hours after the poison was taken, and it had disappeared by the fifth day after that time. Albumen was found in the urine in the last three cases, in the others it was not looked for. In two cases transparent casts containing fine detritus-granules were also observed. Like the excess of acid, the albumen reached its maximum five hours after the ingestion of the poison, and it disappeared in two of the cases on the second day; in the other case on the third. Its presence is accounted for by ascribing it to a change in the diffusion-relations between the blood and the kidneys, caused by the presence of the sulphuric acid in the blood, and by its passing into the urine. In the third case the urine was found to be again albuminous on the ninth day and in the fourth case on the twentieth. Cylinders containing granules of urates, and on one day blood-discs, were also noticed ; and after death the cortical substance of the kidney was found inflamed, with swelling of the interstitial tissue. The uriniferous tubules contained detritus ; the epithelium was opaque from the presence of fine granules. Another effect not hitherto described was intercostal neuralgia. In the second case it was observed in the position of the sixth to the tenth ribs on the riglit side on the third day; in the fourth case at the same spot in. the fourth week. In the third case it was bilateral, afterwards affected the lumbar nerves also, was accompanied by hypersesthesia, and was followed gradually by extreme sensitiveness of the whole body. Physical examination showed that there was no disease of the chest in these cases. The tliree points of greatest intensity, insisted on by Yalleii,. were well marked; and as the neuralgia occurred in each case at the