288 IIEPOIIT OX SUllGEUY. the groin, including the region immediately above and below Poupart's ligament; and (2) tliose met with in the scrotum or labium. Among the tumours in the former situation may be enumerated enlarged glands, abscesses, imperfectly descended testis, hydrocele and hematocele of the cord, adipose tumour of tlie cord, the fibrous tumour of tlie iliac fossa of N^latoii, occurring only in females, aneurism, and dislocation of the femur upon tlie pubes. The tumours in the scrotum or labium ai'e hydrocele, common and encysted, hscmatocele, varicocele, sarcocele, and other tumours of the testis or cord ; and in the female, cysts and chronic abscesses of or in. the labium. He explains and illustrates by cases the difl'erential diagnosis of these aifections, very justly laying stress on percussion, as a means of extreme value in the determination of some difficult cases. " Hydrocele of the cord, whether encysted oi- diffused, bears some resemblance to hernia: a movable tumour, circumscribed in the one case, diflused in the other, occupies the inguinal canal, and, perliaps, the upper part of the scrotum, and can be pushed towards the abdominal and scrotal cavities, but not completely into them, as, indeed, is the case with an irreducible bubonocele. The difference con- sists in this—the hydrocele is fluctuating to the touch and dull on percussion, whilst the hernia is either elastic to the feel, resonant on percussion, and has a distinct impulse communicated to it on coughing, in which case it is intestine ; or it is neither elastic, resonant, nor fluctu- ating, but doughy to the feel, in which case it is omentum. The chief points in which a hematocele of the cord differs from a hydrocele of the same part are—(i) the mode of its occurrence, coming on sud- denly after violent exertion or a blow on the part; (2) the occasional presence of ecchymosis ; and (3) the indistinctness of the fluctuation." Mr. Holthouse gives a very necessary caution against being in too great haste to operate, even in cases of undoubted hernia. " I was called up by a surgeon a few nights ago to see a case of strangulated . hernia, and was requested to bring my instruments with me, as he thought there was no time to be lost. I found'a tolerably large scrotal rupture ; it was tense and somewhat sensitive to handling, and attended with a sensation of dragging in the abdomen. The patient had been the subject of hernia for many years, but had always been able to reduce it till about fourteen hours before I saw him. From this time all the eftorts both of himself and his surgeon had proved unavailing. I put him under chloroform, and tried the taxis for about fifteen minutes, but was not successful in returning the rupture. I declined, however, to operate, becavise there were really no symptoms of strangulation present; the hernia was for the time irreducible, but it was not stran- gulated. A pill of two grains of opium was therefore prescribed, and ice was directed to be applied to the tumour. Before eight o'clock the next morning the hernia had gone back of its own accord." M. Nelaton, clinical lecture on a case of strangulated femoral Jiernia (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 166).—Yesterday morning there was admitted a woman of 56, who for a dozen years has had a femoral hernia on the right side, imperfectly supported by a bad truss. This rupture escaped from time to time, but returned readily. Nine days ago it made its appearance of larger size than usual, and could not be reduced