TttEATMEXT OF OSTEOSIYELITIS. 319 As to the diagnosis, the author cannot agree with those who hold it impossible to recognise the disease till after division of the soft parts ; he therefore recapitulates the symptoms in short once more, and shows that they almost always suffice for a satisfactory diagnosis. He lays special weight on the lustory as a means of distinguishing primary from secondary phlegmon or periostitis. Acupuncture ('Tear-book,' 1862, p. 258) and examination with tlie trochar may, even at an early stage, decide as to the condition of the bone. Treatment.—In opposition to other surgeons, who vehemently recom- mend immediate and free division of the soft parts down to the bone, Demme considers it a rule, that free and deep incisions should never be made during the acute, progressive stage of osteomyelitis diffusa, not until the disease has become stationary or chronic. _ This maxim finds its justification in the clinical experience and pathological researches of the author. Thus, the first indication for treatment is to induce as soon as possible, a more quiescent chronic course, which is a necessary condition for the success of. any ulterior incision. General and local bloodletting, poulticing, and blistering are quite tincalculated to di- minish the acuteness of the process; the author has had no personal experience of cauterisation or of the assiduous use of cold. On the other hand he has had abundant opportunities to observe the decided action of iodine, locally applied, in cases of osteomyelitis at every stage. He employs a solution of iodine, containing sixty to sixty-five grains to the ounce of alchohol (96—98 per cent.) ; it is applied by a brush till an intense, bluish-black colour is produced, and always over a larger space than that of the disease ; he covers it with cotton-wool or wadding, or with a compress soaked in common oil to alleviate the pain; should vesication occur, he uses lead, alum, or opium solutions. The iodine must be painted on at least every second day. The aiithor's experience is yet insufficient to decide as to temporary, subcutaneous evacuations of the pus by means of the trochar. A fundamental part of every treat- ment must be perfect rest of the whole limb, obtained by an immove- able bandage. The general treatment should be at firsb antifebrile, but yet not too active. As soon as the stationary period of the morbid pro- cess has commenced, the second part of the treatment must be initiated by a free, deep division of the soft parts. The aperture must be gene- rally made between the adductors, the gracilis, semimembranosus, and semitendinosus, or between the vastus externus and the biceps. The length of the incision averaged in the author's cases five to twelve inches; the depth must depend upon circumstances. The aperture is best made by cauterisation with the actual cautery, or the zinc paste; the use of the bistoury is objectionable, owing to the greater loss of blood, and the greater danger of pyfemic or septic£emic infection. It will be well, at all events, to cauterise the wound, when the knil'e has been employed. Chlorine and iodiue injections, &e., are afterwards indicated. Numerous facts prove the utility of directly opening the medullary canal by trepanning, in circumscribed suppurative osteomyelitis. The re- sulting necrosis requires the ordinary treatment; the joint-disease, prin- cipally a firm bandage and the local use of iodine; opening the joint can often be avoided. Methodical employment of passive motion is ad»