IlEPOUT ON SUllGEllY. 68 treatment of frco exudations in and on the tul)c and tympanic cavity. 7. Bougies can be passed into and through the Eustachian tube as far as the tym])auie cavity, by means of the catheter, and are decidedly required for tlie treatment of strictures of the tube. Dr. Kramer commenced his demonstrations by showing to the com- mittee a series of Eustachian catheters and bougies, liy means of an otoscope, provided with three ear-pieces, so that three members of the committee could listen at once, he pointed out thatѥ 1. The listeners hear a loud full blowing sound, which appears to arise close to their ears, when he blows through an Eustachian catheter into the end intended for the patient. 2. This sound is in no Avay changed, when a piece of goldbeater's skin is interposed between the apertures of the tube and the ear-pieces. 3. On the other hand, it becomes notably altered when a plug is placed at any point between the tube and the ear-piece, or when the tube is compressed at any point. In the former case no sound penetrates through the tube to the ear of the listener ; in the latter it becomes, according to the degree of compression, weaker and weaker, and at the same time more distant, until at length it entirely dis- appears. Dr. Kramer then presented a number of patients. 1. The full, blowing sound, which apparently arises close to the ear of the listener, was heard in one case by means of the otoscope when air was blown through the catheter introduced into the tube. 2. In another case Dr. Kramer showed that this full sound could not bo produced by blowing air through catheters jN'os. i and 2, but only through No. 3. 3. A female, in whom no sound could be heard through the otoscope when air was blown with the usual- intensity; when, however, air was forced more powerfully and for a longer period through higher number of the catheter, a weak (distant) sound was perceived, which increased in intensity, but then again became at times weaker, or entirely dis- appeared. It occurred by fits and starts, and gave the impression that there were some obstacles to the transmission of sound through the tube to the ear of the listener, and that these were occasionally removed or overcome by the blowing. 4. In another case air was blown in through No. 2 ; a weak-blowing sound was heard ; with No. 4 it was somewhat stronger, but did not attain by any means to the normal full sound. f,. Dr. Kramer also showed on another patient that the full sound could not be produced with Nos. i and 2, but only with No. 3. To demonstrate the passage of instruments into the tube (as far as the tympanic cavity). Dr. Kramer employed thin caoutchouc bougies. On these, white dots marked the spots which corresponded to the posterior aperture of the catheter when the point was at the anterior aperture, or ^, i, l i, and 2 inches beyond. Dr. Kramer was able, in three cases, to push the bougie through the catheter introduced into the tube as far as the third mark, so that its point must have projected beyond the end of the cuthctcr an inch and