UEPORT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 34< each witli a separate nucleus. Chambers thinks that each of the globules contains a centre of life, into which the pabulum passes from the outside, nourishing them and giving them means to increase in number. This increase of low quasi-parasitic life Chambers regards as an indication of lowered vitality. From the circumstance that mucous globules are tinged by solution of carmine throughout their whole substance, while the liquor muci in which they float is less stained, the lecturer draws the con- clusion that it is to be regarded as the formed substance of which the globules arc the nuclei, the parts which alone are capable of growth. Now if the mucin, or transparent medium in which the globules and granules float, stand in the place of fully-formed organic substance or cell, it will not retrograde into the condition of growing substance. Such a retro- gression does not happen in cells. In an epithelial scale, for instance, the transparent area does not become nucleus matter; But it transmits the nutriment to the nucleus inwards through its substance without being destroyed. On this supposition the formation of mucin will be the high- est development of the life of the globule, for it answers to the formation of tissue from nuclear matter. And in that case we should expect to find that the nearer its normal condition the morbid secretion can be collected, the more of this higher state of Ufe it would exhibit, and that the further from its normal condition it is, the less there would be of the formed matter. Such is the fact. Tne fluid which first forms on an inflamed surface contains few globules, and much stringy transparent medium. Its nuclear matter has so far departed from life, that it cannot form separate cells, but only an imperfect common area. But as the inflammation goes on, this power is still more and more lost; the nuclear matter cannot form the mucin, it can only multiply; and hence the stringiness of the mucus disappears, and it becomes what we know by the name of pus. As far as the morbid matter itself is concerned, pus indicates in it a further de- ficiency of vitality than mucus—a deficiency of vitality shown for it in its internal self-multiplication, and secondly in its non-production of mucin. From observations of Sanderson, Buhl, and Remak, Ciiambers draws the conclusion that pus corpuscles are not so much descendants of epithelial cells as what may be called parasitic formations within them. They are parasites inside the epithelial cells, capable of increase by propagation within the tissue, just as on the surface the mucous globules were shown as parasites capable of increase by propagation without the tissue. And they grow quite independent of the true nucleus of the cell, and not derived from it. Thus the nuclear material may pass through the sub- stance of the epithelial coat of mucous membrane without destroying it, and not only be itself unaltered, but may increase in quantity during the progress. This is one way in which the pus-material may reach the surface, and explains those cases in which the epithelium is quite unin- jured. The transit of one apparently solid body through another equally so Chambers explains by considering them both as gelatinous. He also admits after Henle that pus and mucus corpuscles may be developed from plasma beneath the epithelial layer, and may make their w'ay to the surface by disruption of the latter. As to the early condition of pus Chambers speculates as follows : " the same elementary substance which appears in integumentary tissues as the common material of the various