OPEUATIVB TEEATSIliN'T 01-' NECROSIS. base ot* the bone, aud the danger of wounding the plantar artery; the hitter injury must be most carefully avoided, because it is almost im-^ ])ossible to ligature the vessel owing to the depth and narrowness of the wound, and plugging frustrates the conservative aim of the operation. It is only by keeping witliin the periosteum whilst separating the bone, a proceeding very troublesome in this case, that such a mishap can with certainty be avoided,—tlie subperiosteal method is therefore de- cidedly the one to be adopted. Since, however, the necrosis is quite peculiar in its form, at least has been in tlie six cases which the author has seen, a more simple method, by whicli the very tedious separation of the bone from the scaphoid might be avoided, would probably ansvrer. In all six cases, the excised bone was found to be indurated and thick- ened towards each extremity, at its middle to contain a cavity as large as a nut, in which were fine, granular detritus, and fragments of dead bone. This cavity always communicated with an adjacent fistula. It would probably suflGice to excise this central portion alone, for the rest of the bone, though not healthy, still appears capable of living, and the essential disease, from which the ulceration proceeds, is limited to the cavity; it might be sufficient even, in favorable cases, to merely clear out the canty {ividement of Sedillot). The author intends to try such a simple method in his next case. Necrosis of the jaw, and especially of the lower jaw, is a subject of great interest. Circumscribed partial necrosis requires simple extrac- tion ; the only point to be mentioned is, that the operation should, aa the rule, be performed from the interior of the mouth, aud therefore be commenced with detaching the gum, the exception being where large, external fistulas render it useless to spare the skin of the face. The side of the face is not uncommonly so much swollen in cases of very limited necrosis, that the whole half of the bone is considered to be quite dead, and the error is not discovered till the bone has been laid bare. Such an error might have most unfortunate results for the patient. Extensive incisions might be made, or even a large flap dissected up, before the slight extent of the disease is discovered. The simplest and least injurious manner of determining the extent of the disease is by de- tachment of the mucous covering, a proceeding which does not in the least compromise the completion of the operation. A soldier, set. 24 years, was admitted into the military clinic, with ])eriostitis of the lower jaw, said to have been caused by the extraction of a carious molar tooth. There were two apertures in the neck, through wliich the bone could be felt to be bare to a considerable extent; the disease made rapid progress, and in a short time the whole of the right side of the lower jaw had become so swollen, that no doubt seemed to remain that the necrosis extended as far as the joint. A most careful examination appeared to show the necessity of dividing the jaw in front of the second bicuspid, and exarticulating. In accordance, however, with the princi))le just given, the operation was commenced by separating the gum from the outer side of the alveolar process ; the periosteum was also dissected off" as far as the angle of the jaw ; it was then clear that the necrosis was limited to the external lamella and a little part of the alveolar process, so that the operation ended in a simple extraction of