NERVOUS SYSTEM. 73 There is reason to believe that the state of muscular relaxation is not disturbed by contraction in cases where it may be supposed that the muscles receive an increased supply of nervous influence. (43) There is reason to believe that the state of muscular relaxation is more readily dis- turbed by contraction, and that the contraction itself is more powerful, when the muscles are receiving a diminished supply of nervous influence. An experiment by Dr. Brown-Sequard shows that the reflex contractions which may be produced in the hind leg of a frog by pinching the toes are capable of raising a heavier weiglit after the leg is liberated from the con- trol of the brain and medulla oblongata by dividing the spinal cord low down in the cervical region. The Aveights raised before the division in two frogs were 60 grammes; in twenty-four hours after, 150. (44) It is difficult to believe that nervous influence produces the state of convulsive contraction by playing the part of a stimulus to a vital property of irrita- bility in muscle or nerve. (45) There is reason to believe that the part which is played by nervous influence in the process of muscular motion is similar to that which is played by the natural electricity of the nervous system in the same process, and that the former agent may act through the instrumentality of the latter. (46) There is even reason to believe that the will avails itself of the aid of the natural electricity of the nervous system in playing the part it has to play in the process of mus- cular motion. Natural electricity, as shown by Du Bois Reymond, becomes latent in every act of voluntary muscular contraction. (47) When a muscle or motor nerve is thrown into a sta^e of action by me- chanical or chemical causes, or by heat or cold or light, there is reason to believe that this result is brought about through the instrumentality of the natural electricity of the muscle or nerve ; for it is a fact that the state of action thus produced is marked by disappearance of natural electricit}^ and by the contemporaneous development of instantaneous electrical cur- rents of high tension. (48) One conclusion which appears to arise out of the foregoing premises is, that living muscle, when left to itself, is kept in a state of 7-elaxation by the action of the natiu-al electricity of the muscle. (49) Another conclusion is, that muscle jmsses out of the state of relaxation into that of contraction when the attractive force which is inherent in the physical constitution of the muscular mole- cules is no longer antagonised by the action of the natural electricity of the muscle. (50) A third conclusion is, that the natural electricity which antagonises cotitraction is extinguished for the jnoment by the in- stantaneous electrical currents of high teiision {analogous to the discharges of the torpedo) which are developed when muscle or motor nerve passes from the state of inaction into that of action, and that ordinary muscular contraction is brought about in this way. (51) A fourth conclusion is, that the natural electricity which antagonises contraction is extinguished permanently at a certain time after death, and that the permanent con- traction of rigor mortis is brought about in this loay. (52) This theory of muscular motion is not contradicted by any peculiarity in the law of muscular contraction which does not admit of a physical explanation. (53) This theory of muscular motion is not contradicted by the fact that dead muscle is less strong and tough than living muscle, for this pheno- menon admits of a physical explanation. (54) The same may be said of