210 IlEPOttT ON SUllGJiliy. vessel was enormously dilated, larger indeed than the aorta, and its walls were very thin. As secondary lia;inorrhnge would, under such conditions, be certain to ensue, Broca punctured tlic artery imme- diately above the ligature with Pravaz' trocliar, compressed the vessel three centimetres higher by the finger, and injected fitteen drops ol'tlie perchloride of iron. It is known tliafc the blood begins to coagulate when in contact with the perchloride, in thirty seconds ; in this case, no clot had been produced in ten minutes, evidently owing to tlie com- pression being imperlect, and the blood escaping in and out. A trijde thread was passed under the artery, three centimetres above the first ligature, and thus the vessel could be somewhat raised, and accu- rately compressed. Twenty drops were now injected, and caused rapid coagulation, the whole of the space between the ligatures becomnig filled with a very firm clot, larger than the thumb. Tiie triple thread, for greater safety, \vas tied in a bow over a small roll of plaster, and not removed till the following day. On the amputation being per- formed, only one small artery in the bono bled. The patient died four days after the operation from a gangrene of the stump and wall of the chest, a gangrene very pi-obably caused by clots furnished by tlie first injection. However that may be, Broca is of opinion that the idea which he has put into execution, the idea of protecting the ligature by means of a chemical clot, may receive useful application in similar cases, where it becomes necessary to tie very voluminous and diseased arteries. Experience has shown that, under sucb circumstances, secondary hiemorrhage is inevitable, and therefore some other means, more efiicacious than the ligature, must be employed. From the point of amputation to the bend of the elbow, the artery was cylindrical, and uniformly dilated ; its circumference measured eight}'-six millimetres, and the humerus at the same level only sixty-eight millimetres. C. Charnal, case of arterio-venous aneurism of the elbow (' Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' v, 202), and report by P. Broca (ib.,p. 209). G. Lowe, case of quadruple external aneurism ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 186a, ii, 382). C. de Morgan, case of rapid spontaneous cure of popliteal (ib., pp. 54J, 568). M. Chassaignac, case cured by digital compression (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 487). M. Vanzetti, cases treated by digital compression (ib., p. 519). E. Hamilton, aneurism of ulnar, &c. (' Dubl. Quart. Jouru.,''xxxiv, 295). M. Leudesdorf, aneurism of the radial, cured by digital pressure ('Arch. f. Kliu. Chir.,' iii, 415). Mr. Bickersteth, axillary aneurism treated by opening the sac (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 16). EMBOLISir. Prof. Panum, experimental researches on embolism (' Arch. f. path. Anat.,' XXV, 308, 433). Prom a long series of experiments he has found, that the heart continues its rhythmical contractions for several hours after the coronary arteries have been perfectly filled with a wax injection, a fact of some importance in regard to one interpretation of the eftects of air passing into the veins. In sudden death from pul- monary embolism, the symptoms are the same as in death from cerebral