EEPOET ON MIDWlFEIlTj ETC. born living. All tliree mothers recovered. Dr. West combats the opi- niou that turning in twin births with placenta prajvia, or with hajmor- rhage during labour, is dangerous, and liable to be followed by post- partum hfflmorrhage or collapse; and believes that these may generally be averted by delivering slowly, i. e., by making no traction al'ter the breech has reached the perinscum. ABNOEMAL PBESENTATIONS. Dr. Eamsbotham, "Clinical Midwifery" ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' vol. i, 1863, p. 4), relates seven cases of transverse presentation, which occurred in his practice during 1843 and 1844. In three of these cases turning was performed, and two of the children were born alive; in two cases evisceration was performed. In one case spontaneous evolution occurred ; the child dead. In another case the result is not stated. Of the mothers, five recovered, one died from gangrenous tubercle of the uterus. Of the children, two recovered and four died. The author dissents from the view held by Denman, that in cases of spon- taneous evolution the shoulder recedes into the uterus as the breech is expelled downwards, and is convinced that the shoulder does not recede, but is, on the contrary, thrust further and further externally in proportion as the breech descends into the pelvis. Dr. V. Hiiter, in a paper " On the Liberation of the Arms in Labours in which the Head is born last" ('Mon. f Geb.,' March, 1863), men- tions the various modes recommended by other authorities, and then describes his own mode of action. Grasping one or both thighs of the child, he makes traction downwards and forwards, turning them near the middle of the mother's abdomen, and so making the trunk revolve round the symphysis. The shoulder, which is most posterior, is thus lowered, and the elbow brought down within reach of the index and middle finger, and the arm libei'ated in the usual way. In order to liberate the second arm, the author adopts Von Eitgen's plan, which consists in giving a rotatory movement to the child on its long axis, the effect of which is to throw the arm across its breast. Professor Lazzati ('Annali Dniv. di Med.,' Aug., 1863, and 'B. and P. Med.-Chir. Eev.,' Oct., 1863) maintaius that in the so-called trans- verse presentations, when the arm or shoulder presents, the foetus really occupies an oblique position in the uterus. During the last three months of iitero-gestation, and especially during the eighth and ninth, the development of the foetus is such that the length of its occipito- coccygeal diameter exceeds that of the transverse or antero-posterior diameter of the uterus. The foetal occipito-coccygeal diameter is ten and a half to twelve inches. The longitudinal diameter of the uterus is twelve and a half to thirteen inches, while the greatest transverse diameter is only eight to ten inches; and the transverse diameter of the inferior segment only seven and a half inches. This being admitted, and all due allowance made for the variations in these measurements, for the flexibility of the body of the foetus.