KEPOllT ON StTEGERY. uever thoroughly empties his hladder, but leaves a constant residuum of urine, has been entirely overlooked. The following is a good case in point:—Mr. P residing on tlie south coast, consulted me last year in consequence of frequency of micturition, which necessitated his relieving himself every three-quarters of an hour, both night and day. His health was greatly impaired from want of rest, he was very irritable, and had pain over the pubes and excessive thirst, lie had consulted several surgeons, who had prescribed various remedies without relief A careful inquiry into the history of the case, assured me that the bladder remained always more or less permanently full, although the ordinary quantity of urine was passed during tiie twenty-four hours, and although his urethra readily admitted, as he told me, a No. lo catheter. He had no power of ejecting the urine any distance from his lodi/, but it came away in a dribbling, uncertain stream, wliich dropped down between the legs. I desired him to micturate before me, when only about an ounce escaped ; but upon introducing a catheter, I drew off five ounces of offensive iirine, and upon injecting the bladder with Avarm water found that it would not hold more than six ounces. The nature of the case was thus obvious; for six months this gentleman had been suffering from retention of urine, although he passed as much during the twenty-four hours as the kidneys secreted. I desired him to pass his catheter every six hours, and to wash out the bladder every night, gradually increasing the quantity of water injected, so as, if possible, to distend the bladder eventually to its normal capacity. He was ordered to live well and take wine (from which he had previously been debarred), with the tincture of steel twice a day. In a few days he had so far improved as not to require to pass urine more frequently than every four hours, and he now has improved materially in general health ; his thirst has entirely subsided, and he has gained flesh, whilst the capacity has so improved that he has to relieve himself only once during the night. It is more than probable that this gentleman's bladder may never recover its tone, and that the error of treatment committed will necessitate the constant use of a cathether for the rest of Ms life ; but as he has gained some slight power of expulsion during the last few weeks, it is just possible that we may alleviate his unfortunate condition." " The diagnosis between retention and suppression is so very easy as to render a mistake perfectly inexcusable. In retention there is the urgent desire to micturate, accompanied with violent spasms, not only of the urethra and perineum, but of the whole abdominal wall; and as time elapses, the imjency increases, the patient rolling in agony, and straining violently to relieve himself Besides, the surgeon's hand will at once detect the solid tumour above the pubes, formed by the distended bladder, which will yield a dull sound on percussion. In suppression of urine, on the contrary, there is no urgent desire to micturate, no spasm, and no agony consequent on a distended bladder; but the patient lies in a listless condition, soon passing into coma, whilst the breatli and skin exhale a strong in-inous smell. Moreover, the bladder will be found empty, and the fingers can be thrust nito the pelvis, where the intestines yield a clear percussion sound. It must not