CIECULATOUY SYSTEM. 0 1?9 depressed, or tlie heart is placed vertically or horizontally, without any pericardial adhesion. Lancereaux.— On Ulcerous Endocarditis. Gaz. de Paris, 42, 43, 45, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 31. In a male patient, set. 44, dying with pneumonia, the mitral valve M'as found thickened and lengthened, covered with granular fibrine, on the removal of which a tumour as large as a pea came into view, which contained a yellowish fluid. Glomeruli and pus-corpuscles were found in this fluid. There were, besides, two excavations on the valve of the same size. The aorta, its valves, and the right heart, were healthy. There was a firm yellow plug in one large division of the splenic artery, and a patch of softening of the size of a hen's egg in the spleen. The right lung was in a state of lobular pneumonia, with oedema and pleural efi"usion. Lancereaux remarks that the valvular suppuration had given rise to the pyaemia. In a second case, where the left side of the heart was hypertrophied, the mitral valves were thickened, and the aortic covered with thick vegeta- tions. From these altered valves, on section, there issued a thickish yellow fluid, consisting of pus and blood. Both lungs were completely cedematous. The patient had had attacks resembling those of inter- mittent fever for about twelve days, and had actually had intermittent for three months, seven years previously. In a third case the patient had been ill several days, with a sense of distress and pain in the epigastrium ; a severe rigor ensued, followed by vomiting and diarrhoea. During the last two days of life there was icterus, with stupor and adynamia. The lungs were cedematous and carnified, the hepatic cells were more or less destroyed, and several branches of the hepatic artery plugged up. Spleen enlarged and rotten, a branch of its artery corresponding to a firm infarctum blocked up. The kidneys also were in a similar state. The mitral valve was elongated and thickened, yellow coloured, and much injected, and presented a patch of ulceration as large as the tip of a finger, and a small abscess. In the blood of the femoral and certain other arte- ries were found various granules, corpuscles, and fragments of connective tissue similar to those contained in the abscess. Lancereaux remarks on the not unfrequent occurrence of ulcerous endocarditis in pregnant and lying-in women, and states that the pysemic disease which it produces is to be distinguished from intermittent fever by the want of complete apyrexia between the paroxysms. Skoda.—On Temporary Insufficiency of the Valves. Allg. Wieu. Med. Ztg., viii, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 35. Skoda records a case of typhoid fever, proving fatal, where the valves were found healthy, though during life there had been a systolic bruit over the left ventricle, with intensification of the second sound of the pulmonary artery. He ascribes the murmur and valvular insulEciency to paralysis of the musculi papillares, and states that the same occurs occasionally in cases of hysteria, chorea, and epilepsy. The patients have palpitations, severe dyspnoea, and appear in danger of dying, but suddenly recover completely. '