871 ILEJrOEEHAGE TRANSFUSION. the statistics of lying-in hospitals in determining the comparative frequency of cases of placenta prteria, since these are much more com- monly met with in multipart than in primiparse, whereas the latter class form a large proportion of all the patients in lying-in institutions. Tlie author thinks that this condition occurs at least twice as frequently as is represented in hospitals, and, from his own observations, finds the actual proportion to be about i to every 250 or 300 cases. While admitting the value of Dr. Barnes's plan of separating all that portion of the placenta which adheres to the cervical zone of the uterus, the author maintains that the haemorrhage is arrested, not by the normal contraction of the uterus, but by the crushing or contusion to which the placenta and mouth of the womb are subjected by this process. The author's mode of practice—which seems entirely based on the hy pothesis that the hjemorrliage arises only from the placenta—consists in intro- ducing one or two fingers into the cervix, between the placenta and the uterus, and crushing the former as much as possible, while the uterine wall is lightly pressed. By this means, the haemorrhage ceases at once, according to the author, and does not return again in the course of the labour, whether delivery is efiected naturally or artifici- ally, quickly or slowly, and the result is said to be most favorable to both mother and child. Dr. "Williams records a case in which the placenta was found par- tially detached and lying in the vagina, with profuse haemorrhage. The placenta was removed, and haemorrhage ceased at once; the child was delivered naturally two hours after, and the mother recovered well. ('Med. Times,' ii, 1865, p. 214.) Prof Schule, in some remarks on the management of the placenta, based on 300 observations, explains the method practised in the clinical institution. This method is virtually the same as that long practised at the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, but seems to have been hitherto little known in Germany until Crede and Spiegelberg referred to it. Im- mediately after the expulsion of the head of the child the right hand is laid on the mother's abdomen, over the fundus of the uterus, and, with slight pressure, made to follow this down as it gradually empties itself. If the placenta should not be expelled after waiting ten or fifteen minutes, the fundus of the uterus should be firmly grasped— without any kneading or rubbing—and pressure made directly back- wards, when the placenta, in the great majority of cases, will be found to have passed into the vagina, or even be expelled beyond the vulva. In all the 300 cases noted by the author the above method was practised with the best results. All the placentae, without exception, were per- fect, and had no trace of any separation or rupture, and the membranes were in all cases perfect. HJEMOBRHA&E—TEANSrUSION. Dr. Braxton Hicks records two cases of transfusion (' Lancet,' vol. i, 1863, p. 265). In the first case the woman, in whom there was no history of syphilis, had had six children, and with the last four