UliETHllAL FEVER. 305 passage of a bougie, &c., and not uufrequentl)^ recur on four or five successive days. The severe attacks may be again subdivided into— (1) Those, where the patient is not affected by any serious chronic disease of the geuito-urinary organs. (2) Fulminating attacks, rapidly causing death. (3) Those complicated with some serious disease of the genito- urinary organs. In these forms, the cold stage is often very prolonged, and followed by other alarmiug symptoms, such as stupor or delirium, difficult breathing or even ijneumonia, tympanitis, constipation, vomiting, or diarrhoea. It must be noticed that, in many cases of disease of tho genito-urinary organs, attacks of intermittent, or of slight continued fever occur before any surgical treatment has been employed. It may be taken as a general principle in respect to the prognosis, that wheu well-marked hot and sweating stages succeed the rigor the patient almost always recovers; and, on the other hand, that where moderate reaction does not take place an unfavourable result must be dreaded. Treatment.—M. Eicord, who for a long time denied the value of sulphate of quinine in urethral fever, now administers it as a preventive in all cases, where he is about to perform an operation on the urethra. He gives it for four or five days before the operation to the amount of forty or fifty centigr. (6 to 7 grains) daily, if the patient is young, and has not had previously any attack either from catheterism, or owing to malaria; in the latter cases, or if the patient is old and weak, it may be increased to seventy or eighty centigr. (11 to 12 grains) in the twenty- four hours. Mr. Long has recommended the tincture of aconite (' Liverpool Med.-Chir. Journ.,' Jan., 1858). Civiale has for a long period urged preliminary treatment by soft bougies, as a means of preventing further complications—a method advised also by Mr. Henry Thompson. As to the curative treatment, rest, and sucb means as promote the sweating stage, will alone be demanded in slight cases. In the more serious forms, fifty centigr. (8 grains) of quinine should be swallowed immediately after the attack, and the same dose should be given per anvm. If the attacks recur, the dose of the medicine should be in- creased, till several grammes are given in the twenty-four hours (i gramme= 15-43 grains Engl.). Large doses should be given iu enemas, and not by the mouth. In a case of urethral fever, related by M. Bricheteau, the sulphate, which had been gradually augmented to a gramme, excited nervous symptoms and gastric derangement, and was therefore stopped: three days later, as the fever had become more intense, two grammes were given in an enema—the fever ceased. One or two hours in the day and ten or twelve iu the night should be left between eacb dose; in serious cases the quantity must be gradually increased, till toxic nervous symptoms make their appearance. The quinine must be given by the skin, if the patient has constant vomiting or diarrhcea. The fever, which occurs independently of an operation, is unaffected by quinine, and its only certain treatment is by attention to the disease on which it depends. This is well shown in a case of dysuria, which 20