ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 481 is the reason, according to Albers, why, when coma and paralysis have once occurred in cases of poisoning by opium, recovery is so rare. 4. Opium acts much more quickly than morphia, and it also affects much more the cerebral functions. Albers also coincides with Oesterlen in thinking that morphia produces nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, convul- sions, and tonic spasms, far more frequently than opium. He has him- self treated patients of an irritable nature, in whom the smallest dose of morphia has produced sickness. He says that it is much less certain than opium as a soporific agent. It is to the presence of narcotine and meconin in opium that these differences between the action of opium and that of morphia are principally due. The use of narcotine is espe- cially indicated in cases of sleeplessness. According to Albers, the English "black drop " contains a preponderating quantity of this prin- ciple. He is inclined to attribute the fact observed by^Magendie, that the residue of opium left after the extraction of the morphia possesses but very slight narcotic properties to some accidental peculiarity in the opium used. It does not appear that Magendie experimented with more than one kind of opium. In these experiments with the different opium principles, Albers observed nothing which confirmed the state- ment of Orfila, that opium and morphia exert their influence especially on the hinder limbs, as compared with codeia. The imcertainty of the action of the different preparations and kinds of opium is generally attributed to peculiarities in the disease for which it is given, or in the patient to whom it is prescribed. Albers is inclined to ascribe it to the varying chemical constitution of the opium employed. Not only is this drug very liable to adulteration, but it is also frequently sold after its morphia has been extracted. He advises that experiments should be made on frogs with each specimen of opium before it is given to patients. Every effect which is produced by the bases or the acid contained in this drug will, he says, display itself in this way, and the proportion of the different principles may be estimated by the character of the actions produced. He thinks that it is indisputably proved that the operation of this drug on warm-blooded animals and on man is exactly the same as on frogs. Mr. "Winterbotham ('Lancet,' 1863, vol. i, p. 8) records the recovery of a child, aged two years and three months, from very severe symptoms caused by swixUowing a grain of acetate of morphia. Free vomiting was induced by a zinc emetic, and coffee was given. Dr. M. Mackensie ('Med. Tim. and G-az.,' vol. i, 1863, p, 278) relates a case in which a liniment containing two ounces of tincture of opium was injected into the rectum. A semi-comatose condition was produced, with extreme contraction of the pupils ; but recovery took place without any artificial means being adopted to keep the brain in a state of activity. A fatal case of poisoning by three grains of morphia injected into the rectum is communicated by Dr. Anstie to the 'Med. Tini. and G-az.' (1863, vol.i, p. 134). Ten hours after the administration of the drug the patient was .found insensible, with the usual symptoms. Twenty grains of Morson's caffeine were given by mouth, with temporary advantage; the pulse, previously scarcely perceptible, rose to a fair strength, beating 100 in the minute; the limbs became warmer, and consciousness re-