llliPOttT OX I'llACTICAL MEUICINK. the bone. This may ossify, producing enlargement or hypertrophy of the part; or if ulceration takca place, a caries results. Oi'i'OLZUii.—S!/i)hi/U of the Liver. Wieu. Med. Halle, 24, 27, 1863. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 120, p. 309. After relating a case, Oppolzer notices the diagnosis of this disease from, cirrhosis, cancer, and colloid infiltration. Cirrhosis is to be distinguished by the diminution of size, the unevenness of surface, and the history of spirit-drinking. From cancer it may be distinguished by the previous symptoms and the age, tliough not with certainty. The existence of colloid infiltration (waxy degeneration?) is made probable by the presence of tubera in the liver, and slight jaundice, considerable swelling of the spleen, and the previous occurrence of ague. Oppolzer himself has mistaken cases of syphilis of the liver for cancer, and published them as cures. The best remedy is Pot. lod. DiDAY.— On the Natural History of Sif/ihilia, Gaz. des Hopit., 30, 33, 36, 1863. Schmidt's Jabrb., vol. 120, p. 56. Diday M'ould restrict the term chancre to the hard form, would apply the term "chancrelle" to designate the soft, and chancroid to the sore produced in those already sypliilized by the pus from indurated ulcers. He believes that every instance of acquired syphilis commences in the same way; that the disease may get well without specific treatment, or relapse after such treatment, even when it has been conducted in the best manner ; and that there is no necessity for syphilis to advance to the tertiary period. These differences depend on the degree of intensity of the dis- ease, and this again depends on the quality and mode of communication of the poison, and on the age, temperament, and habits of the infected individual. Inherited syphilis is, he thinks, much more intense than acquired. Primary affections, which are less easily communicable, pro- duce also slighter forms of syphilis; thus, broad condylomata cause slighter disease than chancres. In the case of the infecting, indurating chancre, incubation lasts, on an average, fourteen days; in infecting flat tubercles twenty-nine days. Between the primary affection and the appearance of the first constitutional symptoms there is an interval in the case of chancre of fifty-seven, in tlie case of flat tubercles of seventy-four days. It is not rare for the (indurated) chancre to be neither indurated nor excoriated. The form it presents may not be the same as that of the chancre from which it is derived ; it rather depends on the individuality of the recipient. Alopecia, emaciation, and loss of ability for work, are the usual prodromata of constitutional symptoms. A simple roseola or an acne-like eruption on the head indicate that the syphilitic disorder is slight; while an impetigiuoid eruption, and a grayish, diphtheritic, and ulcerating appearance of condylomata, betoken a grave disease. Recru- descences, not relapses, indicate a greater intensity of syphilis, in pftpor- tion as tliey return more frequently and more early. With regard to treatment, Diday warns that we must not expect to eradicate the disease, but only to suppress its phenomena. He advises mercury to be used in actually indurated chancre, in recrudescences (as syphilitic eruptions, or iritis), and in hereditary syphilis. It is to be given as long after the