ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 4-23 Indian bark was also fonnd to contain kinovic acid, kinate of lime, gum, cinchona-red, &c. Bark of one year's growth yielded only 2-59 per cent, of alkaloids, which appeared to contain considerably less ciuchonine than the older specimen. Mr. Howard thinks that it will be advisable to cut the bark as soon as the stem has attained a thickness which will repay the expense of cultivation. It would be disadvantageous to allow the bark to reach such an age as is indicated by many of the specimens from South America, for a process of deterioration, connected with the oxida- tion of the red colouring matter, appears to be continually going on. Quinine was also obtained from the dried leaves, though only in very small quantity. A decoction or infusion of them may therefore be very useful in the cure of local fevers, though they cannot be used for the extraction of the alkaloid, in consequence of its implication with resinous matter. The leaves contain a considerable amount of kinovic acid. Mr. Howard believes that the alkaloids are produced by a re- action between the " mother substance " found in the heai't-wood, and carried up into the leaves by the circulation of the sap, and the ammo- nia, which, according to De Vry, is present in every part of the plant. The cinchona-red appears to be formed at the same time, and the pro- cess, begun in the leaves, probably goes on afterwards in tlie bark. M. Lautemann (' G-az. Med. Beige,' No. 44, 1863, p. 353) finds that quinic acid is converted into hippuric acid in the human organism. Having swallowed two drachms of quinate of lime overnight, he ana- lysed the urine passed in the morning, and obtained from it nearly thirty-four grains of hippuric acid. Benzoic acid is probably an inter- mediate stage in the metamorphosis; this acid may be obtained experi- mentally by the action of hydriodic acid or of iodide of phosphorus upon quinic acid, and it is well known to be convertible within tlie human body into hippuric acid. Dr. Kerner ('Schmidt,' 1863, No. i, p. 22; 'Sep. Abdr. aus der Ztschr. f. Anal. Chim. v. Fresenius,' 1862) says that the ordinary pro- cess for testing sulphate of quinine for the other cinchona-alkaloids (by means of ether and ammonia) is not free from the liability to error. The ether sometimes assumes a gelatinous condition, and when it con- tains air may have an almost crystalline appearance, which may mislead the observer. Moreover, there are cinchona-alkaloids which, though isomerous and partly also isomorphous with quinidine, differ from it in other properties, and are far more soluble in ether. Kerner, therefore, proposes another test, foimded on the fact that caustic solution of ammonia dissolves quinine very easily, while quinidine is much less soluble, and (3 and y quinidine are scarcely, and cinchonine not at all, acted on by it. The test is applied to saturated solutions of the suspected sulphate of quinine in water. If a small amount only of the other alkaloids be present, the effect may be increased by treating a large quantity of the salt to be tested with a limited quantity of water, since tne sulphates of cinchonine and quinidine dissolve more readily in water than the sulphate of quinine. The 'Union Mdd.' (No. 72, 1863) gives an account of three pre- parations of cmchona made by M. Ossian Henry. They are—(i) the standard wine of cinchona of constant composition; (2) the wine of