291 INTESTINAL GANGUENB. resembling omentum, came into view. As, however, it did not present the bluish-gray colour characteristic of the hernial sac, it waa incised, two other layers were divided, and the sac was exposed. It is very difficult to give in words any idea of the appearance of the latter; it must be seen. It does not differ from the outer layers by its slightly yellow and marbled colour, as has been asserted, but rather by its- being of a uniform bluish-gray; it most closely resembles in hue a vein seen through a very delicate stin, or some darkish body seen through a translucent substance. It was punctured ; a slightly viscous and bloody fluid escaped, and the aperture was enlarged upwards and doAvnwards. The sac contained omentum, which was placed, as is always the case, in front of the intestine, and which adhered partially to the walls of the sac. "We then met with some difficulty, o-wing to the depth to which the pedicle penetrated. The sac was drawn for- wards, and one side of it was helcl by an assistant; we then took hold of the other, and divided as far as we could with scissors. By such a proceeding we may occasionally succeed in relieving the strangulation; in the present case we were obliged to divide the stricture with a curved bistoury, to the extent of not more than two or three millimetres, and we then convinced ourselves, by passing the finger, that the dilatation was sufficient; if, in such a case, the index finger will pass through the aperture, you may be sure that the bowel will pass. Eeduction was readily performed. It will be advisable to remark on some portions of this operation. The escape of a sero-sanguineous fluid, as the various layers are suc- cessively divided, is a sign that the taxis has been tried quite long enough. Such a discharge may occasion errors in diagnosis, which may be followed by hasty treatment on the part of the surgeon; indeed, it may induce a belief that the sac is opened, the more because, after incising the supposed sac, a distinct and perfectly separate sphere is found, as in our patient. If reduction is then performed, both the hernia and the sac will be returned without relief to the strangulation, the only difference being that the seat of strangulation will be in the abdomen instead of externally. The loop of intestine was carefully examined; it was di'awn further out, so that we might satisfy ourselves of its integrity at the point of constriction. Occasionally, as you may remember, a little iilceration is found to correspond to the seat of stricture ; here it had not occurred, because the omentum had completely surrounded and pi'otected the bowel at that point; thus the gut was not immediately compressed, and had escaped in part the eftect of strangulation. There has been much dispute as to the anatomical characters of intestinal gangrene; it has been said that the bowel is of a brown colour, somewhat like that of a withered leaf. M. Nelaton, after the examination of a great number of strangulated heruise, has come to the following conclusion:—That the loop of bowel haviug'^been drawn down and the point of constriction carefully examined, if a portion is gangrenous or sloughing, it will be found to be macerated and im- pregnated with the intestinal fluid ; it toill then he of tJie same colour as the inlestinal contents. This is the matter which colours the gau-