UKPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATKllIA MEDICA, 4.1:0 feet were loaded with weiglits. The streugtli of liis liandH waa also impaired. The jnusculur actions of the woman Avere less aiiected. Schaper has recorded Bimilar sj'mptoms among the effecta of arsenic, and the probability that they arose from this cause in the present instance is, of course, increased by the resemblance which the two cases bore to each other. Another caae, which ran an acute course, is re- markable, because the patient, a girl, complained of no pain, though she suffered from diarrliam and vomiting. She Avas pregnant; and when the body was exhumed, the foetus was found lying between the thighs, with part of the membranes within the vagina. There is every reason to believe that its expulsion took place after the corpse was placed in the colBn. No trace of arsenic could be detected in the embryo. The duration of the mother's illness Avas fifty hoirrs. The question arose in a third case whether asiatic cholera Avas not in part the cause of death, there being at the time an epidemic of that disease. Casper ('Vjschrft.,' xxiii, p. 193) gives the details of a case in Avhicli two persons Avere convicted of murder, on account of the death of a Avoman under suspicious circumstances, in which he shows that the death was probably due to natural causes. The most prominent symp- toms were headache and drowsiness. Casper states that arsenic pro- duces cerebral symptoms only Avhen taken in a large dose, and immediately absorbed. In this case, however, only traces of arsenic Avere said to have been found in the viscera ; and no serious vomiting or diarrhoea had been present, by which the poison could have been removed from the body. Koffler C Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' p. 93, 1863) records the poisoning of 138 persons by arsenic, in consequence of a miller having washed his mill-stones with a solution of that substance in vinegar, and afterwards used tbem for grinding corn. One case only was fatal, that of a man, 65 years old. A pustular eruption was observed in many of the patients; it occurred over the whole body, but especially on the face Zenger (' Bull, de la Soc. Chim.,' ' Union Med.,' No. 62, 1863) recom- mends, for the detection of arsenic in organic compounds, the process of distillation with pure hydrochloric acid. Sulphuretted hydrogen gas is then passed into the distillate, and the sulphuret of arsenic so obtained is converted into arseniate of soda by nitric acid and nitrate of soda. The novelty of the process appears to be in the mode of obtaining the ring of metallic arsenic from the arseniate. Ten times its weight of oxalate of soda is added to this salt, and a little brick-dust to colour it. The mixture is then introduced into a tube tAvo to four millimetres in diameter, and above it is placed some pure oxalate of soda. To this white substance the heat is lirst applied. When it is fully decomposed tiic tube is sealed at the end prcA-iously open, and the red powder in the bottom of it is then heated. The arsenic which it con- tains is thus reduced under pressure, so that no loss of it can take place, and a Avell-defiued ring of the metal is obtained. Dr. Odling ('Jouni. of the Chem. Soc.,' July, 1863, p. 247) remarks that in testing the purity of the copper gauze or foil used m Ecmsch 3 process it is onlv necessary to act on four or five grains of copper, smce