58 HKPOUT ON PRACrrCAL irKDIOINE. internftlly, of benefit. lie lays down tlic following general conclusions : — (i) Mfiligimiit carbuncle (or pustule) never appears spontaneously in the human subject, but is always occasioned by contact \vilh a diseased ani- mal, (a) Infection only occurs when a wound or an excoriated spot comes in contact with the (lesli, blood, excrements, saliva, or moist hide of n diseased animal. (3) The contagion is destroyed by boiling heat. Meat, therefore, from a diseased carcass, after being well boiled or roasted, may be eaten with impunity. (4) The prognosis in most cases of the disease is favorable. (5) Cauterizations, or removal of the diseased structure by the knife, is of no avail four or five days after the formation of the characteristic pustule. Edmunds, J.—Case of Malignant Pustule. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 31st. A healthy male, aet. 50, went to bed perfectly well between 10 and 11 p.m. At midnight he was seized with a rigor, and at .3 a.m. his tongue was greatly swollen. At 11 a.m. his countenance indicated considerable distress and profound toxsemia; there was considerable swelling in the sublingual space, pushing upwards the tongue, which, as well as all the surrounding parts, was natural; the swelling was soft and yielding. The patient was very feeble, his pulse weak, his voice husky. Three or four days before, he had eaten some jugged hare, which was high, and had had at the same time a sore from a bad tooth beneath the tongue, where some of the meat lodged, and through which putrid infection might have occurred. The sublingual mass was deeply incised, but did not cut in the least like carbuncle, rather like soft flesh; no pus exuded, and no bleeding followed. Iodine was applied on lint, large doses of carb. ammonia given, with champagne ud libit. At 10 p.m. there was some improvement, but at midnight exactly, a second rigor occurred, the swelling increased enormously and there was a profuse blackish discharge. Death occurred at 3 a.m. Edmunds remarks that the case materially differs from those of malignant pustule. BuDD, W., M.D.—Observations on the occurrence of Malignant Pustule in Engla7id, illustrated by numerous fatal cases. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 24th, 3i8t, Feb. 14th, March 7th. (v. 'Year Book' for 1863, P- 51)- FTjINT, a.—A Contribution toward the Natural Histoiy of Articular Rheumatism, consisting of a Report of Cases treated solely loith Palliative Measures. Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., July, 1863. In all the cases the patients had small or moderate doses of opium, dry flannel to the affected joints, with liniments of opium, aconite, or camphor. All but one had tincture of quassia, largely diluted, inter- nally, as a placebo ; the exception had gr. ij of quinine daily. In all but two cases the disease was acute, in two it was subacute. The duration of the disease, from the date of its attack to convalescence (excluding the case complicated with pericarditis and pneumonia), varied between 12 and 56 days. Tiie duration was under 15 days in 3 cases, over 15 »nd under 20 days in i case, between 20 and 25 days in 3 cases, between