434 REPORT O.N TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. may take ])lace post mortem, for dead and decomposing animal matter is capable of effecting this chemical change. Its occurrence during life would be remarkable, because aniline itself undergoes oxidation upon the surface of the body, and mauve or Magenta-purple is produced. This has been observed in a case of poisoning by aniline, and also during the medi- cinal use of the sulphate of this substance in cases of chorea at the London Hospital. As much as 406 grains of this salt (which is not, like free aniline, poisonous) were given, in one case, in a few days. After a few doses the face became of a leaden-blue colour; the lips and gums looked as if the patient had been eating black currants, and the nails also ac- quired a purple hue. This tint was, however, so transitory, that it was observed to fade a little in the interval between each dose of the sulphate of aniline. Dr. Letheby's colour-test for aniline has been already given in the * Tear-book' for 1862. It is, however, not mentioned there that the aniline is obtained from the animal tissues which contain it by distilla- tion. Strychnia gives nearly the same colour reactions ; but it is not volatile, and therefore will not distil over like aniline. It is also necessary to use strong sulphuric acid to produce the colour with strychnia, while aniline gives the best tints when the dilute acid is em- ployed. There is, therefore, no difficulty in distinguishing between the two alkaloids. Aniline colours.—Charvet ('Ann. d'Hyg.,' 1863, Oct., p. 381) gives an account of an epidemic which prevailed in a manufactory of fuchsine, or aniline red, at Pierre Benite (Ehone). Among the earliest symptoms was an eruption, which occupied chiefly the hands and feet, and was remarkable for the multiplicity of its forms. Herpes, pem- phigus, prurigo, and ecthyma, are described as associated together at the same spot. It disappeared very quickly as soon as the patient was removed. Slight thirst, and constipation or diarrhoea, were also observed in these cases, but the most striking phenomena were those which affected the nervous system. The following were especially noticed:— Weakness of the limbs, amounting, in many instances, to incomplete paralysis, and affecting the hands and feet before the arms or the legs ; anesthesia or hyperassthesia, and various perversions of sense ; formica- tion ; sensations of constriction round the limbs, or burning heat in them, or even acute pains. There were great varieties in these symj)- toms in different cases. The affection rarely lasted more than a month, and terminated in every case in recovery. Its cause was not surely ascertained, but it is ascribed to the use of arsenic acid in producmg the colour from the aniline. Glycerine.—M. Palm ('BuU. de Th^r.,' Ixv, 1863, p. 2;o) gives the following process for the detection of the presence of cane-sugar in glycerine. Two drops of sulphuric acid are added to the liquid, aud it is then evaporated in a water bath. If it becomes black, it may be assumed that cane-sugar is present. Grape-sugar may be discovered by boiling the suspected glycerine with a third part of potass ley, when a brown colour appears if this impurity be contained m it. Chloroformic anodyne.—Br. Harley ('Lancet,' ii, p. 7) relates a case ot poisoning by six drachms of this substance, occurring m a girl »t. 12.