259 EXCAVATION OF THE OPTIC DISC. the ciliary iusertiou, and accordingly to make the internal wound quite at the periphery. He also recommends, as the rule, that the inner portion of the iris should be excised, and not the upper, a rule espe- cially to be observed when the assistant is inefficient or the operator little experienced, and generally in all difficult cases. (3) He has seen a peculiar "cystoid" form of cicatrization of the wound made in the operation, to a slight degree in one fifth, to a high typical development in about one fifteenth, of all the eyes thus treated for glaucoma. This form of healing has, in addition to some problem- atical advantages, positive disadvantages, and must therefore be opposed by proper treatment. As such may be enumerated, compression by a bandage as a prophylactic, and excision. The author now admits "amaurosis with excavation of the optic nerve" into the category of chronic glaucoma. Every excavation of the optic papilla which presents the characters of an excavation from pressure, would accordingly be named glaucomatous. Yet it must be remembered that the excavation is only a symptom, and the essence of the disease is the increased intraocular tension, ivith reaction on the functions of the optic nerve or retina. He describes the characters of the excavation from pressure at length. He asks, "Has it fixed characters, and is it easy under aU circumstances to distinguish an excavation from pressure from other depressions of the optic nerve caused by atrophy or by yet unknown causes. I consider this question of such practical importance that, even at the risk of repeating well-known facts, I shall once more enter upon its consideration. The following are the characteristics of the typically developed excavation from pres- sure : " (i) In contradistinction to the physiological (central) depression, it reaches to the margin of the papilla. " (2) It has a steep edge, even when not very deep. This furnishes an explanation for most of its ophthalmoscopical appearances ; first, the bendings and interruptions of the vessels; then the peculiar displace- ment of the fundus of an excavation, owing to prismatic action, when a convex glass is moved hither and thither towards the margin; for the whole fundus being relatively at a distance from the surface of the retina, owing to its steep descent, but its separate portions approxi- mately in the same plane, the mutual position of the separate objects on the fundus is changed but little, v?hilst the excavation, as a whole (of course in proportion to its depth), is much displaced towards the margin. These signs are of special importance in regard to excavations from atrophy. The latter, even when very deep (a circumstance of rare occurrence), have a gentle slope, and are accordingly without the abrupt interruptions and bendings of the vessels; the latter are only slightly deviated. Eor the same reason, the fundus of the excavation is not displaced as a whole and relatively strongly towards the margin, but when the convex glass is moved from side to side, the difierent portions of the excavation, in proportion to the gradiially augmeutino- distance from the retina, approach or recede from one another. ^ "(3) A distinct enlargement takes place in the retinal veins, after they have emerged from the excavation, which is clearly caused by the