KKPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 120 something is gniiied by each bath, and the electric contractility of the mus- cles is increased. The baths are most desirable when a notable amount of atrophy exists. Compression or division of the external cutaneous nerve sometimes produces permanent paralysis of the muscles supplied by it; sometimes only removes the contraction for a time. Gentle traction and elongation of the contracted muscles by suitable apparatus is useful, and so also is exercise of the antagonists. In cases of paralysis of tlie anta- gonists, strychnine, if borne Avell for twenty days, is very likely to be speedily successful. Mineral mud applied to the affected limb is bene- ficial in cases of organic attenuation from gout or other causes. Fara- dization of the antagonist muscles and of the skin is recommended; the latter has a magical effect in recent cases. In acute cases of rheumatic character general and local bleeding, followed by quinine and narcotics, do good service. Bkenner.—Petersb. Med. Zeitschr., iv, p. 197, 1863. Advises the use of the constant galvanic current to very atrophied muscles before the induced, which otherwise may prove injurious by stimulating the weak muscular fibres beyond their powers. He thinks that the constant current improves the nutrition of remaining muscular fibres, and causes the formation of new ones. Malmsten.—On Progressive Muscular Atrophy. Hygiea, vol. xxiii, p. 5^5. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 31. Malmsten has observed three cases, one of which ended fatally. At the autopsy no change was found in the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. Malmsten regards the disease as a primary muscular affection— (1) Because, of the muscles which derive their nerves from the same trunk, one is often seriously involved, while the others appear quite healthy. (2) Because in palsies depending on affections of the nerves the muscle, though its function is lost, remains for sonic time unchanged in structure, which is not the case in progressive muscular atrophy. Malmsten is dis- posed to adopt Oppolzer's view, that the disca?e consists essentially in a chronic parenchymatous inflammation of the muscles, the exudixtion taking place into the fibres leading to their degeneration and decay. Taylok, F.'—Med. Times and Gaz., July Tith. Kecords a case of paralysie musculaire atrophique successfully treated, after other means had failed, by Pot. lod. in doses of gr. v ter die. The patient was a strong, healthy looking man, wlio had scarcely known a day's illness. In seven days the paralysis, which commenced in the feet, had extended upwards, and involved all the limbs, and even to some extent the facial muscles, which were agitated with a kind of fibrillary quivering or tremor. This tremor was not apparent in the muscles of the limbs. Great muscular atrophy ensued in both the upper and lower extremities; the power of articulation, deglutition, and respiration, was perfect, sensation being developed to its highest degree. The sphincters remained quite efiicient. After the disease had continued seven weeks the iodide was commenced, and in about two months he had completely recovered.