315 LITHOTOMY IN THE FEMALE. bladder, is to be considered the exception to, and not the rule of, practice. Vse of chloroform.—^Ir. H. CoUis notes ('Dubl. Quart. Journ,, May, 1862) that " if chloroform is used, the old plan of fastening the hands to the feet must be abandoned, because the chest is thereby dangerously compressed and respiration impeded." Lithotomy in the Female, by J. E. Lane (' Lane.,' 1863, i, 34, 57).— " My object in the present communication is, in the first instance, to call attention to what I believe to be, in appropriate cases, a greatly improved plan of operation ; and in addition to this to inquire how far ■we can determine—(i) "Whether some of the various operations pro- posed may not now with advantage be discarded altogether; (2) "Which of them are worthy of being retained; and (3) Whether amongst these latter, we can find good grounds for allotting to each its own appropriate class of cases." Mr. Lane was led to consider the subject of lithotomy in the female in consequence of a case which has been already reported (' Lane.,' 1862, ii, 370). The patient, whose age was thirty-eight, had suffered from stone for many years; an attempt, which he made to crush it, so greatly aggravated her symptoms, that its immediate i-emoval became a matter of imperative necessity. " The operation was performed in the following manner:—The patient being placed in the lithotomy position, Bozeman's speculum was introduced into the vagina, and held so as to expose its anterior wall, and a straight grooved staff was passed into the bladder by the urethra. An incision was then made into the groove of the staff", commencing just behind the neck of the bladder, and extending backward in the median line for about an inch and tliree quarters—to within a short distance, in fact, of the attach- ment of the vagina to the cervix uteri. Through this incision the stone, which was nearly two inches in length, was readily extracted. The edges of the wound were then brouglit into apposition by twelve silver-wire sutures. Immediate relief of all the painful symptoms followed the operation; tlie greater pai't of the incision united by first intention, but, unfortunately, a small portion of its edges at the anterior part sloughed, and when the slough separated, the urine made its way into the vagina. This opening, however, healed by granulation, the granulating surfaces being held together by the inser- tion of two wire sutures. It remained closed for a fortnight, the patient being able to retain half a pint of urine without difficulty ; but at the end of this time, the uniting medium, which was at one point very thin, gave way, and an opening was formed just large enough to admit a probe. Failing to close this by repeated applications of caustic, I pared its edges, and again applied sutures, this time with complete success, and the patient shortly afterwards left the hospital quite well, having perfect control over her urine, and all inflammation and irrita- bility of the bladder having subsided, the vesico-vaginal septum remaining as thick and strong along the line of the incision as else- whpre." Vesico-vaginal lithotomy has been practised by many operators since the time of Kousset, but the danger of its leaving a fistulous aperture