hkport on suroehy. ^64 by its limits being abrupt, so that portions of the visual field, in whicli the acuteuess oi' vision is relatively normal, impinge directly on por- tions entirely defective. The condition is similar to that in an.-rsthesia from section of the fifth nerve, where the loss of sensibility ends abruptly in the middle line of the face. It may be readily understood that the same must be the result when one optic tract behind the commissure is rendered incapable of performing its functions, owing to some cause at the base of the cranium. If the optic nerve is com- pressed in front of the commissure, it will, of course, only be prevented from conducting the impressions of the eye of the same side. Should some cause at the base of the skull, whether behind or in front of the commissure, press out from the middle line against the optic nerves, as not unfrequently happens, then the fasciculi cruciati will especially sufler, the inner half of each retina will be paralysed, and the outer half of the visual field will be aff"ectcd; this is the so-called lateral hemiopia. Touwill readily iinderstand that it does not end so abruptly as the same-sided form, for the effect of the pressure is not limited to some particular bundles of fibres; the inner bundles are tlie parts first and chiefly affected, the action gradually diminishing from within out- wards towards the fasciculi laterales. And thus, in respect to the visual field, it will never happen that a part in which the vision is relatively normal will border upon a perfect defect; there will be a gradual transition from the one to the other. If we now examine our patient in this respect, we find that there is neither the one nor the other kind of hemiopia, but that an irregular portion to the lower and inner side is wanting in each visual field ; when strongly illuminated, she sees in the directions just named the motions of a hand as far as the normal limits, the exceutrical vision being only indistinct; but when the illumi- nation is less, this portion of the visual field is totally wanting. Such a contraction of the visual field may arise from cerebral causes when thei'e are multiple or dift'use centres of disease, or from basal causes, such as exudations, impeding the action of the fasciculi laterales of both sides ; it is, however, rare for it to arise from such causes—its more frequent origin is disease of the optic nerve or retina. "We have, therefore, a special reason for asking wdiether any peripheral lesion of the optic nerve complicates the disease—I say special reason, because, owing to the frequency with whicli neuro-retinitis forms a complication of intracranial processes, it is generally necessary to examine this pos- sibility in the diagnosis. Examination with the ophtlialmoscope shows, in fact, great changes in the optic nerve and retina; especially on the right side is the pa]nlla of a deep-gray colour, opaque, and slightly swollen; its choroidal limit invisible, owing to the cloudiness of the super- jacent retina ; the retina over a space several lines in diameter is dif- fusely clouded ; when much magnified, this cloudiness presents here and there an appearance of delicate stripes; nowhere are there apoplexies or groups of opaque spots, or the yellowish-Avhite patches, characteristic of fatty degeneration ; the veins are much enlarged and serpentine, at places rendered indistinct by the turbid retina, and then again appear- ing more distinctly. On the left side these changes are undoubtedly present, though not to the same degree. The retinal lesion perfectly