238 UEPOllT OX SUUGEUY. " After performing several amputations of the tliigli by Mr. Teale's method, and obtaining excellent stumps, it seemed to Mr. Speuce that its chief advantage consisted in the end of the bone being com])letcly covered by the sound tissue of tiio anterior flap, whilst the cicatrix was placed high iip ou the posterior part of the stump ; but that the square forni aud the folding of the long Hap were disadvantages as leading to trouble in adjusting the flap, and in the after-dressing, should uniou by the first intention fail, whilst the folding the flap on itself, aud ho retaining it by stitches, was likely to endanger its vitality to some extent. It seemed, therefore, to Mr. Spence that ho might obtain the advantages without the disadvantages of Mr. Teale's method, by revert- ing to a modification of O'Halloran's operation, aud simply cutting a large, slightly-rounded flap from the anterior aspect of the thigh, dividing the soft parts posteriorly by a circular sweep of the knife, so that, when the bone was sawn through, the anterior flap would fall upon and adjust itself to the section of the limb. This plan had accordingly been put in practice, and found to answer so fully, as regarded the form of stump and the simplicity of the dressing and after treatment, that Mr. Spence now constantly adopted it as a general method in amputation of the lower part of the thigh. For the proper perform- ance of this operation some particulars required to be attended to as regarded the size, form, and textures to be preserved in the anterior flap, and the section of the bone. In order that the anterior flap might fall loosely over, and cover the posterior segment of the stump, its breadth, in its whole extent, must be fully equal to one half the circum- ference of the limb, and it must be gently rounded at its extremity, so as to adjust itself readily to the curve of the cut margins of the posterior half of the stump. In Mr. Spence's own operations, he judged of the proportions by the eye ; but a flap of four inches would be found sufli- cient in a limb twelve inches in circumference, provided due attention were paid to preparing the bone for section, by elevating the thigh somewhat towards the pelvis, retracting the soft parts, and clearing the bone fully two inches higher up than the base of the flap. The bone was thus projected to the utmost, and if sa-wn close to the soft parts, when the limb was lowered, it was deeply buried in the anterior flap, which hung loosely over it. As to the textures composing tiie flap, Mr. Spence generally operated as low down as possible, so that the lower part of the flap was chiefly composed of skin ; but he cut obliquely through the anterior muscles to the bone, so as to have a thicker cushion directly corresponding to the sawn end of the bone. The great vessels must be left in the posterior part of the stump, and not included in the flap." H. Schmidt, statistics of all amputations and excisions performed at the Surgical Clinic of Tiibingen, from 1843 to 186.3 (Stuttg., Ebner and Seubert). M. Legouest, statistics of amputations (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 222). M. Debout, on the use of coverings for stumps (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 374). W. Busch, artificial leg for cases in which am- putation of the thigh has been performed ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iv, 32). J. F. Heyfelder, case of amputation at the shoulder-joint '(' Deutsche Klinik,' 1862. p. 4; 3). J. Spence, case of amputation at the