ONANISM, SOi fingers or wrist caused him great pain. Slight pressure anywhere on the spine produced great pain, according to his own statement. Sep- tember 19th.—Left hand firmly closed; both thighs drawn up; knees bent, and cannot be extended; toes of left foot inverted, and whole limb very sensitive. The mouth is closed for a few minutes two or three times a day. This went on till October 3rd, when a i)hysician from London saw him. This gentleman, in consultation, thought that he recognised an important pathological state of the bra,in or spinal marrow, and pointed out with great precision the pathological anatomy which was sure to be found at the expected post-mortem examination. This prospect made the friends of the patient very anxious indeed. Ou October 7th he was no better ; head symptoms Avere now added, and for a mini;te [or two he became unconscious, i ith.—No better; valerianate of zinc, with compound rhubarb pills, quinine, &c., were continued. 19th.—Consulted with the physician again; fits and trismus worse. He was ordered to have bichloride of mercury, iodide of potas- sium and bark.' " 30th.—As the patient was getting worse, I was requested to see him. I found him sitting in his chair, the left forearm flexed, with the left thumb turned inwards towards the palm of the hand, and the fingers flexed over it, his face flushing very readily. The skin was cool, and there was no thirst. The pulse was not quick, but the heart was very excitable ; the tongue clean ; the pupils dilated ; the skin exquisitely sensitive to the touch when attention was directed to that point, but not when the mind was diverted from it. The contraction of the limb and hand was constant, but could be overcome by persevering efforts on my part, giving way very suddenly. The spine was tender the whole of the way down. I requested that he might be denuded. The • penis was very sensitive, and the skin, prolonged; the genital organs Avere cold, but highly sensitive; the hands were cold and damp. He had insisted on sleeping by himself, and in a room to himself. The patient watched especially my examination of the genitals, and when I at that moment looked at him seriously, averted his face, as if ashamed. I felt convinced that the whole of the symptoms were the result of onanism. On October 30th I insisted upon his not sleeping alone, so that he might not be able to continue his habit unobserved, and ordered five grains of mercurial ointment to be rubbed once a day into the axilla, so as to divert his mind from the thing I had in view, and I desired that a blistering fluid might be applied to the penis every night. In about three or four days the hands relaxed and opened, the legs remaining contracted ; this contraction continued during sleep. The trismus persisted, but with longer periods of muscular relaxation. The local genital irritation was kept up, small doses of morphia were given at night, and the ointment used till the 20th of JSTovember. The mouth was a little sore, having been made so by the mercury. The ointment was then omitted, but the application to the penis was maintained. " Nov. 23rd.—This is the surgeon's report:—' The fits,' &c., continued till to-day, and to-day the trismus lasted longer than at any former time. Ho suddenly opened his mouth, regained the use of his \e"s and no relapse occurred. Subsequently a mixture of strychnia was' c^iven