LEECHES. 489 the tail. A quantity of blood collects at once in the posterior ex- tremity of the animal. The blood in the fore part of the leech is then pressed out by the hand which is free, and that which had accumulated behind the part pressed on is afterwards gently pushed forwards and removed. The animal should be immediately placed in ])ure water. It has been proposed to add an alkali, with the object of diminishing the injurious effects of the vinegar, a fresh quantity of which must be used for the cleansing of each leech. Soft water appears to suit leeches better than hard. The tendency to decomposition from the organic matter contained in it may be obviated (as at Preistadt) by placing in it pieces of carbon. It is of great importance to avoid ex- posing leeches to considerable variations of temperature, when the water in which they are kept is changed. According to Boucher, the best thing to do with leeches, after they have been used, would be to ])lace them in a non-metallic vessel, and to return them to the marsh. As this is out of the question, a vivarium is used. The animal should be kept in this for a week or ten days, as, at the end of that period, it most readily bites for a second time. The best apparatus for preserving leeches appears to consist of an earthen vessel covered with a lid made of zinc. This is itself placed in a pail of water, which is imbedded in the ground. Besides the water in the vessel in which the leeches are placed, a quantity of clayey earth is arranged round the bottom of it, and kept in its position by a shelving piece of wood, perforated by aper- tures, so that the leeches can readily pass from one element to the other. The water must be frequently changed. From this apparatus leeches may be applied four times in succession. The mortality among leeches after their employment is, according to Eoucher, as follows:—" Virgin leeches," that is to say, those which have never before been used, all survive under proper care. Of those applied for the second time, 9 per cent, die; of those used for the third time, 18 per cent.; of those used for the fourth time, 37 per cent. After this the mortality reaches 7 a per cent.; aud he therefore recommends that leeches be returned to the marsh when they have been used four times. In their natural habitat they breed, and are,perhaps,brought back after a time as "virgin leeches." The quantity of blood absorbed by " virgin leeches," of the mean weight of 23 grains, was, on an average, 74—77 grains. That absorbed by leeches used for the second time was 50 grains ; 43 grains of blood were extracted by leeches the third time they were applied to the skin, and 30 grains the fourth time. These numbers, however, require modi- fication, as they do not include the amount of blood which escapes from the wound after the leech has fallen off. This quantity is, of course, the same, whatever kind of leech be used. Eoucher gives the numbers 100, 86, 82, 75, as representing the.relative value of leeches used for the first, second, third, and fourth times. In ' Schmidt's .Tahrblicher' (1863, No. 8) is given a report of the in- creasing success of the methods adopted in the Prussian military hos- pitals for the restoration of leeches. The proportion of these animals which were used a second time was, in i860, 76 per cent.; in i86r it was 837 per cent. The saving in expense amounted to about £i8o in the first year, and £230 in the second year. The greatest success