373 H.KMORRHAGE—TRANSFUSION. the pulse at once became full and strong. She rapidly improved, and a week after the operation seemed quite well. Dr. Lumley Earle believes that distension of the bladder is not an un- freqiient cause of primary post-partum hajraorrhage, and urges that the catheter should be used 'in all cases where great and unusual suflering exists, Avith disproportionate severity of the pain to the progress of labour. (' Trans, of Obst. Soc. of London,' vol. v, p. 294) Dr. Grraily Hewitt, " On the Operation of Transfusion m Obstetric Practice" (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' ii, 1863, p. 232). Taking the reports of the Eegistrar-General for several years, the author finds that the number of deaths in England and Wales from accidents during childbirth average nine per diem, and of these at least one is caused by bsemorrhage. In many of these cases all remedies short of transfusion will fail, and it is, therefore, the more remarkable that the operation is not more frequently practised. The author answers the objections urged against the operation, and thinks that the obstacles to its more general adoption arise from (i) a disbelief in its eflBcaey, (2) the difficulty of deciding on the indications, or (3) the difficulty in its performance. Under the first head the author cites Prof. Martin's series of cases.* Of 57 cases collected by this author, 43 were successful. In 7 of the unsuccessful cases, however, death occurred some days later from return of haemorrhage, or from phlebitis, which gives a mortality of only 7 in 50, or B>6 j)er cent, recoveries. (2) The indications for the operation are absence of power to swallow, with the symptoms of collapse, and especially if to these be added dyspnoea, jactitation, and convulsions. In the great majority of cases, where the patient is able to swallow, recovery will follow the free administration of stimulants. In two cases mentioned by the author more than thirty ounces of brandy were given in less than two hours, with a successful result in both cases. Absence of pulsation at the wrist appears to be, taken alone, one of the most positive indications for the operation; but it does not follow that because pulsation is felt the operation is not required ; and extreme feebleness, combined with greatrapidity of the pulse, is, in some cases, as strongly indicative of the necessity for the operation as its complete absence in other cases. The operation is not indicated unless the hae- morrhage and the tendency to it have ceased. The exceptions to this rule are cases like Dr. "Waller's, in which placenta praevia existed, and the patient was so much exhausted from loss of blood that the attempt to deliver her would probably have been fatal. Here transfusion was performed in order to enable the patient to bear further manipulation. But there are some cases of post-partum hsemorrhage in which this seems to defy all attempts at arrest; and here, unless the hcemorrhage be stopped, transfusion is useless. In these obstinate cases the author has found Dr. Hamilton's plan successful. The uterus is closely compressed between the two hands, one hand being in the vagina, aud the other grasping the uterus from above, and this compression maintained for some time. (3) The difficulties in the performance of the operation are carefully * ' Ueber die Transfusion tei Blutungen Neuentbundener,' Berlin, 1859.