IIEPOIIT ON I'HACTICAL jikdicxne. 88 of cells of the process increases, becomes tliinner, and is thinnest at the period which elapses between the cessation of the cellular formation and the recommencement of their ossification. It is sometimes partially wanting, the wall of tlie sinus being in contact with the lining of the cells of the mastoid process. In older persons the wall again becomes thickened, sometimes to the extent of a line or more. This explains why it is that internal otitis is most liable to induce fatal inflammation of the brain between tlie ages of eigliteen and thirty, the age of forty-six being the oldest at which it has been known to do so. So, too, notwithstanding the frequency of otorrhoca in children, sncli fatal issue is proportionally very rare, inasmuch as the wall of separation, though spongy, is also thick in proportion. Arlt remarked that the veins must not be regarded as the sole source of propagation of the inflammation, as this may take place also by means of the thin bony wall, as might be expected from the analogous conditions under which orbital abscess is formed. Lancereaux.—On Meningeal Haemorrhage in relation to Pachymenin- gitis. Arch. Gener., Nov., Dec, 1862 ; Jan., 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. 118, p. 16B. Lancereaux is persuadad that the pseudo-membrane is first formed, and that the haemorrhage is secondary (v. 'Year-book,' i86i,pp, 161, 168; and 1863, p. 77), The seat of the pseudo-membranes is almost always the convexity of the brain, on one or both sides, usu<ally in the vicinity of the division of the middle meningeal artery; here also the layer is thickish, and here also the sanguineous effusions are usually formed. The pia mater, as well as the dura, commonly presents marks of hypersemia or of inflammation, and even of suppuration. The symptoms vary according to the age and the development of the pseudo-membranes, the gradual or sudden effusion of bloody or serous fluid. If the membrane exists alone, its presence is only indicated by pain, usually limited to the seat it occu- pies, and, perhaps, by giddiness. When haemorrhage has taken place there are then signs of pressure on the brain, as dulness, somnolence, and paralysis, and of excitement, as manifested by contraction of the pupil and of the extremities, and sometimes convulsions. The transitory and interchanging character of the symptoms is also characteristic. The skin is usually pale, cachectic, the pulse normal, there is emaciation, and sometimes vomiting. The subsequent sudden attacks of bleeding are not essentially different from the primary. They determine apoplectic or con- vulsive attacks with secondary palsies or contractions, sometimes delirium, but for (he most part general paralysis and coma. These phenomena occur suddenly after a varying duration of the general symptoms, espe- cially of pain in the head, and usually prove speedily fatal. The course is generally chronic; in rare cases it may end in recovery, the symptoms at any rate ceasing, although the morbid formation remains. The chief causes are injuries to the skull, the abuse of alcohol, rheumatism, and erysipelas of the scalp, Babington, T. H., M.D, ; CuTHBERT, A., '^l.Tt—Paralysis caused by working under Co7npressed Air in sinJcing the foundations of London- derry new Bridge. Dublin Quar. Jour, of j\Ied. Sc., Nov., 1863.