nKPOUT ON I'HYfilOLOOy. supplying tlio place of the water that is lost. The quantity of urine diuiiuishes for the most part to the amount of one tliird, owing probably to the increase of water-excretion of the lungs and skin. After the exertion is ended the persjjiration sank to its mean, or below it. In respect to urea, Speek found in one series of observations no difference between rest and exertion; in another, a manifest diminution during exertion; in a third and fourth, a very slight diminution, followed by a slight increase when the exertion was ended; essentially, the urea remained the same daring both periods. On the other hand, in three other series of observations, differing from the former by a less drinking of water and less perspiration, he found a decided increase of urea both during and after the exertion. On the whole, the urea was least when the perspiration was greatest, and Speck has noticed also during rest a diminution of urea accompanying free perspiration. Ifo proof, how- over, is given of the presence of urea in the sweat. According to all Speck's experiments, uric acid is increased during exertion, and this increase amounted, with the exception of one experi- ment when the diet was very poor in nitrogen, to more than that of any other constituent of the urine; for the most part, it was increased a third ; once it was doubled, and once trebled. The other nitrogenous elements of the urine were not examined. The chloride of sodiuni was, on the whole, increased, but this Avas demonstrable in the urine only when its quantity was not diminished, and that of the sweat increased, beyond a certain j^oint. AVith very profuse perspiration, the chloride of sodium in the urine might appear diminished. The sid- phuric and phosphoric acids of the urine were always increased, and for a considerable period. The exhalation of carbonic acid from the lungs was greatly increased. Speck lays stress upon the diminished waste after exertion, -which is doubtless connected with the indisposition to repeat it; and which, if a considerable period be taken together of alternate rest and exertion, would seem to indicate no increase for exertion over rest. The waste is in the one case unequally, in the other equally, distributed. Con- sidering the scanty increase of urea during exei'tion, while yet the loss of weight cannot be wholly referred to excretion of CO2 and water, Speck thinks that the products of the decomposition of albumen leave tlie body in large quantity in other forms than that of urea. Salisbury's experiments serve to carry further the investigations of Dr. riint on cholesterine as an excretion of the liver. (See * Tear-book,' 1862, p. 8.) He gives the following as his conclusions:—(i) Choles- terine occurs largely in the ova of the human subject and of animals. (2) In the seminalfluid of the human subject, seroline (the stercorine of Flint) and cholesterine are largely present, the former more so than the latter. (3) Cholesterine occurs very largely as a secretion in the saliva; no seroline is found. (4) Neither seroline nor cholesterine occurs in healthy urine. (■;) Cholesterine occurs quite largely, and seroline in small quantity, in jaundice-urine. (These bodies are pro- bably always secreted by the kidneys whenever the liver, through organic or functional derangements, ia unable to secrete them from the blood.)