296 llliPOllT ON SURGERY. large intestine; it is especially to be sought for in the middle and lower parts of the left side of the abdomen, by palpation, by examination with the finger or a bougie introduced per anum, and by percussion. Tlie diagnosis is facilitated in the period of elimination by tlie symptoms of enteritis, by the bloody discharge, and by tlie slouglis. Treatment.—Reduction may be attempted by the fingers, by a bougie, by insufflation of air, or the injection of water, before sloughing lias commenced. Purgatives and fluid mercury are decidedly injurious. Antiphlogistics and narcotics are often of great service. During the second stage, when the slough is forming, little can be done but to watch the case. The author considers it justifiable to puncture the in- testine with a trocar, or even to perform enterotomy, for the purpose of allowing an escape for gas and fluids. The greatest care must be taken during the third period, when the slough is being eliminated, not to break up the adhesions. II. Twists of the intestine, citlier on its own axis or round another piece of hoicel.—The author has collected 21 cases, in 8 of which the small, and in 12 the large intestine was the part affected; in 10 cases it was on the right, in 7 on the left side, and in 3 near the middle ; peri- tonitis occurred in almost every case. They must be treated in the same manner as intussusceptions. III. Strictures.—Twenty-eight cases of cancer, inno case affecting the small bowel. 2. Twelve cases from hypertrophy of the submucous, mus- cular, and cellular tissues, of which almost all were in the rectum or sigmoid flexui'e. ,3. Trom cicatrices or inflammation there were 16 cases, mostly seated in the small intestine ; death ensued ten times from peritonitis, six times from perforation. 4. From valves; rarely observed in adults. Of 8 cases of enterotomy in the inguinal region only i recovered ; of 7 in the lumbar region all recovered; one case of gastrotomy was also successful. , IV. Foli/pi.—Fourteen cases, generally complicated with intus- susception. V. Agents not structurally connected with tlie intestine. I. FcBces.—Only 15 cases, in which no other cause could be found. Tlie cfccum, sigmoid flexure, and the rectum, were the parts generally affected. These cases lasted for an extremely long period—3 months, no, 114 days. 1. Foreifjn bodies.—Fourteen cases; the seat of the obstruction was in most cases the termination of the small intestine. 3. Worms.—Nine cases. 4. Biliari/ calculi.—Eighteen cases ; and 5. Intestinal calculi.—Ten cases, generally in the large bowel. Agents external to the intestine. The author notes 16 cases of strangulation by the vermiform appen- dix, 21 cases by diverticula of the small intestine, 7 cases by the mesentery acting as a band, 7 cases by the omentum twisted like a cord. There Avere 65 cases of strangulation by bauds or adhesions; the band