OPERATIONS IN MIDAVIFERY. 375 was retained four days, and a rupture of the posterior wall of the uterus, "several inches long," occurred, through which a convolu- tion of intestine had passed. During the fruitless attempts to detach the placenta the intestines protruded en masse. Vain attempts having heen made to replace them, they were cut oflFwith a pair of scissors! The patient died thirty-eight hours after. The thickness of the uterine wall, near the seat of rupture, was found, after death, diminished from half an inch to two lines. In another case, a short time after the natural birth of a child, a midwife introduced her hand into the vagina, in order to remove the placenta, tore off the funis, and, after the woman had uttered a loud scream, brought away a convolution of intestines, of which part of the large intestine was torn off. Three days after, the jjatient died. After death a large rent of the uterus was found at its junction with the vagina. The muscular tissue w^as firm and normal in structure.—Dr. Olshausen publishes a paper on ruptures of the uterus, and especiaUy on that form of rupture which results from prolonged kneading and compression ('Mon. f. Geb.,' October, 1862). LACERATION OP THE PEEINiETTM. Mr. Biyant records three cases, with successful operation in each ('Lancet,' ii, 1863, p. 702). Dr. C. Ricketts recommends the adoption of the following plan in forceps cases. When the forceps have been applied, and the head of the child has been brought down so low on the perinasum that the forefinger, introduced into the rectum, can reach, in occipito- anterior presentations, beyond the frontal eminence, the instrument should be withdrawn, or all traction discontinued, and the finger, still retained in the rectum, should be used like the vectis, pressure being made with it on the forehead, upper jaw, and chin, as these parts can be felt. The head is thus made to rotate in the axis of the outlet, and being directed forwards under the pubes, its pressure on the perinseura is greatly relieved. (' Med. Times and G-az.,' i, 1863, p. 415.) OPERATIONS IN MIDWIFERY. ON THE INDUCTION 01? PREMATURE LABOUR. Dr. Storer, of Boston, in a pamphlet * On Artificial Dilatation of the Os and Cervix Uteri by T?luid Pressure from above; a reply to Drs. Keiller of Edinburgh and Arnott and Barnes of London,' gives are^sume of the history of all the methods employed for dilating the os uteri. Putting aside the measures of Hiiter and Braun for inducing premature labour by dilatation of the vagina, it is to Arnott and Qariel that belongs the credit of first suggesting the possibility of dilating the cervix by fluid pressure from heloio; while in dilating the uterus by fluid pressure from above, although the author's instrument was already prepared for the purpose, Dr. Keiller really anticipated him by a few days in actual practice. 4-S regards priority of publicjv-