385 OPERATIONS IN MIDWIFEllY. M. Gubler, " On Uterine litemorrbages, aud their relations to Men- struation" ('Gaz. des Hop.,' Sept. 1863), states that the sanguineous discharge from the uterus which not uncommonly occurs at the com- mencement of, and during the progress of acute diseases, is merely analogous to the epistaxis which occurs in the early stage of fevers. M. Gubler cites the following case, to show that the sanguineous dis- charge is merely an accessory circumstance of menstruation. A woman of general good health, set. 23, died in the Beaujon Hospital, from acute meningitis. She had never had any menstrual discharge, but after death the ovaries were found well developed, and contained corpora lutea. There were eleven in the left ovary and six in the right. In the left ovary there was a recent corpus luteum, and the vesicle still con- tained a small clot of blood. On the other hand, the discharge may take place independently of ovulation, or continue beyond it; for dis- charges regarded as menstrual occur in circumstances where ovulation is impossible, as in girls not arrived at puberty. M. Gubler relates a case which seems to show that in some circumstances the same cause may bring about ovulation, aud the discharge of blood, Avithout one of these being necessarily subordinate to the other. In a young woman attacked with cerebro-meuiugitis, the menstrual discharge began with the first symptoms of the disease, and continued till her death, on the tenth day. The autopsy showed perfect cicatri- zation of the follicle, and the formation of a corpus luteum, correspond- ing with the presence of recent clots in the uterine cavity. Here was well shown the separation bet\veen the two orders of menstrual pheno- mena ; the evolution of the Graafian vesicle, and its rupture, with the discharge of a mature ovum; and, on the other hand, the congestion of the utero-ovarian vascular plexuses and of the uterine cavity, with the discharge constituting the menstrual flux. NON-PTIEEPEltAL PELVIC INFLAMMATION. Under the head of " Pelvic Inflammation and Abscess in the Non- Puerperal State," Dr. McClintock ('Clinical Memoirs,' pp. 36—jja) groups together an important series of cases, including many which difier materially in then* character, from the cellulitis of the puerperal state. Two forms of the disease may be recognised: a primary, or idiopathic—the more rare in occurrence, and the more apt to have a distinct, if not an acute, mode of invasion ; and a secondary, or symp- tomatic, generally consecutive, upon some uterine or ovarian disease. Twelve cases are related. Of these, 6 were primary and 6 were secondary. Of the former, the attack was induced by an ill-adjusted or over-large pessary, in 2 cases, " and this is not an uncommon cause;" while in a third, excessive coition seems to have been the exciting cause. In 3 of these cases the inflammation had its seat in the cellular tissue around the cervix uteri, and were strictly examples of the " peri- uterine phlegmon " of Becquerel. Of the latter class the pelvic inflam- mation was secondary to fibrous tumour of the uterus in 3 cases, to uterine polypus in 2 cases, and to peritonitis in i case. ' Of the primary cases, 5 recovered aud i died. Of the secondary 25