UKPOllT ON" TOXtCOLOOY AM) MATEUI.V WEUICA. 4.11 BISMUTH. In order to detect the presence of arsenic in the nitrate of bismuth, Dr. Herapath ('Phar. Jour.,' 1863, p. 304) recommends the reduction of the salt by hydrogen. The vessel used for generating the gas is connected ^vith a tube of suitable diameter, which is drawn out at cer- tain points, so as to narrow its calibre. It is also carefully counter- poised, and heated at different parts by spirit lamps. When the purity of the hydrogen evolved has been ascertained, about twenty grains of the nitrate of bismuth are poured into the gas bottle. It is usually necessary to add a little more hydrochloric acid, after which the evolution of hydrogen goes on rapidly. In this way three or four films of metallic arsenic may often be obtained from this quantity of impure nitrate of bismuth. Dr. Herapath finds that arsenic is con- tained in almost all specimens of the commercial salt, and its proportion may amount to i part in 433. The question appeal's to have arisen in a recent case of arsenical poisoning in "Wiltshire, whether the arsenic could have been derived from this source. At least an ounce of impure bismuth must, however, have been taken on this supposition, to account for the arsenic found in the viscera of tlie poisoned person; and all this bismuth must have been evacuated, for scarcely one twentieth of a grain of it was foimd. There is some reason to believe that the salts of bismuth also often contain thallium. The best method of purifying the insoluble preparations of bismuth from arsenic is to boil them with caustic potash or soda. In this way the arsenious acid is dissolved out; and after repeating the process and washing with water, the residue is free from this impurity. It now consists, however, chiefly of oxide of bismuth, and it is necessary to dissolve it in nitric acid, and to reprecipitate it by the addition of water or of carbonate of soda, according as the' nitrate or carbonate is desired. The liquor bismuthi of Mr. Schacht, of Clifton, is a transparent solu- tion, a dj-achm of which, containing a grain of the oxide of bismuth, is said to be as effectual in gastric diseases as fifteen grains of the insoluble nitrate (' Lancet,' 1863, vol. ii, p. 49). COPrEE. Two cases of colic, caused apparently by poisoning ^vith copper, and occurring in boys who worked with the metal, are recorded by the ' Bull, de Ther. (vol. Ixv, p. 80). The pain was attended with slight constipation. It was much less severe than that of lead colic. The black line on the gums was distinct in each case, and in one the gums were also swollen and ulcerated at their edges. Both patients recovered in a few days. Milk was given to them, and this was the only treatment employed. M, Llovet ('Uu. Med.,' 1863, No. 14, p. 219) prepares cylinders of sulphate of copper for use as a caustic, by mixing two parts of the powdered salt with one part of alum, fusing them gently over a spirit