RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 153 without giving rise to cough or pain, may cause abiding hoarseness, which interferes materially with singing. In chronic catarrhs the colour of the cords varies considerably; they become thickened and cord-like and deve- lop granulations and (warty) growths, very similar to those which are formed in syphilis. Catarrh, symptomatic of syphilis or tubercle, may leave after its subsidence cicatricial degeneration of the mucous mem- brane and the submucous tissue. In the treatment of aphonia depending on chronic laryngitis, with swelling of the vocal cords, as well as of that which results 'from mere nervous depression, Mascarel recommends the use of the thermal springs of MontDore. These waters are stated to exert n special modifying or substitutive action on the mucous membrane of the throat and air-passages, including the bronchi. They are effectual even when the ventricles of the larynx are dilated, and its intrinsic mus- cles are paralysed. Gerhardt ('Wurzb. Med. Ztschr.,'iii, i, p. lo, 1862) directs attention to a cause of hoarseness, which hitherto has been almost overlooked. This is catarrhal swelling of the inter-arytenoid fold of mucous membrane, which prevents the juxtaposition of the arytenoid cartilages requisite when the glottis is closed for the formation of sound. This swelling is formed mostly in acute, sometimes also in chronic catarrhs. It is evident even during the quiescent condition ; hut during phonation it applies itself to the inner surface of both vocal cartilages, so that the glottis, which in the rest of its extent is closed, so as to appear like a line, presents posteriorly a triangular open fissure. Other causes, such as condylomata, ulcers, cicatrices, &c., may in the same way prevent the due apposition of the vocal cords, and allow the greater part of the air to escape without producing sound. Gerhardt believes that many apho- nias of short duration which are usually ascribed to paralysis of the vocal cords arise in this way. He finds caustic applications most successful when violent muscular and secretory reaction ensue. Tiirck says that in phthisical patients, besides actual tubercular ulcers,, simple catarrhal and follicular occur, the latter especially on the posterior surface of the epi- glottis, where follicles abound, and on the anterior surface of the upper division of the posterior wall of the larynx. These laryngeal ulcers are situated mostly at the lower portion of the posterior surface of the epi- glottis ; they seldom perforate it except at the borders, which then appear as if eaten away. As a rule, the contour of the organ is preserved, and in this respect tuberculous ulcers differ remarkably from the syphilitic, leprous, and cancerous. These ulcers of the posterior surface of the epi- glottis give rise to but few subjective symptoms. Ulcers of the vocal cords are less characteristic; they consist either in excoriations, when the cords, in a great part of their extent, present a grayish-yellow colour, are deficient in their normal brilliancy, and show a superficial depression at the diseased part; or they are larger and more extensive, and show irre- gular and even undermined borders. Even when the ulcers are large the voice is only hoarse, not lost. Sometimes the superior vocal cords ulce- rate in circumscribed spots, without the lower being involved ; sometimes the morbid action extends by continuity of tissue through the ventricle. Ulcers are very frequent on the mucous membrane covering the transverse arytenoid muscle, and are often characteristic of latent pulmonary tuber- culosis. They are best seen when the patient's head is held upright, and