IIYDATIDIFORJl OVUM. 3G1 DISEASES OF THE MOTHER IMPEDING DELIVERY. OK THE HTDATIDIFOBM OVTJM. The researches of Cruveilhier, Mettenheimer, Gierse, Paget, and Graily Hewitt, have shown that the disease formerly known as " hydatids of the uterus " is, in fact, not a disease of the uterus at all, but simply an hydatidiform degeneration of the ovum. " The little vesicular bodies, expelled singly from the uterus, or in series like beads, really result from certain alterations in the chorion villi, and are always the result of conception." (Graily Hewitt, 'Diseases of Women,' p. 74.) There is much difference of opinion as to the mode of origin of this vesicular degeneration of chorion. Mettenheimer and Paget believe it to bo a true cystic disease, caused by an abnormal development of the elementary cells, and that it is the cause of the death of the embryo; while others, and especially Gierse and Graily Hewitt, maintain that the vesicular bodies are the result of distension of the villi by serous effusion, and that the death of the embryo has preceded this degenera- tion. The latter theory affords a better explanation of the frequent absence or decomposed state of the embryo than the former. " In very few of the recorded cases of the disease was there any vestige of an embryo. Its absence would seem to be the rule, its presence the excep- tion." (Dr. M'Clintock, 'Diseases of Women,' p. 416.) The period of pregnancy at which the embryo dies materially affects the development of the disease. "If the death of the embryo occur very early, and before the appropriation of certain of the villi to form the foetal pla- centa has commenced, the ovum may continue to grow, and may remain in the cavity of the uterus, and in such a case the whole of the cho- rionic membrane would give rise to hydatidiform villi. If, on the other hand, the death of the embryo be postponed until the formation of the fujtal placenta has commenced, the hydatidiform degeneration will be necessarily limited to that part of the chorion which is in contact with the decidua serotina." (Hewitt, op. cit.) " The early history of these cases is that of pregnancy up to a certain period, when some of the ordinary symptoms of this state disappear and are replaced by others. Persistent vomiting, unusual hardness of the uterine tumour, vrith ita rapid increase and disproportionate size to the supposed duration of pregnancy, and irregular and sudden sero-sanguineous discharges, are the most reliable indications of the disease." (M'Clintock, op. cit., p. 393.) In the diagnosis from normal pregnancy, the absence of the fcetal heart sounds and of ballottement are the only two conditions which can be relied upon, since tlie placental soufile may be heard after the death of the embryo, and the mammary symptoms may be not much altered. Dr. M'Clintock records five cases of this disease in his work on 'Diseases of Women,' pp. 392—410. Dr. Moorhead publishes a case ('Lancet,' vol. i, 1863, p. 205), and Dr. Graily Hewitt records two cases ('Lancet,' vol. ii, 1862, p. 369, and ii, 1863, p. 699). All these cases are very similar. In each case a partial but incom- plete separation of the ovum was caused by an accident about the sixth week of pregnancy ; this was followed by rapid and dispro-