891 DISEASES OP WOMEN. thus using traction on the tumour, it became elongated, so that the pedicle was readied and divided, and the tumour removed. Slight fever and peritonitis followed, but the patient recovered well (' Mon. f. G-eb.' March, 1863). DISEASES OF THE OVARIES.—OVAEIOTOMT. Dr. Clay, Manchester, gives the results of his experience (* Trans. Obst. Soc, Lond.,' vol. v., 58). Of 116 cases in which the peritoneal section was made, 108 were for the extirpation of diseased ovaries, 4 for cutting down upon the tumour to establish ulceration where its re- moval was known to be impracticable, i for the Caesarean section, and I for the removal of both uterus and ovaries. Of the 108 cases of ovariotomy, 74 completely recovered, and 34 died. All the four ulcerative cases recovered; the case of Cfesarean section lived to the fifteenth day, and the case of entire removal of both uterus and ovaries recovered. Of the 74 recoveries, many subsequently had children, both male and female, and in only two cases did the disease return in the opposite ovary. Of these last, one died five years after the operation, the other recovered after the removal of a tumour weigh- ing forty-eiglit pounds, married, had three children, and sixteen years after the first operation was operated on a second time, and recovered. Of the 34 deaths, 10 died from " shock," 10 from peritonitis—generally about the third day—12 from prostration on or about the sixth or ninth day, and 2 from haemorrhage. Dr. Clay attributes mucTi of his success to the temperature of tlie room being raised to about 75°. He would prefer to operate without chloroform, since of the first fourteen of liis cases, performed before chloroform was discovered, nine recovered; he still prefers tlie large incision, and attributes the distressing vomiting to the use of chloroform. Critical days are the third, sixth, ninth, and twelfth. Purgatives are injurious, and enemata with ox-gall are recommended. The patient is never allowed to empty either bladder or rectum without the catheter or enema for the first five or six days after operation. OVAKIOTOMY. " The results obtained by operators of late years have been very much more favorable than was tlie case a few years back, and it may "be said that, with a few exceptions, the most eminent physicians and surgeons in this country now regard ovariotomy as a legitimate and necessary operation." Dr. Graily Hewitt, ' Diseases of Women,' p. ^88. The following table, with the exception of Mr. Bryant's cases, in- cludes the results of operations performed, so far as the author can learn, up to September, 1863. Name of operator. ^ '^^HX^T' ^urcs. Deaths. Mr. Baker Brown' 58 32 26 Mr. Bryant lo 6 4 Dr. Clay (Manchester) 107 73 -34 .Mr. Jonatlian Hutchinson 7 4 ^ Mr. Lane ji g ^ Dr. Tyler Smith ig ^ Mr. Spencer Wells ^4 aq