123 CIECULATOUY SYSTEM. it nppronched nearer to the heart, which it always reached. It was at- tended with a sensation of imminent death. The pulse was for the most part slow and small; in many cases, however, the heart palpitated with extraordinary violence, and its impulse was forcible. During the attacks the patients were unable to speak, and after it was over they spoke in a low voice and in single syllables. Eructation occurred in eight patients after the attack, and gave relief; in three or four, towards the close of tlie attack, there were nausea and vomiting. Treatment consisted in cupping, the local application of anaesthetics, and the administration of narcotics. Gbandidier.—Report on Hesmophily, continued from the last in 1854. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 329. The disease appears to be gradually, though slowly, on the increase. In 1820 there were known to exist only 11 bleeding families, in 1839 there were 46, in 1849 100, in 1854 152. The number now is 174, and that of haeraophilic individuals has increased from 452 to ^12. As to geo- graphic distribution, it appears that of all known cases 48 per cent, belong to Germany, 18 per cent, to Great Britain, 9 per cent, to Switzerland and North America, and 8'^ per cent, to France. The most northerly limit of the disease is 61° N., at Christiania ; the most southerly at Palembang, in the East Indies. It has been met with at an elevation of 5000 feet, atTenna a hamlet of the Rheetiau Alps, as well as in the plains of Holland and North Germany. In 2^6 cases of spontaneous haemorrhage epistaxis occurred 122 times, in 11 there was haematemesis; in 33 the intestines, in 34 the oral cavity, in 13 the urethra, in 15 the lungs were the seat. Four times haemorrhage took place from the tips of the fingers, 4 times from a swollen part of the scalp, 3 times from the tongue, 3 times from the ear, once from the eyelid, and 10 times from the female genitals. It has often been observed that the haemorrhagic tendency has shown itself in a much more marked manner after the first artificial bleeding; so much so, that the disease has appeared to date from that time. On more extensive inquiry, however, it seems that the kind of bloodletting has much to do with the result. Venesection and cupping do not seem to be anything like so dangerous as leeching and tooth-drawing. One child of three months old is reported by Dr. Henschel, in New York, to have died from bleeding which took place from the scratch made in vaccination. Vieli states that in the subjects of this tendency wounds appear at first to heal favorably; it is not until about the eighth day that the wounded part swells and becomes so painful that syncope and convulsions ensue not unfrequently. A vesicle then forms, which bursts and bleeds, whereupon those symptoms remit, but recur if an attempt is made to arrest the haemorrhage. If this succeeds, the tumour, which is of spongy character, dries up, falls off, and leaves a simple ulcer. The loss of blood is often very considerable, but Vieli and others assert that, as a rule, these iiscmo- philic patients bear the largest losses without injury. Sliglit contusions have often given rise in such persons to enormous effusions of blood, either under the skin, between the muscles, or in the visceral cavities. In some there seems to be an unusual tendency to rheumatoid pains and articular swellings. Occasionally the haemorrhagic tendency ceases, or is replaced by some other disease. Asthma, gout, and white swelling, are