KliPOllT OX 1'KA.CTICAL MEDICINE. cases; in one the whole scnlp wns covered with a brownish secrelion, like car-wnx. Si/cosis is described as dependent on inflnnmiation and suppu- ration of the hnir-foUicles, and not as a parasitic disease. Extraction of the hairs is necessary, and subsequently applications arc to be made of solutions of Ilydr. IMchl., Pot. lod., or spirit of tar, according as the skin is morbidly reddened, or indurated, or covered with scales. Fatty and oily substances are generally injurious, but glycerine and volk of egg arc beneficial, ylloj^ecia was never found to depend] on tlie develop- ment of fungi about the roots of the hairs. Its remote causes appeared to be—exanthemata in four cases, disorders of menstruation in three, erysi- pelas of the head in one. As remedies, various stimulating drugs are recommended—Sulph. lod. with Peruvian balsam, biniodide of mercury with Tr. Lyttae, frictions with green soap, vapour douches, &c. Of lupus, fifty-seven cases were treated. The disease consists in the development of degenerate yellowish cells, occupying the tissue of the cutis and the sub- jacent connective. In lupus non-exedens these cells simply cause an atrophy of this tissue ; in lupus hypertrophicus they form knotty growths, covered with crusts and scales; in lupus exulcerans they break up, and destroy the parts where they are deposited. Tiie use of caustics, espe- cially of chloride of zinc, is essential. The morbid tissue is converted by these into a black slough, which is thrown off in six or eight days, after which the cauterization is repeated. A spirituous solution of the chloride may be used for 1. superf and 1. exulccr.; but in 1. hypertroph. the solid form is better, or Potassa fusa. Lupus erythematosvs begins with red, somewhat infiltrated, and itching spots, which either form sebaceous crusts or give rise to a transformation of the epidermis into a liorny or shagreen-like structure. Its treatment is the same as that of lupus. Ephelides.—Two very marked cases were improved by friction of green soap, followed by a pomade consisting of camphor, solution of Pot. Garb., and milk of sulphur. Melasma is cured by vesicants which remove the epidermis. As to si/philitic skin diseases, the author says there are no characteristic signs, but the absence of itching, the swelling of the glands, the i-apid supervention, the colour, and the localization, as well as the history of infection make the diagnosis pretty certain. These eruptions are most obstinate when they occur in scrofulous, gouty, or tuberculous individuals. In ten cases out of fifty-two the constitutional disease appeared to have originated in an obstinate gonorrhoea rather than in a chancre. The time from the infection to the origin of the indurated chancre varied from twenty-four to thirty-six days ; thai from the appear- ance of the chancre to that of the syphilide from sixteen days to twenty- three years. Ulmek, L.—Wien. Med. Halle, iii, 5, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p.182. Records a case of pemphigus acutus, a disorder so rare that but one case has been met with among 300,000 cases of skin disease. It is cha- racterised by severe, almost typhous fever, a copious and spreading erup- tion of vesicles, and non-recurrence after recovery. H. Hertz records a case of pemphig. chronic, attended with amyloid degeneration of the liver and spleen.