NEUHO-RETINITIS. 363 raal position yet further inwards, indeed as far as normally, upwards, downwards, and into the intermediate positions. . ^ Let us now proceed to the next symptom, the interference with vision. She sees double; the diplopia disappears on the closure of one eye, and has all the characters proper to such a position of the globe. The double images are direct,* placed on the same level, and stand upright; they are at a great distance from one another in the middle line,°and they separate still further when the object is moved towards the left side." The diplopia is not, however, the only symptom of defec- tive vision. If she closes an eye, it matters not whether it is the right or the left, the vision remains very indistinct, which, as you know, is not the case in simple strabismus from a muscular affection. We can readily imagine that the power of accommodating may be also para- lysed. Such a suspicion appears to me improbable, owing to the per- fectly free action of the pupil, for it very rarely happens in such cases that the tensor choroidere is affected without the sphincter. Trials with convex glasses, which we now accordingly apply, show that the accom- modation is either not at all or ouly very slightly affected ; and, on the other hand, that the acuteness of vision is much diminished, for with the right eye she deciphers specimens of print only under a visual angle thirty times greater, and with the left eye only under one twenty times greater, than the normal (Snellen's letters, No. xii, with the right eye and + lo to 5", with the left eye and the same glass to 7"; No. vi, right side with + 5 not quite to 3", left side to 4"; the letter A in No. CC with both eyes to 12', and, indeed, furthest without any glass—illumination that of average daylight). No way of explaining this amblyopia appears more easy than to assume that the optic nerve is paralysed, for the same intracranial cause which has produced paralysis of the abducens, contraction of the intemus, and the former paresis of the left arm, may well be supposed to have interfered with the functions of the optic nerve. In such a condition as the present, examination of the field of vision is of special importance. We know tliat one-sided lesions in the substance of the brain, whether apoplexies, centres of inflammation, or tumours, whenever they interfere with the optic nerve, produce the so-called same-sided hemiopia. There is a hemiopic deficiency in the visual field of each eye to the left side when the cerebral lesion is on the right side—to the right, when the brain is affected on the left side—because the para- lysed optic tract proceeding from the diseased half of the brain sends its fasciculus lateralis to the outer half of the retina on the same side, its fasciculus cruciatus to the inner half of the retina on the opposite side. Such a hemiopia is characterised, for simple anatomical reasons, muscles J such a condition is, accordingly, far more likely to occur in encephalo- meningitis than in simple hreaking-up of the cerebral nervous substance by extra- vasations of blood. The squint which accompanies the well-known basal meningitis of children is generally the result of such a mixed condition, and not of a pure paralysis. * Perhaps, " corresponding " would be a better term than " direct j" the meaning is, that the image on the right side belongs to the right eye, that on the left to the left eye.—T. W.