MATERIA CHIRURGICA AJiD MEDICAL TREATMENT. 181 with an equal amount of water, was introduced into the mouth thrice a day, and compresses wet with the strong solution were applied to the external wound; in two hours the smell had disappeared; so long as the dressings were kept moist, the disagreeable odour could scarcely be perceived, that of the nitro-benzine being predominant. This treat- ment, continued for forty-eight hours, allowed the nurses to approach the patient, which they had been unwilling to do before. The child died; the external applications were continued in the dead-house, and the offensive odour' did not return. The weak solution, used as an injection in a ease of fetid discharge from the vulva, completely removed the odour. The hypochlorites are undoubtedly excellent disinfectants, acting, as they do, on the volatile products of putrefaction and on the wounded surface; on the other hand, their disagreeable odour annoys the patient, they often irritate, and appear in some cases to increase, rather than to diminish, the suppuration. The author has found the method of M. Hervieux ('Tear-book' for 1862, p. 203) successful in a great number of cases; he saw it employed by its originator in a case of recto-vaginal fistula; it acted eificiently as a disinfectant, and cicatrization soon ensued. He found, however, its action on scrofulous wounds so irri- tating that he had to abandon its use. Nevertheless the hypochlorites will be always the best of all means for disinfecting the vicinity of a patient, owing to the volatile nature of their active constituent. The disagreeable odour of chlorine may be completely masked by adding, immediately before its use, ten to fifteen drops of nitro-benzine to a litre (2-1 Engl, pints) of the liquid hypochlorite. The constitutional treatment is of great importance in all unhealthy wounds; wine, quinine, and preparations of iron, must be freely used. Dr. Boinet ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1862, pp. 626, 644, 708) considers that fetidity or putrid fermentation of purulent secretions is only one of the causes which impede the cicatrization of wounds. A medicament which would simply remove the unpleasant odour would be of little value, compared with one which would modify the wound and prevent the se- cretion of unhealthy pus ; to promote cicatrization, it must act on both the pus and the secreting surface. The ancients made use of numerous detergents, such as various irritants, caustics, the actual cautery, all of which acted more or less efficiently as disinfectants. In 1859 Velpeau, in the name of MM. Corne and Demeaux, described as marvellous the effects of coal-tar and plaster of Paris on unhealthy wounds. Later experience, however, has shown that this powder is rather an absorbent than a veritable disinfectant, masking the odour rather than destroying it. As the powder was removed with difficulty from a wound, was unplea- santly heavy, required frequent renewal, even five or six times a day, and dirtied the linen, it was soon abandoned. According to M. Renault, neither animal nor vegetable charcoal has any disinfecting power. Per- chloride of iron has proved of use in hospital gangrene and purulent infection; its liquid form renders it of ready application ; it disinfects fetid wounds ; it decomposes sulphurous and ammoniacal gases; it destroys, or rather diminishes, the pulpy secretion with which the wound is covered ; and it stimulates the tissues without exciting inflammation.