RES-PIRATORY SYSTEJr. 165 ScHiiANT, J. M.—On Skoda s doctrine of Consonance. Nedeil. Tijdsclir., p. 481, 1863. Schmidt's Jalu-b., vol 118, p. 327. Schrant divides consonance into—(i) Simple ringing consonance. This shows the presence of cavities with firm walls ; it gets the tubal character when it is produced in a bronchus ; if it meets with rales, they also be- come consonating or ringing. (2) Nasal consonance. This indicates sound- ing spaces with firm walls, and of more or less tubular shape (segophony). In'it the three properties of being strengthened, of a more distinct articu- lation, and of the nasal tone, must be distinguished; the first two are explicable by the mere conduction of sound in tubes, the third is only to be explained by consonance. (3) Amphoric, and (4) metallic consonance. They often occur together, and indicate free-sonuding spaces with firm walls ; the latter proceeds from smaller, the former from larger, cavities with smooth spherical walls. In very small cavities the metallic clang may be generated only by percussion, and not by consonance. (5) Vocal con- sonance. The respiratory mnrmur presents not unfrequently modifications which resemble the sound of certain vowels. That which suggests the idea of the vowel i usually proceeds from a narrower tube than that which suggests the idea of a or u. Hyde Salter, M.D., F.R.S.—Clinical Lecture on Pleurisy. Brit. Med. Jour., July nth, i8th. Salter considers that serous inflammations, even of catai'rhal origin, arise from blood-poisoning. According to his experience, segophony depends on the presence of a certain quantity of fluid, the symptom ceasing when the amount of fluid is very large. Its persistence after good vesicular breathing has returned, as in one of his cases, Salter explains by supposing that a gelatinous coating of fibrine existing where it is heard is suflicient for its production. He does not believe that sego- phony is generated at the upper margin of the efi'used fluid. Several points are indicated as aids to determine whether in a given case the pain is the result of pleurisy, or rheumatism. The principal are that in rheu- matism the pain may be very severe and the pulse unaff"ected; the pain is produced by pressure upon as well as between the ribs, and by the movement of muscles which cannot affect the pleura. Percussion dulness and diminished vocal fremitus are very slow in disappearing. To give rest, to allay pain, and to promote vital power, are the indications to be fulfilled in the treatment. BowDiTcii, H. J., M.D.—Paracentesis Thoracis. Amer. Quart. Journ. of the Med. Sc., Jan., 1863. Bowditch gives a resume of his experience for twelve years, containing the results of 160 operations on eighty-five persons. He has never seen the least permanent evil resulting from any operation,and only the slightest temporary difficulties, such as pain, slight dyspnoea, stricture, or cough, &c. This shows the innocuousness of the operation by means of the exploring trocar and suction-pump as suggested by Dr. Wyman. Frequency of the operation.—One lady was tapped nine times during eight and a half months ; commencing when she was four and a half months pregnant, and in whom the orthopncea was several times so great that death would have