REPORT ON PIIACTICAL MEDICINE. 17 Go patient being unable to grasp firmly, &c. Bullae or blisters are frequent, particularly on the extremities. In most cases they appear to be the result of irritation, sometimes, however, they occur in a perfectly spon- taneous manner. Deep ulcers by no means generally follow. In the course of a few months or longer the disease becomes confirmed ; the extent and degree of anoesthesia show that the nerve-trunks are deeply implicated. The skin of the hands and feet becomes dry and shrivelled • the fingers and toes atrophied and bent; the wasting continues slowly] but surely, until the leper becomes a poor cripple; his general health] strength, and mental faculties, impaired, and the more so in proportion as he suffers from want and exposure. According to Carter's observation, there is rather a diminution than an increase of the sexual passion. Morbid anatomy.—Fourteen autopsies have been made, eight of the anaesthetic, and six of the mixed form; disease has been found only in the kidneys and in the nervous system. The disease of the kidneys has been of the hypertrophous kind. With regard to the nervous system, in no case has the brain or spinal cord, or their membranes, been found diseased. The Pacchionian glands were in their usual state. The prin- cipal sympathetic ganglia in the trunk have always seemed healthy, and also those on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; on two occasions the former were examined microscopically, and on two others the spinal cord and the ganglia, with the same results. The roots of the spinal nerves have always had a healthy appearance, and also the large nerves forming the various plexuses in the neck, abdomen, and pelvis. But those nerve-trunks distributed to the affected parts have invariably been found diseased ; they are enlarged, of a reddish-gray colour, mottled or streaked in appearance, and of firm consistence, though supple; their investment of connective tissue, or neurilemma, is free from opacity or adhesion, so that there is commonly no evidence whatever of inflammation (if that process be limited to the neurilemma) ; although I have once found the ulnar nerve at the elbow of a pink colour, and adherent at one or two points, also the musculo-cutaneous and posterior-tibial nerves in a similar state, and therefore would not deny the occasional occurrence of appearances which may be regarded as evidences of inflammation of the nerve-sheath ; but in these and in all other cases the funiculi, or separate nerve-strands, have presented one uniform change of structure; in the last-named instances it ought also to be mentioned that the foot was in a gangrenous state, and phlebitis was present, so that the nerves may have become implicated by continuity, and in the instance of the ulnar nerve it is possible that some local external injury may have induced adhesion at the place of infliction. The funiculi of the nerves are the seat of the morbid changes, the nerve-tubules of which they are formed are separated and compressed by the development of a clear nucleated tissue amongst them, and eventually so much altered as to be even wholly destroyed. These unique changes are fully described in the ' Trans, of the Path. Soc. of London,' vol. xiii, p. [3. The morbid lesion is confined, not only to cutaneous nerves, but to those nerves only after they have emerged from beneath the fascia and muscles which may have overlaid them in the first part of their course, so that the radial nerve, e. rj., becomes swollen just after passing beneath the tendon of the supinator longus muscle ; so with