ItEl'ORT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. Cerebral thrombosis, as compared with cerebral embolia, occurs in a much more advanced period of life, after pre-existing cerebral symptomp, and sometimes gradually advancing disease; is more associated with fatty change of the heart and arcus senilis, and less with valvular disease; the radial arteries and others are sometimes ossified, but gangrene of the limbs and iufarcta rarely occur. Lancereaux distinguishes an inflammatory and non-inflammatory form of thrombosis of the cerebral sinuses. Of seventy-four cases he collected, thirty-nine were of the former and thirty- five of the latter kind. Virchow and v. Dusch do not, however, admit this distinction. Non-inflammatory thrombosis occurs chiefly in children and old men, and is induced by tumours which interfere with the circu- lation, or by weakening diseases, such as produce cachexia, also by weak- ness of the respiratory muscles, rachitis, tuberculosis, and peritonitis. Sometimes, especially when false membranes form, no cause can be detected. In this form the sinus is firm and tense, and completely filled by the thrombus. Purely fibrinous thrombi are at first completely homo- geneous, firm, apparently lamellated, non-adherent to the wall of the sinus. At a later period they become yellowish, and soften in their interior into a puriform fluid, turbid, with granular and white corpuscles. The thrombus does not adhere to the wall of the sinus until a later period, in consequence of the formation of connective tissue. Pseudo-membranous formations, in the shape of plugs, bridge-like bands, or tendinous threads, are sometimes present, while on the distal side of the vessel the canal be- comes obstructed by coagulated blood or fibrine. The superior longitu- dinal sinus is the usual seat of the thrombi, and they extend from thence to the adjacent sinuses. The brain is scarce ever inflamed, but frequently tliere is passive dilatation of the veins of the membranes and cerebral substance, with numerous spots of capillary apoplexy, in rare instances attaining a larger size. Patches of softening of the brain are often found, which are the result of the impeded circulation and defective nutrition of the tissue. The patches are mostly symmetrical, and occupy the surface of both middle lobes, involving especially the gray matter. The symptoms are very obscure. Epistaxis (in thrombosis of the superior longitudinal sinus), and unequal distension of the external jugular veins (in thrombosis of the lateral sinuses), are of no great value, especially when the patients are children. The consecutive phenomena are those of cerebral pressure, of passive congestion, and sometimes of softening of the brain. At first there is a fixed gaze, strabismus, cephalalgia, grinding of the teeth, con- tractions and convulsions ; the latter occur also in adults, and resemble those of epilepsy. Subsequently there is clouding of the intellect, drowsi- ness, syncope, coma, dilatation of the pupils, giddiness, vomiting ; more rarely, and only a short time before death, paralysis ensues. The diagnosis is very uncertain, and can only be based on a general consideration of all the symptoms, or be arrived at by exclusion of other affections. The previous occurrence of profuse diarrhoea with exhaustion of the system, of cerebral symptoms with depression of the fontanelles and imbricated overlapping of the cranial bones, as M-ell as unequal distension of the jugular veins, should direct one's attention to a thrombosis of the sinuses. It should, however, be remembered that all these signs may be absent, especially in adults. Inflammatory thrombosis of the sinuses is invariably