llEPORT ON MIDWIPERYj ETC. 350 suapeuds the deviation for the time, although it may reappeai* after delivery or at the coasatiou of nursing, 8. Although compatible with health, and occasionally existing for the whole period between puberty and the time of the cessation of men- struation, the deviation is a pathological condition ; nay, more, it is not free from danger, having occasionally been the cause of death. Dr. Matthews Duncan describes the state of the cervix uteri in a woman who died in the eighth month of pregnancy (' Trans, of Med.- Chir. Society of Edinburgh,' June 1863, and 'Ed. Med. Journal,' Sept., 1863). The cervix measured about an inch in length. It easily admitted the finger. Its tissue was much hypertrophied, and com- pletely softened in every part. The rugse, especially the anterior and posterior columnje, were greatly hypertrophied and very prominent. The lower margin of the cervix could easily be identified by the presence of a row of Nabothean follicles; the upper margin by the abrupt termination of the arbor vitse, and the expansion into the smooth-walled cavity of the uterus. The internal surface of the body of the uterus, examined microscopically after the chorion was detached from it, showed no denudation of the muscular fibres, but the surface formed of a layer easily detached, in an early stage of putridity, composed of decidual structures, especially of fusiform nucle- ated cells, which seemed to be less fusiform in shape and rounder the nearer they were to the chorion. B-oederer held that after the fifth month the cervix is gradually expanded from above downwards, and contributes to the formation of the cavity of the pregnant uterus (' Elementa artis Obstetriciae,' Got- tingen, 1759, p. 23). Weitbrecht, in his treatise ('De TJtero Muliebri,' 1750), first described the true development of the cervix in pregnancy, and showed by actual dissection that it remains imdeveloped till a short time before parturition. This view is confirmed by the course of the uterine artery as it approaches the cervix, and also by the situation of the broad ligaments iipon the side of the uterus, which remain, during pregnancy, nearly the same as in the unimpregnated state. If the cervix were developed—as most writers assert—then it woidd necessarily follow that, with the growth and expansion of the cervix into the lower part of the great iiterine cavity, the uterine arteries and the lower parts of the broad ligaments would be elevated, accompanying the growing adjacent parts, and that the arteiy would approach some part of the expanded uterus. Dr. A. S. Donkin, in a paper on " The Physiological Action of the Uterus in Parturition" ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' Dec, 1863), disputes the accuracy of Wigand's theory that the contractions of the uterus in par- turition are essentially peristaltic, commencing in the cervix and gradually advancing into the fundus, and then pursuing a retrograde course to the point from which they originated. Dr. Murphy (' Lect.