79 NERVOUS SYSTEM. I positively and all parts of the interior negatively, some part of the exte- rior is electrified negatively and some part of the interior positively ; and the result is that there must be a continual combination and disappear- ance of electricity in the exterior and in the interior between the parts of the fibre in which the natural electrical relations of the interior and exte- rior are preserved and the part in which these relations are reversed. The result, that is to say, is one in which the nerve must lose electricity as long as this reversal continues, for itis alaw of electricity that opposite electricities combine and neutralize each other, if there be nothing to prevent them yielding to their natural affinities. In other words, the result of the reversal must be to throw the nerve from the state of inaction into that of action, for it has been seen (v. ii) that a nerve loses electricity when this takes place. On this view Radcliffe thinks there is no difficulty in understanding how, according as its seat may be in ordinary motor nerves or ganglia, in sensory nerves or ganglia, in the cerebral hemi- spheres, or in vaso-motor nerves or ganglia, the "irritation" may be attended by morbid contractions of the common muscles, by morbid sen- sations of various kinds, by morbid mental movements, or by morbid con- tractions of the blood-vessels; and how, according as its seat may have been in one or other of those parts of the nervous system which have just been mentioned, the irritation may end by paralysing one or other of those parts, and by producing in this manner paralysis of the ordinary muscles, or anaesthesia and conditions allied to it, or partial and general stupor and coma, or congestion and inflammation. The latter Radcliffe seems to derive from a state of exhaustion and paresis of the vaso-motor nerves and ganglia, induced by the previous irritation. (93) The general conclusion to be deduced from the consideration of the condition of the respiration and circulation and innervation during convulsion is this — that the pathology of convulsion is as much in harmony with the view of muscular motion set forth in these lectures as it is out of harmony with the current view of the subject—that, in fact, convulsion is the sign of depressed and not of exalted vital action. (94) The diet in many cases of chronic convulsive disorder ought to contain somewhat more than an average quantity of oily and fatty matters, and somewhat less than an average quantity of lean meat. Radcliffe fears that a largely meat diet is likely to generate a semi-gouty condition. (95) There is reason to believe that gymnastic exercises are very beneficial in the great majority of chronic convulsive cases. In ir.ore than one case the patient has stated that an impending attack has been warded off by exercise of this kind, which acts beneficially on the respiration as well as on the other functions. (96) The action of cod-liver oil is beneficial in the great majority of cases of chronic convulsive disorder, and so also is that of phosphorus, both being im- portant constituents of nervous tissue. The ethereal tincture of phos- phorus is the form he prefers, of which he gives about u^v mixed with sulphuric ether, now and then, especially when there seems to be need for a stimulant. (98) Radcliffe doubts the suitableness of belladonna as a remedy in many cases of epilepsy and other forms of chronic convulsive disorder, chiefly, as it seems, because he regards it as producing an anae- mic condition of the brain. Opium, on the contrary (99), he looks on as a suitable remedy in some cases, because it produces an opposite effect.