UESPIBATOEY SYSTEM. 145 blood, and are more relaxed. If in tliese examples the body is opened after the heart has entirely stopped the influence of the air produces reaction ^ within a few seconds after the exposure there is contraction of the right auricle, then of the right ventricle; if any blood remain in the left cavities their walls also follow, and the whole organ may appear in active play. Experimenters, on witnessing these contractions, have assumed that the action of the heart has been continuous, and that it was capable of performing its functions if the respirations were but adequately assisted. This is, however, a mistake; the action is a re-excitement con- sequent on the admission of air to its surface, and is due to a feeble com- bination of the oxygen of the air with the blood still remaining in the mus- cular walls. Again, the contraction observed, vigorous though it may seem, is not propulsive contraction ; it never suffices to drive on a pulmonic cir- cuit ; it excites no dilatation of arteries; hence it is a useless exhibition of force, having as little power in restarting a circulatory movement as the jactitations of the muscles of the limbs in the typhus patient have power to make the patient rise and walk about. The condition of the lungs varies, like that of the heart, according to the time of dying. The lungs, in this respect, go with the left side of the heart If the occlusion is sudden and complete, the lungs present no unnatural appearance ; if the occlusion is imperfect and the struggle is prolonged, the lungs will be found contain- ing blood in the pulmonary artery and in the pulmonary veins ; while if the struggle is greatly prolonged, they are intensely congested. These dif- ferences in the degree of pulmonary congestion depend on the length of time during which the heart continues to act and to send blood to the lungs; and this, again, depends on the amount of air which the lungs can receive. If the occlusion of the trachea is sudden and complete, the heart stops very soon ; if the reverse, the heart continues to act much longer. The sinuses of the brain are congested, like the right side of the heart, when death occurs rapidly. If the death is prolonged, there will be con- gestion, and a little serous effusion. These signs are much more marked when there has been pressure at the same time on the jugular veins. The glands are all more or less congested, as well as the alimentary canal. In drowning at common temperatures, the blood is found dark and fluid, but coagulates on exposure to air and warmth ; the heart is congested on the right side, but also contains blood on the left; the lungs are engorged, and the bronchial tubes contain a little watery sanguineous fluid; the brain and the glands are congested, but not structurally injured. As examples of the phenomena produced by the inhalation of narcotic vapours, Richardson takes death from chloroform and from carbonic acid. The first, like several others, kills by an affirmative process, the other by simple negation. Chloroform destroys life by its power of arresting oxidation by its mere presence ; carbonic acid by simply displacing air. The morbid appearances after death by chloroform are very definite when observed in their pure state, as in experiments on animals ; in fatal cases occurring in the human subject they are more or less modified. The blood is not materially altered in any way, even its colour is not much changed. The condition of the heart after death from chloroform purely is invariably the same : the right cavities are filled with blood, and the left are contracted and empty ; the arteries are also empty, or nearly so. If aus- 10