818 REPORT ON SURGERY. subject of lithotomy in the female, bearing in mind always that, though the first object is undoubtedly to remove the stone with as little risk as possible to the life of the patient, yet that it is of almost equal import- ance that this should be done without permanent injury to the reten- tive function of the bladder and urethra. These conclusions arc briefly as follows:— " ist. That dilatation of the urethra should only bo employed for the removal of stones of very limited size; otherwise it is attended with serious risk of incontinence of urine, that incontinence heincf incurable. " 2nd. That incisions of the urethra in the doiunward direction should be discarded altogether; but that the incision tiptvards may be practised with but little danger to life, and little risk of incontinence of urine. It is not, however, adapted for the removal of stones of any considerable magnitude, neither is it well suited for children. I believe free incision to be preferable to any combination of incision with dilatation. "3rd. That the vesico-vaginal incision, with immediate closure of the wound by suture, is admirably adapted for the removal of stones in the case of adult women, in whom the vagina is of average capacity; that it is the only safe and available method for the removal of stones of large size ; that it is attended with a minimum of immediate risk, and no risk at all permanent incontinence of urine. "4th. That the lateral operation of Dr. Buchanan is founded upon sound anatomical and surgical principles, and is probably the best opera- tion that can be practised in children. It is also well adapted for young and unmarried women, in whom the small size of the vagina would contra-indicate the vesico-vaginal method. In these latter cases the choice would, therefore, be between the lateral operation and the incision upwards of the urethra. " 5th. That there are scarcely any conceivable circiunstances which would render the high operation above the pubes justifiable. " 6th. That the ' vestibular' operation of LiSfranc possesses no merit of its own to compensate for its manifest disadvantages." G-. AUarton, treatise on modern median lithotomy. M. Civiale, statistics ('Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1863, p. 42). C. F. Hecker, on encysted stones ('Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iii; ' Gurlt's Eeport,' p. 438). M. Giraldes on stone in children (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 465). M. Dolbeau, case of very large stone (ib., 1863, p. 403). L. Bauer, on the recto-vesical operation (-Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,' iii, 158). M. Civiale, lectures on lithotrity ('Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1863, p. 153, &c.). VLKSTD AKD rOOT. On disease of tie astragalo-calcaneal joint, produced by injury, by E. W. Coe (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 62). '• From my observation, during the last ten years, of the diseases of the tarsus, more especially of those following upon slight blows or sprains, I may safely assert that the astragalo-calcaneal joint is more frequently affected than either of the other tarsal joints ;'that, from the functions and anatomical charac- ter of the astragalo-calcaneal articulation, the bones entering mto its composition very frequently and early participate in its diseases ; that.