438 REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. following raetliod by which the amount of blood extracted by leeches may bo very greatly increased, and which he calls bdellatomy. It consists in making an incision into the caudal extremity of the animal, at the moment when it has sucked itself full. The blood gushes out at once like a fountain, but the animal continues to suck. Dr. Beer tried this plan first on a leech applied to his own finger. After an hour it was purposely taken off", though it was still drawing blood. The length of time_ during which a leech will continue to suck, which has been incised in this way, does not appear to have been ascertained. It may always be detached from the skin, Avhen desired, by the application of a little common salt. It is not injured by the operation, it remains quite fresh and active, and regains almost its original size ; a slight con- traction only remains at the point where the incision was made. Groltdamme]', of Berlin, has manufactured instruments of two kinds for the special purpose of bdellatomy; a lancet appears, however, to be all that is required for the performance of this operation. The cut should be made at the side of tlie under surface of the leech. "When it is made on the dorsum, the leech ceases to suck. It is necessary to avoid the ring next to the foot, because the anus is at this point, but on the dorsal surface. The twenty-fourth and twenty-ninth rings, counting from the anterior sucker, must also not be injured, as they contain the openings of the sexual passages in the median line of the abdominal surface. One of the advantages of bdellatomy is that the amount of blood extracted by leeches may be pretty accurately ascertained, by allowing the incised extremity of the animal to hang over into a gra- duated vessel, and by collecting the blood which escapes when the cut is made. No ill eff"ects have been observed to follow the adoption of this plan. The danger of secondary ha3morrhage is not increased. The wound made by the leech heals in the ordinary manner. AYhen rapid extraction of blood is required, Beer recommends that several leeches be applied at the same time, and that they be all incised. Leeches which have been used in cases of contagious disease should, of course, not be applied afterwards to persons whose malady is not of that cha- racter, lest the disease be propagated ; but Eawitz has shown tliat the mortality in leeches, after their use, is much greater in typhus than in ordinary diseases, amounting to 70 per cent, in the former class of cases, and only to 3 7—40 per cent, in the latter. M. Eoucher (' Graz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 359) remarks that, in disgorging leeches of their blood, too much force is often used. This causes lacerations of the animal's body, leading to gangrene of the anterior extremity, an affection which does not kill the leech, but which renders it useless, from the loss of the incisive apparatus. Considerable manual dexterity is, therefore, required in doing this. Kleist (' Schmidt's Jahrbiicher,' 1863, No. 8) recommends putting the leech, as soon as it falls off", into a small flat saucer, containing dilute vinegar. The appli- cation of solutions of common salt to leeches is not judicious. It produces a prejudicial effect on them, so that they become affected by disease (' Knotenkrankheit'). The best plan that can be adopted is to dip tlie head of the leech only in dilute vinegar, and gently to remove the blood, b^ compressing the animal with one liand, about 3"' froni