HKPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINB. ]10 to the obstructed vessel is never affected, but only the middle part, on account of the influence of the collnteral circulation. Cerebral softening from pliigging-up of the capillaries differs from that which has been de- scribed by the existence of small scattered foci on the surface or in the intei'ior of the cerebral substance ; and in softening from obstruction of the venous sinuses, there are the same, corresponding to the course of the sinus, mingled with numerous capillary apoplexies and red colour of tlie softened pulp. Softening also ensues from encephalitis, and is charac- terised by actual formation of pus, with induration of the surrounding tissue. Softening may further be produced by the formation of plastic e.tudation or alteration of the connective tissue in the brain, probably as a result of constitutional syphilis. Lastly, tumours or hsemorrbagic effusions may in a kind of mechanical way produce softening. All these latter forms of softening arc, however, comparatively rare, as Lancereaux in twenty-two cases found sixteen to depend on obstruction of vessels. In most of the other internal organs the results of vascular obstruction are quite similar to the forms of softening which occur in the brain. They are known under the names of capillary phlebitis, of multiple fibrous deposits, capillary embolias, but especially as hsemorrbagic or fibrinous infarcta. Three stages may be distinguished. In the first there is some swelling of the diseased part; the parenchyma is not or only a little softened, sometimes even indurated ; the colour is red, brownish, or violet; the form in the spleen and kidneys is more conical, in membranous organs is flatter and patch-like. The blood-vessels are full of blood, and the tissue-elements begin to degenerate and to show granulations. No deposit of heterologous material is ever found, and the name of fibrinous infarctum is therefore incorrect. In the second period the infarctum becomes more yellow, and gradually darker; its consistence varies accord- ing to the amount of connective tissue in the part; in the liver, spleen, and kidneys it is increased, so that one speaks of a yellow induration of these organs. In the lungs the infarctum is like an old apoplectic extravasation or the nucleus of a lobular infiltration. The microscope discovers no new- formed connective tissue, but only the granular debris of tissue-elements, white blood-cells, and very numerous molecular granulations. The vessels and the connective stroma undergo, though more slowly, the alterations which have been mentioned. The blood also decomposes, the colourless corpuscles becoming more or less granular; the red, irregular, granular, pale; and the free hsematine collecting into amorphous masses. The third phase is different according to the size of the obstructed vessels. If they are small, the broken-up tissue is quickly absorbed by the adjacent blood- vessels, and depressed cicatrices remain. When larger vessels are plugged up, only a part of the involved tissue is absorbed; the rest becomes diflBuent, and forms a milky, puriform, or greenish fluid, surrounded by irregularly torn walls. The microscope detects here nothing but debris of the tissues and altered blood. There is no ground for the opinion that inflammation and suppuration have occurred. The cause of cmbolia m most cases is cardiac disease of some kind or otlier, and especially that which Meissner designates endocarditis ulcerosa acuta, which runs its course with typhoid or pyscmic symptoms, and occurs especially lu weakened persons in the puerperal condition and in acute rheumatism.