LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 15 the fat-formers are more isolated in the intestines, and the pancreatic juice, digesting no albuminates, is concentrated upon them alone. Pavy has proved the insufficiency of the view that the protection of the living stomach from digestion is due to the perpetual renewal of the epitirelium, hy dissecting off a portion of the mucous membrane, and show- ing that digestion of the exposed portion does not ensue. He proposes, instead, the doctrine that the acid of the gastric juice is neutralized by the alkaline blood circulating in the vessels of the part. Numerous ex- periments are adduced; among others, a portion of the living stomach was surrounded by a ligature, digestion was suffered to go on, and it was found that the ligatured portion was digested, the remainder of the organ escaping. The digestion of portions of living animals, and the presence of entozoa within the stomach, are shown to be not incompatible with the view suggested. T. LXilPHATIO STlSTEM. VoK EECKLiKGHArsEsr, r.—On tlie Absorption of Fat. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxvi, p. 172. ToMSA, W.—On the part taken ly the Origins of the Lymphatic Vessels in Wzitrifion mid Inflammation. Casopis Idk cesk, 7, 8, 9. Viertel- jahrschrift fur die Prak. Heilkunde, vol. iii, Analekten, p. 2. On injecting blood, or milk, or a solution of sugar coloured with cin- nabar, Indian ink, or cobalt, into the peritoneum of rabbits, v. Kecklinghausen found, that while the lymphatics of all other parts remained unaltered, those of the tendinous centre of the diaphragm became distended, and exhibited fat-globules, blood-corpuscles, or particles of colouring matter, according to the iiuid used. He found also that he could produce the same result on portions of the tendinous centre which he removed, with precautions to secure their natural tension. He succeeded also in detecting the details of the process be- neath the microscope. At certain points of the lymphatic vessels in this region there were formed ' whirlpools,' to which all the corpuscles of milk placed in contact with the membrane were rapidly attracted, and after passing through them reappeared within the vessels. By means of a solution of silver, dark spots were prodiiced in the region of these whirlpools, which spots v. Kecklinghausen considers to indicate the presence of openings in the walls of the lymphatics. These openings are twice the size of the blood-corpuscles, and as large as the largest globules of milk. These lymphatics, therefore, in the rabbit, communi- cate by open mouths with the cavity of the peritoneum. The purpose of this communication, in v. Eecklinghausen's view, is to effect the absorption of the peritoneal fluid, which, like that of all the large cavities, contains corpuscles similar to those of lymph. Openings in the lymphatic vessels of the pleura and pericardium, however, were not detected. On examining the forces by which this motion of fluids into the lymphatics is effected, y. Kecklmghausen found that it was indepeu-