37 GENJiUAL SYSTEM. were found injured, and tliere was suppurative spinal meningitis. The small intestines were very fragile, their follicles swollen, their mucous membrane, as well as that of the ascending colon, roughened as if witli sand on its surface. After cleansing the mucous membrane it was seen to be covered here and there with white roundish scales of about the size of poppy seeds, which followed the course of the minute vessels. On microscopical examination of these scales with the aid of acid, they were found to be made up of calcareous molecules deposited on tlie surface of the mucous membrane and alogg the vessels, the glands remaining free. Schott cites Virchow's statement that, in all the six cases observed by him, important changes had taken place in the kidneys, and that these altera- tions ought to be looked upon as of great importance with reference to the calcareous deposition, seeing that in obstructed excretion of calcareous salts by the kidneys, the deposition of these salts must occur. Tlie author ohserves that, in most cases of calcareous deposit, a disease of the bone existed, and that among the cases of Virchow, only one exists in which no source for the calcareous salts was to be found; whilst in his own case, though there was certainly disease of bone, yet it was of very short standing, and, moreover, no disease of the kidneys existed ; con- sequentlj', an essential cause for the calcareous deposit was absent. He also notices the fact that, in most of the cases of calcareous metastasis reported, the lungs more frequently than the stomach or bones were the seat of the deposit. GENERAL SYSTEM. LATHAsr, P. M.—General reviarks on the practice of medicine. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 3, 10, 17, 24. In Jan. 17th No., Latham records two cases of extreme frequency and rapidity of pulse, which came on suddenly, in the first to all appear- ance as the result of puerperal fever poison, a rigor having preceded forty- eight hours. Death ensued in about twenty-four hours, without the fever having developed itself. In the second, a lady, set. 40, was suddenly attacked with death-like prostration, which continued for five days and nights. Stimulants were freely administered the whole time, and kept the heart from quite stopping. At last, reaction began to appear, scar- latina eruption showed itself, the disease ran a favorable course, and tiie patient recovered. Latham remarks that such cases prove the true significance of the frequent pulse, viz., that it is a sign and a measure of the degree in which life, and the powers of life, are affected and fail. lie goes on to mention the following curious circumstance which, he says, he has often observed. The nervous system having reached the degree of collapse indexed by the countless fluttering pulse, carries with it the pathological consequence of suspending for the time the course of the disease. Whatever be the disease which it attends, whether scarlatina, or measles, or erysipelas, or small-pox, or whatever be the stage it has reached, at that stage it will stop, and all specific morbid actions come to a stand- still ; perhaps to be resumed, perhaps not. The first, if the nervous system rally and recover ; the second, if the pulse goes on fluttering, though many days have yet to pass before the nervous system has collap.scd into death. When the all-subduing constraint of the nervous