H15P0RT OK SURGEHY. 2-10 misslble only where the epiphysis is perfectly fixed. As to the treatineut of separation of the epiphysis, the prevention of any displacement, the arrest of any pron;ressi\o \vcarin<(-a\vay of tlie fragments—indications which may be fullilhHl hy proirer splints and bandages, though moKt se- curclyby the plaster i)andage—are the conditionw inostfavorablotolibrous, ossifying union. The general treatment during the second period mnst bo tonic and strengthening ; nutritious food, cod-liver oil and iron ; the condition of the digestive organs must be very carefully watched. Amputation must yet be considered one of the means of treatment; performed at a late period during the chronic stage of the osteomyelitis, it presents greater prospect of success, than when the iimb is removed during the acute, progressive stage, as recommended by Chassaignac. Froffiiosis and (luration.—Of the seventeen cases related by the author, thirteen perfectly recovered (76-47 per cent.^. Death resulted twice from pya>mia and twice from exhaustion; in one case it oc- curred so early as the fifteenth day, notwithstanding amputation ; in the three other cases on the tliirty-fourth, seventy-sixth, and one hundred and thirty-eighth day after the commencement of the attack. The prognosis is rendered unfavorable even in the most promising cases by the long duration of the process, and the necrosis which often takes months, or even years, to become complete. The shortest period in which recovery occurred, was ninety-six days, the longest lyo days, calculating only the time from the beginning of the disease to the discharge of the patient. In one case, the necrotic process resulting from osteomyelitis was prolonged for upwards often years. Prof. PiiJia, on the treatment of necrosis li/ operation (' Allg. Wien. Med. Zeitung,' 1863, p. 73, &c.). The author removed in the year 1839, the whole fibula with both epiphyses from a girl of 15, and in another case the whole tibia, for necrosis after acute periostitis ; thecavity left in the first case, though of great size, rapidly filled up, and new bone was formed to a sufficient extent to take the place of the former fibula ; in the second case a steel splint was substituted in place of the tibia, and the patient was thus enabled to walk. In the metatarsus and metacarpus, necrosis is often complicated with osteoporosis; the first and fifth metatarsal bones are those that most often require operative treatment. As a result of inflammation which has been caused hj injury, or arisen spontaneously, the bone enlarges, and the appearances are such, especially in the case of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, that the adjacent bones may be supposed to be diseased ; such a case might be supposed to indicate a Chopart's amputation, the whole anterior part of the foot being apparently implicated. Such errors may be avoided by the careful use of the probe, and by attention to the facf, that the fistulous apertures, however numerous, are situated along the diseased bone. In three cases treated at the military clinic, the first metatarsal bone was found to be much enlarged, in part affected by sclerosis, and covered with osteophytes, in part broken up into larger and smaller fragments; in these cases the whole bone was carefully removed, the periosteum being injured as little as possible, and the great toe preserved. Such an operation is by no means easy, owing to the difficulty of dissecting out the long plantar jirocess of the