202 TIEPOBT ON SUHGERY. Lungs.—" Should further observations prove that many of the cases of disorganization of the lung known as phthisis orig"inate, not in tubercle, but in a low organizablo deposit induced by the syphilitic poison, a very important fact in clinical medicine will have been discovered. There is no doubt that exudations may oceasionally be found in the lungs Avhich resemble in every respect those which have been described as occurring in the liver or other organs, and at the same time it is well known tiiat those persons whose constitutions are broken down by syphilis and debauchery often fall victims to consump- tion; but to connect these two conditions requires many more obser- vations than we have at present at command. For when the lung is disorganized it is very difficult to ascertain the character of the mate- rial which has been poured out into it, and originated the disease ; it may often, indeed, be found to be non-tubercular; but as low forms of inflammatory product are exuded under so many circumstances, Ave require that it should present some characters more marked before it can be pronounced indicative of the syphilitic poison. " An almost endless number of cases might be quoted where, in syphilitic patients, induration of the lung-tissue and local consolidation have been found, but it would be presumptuous, in the present state of our knowledge, to connect these conditions directly with the vene- real taint." Dr. Wilks, therefore, merely relates two examples of cases where a simple deposit was found, and which, corresponding in every respect with similar deposit in other organs of the same case, left no room for doubt. Larynx.—" Ulceration of the larynx is commonly spoken of as one of the effects of syphilis, but it is of a peculiar kind. It is character- ised by the production of a fibro-plastic material, which is always tending to harden and cicatrize under the curative process. It tlius presents marked differences from other forms of ulceration, as for example, the tubercular, where the ulceration spreads, and the sur- roundiug mucous membrane is often highly vascular. In the syphilitic process, when the activity has ceased from the administration of appro- priate remedies, a cicatrization takes place, leaAang the affected part puckered, hard, and shiny, as no other form of disease produces; the epiglottis may be quite destroyed, as well as a considerable portion of the vocal organs ; but the larynx eventually is quite healed, though indurated and otherwise mutilated. The great peculiarity, however, of the syphilitic affection over any other is in the production of a fibroid material in the affected part, without any necessary ulceration, as in a case where only one small abrasion, and that quite recent, existed on the mucous membrane. In this case the upper part of the glottis had become gradually closed by a small nodule or tumour, which corresponded in every respect to a similar deposit in the liver. The disease of the cartilages of the larynx I regard as one of the sequelas of syphilis, and may arise from other causes than the venereal affec- tion!" Trachea and hroncJd.—Dr. "Wilks adduces four cases; in the first there was a remarkable contraction of the trarliea, due to ulceration, at the same time the epiglottis was destroyed, and the interior cica-