321 ETIOLOGY OF CLUB-FOOT. neighbouriiicr joints auci bones are affected, as the ankle-joant a,nd bones and joints of tlie tarsus; or when, superadded to the original disease, there is a well-marked constitutional or scrofulous diathesis, ot such a nature or to such an extent as to render it probable that the restora- tive powers of the patient would not be able to bring to a favorable result the designs of the surgeon in some of the foregoing plans ;^ then, and not till then, do I think amputation of the ankle is justified." B. Volkmann, on the etiology of chih-foot ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, pp. 329, 341). If we allow the name, club-foot, to have its widest signification, we must distinguish, with reference to the etiology, two principal varieties, the ])rimari/ or idiopathic, and tbe secondary or symptomatic. Primary or idiopathic club-foot is always a varus or equino-varus. It must be considered to depend simply on an arrest of development, and is therefore always congenital. Secondary club-foot may be acquired at any period of life, either before or after birth. It is the result of most different changes in the muscles, nerves, and even bones ; so that it is by no means adequately represented by the forms varus, valgus, equinus, and calcaneus. Dieffenbach wrote, in 1841, that infants are always born with "club- foot of the first degree," the soles of the feet being turned towards one another; the correctness of this statement has been recently recog- nised by Henke. The etiological conclusions which may be drawn from this fact have been stated by the friend of Johannes MUller, the Dane Eschricht. He showed ('Deutsche Klinik,' 1851, No. 44; on foetal curvatures) that the form of the fcetus underwent certain changes during the process of normal develoj)ment in the uterus, changes which consisted of unrolling and twisting of entire limbs and portions of the skeleton. The foetus blooms, if it be allowed to say so, like a bud. It unfolds itself; the head, which had been bent till it touched the breast, —not, indeed, because of flexion in the joints of the cervical vertebrse, but because of the very shape of the cranial bones,—becomes more erect. The caudal part of the vertebral column which had been also extremely curved towards the abdomen, straightens in the direction of the longi- tudinal axis of the body, not because of the action of the muscles and joints, but because the bones and soft parts grow straight. Moreover, the lower extremities are peculiarly twisted. It must be here noted, that at the time when they are applied to the surface of the abdomen, they are also twisted in such a mode that their popliteal side, and not their anterior surface, touches the abdomen of the embryo ; and that tlie little, not the great toes, are in contact, a reason why in abnormal union of the pelvic extremities (Sirens) the little toes are always found to be adherent, and why the double limb has at each outer edge a great toe. But tliis unrolling of a lower extremity is not effected by motions of the joints and muscular action; it is the result of a twist in the whole thickness of the limb, and especially of " growth of the bones in a spiral direction." Sych a twist or unfolding arrives at its full completion more slowly in the lower than in the upper part of the extremity; indeed it is not completed at birth, as has been already mentioned. Should it not 21