32a repout on suugeby. take place at nil, or not attain a proper amount at the same part, the foot will be fixed in its false position of varus or equino-varus. Our experience has shown us that almost all cases of congenital club-foot very exactly agree with this embryonal theory, wliicli was first scientifically founded by Eschricht. It will be found on anatomical examination of the newly-born infant aflfected with talipes varus, that every part is adapted to the abnormal form. The skin, muscles', and ligaments are all somewhat too short on the concave side ; even the cartilaginous and osseous surfaces are such as to suit the false position, the form and direction of the articular surfaces being slightly, but still very distinctly, abnormal. The club-foot is idiopathic; neither the nerves, muscles, ligaments, nor bones are primarily affected, nor can it be said that the deformity takes its origin from any one of them. It is true that some authors, especially Scarpa, have urged the secondary characters of the contractions, particularly of those of the muscles and tendons ; but their assertions, though essentially correct, were not sup- ported by sufficiently cogent reasons. So long as it was supposed that a club-foot had been originally of normal form in the uterus, and had only become contracted at 'some later period, medical men naturally recurred to the muscles, or, going further back, to the nerves, the brain, and the spinal cord, for an explanation why the abnormal posi- tion occurred. Thus the supposition generally admitted was that of the primary or antagonistic contraction, of the nervous or, at all events, myopathic nature of club-foot; in short, its origin was generally ex- plained by a meclianical theory. The success of subcutaneous tenotomy appeared to confirm this view, although the supposed nervous origin of congenital club-foot could not explain why its form is so constantly the same, the number of cases of congenital valgus, of pure equinus, calcaneus, being infinitely small in comparison with that of the common equino-varus. According to that supposition, the same nerves must have been always affected. This constancy of form is unfavorable also to the supposed proof drawn from the fact, that malformations of the brain and spinal cord fre- quently accompany club-foot. How could spina bifida, situated as it is in different parts of the spine, and accompanied by most varied con- ditions of the spinal cord, by hydrocephalus, by anencephalus, &c., almost invariably induce irritation of the same nerves ? Just the opposite is the case in the forms of club-foot acquired at a later period of life; especially when the nervous nature of the afi'ection is most certain, is there an extraordinary variety in the form, sometimes pure equinus, sometimes varus, sometimes valgus, &c. It is of importance to notice that there are no signs of retrograde changes in the muscles or nerves in the ordinary cases of congenital club-foot; the most minute dissection only gives a negative result, a statement which has been often made, and one which the author can confirm from his own researches. There is, therefore, a very remark- able difference between the primary and symptomatic forms ; in the latter, and particularly where the affection is primarily nervous, retro- grade parenchymatous changes very soon appear in the muscular tissue. In the primary form no such alterations occur till a late period, when