68 ItEPORT ON PUA.CTICA.L SIKDICINE. female, aet. 2 ^, wlio was six montlis pregnant and nffected with secondary syphilis. Tiio arm was carefully waslicd first, and was quite free from any syphilitic aifection at the part. Some cotton was dipped in the hlood and applied to the arm of the first and the forearm of tlie other two, the epidermis iiaving first been scraped off, and three transverse incisions made. Tlie hlood applied to the two latter pliysicians had already coagulated. Tiiey remained free from any symptoms of infection, but the first, after nil trace of inoculation had quite disappeared, found on the twentieth day n papule at the same spot, which remained dry for nine days, then became moist, and began to ulcerate. The axillary glands had previously enlarged.. Two months after the inoculation nocturnal pains in the head were felt, and general roseola appeared, and the cervical glands enlarged, A little later the ulcer on the arrn was healing, and mercurial treatment was begun. Zeissl.—On Squmnous Syphilitic Eruption. Allg. Wieu. Med. Ztg., vii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 43. Zeissl argues that there is no true eruption of this kind; that those which appear so are either erythematous, or papulous, or tuberculous, or even pustular at the stage of cicatrization. The so-called psoriasis palmaris, or plautaris, which most resembles a true squamous affection, is really a niaculo-papulous erythema, with exudation modified by situation. The firm adhesion of the cutis to the subjacent fascia, the thickness and the less extensibility of the epidermis, and the absence in these parts of sebaceous glands into which exudation usually cliiefly takes place, are the circumstances which Zeissl believes to have this modifying effect. The presence of psoriasis palmaris Zeissl regards as a favorable omen, inasmuch as it seems to exclude the probability of iridial or periosteal suppurative exudations. Wagner, E.—On Sijphiloma. Arch, d. Heilk., iv, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 173. Wagner announces that there is a specific syphilitic new formation, possessing a definite structure of cells and nuclei, just as there is a tuberculous, a sarcomatous, or carcinomatous. The cell growth lies in the interspaces of bundles of connective tissue. Faye and Hebra.—On Radesyge. Wien. Med. Wchnschr., xii, 41, 42, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb, vol. 117, p. 174. Against Hermann's doctrine, that there is no constitutional or con- genital syphilis, but that the morbid phenomena are solely the result of mercurial medication, Faye objects that radesyge, which is in all pro- bability a derivative of syphilis, appears many years after birth in previ- ously healthy children, and is curable by mercury. This is so much the case'that the disease, which used to prevail endemically, is now becoming extirpated. Ilebra has investigated the various nfifections said to be endemic, which are known as Radesyge, Skarljevo, morbus Ditlimarsicus, Falcadina, Boala, Frenga, and Sibbens, and finds that all these terms have been applied to various syphilitic affections, or to lupus. They were supposed to be endemic because their origin was often obscure.