376 IJJiPOllT ON MIDWIl'KRY, ETC. tion, however, Mr. Jurdine Murray forestalled both. To Dr. Barnes belouga the merit of forcibly prosentiug tlie subject to the pro- fession at a later date, of eudeavoiiring by modification of the lirsfc instruments to perfect one for practice, and of adopting tlie author's proposal of water as the dilating medium. The author, after referring to the value of elm-tents, which he first introduced to the profession ('Assoc. Med. Journ.,' May, 1855, p. 446), and which he thinks greatly superior to sponge, in those cases wliere a slow and moderate action is desired, as in mechanical dysmenorrhea and certain forms of sterility, remarks :—" There is no doubt tliat in the induction of premature labour by the injection of water between the membranes and the uterine wall, after the method of Schweighauser and Cohen, there is some liability of effecting an unfavorable change in the presentation of the child, as in two cases related by Dr. Priestley, and of inducing haemorrhage by partial separation of the placenta. It is also possible, as in two cases related by Dr. Simpson, that rupture of the uterus, from exoessive distension, may thus be pi'oduced." These objections do not, however, apply to the author's mode, since the extent of separation of the membranes, of dilatation of the cervix, and of distension of the uterus, by the enclosing sac which he has proposed, can be perfectly controlled.* Dr. Kobert Lee advised the induction of premature labour in a lady suffering from disease of the retina and albuminuria. This was not at once adopted, but after a short time a convulsion occurred, and it was then determined not to delay the operation. Amaurosis, albuminuria and csdema of the face were now present. The membranes were punctured, labour ensued, and a dead foetus of four months was expelled. After this the albumen gradually diminished and vision improved. The particulars of an analogous case are added. (' Med.- Chir. Trans.,' vol. xlvi, 1863.) Dr. Barnes records a case of induction of laljour by his method at the eighth month of pregnancy. Incessant vomiting had persisted from the commencement of pregnancy, and she had suffered from haematemesis and menorrhagia. Examination revealed a nodular induration of the cervix. Labour was induced and delivery of a living child effected in less than four hours. (' Lancet,' vol. i, 1863, p. 10.) Prof. Giordano, of Turin (' Omodei's Annali,' vol. clxxxii, p. 407), states that premature labour may be much more effectually induced by the application of the solid nitrate of silver to the cervix uteri than by any other mode. Having introduced it within the cervix, he imparts to it slight, but repeated, rotatory movements, in order to thoroughly cauterize most of the internal surface. "While most of the other plans proposed are difficult, inoperative, or even dangerous, this mode is easy of execution, prompt and complete in its results, and is followed by no ill consequences. A case is related in which cauterization was per- formed, on account of deformed pelvis, at 9 a.m. on one day, and the fcetus was expelled at 8 a.m. tbe following morning, and tlie placenta followed in an hour afterwards. * For a description of tlie caoutchouc bags introduced, nnd employed by Dr. Barnes, see ' Year-book' for 1862, p. 355.