349 GENERAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. tioa is generally short, rapid, and superficial, while expiration is pro- longed and intensified ; hence less oxygen is carried into the blood, and, at the same time, the evaporation from the lungs is increased, whereby cold is produced. Heat is also lost hf evaporation from the skin, especially as the women are only lightly covered. Trom observations made on forty parturient women, the following results were obtained:— The mercury always rose much more rapidly during the pains than during the intervals of the pains. The temperature reached its acme at the acme of the pain, and then rapidly fell. In every natural labour the temperature of the body is slightly raised—■ o"34° to o'4o° Fahr. It does not rise continually, and in proportion to the progress of labour, but the ordinary daily variations of temperature remain unafiected. The temperature is a little higher in the second than in the first period. The temperature was not afiected by early rupture of the membranes, nor by the labours being premature. Imme- diately after birth, taking the average of fifty cases, it was 105*05° Fahr. Compared with the temperature of the second period, it was slightly increased when labour occurred in the morning, and slightly diminished when labour occurred in the evening. After every normal labour the temperature rises about 1° during the first twelve hours, and only falls in the second twelve hours. In the case of abnormal pains it was found that, if any inflammation was present, the temperature increased continuously, even during the intervals between the pains, and that after birth it suddenly fell again considerably. Dr. Puech ('G-az. des Hop.,' April 21st, 1863) has communicated to the Academy of Sciences, Paris, a paper " On the Influence of Vicarious Menstruation on Ovulation," of which the following are the conclusions : 1. Vicarious menstruation, i. e. supplemental haemorrhage, is said to exist when, at the regular periods, a flow of blood takes place elsewhere than from the genital organs. 2. All parts of the body may be the seat of these ho3morrhages; nevertheless they occur more frequently in some localities than in others; thus, in Dr. Puech's cases, they were met with from the stomach in 32 cases, from the breast in 25 cases, from the lungs in 24 cases, from the nasal mucous membrane in 18 cases. 3. In all cases which have been carefully observed, antecedents either of hysteria or of an exaggerated nervous sensibility have been noticed. 4. In general, the menses ha,ve been absent (183 cases), but sometimes (in 15 cases), at the very time of the occurrence of the vicarious men- struation, a slight flow of blood has been noticed. 5. The genital organs are generally healthy, although they have sometimes been found to be abnormal. In 11 cases there was atresia, either congenital or accidental. ' 6. With the exception of these last-mentioned cases, absence of the menses does not imply sterility. Except in the case of grave disorders ovulation continues to take place, and the rupture of the Graafian vesicle corresponds with the period of vicarious menstruation. 7. Pregnancy, accordingly, is possible, and has been observed. It