ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 419 tiou of the pupils were the principal sj'mptoms. Tincture of opium was given; at first five minims, and afterwards two minims every hour. The child fell asleep about ten hours after the treatment was com- menced, and the case terminated favorably. The quantity of the poison taken could not be ascertained. Dr. H. Ploss (' Ztschrft. f. Med. Chir. u, Geb.,' vol. ii,Heft 4, p. 177) relates an instance in which three grains of the sulphate of atropine, mixed with two drachms of lard, were applied to a recently blistered surface. The ointment was soon removed; but death nevertheless occurred iu about two hours. Loret ('Jour, de Brux.,' xxxiv, p. 162; 'Schmidt,' Jan., 1863, p. 24) recommends that, instead of employing extracts of belladonna and of similar plants, the resinoid substances which they all contain should be sepai-ated and used. These spoil much less quickly than the ordi- nary extracts, and they are also much more uniform in the amoimt of alkaloid which they contain. M. Pi'octer (' Jour, de Phar. et de Chim.,' p. 384) obtains atropia in the following manner. A pound and a half of the root of the bella- donna are placed with alcohol in a displacement-apparatus till seven pints of tincture have passed through. An ounce of slaked lime is then added to this fluid, and the mixture is allowed to stand twenty-four hours, care being taken to agitate frequently. It is then rendered slightly acid by a sufilcient quantity of sulphuric acid; and after filtra- tion it is evaporated down to a weight of two and a half ounces. A fatty substance separates, and forms a crystalline pellicle on the sur- face. Three ounces of water are then added to it. It is thrown on a filter, and the residue is washed, till the liquid weighs altogether eight ounces. An ounce of chloroform is then shaken up with it, which ex- tracts the sulphate of atropine. Another ounce and a half of chloroform are added to this, with enough potash to make the liquid feebly alka- line. After shaking and allowing the chloroform to subside, it is sepa- rated, and the atropine crystallizes out by spontaneous evaporation. It must be redissolved in alcohol containing a little animal charcoal, and must then be recrystallized. By this process the amount of atropine obtained is about one third per cent, of the weight of the root of bella- donna employed. Dr. Shortt ('Madras Quart. Jour, of Med. Sci.,' April, 1863, p. 286) records three cases of poisoning by the fresh plant of the Datura stra- monium, which occurred in India. Two of these cases terminated fatally, one of them in about three and a half hours. In this case at least three ounces of the leaves appear to have been swallowed. Dr. McVeagh ('Dub. Quar. Jour.,' Ixxi, p. 126) gives an account of the use of the Dattira tatula in asthma. The bruised seeds and the dried herb are mixed in equal proportions and then smoked. It gives relief in cases where stramonium has failed; and it is more antispas- modic and less narcotic than that plant. It also rarely produces headache, or gives rise to dryness or constriction of the fauces. An extract (dose, gr. ss to gr. iss) and a tincture, made by digesting one part of the herb in eight parts of proof spirit (dose, Dl^xx to 5j) are alsa useful.