9 BLOOD. M liich exist between tlic fibrino-plastic substance given off by the free cells and tissues, and tlie fibrino-gcnic substance contained in the eoagulable fluids; and (2) the nature of the process by which the fibrm is produced. The mode of obtaining the fibrino-plastic sub- stance (globulin, or blood-casein) has been previously mentioned ; the fibrino-geuic substance Schmidt obtained in a similar way, by pre- cipitating coagulable fluids with CO,, or weak acetic acid, and dissolving the precipitate again in weak alkali. The properties of the two substances he finds, so far as he has carried his inquiries, to be the same; they difl'er only in the more feeble reactions of the fibrino- genic than of" the fibrino-plastic substance. Hence they are difficult to separate. The fibrino-genic substance shows a greater tendency to aggregate into masses. Both substances lose their specific power of forming fibrin by heat, without undergoing any other change. A mixture of an artificial solution of each of them seldom coagulates, but an artificial solution of either will coagulate with a natural solution of the other. The fibrino-plastic substance is very widely distributed through the body, being yielded by almost all the tissues; its origin is always from cells. With regard to the chemistry of the act of coagulation, Schmidt holds that it is the result of a true union of the fibrino-plastic and fibrino-genic substances with each other, forming an insoluble third substance, which is the ordinary fibrin. In this process alkali would be set free, and Schmidt has found the serum remaining after coagula- tion always richer in alkali than the fluid was before it took place. This alkali retains in solution a certain portion of the fibrino-plastic substance (the more soluble of the two), and thus a fluid in which coagulation has taken place will coagulate again on the addi- tion of a liquid containing the fibrino-genic substance. These two factors may unite in any proportion, the Mhole of the fibrino-genic substance being precipitated in everj"^ case of coagulation ; the propor- tions in which they are united determine the rapidity of the process and the firmness of the clot. Salts hinder coagulation by virtue of their attraction for one or both of these factors in the process. With regard to the origin of the fibrino-genic substance, Schmidt inclines to the opinion that it is fibrino-plastic substance which has undergone alteration, so that ultimately all the coagulable matter is derived from cells ; and thus in cases in which the blood is thinner (as in inflammation and in pregnancy), the increase of fibrin might be explained on the principle simply of an increased exosmose. On the question Avhy the blood does not coagulate within the vessels, Schmidt ascribes to the living tissues (difiering on this point from Lister) a power of resisting the union between the two factors of fibrine. Either there may be, after the withdrawal of the blood from the body, a continued exudation of fibrino-plastic substance from the cells, without an addition of alkali to maintain fluidity; or there may be during life an immediate change undergone by the fibrino-plastic substance on its emergence from the vessels, probably into the fibrino- genic substance, which change ceases when the influence of the tissues is withdrawn.