sn HEPORT ON SUKGRIIY. pushed both tlirough to the vulva. Tlie rolaxatiou of the bladder enabled me so far to depress the handle of the instrument against the abdomen, tliat its point came out between the orifices of the vagina and the meatus. The bladder was thus transfixed. I then withdrew the trocar, and passed a string through the canula. To the lower end of the string, I attached the point of a gum elastic catheter of the same size as the canula, and was thus enabled to pull both upwards together, and, as I withdrew the canula, to substitute the catheter for it in the double puncture. A cross piece of wood tied in front of the abdomen to the upper end of the catheter prevented it from slipping backward, and I found that when the wood was against the skin, about one-half of the catheter projected below the vulva; but of course no urine escaped. It only remained to make a lateral opening at about the middle of the catheter in the part nearest the vulva, through which the urine might flow when that part of the instrument was pulled far enough upward. This arrangement was found to be both convenient and safe. Each end of the catheter was secured against withdrawal: the upper end by the piece of wood, and the lower by the ivory ring of the catheter. The bladder being not simply punctured, but transfixed, its wall could slide up and down the catheter securely, but the instru- ment could not be thrust out of the cavity. And as to the evacuation of the urine, it was only necessary, after oiling the lower half of the catheter, to pull upon its upper end until the lateral hole made in its middle reached the vesical cavity; the urine would then flow out through the lower end . of the instrument. When the bladder was emptied, and the upper end of the catheter oiled, traction on the lower end of it brought the hole out of the bladder, and no urine could flow through it. " Sleep and freedom from pain followed the relief of the retention. In a couple of days the dusky hue of the countenance had disappeared, and a little appetite returned. Some tenderness and swelling came on before the end of a week in the anterior part of'the abdomen, a little to the right of the upper puncture, but both subsided in a few days. About a fortnight after the operation, the upper track became too large for the catheter, and the urine welled up continuously by the side of it. Some pus, mucus, and a little urine escaped when the catheter was pulled up for the purpose of emptying the bladder. Tearing there might be inflammation of the bladder from the constant pressure of the instrument, I had a new catheter introduced, and the bladder frequently washed out with tepid water. As the catheter had three openings—one above, one in tlie bladder, and one below—the cleansing was very conveniently done by means of a syringe. The secretion of pus and mucus speedily ceased, and the patient from that time continued at ease, so far as micturition is concerned, and she suffered from the original disease considerably less than in the early period of the case." The advantages of this method were, according to the author, that " it afforded easy exit for the urine ; it averted the liability of tiie tube to slip out of the bladder; it allowed of the syringing or irrigation of the bladder, which might become necessary; and it was wipable of