146 REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, cultntion be practised during the net of dying, while the finger is kept on the abdominal aorta, it is found that the heart's sounds can be heard for a few seconds after the respiration has entirely ceased. But during the whole of the last period of life, although the heart's sounds are heard, there is no arterial pulsation. In three large dogs the arterial pulsation ceased from one minute and a half to two minutes before the cessation of either sound. Richardson concludes from this that the cardiac action, attended as it is with pulselessness, is action developed feebly on one side only, viz., the right, and that death really begins at the heart, though the heart outlives the respiration. On exposure of the heart to the air, if the death has not exceeded half an hour, there occurs after a short pause active motion of the auricle and of the ventricle of the right side. This may continue for an hour if the temperature of the air surrounding is above 60° and not above 80". But the action is utterly futile as a propulsive action; it never injects the lungs; it is neither attended with sounds nor with evidences of valvular tension. If the pulmonary artery be laid open, there is no jet; if air be removed, the action ceases ; the motion is due, in fact, to a feeble oxidation of the blood in the parietes of the heart. The lungs are invariably free from congestion after pure death by chloroform. This is because the effect of the chloroform is primarily upon the heart through the blood. The right side, instead of affording a correct supply, transmits a current gradually decreasing in power and volume. To this current, however, no opposition is offered in the pulmonic circuit; it makes its way, therefore, to the left side, which propels it forward with a force steadily declining. Thus the circulation dies step by step, and with it the muscular power generally. At last a time arrives when the right side of the heart, feebly stimulated by the presence of blood, alone con- tracts, not with sufficient power to sustain its circuit or engorge the lungs, yet with sufficient power to convey to the observer that there is some remaining motion of the heart, even when the respiration has finished play. The brain and the glands are free from all serious organic injury ; they may be a little congested. After death by carbonic acid the effects are greatly different, in many instances, from those which follow chloroform. Death ensued more speedily and with less convulsion when the carbonic acid was pure. The blood is not altered in any essential respect; its colour is darkened ; coagulation ensues after removal from the body pretty soon, but is long retarded in the unopened vessels. In all cases the right side of the heart is surcharged with blood. If the death has been rapid, the left side is contracted and empty; if slow, it contains dark blood. On auscultation during the last moments of life, it is found that the respiration and the circulation fail almost simultaneously. On exposing the heart to the air after death, the reaction (which is always ou the right side) is very feeble, and of short duration, and sometimes does not occur at all. The lungs are scarcely congested at all if the death is quick ; if it is prolonged, they become intensely engorged, and very dark-. The appearances are much modified by attempts at resuscitation. Tli" brain is always congested after death from carbonic acid, and where the struggle is prolonged there is usually effusion of serum. Richanison has never found any extravasation. The pathology of all the aliove cn?'^ essential]v depends on an interruption of the natural process of the coi biuation of oxygen with blood ; and this whether the morbid phenomc