838 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC, his series of anatomical essays, written with especial reference to the requirementa of practical medicine. MM. Bernutz and Goupil publish the second volume of their ' Medical Clinicjue on the Diseases of Women.' In our own country, we notice the following: Dr. Graily Hewitt, on ' The Diseases of Women' (Loudon, Long- mans) . Dr. McClintock,' Clinical Memoirs on Diseases of Women' (Dublin, Eannin). Dr. Churchill, on' Diseases of Women,' fifth edition (Dublin, Fannin). Mr. Baker Brown, on ' Ovarian Dropsy ' (London, Churchill). Dr. Mackenzie, ' On the Pathology and Treatment of Phlegmasia Dolens ' (Loudon, Churchill). Dr. Savage, ' A Series of Plates, illustrating the Surgery of the Female Pelvic Organs' (London, Churchill). Dr. Tilt, • A Handbook of TJteriue Therapeutics,' and the third edition of the same author's work on ' Uterine and Ovarian Inflamma- tion' (London, Churchill). Dr. TJvedale West, ' Illustrations of Puerperal Diseases,' second edition (London, Churchill). Dr. Swayue,' Obstetric Aphorisms,' third edition (London, Churchill), and ' The Annual Address in Midwifery of the British Medical Association.' We may mention also the following pamphlets as specially worthy of notice : Dr. Tanner, on ' Cancer of the Female Sexual Organs' (London, Eenshaw). Dr. Tuckwell, on ' Effusions of Blood in the Neighbourhood of the Uterus ' (London, J. Parker). Dr. Chapman, on ' Functional Diseases of Womea' (London, Triibuer). 0 DISEASES OF CHILDEEK. In America, the third edition of Dr. Meig's work on ' Diseases of Children' is published. Prof. Jacobs publishes a course of lectures on ' Dentition and its Derangements' (New York, Bailli^re). Dr. Bodenheimer has written a practical treatise ' On the Etiology, Pathology, and Treatment of the Congenital Malformations of the Eectum and Anus ' (New York, Bailliere). ' In France, Prof. Bouchut has published the second edition of his work on ' Diseases of Infants,' and also a work on ' The Hygiene of the First Period of Childhood ' (Paris, BailliJire). Dr. Seux,' Eesearches on the Diseases of New-born Chddreu (Pans, Bailliere). In Germany, Dr. Stiebel publishes a-treatise on 'Eachitis' (Er- langen). A treatise by Dr. Widerhofer on the 'Diseases of the Umbilicus in New-born Children' (Vienna, Aust). Dr. Laiig, a pamphlet on the ' Acute Catarrh of the Intestinal Tract in Infants (Schaffhausen, Brodtraann).