HEPOllT OX PHYSIOLOGY. ot its ouvelope, the external contour of Avhieli is unaflected by tlieni. Jures])ect to the structure of the Btriutcd muscular fibre, he thinks there is no sufBcieut evidence to pro\e that it consists of different substances, arranged alternately. A spiral arrangement, or even the effect of elasticity, supposing an habitual tension, might account for the appearances. Brucke, ou the other hand, returns to his argument (see ' Year- book,' 1862), that the phenomena observed in the saliva-corpuscles are inconsistent Avith tlie ordinary cell doctrine, and that even if the motions seen within the corpuscles be merely of the same kind as the ordinary molecular movements of inorganic particles, they yet take place in such a Avay as to prove the existence -within the corpuscles of segments or partitions. But, in fact, these movements appear to be determined by the life of the corpuscle, and cease with it; Avhile the motions produced in different cells, on adding salt, urea, or acids, exhibit not only distinctions between them, but in some cases forms which a mere membrane surrounding a fluid could not assume ; as, for example, two, three, or more portions, separated by constrictions, and resembling a cell about to multiply by budding or segmentation. On subjecting the salivary corpuscles to a magneto-electric stream, Briicke observed -what he considered to be a rupture of the cell at a definite point, result- ing from its own contraction, as occurs in some molluscs. EoUet also, from observations on the mode of aggregation of the blood-corpuscles, and from various experiments on the efl'ect produced upon the blood by freezing, by the electric discharge, and by the with- drawal of its gases, comes to the following conclusions':—(i) That the idea of the cell, in Schwann and Schleiden's sense, is not applicable to the blood-corpuscles, (a) These bodies consist, as regards their chief mass, of a weak, elastic, extensile substance. (3) We can distinguish in them at least two elements :—the crystallizable substance, hiemato- giobulin, and a peculiar stroma. (4) Both are held together in a way not Icnown to ns. (5) By external influences, they can be separated from each other. (6) To these separating influences belong, besides the known chemical agents, also a high degree of cold (freezing), the electric discharge, and the pumping out of its gases from the blood. (7) After the division, either both portions dissolve in the unaltered serum, or a portion of the stroma remains undissolved. (8) lIa;niato- globulin crystallizes, so far as is yet known, in two systems—the rhombic, and the hexagonal. (9) The crystals are pleochromatic. (10) The formation of crystals is increased by the dilution of the blood with water ; but we may also observe an abundant formation of ci'ystals in unaltered serum, when the composition of the corpuscles is modified by very various influences, as freezing, electrizing, <fcc. On the other hand, the observations of Dr. Eoberts, on the eflects of a solution of magenta or of tannin on the blood-corpuscles, have led him to very difterent results. He considers that the appearances pre- sented are best explicable on the supposition that each corpuscle is