DISLOCATION OF THE IIUMEUUS. 231 little shortened; the head appeared to be located on the edge of the os ilium. At three different times attempts at reduction had been already made, both with extension and flexion to an acute angle. When chloro- form had been administered, the thigh was flexed to rather more than a right angle, adducted and rotated outwards; but although the head of the femur rose considerably during adduction, it would not slip in during rotation outwards, but returned to its abnormal position. An assistant now placed his forearm under the knee, the thigh was again flexed and strongly adducted, the assistant somewhat raised the limb, and theu reduction was at once effected by rotation outwards. The author also relates a case, in which repeated attempts had been made to reduce a dislocation of the shoulder without success. The patient was an old, but athletic countryman, the head was placed some- what to the inner side of the coracoid process. The author first tried extension both in the horizontal position and with the arm carried vertically upwards; as these failed, he had the arm raised to a hori- zontal position by an assistant, he himself placed his left hand, as a fulcrum, on the back of the upper arm just below the shoulder, seized with his right hand the patient's forearm and carried it forcibly back- wards ; he then rotated rapidly inwards, and the dislocation was reduced without the least difficulty. Having examined the influence of the capsule in regard to reduction, the author proceeded to trace its connection with the position of the luxated limb. In respect to luxations of the femux", it is already known that the muscles which have become tense owing to change in position, exercise no influence in determining the position of the thigh on the pelvis. In dislocation backwards, the author found the quadratus, gemeUi, obturator, pyriformis, either very tense, or ruptured, whilst in front only the tensor vaginfe femoris and the rectus appeared to be stretched; he divided all these muscles without in the least chxinging the degree of flexion, adduction, or rotation j the position of the limb is dBtermined by the capsule. The same is the case in respect to disloca- tion on to the pubis; section of the psoas-iliacus does not influence the position. It appeared probable that in the shoulder the muscles would, at all events, modify the position; but in the dislocation downwards, and forwards, although part of the deltoid, the supra- and infra-spinatua were tense, yet their division did not diminish the abduction of the arm. The author concludes his paper with the relation of a curious case of dislocation of the shoulder. A porter, carrying a heavy load on his left shoulder down some steps, stumbled and fell. Owing to violent pain in his arm, he at once hastened to the Clinic. He arrived there with the left upper arm raised upwards by the side of the head, on which the fore arm rested, whilst he held with his right hand the left one near the right ear. The arm could be readily lowered, and as it approached the chest, the symptoms of a luxation downAvards became distinct; the head was in the axilla just at the lower border of the glenoid cavity. The patient almost immediately begged the bystanders to let his arm alone; he then with a violent ettbrt slung it up to its former position. Ho was induced to lower it himself, but the pain was so violent thjit in about a mjnute he throw it up again. To allow such