320 IIKPOJIT OiV SOllfiERY. I i-cmovecl his foot at the ankle-joint; he quickly made a good re- covery. " Wlien this man came under treatment I had determined that an- cliylosis of the joint was the termination to be sought for in tliis disease, when the mischief had advanced to suppuration ; and that, in the ma- jority of oases, this result was hindered or prevented by the dilGculties in the way of the escape of tlie products of inllammation, and of the dvhris of the brolcen-dowu tissues. I thought that, if I gave free exit to those products, and, in addition, a new surface to the bones, I miglit possibly succeed in bringing about tliis desirable result. In the present instance I now believe that too much was attempted; it would have been better merely to have made free openings into the articulation, for the escape of morbid products, leaving to nature the preparation of the bony surfaces, especially as they were smoothed with so much difSculty." In one case the author removed both the astragalus and the os calcis ; and though the patient was a long time in recovering, she ultimately did get well, with a useful and shapely foot. " I received a letter of thanks from her last November, telling me how well able she was to perform her houseliold duties. Before preparing this communication a friend kindly saw her for me, and reported very favourably of her con- dition. This is only the second recorded case in which both these bones have been removed." " Treatment.—" i. Whilst the joint (and by the term joint is meant, not only the two synovial sacs between the bones, but also t!;e inter- osseous ligament) is simply irritated or inflamed, compel perfect rest through a long period of time (say months), and the occasional applica- tion of leeches or warm soothing applications; and when the recovery is sufficiently advanced to allow the patient to leave the bed, insist upou the foot being relieved from the weight of the body for many weeks or months, as by the use of a wooden leg, or of crutches. This plan is to be used in every case. " 2. When there is evidence of the presence of pus in the articula- tion, without any external opening, or when an external opening exists leading down to the joint or bai'e bone, but not aftording a free exit to the discharge, then open the joint by as free incisions as possible, in hope that, by relieving the parts from all irritation, they may recover. " 3. When the disease has made still fnrtlier progres.s, and the bones become so involved as to render it unlikely that the last plan would answer, or after the failure of that treatment, then I would very strongly advocate the propriety of removing the os calcis ; thus giving the under surface of the astragalus the best chance of recovery, and preserving to the patient a most useful and shapely foot. " 4. When both bones are apparently immediately aftected, I would advise their removal, as also that of the projecting malleoli of the ankle- joint. So fiir as regards the disease, this proceeding is as completely eliminative as amputation at the ankle-joint itself, but has the great ad- vantage of preserving a very useful, and assuredly a more sightly, extremity than the stump of an amputation. "5. When, from the long-continuance of the disease, many of the