FOOD. 465 tible, and give it a blackish colour. Tiiey are said to give rise to headaclie and giddiness, but of tliis Pellischek could not convince hira- seU". Tiiose of the Raphanus Baplianistrum are said to produce rapliania. Among fungi, the following forms are noticed :—Tiie rust {jRtibido or Puccinia rjraminis) gets on to the grain only accidentally, as during thrashing. It is recognised by its transparent cylindrical spores, which are long and pedunculated. If affects the colour of the flour which contains it, but is said not to be injurious to animals. The smut (caries or sitophila) gives a bluish colour to bread, making it also sticky and disagreeable to the taste. It is stated to produce ill effects, but of what kind is not mentioned. The affected grains may be separated from the healthy by sifting, or by winnowing, or by the action of water, for the diseased grains float. The Uredo secjetmi rarely occurs in flour, but it clings to the straw, and is prejudicial to cattle. Living creatures occur only in flour which is quite unfit for use. They are the Acarus farinalis (which generally indicates that; the seeds of some leguminous plants have been mixed with the grain), the Asopia farinalis, the Vibriones Tritici. Such flour is usually damp and musty, and has been kept for a long time in a damp place ; it has a bitter, disagreeable taste, and is injurious to liealth if used for food, and especially when it is whitish or reddish, and has already passed into a state of fermentative decomposition. The adulteration of flour with inorganic substances is besf; detected, as advised by Rodtenbacher, by shaking up the suspected specimen with chloroform. All mineral substances sink to the bottom when the fluid is allowed to stand, while the flour floats on the surface. M. Commaille ('Gaz. Hebd.,' vol. x, 1863, p. 4) investigated the nature of a thick layer of a substance which had a red colour, and was found covering the surface of some bread. Hg found it to consist of three fungi—the Oidium aurantiacum, the Penicillum sitopJiilium, and (probably) the P. roseum. He succeeded in transferring the fungi from the bread on which they were found to some which was unaflected, and also to starch, milk, and gelatine. Similar red fungi had been observed in Paris in 1842, and, to prevent their occurrence, it is recommended that some salt should be used in making the bread, and that the quantity of water employed should be diminished. Suspected flour should also be mixed with flour of good quality, and should not be used alone. MM. Manoury and Salmon ('Ann. d'Hyg./ 1863, p. 215) have re- cently traced an epidemic of colic in certain communes of France to the contamination of the flour used in the district with lead. This metal was found in large quantity in the depressions on the surface of the millstones in one particular mill. Cider.—M. Iloussard ('Bull, de I'Acad. de Med.,' xxviii, 1862) dr.aws attention to a disorder produced by the excessive use of this beverage. The symptoms are those of ordinary colic; there is little fever; the abdo- men is slightly tender, but not hard, nor much distended. This affection is caused especially by drinking old cider, which has been kept two or three years, and contains more malic and acetic acids than fresh c;der. Saline purgatives and castor oil are the best remedies. Should their action be prevented by incessant vomiting, castor oil is to be sub- 30