EEPORT ON PIUCTICAL MEDICINE. 100 out the dumtion of the paralysis. As the ailment progresses, the anaes- thesia rentiers the sense of touch so imperfect, that both in endeavouring to walk and to use the hands the patient is compelled to direct his move- ments by the eye. The sense of numbness is pretty constantly present in these cases, but the formication is chiefly, perhaps only, felt when efforts are made to move the aflected limbs. If the paralysis continue for any length of time, the muscles concerned become flabby and sometimes very much emaciated, and their strength becomes so much impaired that patients who can move the affected limbs freely in bed often walk with much difficulty, or are even unable to stand, their limbs bending under them in the effort, so that, unless supported, they fall to the ground. Very often this loss of power and numbness are accompanied by increased sensibility of particular parts of the affected limbs. There is tenderness of the soles of the feet, of the cilves of the legs, or of the fleshy parts of the arms; besides this, general tenderness, pressure of the instep between the finger and thumb often causes acute pain, with convulsive starting of the leg and foot; and pressure along the large nerves of the arm and thigh, especially the median and sciatic nerves, is attended by pain or acute tenderness. In one case there was very considerable pain on percussion over the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, and also tenderness on pressure by the sides of the vertebrae from the lower dorsal region downwards. In the severest cases of diphtherial paralysis and anaesthesia a sense of tight- ness is often experienced, as if the parts were firmly bandaged. This does not usually occur till the patient is beginning to mend, and is then often very troublesome, extending sometimes to the arms, legs, and abdomen. Other and more grave nerve affections occasionally follow diphtheria, and may prove fatal, as cardiac paralysis or persistent irritability of the stomach. Rest in bed, generous diet, and tonics, constitute the chief part of the treatment. Strychnia has proved very valuable. Waters, A. T. H., M.D.—On a remarkable Case of Lesion of the Medulla Oblongata, with remarks. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlvi, p. 115. A man, ret. 23, previously in perfect health, was struck on the left side of the face by a capstan bar, and stunned, but soon recovered. The next day he walked into the hospital with the aid of a man supporting him on each side. He was then perfectly conscious, and answered questions rationally and distinctly, but his articulation was not quite perfect. He complained of slight dizziness of the head, and of a slight numbness of the right side of the face and of the right arm and leg. He was unable to swallow, and had constant hiccough; the face was dusky, the breathing quiet, and the pulse 100, and regular. The tongue was protruded straight, but the uvula deviated to the left. There was partial loss of power of the right side of the face and of the right arm and leg. Both these limbs, however, could be readily raised, but not so easily as those of the opposite side. The pupils were a little dilated, they acted irregularly, and the eyeballs were constantly oscillating. The right side of the face, the right arm, and the right leg, were sensibly of higher temperature than the same parts on the opposite side. Sensation was good on both sides. Beef tea introdviced into the stomach was immediately rejected. He died