■HEPORT ON aiidwifehy, etc. 394 and induced. (2) In sterility, where there has been more or less obliquity of the uterus with a small external os. (3) In endometritis, where accumulation of inuco-pus takes place in the uterine cavity. '(4) In fibroid diseases of the uterus accompanied with great pain. (5) In suspected and proved cases of intra-uterine polypus, and discharges of coagula. PEEGKANCT. Dr. Curtis, after carefully examining the 'evidence, records a case of pregnancy in a girl under ten years of age, who was delivered of a full- grown male child, weighing eight pounds, when slie was ten years, eight mouths, and seven days old. The reputed father of the child is said to be about fifteen years of age. The mother menstruated once or twice before conception, was tolerably healthy during gestation, and had rather a lingering but quite natural labour. ' Boston Med. and Surg. Journal,' Feb. 19, 1863. The earliest age at which pregnancy is known to have occurred in this country, is eleven years, recorded by Mr. Eoberton, of Manchester. As an example of late pregnancy, Mr. H. Bloxam records a case of delivery in a primipara, aged fifty-two. * Lancet,' vol, ii, 1863, p. 380. ■DISEASES OE THE VAGIKA. Tumours springing from the walla of the vagina are rare.—Dr. M'Clintock, 'Diseases of Women,' p. 196. In structure they are either {a) fibrous, or (h) cystic. The former may be either peduncu- lated or non-pedunculated ; are generally small, and arise in the sub- mucous cellular tissue, the muscular coat of tbe vagina, or in the cellular network external to it; the larger growths have usually a deeper origin. Kiwisch asserts that the majority of the rounded fibroids connected with the vagina are primarily developed in the uterus, but this is only true of some cases where fibrous tumours of the uterus co-exist witli similar growths in the vagina. Dr. M'Clintock relates 3 interesting cases. In 2 of these, the tumours,—about the size of a hen's egg,—was first noticed near the end of pregnancy, both were pedunculated, and attached to tlie posterior wall of the vagina. The third case much resembled a procideut uterus. In all 3 cases extirpation was performed with success. (6) Cystic tumoui's of the vagina are even more rare than the fibrous. They probably arise, in many cases, from obstructed mucous follicles as Huguier has shown. Some of these vaginal cysts contain a clear glazy fluid like mucus, and others a limpid straw-coloured serum. These vaginal tumours are generally unattended by any symptoms; in many cases they have not been discovered or suspected till after labour has set in. Huguier supposes that the chauges and lesions of pregnancy and parturition most frequently produces them ; since out of 13 cases, in 12 tlie disease had developed itself during gestation or after delivery. The radical cure of these tumours may be eff'ected by simple puncture, excision with the scissors or knife, or by tapping and the subsequent application of nitrate of silver or iodine,