llEPOUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 16 dent of pressure on the peritoneal Burface of the diiipliragni, and would take place even wlicn it had to overcome the weiglit of a tliin layer of iluid ; that it took place equally when all the veins around the lerniiua- tion of the thoracic duct were tied, and wlien all traction on the part of the lungs was cut oil". The process, therefore, is due fundamentally, not to any agency external to the lymphatic system, but to the relation of the lyniphalic vessels and their contents fo the absorbed fluid. It cannot, however, be classed either with the phenomena of endosmose or those of capillary attraction, and resembles most nearly tlic phenomena of sub- stitution of lluids in capillary tubes discussed by Briicke. If pressure is not the agent of absorption in this case, it is probably not concerned, as suggested, in absorption within the intestinal villi. Tomsa affirms that the lymphatic system originates in a series of lacuntB in the connective tissue, the walls of which are formed only by this tissue, and which communicate with the perfectly formed lymphatic vessels, either directly or through a system of lymph ' tubes,' which are small canals without proper walls, and bounded only by denser layers of the connective tissue. These maybe sepai*ated by pressure of fluid, and the lymph-tubes then lose themselves in the lacun;e. The lacuna) are not formed from cells, but are simply the interspaces left in the formation of the bundles and fibrils of the connective tissue. The secretion of lymph is determined by the difference of pressure within and without the blood-vessels, and is radically a process of filtration, with the characters of which it agrees. It can be produced in its nor- mal characters after death. Increased pressure causes the exudation of more organic constituents ; diminished pressure, of fewer, but with an increase in the quantity of salts. The expanded roots of the lymph- vessels are nutritive reservoirs, rather than mere absorbents; they are media between the supplying capillaries and the consuming and elabor- ating cells. The lacunje surround the capillaries so as to form a kind of partitioned sheath around them. Tomsa thinks these facts have a bearing on the idea that should be entertained of nutrition and of in- flammation, and that Virchow's doctrine, which ascribes to the cell all the active influence in these processes, is too exclusive. The blood and the fluid eff"used from it into the lympb-lacunte, should rather be i-cgarded as the starting-point, and from the latter may come the influences which determine the activity of the cells. In the chain of nutrition, Tomsa places first the blood and lymph-corpuscles, then the cells of the parenchyma, and again concludes with the lymph-corpuscles. The cells exercise a secondary influence upon the contents of the lymph- lacunje, and may, e. g., produce in them an increase of fibrinogenous material, which, however, only becomes true fibrin by entering the vessels and coming into contact with the blood-corpuscles. An increased pressure within the capillaries, continued imtil the ])henomena of sfasis result, has for consequence the filling of the lymph-lacuna) with contents entirely diflering from the ordinary lymph. The experiments were made on the testicle of the dog, by constriction of the veins. The interspaces of the connective tissue became distended M ith fluid, which in some cases excited new cell formation; but only when the blood