ALKALIES AND ALKALINE EAETHS. 407 pai'ts, in fiict, presented in every respect a more advanced stage of the affection than the yellow. In them the line fat-granules had coalesced into masses, and even into globules of fat, and tlie walls of the hepatic cells liad disappeared. This change commenced in the periphery, and passed gradually towards the centre of the lobule; and the wasted condition which occurs in the later stages of the disease was shown by the surface of the liver being depressed opposite the parts which were red. The blood in this case was dark, and coagulated imperfectly after death. The corpuscles were normal in appearance. The urine, though slightly acid, deposited crystals of ammonio-phosphate of magnesia. Maukopif remarks that the hepatic affection produced by phosphorus ought not to be called a fatty disease, but an acute, diffused, parenchymatous in- flammation. It exactly resembles the acute yellow atrophy; and since the enlarged spleen, the fatty heart, the ecchymoses in the areolar tissue of various parts, and the cerebral symptoms which precede death, ocdu* in both conditions, he suggests that the disease of the Uver only is produced by the poison, and that the affections of other parts are secondary. In one of his cases albumen was not present in the urine till two days after the jaundice and hepatic affection had been observed, and this fact supports Maukopff's opinion. ALKALIES AND ALKALIITE EAETDS. Alkaline oarhonates.—Mauricet (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, No. ,3, p. 11) has made an experimental investigation into the action of alkalies upon animals, and has arrived at the following conclusions. The tolerance of alkalies depends on their elimination by the kidneys, the virine being rendered alkaline. The bicarbonate of soda is much more slowly excreted than the bicarbonate of potass, and therefore its administra- tion cannot be borne for so long a time. It appears in the urine unchanged, whereas the potass salt was once found in a small quantity of urine converted into chloride of potassium. The ingestion of either of these salts always leads, in animals, to the presence of carbonate or bicarbonate of ammonia in the urine. When carbonate of ammonia is given to animals, its elimination is very rapid. Grreat increase of the appetite is among the effects of its administration in large doses. It was not found to produce any excite- ment nor any nervous affection, nor disorder of the digestive tract. It was not detected in the urine, nor did the most delicate tests show its presence in the air expired. The administration of alkalies did not appear to diminish the quan- tity of the solid constituents of the blood, nor the amount of urea in the urine; the animals became somewhat thin, but this was probably due to their taking less food in consequence of its being mixed with the salts. Dr. Wilks and Dr. Taylor ('Guy's H. Eep.,' vol. ix, 1863, p. 173) relate a case in wliich a drachm and a half of nitrate of potass was administered daily in three doses during thirty-three days. The urine was increased in quantity under this treatment, sixty-four ounces beinw passed in one day. The amount of potass contained in it was more