OCCUPATIONS. 457 too imperfect to be a safe guide in this question. According to tliis register, it appears that the total mortality in Scotland is lower than in any other kingdom in Europe, being only i in 48 annually. OCCUPATIOlfS. MM. Be'court and Chevallier ('Ann. d'llyg.,' July, 1863, p. 83) draw attention to the injurious effects produced in the workmen engaged in the manufacture of the bichromate of potass. Information obtained from an establishment at Rixheim shows that the preparation of the neutral chro- mate does not affect the health of the men employed. But during the conversion of the chromate into the bichromate, wliich is effected by the addition of an acid at a boiling temperature, the vapour carries off a number of fine particles, which are dispersed through the chamber, and are easily seen in a beam of sunlight. They have been proved to consist of the bichromate of potass. Tiiey enter the mouth, and give rise to a bitter metallic taste; but, as the fluids in that cavity are constantly being discharged and renewed, no ill effects are produced. Very different is the result when the molecules of the salt enter the nose with the inspired air. They then become dissolved in the fluid which covers the nasal mucous membrane, and cause extreme irritation, with increased secretion of the tears and incessant sneezing. This affection becomes established about five or six days after the workman is first exposed to the action of the salt. Soon portions of the mucous membrane covering the septum became detached and are found in the handkerchief, and after six or eight days the bony septum itself becomes thin, and at last is destroyed. An aperture results, wliich in one instance was one centimetre broad by one and a half centrimetre high. As soon as this has occurred, all the symptoms cease. The workman only knows that his septum is gone from the fact that .all his distress is at an end. The sense of smell is un- affected. M. Clouet, the director of the manufactory at Havre, thought it rather more acute in his own case than it was before. All persons exposed to the action of the particles of the salt are thus affected. Two children of M. Clouet have already lost the septum nasi. There is a remarkable exception in the case of those who take snuff; either this substance pro- tects the mucous membrane from the contact of the bichromate of potass, or the increased secretion from the mucous membrane prevents its injurious effects, for these workmen altogether escape this affection. When applied to the uninjured skin, even concentrated solutions of the bichromate of potass pi-oduce no evil effects. The hand may with im- punity be left in contact with the salt for a whole day. But if there be the smallest wound, such, for instance, as the prick of a pin, a smarting pain is felt when such a solution is allowed to touch the skin; and if its application to the sore is continued for a few minute.«, it acts as a caustic, setting up violent inflammation, and destroying all the tissues, down even to the bone. The pain is found to be much more severe in the cold weather of winter than in warm seasons of the year. These effects occur most frequently in the hands, and the observation of them in a manufac- tory near Paris first led to the inquiry as to the injurious operation of this salt. The treatment of these sores, which experience shows to be the most