898 REPOUT on MIDWIFEEY, ETC. tinue long, will reduce the patient to a state of great marasmus, and from this, recoveiy would scarcely seem possible. Among the more special symptoms—which of necessity vary with the seat of the tumour,—the author mentions as an unfavorable symptom, inability to extend the thigh of the affected side, and agrees with Churchill, that where this symptom is present, the cellular tissue cover- ing the psoas or iliacus internus muscle, or the parts lying beneath Poupart'a ligament are affected. _ Suppuration being established, the matter may point in different situations. Of 70 cases seen by the author, 37 ended in suppuration, with discharge of pus; 24 of these burst or were opened externally; viz., 20 in the iliac region, 2 above the pubes, i in the inguinal region, and I beside the anus ; 6 wei'e discharged per vaginam, 5 by the anus, and 2 burst in the bladder. The author has never known a puerperal pelvic abscess burst into the peritoneum. " The most rapid and satis- factory cases were those in which the matter discharged itself, in the iliac or supra-pubic regions. Enoi'mous purulent cysts were thus obli- terated within ten days after the puncture ; while in other cases, where the abscess was smaller, three or four days sufficed to bring about a similar result." On this point, however, the author's opinion is con- trary to that held by other writers, especially M. Becquerel. In the only two fatal cases seen by the author, death occurred from dysentery following the bursting of the abscess internally into the bowel. Thirteen cases are related, as illustrating the principal points of im- portance in the disease, and the author concludes the memoir with remarlis on the treatment. Absolute rest, in the physiological sense of the word, is strongly insisted upon in all stages of the disease, " without which all other treatment will prove nugatory. These cases almost always issue in the recovery of the patient; but they extend over a long period,—from three to four months being their average duration. Until resolution has taken place, or until the tumoin'has become chronic, the patient should observe the recumbent position." In the acute and sul- acute stages the local abstraction of blood by leeches to the seat of pain, is strongly recommended, with warm fomentations, light diet, and opiates, if necessary; a warm iiip bath in the evening, the greatest care being taken in moving tlie patient, and if she have been recently deli- vered, the vagina should be syringed twace a day with warm water. In the subacute stage, small doses of the bichloride of mercury are sometimes useful, with the addition of the muriate of morphia, if there be any tendency to diarrhoea, but the author has seen little benefit derived from the use of the iodide or bromide of potassium. When all fever and pain have subsided, and the tumour only remains, the Ung, Plumbi lodidi or the Ung. Hydrarg. maybe used, but should be at once suspended if any pain be caused by their employment. The treatment must be perseveringly continued for some time, and great prudence must be used in allowing the patient to get up. "This should not be attempted till all signs of inflammatory action in the tumour have completely disappeared." In the chronic stage, quinine, iodide of iron, and cod-liver oil are the remedies most relied on by the author. A gene- rous diet, with a moderate amount of stimulants, may be allowed; but