EESPIUATOUY SYSTEM. 155 recorded by Tiirck which had lasted nearly five years, and where the patient was amenorrhoeal and suffered from dyspnoea venesection to i lb. procured speedy recovery. (2) General paralysis of the constrictors.—In this case not only the phonic, but also the other movements of the glottis, are more or less abolished. The paralysis is almost always bilateral. (3) Permanent unilateral contraction of the glottis is where one vocal cord approaches more or less closely to the median line, while the apex of the arytenoid of the same side appears very prominent, and often projects beyond the median line. In phonation and coughing the vocal cord remains almost immovable, the voice is weakened, the cough not strongly marked. Here the crico-arytenoid post, of the corresponding side is para- lysed, and generally also some fasciculi of the contractors. Rheumatism, catarrh, and cancer of the air-tubes are mentioned as the causes of this affection. The symptoms of new growths in the larynx are—(i) Hoarse- ness, which depends more on the situation of the tumour than on its size. Small growths may produce it if they interfere with the action of the vocal cords ; large ones may not, if they leave these important parts free. (2) Cough, which is also very dependent on the seat of the growth ; it is generally intermittent and convulsive. (3) Byspnosa, which also is seldom continuous, and which is most experienced in in- or ex-piration, according as the obstruction is seated above or below the glottis; peculiar respiratory murmurs are in some cases to be heard. (4) Uneasy sensa- tions in the neck, specially in the larynx, as if mucus was sticking at some part; sometimes these are the sole indications. The importance of de- tecting these morbid formations is very apparent, from the circumstance that such patients have been regarded as syphilitic or phthisical, and in consequence have undergone a great variety of useless treatment, with much trouble, pain, and expense. On the epiglottis the new growths are almost always situated, either on its base or on its postero-inferior surface. The best means of getting a view of the posterior surface of the epiglottis with the aryteno-epiglottic ligaments and vocal cords is to get the patient to utter a high falsetto note. New growths are sometimes developed in the ventricles, and push the superior vocal cord upwards, and the lower down- wards. Until they protrude from the orifice they are, of course, in- visible. Lewin cites 33 cases of new growths situated on the inferior vocal cords; of which 8 occupied both, 7 the left, 16 the right cord. As to their nature, 18 were polypi, 5 epithelial growths, 3 fibro-plastic tumours, 3 cancroid, i encephaloid, i a syphilitic excrescence. The frequent occurrence of growths in this situation is accounted for, accord- ing to Lewin, by the peculiar combination in this part of pavement epi- thelium with elastic and muscular tissue. On the false vocal cords growths are more rare, as well as on the arytenoid cartilages. On the anterior wall of the larynx growths occur much more frequently than on the posterior, which is a favorite seat of ulcers. In the lower parts of the larynx and in the trachea growths of various sorts are not uncommon. The rest of the report is chiefly taken up with a description of the various instruments and proceedings employed for the removal of growths from the larynx, and with the records of numerous cases. For some notice of these ». Year-book for 1863, p. 119. A notice of some cases examined rhinoscopically closes the report.