INVAGINATIONS. 295 tlie former amount to 135 cases; the latter, in wliich only one wall is invaginated, are extremely rare (3 cases). Out of the 135 cases the age is mentioned in 100 ; there were 37 children (31 under four years, 6 from four to ten years) and 63 adults (49 men, 14 women); from which it results that invagination is relatively most frequent during the first four years of life. In 61 cases the commencement of the disease is stated; in 34 of which 27 were young children, the afiection suddenly occurred whilst the general health was good; in 27 of which only 4 were children, it was preceded by other symptoms, as pain, constipation, prolapsus of the rectum. a. Simple descending invaginations.—9a cases, or 36 in which only the small intestine, 25 in which, only the large intestine, and 31 in which both, were invaginated. It must be noted, however, that in aU the children, except four, either the large intestine alone or both large and small intestine formed the intussusception. The invagination was seated in— The rectum, aucl projecting through the anua . . .11 times. „ rectum alone ........ 6 „ sigmoid, flexure and rectum .11,, ,, sigmoid flexure alone . 6 ., „ descending colon ........ 7 „ „ transverse , . • 7 « „ ascending , 9 „ Both tlie transverse and descending colon . . . . 3 u The end of the descending colon and heginuiug of the sigmoid flexure 2 „ The transverse, the descending colon, and the reetnm . i „ Tlie ascending and the transverse colon . . . . 1 „ 64 The left portion of the large intestine contained the intussusception 41 times, the transverse portion only 7 times, and the right portion 9 times; the tmnour must, accordingly, be especially looked for in the left portion of the large intestine. The autlior finds that gangrene, perforation, and rupture, do not occur in the simple intussusception of adults till the strangulation has lasted at least twelve days, and some- times not for one to two months. b. Ascending intussusceptions (16 cases) always appear as a com- plication of some other afiection. The author has also collected 14 cases in which an intussusception appeared as a complication of such diseases as polypus or cancer of the rectum ; 8 cases in which an intussusception was again invaginated, so as to be composed of five cylinders, and i case in which it Avas composed of seven cylinders ; 65 cases in which the invaginated portion of bowel was eliminated (in 7 of these, contraction of the bowels followed). Of the whole 135 cases, 97 died and 38 recovered from the immediate effects of the strangulation; of the latter, however, 9 died, cither dii-ectly in consequence of the elimination of the eschar or from the morbid pondition of the intestine; the further course of most of the otlier cases is unlcnown. Diagnosis.—A tumour always exists, and is usually seated in the