18 llEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. into tho veins. His conclusions are—(i) The retardation of the pulse in jaundice arises irom the presence of bile in the blood. (2) The bile owes this property to the glycocholato and taurociiolate, that is, to the chelate of soda, which it contains. (3) The retardation is effected by a specific paralysing action of the bile-salts upon the ganglionic system of the heart. (4) How the bile-salts alfect the ganglia is undeter- mined. (5) The paralysing influence of the cliolate of soda ujjon the motion of the heart is exhibited also upon the activity of the lymphatic hearts. (6) With the retardation of the pulse after injection of the bile-salts a notable diminution of temperature is to be observed (? collapse). (7) Tlie use of bile as a febrifuge may therefore be sug- gested. (8) Tlie bile-acids can be taken up by the kidneys; under normal relations, however, they are not taicen up, or in very small quantity. (9) The decomposition of the bile-acids in the blood ia more probable than their elimination. (10) The vagus nerves have a compensatory action in respect to the various states of excitement of the ganglia of the heart. (The retardation of the pulse waa diminished by their section.) Yll. CIECULATIOK AKD EESPIEATIO>-. V. Bezold, a.—On a 2\ew Motor Nervous Sptem of tlie Heart. Berlin Med. Central Zeitung, No. 67. Wiener Med. Wochenschrift, Dec. 20th, 1862. GoLTz, P.—The Vagus Nerve and tlie Heart. Virchow's Arehiv, vol. xxvi, p. I. Eeiset, J.—Chemical Researches on the Bespiration of the Animals of a Farm. Comptes Eendus, April 20th, 1863, p. 740. Sachs, J.—A Contribution to the Question as to the I'laee of Formation of Carlonic Acid in the Organism. Eeichert und Du Bois Eey- mond's Arehiv, 1863, No. 3, p. 345. Bezold has previously confirmed the statement, that in the sym- pathetic nerve of the neck fibres are contained, by the irritation of ■wbicb quickening of the heart's motion and an increase of the blood- pressure in the arteries are produced within certain limits. In the course of these researches he has found a new path taken by the motor nerves of the heart, which establishes a still more important and inti- mate connection of the heart with the cerebro-spinal system than either the sympathetic or the pneumogastrics. The main results of the experiments carried out on rabbits com- pletely paralysed by weak doses of woorara are the following:—(i) In animals in which the vagi and the sympathetic in the neck are divided, irritation of the medulla oblongata produces a very considerable ac- celeration of the pulse, and a great increase of the arterial pressure—in many cases to more than double. (2) On section of the spinal cord in any spot above the seventh cervical vertebra there at once appear all the indications of a very diminished action of the heart; sinking of tho pressure in the carotid to three quarters its former height, &c.; the heart's sounds become almost inaudible. On the other hand, no alteration en-