RESPIRATOEY SYSTEM. 157 Hyde Saltek, M.D.—Lancet, Nov. 14th. Records of three cases of extremely severe asthma, in which very great rehef was obtained during the paroxysm by full doses of alcoholic liquor, brandy, whiskey, gin. The stimulant is to be taken with a little very hot water," the hotter apparently the better. If taken cold, it does no good. Its continued use requires that the dose should be constantly increased, in order to produce the same effect. Intoxication is not necessary to the beneficial effect. In the recorded cases all other means had been used fruitlessly. Abbotts Smith, W., M.D.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Nov. 21st. Relates a case of hay fever, and suggests that it is occasioned by benzoic acid being given off in emanations from the Anthoxanthmn odoratum, and the Holcus odoratus during hot weather. Cold bathing, ice internally (allowed to dissolve in the mouth), lobelia, and quinine with sulphuric acid, are the best remedies. Hjaltelin, J., M.D.—On the Epidemic Influenzas of Iceland, especially the last one of 1862. Edin. Med. Jour., Feb., 1863. Hjaltelin says that it often happens that this disorder arrives in Iceland a year later than it does on the Continent of Europe. The epidemic of 1862 was preceded by a dry, thick, ill-smelling fog, and prodigious swarms of flies. Great apathy was a marked symptom. The fever had a marked type, subsiding in the morning and aggravated in the evening, followed by restlessness and neuralgic pains, especially lumbago, otalgia, odontalgia, neuralgia intercostalis and facialis, and hemicrania. All the mucous membranes of the body were, in the more severe cases, in an evident hyper- semic state. That of the urinary organs he notices as being especially in- volved, and so also was often that of the intestinal canal. Serous effusions in the pleurse and pericardium were extremely common, and occurred when there was no clear sign of previous inflammation. Hjaltelin believes the disease to be both contagious and the result of atmospheric miasm. He recommends quinine as a preservative, and veratria as a remedy in the disorder, besides other anticatarrhal remedies. Easton, J. H., M.D.—On the Use of so-called Expectorants in Disease of the Mucous Membrane of the Lungs. Glasgow Med. Journ., Oct., ^^^•3- ... Easton criticises the"views of Dr. Gairdner, and states—(i) That as in the early stage of bronchitis the membrane is inflamed and dry, and there is nothing to be expectorated, the remedies which are employed cannot be called expectorants ; they ought rather to be termed relaxing broncho-muco- alterants. (3) That as in chronic bronchitis the system is often in an atonic state, aiid ihe mucous membrane of the lungs is always so, the in- dication is to invigorate by agents which might be termed stimulating broncho-muco-alterants. (3) That to excite the muscles to healthy con- traction which perform the necessary act of coughing, various stimulants should be used, which may be termed pneumo-musculo-excitants. Gkiepenkeiil.— On the Treatment of Hooping-cough by Ergot of Bye, I Deutsche Klinik. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec, 1863.