IIEPOIIT ON SUUGHRY. 218 sufficiently distiugulali tlio symptoms peculiar to the disease and those dopeudent on Boplica'inia unci pyjpniia, and accordingly gave an untrue representation. One of tlio niost eonstaut and important symptoms of the commeuciug disease is tlio violent, deep-seated pain, generally limited to a distinct spot, but by no means always to the neighbouHiood of the epipliysis; indeed it is not uncommoiily referred to the middle of tlie thigh, or even further. The character of the pain is very variously described by patients ; it is always, however, increased by the least pressure; its continuance for a lengthened period, even after extensive incisions, and its situation deep in tho interior of the bone, are important symptoms. A more or less characteristic functional disturbance is usually observed contemporaneously with the occurrence of the paiu; the extremity can no longer be raised, the patient com- plains of a sensation of great weight, and as if the leg would break when he attempts to raise it. At first, he usually lies in bed stretched out, at a later period almost always flexed. Between the third and eighth day there generally appears a swelling, which is at first indis- tinct and diffuse, and usually placed in the lower third of the thigh, though soon extending in every direction. The surgeon may, however, generally malce out with certainty a doughy, (Edematous infiltration of tiie skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, and a firm swelling springing from the bone. So far, there has been no increase in the temperature, no inflammatory discoloration: these appear only at a later period, and in many cases not till a gradually enlarging abscess approxitnates to the skin. So long as the acute oedema remains, there is a dirty, earthy paleness, witli more or less markings of the veins. A di9"use abscess may often be discovered at the end of the first, or in the course of the second week ; spontaneous discharge of the matter rarely follows. The afi'ection of the joint does not, as the rule, appear before the end of the second week, and more frequently not till after the third week. An intense fever, sometimes with repeated rigors, mostly with sleeplessness, headache, delirium, loss of appetite, red, dry tongue, &c., soon follows the local pain. A diphtheritic affection of the mouth was only obseiwed in one ease. The uniform course of the fever may be interrupted at any time by rigors, which are excited by embolic closures of vessels, bursting of an abscess into a joint, secondary abscesses, hypostatic inflammatory processes, &c. The whole appearance of the patient shows even in tiie first week the seriousness of the affection. The further course varies, according as the case ends in recovery, and then usually with a very protracted convalescence, or in death from py£emia, septicajmia, or hectic. The appearance of the tissue found on the examination of in- cisions carried down to the periosteum for the discharge of the pus or ichorous matters, varies at different periods of the disease. Separation of the epiphysis occurs most frequently in the tibia, and usually happens in the second month. Its first symptom is for the most part dis- coloration caused by the pressure of the head of the bone; it is associated in many cases with a doughy swelling of the skin ; botli the discoloration and swelling are, as the'rule, located at the inferior part of the popliteal space, and at the front, in the region of the ligamen- turn patelije, there is a saddle-like depression.