REPORT ON PHACTICAL JIEDICINE. 118 Report on the Occurrence of Aural Ilcematomata in thelnaane. Schmidt's Jnlirb., vol. 117, p. 77. Twelve cases are recorded, nnd the question of the mode of origin of these formations is then taken up. Some regard it as merely traumatic, others believe it to depend only on some internal dyscrasia. The latter state that they occur especially in paralytic idiots and in the chronic forms of mania and melancholia. When they are observed in other more acute forms of mania they indicate a transition into a more chronic con- dition. Jung, however, does not think that they make the prognosis neces- sarily bad, and affirms that cures are not infrequent in patients who have had them. Sometimes even they seem to have a critical character. In pa- ralytics they especially appear when the cerebral disease, by impairing the innervation, has made the circulation weak and irregular, and occasioned oedema, ecchymosis, and local gangrene. Hoematomata are much more frequent in men than in women. They occur in docile patients and in those who after recovery make no complaint of having been ill-treated by their attendants. They affect most often the upper and outer parts of the cartilage, most rarely the helix ; sometimes they seem to move gradually from above downwards. Jung thinks that hsematomata may originate in two ways, either by active congestion, or by passive haemorrhage. The first form causes less change than the other, and appears to depend on paralysis of vaso-motor nerves and loss of resisting power in the walls of the vessels. It is most frequent in exacerbations of chronic forms of insanity, witliout any suspicion of paralysis. The second variety of hsematoma results from general disorder of nutrition, dyscrasis of the blood and nutrient fluids, and is similar to hsematomata of the dura mater. By those who maintain the traumatic origin of the disorder it is objected that it is extremely rare whenever the patients are well looked after and taken care off, so that in the Vienna asylum, containing 700 lunatics, no instance has occurred during six years. They also remark that no prodromata are observed, nor any gradual development and decline of the disorder; and further, that it mostly occurs in patients who are refractory and obstinately resist the administration of food and necessary attention. As regards the patho- logical anatomy, it seems generally agreed now that the effusion of blood is not under the skin, but under the perichondrium, and that it is the shrinking up of this membrane and the formation of fresh cartilage in Layers or nodules on its inner surface which give rise to the thickening of the ear. The hsematoma is described as a larger or smaller tumour, tense, usually fluctuating, hemispherical, circumscribed, the skin over which is normal, of a bluish-red tint. It appears suddenly, remains a long time stationary, and disappears after some months, leaving the ear variously deformed. Some recommend early incisions and pressure, others prefer leaving it quite alone. MUSCULAH SYSTEM. ZuRADELLi, CRTS.—On the different kinds of Contractions of the Muscirs of the Arm, especially of that simultaneously affecting the Biceps ayid Supinator Loiiyus. Gaz. Lomb., 4, 6, 7, 8, 1861. Schniidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 166. The disease is rarely idiopathic, mostly symptomatic; more frequent