IlEPORT ON PIIACTICAL MEDICINE. 170/t casionally also tlicre arc vesicles, pustules, or fissures on the affected parts, from which secretions exude, and, becoming dry, form crusts. The gastro-intestinal symptoms are more marked—there is a morbidly acute appetite, a red and fissured but not generally coated tongue, and the bowels arc much relaxed. There is pain down the course of the spine and in the limbs. The nervous power also is impaired, so that there are tremor of the extremities, with headache and vertigo, a very desponding state of mind, and not unfrequently delirium, together with emaciation and weakness. (3) In the third stage the affection becomes persistent. The skin may either display the thick and dark epidermis, or there may be fissures and crusts, or the eruption may have entirely disappeared, leaving no trace but the thin and transparent cuticle. The patient's strength is now very greatly exhausted, and he is thin and sallow. The appetite is generally voracious ; he has constant diarrhoea, suffers from excessive despondency or maniacal excitement, and ultimately sinks into a fatuous condition. There is increased tremulousness of the extremities, ' with more or less complete loss of the power of movement. Ultimately the powers of deglutition and of speech may be affected, and usually he has impairment of common sensation 'or of sight. In this way he more rapidly or more gradually sinks, death being sometimes preceded by dropsical effusions into the large cavities, or by convulsions, and too fre- quently accelerated by suicide. Of 310 cases admitted into San Servolo at Venice, in the five years terminating 1861, eighty-two were cases of mania, two of monomania, ninety-five of melancholia, and 130 of de- mentia. The general paralysis which attends the last periods of the disease is identical in its symptoms and morbid appearances with that of the insane. The duration of the disease varies greatly, but is usually two to three years, and often much longer, even for sixty years. Pellagra is essentially a disease of the rural districts. Ballardini found in 1856, that of the whole number in the Milanese provinces, Sp"^ per cent, were peasants, 7-7 were artisans, and 3"6 followed other occupations. The disease is non-contagious, but is generally regarded as hereditary. Cal- derini states that of T84families, comprising 1319 individuals, inheriting predisposition to the disease, 648 were affected, and 671 were healthy; and it is supposed the mother more generally conveys the disease than the father. The disease affects both sexes and all ages, especially the years from thirty to sixty. Death often occurs from marasmus, and it is stated that there are then usually no evidences of disease in the intestinal tunics, beyond some redness or congestion and a peculiar thinning of the mucous membrane. Death is also frequently the result of the cerebro- spinal affection, and effusions of serum beneath the arachnoid, in the ven- tricles, or into the spinal canal, with softening of the brain or spinal cord, are then usually detected. Phthisis and scrofula do not appear to be at all prevalent among the pellagrose, nor does renal disease seem to occur. The frequency of the disease varies greatly in different districts, in Bres- cia amounting to 34*3 per 1000, in Sondrio forming only o'03 per 1000, of the population. Of the whole number of cases, 29,476 were cured, or 78-3 per cent., while 5657 remained uncured, or iJ-4 percent. ; 3390, or 9 per cent., had mental alfections connected with the disease ;"i 10, or 0 029 per cent., committed suicide; and 2385, or 63 per cent., died naturally.