GENERAL SYSTEM. 63 \\'\U£, W. F.—On the treatment of Rheumatic Fever. Laucet, Oct. lOtb. . . . n "Wade tliinks that when delirium occurs in this disease it is from a detlcieucy of fibrine in the blood. In the cases where he has met with delirium the disorder has generally supervened upon diiirrhoea, and has yielded under the free use of stimulants. He uses alkaline treatment, but recommends also the administration of two to four grains of quinine every three or four hours, as soon as ever there is a distinct remission in the symptoms. This occurs in from twenty-four to seventy-two hours^ after'the commencement of the treatment. The nitrate and acetate of potash are continued night and morning. On the same day that the quinine is commenced, or on the next, meat and wine ai-e allowed. After the rheumatism is gone he gives iodide of iron. WiLKS, S., M.D.—On the Syphilitic Affections of Internal Organs. Guy's Hosp. Reports, 1863. "Wilks observes that in syphilis there is a tendency to the effusion of a low form of lymph or albumino-fibrous material in nearly every tissue of the body, occasionally modified in character to a slight extent by the organ in which it occurs. He thinks the distinction between secondary and tertiary symptoms is not well founded, and believes that the internal depositions occur at the same time as the external. What is called primary syphdis is not syphilis at all. Various morbid changes occur as sequelse of syphilis; but as they may be induced by other causes, they are not truly syphilitic. Such are caries and necrosis, disease of the carti- lages of the krynx, the lardaceous or waxy disease. Both true syphilitic alterations and non-specific sequelae may exist in the same subject. The action of mercury is highly beneficial in the former, but is eminently pernicious in the latter. Thus in true syphilitic caries mercury is useful; but if disintegration commences, above all remedies it would be harmful. The deposits take place in muscles by the exudation of a soft albuminous matter, which infiltrates the tissue, and subsequently becomes firmer. In the liver the same process occurs, and leads to the formation of fibrous nodules, which shoot out their fibrous rays into the surrounding hepatic tissue. The syphilitic deposit is characterised by its general appearance and the attendant circumstances more than by any minute structural peculiarity. He gives cases illustrating the occurrence of deposits in the various viscera, which were more or less certainly syphilitic. With regard to the brain, he says, " the majority of cases which have come under my own notice have been of the following kind. The dura mater is intimately united to the brain by adhesions of the serous surfaces; and this not by cellular tissue, but by a hard, yellow substance, sometimes of great consistence, and destroying or involving the ciueritious matter or encroaching on the medullary. In some cases the dura mater was exter- nally'adherent to the bone, and the latter was carious. When the skull is not involved, it is probable that the deposit first takes place in the arachnoid, and, indeed, in the liver and other organs the deposits all occur towards the surface, and their capsules are very seldom free. With regard to bone, there is a disposition in syphilis to the production of an albuminous product beneath the periosteum and iu the vascular canals of