445 BLOOD-STAINS. old, was moistened in a porcelain vessel with tincture of guaiacum. On the addition of oil of turpentine, the stain assumed an intense blue colour, without losing its form ; even when the stains were covered with excrement, so that they were hidden, they came into view on the applica- tion of this test Portions of linen dipped in blood, and then washed with liot M'ater and soap, so as to be colourless, gave a sky-blue colour in the most striking manner. The remaining experiments were for the purpose of testing the action of these reagents upon other substances. Exp. 47 showed that white tanned sheep's leather gives a distinct blue tint when placed in contact with oil of turpentine and tincture of guaiacum. A decoction of the leather gave the same reaction, but on steeping the leather in cold water no colour was obtained. The source of this effect could not be ascertained. Common filtering-paper slowly gave a very sliglit greenish-blue tint on the application of this test. Besides the iron salts mentioned by Van Deen, Liman found that the hydrated oxide of iron gives a feeble blue colour. He remarks that iron spots on clothing may be distinguished from blood-stains by their much sharper contours, and by their colour presenting only various shades of yellow, while blood-stains have an olive-green tint, especially when they have been washed. The solubility of iron-spots on linen in dilute hydrochloric acid also distinguishes them. It would be impossible to apply Van Deen's test to the diagnosis of blood-stains on iron weapons, as rust would give the same reaction. Liman's conclusions are as follows:—(i) When a suspected stain yields a negative result with this test, it certainly does not consist of blood. (2) When a positive reaction is obtained, it cannot be at once concluded that the stain arises from blood; but in all probability it is so (a) when its general appearance is that of a stain of dried blood, or of one that lias been washed ; (ft) when the substance on which the spot is found gives no reaction with this test by itself, or at least cold water iu which the stuff has been steeped is not coloured by this process, while a solution of the stain in cold water shows the blue tint; (y) when the spot is ascer- tained not to arise from any preparation of iron. It may be well to add that these investigations were made under the observation of Casper, and that he declares himself fully satisfied of the accuracy of the results arrived at. Pfaff has made some observations on the determination of the age of blood-stains in criminal cases ('Casper,' xx, 2; 'Canstatt,' Baud vii, p. 62). He finds that the solubility of blood-stains varies with the nature of the substance on which they are placed. He takes as the measure of solubility of a stain the time which is required for its edges to be no longer plainly distinguishable from the surrounding clean parts of the texture, when it is acted on by an arsenical solution in the pro- portion of gr. j to 5'j of distilled water. The change of colour of a blood- stain, from crimson to brown, occurs only by a series of gradations, in the course of several months; and solutions of blood of various ages differ, like the spots, in their tints. The bleaching action of chlorine may be used to ascertain the age of blood-stains, as it is exerted more slowly iu proportion to the length of time they have existed. lloppc ('Virchow's Archiv,' xxiii, p. 446) appears to have been the