119 MDSCULAH SYSTEM. where rheumntism is endemic, and as the result of gout, and in the right arm It usually commences so gradually that the contraction is not observed until it has become very marked. The principal symptoms are pain, wean- ness, and sense of weight of the limb; atrophy of the whole arm pro- gressing rapidly ; permanent flexion and inextensibility of the forearm on the arm ; a tense state of the biceps, supinator longus, and coraco-brachi- alis ; permanent supination of the forearm ; weakening of the arm in pro- portion to the degree of contraction, and impairment of its movements, those of the hand remaining free. The contraction sometimes affects only a part of the above-mentioned muscles, as, e.g., one head of the biceps, or only one of the three. As predisposing causes, Zuradelli mentions the male sex, the earlier period of life, and hereditary tendency to rheumatism and gout. As exciting causes, pressure of various kind on the axillary nerves, violent shocks to the arms, dislocations, fractures with shortening, over exertion of the arm, exposure to cold and wet, and the endermic application of strychnia. The form of the disease may be tonic, clonic, or mixed. The clonic causes less pain, is not uncommon in the commencement of chorea, is often followed by paralysis, and belongs more to the period of youth and childhood. A peculiar form, distinguished by fibrillary contractions, is almost always dependent on spinal cord disease. The diagnosis from contraction occasioned by apoplexy and softening is determined chiefly by the antecedents, and concomitant symptoms in other parts. In paralysis of the radial nerve the loss of power is more extensive. Injury to or suppuration of the muscles, leaves its own traces. Disease of the cer- vical vertebrae, causing contraction of the brachial muscles, will be recog- nised by its local effects. The principal complications are neuralgia, hypersesthesia, and muscular rheumatism, loss of muscular consciousness, gout with stiffening exudation, and cerebral congestion. Idiopathic con- traction seldom lasts less than three months ; symptomatic is longer or shorter, according to its causes. The prognosis is not very hopeful, espe- cially when organic changes have occurred, in very young persons, and after the disease has lasted a long time. In rheumatic and nervous con- tractions there is more prospect of recovery. The following definitions are given of the different kinds of contraction :—(i) Cerebral, produced by any brain disease, affecting the flexors, or individual parts of them; rarely permanent at first, disappearing without evident cause, and showing, sooner or later, signs of cerebral congestion, which terminates in apoplexy. (2) Spinal, usually the most extensive, affecting flexors and extensors, almost never limited to one limb, at least for any length of time, conjoined with grave symptoms, as loss of sensibility and easily detected by the pre- sence of manifest disease in the cervical part of the cord. (3) Reflected, accompanying severe neuralgia, of short duration, and either entirely vanishing or passing into other pathological conditions. (4) Rheumatic, ■which follow muscular rheumatism, accompanying gout, or are produced by rheumatism of the braciiial nerves themselves. (5) Nervous, occurring in irritable individuals, and from various toxic agents. (6) Muscular, depending on direct lesion of the muscles, over-exertion, &c. The object of of treatment is, on the one hand, to relax the contracted, and on the other, to stimulate the paretic (antagonist) muscles. General baths are found to relax the contracted muscles, and though the effect is not permanent, yet