lUOl'OItT ON PRACTICAL IIKDICINK. 108 neuralgic and hysterical. In tliis group there are neuralgic affL-ctions of dilTereut degrees of intensity. Sudden spasms or pains in the precordial region may accompany the palpitation, or orbital pains may complicate the exophthalmos. Or there may be the most striking hypersesthesia of the skin generally, and of the special senses. (2) Paroxysmal. The exophthal- mos and bronchocele may be developed paroxysmally to a considerable ex- tent, but subside so much in the intervals as hardly to be recognisable ; or this may be the case as to the exophthalmos only. (3) Orbital and facial. The nervous symptoms, and especially the palpitations, may be less marked, but myopia, weakness of vision, and orbital and frontal neuralgia accompany the exophthalmos. In these cases there may or may not be bronchocele. (4) Cardiac and cephalic. The symptoms referable to the head and lieart may be strikingly predominant, but the exophthalmos and bronchocele be little marked, especially in the earlier stages. (5) Thyroideal and cervical. Bronchocele, with pulsating thrills in the carotid arteries and the vessels of the thyroid, may be strikingly marked, but no urgent cardiac symptoms or exophthalmos. (6) Complicated cases. Com- plications may either precede or follow the local affections.—{a) There may be uterine disorder, (i) The anaemic condition may be associated with haemorrhages, especially meningeal, gastric, intestinal, and uterine, (c) Rheumatism and rheumatic affections may coincide, (ci) Diathetic degenerations, chiefly atheroma of the arteries involved, as the aorta and ophthalmic and thyroideal arteries, and structural diseases of the thyroid, heart, and pericardiuln. (e) Disease consecutive to these, esjjecinlly dropsies and Bright's disease. He refers the exophthalmos to changes in the motor mechanism of the eyeball and eyelid, induced by changes in that part of the nervous system more particularly connected with the eye, and states that it may be sometimes of cranial, sometimes of spin.il origin. The former is the case when the Casserian ganglion, or trunk of the fifth nerve are diseased, the latter when the upper dorsal nerves (in the dog) are irritated. When of dranial origin, the affection is usually one-sided; when spinal it is symmetrical. Laycock, T., M.D.—On the Causes and Nature of the Vascular kind of Bronchocele, and of the Pulsations and Palpitations termed Ancemic. Edin. Med. Journ., July, 1863. Laycock considers that the connection of diseases of the thyroid gland with the functional activity of the reproductive organs in women affords an important clue to the etiology of the neuro-vascidar form of broncho- cele. He says, " If it can be shown that the female reproductive organs influence, physiologically and pathologically, the thyroid body through the nervous system, as they influence other organs—the manimoe, for example — and if the channel by which this influence is exercised can be shown'to be the cervical or ' oculo-spinal ' region, all necessary proof is adduced." Many years ago Laycock referred the class of nervous and hysterical palpitations to a morbid activity of the dorsal portion of the spinal cord, and he now cites Bezold's researches as corroborating his views. " The connection of the heart with the oculo-spinal region may therefore be assumed as proved, and the violent palpitations which accompany the exophthalmos and the vascular bronchocele are seen to be part of the same cerebro-spinal neurosis."