REPORT ON I'RACTICAL MEDICINE. TOO Worms, J.—PM-aly»es from Cold. Gaz. llebd., x, i6, 186,3. Schmidt's Jnhrb., vol. 119, p. 292. Worms regards such paralyses as distinct from rheumatic. Their cha- racteristics are that tliey set in speedily after the operation of the exciting cause ; that the palsy varies iu extent, but never affects the muscles alone, but always, at the same time or previously, the sensibility, or in some cases the latter alone. If the paralysis first appears on the face or trunk it usually remains limited to it; but if it begin in the hands or feet, it is apt to extend further. It is mostly of very short duration; if it con- tinues long, some other cause is in operation. Treatment consists in vapour baths, frictions, and especially electricity. He gives the case of a soldier, oct. 25, who was exposed to cold after being much heated. The same evening anaesthesia commenced in one foot, and extended itself by the ninth day over almost the whole body. Paralysis of motion was also almost universal, so that respiration was performed only by the dia- phragm. The facial and third nerves were paralysed, and smell was lost; speech was much impaired. In a month from the commencement of bis illness the patient had quite recovered. Skoda.—Wien. Med. Halle iii, 13, 1862. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 119, p. 294. Records a case of paralysis agitans, affecting both hands, in a female, set. 32. Cutaneous sensibility was a little impaired, the speech was rather stammering, the vision and intelligence perfect. The patient continued in this state four months, aud then died of variola. The brain was found tough, the walls of the ventricles, the fornix, pons, medulla oblongata, and spinal cord, wei'e surprisingly stiff; both optic nerves were stiff and flattened. In some opaque reddish parts of the brain the nerve-elements were destroyed by embryonal connective tissue ; iu the pons and medulla there were growths of the same tissue, and the vessels were obliterated. The muscles w^ere in a state of fatty degeneration ; the neurilemma of the nerves of the upper extremities was thickened. Jones, T.—Report of a Case of Catalepsy, with Observations. Brit. Med. Jour., June 6th. A male, set. 60, strong made, tall, suffered from the efiects of strong mental shock for fourteen days; had then hallucinations of vision and hearing for two or three days, after which he was suddenly seized with tetanic rigidity of all the muscles, which caused him to be fixed in the position in which he happened to be at the time of seizure; subsequently the limbs retained any position in which they were placed; there was par- tial loss of consciousness, but he was able to walk up stairs ; and if pushed 80 as to make him lose his balance, he made sufHcient exertion to regain his equilibrium. His muscles contracted well under galvanism. He had per- fect control over the sphincters. His urine was natural. In about twenty- two hours the attack passed off, and did not recur. Galvanism and diffu- sible stimulants were beneficial; the cold douche did not appear to be so. VoGT.— Catalepsy at BilUvyshaxisen as an Endemic Jfi'cction. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., iv, 3, ]86*3. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. lao, p. 301. It appears that catalepsy iias long been prevalent at Dillingshausen,