447 SUICIDE. with water, a red solution was obtained. This gave the same reactions, with tannic aqid and with the ferrocyanide of potassium, as sohitions of dried blood. Under the microscope, bodies like blood-corpuscles were seen, but no blood-crystals could be obtained. Further investigation showed that the stain was not one of blood, and that the supposed blood- discs were the spores of an alga, which is therefore named the Porphy- ridium cruentum. This case shows the value, as Erdmann remarks, of the crystallization-test for blood. SIGNS OF DEATH. Dr. Taylor and Dr. Wilks ('Guy's H. Eep.,' 1863, p. 180) have made observations on the rate of cooling after death in 100 cases of various forms of accident and disease. The results which they obtained are thus represented in a tabular form : Number of observations Fiist period, two to tliree llOUTB. Sscond period, fotir to six houi-a. Third period, six to eight hours. Fourth period, twelve hours. 76 49 29 35 Maximum temperature of body 94° 86° 80° 79° Minimum temperature of body 60° 62° 60° S6° Average temperature of body 77° 74° 70° 69° The temperature was estimated in each case by placing a thermometer- bulb upon the abdomen. The period from which the calculations start is not that which had elapsed after death, but that which had passed since the body was brought into the dead-house, which took place generally in from two to four hours, but in some cases not till ten or twelve hours after the time of death. Some curious anomalies were observed in these investigations. In the body of a man who died from Bright's disease, with erysipelas, the temperature was 72° two hours after death, and 74° four hours after death, though the temperature of the air at the time was 42°. The internal organs often retained a high temperature for a long time. In one case it was 76° more than eight hours after death, that of the air being 49°. SUICIDE. M. Legouest ('Gaz. des Hop.,' No. 53, 1B63) gives a good account of the different methods of committing suicide with firearms, which is the way usually adopted by military men. Some stand upright, and, throwing the head back, place the muzzle beneath their chin, pulling the trigger by means of their foot, if they use a gun. The ball in these cases usually passes through the face, causing frightful injury, but not entering the cranial cavity. Others lie down, placing the muzzle of the gun in the same way ; they are more likely to succeed in their object, since they do net throw the head so much back. Others, again, apply the weapon to the outer side of the cranium. The bullet then usually enters the brain, but it may glance off the bone if the gun is held obliquely, and may pass