HEPOUT ON FOUENSIC MEDICINE. 454 wlint is observed dnring parturition, the parietal bones were most fre- quently broken. Fracture of one parietal bone was found sixteen times, and fracture of both parietal bones six times. In one instance one part of the frontal, as well as one parietal, was broken ; once the fracture occupied both portions of the frontal, without involving any otiier bone; and once the occipital alone was the seat of it. Hence it would appear that the presence of numerous fractures of different cranial bones does not admit of explanation in this way. The form of these injuries is also peculiar. Almost without exception, they radiate from the parietal pro- tuberance. One, two, or even three, fissures extend from this point to the margin of the bone; one of them, perhaps, extending across the sagittal suture into the opposite parietal bone. In two of the experi- ments a small portion of the bone was altogether broken off. In other experiments the bodies of infants were subjected to injuries of different kinds. In two instances the corpse of a foetus was allowed to fall from the post-mortem-room table on to the floor ; the parietal bone was fractured in each case. When the head of a child was trodden on with heeled boots, fractures were always produced; they were seated, not only in the parietal bone touched by the boot, but also in the oppo- site one, and they resembled very much the effects of violence done to the living infant. Extensive injuries to the bones were also caused by dashing the foetal head violently against the wall or against the corner of the table. In another series of experiments the child was buried, and the ground was then stamped down till it was level. The corpse was only placed two or three inches beneath the surface. No injury resulted to any part except the head. In three of the four experiments extensive fractures of the cranial bones, on the side to which the force was applied, were found. In the fourth case no effect whatever was produced. On the other hand, forcible compression 0/ the foetal head with the hands, repeated three times, gave rise to no injury. Negative results were also obtained in two experiments in which corpses of infants were placed on a hard surface, and a strong man then lay suddenly down upon them. Compressing the foetal head into a narrow space produced, in two instances, no fracture of the bones, while in the third a small cleft extended from the lambdoidal suture into the left parietal bone, and the coronal suture was separated for a short space. Casper remarks, how- ever, that too much reliance must not be placed on the absence of frac- tures in many of these experiments, for in the adult the dead crauium offers far greater resistance to violence than the living, and this may be the case also in the infant. Direct blows on the foetal head with a mallet or a block of wood pro- duced, of course, extensive injuries of the bones. But in these, as well as in all the other experiments, the fractured edges of the bones were very different from those which are found when the injury has been inflicted during the infant's life. They were quite smooth and sharp, and are compiiredby Cnsper to cracks in glass; they were also not infilirated wiih blood. In only five out of the sixty observations were the edges finely toothed at certain parts. On tlie other hand, fractures of the living bones are irregular and anj^ular, and their edges are more or less infiltrated with blood. Detachment of the dura mater from the bones, separation of the SlUures, extravasations of blood beneath the pericranium, and the formn-