DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1G9 over the whole serous surface, with about 38 oz. of serous effusion. The right side was enhirged, the mediastinum remarkably displaced, and the intercostal spaces protruded. The lungM-as completely flattened, but was perfectly sound and capable of reinflation. It did not contain a single tubercle, or anything morbid. Little considers it fully proved by his case that in certain very rare cases the pleura is capable of taking on a peculiar morbid action, whereby air is copiously secreted into the pleural sac. Rosenthal, M.—On Pneumothorax. Wiener Med. Halle, 4, 5, 8, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 170. Among 4140 patients, Rosenthal had 464 phthisical, and of these 7 (3 males and 4 females) presented the signs of pneumothora.x. The disease was in five on the left side. Sk of the seven terminated fatally. In one case the oesophagus was perforated opposite the sixth dorsal vertebra ; the edges of the opening were turned outwards, giving it a funnel shape, and in this opening there was found a small flat piece of bone ; the right pleura con- tained a large amount of chocolate-coloured effusion. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Flint, A., M.D.—Clinical Report on Hydro-peritoneum, based on an Analysis of Forty-six Cases. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., April, . 1863. The spleen was found to be enlarged in only a small proportion of cases, and in one it was small and wrinkled. Disease of the heart did not appear to have much causative relation to the existing cirrhosis of the liver. Thus, of thirty-two cases in which the condition of the heart was noted, as determined either by autopsical examination or by physical signs, in five cases only were there lesions involving enlargement of this organ. In six out of eleven cases the kidneys were manifestly diseased; in all of these but one they were enlarged and granular. It is, however, by no means clear whether the hepatic disease originates the renal, or vice versd, or whether both have some common cause. Of twenty fatal cases, intemperance in drinking was acknowledged in seventeen. Of twenty non-fatal cases, intemperance was acknowledged in twelve. In two cases only was it certain that the patients were not in the habit of drinking, one of them being a child twelve years old. In fifteen cases, where the point was particularly mentioned in the history, it appeared that the patient had been in the habit of drinking spirits undiluted on an empty stomach. In eighteen cases, where the length of time is noted during which the habit of spirit-drinking had existed, it was found to vary from eight or several years to twenty-five. The supervention of dropsy in ten out of twenty-two cases followed on more or less numerous attacks of intermittent fever. Taking albuminuria as a diagnostic criterion of disease of the kidneys, the latter very rarely existed with hydro-peritoneum, a result which is contrary to that derived from autopsical examination as above stated. In the great majority of cases the disease occurred between twenty and fifty years of age, and in most between thirty and forty. Under the head of symptomatology, it is mentioned that there is an absence of pain, soreness, and tenderness, and of tension of the abdominal