CATHETEUISM OF THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. 271 a male subject, but on blowing into tliem tliere was heard only a very distant dull, not a sonorous near, blowing sound. The bougie, one millimetre in size, could only be pushed three quarters of an inch, and then met with an invincible resistance. After the tympanic cavities had been opened from above, the point of the bougie was found to be fixed on the left side at a flat osseous projection, on the right _ side in a narrow portion of the cartilaginous tube. There were no signs of a pathological change. VI. i8th March.—AuBcidtation gave on both sides of a male subject a full, sonorous sound. A bougie, one millimetre in size, could be passed on both sides through catheter No. 4 an inch and a half, and thus into the tympanic cavity; an elastic catheter of two and a half millimetres, open anteriorly, passed only three quarters of an inch. Through it a sonorous, blowing sound could be heard, which, it may be incidently noticed, must have originated in the tympanic cavity, and not in the guttural extremity, as the instrument passed so deeply. A solution of carmine, which was now injected through the elastic catheter, was afterwards found in abundance in the tympanic cavity. The same experiment was repeated on the left side—with this difterence, that the elastic catheter had an aperture laterally, and not at its extremity. On opening the tympanic cavity, none of the solution was found. VII. On the body of a man, aged 32, a sonorous, full blowing sound was heard by catheterization and auscultation of the left tube. The elastic bougie (i millimetre) easily passed an inch and a half; the elastic catheter, open at its extremity, would only pass three quarters ,of an inch, but the sonorous sound could be also heard through it. A solution of carmine was injected, and then air was blown in, a crackling sound was heard, and a large amount of the solution was found on opening the tympanic cavity. VIII. In the case of a girl, aged 21, where the bougie of one milli- metre passed an inch and a half, and the catheter, open at its end, three quarters of an inch, black ink was injected, and afterwards blown- in through the elastic catheter. A very crackling sound was heard, which, as in the previous experiment, must have been caused by the direct entrance of the air into the tympanic cavity, for the point of the catheter was found at the point of union of the osseous and car- tilaginous portions of the tube, exactly as in the previous experiment, when the tympanic cavity and tube were opened from above. The tympanic cavity and the cells of the mastoid process contained a large quantity of ink. IX. 28th March.—On a female subject, a bougie of one millimetre could be passed an inch and a half into the left tube, whilst one three fifths of a millimetre in size only penetrated seven eighths of an inch on the right side. There was found on the right side a con- siderable lateral deviation of the osseous portion of the tube. From these demonstrations and experiments the committee draws the following deductions: • 1. Air does not pass into the tympanic cavity, when it is blown through the wide silver catheter introduced into the pharyngeal orifice