109 NERVOUS SYSTEM. The thrills and pulsations in the head, neck, and thyroid gland, he refers to disorder of vaso-motor centres in the spinal cord, distinct from those which influence the heart. The proximate cause of nervous and anaemic palpitations, pulsations, and thrills, is, according to Laycock, heat locally developed, in consequence of a lesion of the vaso-motor nerves, which raises the temperature both of the arterial tissues and of the blood circu- lating through them, and thereby excites them to that increased activity known as pulsations, throbbing, and the like. The heart is excited by the same stimulus, as Calliburcees' experiments show. The beneficial effect of cold appUcations to the vascular bronchocele contributes evidence con- firmative of these views. On the relations of his subject to neurosis, fevers, inflammations, and anaemia, Laycock observes " that rapid erema- causis of the tissues, and the consequent production of heat, and there- with the increased vascularity which constitute the essential morbid phe- nomena, is obviously but an exaggeration of a natural state common to all hot-blooded animals. If it take place within the cerebro-spinal axis or in particular portions of that axis, then there result the varieties of neurosis which are said to be due to irritation, and not to inflammation, and which are predominantly characterised by exaggerations of function ; if within the heart and large vessels, nervous pulsations and palpitation. But if the morbid state involve the blood itself as well as the vaso-motor system, then a very important additional element in causation is intro- duced ; for if, on the one hand, it be certain that the varying states of that system increase or diminish the eremacausis of the tissues and the pro- duction of heat, so it is equally certain that the condition of the blood, as the nutrient fluid from whence the materials are drawn Avhich keep up the eremacausis, will deeply influence it likewise, and therewith those con- ditions of the tissues themselves M'hich are structural, according to the varying constitution of the blood. And this is what occurs in anaemia, fevers, and inflammations. If a certain kind of blood defect concur with a local vaso-motor defect, involving chiefly the heart and large vessels, the two states are the factors which constitute conjointly the cause of ancemic pulsations, palpitations, and thrills. Here the state of the blood may be considered as the antecedent or predisposing cause. If, however, the two conditions be general, and due to specific causes, then arise the phenomena of specific fevers; or if the general vaso-motor defect be also localized and restricted to an organ or tissue, then arise the phenomena of specific inflammations. Fletcher, J. 0., M.D.—0» Exophthalmic Goitre. Brit. Med. Journ., May 23rd. Fletcher records six cases under his own care, and three under Dr. Thorburn's. He gives numerous references to previous writers on the disease, and quotes the details of several post-mortem examinations. He docs not agree with any of the theories that have been already brought forward, but is inclined to think that the disease consists in hyper- aemia of the brain and sympathetic ; that this hypcri3cmia modifies the primary and secondary assimilation ; that the latter interferes with the normal elimination of one of the primary animal compounds formed in secretion (cholcstcrine ?), and thus induces spauoemia; that this spanremic