216 EEPOltT OX SUKGKIiy. the more frequent implication of an adjacent joint, and by the serious general symptoms. (2) There is a dift'use tln-ombosis of the veins of the bone, wliicli, in analogy to simihir processes in the soft parts, sliould be distiiiguislied from osteophk'bitiH; it is for the bones the analogue of phlegmasia alba dolens, and may end in phlebitis and periphlebitis of the veins of the bone. (3) In both forms putrid decomposition, witli its further consequences, and the symptoms of septicasmia, may sometimes be observed (osteo- myelitis septica). (4) Both forms may lead to purulent metastasis. There is, however, no necessary connection between pya3mia and any form of osteomyelitis. Tiie author, in his description, especially notes two of the pathological changes accompany ing pure diffuse osteomyelitis, tlie periostitis and the disease of the adjacent joint. The former generally possesses the same characters as the changes of the medulla; thus it is usually purulent. The pus is deposited to the outer side of the periosteum, in its tissue, or between it and the bone ; and it may, as in genuine osteomyelitis, undergo tuberculization or putrid decomposition. Chassaignac supposed that the pus, produced by the periostitis, accompanying inflammation of the medullary tissues, was peculiarly characterised by its containing large quantities of oil- globules. The author states that such a symptom is quite accidental, and often absent. Fibrous inflammation of the periosteum accompanies principally dry proliferations of the marrow: the exudation ultimately changes into a fibrous layer, as hard as cartilage, and so closely con- nected with the periosteum, that no distinct limit can be perceived. The author has only studied one case of hemorrhagic periostitis. Osteo- plastic inflammation of the periosteum has been mentioned by most authors only in connection with necrosis, but the author's experience proves it to be of frequent occurrence, and the constant accompaniment of recovery, whether necrosis has occurred or not. The latter is cer- tainly rarer than is generally supposed. The author's cases prove that even in the purulent forms it is by no means a conditio sine qua non of recoverj*. In respect to the frequency of the characteristic joint-disease accom- panying spontaneous difiuse osteomyelitis, the author agrees fully with Chassaignac, but not in regard to the joint aflected. For whilst the latter asserts that the more central joint is always attacked, tlie author found in his seventeen cases of osteomyelitis femoris, the Itnee always aflfected, with the exception of a solitary case, in which the hip suffered. According to his examinations, the disease of the joint occurs in the following forms :—i. Very often in that of an acute oedema, a dropsy of tlie joint from the increased pressure in the capillaries and veins of the synovial membrane, which results from thrombosis of the veins of the bone and periosteum. 2. Empyema of the joint is very frequently found, owing to superficial suppuration of the synovial membrane; it may retro- grade, even without the pus being discharged externally, and the power of motion maybe tolerably restored. 3. Deeply-penetrating destructive inflammations of the joint, in which no direct transmission of the process through the epiphysis can be found; they appear to depend on embolism,