104 llKl'OilT OX rUACTICAL MKDICINli. the wrists and the legs down to the ankles in flannel. (.3) As auxiliaries— (a) to take abundant physical exercise, and to use dumij-bclls when practicable, or other special means oi' increasini; the respiratory activity and of expanding the energy of the spinal cord ; (6) so to cut or dress the luiir that it shall not cover or keep warm the upper part of the back of the neck; (c) to exercise the brain daily and systematically in some healthy study, or, if this be impracticable, to ensure regular mental acti- vity by means of some interesting employment; (d) to take care that the dress along the centre of the back be light and cool. Meryon, E.—Pathological and praetieal Researches on the various forms of Paralysis. Brit. Med. Jour., May i6th, July iith, 35th, Aug, 32nd, Oct. 24th, Dec. 26tb. Our limits do not permit us to do more than to refer to these valuable papers. Wjdal.—Case of Obstiyiate Hiccough, accompanied bij serious symptoms, cured by Sulphate of Quinine. Gaz. Med. de I'Algerie. Lond. Med. Rev., April. A man in Algeria was admitted under the care of Widal, suffering under the consequences of cerebral congestion. Five or six daj's after his admission, and after excess in alcoholic stimulants, he was seized with ' violent hiccough, the incessant spasms of which compelled him to remain in bed, and resisted all treatment by antispasmodics. The hiccough was so intense and noisy that it was heard outside the hospital. The number of diaphragmatic contractions reached fifty-five in the minute, and their energy was so great that all the muscles of the trunk participated in them. There was considerable dyspnoea, short inspiration, red face, white tongue, loathing of all kinds of food ; pulse small—80. Infusion of orange, ether, and laudanum, a blister to the epigastrum, sinapisms to the extremities, were all used without success. Afterwards a pill was given, containing about one third of a grain of extract of opium, every two hours, and the blister was dressed with Morph. Mur. The next day, notwithstanding the enor- mous doses of opium, the hiccough continued with the^same violence ; the epigastrium was rather tender on pressure, and the patient had not slept an instant. The strength was gradually failing, the pulse was very small, and the loss of appetite was complete. Extract of belladonna in large doses, valerianate of zinc, subnitrate of bismuth, magnesia, aperients, and chloroform, were all unsuccessful. W. now had recourse to quinine— twelve grains at a dose. The next day it was announced that the hic- cough had entirely disappeared three hours after the quinine had been taken, and the sleep and appetite were both restored. The quinine was taken every day in the same dose for three days, and the hiccough never returned, but the patient gradually recovered his strength. The hiccough liad lasted, without intermission, nineteen days. Greenhow^ E. W.—On Diphtherial Nerve Affections. Edin. Med. Jour., Aug., 186.3. Greenhow records five cases carefully studied by himself in the Middle- sex Hospital. He premises some general remarks, from which we extract the more important. While he admits that nervous disorders by no means