NEUUO-RETINITIS. 265 explains tlie condition of the vision, and tliere can be no doubt that it is also the cause of the contraction of the visual field, for it is a matter of experience that such processes scarcely ever leave it intact, although, of course, we cannot account for the exact form of the contraction. Our (liaffnositi is accordingly—hilaferal nenro-retinitis, with consecutive amblyopia, and circumscribed exceutrical contraction of the field of vision, VI compani/ u-ith an iniracranial lesion. The latter must be considered, from' its symptoms, as a basal meningitis, possibly de- veloped from chronic * meningitis, which had existed for a longer period. It is possible that this inflammatory process may result from some other disorganization, of which, however, there are no sufficient .symptoms. The constitution of the patient gives us no assistance. The lungs are healthy, nor is there any hereditary tendency to tuber- culosis. Examination of the circulatory and abdominal orga,ns, of the digestive functions, and of the urine, gives a perfectly negative result. The history shows no trace of earlier scrophulosis or syphilis. We are, therefore, obliged to hold to the simple supposition just given, which is, indeed, supported by tolerably frequent analogous cases. The prognosis in general appears dubious ; the present attack of meningitis appears to have reached its conclusion, and thus there is no fear of its extending further. But, on the other hand, there is no reason why it should not recur. Nor can any certain prognosis in respect to the power of vision be deduced from the existing symptoms. Perfect restoration is improbable, because such processes of neuro-reti- nitis lead, as the rule, to partial atrophy of the optic nerve and retina in cases where the visual field has once become contracted. Among more favorable symptoms we find that the margin of the visual field is still at a considerable distance from the point of fixation; that the power of distinguishing, though much lessened, is still tolerable in comparison with the condition of the retina, and that, according to her account, there has been no further deterioration for eight days. The prognosis is certainly more favorable m respect to the power of distinguishing than in reference to the field of vision. In general, we may assert that this is by no means an example of the worst course of neuro-retinitis, for in other cases, of which we have at this moment two examples in the clinic, all power of vision is entirely lost in a few days. As the patient has yet attacks of cephalagia and periodical febrile augmentations of the temperature, the treatment will consist of local bloodletting behind the ears, of nitrate of potash with the infusion of senna internally, and of a derivative regimen. Novemler—second i)resentation of the patient.—In general, she has been better; there has been no pain in the head for the last six days. The condition of the muscles and fundus of the eye, and the de- terioration of vision, remain essentially the same. To-day, as the acute symptoms have subsided, we shall stop the medicines recently ordered ; we shall direct that a seton be applied through the nape of the neck, and that the bichloride be administered internally, such means being tliose from which wo have seen the best eSect in chronic meningitis unattended by any special indications.