PSYCHIATllIK. 117 the patient to pass without wear or irritation through this stage of the malady. Its action has been to steady the pulse, and thus apparently to supply the brniu better with blood, and so to obviate the tendency then ex- isting to effusion of scrum, consequent on the inflammatory process going on, as we believe, in this stage of the disease in the arachnoid and pia mater. JlAUcfi, L, V.—On Senile Dementia, and the differences between it and General Parnhjsis. L'Union Med., May 28th, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1863. Marco, from his experience at the Bicctre, concludes that—(i) Senile de- mentia does not constitute a distinct morbid entity. It is in reality an ag- gregate of symptoms pertaining to different organic affections of tlie brain, and notably to apoplexy and softening. (3) It is made up of two scries of symptoms—those ou the one hand of motihty, which becomes more or less affected ; those on the other hand of intelligence, chiefly a progressive enfceblement, to which is superadded maniacal or melancholic delirium. (3) The disturbances of motility are always explained by organic lesions in the course or at the origin of the motor fibres. To cnfeeblemcnt of in- telligence there correspond atrophy of the convolutions, fatty infiltration, and more or less complete obliteration of the capillaries of the cortical layer, and atheromatous degeneration of the cells of the nerve-tubes. (4) Senile dementia may be distinguished from general paralysis in most cases by tiie signs above alluded to. In an anatomico-pathological, point of view, these two diseases have atrophy and fatty degeneration of the tubes and cells as a common terminal result. But in general paralysis this atrophy is consecutive to a plastic exudation, which, arising around the Avail of the capillaries, gives rise to adhesions between the pia mater and the cortical layer, diminishes the calibre of the vessel which it compresses, and obstructs the circulation of the blood. In senile dementia, on the contrary, the obliteration is consecutive to atheromatous deposits, which arise spontaneously in the capillaries, in consequence of advance of age and diminution of assimilative force. Flinzer.—On Insane Colonies. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 230. After citing a great number of authorities who have expressed their - opinion respecting the institutions at Glieel and similar institutions, he states that all who have given their attention to the subject agree that Gheel, in spite of its many imperfections and deficiencies, shows how a large number of insane patients can be taken care of without isolating them or shutting them up in asylums; that many patients bear a greater amount of liberty than is usually believed, and that a family life is quite pleasant to them, and agrees well with them. It is, however, extremely important that the cases sent to such institutions should be properly- selected, only the comparatively tranquil and more chronic cases being suitable to be placed there. The circumstances at Gheel are so peculiar from its antiquity, the long habituation of its population with the care of the insane, and its religious traditions, that it is scarce possible to think of reproducing it exactly elsewhere. The most practical idea seems to be to have a colony, more or less resembhng Gheel, attaclicd to an asylum, from which proper cases could be at various times trau-^ferred, and to which any could return, who were found unfit for extra-asylum life.