IIEASUIIING THE ACTJTENESS OF VISION, 21-1 ophthalmoscope and the internal diseases of the eye (reviewed in the 'Ann. d'Ociil.,' vol. xlviii, p. 290). J. Z. Laurence, the progress of ophthalmic surgery (Lond., 1863). E. Canton, on the arcus senilis (pp. 228, Lond., 1863). A. W. Volkmann, physiological researches in optics, ist fasciculus (Leipz., Breitkopf and Hartel). A new journal, edited by Dr. "W". Zehender, has been commenced, under the title of ' Klinischc Monatsblatter fiir Augeuheilkunde ' (Erlangeu, T. Enke). In Snellen's work the ascending and descending portions of each letter are imiform in thickness, and exactly five times longer than broad. A number is placed over each set of letters, which gives the number of Paris feet at which a normal eye sees the height of each letter under an angle of five minutes, and therefore the breadth of each stroke under one of one minute. The author assumes that an eye of normal acuteness sees lines distinctly under an angle of one minute, or, inversely, that an eye which sees lines distinctly under a visual angle of one minute possesses the normal acuteness of vision. This assumption is founded on the researches of Hooke, according to which an angle of one minute is necessary for the accurate distinction of lines. By means of this supposition the author gains a comparable numerical expression for the degree of visual power in the following manner. The visual acuteness of an eye (S) is equal to the proportion of the distance at which the eye clearly distinguishes the letters {cl) to the distance at which the eye sees them under an angle of five minutes (D), i. e. S = ^. If, for example, an eye sees the letters marked I, V, XX, at a distance of i, <, 20 Paris feet respectively, then S =— = = — = i, or, in other words, the acuteness is equal to the normal. Should, on the other hand, another eye recognise No. XX at no greater distance than fifteen feet, S would equal — = —, the acuteness beiner less than 20 4 " the normal, a condition coming under the head of amblyopia. There are also eyes which are able to see distinctly at a greater distance than the number assigned ; such eyes possess an unusually great acuteness of vision, of which the proportion is again expressed by ^. It should be mentioned that all abnormal states of refraction must be eliminated by the use of proper glasses before the acuteness of vision can be deter- mined. The author has added to his work specimens of white and coloured letters on a black ground, of black strokes on a white ground, and a series of words in which the letters correspond as much as pos- sible to the desired size. Dr. Snellen adds (and edition, Berlin, 1863, p. 6), that in noting cases he usually inserts the fractions as they are, without reduction. By this means it may be known at a later period what numbers of the type have been employed. Thus, S = — would 20 signify that No. XX was recognised at the distance of ten feet. Where the vision is so bad that the letters are too small, he has