452 REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. being cnrried just fiu- enough to produce a slight tension of the structures of the face. If it be desired to keep tlie body for some time, it sliould be covered with methylated spirit, containing a little Tinct, Ferr. Seficiuichlor., and the air should be excluded. In the case in which Dr. Richardson conducted this process he was only able to carry it out during six hours. At the commencement the face was as black as that of a negro; (he lips were immenselv distended, and the nose was scarcely visible. It could not be identified. When a stream of chlorine gas was passed over the face, its colour changed to a whitish tint; but as soon as the current of gas was stopped, a grayish or clay-like hue returned. The result of the adoption of this method was that three witnesses were able to swear positively that the body was not that of a suspected murderer. STEKILITY. Mr. Curling ('Lancet,' vol. ii, p. ii) discusses the question of sterility in the male sex, showing that it may coexist with perfect virility, the semen being found to contain no spermatozoa. He decides that marriage is not justifiable when this condition is known to exist, but he thinks that its discovery after marriage is not a sufficient ground for divorce. RAPE. _ Moriz ('Casper,' xxiii, p. 337) relates a case of rape of a girl, aged six years, followed by strangulation, and remarkable from the extent of the injury inflicted. The child was found dead, and the perpetrator of the crime was not discovered, though a man was noticed to be with her on the day when she was last seen alive. The vagina was open, and had a diameter of one inch and a quarter, the h3'^men was torn across, and the lace- ration extended three eighths of an inch into the periuaeum. Tiie edges of the wound were sharp, but infiltrated with blood. At the entrance of the vagina numerous spots of coagulated blood existed beneath the mucous membrane ; similar extravasations were found in the whole length of the canal, which was not otherwise injured, though it appeared to be dilated. Some spots on the child's clothes resembled semen, but were not proved to consist of that fluid. There is, therefore, no absolute certainty as to the mode in which the injury was produced. C.ES.\.REAN SECTION. Dr. Berg ('Casper,' xxiv, Ileft 3, p. 219) cites the Russian law as to the performance of this operation in women who die during pregnancy, and discusses the changes in it which he thinks advisable. He believes that there is no chance of saving the life of the infant for more than a very short time by this means ; but it not rarely survives some hours, so that it can be baptized. At present there are legal obstructions to the performance of this operation in Russia which ought to be removed. The surgeon must inform the police. They summon the legal deputies to the spot, and the medical man is then commissioned in writing to perforni the Cfesarean section in presence of the deputation. It is not difficult to conceive that, after these formalities have been gone through, no success is ever attained. The law which Dr. Berg recommends is the following : I. All medical men, without exception, to practise this operation as soon as they receive information of (he death of a woman during preg-