39 GENEEAL SYSTEJF. micd typhus. From his description it seems ns if malarious fever ap- penrcd'in the way of an interlude during the course of a typhus. Of 589 cafCS reckoned as typhus, which Cazalas treated during the Crimean war, 444 were affected willi scurvy. In these the disease developed itself most rapidly, so tlint in 1—2 days tlie typhus condition was fully formed, stu- por constituting the only pathognomonic and constant sign. Often, espe- cially in very cachectic individuals, extreme collapse occurred early, which tcrniinated sometimes in an acute rapidly fatal meningitis, or, in other instances in enteric fever^ Sometimes, but much more rarely, and only in strong persons the disease began with the ordinary symptoms of a cere- bral, or cerebro-spinal meningitis. In non-scorbutic persons typhus began at first almost always with rigors and fever, which occurred intermit- tently, then the disease assumed more the remittent character, and, finally, appeared as actual typhus. Out of 31 patients dying of tj'phus (abdo- minal and exanthematic) Cazalas found in 31 Peyer's patches swollen, honey-combed, reticulated, ulcerated, perforated, or in progress of cicatri- zation. Lebert ('Virch. Arch.,' xiii, 1858) observed in three years at Zurich, among 663 typhus patients 503 cases of abdominal typhus and t6i of abortive typhus. The latter affection is prone to recur, and affords no protection against the abdominal form. The two disorders appear to altej-nate, one receding as the other prevails extensively. The abortive may pass into the abdominal form. Botli have much in common in their causes, and prevail in the same houses. Section b, on iEtiology. — Ebers ('Gunsburg's Ztschr.,' ix, 1858) observed an epidemic of abdominal and exanthematic typhus at Breslau, in wliich more than 1640 cases were taken into the hospital. The abdo- minal form had been epidemic for eight years before exanthematic fever broke out. During this time there had been bad harvests of the cereal and potato crops, provisions had been dear, and misery had been preva- lent. Brand puts down night-watching, over-exertion of mind and body, as causes of typhus. At Stettin, the disease was most prevalent in a dirty, damp, ill-drained part of the town, where filthy water was most commonly used for drinking. Sraoler noticed removal from the country to the town as the most constant cause of sporadic fever, and ascribes its effect to the bad sanitary arrangements of large cities. He observed at Prague that all the typhus cases came from recently inundated districts. Lebert's experience agrees very closely with Brand's. This author regards abdo- minal as nearly as infectious as exanthematic typhus,'and thinks that infec- tion commonly results from other persons using the same privy into which the dejecta of the sick have been thrown. A case is cited where all the members of a family sickened, except one, who had used a different privy. He states that the gaseous emanations of fecal matter, unless mingled with the typhous contagion, do not cause infection ; but that the solid compo- nents do when they are taken into the body either in drinking water, or in any other, and this whether they proceed from a typhus patient, or not. He describes several cases in which a great number of persons sickened, who bad drank water contaminated by sewerage. Kerscliensteiner (' Bayer. Aerztl. Intell. Bl.,' 17, 1859) believes that typhus is commonly propa- gated by infection, and relates a striking example of tbis in a country vil- lage, where the disease spread from one stranger to those in the same