III'U'OUT ON SUIiOKllY. patient allowed to go about ou crutches. lu this way 1 couteud that many more lives can bo saved than by amputations, and of uecesHity "with loss mutilation. Hence, do not amputate for compound and com- minuted fractures occiUTing in the shaft, neck, or head of the thigli- bono." Tho author adds a note, Irom whicli it appears that, out oi' twenty-one cases of compound and comminuted fraciurc; of tiic thigh taken indiscriminately, and treated by AY. van Steinburg, M.D., surgeon to the /Ith N. Y. S. V., with simple extension in the Tuanner just described, two died and nineteen recovered witli tolerably useful liiiiljs. " In compound and comminuted fracture of tlie shaft of the tibia, or even tibia and fibula, from bullet wounds, amputation should not be practised, since liundreds who have accidentally escaped the surgeons have recovered with only slight deformity. I think as many will sur- vive by simply treating these injuries as if they were ordinaiy com- pound fractures from any other cause, an would from amputation, and of course with much more useful limbs. I now know of at least a dozen cases which were destined for amputation that arc now recover- ing, and most of them will be as perfect as before the injury. As soon as practicable after the injury the wounded man should be placed ou a bed or stretcher, and kept there until consolidation of the bone takes place,—or nntil removed to some permanent place for treatment. Extension sufficient to keep the limb to near its normal length. Lateral support given by means of sand-bags placed longitudinally to prevent inversion or eversiou of the foot, as well as for the proper support of the limb. Extension kept up with no bandaging, and the treatment pro- ceeded with as previously detailed in analogous injuries of the thigh,— or, as if it were an ordinary compound fracture of the leg; but under no circumstances should excision be practised. All that can be required is to enlarge the incision, and remove loose spicnla and other foreign bodies. I may here state the great and potent reason why so many compound fractures do badly, is the fact, that the injured limbs are either bound up tightly with bandage and splints, or carried from hospital to hospital without even the support of a stretcher; a proceed- ing which destroys even a limb with simple fracture, and much more one of compound and comminuted fracture." The author concludes his paper in the following words:—" I cannot ur^e too strongly the importance of having an abundance of stretchers foAhe immediate relief of the wounded, and particularly those wounded in the lower extremities, to which can be attached an india-rubber cover, in case of heavy dews or rains. Ey this means the patient is treated more successfully some days after injury than if he Avere transferred to close and ill-ventilated hospitals, houses, or even tents, since you avoid the danger of foul and pus-generating air. These appliances keep them from the wet above as well as below (compare Jiiugken's remarks ou pyjcmia, &e., ' Year-book' for I862, p. 21a). There should be at least.a sufficient number of these stretchers to supply all cases of amputations of the lower extremities, as well as compound and commijiuted fractures of the same, where any eifort is being made to save the limb ; without them our efforts are futile, since the bedstead or stretcher becomes the splint; so in all cases of wounds of the tr\ink."