lueroiiT ON ToxicoLOcy and matkria jucuica. 420 Tobacco.—Ur. E. Smith ('Lancet,' vol. i, 186.3, P- 292) relates some experiments performed on two friends of his own, which show tliat smoking produces, after six minutes, an increase in the rapidity of the pulse, amounting at tlie twentj'-first minute to thirty-seven and a half pulsations per minute. After prolonged smoking, the pulse was found to remain above the natural standard. Gomolvulaceo}. Dr. Beruatzik publishes in the 'Med. JahrbUcher' (Wien, 1862, 1863) a complete description of the pharmaceutical characters of the different varieties of jalap. Since the breaking out of the American ■war, the supply of this drug has been less. Its quality also is inferior, and the root of the Ipomcca Orizabensis, the " light or fusiform " jalap of Guibourt, known in Germany as the " stipites Jalapo?," is moi*e fre- quently substituted for it. Two varieties of the true jalap, the tuber of the Exagonium purga, are described—the one rounded, the other elongated in form. The structure of the last of these is very similar to that of the false jalap; its vascular bundles are, however, less developed. The starch-granules of the true and false jalap are different. Those of the root of the Ipomcea Orizabensis are small; they are also quite opaque; they are barrel-shaped, and grouped in pairs; or they are triangular or quadrangular, and arranged in masses of three or four; they have rarely a globular form. They are not laminated, and present but few fissures. On the other hand, the starch-grains of the true jalap are considerably larger ; thej'- are so transparent that they look like vesicles of water ; they have one or two well-marked horseshoe shaped clefts, and they present concentric lamellae. These differential characters enable the powders of the two drugs to be easily distinguished from each other. The resins may be distinguished by their different solubilit}'' in ether. In Vienna the one is frequently substituted for^the other. The latex (Milchsaft) or resiniferous juice occurs in all the tissues of both kinds of jalap. Its quantity is generally pi'oportionate to that of the starch, while it is least abundant when the tuber contains much woody fibre and cellulose. An exception occurs in the case of the date- and pear-shaped pieces of the true jalap, which^ contain much starch and but little of the juice. These appear to be young tubers which were succulent and well nourished, and which have therefore become much wrinkled during the process of drying. The thinnish cylindrical pieces consist chiefly of bundles of woody fibres, with but little parenchyma, and that in a lignified state. They contain but little starch or latex, which is much more abundant in tlie well-developed, spindle-shaped, and knobbed pieces. Of the specimens of false jalap, the light, porous pieces contain less juice than the thicker, which, indeed, are equal in this respect to the true jalap. The starch-granules are in a formed condition in these drugs, with the exception only of those which occupy the centre of certain very compact pieces of both the kinds of jalap. Their position indicates that their formless state is not caused by the application of heat during the process of desiccation. The colour of the external surface of tlie drug depends upon the point to which this process has been carried, not on the amount of resin; but a yellow and gray tint of the cut sur-