CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 176j TifOKKAU, A.—Hospit. Tidende, 8, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, P- 4,3- KecordvS two cases of phlegmon of the skin of the face ending in fatal pjsemia. Ogle, J. W., M.D.—Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlvi, p. 217. Records two cases of ichthyosis scbacea occurring in two sisters, set. 10 and 14, in good general health. The disorder supervened on some un- healthy sores, which occurred after vaccination. On admission into the hospital they presented the following appearances. Large patches of the skin on the front of the chest immediately above the axillae, as also on both sides of the trunk over the false ribs, and about both knees, as also down both legs (especially in the neighbourhood of the ankles) as well as on the dorsum of the feet, were of a brown colour, so dark as in some parts to be almost black. These discoloured portions were very rough and indurated, owing to masses of dry material covering the surface of the skin, which had the appearance, in consequence of the movement of the parts, of having become broken into scales or small tabular or lozenge-shaped patches, chiefly of a square form, and divided by deep lines, according to the natural creasings of the skin. Owing to these con- cretions, the surface was extremely dry and harsh. Down the legs and arms tiie concretion had less of a scaly form, and more of a papillary character. In some parts at the sides of the knees the affected portions reminded one of the dried and roughened sole of the fowl's foot. By daily warm baths, and inunction first of lard, and subsequently of dilated liquor potassa?, the whole of the morbid sebaceous matter was removed, and the patients were discharged quite free from the affection in about five weeks. It recurred, however, in about three and a half months, exactly in the same parts as were before attacked. The sebaceous matter contained a large proportion of fat, an albuminous substance, and various salts. Under the microscope there were found remains of numerous epithelial cells, besides a number of mainly round and oval, reddish- coloured, solid-looking bodies, of crystalline appearance. Peacock, T. B.—Notes on Hospitals in Northern Italy, and on Pellagra. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. Peacock describes the disease as presenting three stages:—(i) It usually appears in the spring, with a slight febrile attack, which is followed after two or three days by an eruption of red spots, or of erythema on the backs of the hands and the front and top of the chest, and on the feet and ankles. There is usually also some disorder of the digestive organs, especially diarrhoea, and vertigo or headache, at the time ; and the afiec- tion subsides and passes off with desquamation after a longer or shorter period, usually at the commencement of summer. Generally, however, the disease returns with greater severity the following spring; and so, after successive relapses and recoveries, fixes itself in the system. (2) In the second stage all the symptoms are more severe and more persistent. The skin affection is no longer a mere redness followed by desquamation, but the epidermis becomes dark and thickened, and has a tendency to' exfoliate, leaving under it a peculiarly thin and transparent cuticle ; oc-