3USP011T ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 48 disensc, it is extrnordinnry that the uttendnnts ou the Bick are rarely attacked. Murchison has fed a pig for six weeks on the stools of patients suil'ering with enteric fever, hut the animal got very fat, and remained well, and when killed its intestines were perfectly healthy. Yet the pig is well known to suffer from enteric fever. The stools in this disease are remark- ahly prone to decomposition, which would surely destroy a specific animal ))()ison similar to that contained in the variolous or vaccine pustule. (4) The fact that the prevalence of the disease is influenced hy temperature is opposed to the idea that it depends on a specific poison derived from the sick, hut is readily accounted for on the supposition that the poison is generated by fermentation or decomposition. It is possible that the stools of enteric fever are more prone than ordinary sewage to the peculiar fermentation by which the poison is produced, and even that in certain cases the fermentation may have commenced before their discharge from the bowels. In this way enteric fever may occasionally be propagated by the stools, but even then the poison is the result of decomposition, and not of a specific eruption. To the objection that persons are often ex- posed to the effluvia from decomposing animal matter without contracting enteric fever, Mui'chison replies that it is not every kind of animal matter that will generate the poison of enteric fever during decomposition, and that even in the case of sewage it is probable that certain conditions are necessary. It is true that a few cases of enteric fever occur which cannot be traced to defective drainage. Ou this Murchison observes, that if the disease can be proved to originate in a certain way in a number of undoubted instances, it is reasonable to infer that its causes are similar in all cases where it has a spontaneous origin. In conclusion, it is argued that, as there is no analogy between the poison of fever and an organized being, there is no valid ground for denying the spontaneous generation of the former, because we are assured that the latter are never so produced. Primatera and Prudente, MM. (Bull. G^uer. de Therap., Aug. .30th, 1863 ; Brit. Med. Jour., Sept. 12th), state that absence of chlorides from the urine is a pathognomonic sign of typhoid fever. During the increase of the disease, or when it is about to end fatally, there is also a very con- siderable diminution of the phosphates and urates. When recovery com- mences, the phosphates are at first rapidly increased; then the urates in like manner; and, finally, the reappearance, though tardy, of the chlorides, shows that convalescence is fully established. Harvey, E. R., M.D.—On Continued Fever, as it has appeared at Si. George's Hospital during the period May to November, 1862. Of 3 cases where the intestines were found ulcerated, i had no skin eruption; the others had rose spots. Of 3 whose intestines showed patches of congestion, 2 had mulberry spots, and i only petechise. In 8 cases of typhus, diarrhosa occurred, contrary to former experience. Including the fatal cases, there had been 58 cases of fever during the period, of which 9 had died. Of typhus there were 34 cases, of typhoid 12, and of febriculte 12. In 17 of all the cases there was no eruption ; 2 of these were typhoid, 2 typiius, and the others febricular. All the typhoid patients had confusion of thought, but no active delirium. Of the tvphus patients, in 5 the brain was clear, 11 were slightly dehnous.