f GENERAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 351 on Midwifery,' 2nd edit., p. 180) considers uterine contraction to be peristaltic; but, in opposition to Wigand's theory, maintains that it commences in the fundus, and pursues its course towards the orifice of the uterus. The tension of the cervix, which, according to Wigand and his followers, constitutes the earliest manifestation of uterine contrac- tion, is considered by Dr. Murphy to be merely passive, and the result of the mechanical pressure of the liquor amnii propelled against the inner surface of the lower segment of the uterus. Braun (' Lehrbuch der Geburt.,' p. 150, Vienna, 1857) maintains that the contractions of the uterus do not begin in the cervix, but at the orifices of the Fallopian tubes, and then expand equally over the entire circumference of the organ. Scanzoni ('Lehrbuch der Geburt.,' p. 171, Vienna, 1853) agrees with Dr. Murphy in his objections to "Wigand's theory, but holds that a normal uterine contraction commences neither in the fundus nor in the cervix, but is equally spread over the whole organ. Dr. Christie (' Ed. Med. Jour.,' vol. iv, p. 481) asserts that the retraction of the foetal head at the commencement of a labour pain—on which Wigand chiefly based his theory—is not a real, but only an apparent occurrence. The above authorities, though differing as to the origin and course of the uterine contraction, all agree that in each contraction the entire organ participates, the cervix included. The author believes this latter view to be inaccurate, and submits the two following propositions : (i) During natural parturition the seat of contraction is the fundus and body of the uterus; contraction ceases entirely in the cervical segment. (2) The cervix, and a short zone of the body of the titer us, continuous ivith and adjoining it, do not contract tvith each labour pain, but, instead, undergo passive mechanical expansion, by ivhich the canal of the cervix is dilated so as to perm it the escape of the foetus and its appendages. Physiologically, then, during parturition a line separates the lower or cervical zone from the lateral and fundal regions above. Beloto this line there is passive mechanical expansion; above it, active rhythmic contraction. The author supports these propositions by the following arguments: I. The marked differences in anatomical and histological structure between the fundus and cervix uteri. a. In the mode of connection with the peritoneum, on which M. Jobert observes (' Lancet,' 1844, vol. i, p. 3 70), " It may be established as a law that the peritoneum is intimately connected with the body of the uterus by muscular fibre, both in woman and the lower animals, never by areolar or yellow elastic tissue; while through the entire mammalian aeries lax areolar or connective tissue is the mode of union between the peritoneum and the neck of the uterus, the vagina and lare-e ligaments." ^ ^ b. In the great difference between the middle coat of the cervix and that of the fundus—first, in the absence of a superficial layer of longi- tudinal muscular fibres; secondly, in the much more circular an-ange- ment of its muscular fibres ; and thirdly, in the preponderance of elastic fibrous tissue over the muscular element. c. In the peculiar arrangement of the mucous membrane of the cervix