SYPHILITIC DISEASE 01' THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Is onlv a modificatiou of inflaimnatoiy lymph, it would necessarily require a certain amount or distribution of it from which a conclusion could be framed. This difficulty, however, in fixing the syphihtic deposit with any peculiar characters has been considered by some sufficient to discredit its venereal origin, for they have said, why should that be styled specific which presents no other features than those of an ordinary inflammatory product? In answer to this, I would say that, in all probability, time will evolve some distinguishing features in these deposits,- but in the meanwhile I would demand of the doubters whether they disbelieve in the formation of a node on a bone, or lymph on the iris, because they are unable to point to the peculiarities of the eftused products. I think that the changes in one organ are as characteristic as in another; and thus, if an excavated ulcer, with indurated edges and other peculiarities, is called syphilitic, because these are the appearances usually met with in the venereal disease, so iu like manner I should say that fibroid nodules in the liver, deposited towards its surface, and producing a puckering of the surrounding tissue, are due to syphilis, because so frequently met with in that disease. The argument against such a conclusion, taken from the want of any peculiarity of structure, is equally applicable to the syphi- litic deposits on the exterior of the body as well as to a large number of other morbid changes in the system. Lympliatic glands.—" The modern theory is probable correct, that the enlargement and induration of those glands which accompany the Hunterian chancre is evidence of the true infecting character of the disease. When, however, the whole system has become contaminated, the glands in other parts of the body may become involved, and espe- cially the posterior cervical; but in reference to this, there appears to be some question whether they be not enlarged in consequence of some slight eruption on the scalp. In favour of this view, it may often be noticed that when any irritation of the skin exists, they may be ob- served to be larger on that side where the cutaneous eruption is greatest. It would seem, therefore, to be a question still to be answered, whether the lymphatic glands are aftected independently of the part whence the vessels leading to them proceed, seeing that, as a rule, these organs are merely involved in the same disease as the neighbouring texture, as, for example, the mesenteric, by typhoid deposit or tubercle, according to the character of the disease in the ileum; or as the bronchial glands ai'e efiected by cancer, tubercle, mela- nosis, &c., according as the lung itself is; or, as in pneumonia, where they are usually found inflamed, or at least enlarged an(J scrftened; for this reason I can quite believe that, since the lung may be affected by the syphilitic virus, so also may the bronchial glands. " As before said, Avith regard to the liver and spleen, I regard the lardaceous enlargement of the glands as a conseqtience of syphilis. This general enlargement of the cervical, mediastinal, lumbar, and other glands, is sometimes found in connection with the lardaceous change of the viscera, and arises from a general cachectic condition accompany- ing mostly a disease of the bone; but if arising from syphilis, must be regarded merely as the sequelfc, and therefore not directly connected with my present subject.