176;? CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. cutaneous branches of dorsal nerves I have found the dorsal branch of the ulnar alone diseased, and that only after it had escaped from beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. By examination with a low micro- scopic power, it is evident that sometimes only some of the tubules in a nerve-fasciculus may be affected. The following is a list of the nerves oftenest found diseased:—Supra-orbital, just after emerging froin the orbit; auricularis magnis, just after turning round the sterno-mastoid muscle; ulnar nerve, at the bend of the elbow, sometimes in the hand, at the wrist; median nerve, just above the wrist, sometimes at the bend of the elbow ; radial nerve, as above mentioned ; external and internal cutaneous, and intercosto-humeral, after perforating the fascia of ihe arm; dorsal branch of ulnar, as above mentioned. The branches of the lumbar plexus are not frequently diseased, except the internal saphenous, in the leg and on the foot. Of the sacral plexus, the following :—Musculo-cutaneous, after perforating the fascia of the leg ; posterior-tibial, behind the inner ankle. The external saphenous and anterior tibial should also be men- tioned. It should also be remarked that the terminal branches of these nerves are generally found atrophied, and of a transparent, whitish aspect; at this stage it is hardly possible to say whether they were not diseased previously to the larger trunks, or whether this wasting is only a part of the general decay which supervenes in all the tissues, as presently to be described. Those appendages to the nerves, the Pacinian corpuscles, are occasionally found to be diseased ; thus they have been seen in the hands, feet, and abdomen. In a dissected hand the great nerve-trunks were also affected in the usual way ; the corpuscles seemed very numerous, and some were much enlarged, but clear ; the central nerve-fibre, however, was either small or absent ; others were occupied in their central part by a copious granular deposit, and this is probably the early stage ; the capillaries were evident and healthy. Physiological remarks.—In numerous cases, all noted by myself, it has been possible to clearly ascertain that certain changes in the hands and feet were connected with disease of the nerve or nerves supplying the affected parts ; in about twelve cases of a par- ticularly satisfactory kind the following were noticed :—For simplicity's sake, 1 will instance the inner side of the palm and dorsum and the two inner fingers of the hand, with a detected enlargement, often tenderness of the ulnar nerve at the elbow, and no other local symptom whatever. First, the benumbed skin sliows evidences of atrophy, shrivelling or wrinkling, dryness ; desquamation of the cuticle sometimes ; a reddish or purplish hue, and a decided diminution of temperature; the whole giving the impression of a dry wasting or mummifying process, with sometimes the idea of a subjacent effusion of reddened serum. The fingers look thinner, and in slender subjects smoother, with a tendency to assume and finally retain a bent position; the inner margin of the palm becomes concave; the interosseous spaces hollowed, particularly the first (which is occupied by the adductor pollicis muscle, supplied by the ulnar nerve); flic whole hand is weak, and the thumb droops. Interstitial absorption proceeding, the phalanges of the little finger shorten, beginning with the terminal one; eventually no traces may remain of it and of the next finger, which becomes wasted, bent, and shortened, although at such advanced stages it is not common to see the disease thus limited, for the