203 SYPHILITIC DISEASE OP THE EECTUM. trized in a manner whicli could leave no doubt as to its syphilitic origin. The second was a very similar case, the trachea bemg contracted from ulceration. The third case presented considerable thickening of the fibrous structure of the trachea, in all probability of a syphilitic character. In the last case one bronchus was remarkably contracted, a state, no doubt, due to specific ulceration. Rectum—Dv. Wilks has observed " ulceration of the rectum where the disease has extended inwards from the external parts. These cases have more especially occurred in women where an extensive ulceration of the genital organs has occurred, so as to involve the surrounding parts, and finally the rectum. Accompanying the ulceration of the mucous membrane, there has been an inflammation of the pelvic cellular tissue, and thus some contraction or stricture of the rectum has followed." Brain and nerves.—Dr. "Wilks is unable to bring forward any exam- ple of a clearly independent deposit in the brain substance. AH his own cases of undoubted venereal origin, where a post-mortem examina- tion has taken place, have been very uniform in character ; the surface of the brain and membranes have been united by a firm exudation, similar to that met with in other parts. If the neighbouring bone is afiected, it is by caries, and not by exostosis. The membranes are not connected to the brain by cellular tissue, but by a hard, yellow sub- stance, sometimes of great consistence, and destroying or involving the cineritious matter, or encroaching on the medullary. Eye and teeth.—" Various other affections, fully described by surgical writers, I need not dwell upon, such as iritis, although it would bo interesting to ascertain the relation which the nodules of lymph on the iris hold to simple inflammatory exudation, and the resemblance to the syphilitic deposits in other parts of the body. Nor need I but allude to the aflection of the cornea formerly styled strumous, and which Mr. Hutchinson has so w^ell illustrated by cases in his lately published work under the appellation syphilitic interstitial keratitis. It is interest- ing, however, to remark, in reference to the statement made at the commencement of this paper, that it was merely the external parts of the body, and those which come immediately under the view of the sur- geon, which were thought to be affected by syphilis, and thus that the iris was considered to be the only part of the eye afi'ected by syphilis, whereas now we are informed that the cornea, conjunctiva, choroid, retina, and, in fact, aU the structures of the organ, may be involved in a syphilitic inflammation. " I will only remark, as regards the teeth, that I consider Mr. Hut- chinson has well made out his case respecting the alteration they under- go in syphilis, although the doctrine has not yet pervaded all branches of the profession. I have myself no doubt that the notched condition of the upper incisors is the result of syphilis, and is due to an alteration in the form of the tooth when in the pulp, owing to the stomatitis which so often exists in the tainted child. I have seen this condition too often in association with a flattened nose (owing to an expansion of the nasal bones during an infantile periostitis), with corneitis, and other signs of syphilis, to doubt that it has been caused in the manner wliich the above-named surgeon maintains,"