Ill PSYCHIATJUXv. know that the chief characteristic of tuberculosis is an impaired energy in the nutritive processes ; and as a badly nourished bone becomes carious or necrosed for slight causes, or a badly nourished skin becomes subject to parasites, so disordered action results in those imperfectly nourished brain- cells from causes which would not be felt by a healthy brain. It is not the enfeebled nutrition directly so much as the perverted action to which the enfeebled nutrition predisposes that produces the insanity. The peculiar mental state, the incurability of the insanity, the appearance of the brain after death, and its lowered specific gravity, all point to such a cause for the derangement. (13) There is a special relation between deep melancholia, with long-continued suicidal tendencies and refusal of food, and lung disease—either gangrene or tubercular disorganization. (14) There are a few cases in which the insanity is only a kind of delirium, oc- curing during previously developed chronic phthisis, and soon passing off. (15) The prognosis is most unfavorable if tuberculosis occurs in any case of insanity. (16) Half the cases of tuberculosis die within three years after the commencement of the insanity. (17) There is no proof that the " morbid influence of the pneumogastric nerve " has anything to do with the tuberculosis in cases of insanity. (18) Long-continued insanity does not tend to the development of tuberculosis more than to the pro- duction of other diseases. (19) Phthisis is entirely latent in between one third and fourth of all the cases among the insane, and in almost all the others it is latent for a considerable time. This latency is most frequent in general paralysis, in which the majority of the cases of phthisis exhibit no symptoms whatever. (20) There are very few cases where the com- mencement of the insanity benefits the phthisis ; but in a few where the phthisis is very chronic an attack of insanity may be followed by the per- manent disappearance of the phthisical symptoms, or attacks of mania may alternate with symptoms of phthisis. In by far the majority of such cases, however, the phthisical symptoms are merely masked, while the deposition of tubercle goes on. Heschl.—Osterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., viii, 29, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 205. Found in the brain of a melancholic patient, set. 26, an heemorrhagic cavity of the size of a bean, filled with serum and traversed by dege- nerating vessels and connective tissue. The adjacent structure was indurated, and contained several groups of nerve-cells and fibres, partly ossified, partly in process of becoming so. The ossific deposit dissolved in H CI without the development of gas. MiCHEA.—On the Derangements of the Sensations of Hunger and Thirst in the Insane, and on their influence on their Ideas and Actions. Gaz. des Hop., 70, 71, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 206. During stomach digestion some patients become very excited and violent who are calm in the intervals, and in whom there is no notable evidence of dyspepsia. One of them was cured by bismuth and opium. In some cases the sensations of hunger and thirst appear to be quite lost; this condition continued in one patient for eighteen months. Tijis state is mostly met with in the melancholic, while the opposite occurs in states of psychical exaltation, in mania, idiocy, and especially in dementia