IMPOTENCE. 303 the normal action of certain muscles and a normal sensibDity of the glans; from which it results, that an imperfect erection may occur, or there may be even no erection at all, when (i) the sensual excitement is abnormally increased or diminished, and (2) when the sensibility of the glans or the reflex action of the m. bulbo-cavernosus is abnormal. The author has met with such cases of impotence, one side of the penis, and generally the left one, being too much or two little sensijiive to electrical irritation of the skin, and the m. bulbo-cavernosus con- tracting irregularly. Anesthesia causes paresis, hypertesthesia spasm, of the bulbo-cavernosus; both these conditions may be readily diagnosed by the use of the electrical pencil. Diminished reflex action—paresis —is much more common in practice than spasm; thus the author observed the latter only in twenty-four out of eighty-three cases. As a typical example of the hyperaesthetic form of impotence, he relates the case of a robust man, aged thirty-six, who had masturbated from his fifteenth or sixteenth year, and who had attempted coitus shortly after- wards without success, owing to a dragging sensation in the penis and perinseum. Prom that time the same sensation had recurred at night, and an emission without erection occurred on any attempt at coitus. The urethra was so sensitive that a bougie could not be passed. The anaesthetic form of impotence is attended by relaxation, paleness, and coldness of the penis, and by a loose and hanging scrotum. Both these varieties of impotence are sometimes only relative, that is, the indi- viduals are impotent only in respect to certain women. The emission of the semen is principally caused by the contraction of the circular muscular fibres of the urethra; the m. bulbo-cavernosus is only secondarily affected. The ejaculation is an effect of reflex action ; there is, indeed, no doubt that the whole of the sexual act is regulated from a nervous centre in the medulla oblongata. The diseases of the spinal cord, which occur in cases of onanism or of ex- cessive sexual indulgence, evidently depend on the frequent nervous u'ritation, for simple seminal discharges, unattended by reflex move- ments, are quite iminjurious. Such discharges not uncommonly accompany the passage of the faeces; they also occur after long continence, and may be most rapidly cured by regular coitus once or twice a week. Too early ejaculations may occur with or without erection ; only the latter can be considered a form of impotence. The author refers ejaculation without erection, spermatorrhcea, day and night pollutions, to excessive irritation; tardy ejaculation and aspermatism, the complete absence of seminal emission, to dimi- nished irritation. He observed a case in which a man of twenty-eight could not ejaculate till coitus had been continued for an hour' and a half or two hours, and a case of aspermatism in a man of twenty-seven who had never been able to ejaculate during coitus, although he had perfect erections; seminal emissions occurred during sleep in both cases. Treaiment.—In this respect, tlie author distinguishes three forms of true impotence—(i) the anasthetic, in which the electro-cutaneous sensibility of particular parts of the penis is diminished; (3) the hyper- sesthetic; and (3) where ejaculation occurs without erection. He