22 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. from I to 8 per cent, more ; the amount of oxygen present may be as low as I or 2 per cent. ; allowing for the quickened circulation, this shows the cousuraptiou of oxygen to bo very great. (4) The iucreaso of CO.2 was greater in proportion than the consumption of O. The third series of experiments Mas designed to put this last fact to the test. Dogs and rabbits were confined in an apparatus by whieli the gases given oft' by tlieni in respiration were collected, aiid tiiese Avere analysed, first during rest, and again after the hinder limbs liad been tetanized. The result showed that during contraction more CO,^ was given oft" in proportion to the 0 consumed than during rest. The increase of CO^ was from 82 to i8o'5 per cent.; of 0, less than 50 per cent., except in one instance, when it was 7.37. This dispro- portion could not arise merely from the giving off" of CO2 previously contained in the blood; the amount was much too great; nor, for the same reason, could it be ascribed to a using up of the previously existing free O. It follows, that in contracting muscles other decom- positions take place than in muscles at rest. Two explanations are possible—either, in contraction, substances are burnt which are very rich in oxygen, as, for example, the formic and acetic acid shown to exist in muscles by Scherer; or, COj is formed in other ways, without the aid of the inspired 0, by the consumption of 0, which enters into the constitution of the organic atoms. To put to the test the question whether CO.2 is foi*med in the tissues or in the blood, Sachs took two portions of blood from the carotid artery of the dog, and examined the gas-contents of one immediately, and of the other at intervals of twelve, twenty-four, and forty-eight hours. These experiments were made at the temperature of the air. The result was that in the course of forty-eight hours the oxygen almost disappeared, and its place was taken by COg in slight excess. The amount of chemically united COg was slightly increased. No further change took place in seventy-two hours. Sachs confirms Meyer's statement, that if blood is defibrinated, no CO^ is formed in it. The following table exhibits the result of one experiment. In 100 vol. of In 100 vol. of blood THIfermrf Iresli Mood. after forty-eight hours. wuiLrcnce. Free gas . . . 44*722 44"ii4 — ©•6o8 Free COo . . . 29'S92 42-104 -f 12-512 „ O ". . . . i.r677 1-029 —12-648 „ N . . . . 1-453 o'QSi — o'472 Chemically combined C0|) 3-907 5'499 "r ''592 These changes are almost identical with those found by Setschenow in the blood of suffocated animals, but they take place more slowly. To determine whether the greater rapidity of the formation of COo in sufibcation was due to the higher temperature, or to the blood being in contact with the tissues, a portion of blood was kept for six liours at the temperature of the animal body. The gas-contents exhibited scarcely any change; the same result was found on keeping blood for forty-eight hours at zero.