277 TRACHEOTOMY. diu-ing inspiration. Since tlie air cannot enter witli sufficient ease, it l)resses with increased force on tlie more yielding parts during expan- sion of the chest. It must be, ho-wever, remarked, that the value of this sign increases in proportion to the slowness of inspiration, for even a healthy individual w-ill present such a sinkiug-in, when the inspiration is rapid. The inspiration alone is usually impeded, the expiration being rapid and easy, whilst the former is difficult, very much lengthened, and noisy. "Where the expiration is occasionally impeded, as by a foreign body or polypus, the sudden, as it were, valvular ob- struction can be sometimes hoih heard and felt. As to the administration of chloroform during the operation, the authoi'' is of opinion, that it is inadmissible in genuine asphyxia, when the blood is loaded with carbonic acid; in such a condition it is, indeed, quite unnecessary, for sensibility is so much diminished, that even children are sufficiently quiet for the performance of the operation. On the other hand, he recommends its iise in the stage of suffocative agony, when children, for example, are extremely restless. In respect to the operation, he has found it often much facilitated by division of the isthmus of the thyroid gland; he passes and firmly ties a strong ligature around it on each side of the middle line, and then divides it without danger of bleeding. Professor Eoser considers it an important rule—not to open the trachea till all bleeding has stopped. He himself, after much experience in tlie ojjeration, and with practised assistants, had the misfortune to see a child suddenly die from the passage of blood into the trachea, a ligature on the middle jugular vein having been accidently pulled off; he feels himself bound to oppose the most earnest warning to the carelessness, with which this subject is treated by most authors. He is aware of quite a series of cases, in which children perished on the operating table in the same manner; and he has become convinced, from experiments on rabbits, of the reality of the danger which arises from sudden coagulation of the blood in the bronchial branches. He has invented an instrument, somewhat after the eye-speculum of Kelly-8nowdeu, for pressing apart the lips of the wound when a sufficient number of assistants are not at hand. He makes frequent use of a bit of sponge held by forceps, and notes, that a sponge can be more rapidly cleansed by pressing it in a towel than by washing. After opening the trachea, as soon as the first expecto- ration is over, and before the canula is inserted, he passes through each edge of the tracheal wound a ligature, which must not be tied, but only be a little twisted, and fastened on each side with sticking plaster. The operator has then full command over the trachea, and can readily dilate the wound, a circumstance that much facilitates the insertion or change of the canula ; he keeps the ligatures in for three or four days, and has not seen any injurious effect from them in some forty cases. There should always be an elastic catheter in the tracheotomy case; nothing promotes so conveniently and innocuously the discharge of false membranes, and excites expiratory movements, as the motion up and down of a catheter; such an irritation is especially required where asphyxia already exists. He strongly recommends thetransport of cases of croup fromthe country