REPORT ON FOREX SIC MEDICINE. 448 out through the chin, or lodge in the soft parts. When the muzzle is placed in the huccal cavity the course of the bullet is very variable ; it may even remain in the mouth, and be spat out immediately afterwards. The explosion of the powder usually produces frightful eflects in these cases. BURNS. Professor Maschka (' Prag. Vjschrft.,' 1863, vol. iii, p. 36) relates the following interesting case. In the body of a man who perished during a fire, in whom almost all the soft parts were carbonized, a crack was found in the left parietal bone, which was itself burned and superficially charred. No signs of reaction were discovered at the seat of the fracture ; but this was accounted for on the supposition that the action of the flames had destroyed these appearances, and it was thought that the dead man must have received a blow on the head before the fire occurred. Maschka therefore made some experiments to decide this point. He found that the effects of fire on the cranial bones vary with the age of the body experi- mented on. In very young children cracks are produced in a very short time, sometimes in a few seconds. These generally radiate from the centre of ossification of the bone, and have often a remarkable resemblance to the fissures which are produced during life, especially when, as sometimes happens, they are seated, not exactly at the spot where the flame is applied, but in its neigbbourhood. In the bones of older individuals very different effects are produced ; after the flame has acted for some time, varying from two or three minutes to an hour and a half, according to the age and compactness of the bone, the external table separates and exposes the diploe; at the same time fissures make their appearance in the vitreous plate, which often breaks to pieces. The bones of young subjects also become brittle, so that pressure or a fall on the ground is sufficient to cause fractures of them; in older bones this does not occur. The origin of the injury to the bone in the case which gave rise to these in- vestigations was therefore left undetermined. Dr. Buzzard ('Lancet,'vol. i, 1863, p. 60) gives an account of the appearances found in the bodies of six children who were killed by fire. The examination was made sixty hours after death. The rigor mortis was well marked. The extremities were contracted, and the fingers were firmly clenched. The faces and necks, and in some of the children the hands, were blackened with smoke. The features showed no signs of suffering; one child was found on the floor, but the others were iu their beds, so that there appears not to have been any very active struggle for life. One of the bodies only was opened ; from the appearances found it was concluded that the cause of death was not suffocation, as was previously supposed. The lungs were, indeed, congested, but the blood which they contained was un- usually florid, and all the cavities of the heart were quite empty. The vessels on the surface of the brain appeared to be somewhat congested with pink blood; the sinuses were not well filled ; the blood which they contained, as well as all that was found in the body, was qidte fluid and of a red colour. Extensive vesication existed over the greater part of the body in all these children, and especially on the posterior surface of the trunk and of the extremities. The size of these vesications was very various; many were as