GENJillAL SYSTEM. 61 and it is a common sequel of over-suckling. Fuller considers the disease to be owing to a blood poison, but this, as shown by Dr. Garrod, is not uric acid. The diagnosis is not easy; it chiefly turns on the following points: —The less degree of active pyrexia, the absence of a marked rheumatic odour, the implication of a large number of joints, especially the smaller ones, simultaneously, the persistent character of the inflammation, and its non-tendency to produce disorganization of the joints. "When the disease assumes from the first a chronic form, its features are much more distinctive. The patient is weak and languid, often chilly, but perspires on the slightest exertion ; the urine is pale and clear, and the spirits are depressed. la the more advanced stages of the disorder depression of spirits, constant clammy nioistness of the skin, and the implication of an extraordinary number of joints, are the most striking phenomena. The form also of the articular swelling is such as cannot possibly be confounded with the cllects of rheumatism. It is obviously due, in great measure at least, to enlargement of the extremities of the bones themselves, and not merely to effusion within their capsules or to thickening of the surrounding struc- tures. Great distortion of the fingers often ensues. Fuller sums up the principal facts bearing on the treatment of the disease as follows:— (i) The malady originates in mal-nutrition, resulting not unfrequently from some hereditary infirmity of constitution, but sometimes in con- nexion with cachexia induced by a variety of causes which exhaust the nervous system. (2) That the local charges to which it gives rise are essentially distinct from those produced by active inflammation, and more nearly resemble the results which might be expected from a slow perversion of nutrition ; indeed a similar tendency to the formation of exuberant osseous growths around the joints, while the articular textures within are sufi'ering destruction and decay, is observed in malignant disease of the joints and in various strumous afl'ections of the joints, both of which are connected with a constitutional taint. (3) That whether in an acute or in a chronic form, the malady is one and the same, due to the same cause, connected with a similar failure of tone in the system, and produc- tive of similar changes in the joints ; the only difference being that in the former they occur more rapidly than in the latter. According to these views, treatment must have for its object the sustentation of the general health and the restoration of tone to the system. The local irritation of the joints may be reheved meanwhile, but the remedies which are most serviceable in rheumatism and gout are of little avail in this form of dis- ease. Colchicum, iodide of potassium, guaiacum, hot baths and vapour baths, if prescribed with a view to eradicate the disease, prove mis- chievous rather than beneficial. By depressing and enervating the already feeble patient, they establish the disorder which they were given expressly to get rid of. If these remedies are used at all it should be as alteratives in conjunction with tonics. In the acute stage of the dis- order it may be necessary for a few days to administer alkalies and altera- tive doses of blue pill or calomel, and to restrict the diet to broth or beef- tea ; but when once the true nature of the malady has declared itself, the more successful plan in the majority of cases is, notwithstanding tlie acute character of tlie symptoms, to administer bark or quinine in com- biuaticu witii small doses of alkalies, and, as soon as possible, to interpose