380 EBPORT ON SURGEUY. a flexed position, for an hour or two at a time, hj means of a ribbon or bandage. The treatmeat must be carried out m a similar manner in the other joints. In respect to the hip, however, a good position is all that can generally be achieved. Only in rare cases can mobility be restored. The careful performance of the natural movements should be com- menced five or six days after the reduction of a dislocated elbow, and twelve days after that of the shoulder. Similar treatment must be em- ployed after fractures into the joints, as after fractures with dislocation of the elbow, or comminuted fractures of the head of the humerus. Considerable mobility may sometimes be gained in cases of unreduced luxation. Malgaigne relates the case of a child of two years, who had a dislocation of the upper end of the radius forwards. Reduction could not be effected. He set the mother to work; in two months flexion was complete. In an adult affected with the same dislocation, flexion, though not perfect, became sufficient to allow the patient to shave himself. He has also seen a case of unreduced luxation of the elbow, in which the patient could almost perfectly extend the forearm, and flex it enough to touch his nose with his hand, when the head was slightly inclined. On certain grave evils attending tenotomy, and on a neio metliod oj cm'ing deformities of the foot, by K. Barwell f Med.-Chir. Trans.,' vol. xlv, p. 25).—The author is of opinion that the subcutaneous division of tendons and muscles frequently produces lameness, less apparent, perhaps, but certainly more incurable, than the original disease. " In the purely mechanical treatment of distorted foot from excessive muscular contraction, which the use of the tenotome has superseded, it was found that the mere lateral twist could be overcome without any great difficulty, while the most obstinate distortion was the exaggerated extension of the part. The pes equinus could hardly ever be cured; equina varus was, ccsteris paribus, obstinate in a /iirect proportion to the amount of the extension. That is to say, the difficulty of overcoming a contracted muscle is, other things being equal, in a direct ratio with its size and strength. " At the present time the treatment of pes equinus is, above all others, simple in its performance and happy in its results. The restoration of all those other deformities in which extension mingles is also greatly assisted by annihilating that over-action of the gastrocnemius, to which much of the inward twist of the foot in equtno-varus is attributable. But this last-named deformity is now treated by division of four tendons, at least—the tibialis posticus,'the flexor longus digitorum, the tibialis anti- cus,and the tendoAchillis,and frequently also of the plantar fascia. A very similar treatment ia inflicted on valgus. ' The peronei tendons are to be divided, or together with them those of the extensor longus digitorum and the tendo Achillis, and also those of the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis.' Can we be surprised that after this' there is difficulty in continuing efficient support to the arch of the foot; and even after the arch has been restored, support is required during many months' ? " But, besides the cases which arise from excessive action in one set of muscles, there ar^ others whicl^ have their origin in partial or tot^l