29 METAMOUPHOSIS OF JLm'Kll. (6) Cholosteriue and colourless blood-discs are secreted or efFiised from liif'hly congested and iullanied mucous surfaces. (7) Cholesterme is secreted or effused from the ])eritoueal (serous) membrane in ascites. (S) Cholesterine occurs largely in the fluid of spina bifida tumours. (9) Cholesterine is secreted by the tear-glands. (10) Human milk, previous to birth, is rich in cholesterine. No seroline detected in the experiment made. (11) After the birth of the child, and during nurs- ing, the mammary glands secrete largely cholesterine and serolme. (13) Butter, beef,' and hog suet, contain cholesterine and seroline. (14) The primary forms of tlie crystals of cholesterine appear to be the cube and rhombic prism, and that of seroline the very acute rhombic or rhomboidal prism, though usually appearing as simply acicular. (15) Cholesterine and seroline are largely secreted from the blood by the sudorific glands during the sweating stage of intermittent fever. These glands become important depurative organs in this disease. (16) The kidneys largely secrete cholesterine in intermittent fever. (17) The kidneys secrete cholesterine in varicella. (18) The kidneys secrete cholesterine in diphtheritic conditions. (19) The kidneys largely secrete cholesterine in the disease known as diabetes mellitus. (20) Tlie kidneys secrete cholesterine and seroline in remittent fever. (21) The kidneys largely secrete cholesterine in typhoid fever. (22) Cholesterine is secreted by the sudorific glands in health. A^an Deen observes that, from the connection of the forces external to tlie body, we know that the chemical and physical changes going on within it must be constantly accompanied by electric disturbances, of the exact effects of which, however, we know but little. He has there- fore tried to ascertain how far the chemical changes which animal bodies present can be effected directly by an electrical current, and has sub- mitted various organic fluids to a continuous stream vfiih that view. He now relates especially the result of his experiments on uric acid. A little uric acid (which is ascertained to be free from urea) is mixed up in a large quantity of water, so that a part is dissolved. The apparatus employed consists of two elements of Bunsen's pile, with platinum elec- trodes, which are immersed, being separated by a piece of glass, in the vessel containing the solution. In ten or fifteen minutes, even though the current has been weak, urea can be detected. If warm water bo added, the action becomes more rapid and intense. The quantity of urea formed is in direct relation to the time dui'ing which the current has acted on the uric acid. If the current were continued for a sufli- cieut length of time, he found distinct crystals of urea, the nature of which he confirmed by forming nitrate oi' urea. He believes that car- bonic and oxalic acids are formed with the urea, but is not positive on this point, although he sometimes found crystals resembling those of oxalate of urea. The colour of the urine becomes darker, and its coin- position appears altered. A report is also given of the general results of Van Deeu's experiments. He has obtained by means of the continuous current—i. From albumen, cells resembling cytoid corpuscles, a substance insoluble in M-ater (libriu ?), urea, alhmtoiu, and uric acid (\ ery probably). 2.