REPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 170 walls from tonic rigidity of the muscles. 'Die dropsical effusion takes place rapidly, M'liicli seems to show that other causes are in operation in the production of this result hesides the hepatic obstruction, which would not increase suddenly. Flint does not consider that the size of the liver and spleen can be accurately ascertained merely by percussion. Palpation immediately after tapping aflbrds most information, llsematemesis oc- curred in SIX cases, diarrhoea in eight; both appeared to have an unfavor- able influence. It was found that in about one half the cases in which hydro-peritoneum and oedema of the lower limbs coexist, the latter pre- cedes the former; and that when this is found to be so, it is not to he in- ferred that the dropsy is associated with renal or cardiac disease. He ascribes the ojdcma to pressure of a small amount of effusion on the iliac veins. Icterus was a rare symptom ; it was observed only in seven of the forty-six cases. Anaemia, more or less marked, existed in the great majority of cases. As to the therapeutic management of hydro-peritoneum, the first object being generally to effect the removal or diminution of the peritoneal effusion, cautious trial may be made of diuretics and hydra- gogue cathartics. If these means do not prove promptly efficacious (as they will very rarely do), it is useless to persist in the foruier and in- jurious to continue the latter (hydragogues). Tapping should be resorted to as soon as the abdomen becomes distended, and may be repeated as often as the effusion accumulates sufficiently to produce distension. If the system be not much debilitated, all alcoholic beverages are to be in- terdicted ; and if these seem to be required, or the patient have not sufficient resolution to forego their use, wine and malt liquors should be substituted for spirit. If spirit must be taken, it should be taken diluted, and not on an empty stomach. Tonic remedies (as iron and quinine) are to be prescribed. A nutritious diet is important, and the quantity of liquid ingested should be as much restricted as practicable, the object being to render the blood rich in quality without increase of quantity, avoiding ansemia and hydrajmia. In general terms, the hygienic con- ditions should be as good as possible. If diarrhoea exist, it may be re- lieved by appropriate remedies, in some cases, at least, without injury, if not with benefit. It is dangerous to resort to scarifications to relieve excessive oedema of the genital organs. As to the course and termination, of the forty-six cases which have been analysed, twenty-four are known to have ended fatally. Of the twenty-two non-fatal cases, in eight there had been no improvement when the patients were last heard of. Doubt- less in most, if not all these cases, the termination was fatal. In four cases, when the patients were last heard of, more or less improvement had taken place, but the dropsical affection continued. In ten cases, the dropsy having disappeared or been removed by tapping, the patients were free from the affection when last seen or heard from. The period during which it is known that they continued exempt from dropsy varies from a few weeks to eighteen months. Only one case out of the whole number appears to have actually recovered. The duration of the disease, dating from the commencement of the dropsy, in the fatal cases, varied from six weeks to seventeen months. The average duration in sixteen cases is about five months. Flint concludes that the prognosis is unfavorable in proportion as we have reason to believe that the dropsy is exclusively