852 EEPOUT ON midwifehy, etc. ■which is folded up in a manner so complex as to give the greatest pos- sible extent of surface in the least possible space. 2. The pathoJoc/ij of placenta prwvia* nh.ow^ that the whole of that portion of the placenta (whether entire or in part) which is abnormally implanted tuithin the lower or cervical zone of the uterus is detached or peeled off" during the first stage of labour, tohile the other portion, normalhj seated begond or above the honndarg of this zone, retains its attachment until after the expulsion of the fosius. The active rliythmic contraction of the upper zone, i. e. above the line of spontaneous detachment, with the passive or elastic expansion of the lower zone, clearly explains this. 3. The gradual thinn ing, and at last complete obliteration, of the cervix as labour progresses. Practical observation further convinces the author that the cervical region of the uterus does not contract during a labour pain; the rigidity of which it is then the seat is not evidence of contraction, but the effect of the distending mechanical forces to which it is subjected. If the views above stated be correct, then it is easy to understand why the encroachment of the placenta, even to the slightest degree, within the cervical zone of the uterus, is incompatible with normal labour; why any portion of the placenta thus abnormally seated is detached during that process, and its separation attended by haemorrhage of a character opposite to that which is accidental and^jos^ partum, in being synchronous with uterine contraction, and ceasing during relaxa- tion ; and lastly, ivhy this unavoidable haemorrhage is spontaneously and permanently arrested at a certain period during the progress of labour. The period of spontaneous cessation of the haemorrhage in placenta prsevia has been shown by Dr. Barnes (op. cit., p. 54) to coincide with the period of complete detachment of the placenta fi-om its abnormal adhesion within the cervical zone. The author believes these phenomena to be due to the mechanical dilatation of the cervix, and not, as Dr. Bacues thought, to its con- traction. In cases of placenta prsevia during the first stage of labour, this expansion of the cervical zone of the uterus and detachment of the j)lacenta from it proceed pari passu until the period arrives when the portion of the latter abnormally seated is entirely cast ofi". The sudden arrest of the hsBinorrhage at this period is not due simply to the completion of placental detachment, but to the degree of expansion tvhich the cervical zone has then undergojte; the iitero-placental vessels, previously divided on its inner surface, are by this expansion of its tissues mechanically compressed and occluded in passing through its substance. In other words, the remarkable change of contour—of circular stretching and shortening—which this region of the uterus has then been subjected to, and the disturbance of the natural relations of its tissues, are so extreme, that blood-vessels can no longer permeate its substance as cylindrical canals pervious to the blood. This mechanical squeezing of the divided utei-o-placental vessels con- tinues until the foetus is expelled; passive contraction of the cervix then replaces the previous passive expansion, and in its turn is power- • See Dr. Barnes on the ' Piitbology and Treatment of Placenta Trfcvin.'