135 CIRCULATOUT SYSTEM. ingesta as a consequence of irritation of both phrenic nerves. (7) The occasionally temporary cliaracter of laryngeal symptoms. (8) The dingnostic value of concurrent inflammation of the lungs. (9) The import of difficult expiration, as indicating mechanical obstruction of the trachea. CoNCATO, LuiGl.—Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 303. Records a case of aneurism of the cceliac axis in a male set, 33. The sac at the time of the fatal rupture was as large as the head of a six- mouths foetus. The diagnosis turned on the non-mobiHty of the tumour along with the diaphragm, and therefore on its retroperitoneal situation, on its expanding equally in all directions during systole, on its spherical shape and smooth surface, in which respects it differed from aortic aneurism, aud on the non-retardation of the pulse in the crural arteries. Habershon, S. 0.—On Pulsating and Aneurismal Tumours of the Abdomen. Guy's Hospital Reports, 1863. Habershon groups the symptoms of aneurismal disease in the abdomen under the heads of—(i) the negative signs ; (2) the character of the pain ; (3) the character of the pulsating tumour. As to the first group, the absence of constitutional disturbance is remarkable ; the patients have often the appearance of robust health ; there is generally an absence of the symptoms of organic gastric disease, as well as of effusions into the peritoneal cavity; the urine is generally normal. Vomiting, Habershon thinks, is less frequent than Hodgson considers it, and constipation is not so invariable as Dr. Copland describes it. As to the second group. The pain is of a twofold kind, one being constant and uniform, the other agonising and paroxysmal, the latter appears to be owing to the dis- tension of nerve-filaments spread over the aneurismal sac. The pain follows the course of some of the spinal nerves ; it may be attended with cramps in the legs, numbness in the feet, and in rare cases with para- plegic symptoms. Occasionally the pain has been located in the joints, and the disease has simulated rheumatism. The pain is increased by constipation or flatulent distension. In some cases there is no pain. As to the third group, the pulsation of aneurism is diastolic iu character; it is by no means always equally distinct, for when occurring at the posterior part of the aorta, close to the diaphragm, and when the sac passes beneath the strong lumbar fascia, pulsation is very indistinct at the earlier stages. A bruit may often be heard at the site of the tumour; it may be systolic or double, but is not unfrequently absent. As the sac enlarges, there may be visceral displacement; the liver may be pushed forwards, or the kidney, spleen, or pancreas. The thoracic viscera are also encroached on, and dyspnoea and palpitation are induced. The heart is generally healthy in abdominal aneurism. The disease may terminate fatally by rupture of the sac or by increasing exhaustion. If the blood be effused slowly behind the peritoneum, the pain may be at first relieved, but subsequently a state of semi-syncope takes place. The extravasation may descend as far as the thigh, and simulate psoas abscess. The rupture takes place frequently into the pleura, and most often on the left side. Perforation into the alimentary canal is rare, The