heport on piuctical medicink. 1G8 canula;" we may excite inflammation of the pleura ;" " the operation is useless, because non-tubercular cases will get well without, tubercular will die in spite of it;" to all these Bowditch thinks it suHicieiit to reply that, with the experience he has had, they are simply absurd. Let any man have good instruments and manage them skilfully on proper cases, and he will agree to the truth of his statements. The operation is imperfect, it cannot cure all, but it has relieved many, and in a few instances has been the sole means of saving life. On the other hand, Bowditch believes tliat some have died for the want of it. In the earlier years of his practice he had seen men die with sudden dyspncca, or after months of ob- scure disease, with one pleural cavity filled with serum, and not a particle of other disease ; and, finally, he has seen tubercular phthisis follow after months of debility, from what was simple pleurisy at first. Dr. Wyman's instrument and method exactly supplied a want Bowditch had long felt, and now, with bis experience of their efficiency and safety, Bow- ditch affirms that he is as ready to puncture the chest as to draw a tooth or to vaccinate a child. BiERMER.—On Pneumothorax. Scliweiz. Ztschr., ii, p. loi, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 179. Biermer states that the presence of vocal fremitus is not inconsistent with the existence of pneumothorax. Cardiac murmurs are most likely to be heard when the disease is on the left side, when the quantity of air effused is large, and the pericardium is surrounded with an air-filled space capable of resonance. Biermer believes that pneumothorax may occur without per- foration of the lung, probably from the decomposition of an empyema. The lung in such a case may be perforated from without. In one case he mentions pneumothorax resulted from the breaking up of an hseraorrhagic congestion of the lung in a typhus patient. In this instance the pitch of the metallic sound was higher in the sitting than in the lying position, contrary to what he had previously observed in other cases, {v. Schmidt's •Jahrb.,' vol. 119, p. 35). He accounts for this by remarking that in pyopneumothorax the long axis of the effusion is parallel to that of the body, so that in the horizontal position it is longer than in the vertical. Merbach., Varges' Ztschr., ii, p. 16, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, P- 47- Records two cases of pneumothorax, in which the pitch of the metallic sound was very clearly observed to vary according to the position of the patient, being materially higher when the affected side was uppermost, than in the supine position. With regard to the size of the sounding cavity necessary to produce a metallic tone, Merbach finds that a diameter of four centimetres (one and a half inch) is sufficient. Little, W. S.—Case of Pneumothorax without Perforation, rapidly con- secutive on Simple Hyperacute Pleurisy. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc., Nov., 1863. The patient, Eet. 22, previously in robust health, without any predispo- sition to pulmonary or any other disease, was attacked with severe pleuritis, and died in five days. There was universal exudation of lymph