347 TEMPEEATUEE, ETC., DUEINO THE PUEBPEEAL STATE. Dr. ^y. M. Turubull ('Australian Med. Journ.,' July, 1863), "On tlie Measurement of the Postal Head," gives the general results of the measurement of 50 heads of children horn in Australia. Of the mothers of these children, 28 were Irish, 12 English, 6 Scotch, i German, i a native of Jersey, i a Victorian (Melbourne), and 1 was born in Sydney. Thirty male and twenty female heads were measured. In. Eighths, The mean occipito-frontal diameter was . • 4 slii; The mean bi-parietal 3 4jn J The mean bi-mastoid 3 ; The Victorian, female, gave occipito-frontal .4 7 ; Bi-parietal . . . . . . "35; Bi-mastoid . . . . . . .34, The author contrasts these figures with those of several authorities, and finds that the results of his own measurements, as regards the difierence between the bi-parietal and bi-mastoid diameter, differ some- what from those of Prof, Simpson, the average difference being scarcely iths of an inch. OK TEirPEUATTJBE, ETC., DUEINd THE PUEBPEEAL STATE. Dr. r. "Winckel, of the University of Berlin, has published an inte- resting paper, entitled, "Observations on the Temperature during Labour and the Puerperal State " ('Mon. f. G-eburt.,' Dec, 1862). Although inany valuable observations have been made on the tem- perature of the living body in its normal physiological condition and in febrile diseases, it is remarkable that investigations on the state of the animal heat during and after parturition have been hitherto altogether wanting ; and this is the more singidar, since the correct appreciation of the temperature curves of the puerperal state must be most closely connected with the whole process of labour, as well as with the conse- quent production of heat. When we reflect that, according to Hecker's opinion, the intensity and succession of pains exercise a most important influence upon the increase of temperature soon after labour, may not the pains themselves be measured by the thermometer ? And may we not hope to discover certain differences between normal and abnormal pains, especially as, according to the experiments of Helmholtz, the temperature of a muscle affected by tetanus is perceptibly raised; and according to Beclard, a muscle merely affected by tension developea more heat than when it performs, at the same time, an external me- chanical function ? Prom various reasons, the author always determined the temperature of the vagina before, during, and after labour. A sensitive thermometer was placed in the vagina, so that the globe lay from two to four inches within the canal, and this was kept in position by the thighs, which were pressed against each other. To determine the temperature in the axilla during labour is not only tedious to the physician, but almost in- tolerable to most parturient women, from the irksome position of the arm. In the axilla it is necessary that the thermometer shall remain at least twenty-five minutes; while in the vagina, on the average, nine