853 UTERINE AND EXTRA-UTEKINE PREGNANCY. fully hajmostatic in preventing a recurrence of the ha)mon-hage after the uterus has been emptied. This is the mechanism by which the ante-partuin hffimorrhage in placenta pr£evia, whether partial or central and complete, is spontaneously and permanently arrested. In a paper " On the State of the Internal Surface of the Uterus after Delivery" ('Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,' vol. iv, p. 107), Dr. Matthews Duncan supports the conclusion of William Hunter, that" the decidua is an efflorescence of the internal coat of the uterus itself, and that one stratum of it is alwaifs left upon the uterus after delivery^ Cruveilhier taught that, after delivery, the muscular tissue of the body of the uterus is everywhere laid bare, and Dubois still holds a similar opinion ('Traite Coraplet de I'Art des Accouchements,' torn, i, livr, 2ine, p. 430); but the author believes that at no time during pregnancy, or after it, is the decidua thrown off in mass, or the muscular tissue denuded. As the superficial layers of the decidua gradually become obsolete and caducous during pregnancy, new growth of mucous mem- brane takes place beneath the old; and at whatever time miscarriage may occur, the separated decidua always leaves a layer covering the internal surface of the uterus. In support of this, the author cites the observations of Chisholm ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' Dec, i857),Virchow, ibid.), EobinCMem. del'Acad.Imp. deMed.,' i86i,p. 150)^ and Priestley ('On the Development of the Gravid Uterus,' p. 98). In reference to the pla- cental site, the author's original opinion, that after delivery the persistent layer of mucous membrane is found, as in early pregnancy, to be thicker at the site of the insertion of the placenta than elsewhere, is confirmed by the more recent researches of Eobiu. "With regard to the reproduction of uterine mucous membrane after delivery, or during pregnancy, Robin and Priestley believe that during pregnancy, after the fourth month has passed, the whole mucous membrane of the uterus, or the whole decidua, with the exception of the serotina, is thrown off from the subjacent muscular layer, being displaced by a new mucous lamina, which at that time springs up beneath the old decidua. The author dissents from this view, and believes that at no time, either during pregnancy or after delivery, is the musciUar layer laid bare. SIMTJLTANEOrS TJTERINE AND EXTRA-TJTEEIKE PREGNANCY, PEOCEEDINa TO TUE ETTLL TEEM OF GESTATION. The two following cases are interesting from their extreme rarity • and the recovery of the patient in the second case is the more remark- able, as most, if not all, of the cases on record have ended fatally in the early months of gestation. In the first, recorded by Mr. L. E. Cooke ('Trans, of Obstet. Society of London,' vol. v, p. 144, and ' Lancet' vol. ii, 1863, p. 39), the patient, £et. 39, was taken in her fourth (labour on Dec. 8th, 1862. Her previous labours had been natural, and, with the exception of some difiiculty in standing, from a constant sense of weight in the abdomen, and an inability to lie long upon her back or upon the 23