382 UEPOllT ON MIDWirEllY, ETC. OiBSAUEAN SECTION. Dr. Ludwig AVinckel, on fifteen cases of Ceesarean section ('Mon. f. Gebui-t,' July and October, 1863). Prom the remarkable prevalence of osteomalacia and rachitis in his district, Dr. Wiuckel has performed the Cfesarean section thirteen times in twenty-two years, besides assisting in the operation twice. Of the fifteen cases, the deformity of the pelvis arose from osteomalacia in nine cases, and from rachitis in six. The patients all belonged to the very poorest class, and were most unfavorably situated in every respect; most being dependent upon public charity, and some on parochial relief. Among other difl&culties encountered by the author was the great distance at which many of the patients lived, and hence the most favorable period for operation was often missed, and the after treatment materially afi"ected. With regard to the operation itself, Dr. Winckel thinks that it is essential to its suc- cess that no previous attempts at delivery shall have been made. The most favorable period for operation is the end of the first stage, with the membranes unruptured. About this time the uterus has attained its greatest expansion, its activity is well developed, and the evolution of the child will be easiest. Little or no fear need be entertained of the escape of the liquor amnii into the abdominal cavity as in three of the cases where this occurred no unfavorable result followed. In all but four of the cases, the operation was performed under chloroform, which in no case produced any injurious effect. The author thinks it very important to open the uterus as near the median line as possible, and especially urges the avoidance of the fundus, from the great liability of wounds of this part to gape widely. Protrusion of the intestine is prevented by drawing closely together the corresponding angles of the uterine and abdominal wound; by this simple method, all internal sponging (Von Grraefe) and preliminary sutures (Autenricth and Zang) are avoided. Haemorrhage after the uterus is emptied is most easily checked by immediate compression with the hand, and hence the abdo- minal wound should not be closed until the uterus has firmly con- tracted. By adopting this plan, the author has not lost any patient from haemorrhage. After all hajmorrhage has ceased he closes the abdominal wound by the " sutura cruentaand into the lower angle of the woimd places a narrow strip of linen, soaked in oil; which is directed backwards towards the uterus to favour the discharge of any secretions. He considers that complete closure of the abdominal cavity is very im- portant, but that the presence of a little blood in it is of little or no consequence. After the completion of the bandaging, an examination per vaginam is made to ascertain the condition of the os, and remove any coagula, for the successful issue depends not a little on the uterine secretions all passing by their natural outlet from the beginning. In the after treatment the importance of great cleanliness, frequent change of bandages, except the first bandage (which the author prefers to keep on until the fourth or fifth day), and the internal exhibition of opium are insisted upon. The troublesome and distressing meteorismus is best relieved by