143 C'lllCULATOllY SYSTEM. connected witli alterfltions of the scalp or of the bones of the head. In the thirty-nine cases collected by Lancereaux, caries existed thirty times and otitis interna twenty-four. The sinus adjoining the seat of mischief is always diseased ; the superior longitudinal sinus and the symmetrical blood-channels are rarely affected. The thrombus seldom consists solely of fibrine, but is for the most part softened in its interior, and made up of fibrine, pus, and pseudo-membranous flakes. The walls of the sinus are usually altered, of a brownish or yellowish colour, thickened, easily torn, sometimes destroyed, and manifestly communicating with the carious bones. The dura mater at the seat of disease is grayish or black- ish, adherent with the arachnoid, and covered with false membranes or pus. Purulent meningitis or abscesses in the brain often occur, not only in the vicinity of the obstructed sinus, but also sometimes at a distance, and unconnected with it. The brain is rarely discoloured or softened in patches; the pia mater oedematous or hypersemic, the ventricles filled wih serum or pus. Effusions of blood occur only in exceptional cases, because, by means of the previous inflammation, collateral channels have been formed, which is not the case in non-inflammatory thrombosis. In two thirds of all the cases other organs are also affected. As the result of purulent infection, metastatic abscesses form, hsemorrhagic or purulent infarcta (much oftener in the lungs than in other organs), suppurative pleuritis, enlargement and softening of the liver and spleen ensue. The cerebral symptoms are very varying, and less connected with disturbances of the circulation than with morbid changes in the brain, produced by the disease of the bone or the secondary purulent infection. At first there are signs of irritation, as pain in the head, delirium, cramps, and contractions ; Rubsequently phenomena of pressure ensue, as depression of the mental powers, paralysis of motor and of sensory nerves, stupor, and coma. Yet sometimes there are no symptoms at all when multiple abscesses exist in the brain. In about half of all the cases there are me- tastatic pulmonary abscesses, with pain in the chest, cough, dyspnoea, often diarrhoea, sometimes jaundice, with or without swelling of the liver and spleen, pains in the abdomen and in the limbs, especially in the joints. Heschl.—On Capillar^/ Scemoi-rhages in Melancemia. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prfikt. Heilk., viii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 37. He f^nds that there are two kinds of pigment, one dark brown, which may be free, but is also certainly found in the walls of the vessel; the other, consisting of roundish, pale-bordered pigment-grains, which circulate in the blood, and are probably only altered blood-globules. The chief places where both kinds of pigment are formed are in slighter cases the liver and spleen, in grave also the brain and spinal cord, the capillary system being the especial seat of the change. The cause of the pigment- formation is the spontaneous escape of heematine from the blood-globules. This is the result of malarial infection, and Heschl thinks that the altered hsematine becomes the vehicle of the malaria. Cerebral capillary heemor- 'rhages generally, according to Heschl's researches, proceed from capillary aneurisms, both these vessels and the smaller ramifications being dilated at various spots. No pigmentary accumulations are met with, either in front of or behind the aneurisms. Morbus Brightii, which is present in