BEPOET ON SURGERY. 262 J. C. Solomon, some account of the operations practised in the nine- teenth century ibr the relief of tension of the eyeball, glaucoma, &c. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, i, 450, &c.). Prof. Arlt ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 347). Prof. A. Coccius ('Arch. f. Ophth.,' iv,. part i, p. i). Dr. Magavly, case of iridectomy; no return for two years, &c. (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' iii, 226). Prof. A. vonOiuife, clinical lecture on neuro-rclinitia (' Klin. Monatsbl. f. Augcnh.,' 186.3, P- 3)- i.3tli- Nov., 1862.—Auguste P—, ait. twenty years, unmarried; menstruated since fifteen ; of healthy but somewhat delicate constitution; has suflei-ed during last year from attacks of head- ache, sometimes ending in vomiting; in the intervals there were weeks during which she was entirely free from pain. A more than usually severe attack occurred three weeks ago. • The patient says she moaned many hours for pain, principally seated in the back of the head; then followed repeated severe vomiting, sopor; and, finally, a perfectly sense- less condition, which is said to have lasted for three days. When she recovered her consciousness she was extremely depressed, and could not raise herself in bed, owing to the violence of the pain in her head ; in both arms there were lancinating pains; the left was very weak and could not be completely raised; the corresponding hand could not be perfectly closed. Objects appeared double to the two eyes, cloudy to each eye separately. Some days later she noticed that the left eye squinted; the vision also became somewhat worse. Since then she has had at various times exacerbations of the headache, which, however, have never gone on to insensibility. The paresis of the left arm soon disappeared ; the eyes remain in the same condition. The patient has, however, so far recovered as to be able to walk a quarter of a mile from her home to the hospital. The first thing to be noticed to-day is the squinting position of the left eye. It is at least three lines to the inner side of its normal posi- tion when she is looking straightforwards. As to the mobility, we find, after closing the right eye, that the cornea cannot be moved even as far as the middle line from its abnormal position. This proves that the abducens is completely paralysed; we must admit, there is also some degree of contraction of the internal rectus, for a simple paralysis of the abducens would not be sufiicient to account for either the great convergence when she is looking straightforwards or the imperfect rotation of the cornea towards the middle line. Just as the rectus extermis has lost the power of voluntary contraction, so has the rectus internus lost that of volimtary relaxation. Independently of the paralysis, there is a disturbance of the antagonistic equilibrium, as is so frequently seen, either as a consequence of paralysis or as a coeff'ect of intracranial diseases.* No other muscle is paralysed; the eye can be moved from its abnor- * The contemporaneous development of a contraction of the internal rectus may, indeed, be of pathognomonic importance, just as much as a pni-alysis with con- traction of an extremity. Sucli mixed affections occur, in general, when there exist causes of both pressure and irritation, the latter acting on the antagonistic