GENEUAL PATHOLOGY. 35 kinds of epithelium, appears also as granular nuclei in other tissues, iu tlie ganglia of nerves, in the brain, in the parenchyma of the liver, in the spleen, thyroid and thymus. The same bodies occur in the blood, where they have been termed chyle corpuscles and white cells. They are found in largest quantities in the most recently formed, most quickly growing, and most actively renewed component parts of the animal frame. In short, the most rational interpretation of this form of organic matter is that which represents it as the common material of all tissues in its earliest state of elementary life. And as that which was to have formed epithelium is cast off as the basis of the mucns and pus globule, so that which was to have formed hepatic-parenchyma, nerve, or areolar tissue becomes pus, through some unsuspected transitional stage." The last lecture is taken up chiefly with tlierapeutical considerations and sugges- tions, such as the beneficial effect of a layer of muco-pus or inflamed surfaces as a protection against oxygen and cold, the injurious action of over much cool fresh air on weakly hospital patients, the good results of carbonic acid supplied to mucous membranes and ulcers, &c. TiiAUBE.—Researches on febrile affections. Med. T. and Gaz., August i. Traube seeks to determine the cause of the increase of temperature, which is the very essence of fever, and of which the increased rate of pulsation and respiration are only the consequences. The increase, he thinks, is due to a stronger contraction of the contractile fibre cells of the blood-vessels, and chiefly of those of the smallest arteries. Owing to the contraction of these minute vessels, less blood is carried to the capillaries in a given space of time, and the pressure on their internal surface is also dimiuished. The cooling of the blood is therefore retarded, and at the same time there is less absorption of liquor sanguinis by the tissues. Less water being carried to the superficial strata of the skin and lungs, evaporation from these surfaces is of course diminished, and thus another cause for a lesser cooling of the body is put into play. By this hypothesis all and every symptom of fever may be easily explained. Thus we find that during the rigor, tlie turgor of the skin and of the subcutaneous cellular tissue is dimiuished, the small arteries which are accessible to examination are contracted, the hands, the feet, and the nose are cooler than usual, while the temperature of the blood itself is increased. The cause of the contraction of tlie arteries Traube considers to be the great excitement of the vasomotor nerves occasioned by the amount of the fever poison in the blood. It has been shown by the researches of V. Baren- sprung that the heat is already increased before the rigor sets in, but that it increases much more rapidly during than before the rigor. This may be explained by the circumstance that any poison acts the more intensely upon nervous matter the larger the quantity of it that is accumulated in the blood, and its accumulation in the blood necessarily depends upon the degree of activity in the organs of secretion by which it is eliminated. In the commencement of the febrile paroxysm, tlie quantity of the fever poison in the blood is so small that only a slight contraction of the arteries is thereby caused. The immediate consequence of this latter, however, is a diminished activity of the organs of secretion. At the time the rigor sets in the quantity of the fever poison iu the blood is so con-