LEECHES. 437 complained of. After the use of emetics, the treatment consisted of stimulants; sinapisms were also applied. Dr. Newbigging thinks that the danger arises from the crop remaining in contact with the flesh of the bird, and therefore that this organ ought to be at once removed by those who are concerned in the exportation or sale of this article of food. TENOMOUS EEPTILE3. Dr. Emanuel (' Med. Tim. and Graz.,' 1863, i, p. 449) gives an account of a case of snake-bite, which occurred in India. A quarter of an hour afterwards, a well-defined areola, of a dark-red colour, surrounded the spot bitten, which was just below the right nipple. The patient was very restless and anxious, and was bathed in clammy perspiration. The wound was scarified, and nitric acid was applied to it. Stimulants were given internally, but were at once vomited. A few minutes later, jjtosis of both upper eyelids occurred, and paralyfiis of deglutition soon followed. The skin became still colder and more clammy, and after three quarters of an hour the respiration began to be difficult, infre- quent, and shallow. The patient then became unconscioiis. The pulse only began to fail about ten minutes before death, which took place apparently about an hour and a half after the bite occurred. In 1855 M. Soubeiran published the case of a gentleman, who, having been bitten by a viper in the year 1849, asserted that he still expe- rienced attacks of rather severe pain in the arm bitten, with sensations of lassitude and malaise ; these symptoms recurring every year in the month of April, and lasting a mouth. Dr. Demeiu-at relates (' Gaz. Hebd.,' vol. x, p. 736) the following instance of a similar occurrence. A woman was bitten by a viper in the right forearm on the 28th May, 1824. She sulFered at the time from nausea and vomiting, headache, and chilliness. The arm also became swollen, and a dark-red patch, covered by a large bleb, formed at the spot which was bitten. This aflection extended across the fore- arm, and a large quantity of serosity exuded daily from the furrows between the bullae. Beneath the raised epidermis was a thick false membrane. After eighteen months this membrane became black and dry, and the woman tore it off" in one piece. The skin beneath was red, but soon recovered its healthy appearance. This was in November, 1826. The next year, on May 28th, the eruption returned, and con- tinued till November. These phenomena repeat themselves each year, commencing about the same day. The lassitude, neausea, &c., appear, and last about a week, and then the eruption becomes developed ; this, however, now only remains for about six weeks. In the intervals, all that is visible is a slight white cicatrix, which indicates the seat of the original bite. The earlier part of tliis extraordinary case is given on the authority of the patient alone, and Demeurat does not even say that he has seen the eruption during the present year. The woman is not subject to any other dartrous cutaneous affection. I-EECHES. Dr. J. Beer ('Deutsche Klinik,' 1863, No. 17, p. 170) proposes the