FORMATION OF SYPHILITIC DEPOSITS. 199 powerful poison, acting probably on the blood, producing antemia and tending to a degeneration of the tissues. It must be evident that, either from the nature of the original poison or from some peculiar constitution of the patient, a powerful medicine like mercury may have exerted all its powerful influence, and beyond this have been injurious. If, therefore, a caries of the bone exists, wiiich, corresponding to a true ulceration of the syphilitic kind, exhibits a depression in the centre, with a deposition of new bone around, we know that this will heal in time, and few, I think, will deny that mercury at one time may not be beneficial; but should the caries progress beyond this stage, and lose its chjwacteristics in consequence of some general constitutional dis- turbance, nothing would be more likely to accelerate its progress than mercury. In a word, I consider that in the true syphilitic caries of the bone presently to be described mercury is useful; but if disintegration commences, above all remedies it would he harmful. The two state- ments, then, of its beneficial and injurious effects are not antagonistic ; for although thei'e is no proof that mercury has any especial effect on the bones, yet if a destructive caries already exist, no drug is more likely to extend the process. I cannot, thei-efore, but think that the observa- tion of experienced men like those I have mentioned, as to the too frequent baneful effects of mercury, must be correct. An objection may be raised by some in the denial of such an affection as syphilitic caries, or that this is ever witnessed without the administration of mercury; to this it may be answered that, if reference be made to those severe cases of necrosis of the calvaria where large plates of bone are detached, the opinion is, no doubt, correct; but if it be denied that a caries to a less degree occurs from syphilis alone, the statement must arise from want of experience, for, as I shall presently show, a caries may con- stantly be found in the cranium when the scalp is removed where no disease, or at most a periostitis, was suspected to exist." Mode of formation of syphilitic deposits.—" The character which the deposit assumes in a muscle may be taken as that which prevails more or less in all other organs. In the tongue or in one of the muscles of a limb, a rounded, hard lump may be felt through the integuments, and thus constitutes a tumour. It differs, however, from the ordinary class of tumours, known as new growths, since the latter proceed from a small point or centre, and continually grow on the siu-face, whereby they become circumscribed, and are constituted wholly of the new material which has been thrown out. This is the case in cancer or tubercle. In the syphilitic tumour, however, the exudation appears to have been, in the first place, of a soft and albuminous character, and being poured out in large'^quantity, has infiltrated the tissue; conse- quently, when examined, the lymph and the original structure of the part are found incorporated. At a subsequent period, when this has become hard, if a portion be examined by the microscope, the muscular structure will still be found present in the apparently simple, hard fibrous mass ; and thus it is that, if appropriate remedies be given at an early period, the tissue will be left in its integrity after the adventitious material has been absorbed. Thi.« is everyday experience as regards the tongue. In con.sequenco, also, of the lymph beiug poured out, and not growing from a centre, the diseased mass ia not so circumscribed as a