UEPOllT OX I'llACTlCAL MEDICINE. no 8(nte, noting upon the brain and cardiac nerves, causes the palpitations ; and that the other symptoma arise as a consequence of this peculiar action of the heart and of spaniemia, even up to organic changes in the viscera, heart, and vessels. I'SYCUIATllIK. Clouston, T. S.—Tuberculosis and Insanity. Journ. of Mental Science, April, 1863. The general results to which Clouston's investigations have led him are the following:—(i) Phthisis pulmonalis is much more frequent, as an as- signed cause of death, among the insane than among the general popula- tion, (a) Tubercular deposition is about twice as frequent in the bodies of those dying insane as in the sane. (3) Phthisis pulmonalis is the "assigned cause of death " in only about one half of those in whom tuber- cular deposition is found after death. (4) The brain in the cases of tuberculosis is not so frequently diseased in a marked manner as it is in those dying of other diseases among the insane. In the majority of cases the brain is pale, anaemic, irregularly vascular, with a tendency to soften- ing of the white substance of the fornix and its neighbourhood, and the gray matter of lower specific gravity than in any other cases of insanity. (5) Tubercle is not more frequently found in the nervous centres among the insane than among the sane, and when found it does not in all cases, or even in the majority of them, produce any symptoms, and is not con- nected with any particular form of insanity. (6) Tubercle of the perito- neum is not more frequent among the tubercular insane than among the same class in the sane. In the former it is more frequently associated with melancholia and monomania of suspicion than ordinary tuberculosis of the lungs. (7) The average age at death of the cases of tuberculosis is about three years below the average age at death among the insane generally, and the average age of those in whom much tubercular deposit is found is five years below the general average. (8) The proportion of the tuber- cular who had had previous attacks of insanity is about the same as among the insane generally. (9) There is hereditary predisposition in 7 per cent, more of the cases of tuberculosis than of the insane generally. (10) Monomania of suspicion is the form of insanity in which tubercu- losis is most frequent, and general paralysis stands at the other end of the scale that marks the frequency of tuberculosis in the diflerent forms of insanity ; mania stands ne.\t to general paralysis, and melancholia to mo- nomania of suspicion, while the tendency to dementia in all forms of insanity is greater among the tubercular than among the non-tubercular. A majority of the cases of general paralysis and mania die non-tubercular ; a majority of the cases of melancholia, monomania, and dementia, exhibit proofs of tuberculosis after death. (11) In all the cases of general paralysis who were tubercular the disease had commenced with depres- sion. {12) In a certain number of cases (about one fourth of all those in whom tubercle was found), the insanity is of such a peculiar fixed type that it may be called phthisical mania. In all those cases the phthisis i« developed so soon after the insanity that tubercles must have already formed in the lungs, or a strong tubercular tendency been present, and about to pass into actual tuberculosis when the insanity appeared. We