4.06 UEPOET ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEllIA MKDICA. ■phorii8, produeo similar changes in the liver. He refers to a case of supposed acute yellow atrophy of that organ, fatal in twenty-four hours after the patient's admission into the hospital. On poat-mortem exami- nation, a considerable quantity of arscnious acid was found in the stomach; but at the same time the liver presented the patliological appearances which had been expected. He also cites the fact that ;antimony is given to geese, in order to produce the fatty liver in them {'Woch. d. k. k. Ges. d. A. in Wien,' Nos. 20—27, 186,3). E. Fritz, L. Eanvier, and J. Verliac ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1863, vol. ii, p. 25), give two cases of a similar kind. One is that of a girl, £Et. 25, who took the paste scraped from about sixty lucifer matches, containing phosphorus. Symptoms of imtant poisoning followed, with convulsive attacks, apparently of an hysterical kind. There was no jaundice. She died at the end of seventy-seven hours. At the autopsy the usual ecchymoses'were found beneath the visceral pericardium, in the subpleural tissue, and in the mediastinum. The liver was of normal size, but its tissue was in an advanced state of fatty degeneration, no cells being visible in a thin section. The cortical tubes of the kidneys were filled with fat-granules; this was the case also to a less degree in the pyramids. The Malpighian tufts and capsules, on the other hand, "were perfectly healthy. The other case is that of a woman who died six davs after eating a rsalad in which a large packet of matches had lain for an hour, having fallen in accidentally. In this case an icteric tint of the skin was ob- served. The cells at the periphery of the hepatic lobules were loaded with fat; those in their centres were healthy. The kidneys were less affected than in the first case; the heart, on the contrar^^, was more fatty. The muscular fibres of the tongue also contained fatty granules. "The authors performed some experiments on cats and rabbits, giving them the paste from lucifer iiiatches made into an emulsion with yolk of egg. In animals which died after forty to sixty bours the same changes were observed as have been described in man. Dr. E. Maukopff ('Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1863, Nos. 26—32) gives a fuU account of three cases of phosphorus poisoning which occurred in the clinique of Prof. Frerichs. In one case the paste from the heads of 1000 matches (containing ten or twelve grains of phosphorus), in another three times that quantity, was swallowed. It is remarkable that one of these persons had swallowed the paste from 500^ matches previously without any effects being produced, though in some instances thirty or forty have been known to kill. The liver was very carefully examined in one of these cases. It was much enlarged, and its substance was made up of two portions, the one red, the other of a bright-yellow tint, which were sharply separated from each other. In the yellow parts the hepatic cells were enlarged and rounded, and contained numerous fine, fatty gi'anules, but no globules of fat. The connective tissue between the acini was increased in thickness, and that between the cells was much more distinct than m the healthy organ. This was still more marked in the red portions, and the presence of numerous fatty granules showed t-liat the tissue was begm- cing to undergo retrograde metamorphosis after its rapid growth. These