213 TllAXSFCSIOX IN MIIJTAUV SUllCiKUY. case. Blood, lilce that of the horse, the cow, aud tlie sheep, can be iised. in which the blood-corpuscles are less than the calibre ot human capillaries. The transmission of dvscratic tendencies is much less to be feared ; syphilis is entirely excluded. Denis and Emmerz m the seventeenth century, Blundell, Polli, and Esmarch ('Tear-boolc,' 1862, p. 2^4), have employed sucb blood. . . In the operation, Demme recommends that the vessel for receiving the blood should be made of wood. The veins at the elbow are those into which the blood should be injected. lie opens the vein snb- cutaneously, by means of a canula, with a point like that of a quill pen ; the canula must then be kept in its place by an assistant. Ilia syringe is of glass, and has two apertures at the end ; one with n conical valve opening inwards, admits the blood; the other with a similar valve opening outwards, allows its escape; by this means all danger of the entrance of air is precluded. Such an instrument costs from forty to fifty francs. The quantity of blood injected must vary in different cases ; the practical rule may be to proceed in the first operation, until a sufficient effect has been produced, and for this pur- pose more than four or six ounces will rarely be necessary. Any repe- tition must depend on the degree and duration of the result obtained ; at all events, it must, when necessary, be undertaken before the effect of the first operation has entirely subsided. In wounds of the viscera, it will be best to inject only a small quantity at a time, repeating the operation as often as may be necessary. The same vein can be used for the first repetition ; at a later period it is better to choose a fresh spot. Cases are known, in which four to six transfusions have been performed, and quantities of five or six pounds of blood gradually injected. The effects of transfusion are as follows :—The countenance begins to redden; the eyes become brilliant and more open ; the pupils dilate; the conjunctiva sometimes becomes much congested ; the lips redden ; the heart contracts more energetically, and its pulsations are considerably increased in frequency ; the pulse is fuller and more resistent; the tem- perature often augments several degrees, and is more uniform in different parts of the body; the respirations become deeper and more frequent; dyspnoea is rare, but deserves, unless it at once disappears, the most earnest consideration ; the skin becomes turgesceut and per- spiring ; sometimes there is profuse sweating; spasmodic twitchings of the lower extremities occasionally occur ; in exceptional cases there is involuntary discharge of the urine and freces; diuresis is for the next twenty-four hours not unfrequently increased ; now and then patients speak of a general feeling of warmth and comfort running through them. The longer these phenomena continue, the greater is the hope of perfect success. AVhere they only last a few minutes, little can be expected even from a repetition of the operation. G. Braun, on transfusion in ana?mia (' AVien. Med. Wochensch.,' Veins.—J. Minkiewicz, on operations for varii (' Arch. f. path. Auat.,' XXV, 193). Jfa-nwrrJiriffe.—M. Nclaton, gunshot wound of the hand, &c. (Gaz. d.