P3YCHIATIIIK. 113 (2) Oijiiim should not be administered ^vllen there is fever, plethora, cerebral congestion, considerable derangement of the circulation (as in valvular defects), or severe gastric disorder. (3) The more recent the case, the more favorable it is for opium treatment. (4) It is essential to the favorable action of opium that the psychical disturbance should preponderate over the real and illusory impressions which produce it. (5) Those cases are specially suited for opium in which the disease depends on psychical causes', &c. (6) Where there exists a natural irritable condition of the nervous system. Erienmeyer makes the follow- ing remarks as to the action of opium on different organs. Small doses do not usually disorder the digestive system ; larger ones often do, and then, if this disorder does not cease on the mode of administration being changed, the drug must be omitted. In the great majority the appetite docs not fail or improves; this has been remarkably evident in cases of obstinate abstinence from food, where the patients have begun to take food voluntarily. The general nutrition improves, and the bodily weight increases, sometimes very rapidly. If the weight diminishes, a pause must be made in the treatment, or the dose not increased. If the diminution of weight continues, the drug must be omitted, as it is a sign that the system does not tolerate it. If the weight increases without simultaneous improvement of the psychical state, it indicates that the proper dose has not yet been reached. If under the same circumstances the psychical state deteriorates, the opium must either be omitted or given in combination with other means. On the respiratory organs no marked eflect was produced, except that their action was performed more easily. Tlie heart's action was often increased at the commencement of the treatment, and sometimes, especially in the anaemic, there was considerable palpitation. This was quieted by giving cai-bonate of iron along with opium, or, if it occurred in evident paroxysms, by combining quinine with the opium. The urine during the administration of opium was often diminished in quantity, and always became darker, of greater specific gravity, and richer in uric acid and urates. The sexual organs did not appear affected. The influence on the nervous system was the most remarkable—all neuralgic disorders yielded, hallucinations dimi- nished, and sleep was induced. The mode of administration preferred by Focke is a modification of that pursued by Engelken, which consists in giving opium in gradually increasing doses for several weeks together. Engelken begins with from gr. i to iij, according to the general condition of the patient. If in six hours no effect is observed, the dose is doubled. If again there is no efiect, the dose is again doubled in from six to twelve hours, and so on until gr. x or xij are given for a dose, when the drug is omitted, as a further increase would generally be useless. The amount and the frequency of repetition are regulated by the effects. In case of increased excitement or other suspicious symptoms, the dose is mode- rately increased; if the stomach is disturbed, it is diminished, or morphia is substituted. The addition of digitalis (in powder or acid infusion) to the opium seems to be of advantage by regulating the contraction of the vessels. Erienmeyer pursues a more gradual method of administration. He gives usually gr. i, rarely gr. ij, for a daily dose (evening) ; and if no unfavorable symptoms occur, he adds a morning dose. These are in- 8