309 IlETKNTION OF UlUNE. alarming vesical hjemorrhage. Upon niy arrival I fouud tlie patieut, Avho was sixt^-two years of age, pallid and feeble, ])artly from loss of blood, and pa'rtly from the exhaustion incidental to low irritative fever. On inquiry, I found that my patient, who up to ten days before had enjoyed most excellent health, had had, whilst engaged iu transacting important business, an ui'gent desire to void urine, but was unable to quit the room for that piirpose, and that when able to do so a short time afterwards, he had found himself incapable of micturating. A surgeon was sent for, who attempted to introduce a catheter into the bladder, and the instrument Avas said to haxe j^cssedfor its icJiole length, but no urine was withdrawn. Similar attempts were repeated three or fom* times, but with the same result; and, although the patient was suffering the most intense agony, the case was now considered to be one of " suppression," and linseed meal poultices were applied to the abdomen, whilst the patient was desired to drink plentifully of barley-water and linseed-tea, in order to ^force tJie water.'' On the following day the urine was passed in small quantities at short intervals, the swelling and agony remaining unrelieved, and the patient became much exhausted and passed into a typhoid condition. After having been allowed to remain Avith a distended bladder/b;* six dai/s, another surgeon was con- sulted, who passed a catheter without difficulty, and removed three 2nnts of bloodi/ tirine. This gave great relief, and the patient rallied; but the urine, which was drawn oS' only twice a day, still contained a large quantity of blood, which was unchecked by gallic acid,'tincture of iron, and turpentine in two minim doses, and I was therefore summoned. On my arriviil I at once introduced a gum-elastic catheter, and removed a pint of urine loaded with blood; and having then washed the bladder out with cold water, I fastened the catheter iu, and directed the patient to evacuate the bladder every four hours. Turpentine, iix ten minim doses, in mucilage, Avas given internally, and repeated every four hours, and produced an almost immediate effect upon the haemorrhage. In consequence of the coagulum which remained iu the bladder, the eye of 'the catheter became blocked during the night, and the patient was tmable to relieve himself. I therefore removed the instrument, and introduced one with a large eye, through v/hich the urine, containing now but little blood, flowed freely. On the following day the urine was nearly natural, and the patient somewhat improved in general con- dition ; and the reports subsequently forwarded to me state that the appetite has returned, the bowels are regular, and the uriue is free from blood, but that the patient has as yet no poiuer of expulsion, and is still obliged to have the catheter employed. Iron and quinine are now being administered, and the urine is withdrawn three times duriug the day, and twice in the night. The patient is able to take a daily airing in his carriage; but it remains to be seen whether he will recover the power over his bladder." " Such cases may be termed aciUe, but there are others of a more chronic character in which mistakes of a similar kind are continually occurring. I mean those iu wliich there is frequency of micturition of some months' duration, accompanied by great general irritation of the system with excessive thirst, and iu which the fact that the patient