435 OEGANIC CHEMICAL PEODUCTS. Vomiting came on almost directly, but before ten minutes bad elajDsed the cbild was in a state of stupor, witb contracted pupils. Tbe stomacb- pump was bad recoiu'se to, but tbe severity of tbe symptoms increased. Tbe pulse became imperceptible, tbe respirations were only six in tbe minute, and tbe surface of tbe body began to feel cold. Artificial res- piration was tben employed, and a pint of bot coifee, witb tbree dracbms of Sp. iEtb. Nitr., were injected into tbe stomacb. Tbis caused sligbt im- provement. A constant stream of cold water was tben directed on to tbe head, witb almost magical effect. Tbe pulse became quicker and stronger, tbe respirations became natural, and tbe girl began to rub ber face witb bar band. Cessation of tbe affusion was followed by a return of tbe comatose condition. Even ten bours after tbe poison was taken tbere was a relapse, and tbe doucbe was again employed. Tbe efiects did not completely pass off for fifty-four boiu's. " Cbloroformic anodyne" appears to contain a great deal of opium, some cbloroform, and a small quantity of prussic acid. Sjpiritus JEtlieris Nitrici.—Tbe 'Lancet' (1863,vol.ii, p. 573) gives a report of tbe state of tbis remedy as sold in London, especially witb reference to tbe presence in it of metbylated spirit. Tbe best tests for tbis impurity appear to be tbe senses of taste and smell. A few di'ops of tbe diluted and undiluted spirit should be placed on tbe tongue and well tasted, when tbe tar-bke, unpleasant, and even nauseous fiavour of tbe metbylated spirit will be detected, should it be present. Tbe smell is best recognised by pouring a little of tbe suspected spirit upon a wine-glassful of bot water. " Ure's test," which consists in tbe employ- ment of caustic potash, was found to be fallacious, owing to tbe presence of aldehyde, and Mr. Eeynolds's test of chloride of mercury and caustic potass is also liable to mislead. A large proportion of the thirty-two samples examined bad tbe smell and taste of methylated spirit, and two only of them reached the pbarmacopoeial standard of strength. Under the patent of M. Eschwege, it is now possible to purify wood-spirit itseH", so that it is not distinguishable from ordinary alcohol by either smell or taste. The ' Pharm. Journ.' (Dec, 1863, p. 239) consoles itself witb the remark that the impure specimens of Sp. ^th. Nitr. came from the shops of chemists in tbe low neighbourhoods at tbe east end of London. It is also observed that tbe specific gravity of this remedy is not a sufficient test as to tbe quantity of water contained in it, for the nitrous ether has itself a specific gravity of '947, and an increase in tbe proportion of that compound would, therefore, raise tbe density of the liquid. Sp. Ammonice Aromaticus. — The Analytical Sanitary Commission has investigated the quality of the commercial specimens of tbis sub- stance also ('Lancet,' ii, 1863, p. 660). The strength of it was found to be very variable, an ounce of the weakest preparation examined not containing more ammonia than a drachm of the strongest. The quantity of spirit was also very difterent in different specimens. Tbe specific gravity varied between -834 and -933. Many of the samples contained metbylated spirit. One specimen only was free from tbe presence of caustic ammonia. All the others contained it, witb more or less of tbe carbonate; in many tliere were only traces of the carbonate to be