248 EEPOUT ON SURGERY. striclion of the throat; the only way in which he could sleep was in a senii-roeiimbent position, or upon his stoinach. Tor more than tliree months, ho said, his slec]) had been disturbed and unrefreshing, from mental anxiety ; and now he thonj^ht ' sleep liad almost forsaken hiin.' He went to bed with a fixed impression that lie would not get an hour's sleep, and arose in the morning, nervous, fretful, irritable, and morbidly anxious. Ho had gone to bed night after night o£ late, rising in the moi-ning Avorse than on the previous day. He gave this as the reason for sitting up in his present emaciated condition. " The treatment consisted of nutritious, unstimulating food, in small quantities and at short intervals; a full dose of morphia at night to produce sleep, digitalis to steady the heart, and tincture of sesquichloride of iron to improve the condition of the blood. " He was under this treatment for a month, and at the end of Decem- ber, 1858, went to the west coast for a month, without medicine, and returned perfectly well. The improvement in the symptoms followed the order of their appearance—better nights, less irritability of the stomach, more perfect digestion, diminished excitement of the heart, gradual loss of bruit, sinking of the eyes, and diminished goitre. "When he left for the sea-side, there still remained a little of the goitre, but it was quite gone on his return. Up to the present time (over four years) he has enjoyed perfect health, and passed a critical examination in London in connection with a life assurance society." T. Laycock, on the cerebro-spiual origin and the diagnosis of the pro- trusion of the eyeballs termed anajmic (' Bdinb. Med. Journ.,' viii, 681) ; •ind on the causes and nature of the vascular kind of bronchocele, and of the pulsations and palpitations termed ansemic (ib., ix, i). J. W. Begbie (ib., ix, 198). Case of the occurrence of all three symptoms— exoplithalmus, bronchocele, and heart affection, in a single night, during which the patient's father died ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 389). Three cases ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' iv, 343)- MUSCLES OF THE EYE. Dr. H. D. Noyes records a case in which he brought forward the in- sertion of one of the recti, as first performed by Guerin, and since more widely promulgated by A. von Graefe ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1862, ii, 350). Twelve years previously the patient had a converging strabis- mus, which, owing to an operation, had been converted into the di- A'ergent form. " To correct the deformity, simple division of the external rectus was evidently inadequate, and the following operation was under- taken. The aim of the operation was to give to the divided muscle an attachment to a part of the globe nearer to the cornea, so as to enable it to act at a greater mechanical advantage. The loss of power is due to two causes—first, that the muscle has been shortened, and, secondly, that its insertion has slipped backwards. The first fault is irremediable ; the way in which the second impairs the power of the muscle is evident on a moment's reflection. The normal insertion of the ocular muscles is a little in front of the equator of the globe. So long as its attach- ment continues to be at or in front of the equator, a muscle actmg alone