Jllil'OllT ON PllACTICAL MKDICINK. 40 house, r.nd then to those wlio came in contact with them, until eighteen persons were nflected. Smolcr relates a case where fever to ail appcarAnce originated independently of any infection. The death rate lias varied from II or 12 per cent, to 25 per cent. According to Leijert the mortality from typhus has heen least (relatively) when it has been least prevalent, Fiedler ('Arch. d. Ileillc.,' iii, 2, 1862) observed the reverse, liuhl and Qtiiquerez ('(Esterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. lleilic, vii, 32, 1861) agree in tlie ob.servation that the occurrence of the greater number of deaths in the early period of typhus is a sign that the disease is on the increase; and, on tiie other hand, that the transfer of the chief mortality to the later period indi- cates that the epidemic is declining. As regards the influence of the season of the year, Ulrich, Lebert, and Fiedler agree pretty nearly that fever is least prevalent in February, April, and May, and most in August, September, and October. Fiedler states that at Dresden fever prevailed as much in the two last months of the year as in October, which was not the case at Zurich or .Berlin. Tlie mortality is not proportionate to the frequency of the dis- ease, mostly inverse. The influence of sex shows itself in the greater fre- quency of fever among males, the number of male patients being in one year thrice that of females: this, however, is not constant, the number being sometimes more numerous. Lebert, Ulrich, and Fiedler agree that the mortality is generally somewhat greater among females than among males, though in some years the reverse is the case. As to age, Lebert reports that the greatest number of cases occurred from 21st to 2 5th year, the next greatest from the 26th to 30th, and the next between the 16th and 20th. The number of attacks after 40 was far greater at Zurich than at Paris. One case occuiTed between the 71st and yjth years. As to the influence of age upon mortality Ulrich states that the greatest absolute though the smallest relative mortality occurred between 40 and 50. Lebert found the smallest relative mortality to occur in the period from 22 to 25, which exhibited the greatest frequency of disease. After 40 the mortality was nearly i in 3 of all cases, between 16 and 40 it ■was I in 5. Fiedler observed great diftereuces between years immediately succeeding each other as to the mortality. The highest absolute mor- tality was in tlie 24th year of life (20 per cent.), in the 25th it was only 2'6 per cent., in the 28th it was ig'6, in the 22nd i2'3. In childhood the absolute and relative mortality was small, in advanced life it was absolutely small, but relatively high. The influence of social position does not appear to he marked. (c) Si/mj^toms, complications,—Ebers remarks that in some instances the invasion of the disorder is marked by a peculiar morbid sensation, ■which is followed by several days of apparent health before the disease actually commences. Rlieumatoid pains, depression, occasional angina, and hypersesthesia of [the surface are noticed by several as the earliest symptoms. Ebers remarks of the exanthematic fever at Breslau that the excessive elevation of the temperature, audits permanency, were a kind of Iiarometer of the danger of the disease. Rapid fall of the temperature was almost always a sign of failing vital power. Lebert found the rate of (he pulse generally to accord with the temperature ; when the Litter fell below the normal figure, the pulse declined to 52 or 56. Great frequency of a dicrotous pulse usually coincided with great elevation of temperature.