390 liKPOllT ON SUUGEEY, firom the soft parts of the abdomen changing then- relative position to the bones. Thus, iu puncture of the bladder, if you trust to the outward appearance of the soft parts, you may fancy yourself above the symphysis, when, owing to the low position of the mens veneris, you are below. Unless you searcli for the upper margin of the pubis with the finger, you will be liable to fall into this error, and to puncture below the symphysis. M._ Nelaton saw this occur in the days of Jime. A young non-commissioned officer was struck by a ball in the upper part of the thigh; it passed obliquely through the perina)um, and escaped by the opposite gluteal region. The young man was tormented with complete retention of urine. M. Nelaton saw him, and after examina- tion, directed the interne to puncture the bladder. The latter was deceived by the sinking of the soft parts in the hypogastric region ; fancying he was above, when he was really below the symphysis, he punctured, and, as you may readily imagine, no urine flowed. M. Nelaton saw another example of this error in the case of an old man of eighty-two ; he had for many years been very stout, and thus the tissues in the pubic region had become so depressed and flaccid, that the punc- ture was made below the symphysis. Another symptom, which seemed somewhat incompatible with our diagnosis, was the form of the swelling. It was not globular or shaped like a chestnut {marronnee), as is usually the case with a femoral rup- ture ; it was not reflected upwards and outwards, as the latter so often is ; on the other hand, it formed a swelling obliquely downwards and inwards, and simulated to a certain degree, as we have already said, an ingTiinal hernia. There is a symptom which is generally well marked, and which is of great service in a doubtful case of hernia; this symptom, which is in practice too much neglected, and which yet is really of importance, is drawn from the point of attachment of the prolapsed bowel to the rest of the viscera contained in the abdomen. The, point of union is the pedicle of the hernia; it may, as in the present case, be felt through the parietes of the abdomen in the form of a roimded, cylindrical cord. Although the belly was much distended in our patient, we could feel this cord, and trace it to the hernial ring. The general condition of the woman was bad; the strangulation was of nine days' duration; the pulse was small; there was some cyanosis ; the abdomen Avas distended with gas; she had incessant vomiting; the pains extended over the whole abdomen. These were symptoms of advanced peritonitis. What ought to be the surgeon's conduct iu such a case ? Should he wait for death ? We thought not; there was still a faint shadow of hope; we operated. The operation was performed three quarters of an hour after the patient's admission into the hospital. It was tolerably simple—an incision through the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue; as Ave proceeded, we saw a sero-sanguineous fluid, somewliat re- sembling that contained in the sac, escape at each incision with the bistoury. The presence of this fluid was owmg to the strangulation having existed for a considerable period; it might possibly have given rise to the belief that the sac had been opened, all the more because, atter dividing the subcutaneous tissues, layer by layer, a rounded mass, muck