283 PAUACENTESIS THOIIACIS. fistulous opening in tlie side. I also remove tlie eifusion in all chronic cases where it -will not disappear under a reasonable amount of treat- ment, for I have noticed that persons sometimes die suddenly of dyspnoea, with one side of the chest partly filled with fluid. I never wait for pointing, nor necessarily insert the trocar at any such point when existing, choosing rather the most depending part of the chest ; and dislike or refuse to tap in all cases where the intercostals are depressed, never feeling certain of seeing anything flow away. " Where to operate.—Tlie most appropriate spot for puncture is between the ninth and tenth ribs, in a line let fall from the lower angle of the scapula. I have, however, tapped under the axilla, and even in the breast, when the case seemed to requii-e it. But in selecting the precise intercostal space of the back, I usually choose one about an inch and a half higher than the line on a level with the lowest point at which the respiratory murmur can be heard in the healthy lung of the opposite pleural cavity.* " The operation.—The instrument I employ is a small trocar, a little larger than the ordinary exploring trocars of our pocket-cases of instruments. When possible, the patient should be seated sideways on a chair, or astride with his face towards the back of it. Having pressed the forefinger of the left hand deeply into the intercostal space, I plunge the instrument through at the depressed part, keeping as near as j^ossible to the upper edge of the lower of the two ribs, to avoid injuring the larger branches of the intercostal arteries, which run along their inferior borders. I never incise the skin before the introduction of the trocar [for I find when it, with its canula, will pass readily through buckskin or chamois—as it should do when well made —its insertion will be easy, and cause but little pain.—Ed.]. Having withdrawn the stilette, see tbat the passage of the fluid is not impeded in any way through the tube, employing a blunt probe to ascertain the cause and to remove any obstruction; then, by means of a piece of very flexible tubing and a double-valve syringe, similar to that of a stomach-pump [an ordinary bivalve enema syringe might be employed for want of better—En.], draw away the efiusion slowly, until, by distress, or a sense of dragging, distension, or pain, the lung gives warning that it has undergone as much expansion as it can endure with safety. Having then removed the instrument, the wound will be found to contract, and close so completely that no lint or dressing of any kind will afterwards be required. * In a former paper in the same journal, new series, vol. xxiii, p. 348, Dr. Bowditch says—" It is evident that it will be wise to introduce the trocar as low down as possible, consistently with the safety of important organs within the chest or abdomen. The spot usually chosen by Dr. Wyinan and myself is just under the lower angle of the scapula, between the seventh and eighth, or eighth and ninth ribs. Tliis point is chosen, first, because it is easily reached; second, the muscles covering the thorax at this part are thin; thu-d, the intercostal vessels are as small there as elsewhere—possibly they may be smaller. The intercostal space is sufficiently large to easily admit of the passage of the trocar. With a reasonable degree of caution ■in our diagnosis, and if, when penetrating low down, we raise the point of the instru- ment instead of depressing it, we shall avoid the diaphragm, liver, or spleen." Fur- ther details and a drawing of the suction-pump may be found nt the same place,