llKliUISITJiS or A UOOU STUMl'. Aooordiiig to J. T. Hodgen ('Arnev. Med. Tim.,' 1863,11, 169), am- l)iitati()U iu cases of gunshot fractures of the femur or tibia has been pretty generally abandoned by American military surgeons, except wlien joints, blood-vessels, or nerves, are implicated. M. Legouest rejects primary amputation at the hip ('Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' v, 1^7); he has collected thirty cases, in which the operation was imme- diately performed—not one recovered; and Baron Larrey (ib., 369) lays it down as an almost absolute principle, that in cases of gunshot fracture of the superior third of tlie femur, preservation ot" the limb should be attempted, amputation, when necessary, being pertormed at a late period, as in a case of organic disease, and not immediately after the receipt of the injury. 21)'. Spence ('Edinb.'Med. Journ.,' viii, 955) gives the following as the requisites of a good stump :—the bone must be well covered with soft parts, and must not be adherent to, or bear directly upon, the cicatrix ; the nerves must have been so cut as not to become involved in the cicatrix, or attached to the end of the bone, and so deeply covered as to obviate the bad effects produced on their cut extremities by pressure or atmospheric changes. Such a stump would bear a con- siderable amount of direct pressure without becoming painful, irritable, or liable to ulceration. Mr. Spence has found, by examination and dissection of stumps, that whilst the muscular substance retained in llap operations certainly diminished in bulk, it did not in many cases do so to such an extent as might have been expected from a p)>'iori reasoning, but that, in almost every case, the muscular fibre, though frccjuently altered and condensed into a fibroid substance, could be traced as a thick layer under the skin ; as to neuromata, they are equally present in all forms of stumps, and even when the nerves are deeply covered ; in fact, a greater or less enlargement of the end of the nerve is a necessary result of its division. When such swellings are subjected to irritation from pressure, or from atmospheric influences, by being too near the surface of the stump, or from being involved in the cicatrix, tliey appear to increase in size, and occasion excessively painful symp- toms ; however, whether the stump had been painful or not, neuromata were found invariably pi-esent. Examination of stumps formed by the circular method had satisfied Mr. Spence of its inferiority to the flap ; for almost all the circular stumps were extremely conical and tender, the bone adhering to the cicatrix, which was not unfrequently idcerated. At the same time many of the stumps formed by flap amputations were very defective, especially those where the operation had been performed by lateral flaps in the lower third of the thigh. In these the bone pro- jected towards, and generally adhered to, the cicatrix at the anterior ])oint of transfixion, whilst the soft parts, forming the flaps, hung back from it. In various cases the soft parts were so retracted as to cause the stumps to resemble those obtained by the circular method; whilst in others the flaps seemed to have turned' in upon themselves, leaving a deep cleft corresponding to the cicatrix, which was closely attached to the bone. Still, on the whole, the stumps obtained by the flap were decidedly better than those which resulted from the circular method and their defects did not appear due to causes inherent in the mode of o[)erating.