328 IIKVOUT ON SURGERY. delicate females, tbab there is a clanger of artliritis ensuing. Not that this is a reason for refusing tliem tlie benefits to be derived from treat- ment, only the surgeon must not endeavour to gain too much at once; he must reiterate the exercises, so as gradually to restore perfect mobility. He must act iu the same cautious manner in cases of some standing. He need not fear the delay; he may let, when necessary, five or fcix days pass between tlie sittings, without running danger of losing what he has gained. When the surgeon's object is simply to place the limb in a better position, machines are generally unnecessary. As in such cases it is only necessary to flex or extend, the best plan is to do all at once. The patient is placed under chloroform; then the upper segment of the limb being firmly fixed, the surgeon seizes the inferior, and endeavours, by a single, sudden eifort, to bring tlie part ijito the desired position. The inflammation, which inevitably follows, is usually of no great im- portance ; to check it the limb should be immobilised. It may be noted, as an important practical remark, that the extension or flexion must be carried to a somewhat greater extent than what is intended to be the final position ; thus if a limb is to be ultimately flexed at a right angle, force the position to an acute angle, for a certain amount of secondary- extension is sure to occur. Treatment hy machines.—The utility of machines does not consist in their making extensive movements, but in their efi'ecting certain move- ments exactly to the degree intended. Such graduated changes can only te obtained by means of them ; the hand flexes or extends a joint by sudden, intermittent efforts, and thus to obtain a flexion of two degrees produces one of four; it is only by mechanical apparatus that the force employed can be calculated and regulated. The fundamental rule in the use of machines is never to yo too far, and never to go hade. It must always be remembered that acute arthritis will ensue if force is em- ployed beyond a certain degree. Bonnet's insj;ruments, iu which the force employed cannot be accurately estimated, are accordingly con- sidered by Malgaigne quite useless. The changes at fijst produced in the position of the limb must be slight; it is only at a later pei'iod, when the surgeon has learned the degree of reaction of the parts, that he may .dare to effect more extensive motions. The treatment is not concluded when the limb has been flexed or extended by the use of an instrument; the same motions must then be repeated with the hand for some time, before the patient will recoyer sufficient power to effect them himself Thiis, after flexing the forearm on the arm to an angle of 45° by means of the machine, it will take some time before the same degree can be reached by the use of the hand alone, without the employment of excessive force, and a little longer before the patient can voluntarily perform the same motion. We may take, as an example of this treatment, a case in which the elbow has been affected with arthritis, and where for thirty days it has continued inflamed and motionless. Numerous careful and reiterated efforts will be required to restore mobility in such a case; for not only is the resistance great owing to plastic exudation and newly-formed fibrous tissue, but the surgeon cannot, without great risk, exceed the