llEPOltT OX PRACTICAL JIEDICINE. those which are cspecinlly mentioned. In the great majority of cases, however, death ensues from external or internal bleeding and anaemia, and life is seldom jjrolonged beyond the twcntietli year. Out of 153 males, 19 only survived this period. As to the quality of tiie blood in the lioemophilic, repeated observation has shown that the blood at first shows 110 deficiency in fibrinc, but coagulates well, and that it is not until a later period that its solids diminish and it becomes hydramiic. The same is the case with the red corpuscles, though, after a long continuance of the bleeding, both are relatively diminished. The morbid anatomy of this disorder has hitherto taught us very little of its nature. Tlie only morbid condition which seems to have been frequently observed is a thinness of the arterial coats, a kind of atrophy. This, liowever, only applies to the largervessels. In a fatal case described by Virchow the minute arteries and capillaries, as well as the nerves, presented nothing abnormal on micro- scopic examination. V. Biirenspruug states the same of a case of fatal gastric hicmorrhnge. Recent inquiries show that there are but i female to II male hfcmophilic. Grandidier, however, affirms that the disease is not uncommon in the female sex, only that it is partially and incompletely developed. Though the disease occurs at the earliest periods of life, it seems that spontaneous hsiemorrhage from the umbilical cord is but seldom owing to this cause, as in 202 cases of this kind there were only 14 hfemophilics. Seven Jewish children of liEcmorrhagic tendency had no heemorrhage on separation of the umbilical cord, but considerable on the performance of circumcision. The period of the first dentition is that when the tendency most often makes its first appearance, but it has been delayed as late as the twenty-second year. The hEsmophilic have for the most part a soft, white, translucent skin, with manifestly developed veins, light hair, and blue eyes; black hair and dark eyes are much more rare. There is nothing remarkable in the secretions. Both town and country residents, both rich and poor, are liable to the hsemorrhagic tendency, and it appears that an abundant diet, consisting mostly of nitrogenous articles, affords no immunity. Hsemophilic parents appear to be uncommonly fruitful, 21 families producing together 204 children, which gives about 9? children to each family. As to the origin and propagation of haemo- philia, it appears that among 98 families the disease appeared for the first time in 46 with the patient whose history is given, while in 52 hereditary transmission from parents, grand-parents, or their sisters, was made out. Among the congenital cases the parents or grand-parents were quiie healthy 20 times, while in 26 they suffered from other diseases, as gout, scrofula, syphilis, pulmonary or cardiac affections. It seems that the female has mucli more to do with the origin of the disease than the male parent, inasmuch as in cases where the fatlier has been married several times one wife has produced healthy and the other hoemophilic children. It also appears that violent mental emotions during lactation have not only caused the child suckled at that time to become hemophilic, but the future progeny also. Grandidier has no complete theory of the disease to offer, but thinks that disordered innervation of the vessels and altered tone of the capillaries play an important part, giving rise to congestion and stasis, and probably also to local active determinations of blood. Increased action of the heart, which frequently occurs, he explains by the increased