191 SEPTIC JEMI A. tissue, it excites local irritation; whether it possibly induces inflamma- tion or coagulation in the veins and lymphatics, or whether, after the manner of other poisonous materials, it mixes with the blood, and so exei'ts both general and local injurious actions. Such cases as belong to surgery may be distributed under four heads : 1. Traumatic sepsis (purely traumatic, primary traumatic sepsis). 2. Poisoning by putrid matter (secondary infection, sell-infection), 3. Infection by the poison of dead human beings and similar matters (infected wounds). 4. The specific zymotic septic process, hospital gangrene, malig- nant pustule, noma, &c. I. Traumatic sepsis.—Such are cases of severe injury, of comminuted fractures Avith extravasations of blood, where the dead parts at once pass into decomposition, and where the patient is attacked in a few days, before suppuration has commenced, by an acute, and often fatal, fever, a fever which can scarcely be otherwise explained than by the absorption of products of putrefaction. A fracture of the arm or leg, in which the injury is far from appearing so important, may be compli- cated with such internal destructions of tissue that the patient dies even in twenty-four to forty-eight hours, from the putrid decomposition and the absorption of putrid products. In many cases the septic poisoning of the blood occurs in combination with septic emphysema of the part ('Tear-book,' 1862, pp. 216-18) and septic infiltration of the cellular tissue. This condition was first described by Maisonneuve in 1853, under the title of " gangrene foudroyante." Billroth has given cases in which the putrid decomposition was not so raj^id—a process of exudation, purulent exudation, indeed, being at the time in process. ('Tear-book,' 1862, p. 197.) The cases of this description form a tran- sition to those of poisoning by decomposing pus, and are clearly the most common. They must, however, be included in the category of traumatic sepsis, according to the principle a potiori Jit dcnominatio, according to the logical requirement that the essential and principal should be placed first, provided their course is such as to justify the presumption that the poisoning depends, not only on the decomposition of the pus, but also on the putridity of the effused blood and necrotic portions of tissue. Roser has seen cases which appear to show the possibility of a septic metastasis to the sacral region. He supposea that, perhaps, in septic poisoning of the blood, a local affection or metastasis is most liable to occur in such parts as are most dependent— in the mass of cases the sacral region. He is not disinclined to consider many cases of gangrenous bed-sore as metastatic aft'ections. He con- cludes that— 1. There exists a septic poisoning of the blood by primary trau- matic gangrene. 2. There exists a septic infiltration of the cellular tissue by primary traumatic decomposing products. 3. There exist cases of secondary septica;mia in which the decom- position of the tissues and the putrefaction of extravasated blood are the principal phenomena, and the formation or decomposition of pus only accessory.