IIKPORT ON SURGEliy. 292 grenous portion ; you may now readily uuderstand the comparison witli the colour of a dead leaf. After the operation M. Nclatou did not follow his usual custom of prescribing a purgative ; the patient had, however, four full evacuations. An immense blister, covering the whole of the abdomen, was ordered. It must be remembered tiiat at the time of the operation the patient presented the symptoms of general peritonitis; now it is known that blistering is of service in serous inflammations ; it is thus used in pleurisy, and there appears to be no reason why it should not be used also in peritonitis—both membranes are of the same nature, and both are subject to similar inflammations. M. Nelaton has twice employed this method of treatment with success in his private practice. One case was that of a young man who was operated for hernia, and who presented symptoms of acute peritonitis; he perfectly recovered after the application of a large blister. To-day—yesterday the operation was.performed—the patient is no worse ; she is perhaps a little better ; she complains less of her belly, although the pains are deep-seated. She frequently complains of being unable to make water—a result, perhaps, of the blister; she has been relieved by the use of the catheter. The pulse is by no means bad ; it is of tolerable size, and beats io8 or no times in the minute. An un- favorable symptom is the violent thirst; it is a sign of serious peri- toneal inflammation. The expression of countenance still continues, though less marked. The nose is not so violet and cold as yesterday. This morning, when the hernia was examined, it was seen that the edges of the skin had almost entirely united, and that there was con- siderable swelling, so much, indeed, that the rupture might be supposed to have again escaped, a circumstance, which, by-the-bye, would not add much to the danger. "We considered that the swelling was owing to the effusion of bloody serum. We immediately separated the lips of the wound, and allowed a large quantity of such fluid, mixed with buhbles of gas, to escape. The reproduction o^ this fluid in the hernial sac may be observed every day. It may, unless allowed to discharge externally, infiltrate the walls of the abdomen, and pass upwards to the back of the trunk, determining terrible attacks of diffuse phlegmon. This liquid, which is effused by an inflammable peritoneal sac, is more deleterious than even urine ; both produce gangrene of the infiltrated tissues and frightful ravages. AVe therefore hastened, m our case, to evacuate the promiscuous fluid, which might give rise to—(i) the acutest peritonitis, if it passed into the abdominal cavity; and (2) in- filtration of the superficial layers of the perinajum, followed by difluse phlegmon. The patient died two days later; the post-mortem showed general peritonitis. Mr. "Wood, on ruptures, inguinal, crural, &c. (Loud., Davies). C. W. Streubel, summary of recent publications ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 118, p. 81). C. Vines, on the treatment of congenital hernia (' Lane.,' 1862, ii, 699). Mr. Jordan, on inversion ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1862, i, 609). M. Philipeaux, on cauterization of the omentum after the opera- tion (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1862, p. 365). Dr. Sayre, on cutting at once to the sac ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1862, ii, 192). Cases of inflamed sac