«5i3 iiEPoiiT ON phactical medicine. siderable that it may exert its full effect upon tlie vasomotor system of Jierves, and the maximum of contraction of the blood-vessels is thus pro- duced. If this maximum has been attained, tiie temperature of the blood must necessarily be rapidly increased, as the cooling of the body is nearly reduced to its minimum. Striking rigors are only observed if there is a sudden increase of heat, as in ordinary pneumonia ; wliile in such acute diseases where the temperature is slowly augmented, as in typhoid fever, these are only shiverings. Thirst, anorexia, weak digestion, and consti- pation, Traube explains in the same way, viz., Jjy assuming a contraction of the minute arteries, and a deficient supply of blood to the mucous membrane. Beale, Lionel, M.B., F.R.S.— Observations on the nature of certain healthy and morbid changes, and on counter-irritation, Brit. Med. J., Feb. 21, 28. Beale argues in opposition to Chambers, that the idea of counter- irritation clearly is, not to establish one disease for another, but to increase the action of one or more tissues, with the view of reducing the increased action which is already going on in other and more important tissues or organs. He thinks that counter-irritation by a blister in a case of chronic bronchial catarrh may act beneficially in two ways. First, by exciting through the afferent nerves in the skin an impression by which the afferent nerves distributed to the vessels of the mucous membrane are caused to contract, and thus a diminution in the supply of blood results; the direct consequence of this diminished supply of pabulum being a slower multiplication of the pus, and imperfectly formed epithelial cells. In consequence of the increased flow of blood to the skin, the young cells of the cuticle grow and multiply at the expense of the pabu- lum, which would otherwise have gone to feed the structures formed on the surface of the mucous membrane. Secondly, such an increased action being established in the deep layers of the epidermis, crude materials in the blood, which would otherwise have been taken up by the pus on the mucous membrane are appropriated here. Beale, Lionel, M.B., F.R.S.—Brit. Med. J., Oct. 20. Ar"-ues that in very severe cases of inflammatory disease the administration of very large quantities of alcohol does good, not by exciting or stimulating to increased action, but by moderating actions already excessive. Alcohol docs not act as a food, but it diminishes the rate at which vital changes are proceeding, by causing cells which were living too fast to live more slowly, and by producing the death of many. When absorbed by the blood it renders the albuminous matters less fluid, reduces their permeating pro- perty, and interferes with the disintegration of blood corpuscles. ScHOTT —On Calcareous Metastasis. Wochenbl. Ztsclir. d. k. k. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte in Wien, Oct. 15th, 1862 ; Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. 1863. . Schott describes the case of a child 1-Jr year old, who died m consequence of being run over, four days after the'accident. On examination of the body besides extravasation of blood into the abdominal cavity, the vertebra;