EEPOET ON SURGERY. 274 There were i8i cases out of a total of 3217 operations performed at Lyon from 1850 to i860. In Sweden the disease appears to be very rare. Eossander, principal surgeon to the large hospital in Stockholm, says, "Trom iS ^Jo to 1859, out of a total of 2200 operations, 17 were performed on 16 per- sons—12 men and 4 women, for ' cancer of the face ;' all the patients were peasants from the neighbourhood of the city. The disease seems to bo yet rarer in the mountains than in the lowlands. The re- maining hospitals of Sweden are small, so that the total number of operations performed in them can scarcely amount to more than that performed in Stockholm." There was thus] at Lyon i operation for cancer of the lip in 17; at Stockholm i in 137, or, deducting cases of cancer of other parts of the face, about i in 200 operations. According to a letter from Dr. L. Benjamin in Hamburg, only two cases occurred there from 18^4 to 1857. The disease appears to be very rare in Prussia. On the other hand, according to Melzer, 453 cases of cancer, and among them 142 cases of cancer of the lip, occurred in a total of 27800 patients, in sixty-two years, at the hospital of Laibach. Switzerland.—According to Vogt, Socin, and Jung, the disease is tolerably common at Bern and Zurich, rare at Basle, where in thirty- eight years only three cases were observed at the siu'gical clinic. According to Bertin, there were 33 cases of cancer of the lip in 895 operations performed at MontpeUier from i8_5i to 1857. According to Berrut, three cases of cancer of the lower lip occmred amongst 1607 surgical cases at Marseilles in 1857. Dr. Lindermayer, who has practised at Athens since the liberation of Greece, had observed only two cases up to i860, and other medical men had only seen a few rare cases in the country districts. Dr. P. Paure, who for years has been travelling in Asia Minor, Syria, Palestine, Mesopotamia, Egypt, and Nubia, found every kind of cancer scarcely known in those regions. Dr. H. Barth, the celebrated traveller in Africa, observed only a single case of cancer (in a man), although consiilted by innumerable patients. In the tribe of the Beni-Meluk, on the Niger, some days' joui"ney west of Tombuctu, he met, however, with an affection of the skin somewhat resembling cancer of the lip ; the ti-ibe was not, indeed, purely African, but composed of a mixture of Berbers and Arabs. Livingstone and Lantre never met with this disease among the aborigines of Southern Africa. The latter, who passed many years among the Bassutos, to the north of Cape Colony, never saw a single case of cancer of the face, an affection which is by no means rare among the white inhabitants of Cape Colony. So far as is at present known, cancer of the lip occurs most frequently in central Europe, a region of which, however, we have the fullest knowledge. Tobacco has been repeatedly blamed as a potent cause, and especially smoking short pipes. In 179^ S. T. Sommering ('De morb. vas. absorb., p. 109) considered that the pressure of the pipe on the lower hp caused