llEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 126 tinction between spontaneous lioemorrlinges from the umbilical cord in newly born children and hoemophilia, the following points have been ascertained.—(i) Tliese hcemorrhages are rare in hcemophilic children. (z) In these hscmorrhages the causa mali appears to consist in a disor- dered crasis of the blood, whereas in hsemophilia the tone of the vessels is more at fault. (3) These hiiimorrhages are characterised by the fre- ([uent occurrence of jaundice and organic disease of the liver. (4) Hereditary transmission is of rare occurrence in the umbilical iisemor- rhages, whereas it is common in the hajmophilic. In the latter affection, also, the mothers are commonly free, and only act as conductors of the tendency, but in the former they exhibit manifestations of disease of the blood. ( 5) The females are much oftener affected in umbilical haemor- rhage than in haemophilia. (6) No subsequent tendency to hsemorrbage is noticed in those who recover from the umbilical. Stauk.—On Cardiac Cyanosis. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 177. Out of 46 recorded cases which he examined, he found that in 37 there were 22 males and 15 females. The most frequent anomaly was contrac- tion of the pulmonary artery (13 out of 42) ; the rarest, fusion of the aorta and pulmonary artery (i case). Patients in whom only the fora- men ovale was open reached the most advanced age. Contraction and obliteration of the pulmonary artery is not so dangerous to life, according to Stark's figures, as was previously supposed. The greatest proportion {\) of the cases died before the end of the third year, one tenth between the ages of 3 and 14, and one sixth between those of 11 and 18. Two cases afforded evidence that the power of procreation existed. The tem- perature was not always lowered, in 4 it was normal. Phthisis pulmo- nalis was a frequent complication ; it was present in 7 out of 42 cases. Stabk, Th.—Arch, der Heilk., iv, p. 47, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 45. Reports four cases of chlorosis in which there was evident dilatation of the heart, which again disappeared as recovery took place under the use of iron. Wales, Ph., M.D.—Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., July, 1863. Records the case of a man dying with arachnitis and cerebritis, in whom there was found a very large circumscribed aneurism of the walls of the left ventricle. It almost appeared as if the heart was double. The aneurismal pouch had a capacity of four ounces, and was enclosed in a hard calcareous case, except at its orifice and apex. Ltjithler, W.—Insufficiency of the Mitral Valve, without Organic Change. Wurt. Corr. Bl., xxxii, 20, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 40. Luithler records a case just like one of Bristowe's (see 'Year-book,' 1862, p. 183), in which there was general dilatation of the heart, undue length of the cordse tendiute, and, as trials on the dead body showed, insufficiency of the valve, which, however, had undergone no morbid change. Luithler believes that in cases of this kind there must be not only general dilatation of the heart, but especially of the ventricle con* cerned, with thinning of its walls,