llEPORT ON SURGEEY. 183 Dr. Eodet (of Lyons) lias found so much benefit from a mixture of citric acid and perchloride of iron in botli Him])lo and indurated chancre, that he believes it will destroy, not only the syphilitic virus, but all any foul smell, changes fetid or sanious into laudable pus, stimulates the secreting surface, promotes cicatrization, and destroys the conta- gious property of secretions: its action on the surface of a wound is powerful and rapid. The author concludes with some remarks on the importance of appropriate diet and general treatment.* M. Demarquay has imported into France the use of permanganate of potash (' Gaz. des H6p.,' 1863, iro, 257, 31^). The solution used by him contains two grammes of the permanganate to 1000 grammes of water, and has answered admirably in cases of cutaneous and uterine cancer, of deep abscesses, of wounds, of ozjena, of fetid pei'spiration from the feet, and to remove the odour of the hands after post-mortem examinations. According to the experiments of M. Sicard, it is a most efficient preventive of the putrid fermentation of pus. Its advantages are that it can be readily applied, that it does not irritate the wound, that it does not soil or burn the dressings, and that it is cheap in price. Subcidaneous injection of morplda after operation, before restoration of consciousness after chloroform ('Lancet,' 1863,!, 148).—Mr. Paget, in a case of amputation, after dressing the stump, injected a solution of a third of a grain of morphia, with the view of inducing freedom from pain, and some refreshing sleep after a return to consciousness. This practice has been in use for some time at the Middlesex Hospital, and has afforded much comfort, especially after important and painful operations. From a quarter to a third of a grain, or even half a grain of morphia, may be employed according to circumstances. E. S. F. Arnold urges the use of opium in managing the shock and reaction of surgical injuries ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, i, 231). Ac- cording to him, administered after severe operations, it Ijoth rouses the energies of the prostrated sj^stem, restores and controls the circulation, soothes pain, allays irritation, and thus places the patient in the best * Iodine may also be employed as a vapour. G. H. Hoft'mann gives the following description of a plan ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1861, ii, 201), " which has contributed much towards the comfort of the patients in the wards, and lias had the effect, in several instances, of preventing the spread of ' sloughing ulceration,' which is sometimes im- ported into the hospital. The discharges fi-ora strumous wounds are often very offen- sive, poisoning the air, even for the patient himself. Condy's fluid, solution of per- manganate of potash, forms an admirable lotion, as it does not irritate the surface of wounds when dilute ; but it must be renewed frequently. Offensive emanations will occur during the night. "We may prevent these from extending to the harm of the patient and his neighbours by placing under the bed-clothes, and again under the l)eds, boxes with pervious lids, and containing a little iodine. The iodine vapour de- composes the gaseous compounds of hydrogen; and the hydriodic acid resulting is not prejudicial to the patient, like the analogous compounds of chlorine." ("On the Disinfection of B ooms, Clothing, Drains, &c.," ' Third Beport of the Medical Officer pf the Priv^Y Council,' p. 39.)