70 HEPORT on IMIACTIOAT, IIRDICINE. cceding from n contraoLlng muscle than from one at rest, (ii) The nfttunil electricity whicli is present in living motor nerve during tlie state of inaction is almost or altogether absent in llie state of action. This is shown by an experiment in wiiicli a portion of a frog's sciatic nerve is arranged within tiie circuit of a galvanometer, in consequence of which the needle is deflected, say to 60. Wlien spasm is set up, by poisoning the animal with strychnia, the needle returns towards o, say to 5, or nearer still. (12) The state of action in a muscle is accom- panied by the development of instantaneous currents of high-tension electricity. (13) The state of action in a motor nerve is accompanied by the development of similar currents. Experiments proving these pro- positions are performed by causing a long piece of nerve attached to muscle to rest upon the muscle or nerve of a similarly prepared limb, ■when contractions ensue in the first muscle on causing the second to act through stimulation of its nerve. (14) It is probable that the instan- taneous currents of electricity which are developed when a motor nerve passes from a state of inaction into that of action are analogous to the discharges of a torpedo. (15) It is possible that both ordinary muscular contraction and rigor mortis may both be dependent upon the disappear- ance of the natural electricity which is present in living muscle during the stage of inaction. (16) It is possible that the instantaneous electrical currents of high tension which are developed when muscle or motor nerve passes out of the state of inaction into that of action may produce contraction by disturbing and deranging that molecular constitution of the muscle without which the natural electricity of the muscle cannot exist. (17) There is reason to believe that the disappearance of natural electricity, when a living muscle passes from the state of inaction into that of action, and the contemporaneous development of instantaneous elec- trical currents of high tension, may stand to each other reciprocally in the relation of cause and effect, and that the correlation may furnish the means of harmonising the apparent contradictions in the discoveries of Matteucci and Du Bois Reymond with respect to the electrical phenomena of muscle during ordinary contraction. (HI) On the part which artifi- cial electricity has to play in the process of muscular motion.—(18) There is reason to believe that continuous electrical currents of low tension exercise a directly paralysing influence upon the part of a motor nerve which is included in the circuit. If the nerve of a rheoscopic limb be included in a galvanic circuit, it is impossible to produce contractions in the muscles by acting upon that part of the nerve which lies between the poles. Also if the spinal cord of a rabbit be included in the circuit of a voltaic battery, the part between the poles may be cut, pricked, torn, or even electrified, without giving rise either to pain or convulsion. So also the spasms produced by strychnia can be arrested in a frog by sub- jecting the spinal cord of the animal to the action of a continuous galvanic current. The same has been found true in a case of tetanus in the liuman subject. In all these instances the paralysing influence of the continuous current is quite irrespective of its direction. (19) There is reason to believe that instantaneous currents of high tension are the only forms of artificial electricity which have the power of producing muscular contraction. (20) There is reason to beheve that a motor nerve or muscle cannot be thrown into a state of action by artificial electricity