HEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 138 local thickenings are seen of the ■walla of these very vessels, 11. Embolism of (he arteries of the systemic circulation.—The results of Panum's experiments, in which wax, mercury or air, was injected into one crural artery in the direction contrary to the current, were very various, and exhibited pathological phenomena which have been referred toother causes. They are as follows:—(2^) Paralysis of the posterior part of the body, and red softening of the lower half of the spinal cord. Vomiting and diarrhoea, with enormous tension and repletion of the whole portal-vein system, with formation of ulcers in the stomach (corresponding to the round gastric ulcer), and also of ulcers in the intestines, which especially involved Peyer's patches, like those of enteric fever. Septic alteration of the blood, in consequence of partial gangrenous destruction of the intestinal mucous membrane. Tetanus, terminating fatally in two hours, without discernible alteration of the spinal cord, induced by embolism of the arteries of the brain and of the medulla oblongata. Eczema of the lips, gums, and muzzle, from lodging of air- vesicles in the small arteries of these parts. Loss of hair and purpuric ecchymoses of the skin. Violent rheumatoid pains, gradually increasing palsy of the muscles, and wasting of the muscular tissue. Mingling of albumen and blood with the urine, and morbid changes in the kidneys, in consequence of emboli in the vasa afferentia, as well as in the Malpighian tufts. Pathological alteration of the liver, partly fi-om small extravasations from the portal vein, partly by the formation of firm, tumid, yellow and red-spotted patches of the hepatic tissue, in which the hepatic cells were partially dissolved, and contained yellow pigment. Secondai-y cap- sulating of some mercurial globules, which had probably remained a long while in the heart, with coagula of blood. Infiltration, inflammation, and aneurismatic dilatation of some arteries where mercurial globules, thus capsulated, had stuck. (27) The enormous hypertemia and increase of blood pressure which is set up in the portal system proves that the peristaltic action of the intestinal villi and of the intestinal tube, which is paralysed by the embolism, is an essential motor force of the portal circulation. The same may be said of interruption of the current in the hepatic artery. (28) The early appearance of the nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea, makes it probable that they are produced directly by the hypersemia, rather than from the putrid infection of the blood.—The next part of the report deals with the anatomical conditions of thrombosis and embolia. Notta denies that irritation of the inner and middle coats of arteries ever produces a plastic exudation, and would consequently exclude arteritis from the causes of thrombosis. Lancereaux, on the other hand, has found actual membranous exudations on the inner surface of arteries, especially almost constantly among drunkards in the pulmonary artery and its main branches, and once also in a syphilitic person in the carotid. These membranes have contained, not only elements of con- nective tissue, nuclei, cells and fibres, but even capillaries. When a thrombus is occasioned, as often happens, by atheromatous disease, it takes the shape of the diseased vessel, but is not closely adherent to its walls ; its ends are conical ; when recent, it is brownish, firm, fibrous, laminated; in a more advanced state it is yellowish gray, granular, soft, and even diffluent in the middle, but always contains altered blood-