REPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA XilCDICA. 41G is fortunate tbat wc possess so delicate au indication of the presence of n poison tlie eliects of wliich appear as yet to be obscure. MINEUAL WATEBS. M. Petrequin (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 484) recommends the method of repeated congelation for the purpose of concentrating mineral waters. EbuUitiou in the open air has the disadvantage of destroying the organic substance (baregine, glairine), to which part of the efficacy of these remedies is ascribed; it also drives off the gases contained in them, and probably alters the composition of the salts ; and even evaporation in vacuo expels the gases. Congelation is, therefore, to be preferred to either of these methods. OBGANIC SUBSTANCES. Fii/nijfi. M. Humbert (' Joiirn. de Chim. Med.,' vol. ix, p. 263) observed the effects produced by partaking of a fungus in a family of four persons. Two children vomited freely, and recovered. The father fell into a state of profound coma; tetanic symptoms and paralysis of deglutition ■were also observed; but recovery took place under the use of strong injections of coffee. The mother suffered from symptoms of cerebral excitement, among which was incessant loquacity. The coffee did her no good; but the application of leeches, on the following day, led to her restoration to health. Dr. Mitchell ('Brit. Med. Joum.,' 1863, No. 130, p. 672) records two cases of poisoning by mushrooms. In the one the following effects were produced. A burning sensation, with constriction, extended down the pharynx; the abdomen was much distended; the stomach was irri- table, but no actual vomiting occurred ; there was slight purging; the sight was dim, and all the objects seen had a Blue coloiu". In the other case drowsiness and giddiness were the only symptoms observed. Both patients recovered after the administration of an emetic, but nervous twitchings remained for some days. The Amanita muscaria and the Boletus luridus were found among some of the mushrooms which had not been eaten. M. Lafargue ('Journ. de Chim. Med.,' 1863, vol. ix, p. 74) relates three cases of poisoning by fungi, the Agariciis hiliostis being probably the species which produced the symptoms. About ten hours after eating them, one of the patients, a man aged thirty-eight years, was seized with pains in the epigastrium, extending over the abdomen. He also complained of nausea and vomiting, and he was purged. Collapse came on, and he died in thirty-eight houi-s after the first appearance of the effects of the poison. It was observed tbat, seventeen hours after death, decomposition had already set in, as showm by the fetid odour of the body. The case occurred, however, in the second week of September. The wife of this man was attacked with similar symjjtoms, but re- covered. Another man, who had eaten only one of the tungi, suffered from vomiting and diarrhoea for some days.