KKPOllT ON PnACTICAL MEDICINE. 7G by pressing upon tlic nbilominal aorta, and diminished when tlie blood resumes its course in them on removal of the pressure, taUies well with the conclusions which have been drawn respecting the modus operandi of blood in muscular motion; and so also does the companion fact that these peristaltic movements are increased when the venous blood is pre- vented from escaping from the coats of the alimentary canal by pressing upon the vena porta, and diminished when the removal of this pressure allows the vessels of these parts at once to rid themselves of black blood, and to receive a new supply of red blood. (69) The fact that the peri- staltic movements of the alimentary canal are quickened by passing wea/c electric shocks through the spinal cord or great sympathetic is in strict harmony with, and leads to the same conclusion as, the fact that the heart and the ordinary vessels exhibit an increased disposition to contraction under analogous circumstances (v. 61 and 6.3). (70) The fact that the peristaltic movements are arrested in the state which is opposed to con- traction by passing strong electric sliocks through the spinal cord or great sympathetic is in strict harmony with, and leads to the same conclusion as, the fact that the heart and the ordinary vessels pass into a state of re- laxation under analogous circumstances (v. 62 and 64). (71) When the thoracic muscles pass out of the state of relaxation in which they are during expiration into the state of contraction in which they are during inspiration, what appears to happen is this—that the oxygen of the in- spired air has made an "impression" upon the pneumogastic and other afferent nerves, and that this impression has brought about contraction through the instrumentality of the natural electricity of the nervous and muscular systems in the way already pointed out, (v. 47): when the in- spiratory contractions come to an end, what appears to happen is this— that the disappearance of the oxygen of the air in the process of respira- tion has removed the cause of the impression which led to the contractions, and so left the muscles free to return to their natural state of relaxation. In these three forms of rhythmical muscular motion, therefore, there is nothing to contradict, and much to confirm, the previous conclusions re- specting ordinary muscular motion. In a word, there is every reason to believe that the theory which is applicable to ordinary muscular motion, is also applicable to rhythmical muscular action, and that without any fresh assumption it will even give an insight into the mystery of the rhythm itself. (72) In the case of a sentient as of a motor nerve, the nerve loses electricity when it passes from the state of inaction into that of action. When a rheoscopic limb covered with its skin has its nerve connected with the circuit of a galvanometer, the deflexion of the needle which is pro- duced by the nerve current is much diminished by bringing the limb into contact with hot water. (73) In an electrical point of view, the action of a sentient nerve which produces sensation is in every respect the same as the action of a motor nerve which produces muscular contraction. Experiment shows that pain and convulsion are produced by the same electrical con- ditions—they come together and go together. (74) There is reason to believe that the same conclusionsare necessary with respect to the action of a sentient nerve in sensation as those which are necessary with respect to the action of a motor nerve in the production of muscular contraction. The action of a sentient nerve may have to be explained, not by assuming that a