UESPIRATOKY SYSTEM. 151 by means of a spring, which passes round the head, and, through the intervention of a rather broad pad, presses just below the occipital protu- berance. Ey means of this arrangement, the hands are left free for making topical applications. Merkel, L.—Report on recent Contributions to Laryngoscopy. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 313. Thirty-four papers are cited in this collection, some of which have been noticed on former occasions. A variety of instruments are described wliicli have been invented for different purposes, as fixing the laryn- geal mirror, the tongue, or the soft palate, raising the epiglottis, &c. Various proceedings respecting local treatment are noticed, of which we need only mention Fournie's plan for inhaling finely pulverized substances, such as alum, tannin, acetate of lead, nitrate of silver. He uses a box provided with two glas^tubes, through one of whicli the patient inspires forcibly, while the other passes down to a saucer containing the medi- cated powder, which is placed at the bottom of the box. Examination with the laryngoscope shows that the dust which is raised by the current of the air enters the larynx. Semeleder's remarks on rhinoscopy are given at some length. Under the head of pathology and treatment we have some observations by Lewin respecting the epiglottis, the posterior wall of the larynx, and the arytenoid processes. He shows that the epiglottis is raised when a high note is sounded, and depressed when the reverse is the case ; if it is much depressed, the tone is muffled. When one endea- vours to give to the letter a during phonation a deep, hollow timbre, the epiglottis recedes from the anterior angle of the glottis as far as possible, its free border arches itself to a convexity directed towards the glottis, so that in this way a vault is formed over the laryngeal part of the pharynx (fangrohr). The vocal undulations are thus thrown back by the epi- glottis, and do not freely reach the buccal cavity, as they do when the epiglottis is vertical. The formation of these deep sounds, if they are prolonged for any length of time, is a laborious effort, because the con- cave curvature of the epiglottis is produced by very thin muscular fasci- culi lying iu the aryteno-epiglottic fold. Persons, especially preachers, who are compelled by their calling to make often such exertions of their voice, are liable to suffer from morbid afiections of the parts concerned. Lewin found in such preachers a remarkably great lowering of the free part of the epiglottis, and a considerable thickening of the aryteno-epi- glottic ligaments, as the cause of this altered position. Without the size of the epiglottis having at all increased, its anterior part was often so much lowered that even during the utterance of high tones it was not materially raised, and had assumed the shape of a bowl, while the aryteno-epiglottic folds were considerably thickened and of a livid colour, and the vocal cords were swollen and red. Follicular enlargements and small ulcera- I tions were found at the anterior attachment of the aryteno-epiglottic I folds and in other parts also. Elevation of the epiglottis by artificial means diminished the hoarseness, and the use of local remedies which rendered it more movable had the same effect. Tlie mucous membrane of the posterior wall of the larynx is poor in elastic fibre, but contains inumerous grape-like glands projecting from its deep surface, During