RKPORT ON SUllCJ£lt,Y. treats the first form by applying a pencil connected with the induction apparatus for one or two niinutcH to the different anesthetic parts, ■whilst the other and moistened conduction is placed in the patient's hand. After six or eight minutes, the pencil is changed for a moistened conductor, which is applied to the perinajum, and in very obstinate cases to the fossa navicularis. He obtained good results in the hyper- SDsthetic form from the constant current. Such a current, derived from sixteen or twenty Daniell's elements, was directed from the middle of the spine to the sacrum for three or four minutes, and then the positive pole was applied to the periua3um, and the negative to the glans or back of the penis. He has treated 8.3 cases. Of these, 59 belong to the anaesthetic form; 35 were cured, and 24 were unsuccessful. There were 24 hypertesthetic cases; of these, 13 were treated with the induction current; 3 were cured, 10 were unsuccessful: and 11 were treated with the constant current; 7 were cm*ed, and 4 were unsuccessful. Thus, out of 83 cases, 45 were treated with, and 38 without, success. M. Hieguet, case of aspermatism (Liege, anal, in ' Arch. Gen.,' 1862, ii, 384). B. Schulz, on aspermatism ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1862, pp. 769, 787). C. Schmitt, case of aspermatism (' Wiirzb. Zeitschr.,' iii, 361). T. B. Curling, on sterility in. man (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 99). Tabes Dorsalis.—E. Meryon (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 204). Prof. Eemak ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1862, p. 478). Urethal Fever.—E. Marx has published an essay on intermittent febrile attacks, and on certain inflammations which occui' after opera- tions on the urethra (pp. 124, Paris, Gr. Bailliere, 1861). Under the tead of inflammations, he describes the pyaemic localizations in the joints, muscles, and serous cavities, which not very imfrequentiy follow injuries of the urethra. The term urethal fever should be restricted to certain peculiar inter- mittent attacks of fever, of which the author describes two varieties— the slight and the severe. In the former the rigor is generally sudden, though occasionally it is preceded by such symptoms as loss of appetite or lassitude ; its duration varies from a few minutes to an hour ; should it continue for a longer period, and especially if it is more than usuallj^ intense, it is probably the precursor of a severe attack. The skin is shrivelled; the nails, the tip of the nose, and the lips are pale; the breathing is oppressed; the pulse is rapid and sometimes irregular; the thirst is intense; the sensation of cold is most distressing. Then follows a hot stage, of which, however, the intensity bears no propor- tion to that of the rigor ; thus excessive heat may follow a slight rigor, and vice versa. At this time the breathing beomes more free and the anxiety disappears ; the pvdse becomes full, frequent, and more regular ; the face becomes red, the thirst continues great, the head is painful, and the eyes are much congested. After a time the pulse becomes weaker and slower; the thirst diminishes ; sweating commences; the patient becomes calm, and falls asleep ; the pulse, however, remams somewhat rapid, till even the following morning. Such attacks generally commence from three to four hours after the operation,