MUSCULAR SYSTEAt. 25 irritability partially returned, and that on washing it out with a solution of • per cent, of common salt the restoration was still more perfect. (2)' That tho presence of blood in itself does not diminish, but in- creases, the duration of contractility. It was probable, therefore, that the presence of the products of muscular decomposition in the blood prevented its contraction on stimulus. To put this idea to the test, he injected into the blood-vessels an infusion of the flesh of the animal, which would contain the elements resulting from such decompo- sition. The irritability of the aftected muscles, however, was not diminished by this means, though by immersing them in the fluid they were rapidly rendered unexcitable. On removing the lymph from the lymphatics before injecting the infusion, a difierent result ensued; the contractility of the muscle was rapidly destroyed. The eff"ect of the injection, therefore, is neutralized. This neutralization depends upon the alkalinitj^ of the lymph, by Avhich the acid of the infusion is neutralized, for a solution of lactic acid had the same effect as the infusion of flesh ; and Eanke found that after thus destroying the irri- tability of a muscle it was partially restored by injecting a solution of the carbonate of soda, although the solution of carbonate of soda by itself diminished the irritability. After the irritability of a muscle had been destroyed by the infusion of flesh or lactic acid, it almost entirely reciu-red on the removal of the fluid. The completely fatigued muscle, accordingly, is not in a condition of exhaustion, strictly speaking. It possesses in itself still the conditions for the production of force, as, indeed, is evident when we consider the very slight changes which even the strongest tetanus can evoke; and to renew its excitability it suflices for a time to remove or neutralize its debris. Eanke's experiments were made chiefly on frogs, but the same results were given, though less strikingly, on rabbits. They are expressly confined to the muscles; the nerves having diflTerent relations. Meyerstein and Thiry confirm Solger's statement, that generally the act of contraction of a muscle is accompanied by a diminution of its temperature; subsequently a rise of temperature sets in. They sought to test, by experiments on the gastrocnemius of a frog, and by the use of a very delicate thermo-electric apparatus, whether this rise of tem- perature is strictly proportional to the mechanical work eff'ected by the contraction, and also whether it diff'ered when the muscle exerted traction against a heavy weight without moving it, or lifted a lighter one. Their results are, that the development of heat is a genuine measure of the work performed, alike in either fomn of action. The cooling bears no relation to the subsequent heat; the former comes on immediately, while the latter requires time for its development, and may continue to increase for a few seconds after the muscle has retui'ned to rest. The cooling was more considerable in weak muscles, and was often inversely related to the amount of the weight raised. The authors are of opinion that the sudden cooling is to be ascribed to an alteration of the muscle's specific capacity for heat, corresponding with the alteration of its molecular condition. The heat, on the other hand, corresponds to the chemical change within the muscle, and thus confirms the anticipation