26 EEPOHT ON PHYSIOLOGY. that the amount of this ohango corresponds to the force exerted. The greatest amount of heat developed amounted too'.37» ^- (o-666 Fahr.)! IX. METAMOnpnOSIS OF MATTER. YoiT, C.—On the Oi/cle of Mlrof/en in the Animal Organism. Sitzungs- berichte der Kouigl. Acad, der Wissenschaften ?,u Munchen, 186^^, vol. i, p. 69. ' ' ScnuLTZEN, O. —A Contribution to the Doctrine of the Metamorphosis of Matter durinr/ Inanition. Eeichert und Du Bois Eeyinond's Archiv, No. i, 1863. Speck, C.—Further Researches on the efect of Bodily Exertion upon the Human Orr/anism. Archiv fiir Wissenschafdiche lleilkunde, vi, p. 161. (I-Ieule und Pfeufer, vol. xix, p. 389.) SA-IiiSBUET, J. H.—Eapcriments connected loith the Biscoveri/ of Choles- terine and SeroUne as Secretio7is, in health, of the Salivary, Tear, Mammary and Sudorific Glands; of the Testis and Ovary; of the Kidneys in hepatic deranyemenis; of Mucous Membranes when con- yested and inflamed; and in the Fluid of Ascites and inthat of Spnna Bifida. Amer. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1863, p. 289. ^''ak Deen, J.—Preliminary C'ontrihutions on the production of Urea from Uric Acid by means of the Continuozis Flectric Current. Archiv fiir die Hollandische Beitrage, B. iii, Heft a, p. 146. On the Changes ivhich various bodies may undergo externally to the Animal Organism, but agreeing ivith those luhich take place in the Metamorphosis of Matter tvithin it. Based on the Experi- ments of J. Van Been. lb., iii, Heft 2, p. 225. In consequence of the frequent contradictions given to the state- ment of BischofF and Voit, that the whole of the nitrogen ex- creted is contained in the m^ine and ffeces, and none in the perspira- tion and expired air, A-^oit, not content with recognising the sources of error in the methods by which those contradictory results were obtained, has put the matter anew to the test, choosing for the pur- pose a dove, that being the animal in Avhich the asserted deficit of nitrogen in the urine and fasces was the greatest. It was fed for 124 days on peas, the nitrogen in which was accurately determined. They contained in 3132-4 grammes (7'2lbs.), dried at 100°, i49'4 grammes (5-3 oz.) of nitrogen. The urine and fa;ces, accurately collected by a special apparatus, amounted to 976 grammes (2'2 lbs.), when dried at 100°, and contained i45'9 grammes (5'^ '^^•) of nitrogen, that is, 2'3 per cent, less than the food. But the dove in the mean time had increased in weight 70 grammes (2'5 oz.) ; and this increase, considering the nature of the food, consisted, most probably, of albuminous matter, which would contain 2-4 grammes (37 grains) of nitrogen. Thus, in the urine, fasces, and increase of flesh, Avere contained 148-3 grammes of nitrogen, against i49'4 grammes in the peas consumed (a difference of 17 grains). The ashes of the food and excrement were also compared. The former yielded 94-6 grammes, tlio latter 947. By these numbers it is established that also in the dove in which Boussingault found a