KKl'ORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEIIIA MEDICA. 403 and pallor of countenance. An emetic was given, and part of the glass was rejected. Afterwards stimulants and aqua lauro cerasi were em- ployed ; the next day the urgency of the symptoms had passed off, and she completely recovered. SULPHUBIC ACID. A series of papers on poisoning by sulphuric acid, from observations made in the clinique of Prof. Trericlis in Berlin, published by Maukopff in the ' Wien. Med. Woch.,' (i86a, pp. 558, &c.; 1863, pp. 180, &c.), contains several observations of interest. Five cases are recorded. The first and second cases are those of female servants, each of whom swallowed a mouthful of the dilute acid (one part of "English" acid in six) ; both these cases terminated in recovery. The first patient stated originally that a man had poured a burning fluid into her mouth ; the truth of this was doubted, because the poison had evidently been swal- lowed, and the next day the girl confessed that she had taken the acid of her own accord. The third case, also that of a female, who took a mouthfid of (? dilute) acid, was fatal in eight weeks. The next case, that of a youth who took a mouthful of strong acid, was doing well when the report terminated. The last case is that of a woman who swallowed a quantity of dilute acid, and who died in twenty-eight hours. The main symptoms were those ordinarily observed in similar cases, but some points were also noticed to which attention has not been previously directed. Besides the matters vomited and those regurgi- tated from the Q3Sophagus, there was abundant discharge of fluid, con- taining at first blood and afterwards mucus, from the buccal cavity. This was probably in great measure secreted by the salivary glands, owing to the irritation of the nerves of the mucous membrane of the mouth, as in the experiments of Bernard and others. In the fourth case suppurative parotitis occurred on the left side at the end of the sixth week. The salivation had then long ceased; and the inflamma- tion is ascribed to extension of the swelling of the mucous membrane (which still existed) into Steno's duct, consequent obstruction of its cavity, accumulation of the secretion, and ii-ritation of the gland—the chain of circumstances being exactly similar to that which causes mam- mary abscess. Swelling of both parotids on the foiu-th day of a poison- ing case had already been noticed by Sebregondi. The difficulty of swallowing, slight at first, gradually increased, and was greatest at the time when the altered mucous membrane sepai-ated and exposed the superficial ulcerations beneath. It appeared to be caiised partly by the swelling of the subjacent tissues, partly by spas- modic contraction of the muscular fibres of the throat. The pain was most severe behind the larynx, and it remained there longer than else- where. In the fatal cases this part was found to be most aftected by the poison. "When the oesophagus was completely obstructed, the gas- tric symptoms disappeared lor a time, to return the first time anything was swallowed and reached the stomach. The local action of the poison usually ceased at the oesophagus. In one case slight blackish spots