•1'26 UEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEUICA. it is CggHggOg. It is an energetic vermifuge, and expelled the taenia ■when given in doses of a few centigi'ammes. Leguminosw. During the past year the properties of the Calabar bean, the seed of the Physosiigma Venenosum, have attracted much attention. The power vifhich this agent possesses, of causing contraction of the pupil, •was first noticed by Dr. Eraser, of Edinbui'gh ; and a full account of the botanical characters of the plant from which it is obtained, and of the form, appearance, structure, and physiological properties of the seed, is given in an inaugural dissertation by Dr. Eraser, published in the 'Edinb. Med. Journ.' (July—September, 1863). The Fliysostigma Venenosum is a climbing plant, which grows in the district of Calabar, on the west coast of Africa. The seed appears to be the only poisonous part of it; experiments made with the stem on animals have given only negative results. The bean is about an inch in length and three quarters of an inch in breadth, of an irregularly reni- form shape, and of a shining brown colour. As it is brought to this country, it is generally covered with earthy matter, so that it haa a greyish appearance. Its w^eight is about sixty-three grains. The kernel is the most active part of the seed; it consists of the two concavo-convex cotyledons; it is of a creamy-white colour, and easily broken in a mortar or cut with a knife. AVhen a small fatal dose of it is given to animals, the following effects are observed. A slight tremor is first seen, commencing posteriorly, and extending forwards to tlie anterior extremities and head. The animal then becomes paralysed, the hind limbs being first aifected; and it soon lies extended, with all its muscles flaccid. A few unsuccessful attempts to recover its usual position are often made. In some cases the ^bowels are evacuated of their contents. The pupils then contract; the respiration becomes slow and irregular; a stertorous noise accompanies both the inspiration and the expiration, and frothy mucus escapes from the mouth. Slight mus- cular twitchings occur, especially in the extremities. No reflex move- ments are produced by either pinching or pricking the skin, and after a time the eyelids do not contract when touched, or even when the eye- ball is pricked. "When the animal is lifted by its ears the limbs hang inert, and the only sign of life is an occasional gasping inspiration. This soon ceases, and the animal appears dead. So long as the paralysis is incomplete, proofs of sensation may be obtained by pinching the ears or pricking the skin. It is certain that consciousness is preserved, at least as long as the power of expression remains. Immediately after death the pupils dilate. On opening the body the muscles which are cut contract, and movements are easily excited by irritation of the nerves. The heart is found beating regularly, and the intestines exhibit distinct vermicular actions. The movements of the heart may continue for an hour and a half after death. The viscera are generally congested. There is nothing peculiar in the post-mortem appearances found. When a much larger dose of the kernel is administered, paralysis