4-66 UEPOET ON PUBLIC HEALTH. stituted for tliem. Ten centigrammes (gr. is«) nre to be made into eight pills, nnd one of these is to be given every iialf hour till a purgative effect 18 produced. After recovery, cider must be ingested in small quantities only, or diluted with water, or wine should be drunk in its place. Vamlle ice.—VvoL Schroff ('Wien. Med. Wchnbl.,' xix, :j2, 1863 ; 'Schmidt,' XI, p. 182) reports a number of cases of disease, attended with vomiting, and with almost choleraic symptoms, and apparently caused by eating a sort of vanille ice. There are three ways in which it is possible that these effects may have been produced :—(i) The vanilla fruits are often coated over with the oil of the Anacardium oecidentale. This oil is innocent if pure, but it often contains a juice which is found in cavities in the shell of the plant, and which has irritant and vesicant properties. Schroflf generated by means of it an inflammatory affection of three weeks' dura- tion on his own arm. _ Experiments made with this impure oil on rabbits appear to show that it is capable of producing the symptoms observed. (2) In the vanilla fruits are packets of crystalline needles, which occupy the parenchymatous structure of the middle substance. They are very large in the fruits used for making ices ; they are said by Soubeiran to have urticating properties. (3) It has been supposed that, under certain unknown circumstances, a poisonous fatty acid may be formed; but there was no probability that this is the cause of the symptoms produced by the vanille ice. VACCINATION. Dr. v. Bulmerincq, kais. Russ. General-Major, has published the results of observations made by himself, as to the relative advantages of the methods of vaccination practised in Russia, Austria, Germany, England, and France. He carried on his investigations during four years of travel. An account of them is given in Canstatt (1863, S. A., p. 44). He finds that the legal provisions for vaccination in the larger states are in many respects antiquated, and he thinks that the arrangements made in Bavaria are superior to those of all other countries. In that kingdom there is a constant co-operation of the vaccinating medical men ■with the local and higher authorities. Vaccination is compulsory, and "retro-vaccine lymph," that is to say, lymph transferred from man to the cow, is used. The results obtained in Bavaria are very satisfactory. In twenty-one years (from 1840 to i860), only 8606 persons died of variola in that state, and of these, 3.532 were children under one year of age, and 1162 were between one and five years old. It may be assumed that these were not vaccinated, and therefore they may be deducted, as they are not instances of defective protection, v. Bulmerincq recommends compul- sory revaccination of the whole population, a measure which has been found so successful when applied to the militia of several German states. He gives some well-authenticated instances in which vaccination produced injurious effects on the health of the infant vaccinated. These conse- quences were, however, caused by the ignorance or carelessness of the medical man, and not by the operation itself. Vaccination should, there- fore, he taught in a methodical way at a central vaccine institution. Foundling hospitals should never be used, as at Vienna, as the centres from which lymph is obtained. There is no security that illegitimate