4t4-a hepout on toxicology and mateuia medica. and in similar conditions. Dr. Jones employs a lotion containing one part of the tincture of aconite P. L., mixed with two of water (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 186,3, vol. i, p. 241). After showing how unsatisfactory are the various theoretical views as to the action of expectorants, Dr. Gairdner (' Glasgow Med. Jour.,' xi, p. 129) attributes this defect to errors in the ordinary conception of the method!? by which mucus is expelled from the bronchi. He thinks that, in health, tliis is effected by the muscular walls of the bronchial tubes contracting in a peristaltic way, so that they may be looked on as the " scavenger muscles of the respiratory tract." He divides expecto- rant remedies generally into two classes:—(i) Aromatic and volatile substances, such as camphor, ammonia, assafcetida, garlic, myrrh, copaiba, &c. Their action is probably local, and consequent on their direct contact with the pulmonary mucous membrane, either through the ex- cretions or through the expired air. (2) Agents which are expectorant in small doses, uauseant and emetic when given in larger quantities. Such are antimony, ipecacuanha, squill, senega, lobelia, tobacco, &c.; and he believes that these remedies are peculiarly and specifically the exciters of bronchial peristalsis. GENERAL PHAEMACEUTICS. M. Turun ('Bull, de Ther.,' vol. Ixiv, p. 72, 1863) recommends the use of glycerine as a solvent for various remedies. Its miscibility with water gives it a great advantage, since it is easily cleansed away from sores, and it does not stain linen or apparatus, like other fatty bodies. He gives formulffi for preparations, which are called glyceroles, contain- ing tincture of opium and other tinctures, extracts, volatile oils, salts of the organic alkaloids, and metallic salts, such as alum and borax. Still more useful are the solid preparations. The basis of these is the glycerolate of starch. This is made by suspending five parts of starch in ten parts of water, adding eighty-five parts of glycerine, and warming till the mixture assumes a gelatinous condition. The addition of water is with the object of facilitating the hydration of the starch, and pre- venting the compound having a disagreeable smell, which sometimes happens when the heat is maintained too long; a note of the editor says, however, that water is not necessary in preparing this compound. Various substances may be incorporated with the glycerolate of starch, such as sulphur, tannin, iodide of potassium, calomel, &c. Dr. Attfield (' Pharm. Jouru.,' p. 388) advises that, in making solu- tions of the alkaloids in oils, they should be first combined with oleic acid, the oleates so formed being far more soluble than the free alka- loids. Quinine combines at the temperature of boiling water with twice its weight of oleic acid, forming a fluid oleate, which can bo mixed with cod-liver oil, or with other oils, when required. M. Lepage ('Jouru. de Pharm. et de Chim.,' p. 361) advocates the use of ether for the purpose of preserving the juices of plants, a plan originally suggested by Bourchardat. He has recently made some extract of bella- donna from juice preserved by means of ether, for more than ten years. During this time a deposit of earthy salts from the juice occurs. Lepage gives no details as to the method of employing the ether,