NERVOUS SYSTEM. 69 NEUVOUS SYSTEM. Radcliffe, C. B., M.D.—A Course of Lectures on certain Disorders of the Brain and Nervous System, ivith special reference to the changes in opinion and practice which result from recent i-esearches in Phijsiologrj and Fathologxj. Lancet, Feb. i4tli, aSth; March 21st; April nth; May i6th, 23rd. The first four lectures are devoted to the consideration of the physiology of muscular action and sensation ; from these and the following we extract the principal propositions :—(I) As to the electrical phenomena which belong to muscle and motor nerve in the state of inaction.—(i) During the state gf inaction the side and ends of the fibres of living muscular and nervous tissue are (with certain exceptions, to be mentioned presently) in a state of electric antagonism, tbe sides presenting signs of positive electricity, the ends of negative. (2) During the state of inaction the sides and ends of the fibres of living muscular nervous tissue present difterent degrees of electric tension at different points, the sides being most posi- tive at the point midway between the two ends, the ends most negative at the point most distant from their edges. (3) Under certain circum- stances the natural electrical antagonism of the sides and ends of the fibres of living muscular and nervous tissue, during the state of inaction, is reversed, the sides becoming negative, the ends positive. This takes place a short time before the occurrence of rigor mortis in the muscles of warm-blooded animals and of certain reptiles, and in the brain and spinal cord of frogs. In nerves also it is found to result from various injuries, mechanical, thermal, chemical, and others. (4) During the state of inaction living muscular and nervous tissue is found to present unmistakable signs of current electricity, if two points of dissimilar elec- tricity or of dissimilar electric tension are included in the circuit of the galvanometer; but not so if the two points thus included are similar in electricity, or similar in electric tension. (5) During the state of inaction living animal tissues are found to be capable of acting upon the gold-leaf of an electi-oscope, and of furnishing other signs which show that the natural electricity of these tissues is characterised by high tension. (6) There is reason to believe that the primary electrical con- dition of living muscle and nerve during the state of inaction is that of statical electricity, and that the " muscular current" or " nerve current" which may pass from muscle or nerve during the state of inaction are only secondary phenomena. (7) The natural electricity which is present in living muscle or nerve during the state of inaction is altogether absent in rigor mortis. (8) It is possible that the elongated state of living muscle may be due to the presence of the natural electricity which belongs to living muscle in the state of inaction. (9) It is possible also that the contracted state of the muscle in rigor mortis may be due to the absence of the natural electricity which belongs to the muscle in the state of inaction. (II) As to the electrical phenomena which belong to muscle and motor nerve in the state of action.— (10) The natural electricity which is present in living muscle during the state of inaction is almost or altogether absent in the state of action. This is shown by an experiment of Du Bois Ileymond's, in which the needle of a galvanometer is much less deflected by the current pro-