247 EXOPIITWALMIC GOITRE. felt beating in its normal situation, with a tumultuous jcrldng impulse. He observed tliis symptom three days after his marriage. The palpita- tions were increase,c],.-by alteration of position and excitement^ to a con- siderable extent, giving him the idea, as he expressed it, 'as if it would jump out of the chest, or burst.' There was a lond systolic murmur, extending along the great vgssels. On percussing the region of the heart, I did not perceive any increased vertical or horizontal dulness. The carotids could be seen beating most violently, and gave a loud bruit. The abdominal aorta could be felt pulsating in the same way through the thin, wasted abdominal walls, and here also the bruit was heard. The radial pulsations were 1,36 per minute, full and soft; during excitement they had some of the violence and irregularity of the carotids ; but at all times there was a marked dilference in the radial and carotid pulsations. The thyroid body was enlarged, the lateral lobes being each of about the size of a duck's egg, the right a little larger than the left; it was soft to the feel, conveying a thrill to the fingers and a bruit to the ear. During excitement the gland increased in size, the thrill and bruit were increased. He noticed the enlargement of the thyroid gland fifteen days after the palpitations, eighteen days after his mai-riage. There was a distinct venous murmur in the jugulars. The abdomen was flat, and gave the normal physical sigus, except the pulsations and bruit of the aorta, and increased vertical and lateral dulness over the regions of the liver and spleen. The limbs were much wasted, the tissues hanging flabbily to the bones; there was slight oedema of the ankles. The eyes projected from the orbits ; by pressure of the finger the protrusion could be diminished, but it returned on the removal of the pressure. He could move the eyes freely in any direction, but the tendency was to look straight out. The coats of the eye were not in- jected ; vision was perfect, but there was a great disinclination to read, because the fatigue and consequent excitement caused an increase of the palpitations. The skin was cool, except during a paroxysm of ex- citement, when it was covered with a clammy perspiration. The urine was slightly increased in quantity, specific gravity 1021, pale, acid, deficient in urea, but otherwise normal. The tongue was clean, except near the base, where there was a creamy fur. He had much thirst, the desire being for acid liquors. "Whilst on the Continent he had taken freely of the light acid wines, which were no sooner taken than rejected, as he thought, from their not agreeing with him; he therefore day by day changed his wine, without any different result. This irritability of the stomach had troubled him during the convalescence from the attack of colic, and up to the time of his leaving England he had only been able to take milk diet without great risk of its being rejected. His appetite was variable and capricious, the desire being for highly seasoned soups, which were frequently rejected. In this way he accounted for the emaciation. He had diarrhcca during the first ten days, the stools being 'dark and bilious;' then constipation, which still continued. The bowels had not acted for three days before this evening; the motion \yas scanty and pale. He complained of inability to sleep ; he could not lie upon tke left side, in consequence of the increase of palpitations; nor on the right side, from difficulty of breathing; nor on his back, from con^