333 NEW METHOD OE CURING DEFOUMITIES. the tin, aud three times as loug, is made to adhere over the defective muscle, from its origin to just above the ankle-joint, the superabundant lougth hanging loose below. Over the plaster which covers the muscle is placed the piece of tin, roughly moulded to fit the surface, and padded at its lower end with a little cotton-wool. The additional length of strapping is next turned upward over the tin. The leg is then to be smoothly strapped, in continuation with the circular strapping on the foot, from the ankle to just beyond the other end of the tin, care being taken to leave the wire loop uncovered. There is still an additional length of longitudinal plaster, which, for security, may be brought down and made to adhere outside the circular pieces. Now, it will have been perceived that the arrangement of the longitudinal piece of strap- ping is as follows:—it first adheres to the skin of the leg, then forms a loop, sustaining the lower end of the tin; thence it runs up with its sticky side outwards and adherent to the inside of the surrounding strips; lastly, for more security, it turns down over the last circtdar piece, its inner side adhering to the outer surface of those strips. Thus we have at the upper part of the leg a fixed point, the wire eye supported through the medium of the tin by a loop of plaster, which takes its bearing in such a manner that no constriction of the limb can be pro- duced, whatever downward force be exerted upon the wire. Now, it is only necessary to choose an india-rubber spring of such a length as to produce the right amount of tension, and to fix one of its hooks in the wire loop, and the other in the eyelet which was let into the plaster on the foot. " By tension of this india-rubber we can assist any one muscle or muscles in their action on the foot, making them adapt themselves to a normal posture in an active condition. If we vdsh to supply two mus- cles, e.g. the tibialis posticus and anticus, two tins and two wire loops are as easily fixed as one. But a little difference must be observed in supplying the peroneus longus and brevis. These run so equally and closely on the leg that one wire loop suffices for both; but below the fibula they make a bend of a little more than a right angle, and we cau- uot, as is the case with other and less crooked tendons, produce the necessary change in the direction of the force by the trapezoid shape aud the adhesiveness of the strapping. That which represents these tendons must belaid on the outside of the foot, nearly as far forward as the root of the toes, and to its eyelet must be fixed a piece of catgut, which in passing \o the spring runs through a little metal block, thus constructed. An eyelet is nipped by the proper pliers as though for fixing it, but without fastening it to anything; this is to act as a pulley. It is tied, not too tightly, by a piece of wire to a hole at the lowest part of the front edge of the tin. Of course, the catgut running through this barren eyelet bends at an angle which can be made pre- cisely to imitate that of the tendon. In these cases the tin should be passed into a slit in a piece of the strapping going round the leg, so as resist the slight tendency forward. " A case of varus is to be treated by supplying force to the two peronei muscles; it is better to use a spring for each muscle, and the amount of traction should bo distributed between them, until the due