23 CIRCULATION AND RESPIUATIOX. Oteiibeck, E.—On the Albuminous Urine ichich follows inlerruption of the Blood-stream. Wiener Sitzungsberichte, vol. xlvii, p. 189. Hermann's experiment on temporary compression of the renal artery liaving shown that albuminuria was one of the most constant results (see '"year-Book,' 1862, p. 26), Overbeck was induced to submit the subject to further investigation. Three questions were chiefly con- sidered—(i) The extent to which the albuminuria might be thus induced. (2) The means by which the result was brought about; whether (as Hermann thought) purely through increased pressure on the capillaries, or through alteration also of the secreting membranes. (3) To com- pare the changes in the normal urinary constituents (urea, for example) ^vith the appearance and variations of the albumen. To avoid modifi- cations from injury to the renal nerves, the blood-stream was interrupted by compressing in some cases the renal arteries, in others the aorta; by introducing a bladder empty into the right side of the heart, and then inflating it; and finally, by producing transient suff'ocation. The experiments were made on dogs, which were mostly well fed on meat the previous evening. Overbeek's conclusions are the fol- lowing :—(i) Albumen appears in the urine, not only after compression of the renal arteries, but also after inflation of the heart and attacks of suffocation. (2) The seci-etion of urine returns, not immediately on the restoration of the circulation, but after the lapse of from five to twenty-two or even forty-four minutes. (3) The amount of the urine is sometimes increased, sometimes diminished. (4) There is no fixed relation between the quantity of urine and the per-centage of albumen. (5) If the amount of urine sinks when the albumen appears, the ab- solute amount of urea diminishes in all cases, even when its per- centage increases ; even if the urine increases, the absolute amount of urea diminishes, unless the urine rises to a multiple of the original quantity. (6) The process which introduces the flow of albumen checks the secretion of urea. (7) Between the per-centage of urea and albumen there exists no fixed relation. (8) Tying the ureter may entirely prevent the passage of albumen into the urine. (9) Nar- rowing of the renal artery seems also to diminish the amount of tlie albumen. (10) The albuminuria after interruption of the blood-stream seems to be due to a combination of several main conditions ; probably an alteration of the membranes is not less concerned than an elevation of the blood-pressure. (11) The reaction of the albuminous urine is very variable, often changing rapidly ; neutral or alkaline urine often at once becomes acid with the first appearance of albumen. (12) In albuminous urine, after interruption of the blood-stream, there are found epithelial cylinders, but no fibrinous coagula; the former do not appear immediately, but only after a prolonged continuance of the albuminuria. The flow of albumen, therefore, is not (as AVillich holds) a consequence of the throwing off of the epithelium, but its cause. (13) Within the kidney-epithelium there exists tlie same kind of mole- cular motion that presents itself in the salivary, pus-, and blood- corpuscles. (14) The constitution of the kidney differs after long- continued albuminuria from that which is found after a short cou, tiuuance. In the former case there exist stases of various extent,