EEPORT ON MIDWlFEllYj ETC. 896 held by Deninnii and Collins, that "abdominal" inflammation is a common sequela of puerperal convulsions, the author does not find confirmed by his own experience; but thinks this may be accounted for by its being the practice to bleed more freely now for these attacks tlian when Deinnan wrote. In the 19 cases above mentioned, free venesection was employed in every case. In reference to the condition of the urine—of which mention is made in only one case, where it is said to be albuminous, the author remarks that he has found this condition to exist in " about every five cases out of six in which he has been able to make the observation, gradually becoming less with the recovery of the patient, and almost entirely disappearing at the end of twelve or fourteen days." Some pathologists believe the presence of albumen under such circumstances to be an indication of granular disease of the kidneys, and to this latter condition ascribe the cause of the convulsions; on the other hand, M. Blot and others, assert that "the excretion of albumen by the kidneys in small quantities, is not an unusual occurrence in pregnant women." The author suggests the following explanation :—" "We know that fibrine is in excess in the blood of pregnant women, we have reason to believe that albumen is also in excess ; and from the observations of M. Blot, as a part of that excess is got rid of by the kidneys, we may easily imagine that if there be a much greater quantity formed than healthy blood ought to contain, the superfluous albumen may be the exciting cause of the convulsive seizAire." Dr. Donkin (Ed. Med. Journ., May, 1863) relates a case of puerperal mania, in which the urine was albuminous, and submits the following proposition; " That the acute dangerous class of cases are examples of ursemic blood-poisoning, of which the mania, rapid pulse, and other constitutional symptoms are merely the phenomena ; and that the effu- sion, therefore, ought to be termed ura3mic oi* renal puerperal mania, in contradistinction to the other form of the disease. PUEEPEEAl DISEASES. Prof. Simpson relates four cases of exanthemata occurring in the puerperal state ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' June, 1863). Two were cases of scarlatina, both occurring on the second or third day after delivery, and both recovered; another was a case of measles ushered in by an intense rigor on the fourth day after a natural labour, and proving fatal in fifty-three hours. The fourth was a case of smallpox occurring seven days after delivery, and causing death on the sixteenth day. Professor Simpson remarks "that when any of the exanthemata attack a pregnant woman they rarely prove fatal, whatever the date of pregnancy may be; or if tliey do not appear till ten or fourteen days after her delivery they are not specially dangerous; but witliiu the "first eight days they are always alarming, and very often fatal. The early diagnosis is often very difficult, the disease, in many cases, being only marked by rigor.s with great rapidity of the pulse. Tlie author does not agree witli Dj-. Kamsbothara in'supposing that the poison of the special epidemic fever