386 llEPOET ON MIDWIFEllY, ETC. cases, I recovered aud ^ died. These cases, though few in number, forcibly illustrate how insidious aud dangerous pelvic or abdomino- pelvic abscesses may be, and how important is their correct dia- gnosis ; especially if any operation, such as the removal of a polypus, be contemplated. The symptoms which should excite suspicion are a persistent hardness and swelling in one or other iliac region, not distinctly refer- able to uterine or ovarian enlargement, with persistent uneasiness and more or less tenderness on pressure. Among the points of difference between the pelvic abscess of the puerperal and of the non-puerperal state, may be noted—i. The far greater frequency of the abscess bursting into the peritoneal cavity in the latter than in the former case. No such accident ever occuri'ed, in the author's experience, of pelvic abscess succeeding to parturition, while of the six fatal cases here recorded, three terminated in this way; —2. The much greater frequency with which the pus is discharged per rectum or per vaginam in the ?iora-puerperal pelvic abscess, and the ex- treme rarity of the abscess pointing externallj/ in this class of cases;— 3. The far greater danger of the non-puerperal pelvic inflammation, and hence the more guarded prognosis. This latter is contrary, however, to the opinion of many French authors, Avho maintain that the puerperal disease is more dangerous than the non-puerperal. The apparent dis- crepancy may be reconciled by the primary or idiopathic form of the latter being only included in the comparison, and not the secondary. AFFECTIONS Or THE OS AND CEEYIX 'UTEEI. Dr. Barnes relates an interesting series of cases of occlusion of the uterus or vagina at different periods of life. " On Amenorrhoea aud HEBmatometra" ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' vol.'ii, 1863, p. 401). Of the tv?o cases of hfematometra, one arose from an imperforate hymen in a young girl, and was cured by operation. In these cases the author strongly advocates the gradual evacuation of the uterus, in opposition to the sudden artificial emptying by compres- sion and washing out; and he therefore simply removes the obstructing barrier, and leaves the uterus to empty itself, only giving it support by applying a compress and binder to the abdomen. In the second case the retention of blood in the uterus arose from complete atresia of the vagina by cicatrization, probably during the healing of venereal sores. The vagina was with difficulty opened up by two operations, and the uterus allowed to empty itself naturally. Two others were cases of amenorrhoea; one with congenital absence of vagina, and the other with undeveloped uterus; and in two more cases procidentia of the uterus existed, with complete occlusion of the os uteri. Dr. Tracy records a case of undeveloped uterus (' Australian Med. Journ.,' January, 1863), where the development was stimulated by the use of galvanic intra-uterine pessaries.