REPORT ON SURGERY. a78 into town, where they can be properly watched; he has not observed any injurious effect from the exposure to cold; he believes that croup diners toto coelo from catarrh caused by cold. Tracheotomy in croup has been recently gaining ground. It is now perceived, that croup is a specific disease, dilFering in essential points from simple catarrhal affections, and that it is usually,—in the majority of cases—fatal. (It is frequently contagious; every precaution must be used, for many medical men have recently caught the infection and died.) It cannot be denied that children perish almost always from suffocation. It is true that after the operation many patients—up to the present time more than half—die from pneumonia, bronchitis, or the fever, but they do not perish from suffocation. The first indication is to prevent suffbcation; when this danger has been overcome by opening the windpipe, every efibrt must be made to diminish the danger of pneumonia, &c. Tracheotomy is indicated in croup, so soon as there are urgent symptoms of obstruction of the glottis. It has been already noticed, that whilst in asphyxia caused by the gradual cessation of the oxydizing process of the blood, and by the progressive poisoning by carbonic acid, when the respiration is impeded, there are at the same time cold extremities, blue lips, livid countenance, cold sweats, and general relaxation passing into a soporous condition, the condition threatening suffocation is essentially different. The respiration is impeded, and the demand for oxygen is only satisfied by difficult, forced respirations; dreadful anguish is depicted on the reddened countenance, covered with sweat; there is extreme restlessness; the patient tosses from side to side, gets out of bed one minute, into it the next, and clutches spasmodically at those around him, as if seeking every- where for help. This is the proper j)eriod for the operation; this is the time when success may be expected. Should the operation be longer delayed, symptoms of genuine asphyxia appear; and then, though it may enable the child to breathe freely, it has usyially no longer power to resist the advancing bronchitis. Yet it is never too late to operate; so long as respiration continues,—life may possibly be yet saved. Eoser has operated on or assisted in the treatment of forty-two cases in seven years ; of these nineteen recovered, twenty-three died. In fourteen of the latter there were special, more or less avoidable, causes of death; thus in six there was far-advanced asphyxia when the operation was performed; three times death was probably o^ving 1;o cerebral complications, tvrice to secondary disease (acute pneumonia after almost complete recovery, death on the fifteenth day; albumi- nuria, death in the third week) ; twice death occurred suddenly, in all probability from obstruction of the canula through fault of the nurse; once, very probably, from passage of blood into the trachea. Prof. Szymanowski, new canula (' St. Petersb.'.Med. Zeitschr.,' iy, 22), and remarks on the manner of operating (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1863, iii, i). A. M. M'Whinnie (' Lane.,' 1862 i, 143). Dr. Matejovsky (' Prag. Yiertelj.,' 1862, ii, i). M. Demarquay (' Gaz. d. Hop., 1862, p. 177). Mr. Spenee, tracheotomy tube di-opped into left bronchus ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' viii, 191). Dr. Burow, simplified operation (' Deutsche Kim., 1862, p. 382).