UEPORT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. Hoemoptysis, considering the smallest streak as such, occurred in 32 2 per IGO colours Mere twice as frequent in males as in females. As to the eyes, the proportion of black was quite insignificant; tlie gray shades embraced 74 per cent. ; the brown colour was more, and the gray colour less, fre- quent in females than in males. The florid complexion was met with in nearly 60 per cent., and the pale in 40 per cent. The florid was more frequent in the females. As to bodily conformation, about an equal num- ber of all the patients were fleshy and spare ; the females, however, much exceeded the males in the fleshy class, and vice versd. The extremities were apt to be cold in rather more than half the cases, mostly among the females. The susceptible temperament prevailed largely; it was found in 73-5 per cent, of the cases, in 74-5 percent, of the females, and in 68-5 per cent, of the males. As the appearance of the catamenia, 63 per cent, of the whole had ^the menstrual epoch at 13, 14, 15, or 16 years of age. As to irregularity, in only 6 per cent, was there an excessive quantity, in 29 per cent, it was deficient, and 167 the returns were infrequent. Leucorrhcea had been persistent in 42*2 per cent, of all the cases. As to discharges of blood, epistaxial and hsemorrhoidal, the latter were rare, the former rather frequent. There were 43-5 per cent, married, and of these 13 per cent, were childless. Four fifths of the whole had their first child when between 20 and 30 years of age. The number of children Avas not large per each family; those with i and 2 constituted 44 per ceut., those with 3 and 4 gave 20'8 per cent., those with 5, 6, and 7 were 2i"8 per cent. As to the general health of the children, it was feeble in 43 per cent, of all the cases, and in a higher ratio among females than males. Abortion had occurred in 46'2 per cent, of the child-bearing females. Of the male patients, nearly one half smoked, one fourth had drank to excess, and per cent, had led a bad life in various ways at some period, mostly before 20. Syphilis and gonorrhoea had occurred in 27*5 and 50 per cent, of the cases. Late hours had been kept in i9'3 per cent, of the whole cases, and four times oftener in men than in women. Anxiety to an injurious degree had been experienced in 22'2 per cent. ; 70 per cent, complained of some injury resulting from their occu- pation, the males to the amount of 85, the females to 49 percent. The most frequent source of injury was exposure, after which closely came long hours and close and hot rooms. In 9 per cent, mercury had been inhaled or imbibed so as to cause injury, twice as often among males as in females. General bleeding had been practised in 15 per cent, of tlie cases, much more frequently in females. Flannel had not been worn usually by 25 per cent. Only 2*5 per cent, had been dry-nursed ; in 24 per cent, the pa- tients had been born of feeble habit, females in a ratio of 5 percent, higher than males. Good general health during the periods of childhood, puberty, and adolescence, had been experienced by 78-5 per cent., whilst 7-5 per cent, had never enjoyed it. Good health was 20 per cent, more common in males', and unbroken feeble health 7 per cent, more frequent in females. The appetite had been generally good in 83 per cent, of the cases, with an excess in favour of the males of 18 per cent. It had never been good ni 7 per cent., with a large excess on the part of the females. The lungs were considered to be naturally delicate in 12-6 per cent, of the cases, women being more liable to it than men in the proportion of 17 : p'O-