422 llEl'OltT ON TOXICOLOGY AND 3IATEUIA 51EDICA. alcohol. Three aud a half grains of its resin were required to produce the same eflect as in the other experiments. It is therefore less active than the resin of the false jalap, while that, again, is inferior to the resin of the true jalap. The commei'cial Smyrna scammony produced no ■effect when given in doses of six to twenty grains. In conclusion, Bernatzik remarks that the statement that jalap-resin causes severe griping pains is incorrect. He did not find the resin of jalap a more certain purgative than the root, nor did it appear to have a more irritant action on the stomach and on the intestinal tract. The notion that the administration of jalap is not followed by constipation is without foundation. Many of the persons experimented on who took the jalap only twice complained afterwards of costiveness, which lasted •even for weeks. Gentianacece. Ludwig and Kromeyer ('Phar. Jour.,' vol. v, p. 185) have succeeded in isolating the principle to which the gentiana lutea owes its bitter taste. They made an alcoholic extract of the fresh root. This was dissolved in water, and animal charcoal Avas added, which removed the bitter principle. The charcoal was then treated with alcohol; the tincture was evaporated; the residue was freed from precipitable matter by oxide of lead, which was itself thrown down by sulphuretted hydrogen. The solution was then evaporated to a syrup; and on agitation with ether, the bitter substance, to which the name of gentio-picrin is given, is deposited. It is a crystallizable, neutral substance, readily soluble in water and alcohol, but not in ether. Its formula is C4oH3(,024. CompositcB. Artemisia absinthiim.—Mr. W. Smith (' Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc.,' vol. iv, No. 3) records a case of poisoning by about half an ounce of the oil of wormwood. The drug acted as a narcotico-acrid, causing insensibility with convulsions. The jaws were firmly fiLxed, and foaming at the mouth was among the symptoms observed. There was also a tendency to vomit. Emetics, as well as stimulants and de- mulcents, were employed in the treatment of the case. The man recovered; it is remarkable that afterwards he had no recollection of taking the poison, nor of the cause of his doing so. CincliomcecB, Mr. Howard (' Pharm. Jour.,' vol. v, p. 74) gives a very favorable report of some bark from the Cinchona succiruhra, grown in India, which had been sent to him for examination. The amount of alkaloids which he obtained from bark of the second year's growth was 3-30 to 3*40 per cent. Of this quinine and cinchonidine made up 2*40 per cent. Cinchonine (which crystallized freely) formed o-6o per cent., tlie remainder being chiefly water of the hydrated alkaloids. The product of fine quills of the South American red bark is 3*60 per cent. The