liKPOltT 0\ I'ltACTlCAT, MKOICINE. nodes, nccoriliiis; to Fuller, occur in persons who are always cachectic, and ■who commonly have suHercd from syphilis or have had their systems satu- rated by mercury. He recommends in such cases, besides support and bark, Pot. lodid., with a little biniodide of mercury, the latter being held in solu- tion by an excess of the potassium salt. In gonorrhoeal rheumatism also he finds the same medication very efficacious, taking care to arrest at the same time, the urethral discharge, if it still exist. When the joints remain thickened, painful, and stiffened, Fuller finds the best treatment to con- sist in cold douching to the parts, followed by rough friction, and then enveloping them in lint steeped in the following lotion :—Tinct. lod. co. 5S8, Glycerinii 3iiss, Aquae ^iij; M. This causes no cutaneous irritation, and ensures a constant absorption of iodine. With regard to rheumatic gout. Fuller expresses a decided opinion that it is a disease sui (jeneris, totally distinct from gout and equally so from rheumatism; indeed, it seems to him to resemble scrofulous inflammation more nearly than rheu- matism in its nature. Pathological research has shown that in the earliest stage of the disease the capsules of the aff"ected joints are distended with fluid, the synovial membrane is thickened and intensely vascular, and vas- cular tufts exist at the margins of the cartilages ; that as the disease pro- gresses the fluid is absorbed as well as the interarticulate fibro-cartilages, and eburnation of the articulating surfaces takes place ; that the heads of the bones become enlarged and altered in shape by the occurrence of inter- stitial absorption in some parts and of irregular osseous deposits in others ; and that foreign bodies, of varying consistence and character, are often developed both within and without the joints—bodies which are some- times cartilaginous, sometimes bony, sometimes attached by longer or shorter pedicles to the synovial membrane or to the ligamentous structures, and at others are loose within the joint. It has shown that these changes may take place slowly, without any general febrile disturbance or any acute local inflammatory action; and, on the other hand, that they may be pre- ceded and accompanied by fever, and by pain, heat, and inflammatory swelling of the parts ; that the bursae and sheaths of tendons in the vici- nity of the affected joints are prone to be implicated in the mischief, but that neither in the joints nor in the adjacent bursse or sheaths of tendons are any of the ordinary products of inflammation found—there is no lymph, and no pus, and no urate of soda, as in gout. In other words, it has shown that the characteristic changes which occur in the joints as the result of rheumatic gout take place independently of active inflammation, and that the acute inflammatory action which sometimes precedes or accompanies these structural changes is simply a complication of the dis- order, and by no means necessary to its perfect development. These struc- tural changes occur not in the robust, the well- or over-fed, but are more common in women than in men ; very frequently arise in persons who lead a temperate life and are small eaters; and never present themselves in persons who are constitutionally sound, unless they have been subjected to some cause of nervous exhaustion and enfeebled health. The ofl'spring of consumptive parents, especially weakly women ; men rendered cachec- tic by excessive venery or syphilis, mental strain, anxiety, or over-fatigue, are most liable to suffer from this disorder. In women the disease is often traceable to the cachexia entailed by perversion of the uterine functions,