73 ]!EP01!T ON T'lUCTTCAL MEDTCINK. tricity and its susceptibility to impressions, the action of the positive pole will in n great measure bring back wliat was lost; and as this loss and recovery may happen more than once, this fact will explain how it is that contractions may disappear and reappear, as they are found to do in the case which is known under the name of "voltaic alternatives." (30) There is reason to believe that the diifcrences in the order of contraction at the opening and closing of the galvanic circuit, of which mention has been made, and which have been ascribed to differences in the direction of the current along the nerve, that is, to the current being "direct" or centrifugal in the one case, and "inverse" or centripetal in the other, are in reality to be ascribed to differences in the position of the poles, that is, to the negative pole being next the muscle in the former case, and to the positive pole being in this position in the latter case. (IV) On the part which certain non-electrical agents have to play in the process of muscular motion—(a) as to the blood.—(31) The state of rigor mortis is coincident with stagnation and coagulation of the blood. (32) After the state of rigor mortis is fully established, the state of vital relaxation may be brought back by rencM'ing the movements of the blood within the muscle. Brown-Scquard injected defibrinated dog's blood into the brachial artery of a guillotined criminal's arm after it had passed into a state of rigor mortis, and found that the rigidity passed off very speedily, and that the muscles were kept in a state of true vital relaxation as long as the injection was continued. (33) It is difficult to account for the phenomenon of rigor mortis by supposing that the blood plays the part of a stimulus to a vital property of tonicity in muscle. (34) It is less difficult to explain the history of rigor mortis by supposing that the blood may help to counteract tliis form of contraction, by ministering to the maintenance of the natural electricity of the muscle. (35) The state of relaxation in living muscle is disturbed by convulsive contraction when the supply of arterial blood is suddenly arrested by hsemorrhage, or (36) by suffocation. (37) There is reason to believe that one way in which strychnia and brucia bring about convulsive muscular contraction is by producing a change in the circulation which is equivalent to loss of arterial blood. Dr. Harley shows that blood containing these drugs takes less oxygen from, and gives less CO., to, the air, than healthy blood. (38) It is difficult to believe that blood produces the state of convulsive con- traction by playing the part of a stimulus to a vital property of irrita- bility in muscle or nerve. (39) It is not difficult to believe that blood may play its part in the process of muscular motion through the instru- mentality of the natural electricity of the muscular and nervous systems, intensifying this natural electricity during the state of vital relaxation, failing to do so when muscular contraction is present, {f)) As to the part which nervous influence has to play in the process of muscular motion.— (40) There is reason to believe that rigor mortis is coincident with a state of things in which nervous influence is altogether wanting. (41) There is reason to believe that the state of relaxation is not disturbed by con- vulsive contraction so long as the muscles receive a due supply of nervous influence, and that this state is disturbed in this manner at the moment when this supply is interrupted. Kussmaul and Tenner's experiments are appealed to for proof of this and of the following proposition. (42)