424 HEl'OllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATOULV MEDICA. cjndiona and iron, in which the addition of diastase prevents the pre- cipitation of the iron salt by the tannic acid of the cmciiona; and (3) a wine of cinchona and iodine, in whicli the iodine is first combined with sugar by a process of substitution, so that it docs not decompose the wine of cinchona. It is stated that all these three preparations arc free from the bitter taste of quinine. Buhiacea;. M. Pecholier has made a scries of experiments with ipecacuanha on animals; the results at which he has arrived are given in a pamphlet upon the subject, and also in the ' Gaz. Med.,' 1862, i, p. 744, and in the 'Med.-Chir. Eev.,' Oct., 1863, p. 436. His object was not to study the vomiting produced by ipecacuanha, nor the changes in any particular organ or function to which it gives rise, but ratlier tlie action exerted upon the living organism as a whole. Introduced into the circulation, carried into intimate contact with the tissues, and bringing its influence to bear on all parts of the body, it produces complex effects, of which we may avail ourselves in therapeutics. Some have ascribed to ipecacuanha a tonic action; others have said that its effects are of a contra-stimulant and depressing character. It was especially to the solution of this question that the observations of Pecholier were directed. He employed in these experiments animals of two kinds— rabbits, because, as they cannot relieve themselves of the drug by vomiting, secondary effects are the more surely produced; and frogs, to trace the action of this substance upon the nervous system. Emetina in the soluble form, as chloride, was chiefly iised in these researches ; but ethereal, alcoholic, and watery extracts of ipecacuanha were also employed. The alcoholic and watery extracts have the same action as emetina; but the ethereal extract has none of its properties, though it resembles ipecacuanha in its offensive action on the smell and respira- tion. Children are often tlu'own into violent fits of anger by taking the ethereal extract; but it affects different people very differently. Pecholier's conclusions as to the action of this remedy, derived from more than fifty experiments, are as follows:—(i) It produces a con- siderable decrease in tlic number and energy of the contractions of the heart. Under doses of emetina of one twentieth to half a grain, the pulsa- tions of the rabbit's heart, previously 160—200, fell to 120—100, and even to 92. (2) Equally marked is the diminution of the frequency of the respirations; having' been about 1^0 per minute, their number became 50, 40, or even 32. The lungs of those rabbits which died or were killed while under the influence of the drug were found to be remarkably pale, and to contain much less blood than those of healthy animals. (3) A fall in the temperature, amounting to i—27° Cent., was observed in the mouth, ear, and axilla. In the rectum, on the other hand, the temperature was stationary, or rose by o'^ or o";° Cent. (4) Constant efforts to vomit were made, evidenced by energetic con- tractions of the diaphragm and of the abdominal muscles. These efforts appeared to be the cause of a reaction, which was sometimes observed, but whicli did not last more tlian three or four miuutes.