OPEUATION rOU SECONDAUY STRABISJIUS. 219 simply turns the eye about its centre. But where the insertion slips behind the end of the transverse diameter into the posterior quadrant of a great circle, the turning power rapidly diminishes as tlie sine of the arc grows shorter; at the same time the muscle tends to pull the eye bach into the orbit. The muscle is further weakened by the appijoxima- tion of its origin and insertion, rendering its contractions less ellicient. " Operation.—Patient etherized; ej^elids separated by the wire specu- lum. The first step was to find and dissect up the insertion of the internal rectus muscle. An incision, a quarter of an inch long, was made vertically through the conjunctiva, at a reddish elevation which marked the original insertion of the rectus internus. The conjunctiva was dissected off the sclerotica and off" the external surface of the muscle by scissors for a depth of one half or three fourths of an inch. It was accidentally cut through before reaching the muscle. The in- sertion was sought for by a blunt hook—was found to be composed of a small bundle of fibres, not more than one fourth the normal breadth. Seizing it with forceps, it was separated from the globe and from its surrounding attachments, and loosened, until its extremity could be pulled as far forwards as the edge of the cornea. The next step was exposure of the external rectus muscle. A thread armed with a needle at each end was passed twice through the tendon, so that, when tied, it should include in the loop its whole breadth. The muscle was then severed just behind the thread. In these dissections the wounds made in the conjunctiva were as small as practicable, and the subconjunctival areolar tissue divided as sparingly as possible. The reason for this caution is, that the nutrition of the cornea may be perilled by the diminution of its vascular supply; nearly one half of its blood-vessels are sacrificed, at any rate. " By the thread fastened to the tendon of the external rectus, the eye could now be tiu-ned inward to the utmost degree. In doing this the divided external rectus could not slip entirely away from the globe, because its lateral attachments to the tunica vaginalis oculi had not been cut; at the same time the internal rectus applied itself to the sclerotica, very near the margin of the cornea. To maintain this extreme inversion the thread was carried across the bridge of the nose, which was protected by a compress, and fastened by isinglass plaster upon the opposite cheek. The thread, in passing out of the eyelids, pressed upon the border of the upper lid, and to correct this, another thread was attached to the middle of the first, like a guy, to pull it down, and fastened by plaster upon the right cheek. The eyelids could be'shut completely, and the thread was held tense. April 20th.—Patient was kept in bed for ten days, and the thread kept in situ forty-two hours. But little inflammation ensued; lids moderately swollen; external cccliymosia very extensive; general injection of the sclerotic ; no chc- mosis, no pain. Convergence is decided ; a fold of conjunctiva projects at inner canthus. Has double vision. May 12th.—The redness of eye almost gone; has made use only of cold lotions. The tendon of the extcmai rectus to which the thread was fastened, and the sclerotic into which the tendon was inserted, have sloughed. There is deep venous congestion at this spot. The cornea entirely transparent. Patient no