REPORT ON SUnOERY. 266 4th Decemher—third presentation of the patient.—She looks much better, and has gained both in colour and tone, a proof that the treat- ment, whicli has no directly strengthening property, is exercising a beneficial iuilueuce on the morbid condition. The abducens is still completely paralysed, for wlien the right eye is closed, tlie left cannot be rotated over the middle line ; the contraction of the internus has somewhat diminished, as is proved by the less amount of deviation—by about a line—when she looks directly forwards, and by the increased power she now possesses of moving the eye outwards towards the middle line. The statement of the patient, tliat she has seen considerably better for some days, has just been accurately tested. Patients often make such egregious errors that it is always necessary to submit their accounts to trial, before any deduction can be drawn. In this case the examination has proved a satisfactory improvement, though it has shown that the visual field of each eye still remains in the same defective con- dition; it has demonstrated that the acuteness of the right, which was formerly the worse eye, is ten times better, and that of the left, now the weaker eye, is four times greater. She now deciphers Snellen's letters No. xii with + J^, by the right eye to 4', by the left with + to ; No. i, right eye with + | to 4" ; left eye. No. ii with + to 5"; and recognises with both eyes the letter C at a distance of more than 30'. The ophthalmoscope shows that the retinal veins are less swollen and serpentine; it also proves that white discoloration of the papilla and atrophy of the arteries, so ominous as signs of commencing atrophy, are not in progress. Such a course is certainly very cheering in respect to the further treatment, but it will require a longer period before the final result is decided. Dr. Zehender appends to this lecture a note, in which he states that, according to a letter of the 26th December, 1862, from Prof von Grafe, the patient had continued to improve, both in her general condition, and in her power of vision; the paralysi^ of the abducens had disappeared, but the visual field remained in the same state. Retinitis leuccemica.—Dr. Liebreich has figured in his atlas an example of this disease. He remarks that it is characterised by the pale hue of all the retinal and choroidal vessels, and especially of the retinal veins. The latter are large and tortuous, the papilla is very pale, and the retina around it is clouded; there are little irregular spots in the region of the macula lutea. Finally, there are numerous brilliantly white, round spots, which only differ by their very peripheral position from those occurring in Bright's disease. The author considers that this affection depends on the general condition just as much as the retinitis accompanying syphilis and albuminuria. In his opinion, idiopathic retinitis, or, in general, idiopathic diseases of the retina, are extremely uncommon. "Whilst idiopathic affections of the choroid are far more frequent than those caused by syphilis or other constitutional diseases, lesions of the retina are the result either of diseases of the choroid, injuries, &c., or of irregularities in the general circulation of the body, of disease of the heart and kidneys, of syphilis, &c.; such is, at least, almost always the case when the affection of the retina is sym- metrically spread over a large portion of the fundus. iTie author has